Note I have closed contractions , e . 
was n't has become wasn't I have also made the following changes to the text PAGE LINE ORIGINAL CHANGED TO accordeon accordion work But work . 
But chere chere Bravo ! Bravo ! tumultously tumultuously be , be , THE GOODNESS OF ST . 
ROCQUE AND OTHER STORIES By ALICE DUNBAR To My best Comrade My Husband CONTENTS THE GOODNESS OF SAINT ROCQUE TONY'S WIFE THE FISHERMAN OF PASS CHRISTIAN M'SIEU FORTIER'S VIOLIN BY THE BAYOU ST . 
JOHN WHEN THE BAYOU OVERFLOWS MR . 
She walked with the easy spring that comes from a perfectly arched foot . 
To day she swept swiftly down Marais Street , casting a quick glance here and there from under her heavy veil as if she feared she was being followed . 
Now , a picnic at Milneburg is a thing to be remembered for ever . 
At this particular picnic , however , there had been bitterness of spirit . 
Theophile was Manuela's own especial property , and Theophile had proven false . 
He had not danced a single waltz or quadrille with Manuela , but had deserted her for Claralie , blonde and petite . 
Not that Manuela lacked partners or admirers . 
Dear no ! she was too graceful and beautiful for that . 
There had been more than enough for her . 
But Manuela loved Theophile , you see , and no one could take his place . 
This morning she showed the traces of a sleepless night and an aching heart as she walked down Marais Street . 
Two blocks to the river and one below she repeated to herself breathlessly . 
Then she stood on the corner gazing about her , until with a final summoning of a desperate courage she dived through a small wicket gate into a garden of weed choked flowers . 
There was a hoarse , rusty little bell on the gate that gave querulous tongue as she pushed it open . 
The house that sat back in the yard was little and old and weather beaten . 
Its one story frame had once been painted , but that was a memory remote and traditional . 
A straggling morning glory strove to conceal its time ravaged face . 
The little walk of broken bits of brick was reddened carefully , and the one little step was scrupulously yellow washed , which denoted that the occupants were cleanly as well as religious . 
Manuela's timid knock was answered by a harsh Entrez . 
It was a small sombre room within , with a bare yellow washed floor and ragged curtains at the little window . 
In a corner was a diminutive altar draped with threadbare lace . 
The red glow of the taper lighted a cheap print of St . 
Joseph and a brazen crucifix . 
Manuela paused , her eyes blinking at the semi obscurity within . 
The Wizened One called in croaking tones An' fo' w'y you come here ? Assiez la , ma'amzelle . 
Timidly Manuela sat at the table facing the owner of the voice . 
I want , she began faintly but the Mistress of the Cards understood she had had much experience . 
The cards were shuffled in her long grimy talons and stacked before Manuela . 
I give you one lil' charm , yaas , said the Wizened One when the seance was over , and Manuela , all white and nervous , leaned back in the rickety chair . 
I give you one lil' charm fo' to ween him back , yaas . 
You wear h'it 'roun' you' wais' , an' he come back . 
Den you mek prayer at St . 
Den you come back an' tell me , yaas . 
Good luck go wid you . 
Readjusting her veil , Manuela passed out the little wicket gate , treading on air . 
Again the sun shone , and the breath of the swamps came as healthful sea breeze unto her nostrils . 
She fairly flew in the direction of St . 
She said her prayer and lighting her candle placed it with the others . 
Mon Dieu ! how brightly the sun seemed to shine now , she thought , pausing at the door on her way out . 
Her small finger tips , still bedewed with holy water , rested caressingly on a gamin's head . 
The ivy which enfolds the quaint chapel never seemed so green the shrines which serve as the Way of the Cross never seemed so artistic the baby graves , even , seemed cheerful . 
He had been spending his Sundays with Claralie . 
His stay was short and he was plainly bored . 
But Manuela knelt to thank the good St . 
Rocque that night , and fondled the charm about her slim waist . 
Claralie tossed her head as she crossed herself with holy water , and the pink in her cheeks was brighter than usual . 
Manuela smiled a bright good morning when she met Claralie in St . 
The little blonde blushed furiously , and Manuela rushed post haste to the Wizened One to confer upon this new issue . 
H'it ees good , said the dame , shaking her turbaned head . 
She ees 'fraid , she will work , mais you' charm , h'it weel beat her . 
And Manuela departed with radiant eyes . 
Theophile was not at Mass Sunday morning , and murderous glances flashed from Claralie to Manuela before the tinkling of the Host Bell . 
Nor did Theophile call at either house . 
Two hearts beat furiously at the sound of every passing footstep , and two minds wondered if the other were enjoying the beloved one's smiles . 
Two pair of eyes , however , blue and black , smiled on others , and their owners laughed and seemed none the less happy . 
For your Creole girls are proud , and would die rather than let the world see their sorrows . 
I did not ask you where you were yesterday , replied the girl , saucily . 
Theophile shrugged his shoulders and changed the conversation . 
The next week there was a birthday fete in honour of Louise , Theophile's young sister . 
Everyone was bidden , and no one thought of refusing , for Louise was young , and this would be her first party . 
So , though the night was hot , the dancing went on as merrily as light young feet could make it go . 
Claralie fluffed her dainty white skirts , and cast mischievous sparkles in the direction of Theophile , who with the maman and Louise was bravely trying not to look self conscious . 
Manuela , tall and calm and proud looking , in a cool , pale yellow gown was apparently enjoying herself without paying the slightest attention to her young host . 
Have I the pleasure of this dance ? he asked her finally , in a lull of the music . 
It must have been an engrossing tete a tete , for the call to supper had sounded twice before they heard and hurried into the house . 
The march had formed with Louise radiantly leading on the arm of papa . 
Claralie tripped by with Leon . 
Of course , nothing remained for Theophile and Manuela to do but to bring up the rear , for which they received much good natured chaffing . 
Now you know , when a Creole young man places a girl at his mother's right hand at his own table , there is but one conclusion to be deduced therefrom . 
If you had asked Manuela , after the wedding was over , how it happened , she would have said nothing , but looked wise . 
If you had asked Claralie , she would have laughed and said she always preferred Leon . 
If you had asked Theophile , he would have wondered that you thought he had ever meant more than to tease Manuela . 
If you had asked the Wizened One , she would have offered you a charm . 
TONY'S WIFE Gimme fi' cents worth o' candy , please . 
Tony's wife resumed her knitting with a stifled sigh until the next customer should come . 
A low growl caused her to look up apprehensively . 
Tony himself stood beetle browed and huge in the small doorway . 
Get up from there , he muttered , and open two dozen oysters right away the Eliots want 'em . 
It was long since he had seen Italy . 
She moved meekly behind the counter , and began work on the thick shells . 
Tony stretched his long neck up the street . 
Mr. Tony , mama wants some charcoal . 
The crackling of shells went on behind , and a stifled sob arose as a bit of sharp edge cut into the thin , worn fingers that clasped the knife . 
Hurry up there , will you ? growled the black brows the Eliots are sending for the oysters . 
She deftly strained and counted them , and , after wiping her fingers , resumed her seat , and took up the endless crochet work , with her usual stifled sigh . 
Tony and his wife had always been in this same little queer old shop on Prytania Street , at least to the memory of the oldest inhabitant in the neighbourhood . 
When or how they came , or how they stayed , no one knew it was enough that they were there , like a sort of ancestral fixture to the street . 
The neighbourhood was fine enough to look down upon these two tumble down shops at the corner , kept by Tony and Mrs. Murphy , the grocer . 
It was a semi fashionable locality , far up town , away from the old time French quarter . 
Such was this locality , and you must admit that it was indeed a condescension to tolerate Tony and Mrs. Murphy . 
You instinctively thought of wild mountain passes , and the gleaming dirks of bandit contadini in looking at him . 
What his last name was , no one knew . 
Someone had maintained once that he had been christened Antonio Malatesta , but that was unauthentic , and as little to be believed as that other wild theory that her name was Mary . 
She was meek , pale , little , ugly , and German . 
Altogether part of his arms and legs would have very decently made another larger than she . 
No matter what the weather or what her other toilet , she always wore a thin little shawl of dingy brick dust hue about her shoulders . 
The ladies in larger houses , whose husbands would be millionaires some day , bought her lace , and gave it to their servants for Christmas presents . 
He hated her in a lusty , roaring fashion , as a healthy beefy boy hates a sick cat and torments it to madness . 
When she displeased him , he beat her , and knocked her frail form on the floor . 
The children could tell when this had happened . 
Her eyes would be red , and there would be blue marks on her face and neck . 
Poor Mrs. Tony , they would say , and nestle close to her . 
Tony did not roar at her for petting them , perhaps , because they spent money on the multi hued candy in glass jars on the shelves . 
Her mother appeared upon the scene once , and stayed a short time but Tony got drunk one day and beat her because she ate too much , and she disappeared soon after . 
Whence she came and where she departed , no one could tell , not even Mrs. Murphy , the Pauline Pry and Gazette of the block . 
In proportion as his gout increased and he bawled from pure physical discomfort , she became light hearted , and moved about the shop with real , brisk cheeriness . 
He could not hit her then without such pain that after one or two trials he gave up in disgust . 
So the dull years had passed , and life had gone on pretty much the same for Tony and the German wife and the shop . 
The children came on Sunday evenings to buy the stick candy , and on week days for coal and wood . 
The servants came to buy oysters for the larger houses , and to gossip over the counter about their employers . 
Some of the children grew up and moved away , and other little girls came to buy candy and eat pink lagniappe fishes , and the shop still thrived . 
One day Tony was ill , more than the mummied foot of gout , or the wheeze of asthma he must keep his bed and send for the doctor . 
She clutched his arm when he came , and pulled him into the tiny room . 
Is it is it anything much , doctor ? she gasped . 
AEsculapius shook his head as wisely as the occasion would permit . 
She followed him out of the room into the shop . 
Empty as a shell , madam , empty as a shell . 
He cannot live , for he has nothing to live on . 
Then John came , introducing himself , serpent wise , into the Eden of her bosom . 
John was Tony's brother , huge and bluff too , but fair and blond , with the beauty of Northern Italy . 
He turned up now , having heard of this illness , and assumed an air of remarkable authority at once . 
A hunted look stole into the dull eyes , and after John had departed with blustering directions as to Tony's welfare , she crept to his bedside timidly . 
Tony , she said , Tony , you are very sick . 
An inarticulate growl was the only response . 
Tony , you ought to see the priest you mustn't go any longer without taking the sacrament . 
The growl deepened into words . 
Don't want any priest you 're always after some snivelling old woman's fuss . 
You and Mrs. Murphy go on with your church it won't make YOU any better . 
She shivered under this parting shot , and crept back into the shop . 
Still the priest came next day . 
She followed him in to the bedside and knelt timidly . 
Tony , she whispered , here's Father Leblanc . 
Tony was too languid to curse out loud he only expressed his hate in a toss of the black beard and shaggy mane . 
Please , Tony , here's the priest . 
But the Titan roared aloud No get out . 
Think I'm a going to give you a chance to grab my money now ? Let me die and go to hell in peace . 
Father Leblanc knelt meekly and prayed , and the woman's weak pleadings continued , Tony , I've been true and good and faithful to you . 
Don't die and leave me no better than before . 
Tony , I do want to be a good woman once , a real for true married woman . 
Tony , here's the priest say yes . 
And she wrung her ringless hands . 
You want my money , said Tony , slowly , and you sha'n't have it , not a cent John shall have it . 
Father Leblanc shrank away like a fading spectre . 
Tony , she wailed on the last day , her voice rising to a shriek in its eagerness , tell them I'm your wife it'll be the same . 
They buried him with many honours by the Society of Italia's Sons . 
John took possession of the shop when they returned home , and found the money hidden in the chimney corner . 
THE FISHERMAN OF PASS CHRISTIAN The swift breezes on the beach at Pass Christian meet and conflict as though each strove for the mastery of the air . 
The land breeze blows down through the pines , resinous , fragrant , cold , bringing breath like memories of dim , dark woods shaded by myriad pine needles . 
The breeze from the Gulf is warm and soft and languorous , blowing up from the south with its suggestion of tropical warmth and passion . 
It is strong and masterful , and tossed Annette's hair and whipped her skirts about her in bold disregard for the proprieties . 
Arm in arm with Philip , she was strolling slowly down the great pier which extends from the Mexican Gulf Hotel into the waters of the Sound . 
Annette and Philip paused midway the pier to watch two fishermen casting their nets . 
With heads bared to the breeze , they stood in clear silhouette against the white background of sea . 
See how he uses his teeth , almost whispered Annette . 
There was a swishing rush through the air , and it settled with a sort of sob as it cut the waters and struck a million sparkles of fire from the waves . 
Philip laughingly picked up a soft , gleaming jelly fish , and threatened to put it on Annette's neck . 
She screamed , ran , slipped on the wet boards , and in another instant would have fallen over into the water below . 
The tall fisherman caught her in his arms and set her on her feet . 
Mademoiselle must be very careful , he said in the softest and most correct French . 
The tide is in and the water very rough . 
It would be very difficult to swim out there to night . 
Annette murmured confused thanks , which were supplemented by Philip's hearty tones . 
She was silent until they reached the pavilion at the end of the pier . 
The semi darkness was unrelieved by lantern or light . 
The strong wind wafted the strains from a couple of mandolins , a guitar , and a tenor voice stationed in one corner to sundry engrossed couples in sundry other corners . 
Philip found an untenanted nook and they ensconced themselves therein . 
Do you know there's something mysterious about that fisherman ? said Annette , during a lull in the wind . 
Because he did not let you go over ? inquired Philip . 
No he spoke correctly , and with the accent that goes only with an excellent education . 
If you stay about Pass Christian for any length of time , you'll find more things than perfect French and courtly grace among fishermen to surprise you . 
These are a wonderful people who live across the Lake . 
Annette was lolling in the hammock under the big catalpa tree some days later , when the gate opened , and Natalie's big sun bonnet appeared . 
Natalie herself was discovered blushing in its dainty depths . 
She was only a little Creole seaside girl , you must know , and very shy of the city demoiselles . 
Natalie's patois was quite as different from Annette's French as it was from the postmaster's English . 
Mees Annette , she began , peony hued all over at her own boldness , we will have one lil' hay ride this night , and a fish fry at the end . 
Will you come ? Annette sprang to her feet in delight . 
Will I come ? Certainly . 
How delightful ! You are so good to ask me . 
What shall what time But Natalie's pink bonnet had fled precipitately down the shaded walk . 
Annette laughed joyously as Philip lounged down the gallery . 
I frightened the child away , she told him . 
Then it isn't enjoyable at all . 
But when the natives , the boys and girls who live there , make up their minds to have fun , you may depend upon its being just the best kind . 
This time there were twenty boys and girls , a mamma or so , several papas , and a grizzled fisherman to restrain the ardor of the amateurs . 
The cart was vast and solid , and two comfortable , sleepy looking mules constituted the drawing power . 
There were also tin horns , some guitars , an accordion , and a quartet of much praised voices . 
The hay in the bottom of the wagon was freely mixed with pine needles , whose prickiness through your hose was amply compensated for by its delicious fragrance . 
After a triumphantly noisy passage down the beach one comes to the stretch of heavy sand that lies between Pass Christian proper and Henderson's Point . 
This is a hard pull for the mules , and the more ambitious riders get out and walk . 
Then , after a final strain through the shifting sands , bravo ! the shell road is reached , and one goes cheering through the pine trees to Henderson's Point . 
If ever you go to Pass Christian , you must have a fish fry at Henderson's Point . 
Here is the beginning of the great three mile trestle bridge to the town of Bay St . 
Louis , and to night from the beach could be seen the lights of the villas glittering across the Bay like myriads of unsleeping eyes . 
Here upon a firm stretch of white sand camped the merry makers . 
Soon a great fire of driftwood and pine cones tossed its flames defiantly at a radiant moon in the sky , and the fishers were casting their nets in the sea . 
The more daring of the girls waded bare legged in the water , holding pine torches , spearing flounders and peering for soft shell crabs . 
Annette had wandered farther in the shallow water than the rest . 
Suddenly she stumbled against a stone , the torch dropped and spluttered at her feet . 
With a little helpless cry she looked at the stretch of unfamiliar beach and water to find herself all alone . 
I was looking for soft shells , she explained , and lost the crowd , and now my torch is out . 
You have wandered a half mile away , he mused , and have nothing to show for your pains but very wet skirts . 
If mademoiselle will permit me , I will take her to her friends , but allow me to suggest that mademoiselle will leave the water and walk on the sands . 
But I am barefoot , wailed Annette , and I am afraid of the fiddlers . 
Fiddler crabs , you know , aren't pleasant things to be dangling around one's bare feet , and they are more numerous than sand fleas down at Henderson's Point . 
True , assented the fisherman then we shall have to wade back . 
The fisherman was not to be tempted by appeals to stay , but smilingly disappeared down the sands , the red glare of his torch making a glowing track in the water . 
Ah , Mees Annette , whispered Natalie , between mouthfuls of a rich croaker , you have found a beau in the water . 
And the fisherman of the Pass , too , laughed her cousin Ida . 
Annette tossed her head , for Philip had growled audibly . 
Yes , and it's the quaintest , most delightful spot imaginable . 
Philip , do come with me and see it . 
Oh , Philip , you are so lazy do come with me . 
Yes , but , my dear Annette , protested Philip , this is a warm day , and I am tired . 
Still , his curiosity being aroused , he went grumbling . 
It was not a very long drive , back from the beach across the railroad and through the pine forest to the bank of a dark , slow flowing bayou . 
The fisherman's hut was small , two roomed , whitewashed , pine boarded , with the traditional mud chimney acting as a sort of support to one of its uneven sides . 
Within was a weird assortment of curios from every uncivilized part of the globe . 
Also were there fishing tackle and guns in reckless profusion . 
The fisherman , in the kitchen of the mud chimney , was sardonically waging war with a basket of little bayou crabs . 
Entrez , mademoiselle et monsieur , he said pleasantly , grabbing a vicious crab by its flippers , and smiling at its wild attempts to bite . 
You see I am busy , but make yourself at home . 
Well , how on earth began Philip . 
I was driving out in the woods this morning , and stumbled on the hut . 
He asked me in , but I came right over after you . 
The fisherman , having succeeded in getting the last crab in the kettle of boiling water , came forward smiling and began to explain the curios . 
Then you have not always lived at Pass Christian , said Philip . 
Mais non , monsieur , I am spending a summer here . 
And he spends his winters , doubtless , selling fish in the French market , spitefully soliloquised Philip . 
The fisherman was looking unutterable things into Annette's eyes , and , it seemed to Philip , taking an unconscionably long time explaining the use of an East Indian stiletto . 
Oh , wouldn't it be delightful ! came from Annette at last . 
Why , Monsieur LeConte says he'll take six of us out in his catboat tomorrow for a fishing trip on the Gulf . 
And I'll get Natalie and her cousins . 
Yes , still more drily . 
Annette chattered on , entirely oblivious of the strainedness of the men's adieux , and still chattered as they drove through the pines . 
I did not know that you were going to take fishermen and marchands into the bosom of your social set when you came here , growled Philip , at last . 
But , Cousin Phil , can't you see he is a gentleman ? The fact that he makes no excuses or protestations is a proof . 
You are a fool , was the polite response . 
Natalie's pink bonnet blushed in the early sunshine , and Natalie's mamma , comely and portly , did chaperonage duty . 
It was not long before the sails gave swell into the breeze and the little boat scurried to the Sound . 
Past the lighthouse on its gawky iron stalls , she flew , and now rounded the white sands of Cat Island . 
Bravo , the Gulf ! sang a voice on the lookout . 
The little boat dipped , halted an instant , then rushed fast into the blue Gulf waters . 
We will anchor here , said the host , have luncheon , and fish . 
Philip could not exactly understand why the fisherman should sit so close to Annette and whisper so much into her ears . 
Annette had distinguished herself by catching one small shark , and had immediately ceased to fish and devoted her attention to her fisherman and his line . 
Philip had angled fiercely , landing trout , croakers , sheepshead , snappers in bewildering luck . 
He had broken each hopeless captive's neck savagely , as though they were personal enemies . 
He did not look happy as they landed , though paeans of praise were being sung in his honour . 
As the days passed on , the fisherman of the Pass began to dance attendance on Annette . 
What had seemed a joke became serious . 
Aunt Nina , urged by Philip , remonstrated , and even the mamma of the pink sunbonnet began to look grave . 
But when the demoiselle forgot the gulf and the fisherman refused to recognise it , why , it was time to take matters in hand . 
To all of Aunt Nina's remonstrances , Philip's growlings , and the averted glances of her companions , Annette was deaf . 
You are narrow minded , she said laughingly . 
I am interested in Monsieur LeConte simply as a study . 
He is entertaining he talks well of his travels , and as for refusing to recognise the difference between us , why , he never dreamed of such a thing . 
Suddenly a peremptory summons home from Annette's father put an end to the fears of Philip . 
Annette pouted , but papa must be obeyed . 
She blamed Philip and Aunt Nina for telling tales , but Aunt Nina was uncommunicative , and Philip too obviously cheerful to derive much satisfaction from . 
That night she walked with the fisherman hand in hand on the sands . 
The wind from the pines bore the scarcely recognisable , subtle freshness of early autumn , and the waters had a hint of dying summer in their sob on the beach . 
You will remember , said the fisherman , that I have told you nothing about myself . 
And you will keep your promises to me ? Yes . 
Let me hear you repeat them again . 
I promise you that I will not forget you . 
I promise you that I will never speak of you to anyone until I see you again . 
I promise that I will then clasp your hand wherever you may be . 
And mademoiselle will not be discouraged , but will continue her studies ? Yes . 
Annette went to bed with glowing cheeks , and a heart whose pulsations would have caused a physician to prescribe unlimited digitalis . 
It was still hot in New Orleans when she returned home , and it seemed hard to go immediately to work . 
Though the fisherman had showed no cause why he should be accepted as a musical critic , Annette had somehow respected his judgment and been accordingly elated . 
It was the night of the opening of the opera . 
There was the usual crush , the glitter and confusing radiance of the brilliant audience . 
Annette , with papa , Aunt Nina , and Philip , was late reaching her box . 
The curtain was up , and La Juive was pouring forth defiance at her angry persecutors . 
In fancy , she too was ringing her voice out to an applauding house . 
Her head unconsciously beat time to the music , and one hand half held her cloak from her bare shoulders . 
Then Eleazar appeared , and the house rose at the end of his song . 
Encores it gave , and bravos and cheers . 
He bowed calmly , swept his eyes over the tiers until they found Annette , where they rested in a half smile of recognition . 
Philip , gasped Annette , nervously raising her glasses , my fisherman ! Yes , an opera singer is better than a marchand , drawled Philip . 
The curtain fell on the first act . 
The house was won by the new tenor it called and recalled him before the curtain . 
Clearly he had sung his way into the hearts of his audience at once . 
Papa , Aunt Nina , said Annette , you must come behind the scenes with me . 
I want you to meet him . 
Philip was bending ostentatiously over the girl in the next box . 
Papa and Aunt Nina consented to be dragged behind the scenes . 
Annette was well known , for , in hopes of some day being an occupant of one of the dressing rooms , she had made friends with everyone connected with the opera . 
Eleazar received them , still wearing his brown garb and patriarchal beard . 
How you deceived me ! she laughed , when the greetings and introductions were over . 
I came to America early , he smiled back at her , and thought I'd try a little incognito at the Pass . 
I was not well , you see . 
It has been of great benefit to me . 
I kept my promise , she said in a lower tone . 
Thank you that also has helped me . 
Annette's teacher began to note a wonderful improvement in his pupil's voice . 
Never did a girl study so hard or practise so faithfully . 
As for Monsieur LeConte , he was the idol of New Orleans . 
Seldom had there been a tenor who had sung himself so completely into the very hearts of a populace . 
When he was billed , the opera displayed Standing Room signs , no matter what the other attractions in the city might be . 
Sometimes Monsieur LeConte delighted small audiences in Annette's parlour , when the hostess was in a perfect flutter of happiness . 
Not often , you know , for the leading tenor was in great demand at the homes of society queens . 
Do you know , said Annette , petulantly , one evening , I wish for the old days at Pass Christian . 
So do I , he answered tenderly will you repeat them with me next summer ? If I only could ! she gasped . 
She caressed him as Mignon , pleaded with him as Michaela , died for him in Les Huguenots , broke her heart for love of him in La Favorite . 
How could he help but love her , Annette asked herself , how could he ? Madame Dubeau was beautiful and gifted and charming . 
Once she whispered her fears to him when there was the meagrest bit of an opportunity . 
You don't understand , little one , he said tenderly the relations of professional people to each other are peculiar . 
After you go to Paris , you will know . 
Still , New Orleans had built up its romance , and gossiped accordingly . 
Have you heard the news ? whispered Lola to Annette , leaning from her box at the opera one night . 
The curtain had just gone up on Herodias , and for some reason or other , the audience applauded with more warmth than usual . 
There was a noticeable number of good humoured , benignant smiles on the faces of the applauders . 
No , answered Annette , breathlessly , no , indeed , Lola I am going to Paris next week . 
I am so delighted I can't stop to think . 
Yes , that is excellent , said Lola , but all New Orleans is smiling at the romance . 
Monsieur LeConte and Madame Dubeau were quietly married last night , but it leaked out this afternoon . 
See all the applause she's receiving ! Annette leaned back in her chair , very white and still . 
Darkness now , and silence , and a great haunted hush over all , save for the distant cheery voice of a stage hand humming a bar of the opera . 
The glimmer of gas makes a halo about the bowed white head of a little old man putting his violin carefully away in its case with aged , trembling , nervous fingers . 
Old M'sieu Fortier was the last one out every night . 
Outside the air was murky , foggy . 
Gas and electricity were but faint splotches of light on the thick curtain of fog and mist . 
It had been a crowded night . 
M'sieu Fortier stood at the corner , blinking at the beautiful ladies in their carriages . 
Then , when M'sieu Fortier was at home , why , it was practice , practice all the day , and smoke , snore , sleep at night . 
Altogether it was not very exhilarating . 
M'sieu Fortier had played first violin in the orchestra ever since well , no one remembered his not playing there . 
Sometimes there would come breaks in the seasons , and for a year the great building would be dark and silent . 
But now for seven years there had been no break in the season , and the little old violinist was happy . 
There is nothing sweeter than a regular job and good music to play , music into which one can put some soul , some expression , and which one must study to understand . 
Dance music , of the frivolous , frothy kind deemed essential to soirees , is trivial , easy , uninteresting . 
So M'sieu Fortier , Ma'am Jeanne , and the white cat lived a peaceful , uneventful existence out on Bayou Road . 
When the opera season was over in February , M'sieu went back to cigar making , and the white cat purred none the less contentedly . 
It had been a benefit to night for the leading tenor , and he had chosen Roland a Ronceveaux , a favourite this season , for his farewell . 
I I beg your pardon , messieurs , he stammered . 
Ma foi , but monsieur must know fo' sho' , dat I am too old for love songs ! I know nothing save that I want that violin of yours . 
Picked him up in my French town rambles . 
I've been trying to buy that instrument since To throw it aside a week later ? lazily inquired Martel . 
It was not long after this that the opera closed , and M'sieu went back to his old out of season job . 
But somehow he did not do as well this spring and summer as always . 
You' pere git h'old , an' hees han's dey go no mo' rapidement , an' dere be no mo' soirees dese day . 
Minesse , eef la saison don' hurry up , we shall eat ver' lil' meat . 
And Minesse curled her tail and purred . 
Before the summer had fairly begun , strange rumours began to float about in musical circles . 
M. Mauge would no longer manage the opera , but it would be turned into the hands of Americans , a syndicate . 
Bah ! These English speaking people could do nothing unless there was a trust , a syndicate , a company immense and dishonest . 
It was going to be a guarantee business , with a strictly financial basis . 
But worse than all this , the new manager , who was now in France , would not only procure the artists , but a new orchestra , a new leader . 
M'sieu Fortier grew apprehensive at this , for he knew what the loss of his place would mean to him . 
September and October came , and the papers were filled with accounts of the new artists from France and of the new orchestra leader too . 
He was described as a most talented , progressive , energetic young man . 
M'sieu Fortier's heart sank at the word progressive . 
He was anything but that . 
The New Orleans Creole blood flowed too sluggishly in his old veins . 
November came the opera reopened . 
M'sieu Fortier was not re engaged . 
Minesse , he said with a catch in his voice that strongly resembled a sob , Minesse , we mus' go hongry sometime . 
Ah , mon pauvre violon ! Ah , mon Dieu , dey put us h'out , an' dey will not have us . 
Nev' min' , we will sing anyhow . 
And drawing his bow across the strings , he sang in his thin , quavering voice , Salut demeure , chaste et pure . 
It is strange what a peculiar power of fascination former haunts have for the human mind . 
M'sieu Fortier was no exception . 
Then he would go home , and pat Minesse , and fondle the violin . 
Ah , Minesse , dose new player ! Not one bit can dey play . 
Such tones , Minesse , such tones ! All the time portemento , oh , so ver' bad ! Ah , mon chere violon , we can play . 
And he would play and sing a romance , and smile tenderly to himself . 
At first it used to be into the deuxiemes that M'sieu Fortier went , into the front seats . 
But soon they were too expensive , and after all , one could hear just as well in the fourth row as in the first . 
It makes no difference to be one row higher . 
It was more to the liking , after all . 
One felt more at home up here among the people . 
If one was thirsty , one could drink a glass of wine or beer being passed about by the libretto boys , and the music sounded just as well . 
But it happened one night that M'sieu could not even afford to climb the Toulouse Street stairs . 
To be sure , there was yet another gallery , the quatriemes , where the peanut boys went for a dime , but M'sieu could not get down to that yet . 
So he stayed outside until all the beautiful women in their warm wraps , a bright hued chattering throng , came down the grand staircase to their carriages . 
It was on one of these nights that Courcey and Martel found him shivering at the corner . 
Hello , M'sieu Fortier , cried Courcey , are you ready to let me have that violin yet ? For shame ! interrupted Martel . 
Fifty dollars , you know , continued Courcey , taking no heed of his friend's interpolation . 
M'sieu Fortier made a courtly bow . 
They walked softly up the short red brick walk and tapped at the door . 
Within , M'sieu Fortier was caressing the violin , with silent tears streaming down his wrinkled gray face . 
There was not much said on either side . 
Courcey came away with the instrument , leaving the money behind , while Martel grumbled at the essentially sordid , mercenary spirit of the world . 
About six days later , Courcey's morning dreams were disturbed by the announcement of a visitor . 
Hastily doing a toilet , he descended the stairs to find M'sieu Fortier nervously pacing the hall floor . 
I come fo' bring back you' money , yaas . 
I try fo' to use dat money , but eet burn an' sting lak blood money . 
I feel lak' I done sol' my child . 
I cannot go at l'opera no mo' , I t'ink of mon violon . 
I starve befo' I live widout . 
My heart , he is broke , I die for mon violon . 
Courcey left the room and returned with the instrument . 
M'sieu Fortier , he said , bowing low , as he handed the case to the little man , take your violin it was a whim with me , a passion with you . 
And as for the money , why , keep that too it was worth a hundred dollars to have possessed such an instrument even for six days . 
John slowly makes its dark hued way through reeds and rushes , high banks and flat slopes , until it casts itself into the turbulent bosom of Lake Pontchartrain . 
It is dark , like the passionate women of Egypt placid , like their broad brows deep , silent , like their souls . 
Within its bosom are hidden romances and stories , such as were sung by minstrels of old . 
From the source to the mouth is not far distant , visibly speaking , but in the life of the bayou a hundred heart miles could scarce measure it . 
Just where it winds about the northwest of the city are some of its most beautiful bits , orange groves on one side , and quaint old Spanish gardens on the other . 
To its banks at the end of Moss Street , one day there came a man and a maiden . 
They were both tall and lithe and slender , with the agility of youth and fire . 
Truly , a fitting couple to seek the bayou banks . 
He sat down and took her into his arms , and in the eerie murmur of the storm coming they talked of the future . 
And then I hope to go to Italy or France . 
It is only there , beneath those far Southern skies , that I could ever hope to attain to anything that the soul within me says I can . 
I have wasted so much time in the mere struggle for bread , while the powers of a higher calling have clamoured for recognition and expression . 
I will go some day and redeem myself . 
Try to forget me and go your way . 
I am only the epitome of unhappiness and ill success . 
But she laughed and would have none of it . 
Their angling was rewarded only by a little black water moccasin that wriggled and forked its venomous red tongue in an attempt to exercise its death dealing prerogative . 
This Athanasia insisted must go back into its native black waters , and paid the price the boys asked that it might enjoy its freedom . 
Just then a wee girl appeared , clad in a multi hued garment , evidently a sister to the small fishermen . 
Let us go , she said the eternal feminine has spoiled it all . 
The bayou flows as calmly , as darkly , as full of hidden passions as ever . 
On a night years after , the moon was shining upon it with a silvery tenderness that seemed brighter , more caressingly lingering than anywhere within the old city . 
Behind , there rose the spires and towers before , only the reeds , green now , and soft in their rustlings and whisperings for the future . 
False reeds ! They tell themselves of their happiness to be , and it all ends in dry stalks and drizzling skies . 
It was the eternal feminine that spoiled our dream that day as it spoiled the after life , was it not ? But the Bayou St . 
It merely gathered into its silent bosom another broken hearted romance , and flowed dispassionately on its way . 
Ma'am Mouton paused at her gate and cast a contemplative look at the red sky . 
Hit will rain to morrow , sho' . 
I mus' git in my t'ings . 
Ma'am Mouton's remark must have been addressed to herself or to the lean dog , for no one else was visible . 
Louisette's eyes danced , and her lips were red and tempting . 
Ma'am Mouton's face relaxed as the small brown hands relieved hers of their burden . 
Sylves' , has he come yet ? asked the red mouth . 
Mais non , ma chere , said Ma'am Mouton , sadly , I can' tell fo' w'y he no come home soon dese day . 
Ah me , I feel lak' somet'ing goin' happen . 
Even as she spoke a quick nervous step was heard crunching up the brick walk . 
Sylves' paused an instant without the kitchen door , his face turned to the setting sun . 
He was tall and slim and agile a true 'cajan . 
Bon jour , Louisette , he laughed . 
Eh , maman ! Ah , my son , you are ver' late . 
Sylves' frowned , but said nothing . 
It was a silent supper that followed . 
Louisette was sad , Ma'am Mouton sighed now and then , Sylves' was constrained . 
Maman , he said at length , I am goin' away . 
Ma'am Mouton dropped her fork and stared at him with unseeing eyes then , as she comprehended his remark , she put her hand out to him with a pitiful gesture . 
Sylves' ! cried Louisette , springing to her feet . 
Maman , don't , don't ! he said weakly then gathering strength from the silence , he burst forth Yaas , I 'm goin' away to work . 
I 'm tired of dis , jus' dig , dig , work in de fiel' , nothin' to see but de cloud , de tree , de bayou . 
I don't lak' New Orleans it too near here , dere no mo' money dere . 
I go up fo' Mardi Gras , an' de same people , de same strit' . 
I'm goin' to Chicago ! Sylves' ! screamed both women at once . 
Chicago ! That vast , far off city that seemed in another world . 
Chicago ! A name to conjure with for wickedness . 
W'y , yaas , continued Sylves' , lots of boys I know dere . 
Henri an' Joseph Lascaud an' Arthur , dey write me what money dey mek' in cigar . 
I can mek' a livin' too . 
I can mek' fine cigar . 
See how I do in New Orleans in de winter . 
Oh , Sylves' , wailed Louisette , den you'll forget me ! Non , non , ma chere , he answered tenderly . 
I will come back when the bayou overflows again , an' maman an' Louisette will have fine present . 
Ma'am Mouton had bowed her head on her hands , and was rocking to and fro in an agony of dry eyed misery . 
Sylves' went to her side and knelt . 
Maman , he said softly , maman , you mus' not cry . 
All de boys go 'way , an' I will come back reech , an' you won't have fo' to work no mo' . 
But Ma'am Mouton was inconsolable . 
It was even as Sylves' had said . 
In the summer time the boys of the Bayou Teche would work in the field or in the town of Franklin , hack driving and doing odd jobs . 
When winter came , there was a general exodus to New Orleans , a hundred miles away , where work was to be had as cigar makers . 
There is money , plenty of it , in cigar making , if one can get in the right place . 
Of late , however , there had been a general slackness of the trade . 
Last winter oftentimes Sylves' had walked the streets out of work . 
Many were the Creole boys who had gone to Chicago to earn a living , for the cigar making trade flourishes there wonderfully . 
Friends of Sylves' had gone , and written home glowing accounts of the money to be had almost for the asking . 
Louisette , the orphan , the girl lover , whom everyone in Franklin knew would some day be Ma'am Mouton's daughter in law , wept and pleaded in vain . 
Sylves' kissed her quivering lips . 
Ma chere , he would say , t'ink , I will bring you one fine diamon' ring , nex' spring , when de bayou overflows again . 
Louisette would fain be content with this promise . 
As for Ma'am Mouton , she seemed to have grown ages older . 
October came , and Sylves' had gone . 
Ma'am Mouton had kept up bravely until the last , when with one final cry she extended her arms to the pitiless train bearing him northward . 
Then she and Louisette went home drearily , the one leaning upon the other . 
Ah , that was a great day when the first letter came from Chicago ! Louisette came running in breathlessly from the post office , and together they read it again and again . 
Chicago was such a wonderful city , said Sylves' . 
Why , it was always like New Orleans at Mardi Gras with the people . 
He had seen Joseph Lascaud , and he had a place to work promised him . 
He was well , but he wanted , oh , so much , to see maman and Louisette . 
But then , he could wait . 
Was ever such a wonderful letter ? Louisette sat for an hour afterwards building gorgeous air castles , while Ma'am Mouton fingered the paper and murmured prayers to the Virgin for Sylves' . 
When the bayou overflowed again ? That would be in April . 
Then Louisette caught herself looking critically at her slender brown fingers , and blushed furiously , though Ma'am Mouton could not see her in the gathering twilight . 
Next week there was another letter , even more wonderful than the first . 
He was making cigars , and was earning two dollars a day . 
Such wages ! Ma'am Mouton and Louisette began to plan pretty things for the brown cottage on the Teche . 
That was a pleasant winter , after all . 
True , there was no Sylves' , but then he was always in New Orleans for a few months any way . 
Now and then there would be a present , a keepsake for Louisette , and some money for maman . 
They would plan improvements for the cottage , and Louisette began to do sewing and dainty crochet , which she would hide with a blush if anyone hinted at a trousseau . 
It was March now , and Spring time . 
The bayou began to sweep down between its banks less sluggishly than before it was rising , and soon would spread over its tiny levees . 
Dear no , they simply look mysterious , and their twigs shake against each other and tell secrets of the leaves that will soon be born . 
One day in March , it was warm and sweet . 
Underfoot were violets , and wee white star flowers peering through the baby grass . 
The sky was blue , with flecks of white clouds reflecting themselves in the brown bayou . 
Louisette tripped up the red brick walk with the Chicago letter in her hand , and paused a minute at the door to look upon the leaping waters , her eyes dancing . 
I am not so well , and Monsieur le docteur says it is well for me to go to the South again . 
Monsieur le docteur ! Sylves' not well ! The thought struck a chill to the hearts of Ma'am Mouton and Louisette , but not for long . 
Of course , Sylves' was not well , he needed some of maman's tisanes . 
Then he was homesick it was to be expected . 
At last the great day came , Sylves' would be home . 
The brown waters of the bayou had spread until they were seemingly trying to rival the Mississippi in width . 
The little house was scrubbed and cleaned until it shone again . 
Louisette had looked her dainty little dress over and over to be sure that there was not a flaw to be found wherein Sylves' could compare her unfavourably to the stylish Chicago girls . 
The train rumbled in on the platform , and two pair of eyes opened wide for the first glimpse of Sylves' . 
The porter , all officiousness and brass buttons , bustled up to Ma'am Mouton . 
This is Mrs. Mouton ? he inquired deferentially . 
Ma'am Mouton nodded , her heart sinking . 
Where is Sylves' ? He is here , madam . 
There appeared Joseph Lascaud , then some men bearing Something . 
Louisette put her hands up to her eyes to hide the sight , but Ma'am Mouton was rigid . 
It was too cold for him , Joseph was saying to almost deaf ears , and he took the consumption . 
He thought he could get well when he come home . 
He talk all the way down about the bayou , and about you and Louisette . 
Just three hours ago he had a bad hemorrhage , and he died from weakness . 
He said he wanted to get home and give Louisette her diamond ring , when the bayou overflowed . 
BAPTISTE He might have had another name we never knew . 
Some one had christened him Mr. Baptiste long ago in the dim past , and it sufficed . 
He was small most Creole men are small when they are old . 
It is strange , but a fact . 
It must be that age withers them sooner and more effectually than those of un Latinised extraction . 
Mr. Baptiste was , furthermore , very much wrinkled and lame . 
Like the Son of Man , he had nowhere to lay his head , save when some kindly family made room for him in a garret or a barn . 
He subsisted by doing odd jobs , white washing , cleaning yards , doing errands , and the like . 
The little old man was a frequenter of the levee . 
Never a day passed that his quaint little figure was not seen moving up and down about the ships . 
Chiefly did he haunt the Texas and Pacific warehouses and the landing place of the Morgan line steamships . 
This seemed like madness , for these spots are almost the busiest on the levee , and the rough seamen and 'longshoremen have least time to be bothered with small weak folks . 
Still there was method in the madness of Mr. Baptiste . 
Then he would slip in at the back door of one of his clients with a brisk , Ah , bonjour , madame . 
Now here ees jus' a lil' bit fruit , some bananas . 
Thus did he eat , and his clients were many , and never too tired or too cross to cook his meals and get their pay in baskets of fruit . 
Madame Garcia moved heavily about the kitchen , putting the plantains in a cool spot and punctuating her foot steps with sundry Mon Dieux and Miseres . 
Dose cotton ! ejaculated Mr. Baptiste , at last . 
Ah , mon Dieu ! groaned Madame Garcia , rolling her eyes heavenwards . 
Hit will drive de fruit away ! he continued . 
Misere ! said Madame Garcia Hit will . 
Oui , out , said Madame Garcia . 
She had carefully inspected the plantains , and seeing that they were good and wholesome , was inclined to agree with anything Mr. Baptiste said . 
Yaas , dose cotton yardmans , dose 'longsho'mans , dey go out on one strik' . 
Dey t'row down dey tool an' say dey work no mo' wid niggers . 
Les veseaux , dey lay in de river , no work , no cargo , yaas . 
Den de fruit ship , dey can' mak' lan' , de mans , dey t'reaten an' say t'ings . 
Dey mak' big fight , yaas . 
Dere no mo' work on de levee , lak dat . 
Ever'body jus' walk roun' an' say cuss word , yaas ! Oh , mon Dieu , mon Dieu ! groaned Madame Garcia , rocking her guinea blue clad self to and fro . 
Mr. Baptiste picked up his nondescript head cover and walked out through the brick reddened alley , talking excitedly to himself . 
Madame Garcia called after him to know if he did not want his luncheon , but he shook his head and passed on . 
Down on the levee it was even as Mr. Baptiste had said . 
The 'long shoremen , the cotton yardmen , and the stevedores had gone out on a strike . 
The levee lay hot and unsheltered under the glare of a noonday sun . 
The turgid Mississippi scarce seemed to flow , but gave forth a brazen gleam from its yellow bosom . 
Great vessels lay against the wharf , silent and unpopulated . 
Excited groups of men clustered here and there among bales of uncompressed cotton , lying about in disorderly profusion . 
Mr. Baptiste wandered in and out among the groups of men , exchanging a friendly salutation here and there . 
He looked the picture of woe begone misery . 
Hello , Mr. Baptiste , cried a big , brawny Irishman , sure an' you look , as if you was about to be hanged . 
Ah , mon Dieu , said Mr. Baptiste , dose fruit ship be ruined fo' dees strik' . 
Damn the fruit ! cheerily replied the Irishman , artistically disposing of a mouthful of tobacco juice . 
It ain't the fruit we care about , it's the cotton . 
Hear ! hear ! cried a dozen lusty comrades . 
Mr. Baptiste shook his head and moved sorrowfully away . 
Hey , by howly St . 
Patrick , here's that little fruit eater ! called the centre of another group of strikers perched on cotton bales . 
Hello ! Where began a second but the leader suddenly held up his hand for silence , and the men listened eagerly . 
It might not have been a sound , for the levee lay quiet and the mules on the cotton drays dozed languidly , their ears pitched at varying acute angles . 
But the practiced ears of the men heard a familiar sound stealing up over the heated stillness . 
Oh ho ho humph humph humph ho ho ho oh o o humph ! Then the faint rattle of chains , and the steady thump of a machine pounding . 
Finnegan , the leader , who had held up his hand for silence , uttered an oath . 
Scabs ! Men , come on ! There was no need for a further invitation . 
The men rose in sullen wrath and went down the levee , the crowd gathering in numbers as it passed along . 
Mr. Baptiste followed in its wake , now and then sighing a mournful protest which was lost in the roar of the men . 
Scabs ! Finnegan had said and the word was passed along , until it seemed that the half of the second District knew and had risen to investigate . 
There rose a White Star steamer , insolently settling itself to the water as each consignment of cotton bales was compressed into her hold . 
Niggers ! roared Finnegan wrathily . 
Niggers ! niggers ! Kill 'em , scabs ! chorused the crowd . 
The roar of the crowd caused the men to look up with momentary apprehension , but at the over seer's reassuring word they bent back to work . 
With livid face and bursting veins he ran into the street facing the French Market , and uprooted a huge block of paving stone . 
Staggering under its weight , he rushed back to the ship , and with one mighty effort hurled it into the hold . 
The delicate poles of the costly machine tottered in the air , then fell forward with a crash as the whole iron framework in the hold collapsed . 
It was pandemonium turned loose over a turgid stream , with a malarial sun to heat the passions to fever point . 
Mr. Baptiste had taken refuge behind a bread stall on the outside of the market . 
He had taken off his cap , and was weakly cheering the Negroes on . 
Bravo ! cheered Mr. Baptiste . 
Will yez look at that damned fruit eatin' Frinchman ! howled McMahon . 
Cheerin' the niggers , are you ? and he let fly a brickbat in the direction of the bread stall . 
Oh , mon Dieu , mon Dieu ! wailed the bread woman . 
Mr. Baptiste lay very still , with a great ugly gash in his wrinkled brown temple . 
Fishmen and vegetable marchands gathered around him in a quick , sympathetic mass . 
The individual , the concrete bit of helpless humanity , had more interest for them than the vast , vague fighting mob beyond . 
The noon hour pealed from the brazen throats of many bells , and the numerous hoarse whistles of the steam boats called the unheeded luncheon time to the levee workers . 
The war waged furiously , and groans of the wounded mingled with curses and roars from the combatants . 
Killed instantly , said the surgeon , carefully lifting Mr. Baptiste into the ambulance . 
Tramp , tramp , tramp , sounded the militia steadily marching down Decatur Street . 
Whist ! do yez hear ! shouted Finnegan and the conflict had ceased ere the yellow river could reflect the sun from the polished bayonets . 
You remember , of course , how long the strike lasted , and how many battles were fought and lives lost before the final adjustment of affairs . 
A CARNIVAL JANGLE There is a merry jangle of bells in the air , an all pervading sense of jester's noise , and the flaunting vividness of royal colours . 
It is Carnival in New Orleans a brilliant Tuesday in February , when the very air gives forth an ozone intensely exhilarating , making one long to cut capers . 
The buildings are a blazing mass of royal purple and golden yellow , national flags , bunting , and decorations that laugh in the glint of the Midas sun . 
Slip off , they'll never miss you we'll get you a rig , and show you what life is . 
Down Bourbon Street and on Toulouse and St . 
Peter Streets there are quaint little old world places where one may be disguised effectually for a tiny consideration . 
Thither , guided by the shapely Mephisto and guarded by the team of jockeys and ballet girls , tripped Flo . 
Into one of the lowest ceiled , dingiest , and most ancient looking of these shops they stepped . 
A disguise for the demoiselle , announced Mephisto to the woman who met them . 
But the demoiselle wishes to appear a boy , un petit garcon ? she inquired , gazing eagerly at Flo's long , slender frame . 
Her voice was old and thin , like the high quavering of an imperfect tuning fork , and her eyes were sharp as talons in their grasping glance . 
Mademoiselle does not wish such a costume , gruffly responded Mephisto . 
Ma foi , there is no other , said the ancient , shrugging her shoulders . 
But one is left now mademoiselle would make a fine troubadour . 
Flo , said Mephisto , it's a dare devil scheme , try it no one will ever know it but us , and we'll die before we tell . 
Besides , we must it's late , and you couldn't find your crowd . 
There is fantasy and fancy and grotesqueness run wild in the costuming and the behaviour of the maskers . 
And in the exhilaration of the day , one walks miles and miles , and dances and skips , and the fatigue is never felt . 
In Washington Square , away down where Royal Street empties its stream of children great and small into the broad channel of Elysian Fields Avenue , there was a perfect Indian pow wow . 
With a little imagination one might have willed away the vision of the surrounding houses , and fancied one's self again in the forest , where the natives were holding a sacred riot . 
The square was filled with spectators , masked and un masked . 
It was amusing to watch these mimic Red men , they seemed so fierce and earnest . 
Suddenly one chief touched another on the elbow . 
See that Mephisto and troubadour over there ? he whispered huskily . 
Yes who are they ? I don't know the devil , responded the other , quietly , but I'd know that other form anywhere . 
It's Leon , see ? I know those white hands like a woman's and that restless head . 
Ha ! But there may be a mistake . 
No. I'd know that one anywhere I feel it is he . 
Ah , sweetheart , you've waited long , but you shall feast now ! He was caressing something long and lithe and glittering beneath his blanket . 
In a masked dance it is easy to give a death blow between the shoulders . 
The twinkling tapers shone pityingly upon her , the beneficent smile of the white robed Madonna seemed to whisper comfort . 
A long gust of chill air swept up the aisles , and Miss Sophie shivered not from cold , but from nervousness . 
It was a wretched , lonely little room , where the cracks let the boisterous wind whistle through , and the smoky , grimy walls looked cheerless and unhomelike . 
A miserable little room in a miserable little cottage in one of the squalid streets of the Third District that nature and the city fathers seemed to have forgotten . 
As bare and comfortless as the room was Miss Sophie's life . 
She rented these four walls from an unkempt little Creole woman , whose progeny seemed like the promised offspring of Abraham . 
It was her bread , this monotonous , unending work and though whole days and nights constant labour brought but the most meagre recompense , it was her only hope of life . 
She sat before the little charcoal brazier and warmed her transparent , needle pricked fingers , thinking meanwhile of the strange events of the day . 
Important looking groomsmen dainty , fluffy , white robed maids stately , satin robed , illusion veiled bride , and happy groom . 
She leaned forward to catch a better glimpse of their faces . 
Not that they knew but then Michel must invent something when the neighbours came to him as their fountain head of wisdom . 
One morning little Miss Sophie opened wide her dingy windows to catch the early freshness of the autumn wind as it whistled through the yellow leafed trees . 
It was one of those calm , blue misted , balmy , November days that New Orleans can have when all the rest of the country is fur wrapped . 
Miss Sophie pulled her machine to the window , where the sweet , damp wind could whisk among her black locks . 
Whirr , whirr , went the machine , ticking fast and lightly over the belts of the rough jeans pants . 
Whirr , whirr , yes , and Miss Sophie was actually humming a tune ! She felt strangely light to day . 
Ma foi , muttered Michel , strolling across the street to where Madame Laurent sat sewing behind the counter on blue and brown checked aprons , but the little ma'amselle sings . 
Perhaps , muttered the rabbe woman . 
But little Miss Sophie felt restless . 
A strange impulse seemed drawing her up town , and the machine seemed to run slow , slow , before it would stitch all of the endless number of jeans belts . 
There was a feverish desire to go somewhere , a sense of elation , a foolish happiness that brought a faint echo of colour into her pinched cheeks . 
No one noticed her in the car . 
Passengers on the Claiborne line are too much accustomed to frail little black robed women with big , black bundles it is one of the city's most pitiful sights . 
She leaned her head out of the window to catch a glimpse of the oleanders on Bayou Road , when her attention was caught by a conversation in the car . 
Yes , it's too bad for Neale , and lately married too , said the elder man . 
I can't see what he is to do . 
Neale ! She pricked up her ears . 
That was the name of the groom in the Jesuit Church . 
How did it happen ? languidly inquired the younger . 
He was a stranger , evidently a stranger with a high regard for the faultlessness of male attire . 
He has given the ring away , and that settles it . 
Well , you 're all chumps . 
You know how Neale is with his love affairs , went off and forgot the girl in a month . 
It seems , however , she took it to heart , so much so that he's ashamed to try to find her or the ring . 
Miss Sophie heard no more as she gazed out into the dusty grass . 
There were tears in her eyes , hot blinding ones that wouldn't drop for pride , but stayed and scalded . 
She knew the story , with all its embellishment of heartaches . 
She knew the ring , too . 
Still he must have it , it was his it would save him from disgrace and suffering and from bringing the white gowned bride into sorrow . 
He must have it but how ? There it was still at the pawn broker's no one would have such an odd jewel , and the ticket was home in the bureau drawer . 
Well , he must have it she might starve in the attempt . 
Such a thing as going to him and telling him that he might redeem it was an impossibility . 
That good , straight backed , stiff necked Creole blood would have risen in all its strength and choked her . 
No as a present had the quaint Roman circlet been placed upon her finger , as a present should it be returned . 
The bumping car rode slowly , and the hot thoughts beat heavily in her poor little head . 
He must have the ring but how the ring the Roman ring the white robed bride starving she was going mad ah yes the church . 
There it was , right in the busiest , most bustling part of the town , its fresco and bronze and iron quaintly suggestive of mediaeval times . 
Within , all was cool and dim and restful , with the faintest whiff of lingering incense rising and pervading the gray arches . 
Titiche , the busybody of the house , noticed that Miss Sophie's bundle was larger than usual that afternoon . 
Ah , poor woman ! sighed Titiche's mother , she would be rich for Christmas . 
The bundle grew larger each day , and Miss Sophie grew smaller . 
The damp , cold rain and mist closed the white curtained window , but always there behind the sewing machine drooped and bobbed the little black robed figure . 
Whirr , whirr went the wheels , and the coarse jeans pants piled in great heaps at her side . 
The Claiborne Street car saw her oftener than before , and the sweet white Virgin in the flowered niche above the gold domed altar smiled at the little supplicant almost every day . 
November had merged into December , and the little pile of coins was yet far from the sum needed . 
Dear God ! how the money did have to go ! The rent and the groceries and the coal , though , to be sure , she used a precious bit of that . 
Would all the work and saving and skimping do good ? Maybe , yes , maybe by Christmas . 
Christmas Eve on Royal Street is no place for a weakling , for the shouts and carousels of the roisterers will strike fear into the bravest ones . 
Into the Mont de Piete she ran breathless , eager . 
The ticket ? Here , worn , crumpled . 
The ring ? It was not gone ? No , thank Heaven ! It was a joy well worth her toil , she thought , to have it again . 
Ah , dear ring , she murmured , once you were his , and you shall be his again . 
You shall be on his finger , and perhaps touch his heart . 
Dear ring , ma chere petite de ma coeur , cherie de ma coeur . 
Je t'aime , je t'aime , oui , oui . 
You are his you were mine once too . 
To night , just one night , I'll keep you then to morrow , you shall go where you can save him . 
The loud whistles and horns of the little ones rose on the balmy air next morning . 
No one would doubt it was Christmas Day , even if doors and windows were open wide to let in cool air . 
Michel and Madame Laurent smiled greetings across the street at each other , and the salutation from a passer by recalled the many progenied landlady to herself . 
Miss Sophie , well , po' soul , not ver' much Chris'mas for her . 
Mais , I'll jus' call him in fo' to spen' the day with me . 
Eet'll cheer her a bit . 
It was so clean and orderly within the poor little room . 
Titiche had evidently inherited his prying propensities , for the landlady turned it over and read , LOUIS , Here is the ring . 
I return it to you . 
I heard you needed it . 
I hope it comes not too late . 
The ring , where ? muttered the landlady . 
There it was , clasped between her fingers on her bosom , a bosom white and cold , under a cold happy face . 
Christmas had indeed dawned for Miss Sophie . 
SISTER JOSEPHA Sister Josepha told her beads mechanically , her fingers numb with the accustomed exercise . 
The little organ creaked a dismal O Salutaris , and she still knelt on the floor , her white bonneted head nodding suspiciously . 
The Mother Superior gave a sharp glance at the tired figure then , as a sudden lurch forward brought the little sister back to consciousness , Mother's eyes relaxed into a genuine smile . 
The bell tolled the end of vespers , and the sombre robed nuns filed out of the chapel to go about their evening duties . 
Little Sister Josepha's work was to attend to the household lamps , but there must have been as much oil spilled upon the table to night as was put in the vessels . 
The small brown hands trembled so that most of the wicks were trimmed with points at one corner which caused them to smoke that night . 
Oh , cher Seigneur , she sighed , giving an impatient polish to a refractory chimney , it is wicked and sinful , I know , but I am so tired . 
I can't be happy and sing any more . 
Pah ! And she polished the chimney with a sudden vigorous jerk which threatened destruction . 
They were rebellious prayers that the red mouth murmured that night , and a restless figure that tossed on the hard dormitory bed . 
Sister Dominica called from her couch to know if Sister Josepha were ill . 
It was a child without an identity there was but one name that any one seemed to know , and that , too , was vague , Camille . 
She grew up with the rest of the waifs scraps of French and American civilization thrown together to develop a seemingly inconsistent miniature world . 
Mademoiselle Camille was a queen among them , a pretty little tyrant who ruled the children and dominated the more timid sisters in charge . 
One day an awakening came . 
Camille fled like a frightened fawn into the yard , and was only unearthed with some difficulty from behind a group of palms . 
Sulky and pouting , she was led into the parlour , picking at her blue pinafore like a spoiled infant . 
The lady and gentleman wish you to go home with them , Camille , said the Mother Superior , in the language of the convent . 
You must understand , madame , continued Mother , in stilted English , that we never force children from us . 
We are ever glad to place them in comfortable how you say that ? quarters maisons homes bien ! But we will not make them go if they do not wish . 
Camille stole a glance at her would be guardians , and decided instantly , impulsively , finally . 
The woman suited her but the man ! It was doubtless intuition of the quick , vivacious sort which belonged to her blood that served her . 
Next day Camille was summoned from a task to the Mother Superior's parlour . 
The other girls gazed with envy upon her as she dashed down the courtyard with impetuous movement . 
Camille , they decided crossly , received too much notice . 
It was Camille this , Camille that she was pretty , it was to be expected . 
Even Father Ray lingered longer in his blessing when his hands pressed her silky black hair . 
As she entered the parlour , a strange chill swept over the girl . 
Camille , ma chere , said Mother , I am extremely displeased with you . 
Why did you not wish to go with Monsieur and Madame Lafaye yesterday ? The girl uncrossed her hands from her bosom , and spread them out in a deprecating gesture . 
Mais , ma mere , I was afraid . 
No foolishness now , she exclaimed . 
It is not foolishness , ma mere I could not help it , but that man looked at me so funny , I felt all cold chills down my back . 
Now that the period of novitiate was over , it was just beginning to dawn upon her that she had made a mistake . 
Maybe it would have been better had I gone with the funny looking lady and gentleman , she mused bitterly one night . 
Oh , Seigneur , I 'm so tired and impatient it's so dull here , and , dear God , I'm so young . 
There was no help for it . 
A great fete day was coming , and an atmosphere of preparation and mild excitement pervaded the brown walls of the convent like a delicate aroma . 
The old Cathedral around the corner had stood a hundred years , and all the city was rising to do honour to its age and time softened beauty . 
There would be a service , oh , but such a one ! with two Cardinals , and Archbishops and Bishops , and all the accompanying glitter of soldiers and orchestras . 
The little sisters of the Convent du Sacre Coeur clasped their hands in anticipation of the holy joy . 
Sister Josepha curled her lip , she was so tired of churchly pleasures . 
The old Cathedral stood gray and solemn , and the flowers in Jackson Square smiled cheery birthday greetings across the way . 
The crowd around the door surged and pressed and pushed in its eagerness to get within . 
Ribbons stretched across the banquette were of no avail to repress it , and important ushers with cardinal colours could do little more . 
The Sacred Heart sisters filed slowly in at the side door , creating a momentary flutter as they paced reverently to their seats , guarding the blue bonneted orphans . 
The rebellious thoughts that will arise in the most philosophical of us surged in her small heavily gowned bosom . 
Dear God , forgive her , for she bent with contrite tears over her worn rosary , and glanced no more at the worldly glitter of femininity . 
The sunbeams streamed through the high windows in purple and crimson lights upon a veritable fugue of colour . 
Within the seats , crush upon crush of spring millinery within the aisles erect lines of gold braided , gold buttoned military . 
The soft baritone of the Cardinal intoned a single phrase in the suspended silence . 
The censer took up the note in its delicate clink clink , as it swung to and fro in the hands of a fair haired child . 
One voice , flute like , piercing , sweet , rang high over the rest . 
Sister Josepha heard and trembled , as she buried her face in her hands , and let her tears fall , like other beads , through her rosary . 
That was all she remembered for a moment , that the eyes were youthful and handsome and tender . 
That night Sister Josepha tossed more than usual on her hard bed , and clasped her fingers often in prayer to quell the wickedness in her heart . 
Turn where she would , pray as she might , there was ever a pair of tender , pitying brown eyes , haunting her persistently . 
The squeaky organ at vespers intoned the clank of military accoutrements to her ears , the white bonnets of the sisters about her faded into mists of curling brown hair . 
Briefly , Sister Josepha was in love . 
The days went on pretty much as before , save for the one little heart that beat rebelliously now and then , though it tried so hard to be submissive . 
There was the morning work in the refectory , the stupid little girls to teach sewing , and the insatiable lamps that were so greedy for oil . 
And always the tender , boyish brown eyes , that looked so sorrowfully at the fragile , beautiful little sister , haunting , following , pleading . 
Perchance , had Sister Josepha been in the world , the eyes would have been an incident . 
But in this home of self repression and retrospection , it was a life story . 
The eyes had gone their way , doubtless forgetting the little sister they pitied but the little sister ? The days glided into weeks , the weeks into months . 
It was all planned and ready . 
She would wait until some morning when the little band of black robed sisters wended their way to mass at the Cathedral . 
Beyond this first plan she could think no further . 
Penniless , garbed , and shaven though she would be , other difficulties never presented themselves to her . 
She would rely on the mercies of the world to help her escape from this torturing life of inertia . 
It seemed easy now that the first step of decision had been taken . 
The Saturday night before the final day had come , and she lay feverishly nervous in her narrow little bed , wondering with wide eyed fear at the morrow . 
Pale eyed Sister Dominica and Sister Francesca were whispering together in the dark silence , and Sister Josepha's ears pricked up as she heard her name . 
She is not well , poor child , said Francesca . 
I fear the life is too confining . 
It is best for her , was the reply . 
Like the rush of the bitter salt tide over a drowning man clinging to a spar , came the complete submerging of her hopes of another life . 
In a flash she realised the deception of the life she would lead , and the cruel self torture of wonder at her own identity . 
The organ pealed forth as mass ended , the throng slowly filed out , and the sisters paced through the courtway back into the brown convent walls . 
THE PRALINE WOMAN The praline woman sits by the side of the Archbishop's quaint little old chapel on Royal Street , and slowly waves her latanier fan over the pink and brown wares . 
Ah , ma'amzelle , you buy ? S'il vous plait , ma'amzelle , ces pralines , dey be fine , ver' fresh . 
Mais non , maman , you are not sure ? Sho' , chile , ma bebe , ma petite , she put dese up hissef . 
He's hans' so small , ma'amzelle , lak you's , mais brune . 
She put dese up dis morn' . 
You don' look lak dese New Orleans peop' . 
You lak' dose Yankee dat come down 'fo' de war . 
Ding dong , ding dong , ding dong , chimes the Cathedral bell across Jack son Square , and the praline woman crosses herself . 
Hail , Mary , full of grace Pralines , madame ? You buy lak' dat ? Dix sous , madame , an' one lil' piece fo' lagniappe fo' madame's lil' bebe . 
Misere , misere ! Here come dat lazy Indien squaw . 
What she good fo' , anyhow ? She jes' sit lak dat in de French Market an' sell her file , an' sleep , sleep , sleep , lak' so in he's blanket . 
It tas' good , I know , bien . 
Pralines , madame ? I lak' you' face . 
What fo' you wear black ? You' lil' boy daid ? You tak' one , jes' see how it tas' . 
I had one lil' boy once , he jes' grow 'twell he's big lak' dis , den one day he tak' sick an' die . 
Oh , madame , it mos' brek my po' heart . 
I burn candle in St . 
Non , non , no l'argent , you tak' one fo' my lil' boy's sake . 
Pralines , pralines , m'sieu ? Who mak' dese ? My lil' gal , Didele , of co'se . 
Non , non , I don't mak' no mo' . 
Po' Tante Marie get too ol' . 
Didele ? She's one lil' gal I 'dopt . 
I see her one day in de strit . 
He walk so hit col' she shiver , an' I say , 'Where you gone , lil' gal ? and he can' tell . 
He jes' crip close to me , an' cry so ! Den I tak' her home wid me , and she say he's name Didele . 
You see dey wa'nt nobody dere . 
My lil' gal , she's daid of de yellow fever my lil' boy , he's daid , po' Tante Marie all alone . 
Didele , she grow fine , she keep house an' mek' pralines . 
Here come dat lazy I'ishman down de strit . 
I don't lak' I'ishman , me , non , dey so funny . 
Didele , she be wait fo' me . 
Down h'it come ! H'it fall in de Meesseesip , an' fill up up so , clean to de levee , den we have big crivasse , an' po' Tante Marie float away . 
Days and days before the Carnival proper , New Orleans begins to take on a festive appearance . 
On Mardi Gras day , as you know , it is a town gone mad with folly . 
A huge masked ball emptied into the streets at daylight a meeting of all nations on common ground , a pot pourri of every conceivable human ingredient , but faintly describes it all . 
There are music and flowers , cries and laughter and song and joyousness , and never an aching heart to show its sorrow or dim the happiness of the streets . 
It was a woman's , of course for Il est toujours les femmes qui sont malheureuses , says an old proverb , and perhaps it is right . 
Odalie was haughty too , but gracious enough to those who pleased her dainty fancy . 
Monsieur le Juge was determined no hawk should break through the cage and steal his dove and so , though there was no mother , a stern duenna aunt kept faithful watch . 
Odalie loved , perhaps , because there was not much else to do . 
It was to be a time of joy and relaxation , when every one could go abroad , and in the crowds one could speak to whom one chose . 
Unconscious plans formulated , and the petite Odalie was quite happy as the time drew near . 
Only think , Tante Louise , she would cry , what a happy time it is to be ! But Tante Louise only grumbled , as was her wont . 
Up to her ears there floated the laughter of the older maskers , and the screams of the little children frightened at their own images under the mask and domino . 
The allegorical carts rumbling by with their important red clothed horses were beginning to lose charm , the disguises showed tawdry , even the gay hued flags fluttered sadly to Odalie . 
Mardi Gras was a tiresome day , after all , she sighed , and Tante Louise agreed with her for once . 
Six o'clock had come , the hour when all masks must be removed . 
The long red rays of the setting sun glinted athwart the many hued costumes of the revellers trooping unmasked homeward to rest for the night's last mad frolic . 
Down Toulouse Street there came the merriest throng of all . 
Singing with unmasked faces , they danced toward Tante Louise and Odalie . 
Pierre ! cried Odalie , softly . 
No one heard , for it was a mere faint breath and fell unheeded . 
Instead the laughing throng pelted her with flowers and candy and went their way , and even Pierre did not see . 
It is the hour for the arrival of the New Camelia , the happening of the day . 
On this particular day there was an air of suppressed excitement about the little knot of people which gathered on the pier . 
To be sure , there were no outward signs to show that anything unusual had occurred . 
The small folks danced with the same glee over the worn boards , and peered down with daring excitement into the perilous depths of the water below . 
But there was a something in the air , a something not tangible , but mysterious , subtle . 
You could catch an indescribable whiff of it in your inner senses , by the half eager , furtive glances that the small crowd cast at La Juanita . 
Gar , gar , le bateau ! said one dark tressed mother to the wide eyed baby . 
Et , oui , she added , in an undertone to her companion . 
There was the clang of an important bell , the scream of a hoarse little whistle , and Mandeville rushed to the gang plank to welcome the outside world . 
Juanita put her hand through a waiting arm , and tripped away with her Mercer , big and blond and brawny . 
Un Americain , pah ! said the little mother of the black eyes . 
And Mandeville sighed sadly , and shook its head , and was sorry for Grandpere Colomes . 
This was Saturday , and the big regatta would be Monday . 
In Class A was entered , La Juanita , captain Mercer Grangeman , colours pink and gold . 
Her name , her colours what impudence ! Of course , not being a Mandevillian , you could not understand the shame of Grandpere Colomes at this . 
Monday came , clear and blue and stifling . 
The waves of hot air danced on the sands and adown the one street merrily . 
Glassily calm lay the Pontchartrain , heavily still hung the atmosphere . 
Madame Alvarez cast an inquiring glance toward the sky . 
He had not lived on the shores of the treacherous Lake Pontchartrain for nothing . 
He knew its every mood , its petulances and passions he knew this glassy warmth and what it meant . 
Chuckling again and again , he stepped to the gallery and looked out over the lake , and at the pier , where lay the boats rocking and idly tugging at their moorings . 
La Juanita in her rose scented room tied the pink ribbons on her dainty frock , and fastened cloth of gold roses at her lithe waist . 
Mandeville cheered and strained its eyes after all the boats , but chiefly was its attention directed to La Juanita . 
A sudden chuckle of grim satisfaction caused La Petite's head to toss petulantly . 
But only for a minute , for Grandpere Colomes' chuckle was followed by a shout of dismay from those whose glance had followed his . 
Tammany parish into the lake . 
La Juanita clasped her hands and strained her eyes for her namesake . 
The racers had rounded the second stake boat , and the course of the triangle headed them directly for the lurid cloud . 
You should have seen Grandpere Colomes then . 
He danced up and down the pier in a perfect frenzy . 
The thin pale lips of Madame Alvarez moved in a silent prayer La Juanita stood coldly silent . 
And now you could see that the advance guard of the southeast force had struck the little fleet . 
They dipped and scurried and rocked , and you could see the sails being reefed hurriedly , and almost hear the rigging creak and moan under the strain . 
Then the wind came up the lake , and struck the town with a tumultuous force . 
The waters rose and heaved in the long , sullen ground swell , which betokened serious trouble . 
There was a rush of lake craft to shelter . 
It was foolish to hope that the frail boats could survive such a storm . 
There was not even the merest excuse for shelter out in the waters , and when Lake Pontchartrain grows angry , it devours without pity . 
Your tropical storm is soon over , however , and in an hour the sun struggled through a gray and misty sky , over which the wind was sweeping great clouds . 
The rain drops hung diamond like on the thick foliage , but the long ground swell still boomed against the breakwaters and showed white teeth , far to the south . 
Slowly upon the horizon appeared white sails , and the little craft swung into sight . 
One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , counted Mandeville . 
Every one coming in ! Bravo ! And a great cheer that swept the whole length of the town from the post office to Black Bayou went up . 
Bravo ! Every boat was coming in . 
He was no longer un Americain now , he was a hero . 
When the other eight boats came in , and Mandeville saw that no one was lost , there was another ringing bravo , and more chattering of questions . 
We heard the truth finally . 
When the storm burst , Captain Mercer suddenly promoted himself to an admiralship and assumed command of his little fleet . 
He had led them through the teeth of the gale to a small inlet on the coast between Bayou Lacombe and Nott's Point , and there they had waited until the storm passed . 
And we danced at the betrothal supper the next week . 
TITEE It was cold that day . 
The great sharp north wind swept out Elysian Fields Street in blasts that made men shiver , and bent everything in their track . 
The skies hung lowering and gloomy the usually quiet street was more than deserted , it was dismal . 
Titee leaned against one of the brown freight cars for protection against the shrill norther , and warmed his little chapped hands at a blaze of chips and dry grass . 
Maybe it'll snow , he muttered , casting a glance at the sky that would have done credit to a practised seaman . 
A practical joke he relished infinitely more than a practical problem , and a good game at pin sticking was far more entertaining than a language lesson . 
Moreover , he was always hungry , and would eat in school before the half past ten recess , thereby losing much good playtime for his voracious appetite . 
But there was nothing in natural history that Titee did not know . 
He could dissect a butterfly or a mosquito hawk , and describe their parts as accurately as a spectacled student with a scalpel and microscope could talk about a cadaver . 
The entire Third District , with its swamps and canals and commons and railroad sections , and its wondrous , crooked , tortuous streets , was an open book to Titee . 
There was not a nook or corner that he did not know or could not tell of . 
There was not a bit of gossip among the gamins , little Creole and Spanish fellows , with dark skins and lovely eyes , like spaniels , that Titee could not tell of . 
Titee shivered as the wind swept round the freight cars . 
There isn't much warmth in a bit of a jersey coat . 
Wish 'twas summer , he murmured , casting another sailor's glance at the sky . 
Don't believe I like snow it's too wet and cold . 
A sharp strap stings in cold weather , and a long walk in the teeth of a biting wind creates a keen appetite . 
A new live play toy h'it may be , ventured the father he is one funny chil . 
The next day Titee was late for school . 
It was something unusual , for he was always the first on hand to fix some plan of mechanism to make the teacher miserable . 
She looked reprovingly at him this morning , when he came in during arithmetic class , his hair all wind blown , his cheeks rosy from a hard fight with the sharp blasts . 
Hello , Edgar , he said , what you got fer lunch ? Nothin' , was the mournful reply . 
Ah , why don't you stop eatin' in school , fer a change ? You don't ever have nothin' to eat . 
I didn't eat to day , said Titee , blazing up . 
You did ! I tell you I didn't ! and Titee's hard little fist planted a punctuation mark on his comrade's eye . 
A fight in the schoolyard ! Poor Titee was in disgrace again . 
One day it rained , whole bucketsful of water , that poured in torrents from a miserable , angry sky . 
As the day wore on , and the rain did not abate , his mother kept a strong watch upon him , for he tried many times to slip away . 
Dinner came and went , and the gray soddenness of the skies deepened into the blackness of coming night . 
Someone called Titee to go to bed , and Titee was nowhere to be found . 
With lanterns and sticks , and his little yellow dog , the rescuing party started down the track . 
The rain had ceased falling , but the wind blew a gale , scurrying great gray clouds over a fierce sky . 
Search as they did , there were no signs of Titee . 
The soft earth between the railroad ties crumbled between their feet without showing any small tracks or footprints . 
Mais , we may as well return , said the big brother he is not here . 
Oh , mon Dieu , urged the mother , he is , he is I know it . 
So on they went , slipping on the wet earth , stumbling over the loose rocks , until a sudden wild yelp from Tiger brought them to a standstill . 
He had rushed ahead of them , and his voice could be heard in the distance , howling piteously . 
With a fresh impetus the little muddy party hurried forward . 
Tiger's yelps could be heard plainer and plainer , mingled now with a muffled , plaintive little wail . 
After a while they found a pitiful little heap of sodden rags , lying at the foot of a mound of earth and stones thrown upon the side of the track . 
It was Titee with a broken leg , all wet and miserable and moaning . 
They picked him up tenderly , and started to carry him home . 
But he cried and clung to the mother , and begged not to go . 
Ah , mon pauvre enfant , he has the fever ! wailed the mother . 
No , no , it's my old man . 
He's hungry , sobbed Titee , holding out a little package . 
It was the remnants of his dinner , all wet and rain washed . 
What old man ? asked the big brother . 
Oh , please , please don't go home till I see him . 
I'm not hurting much , I can go . 
So , yielding to his whim , they carried him farther away , down the sides of the track up to an embankment or levee by the sides of the Marigny Canal . 
Then the big brother , suddenly stopping , exclaimed Why , here's a cave . 
Is it Robinson Crusoe ? It's my old man's cave , cried Titee . 
Oh , please go in maybe he's dead . 
There cannot be much ceremony in entering a cave . 
There is but one thing to do , walk in . 
This they did , and holding up the lantern , beheld a weird sight . 
On a bed of straw and paper in one corner lay a withered , wizened , white bearded old man with wide eyes staring at the unaccustomed light . 
In the other corner was an equally dilapidated cow . 
It's my old man ! cried Titee , joyfully . 
So the secret of Titee's jaunts down the railroad was out . 
In one of his trips around the swamp land , he had discovered the old man exhausted from cold and hunger in the fields . 
Together they had found this cave , and Titee had gathered the straw and paper that made the bed . 
Then a tramp cow , old and turned adrift , too , had crept in and shared the damp dwelling . 
And thither Titee had trudged twice a day , carrying his luncheon in the morning and his dinner in the afternoon . 
There's a crown in heaven for that child , said the officer of charity to whom the case was referred . 
But as for Titee , when the leg was well , he went his way as before . 
The end of The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Goodness of St . 
