SUMMER by Edith Wharton I A girl came out of lawyer Royall's house , at the end of the one street of North Dormer , and stood on the doorstep . 
It was the beginning of a June afternoon . 
The springlike transparent sky shed a rain of silver sunshine on the roofs of the village , and on the pastures and larchwoods surrounding it . 
The place lies high and in the open , and lacks the lavish shade of the more protected New England villages . 
How I hate everything ! she murmured . 
The young man had passed through the Hatchard gate , and she had the street to herself . 
The girl walked along , swinging her key on a finger , and looking about her with the heightened attention produced by the presence of a stranger in a familiar place . 
The sight of the stranger once more revived memories of Nettleton , and North Dormer shrank to its real size . 
As she looked up and down it , from lawyer Royall's faded red house at one end to the white church at the other , she pitilessly took its measure . 
Yet Charity Royall had always been told that she ought to consider it a privilege that her lot had been cast in North Dormer . 
She knew that , compared to the place she had come from , North Dormer represented all the blessings of the most refined civilization . 
Everyone in the village had told her so ever since she had been brought there as a child . 
The Mountain was a good fifteen miles away , but it rose so abruptly from the lower hills that it seemed almost to cast its shadow over North Dormer . 
And it was like a great magnet drawing the clouds and scattering them in storm across the valley . 
She looked up at the Mountain , thinking of these things , and tried as usual to be thankful . 
How I hate everything ! she said again . 
Half way down the street she stopped at a weak hinged gate . 
For Honorius Hatchard , in the early years of the nineteenth century , had enjoyed a modest celebrity . 
She unrolled the lace , dug the hook into a loop , and bent to the task with furrowed brows . 
Suddenly the door opened , and before she had raised her eyes she knew that the young man she had seen going in at the Hatchard gate had entered the library . 
At length he reached the desk and stood before her . 
Have you a card catalogue ? he asked in a pleasant abrupt voice and the oddness of the question caused her to drop her work . 
The fact that , in discovering her , he lost the thread of his remark , did not escape her attention , and she looked down and smiled . 
No , I don't suppose you do know , he corrected himself . 
He added the last phrase so respectfully that she was mollified , and rejoined with a sigh I'm afraid I can't help you much . 
Why ? he questioned in his turn and she replied that there weren't many books anyhow , and that she'd hardly read any of them . 
The worms are getting at them , she added gloomily . 
Are they ? That's a pity , for I see there are some good ones . 
He seemed to have lost interest in their conversation , and strolled away again , apparently forgetting her . 
His indifference nettled her , and she picked up her work , resolved not to offer him the least assistance . 
Oh , I say ! he exclaimed and looking up she saw that he had drawn out his handkerchief and was carefully wiping the edges of the book in his hand . 
The action struck her as an unwarranted criticism on her care of the books , and she said irritably It's not my fault if they're dirty . 
He turned around and looked at her with reviving interest . 
Ah then you're not the librarian ? Of course I am but I can't dust all these books . 
Besides , nobody ever looks at them , now Miss Hatchard's too lame to come round . 
No , I suppose not . 
He laid down the book he had been wiping , and stood considering her in silence . 
She wondered if Miss Hatchard had sent him round to pry into the way the library was looked after , and the suspicion increased her resentment . 
I saw you going into her house just now , didn't I ? she asked , with the New England avoidance of the proper name . 
She was determined to find out why he was poking about among her books . 
Miss Hatchard's house ? Yes she's my cousin and I'm staying there , the young man answered adding , as if to disarm a visible distrust My name is Harney Lucius Harney . 
She may have spoken of me . 
No , she hasn't , said Charity , wishing she could have said Yes , she has . 
Her bewilderment was complete the more she wished to appear to understand him the more unintelligible his remarks became . 
He reminded her of the gentleman who had explained the pictures at Nettleton , and the weight of her ignorance settled down on her again like a pall . 
I mean , I can't see that you have any books on the old houses about here . 
I suppose , for that matter , this part of the country hasn't been much explored . 
They all go on doing Plymouth and Salem . 
My cousin's house , now , is remarkable . 
This place must have had a past it must have been more of a place once . 
He stopped short , with the blush of a shy man who overhears himself , and fears he has been voluble . 
I'm an architect , you see , and I'm hunting up old houses in these parts . 
Old houses ? Everything's old in North Dormer , isn't it ? The folks are , anyhow . 
He laughed , and wandered away again . 
She pressed her crochet hook against her lip and pondered . 
There was such a work , she knew North Dormer and the Early Townships of Eagle County . 
Such were their titles to fame . 
She got up and began to move about vaguely before the shelves . 
But she had no idea where she had last put the book , and something told her that it was going to play her its usual trick and remain invisible . 
It was not one of her lucky days . 
I guess it's somewhere , she said , to prove her zeal but she spoke without conviction , and felt that her words conveyed none . 
Oh , well he said again . 
She knew he was going , and wished more than ever to find the book . 
It will be for next time , he added and picking up the volume he had laid on the desk he handed it to her . 
By the way , a little air and sun would do this good it's rather valuable . 
He gave her a nod and smile , and passed out . 
II The hours of the Hatchard Memorial librarian were from three to five and Charity Royall's sense of duty usually kept her at her desk until nearly half past four . 
A few minutes after Mr. Harney's departure she formed this decision , put away her lace , fastened the shutters , and turned the key in the door of the temple of knowledge . 
The street upon which she emerged was still empty and after glancing up and down it she began to walk toward her house . 
But instead of entering she passed on , turned into a field path and mounted to a pasture on the hillside . 
There she lay down on the slope , tossed off her hat and hid her face in the grass . 
She was blind and insensible to many things , and dimly knew it but to all that was light and air , perfume and colour , every drop of blood in her responded . 
She often climbed up the hill and lay there alone for the mere pleasure of feeling the wind and of rubbing her cheeks in the grass . 
Generally at such times she did not think of anything , but lay immersed in an inarticulate well being . 
Today the sense of well being was intensified by her joy at escaping from the library . 
She liked well enough to have a friend drop in and talk to her when she was on duty , but she hated to be bothered about books . 
She had these under her hand , and could have found them in the dark but unexpected demands came so rarely that they exasperated her like an injustice . 
But she did feel it , and liked the feeling for it was new to her . 
In spite of everything and in spite even of Miss Hatchard lawyer Royall ruled in North Dormer and Charity ruled in lawyer Royall's house . 
She had never put it to herself in those terms but she knew her power , knew what it was made of , and hated it . 
Confusedly , the young man in the library had made her feel for the first time what might be the sweetness of dependence . 
She sat up , brushed the bits of grass from her hair , and looked down on the house where she held sway . 
Charity could not recall her first sight of the house . 
Mrs. Royall died seven or eight years later and by that time Charity had taken the measure of most things about her . 
She knew that Mrs. Royall was sad and timid and weak she knew that lawyer Royall was harsh and violent , and still weaker . 
After Mrs. Royall's death there was some talk of sending her to a boarding school . 
Miss Hatchard suggested it , and had a long conference with Mr. Royall , who , in pursuance of her plan , departed one day for Starkfield to visit the institution she recommended . 
He came back the next night with a black face worse , Charity observed , than she had ever seen him and by that time she had had some experience . 
Charity was disappointed but she understood . 
It wasn't the temptations of Starkfield that had been Mr. Royall's undoing it was the thought of losing her . 
He was a dreadfully lonesome man she had made that out because she was so lonesome herself . 
Miss Hatchard reasoned with her kindly , but to no purpose she simply repeated I guess Mr. Royall's too lonesome . 
Miss Hatchard blinked perplexedly behind her eye glasses . 
The feeling does you credit , my dear . 
She looked about the pale walls of her sitting room , seeking counsel of ancestral daguerreotypes and didactic samplers but they seemed to make utterance more difficult . 
The fact is , it's not only not only because of the advantages . 
You're too young to understand Oh , no , I ain't , said Charity harshly and Miss Hatchard blushed to the roots of her blonde cap . 
you know you can always come to me . 
Lawyer Royall was waiting for Charity in the porch when she returned from this visit . 
He had shaved , and brushed his black coat , and looked a magnificent monument of a man at such moments she really admired him . 
Well , he said , is it settled ? Yes , it's settled . 
Not to the Nettleton school ? Not anywhere . 
He cleared his throat and asked sternly Why ? I'd rather not , she said , swinging past him on her way to her room . 
It was the following week that he brought her up the Crimson Rambler and its fan from Hepburn . 
He had never given her anything before . 
The next outstanding incident of her life had happened two years later , when she was seventeen . 
Lawyer Royall , who hated to go to Nettleton , had been called there in connection with a case . 
He still exercised his profession , though litigation languished in North Dormer and its outlying hamlets and for once he had had an opportunity that he could not afford to refuse . 
He spent three days in Nettleton , won his case , and came back in high good humour . 
It was a rare mood with him , and manifested itself on this occasion by his talking impressively at the supper table of the rousing welcome his old friends had given him . 
He wound up confidentially I was a damn fool ever to leave Nettleton . 
It was Mrs. Royall that made me do it . 
Charity immediately perceived that something bitter had happened to him , and that he was trying to talk down the recollection . 
She went up to bed early , leaving him seated in moody thought , his elbows propped on the worn oilcloth of the supper table . 
On the way up she had extracted from his overcoat pocket the key of the cupboard where the bottle of whiskey was kept . 
She was awakened by a rattling at her door and jumped out of bed . 
She heard Mr. Royall's voice , low and peremptory , and opened the door , fearing an accident . 
No other thought had occurred to her but when she saw him in the doorway , a ray from the autumn moon falling on his discomposed face , she understood . 
For a moment they looked at each other in silence then , as he put his foot across the threshold , she stretched out her arm and stopped him . 
You go right back from here , she said , in a shrill voice that startled her you ain't going to have that key tonight . 
Charity , let me in . 
I don't want the key . 
I'm a lonesome man , he began , in the deep voice that sometimes moved her . 
Her heart gave a startled plunge , but she continued to hold him back contemptuously . 
Well , I guess you made a mistake , then . 
This ain't your wife's room any longer . 
She crept to the window and saw his bent figure striding up the road in the moonlight . 
Then a belated sense of fear came to her with the consciousness of victory , and she slipped into bed , cold to the bone . 
The request seemed to surprise Miss Hatchard she evidently questioned the new candidate's qualifications . 
Why , I don't know , my dear . 
Aren't you rather too young ? she hesitated . 
I want to earn some money , Charity merely answered . 
Doesn't Mr. Royall give you all you require ? No one is rich in North Dormer . 
I want to earn money enough to get away . 
To get away ? Miss Hatchard's puzzled wrinkles deepened , and there was a distressful pause . 
You want to leave Mr. Royall ? Yes or I want another woman in the house with me , said Charity resolutely . 
Miss Hatchard clasped her nervous hands about the arms of her chair . 
Her eyes invoked the faded countenances on the wall , and after a faint cough of indecision she brought out The . 
the housework's too hard for you , I suppose ? Charity's heart grew cold . 
She understood that Miss Hatchard had no help to give her and that she would have to fight her way out of her difficulty alone . 
A deeper sense of isolation overcame her she felt incalculably old . 
She's got to be talked to like a baby , she thought , with a feeling of compassion for Miss Hatchard's long immaturity . 
Yes , that's it , she said aloud . 
The housework's too hard for me I've been coughing a good deal this fall . 
She noted the immediate effect of this suggestion . 
Miss Hatchard paled at the memory of poor Eudora's taking off , and promised to do what she could . 
But of course there were people she must consult the clergyman , the selectmen of North Dormer , and a distant Hatchard relative at Springfield . 
If you'd only gone to school ! she sighed . 
She followed Charity to the door , and there , in the security of the threshold , said with a glance of evasive appeal I know Mr. Royall is . 
trying at times but his wife bore with him and you must always remember , Charity , that it was Mr. Royall who brought you down from the Mountain . 
Charity went home and opened the door of Mr. Royall's office . 
He was sitting there by the stove reading Daniel Webster's speeches . 
She told him she had been to see Miss Hatchard , and with what object . 
She saw that he was astonished but he made no comment . 
I told her the housework was too hard for me , and I wanted to earn the money to pay for a hired girl . 
But I ain't going to pay for her you've got to . 
I want to have some money of my own . 
Mr. Royall's bushy black eyebrows were drawn together in a frown , and he sat drumming with ink stained nails on the edge of his desk . 
What do you want to earn money for ? he asked . 
So's to get away when I want to . 
Why do you want to get away ? Her contempt flashed out . 
I'll try here first , and if I can't do it here I'll go somewhere else . 
I'll go up the Mountain if I have to . 
She paused on this threat , and saw that it had taken effect . 
I want you should get Miss Hatchard and the selectmen to take me at the library and I want a woman here in the house with me , she repeated . 
Mr. Royall had grown exceedingly pale . 
When she ended he stood up ponderously , leaning against the desk and for a second or two they looked at each other . 
See here , he said at length as though utterance were difficult , there's something I've been wanting to say to you I'd ought to have said it before . 
I want you to marry me . 
The girl still stared at him without moving . 
I want you to marry me , he repeated , clearing his throat . 
The minister'll be up here next Sunday and we can fix it up then . 
Or I'll drive you down to Hepburn to the Justice , and get it done there . 
I'll do whatever you say . 
His eyes fell under the merciless stare she continued to fix on him , and he shifted his weight uneasily from one foot to the other . 
Marry you ? Me ? she burst out with a scornful laugh . 
I suppose you think it would be cheaper to marry me than to keep a hired girl . 
Everybody knows you're the closest man in Eagle County but I guess you're not going to get your mending done for you that way twice . 
Mr. Royall did not move while she spoke . 
His face was ash coloured and his black eyebrows quivered as though the blaze of her scorn had blinded him . 
When she ceased he held up his hand . 
That'll do that'll about do , he said . 
He turned to the door and took his hat from the hat peg . 
On the threshold he paused . 
People ain't been fair to me from the first they ain't been fair to me , he said . 
III It was not in the room known at the red house as Mr. Royall's office that he received his infrequent clients . 
It was his habit to walk to this office twice a day , morning and afternoon . 
It was on the ground floor of the building , with a separate entrance , and a weathered name plate on the door . 
Since the day when Charity had told him that she wished to succeed to Eudora Skeff's post their relations had undefinably but definitely changed . 
Lawyer Royall had kept his word . 
And he had engaged Verena Marsh to come up from Creston and do the cooking . 
Verena was a poor old widow , doddering and shiftless Charity suspected that she came for her keep . 
Mr. Royall was too close a man to give a dollar a day to a smart girl when he could get a deaf pauper for nothing . 
But at any rate , Verena was there , in the attic just over Charity , and the fact that she was deaf did not greatly trouble the young girl . 
Charity knew that what had happened on that hateful night would not happen again . 
She understood that , profoundly as she had despised Mr. Royall ever since , he despised himself still more profoundly . 
If she had asked for a woman in the house it was far less for her own defense than for his humiliation . 
She needed no one to defend her his humbled pride was her surest protection . 
He had never spoken a word of excuse or extenuation the incident was as if it had never been . 
Yet its consequences were latent in every word that he and she exchanged , in every glance they instinctively turned from each other . 
Nothing now would ever shake her rule in the red house . 
On the night of her meeting with Miss Hatchard's cousin Charity lay in bed , her bare arms clasped under her rough head , and continued to think of him . 
She supposed that he meant to spend some time in North Dormer . 
Never had her ignorance of life and literature so weighed on her as in reliving the short scene of her discomfiture . 
Then she remembered his sudden pause when he had come close to the desk and had his first look at her . 
Perhaps after all it was a mistake to wish they were blue . 
A clumsy band and button fastened her unbleached night gown about the throat . 
She undid it , freed her thin shoulders , and saw herself a bride in low necked satin , walking down an aisle with Lucius Harney . 
He would kiss her as they left the church . 
She put down the candle and covered her face with her hands as if to imprison the kiss . 
At that moment she heard Mr. Royall's step as he came up the stairs to bed , and a fierce revulsion of feeling swept over her . 
Until then she had merely despised him now deep hatred of him filled her heart . 
He became to her a horrible old man . 
The next day , when Mr. Royall came back to dinner , they faced each other in silence as usual . 
Verena's presence at the table was an excuse for their not talking , though her deafness would have permitted the freest interchange of confidences . 
But when the meal was over , and Mr. Royall rose from the table , he looked back at Charity , who had stayed to help the old woman clear away the dishes . 
I want to speak to you a minute , he said and she followed him across the passage , wondering . 
He seated himself in his black horse hair armchair , and she leaned against the window , indifferently . 
She was impatient to be gone to the library , to hunt for the book on North Dormer . 
Who says I ain't ? There's been some complaints made , it appears . 
Miss Hatchard sent for me this morning Charity's smouldering resentment broke into a blaze . 
I know ! Orma Fry , and that toad of a Targatt girl and Ben Fry , like as not . 
He's going round with her . 
The low down sneaks I always knew they'd try to have me out ! As if anybody ever came to the library , anyhow ! Somebody did yesterday , and you weren't there . 
Yesterday ? she laughed at her happy recollection . 
At what time wasn't I there yesterday , I'd like to know ? Round about four o'clock . 
She had been so steeped in the dreamy remembrance of young Harney's visit that she had forgotten having deserted her post as soon as he had left the library . 
Who came at four o'clock ? Miss Hatchard did . 
Miss Hatchard ? Why , she ain't ever been near the place since she's been lame . 
She couldn't get up the steps if she tried . 
She can be helped up , I guess . 
She was yesterday , anyhow , by the young fellow that's staying with her . 
He found you there , I understand , earlier in the afternoon and he went back and told Miss Hatchard the books were in bad shape and needed attending to . 
She got excited , and had herself wheeled straight round and when she got there the place was locked . 
So she sent for me , and told me about that , and about the other complaints . 
She claims you've neglected things , and that she's going to get a trained librarian . 
Charity had not moved while he spoke . 
Of all Mr. Royall had said she had retained only the phrase He told Miss Hatchard the books were in bad shape . 
What did she care for the other charges against her ? Malice or truth , she despised them as she despised her detractors . 
Well , I'll go , she said suddenly . 
Go where ? She heard the startled note in Mr. Royall's voice . 
Why , out of their old library straight out , and never set foot in it again . 
If Mr. Royall heard her go he made no motion to detain her his sudden rages probably made him understand the uselessness of reasoning with hers . 
She reached the brick temple , unlocked the door and entered into the glacial twilight . 
I'm glad I'll never have to sit in this old vault again when other folks are out in the sun ! she said aloud as the familiar chill took her . 
She meant to take out of the drawer her roll of lace and the library register , and go straight to Miss Hatchard to announce her resignation . 
But suddenly a great desolation overcame her , and she sat down and laid her face against the desk . 
Her heart was ravaged by life's cruelest discovery the first creature who had come toward her out of the wilderness had brought her anguish instead of joy . 
She did not cry tears came hard to her , and the storms of her heart spent themselves inwardly . 
But as she sat there in her dumb woe she felt her life to be too desolate , too ugly and intolerable . 
What have I ever done to it , that it should hurt me so ? she groaned , and pressed her fists against her lids , which were beginning to swell with weeping . 
I won't I won't go there looking like a horror ! she muttered , springing up and pushing back her hair as if it stifled her . 
She opened the drawer , dragged out the register , and turned toward the door . 
As she did so it opened , and the young man from Miss Hatchard's came in whistling . 
IV He stopped and lifted his hat with a shy smile . 
I beg your pardon , he said . 
I thought there was no one here . 
Charity stood before him , barring his way . 
The library ain't open to the public Wednesdays . 
I know it's not but my cousin gave me her key . 
Miss Hatchard's got no right to give her key to other folks , any more'n I have . 
I'm the librarian and I know the by laws . 
The young man looked profoundly surprised . 
Why , I know it is I'm so sorry if you mind my coming . 
I suppose you came to see what more you could say to set her against me ? But you needn't trouble it's my library today , but it won't be this time tomorrow . 
I'm on the way now to take her back the key and the register . 
Young Harney's face grew grave , but without betraying the consciousness of guilt she had looked for . 
I don't understand , he said . 
There must be some mistake . 
Why should I say things against you to Miss Hatchard or to anyone ? The apparent evasiveness of the reply caused Charity's indignation to overflow . 
I don't know why you should . 
I could understand Orma Fry's doing it , because she's always wanted to get me out of here ever since the first day . 
But I wouldn't let Bill Sollas from over the hill hang round here waiting for the youngest Targatt girl , because I know him . 
even if I don't know about books all I ought to . 
She stopped with a choking in her throat . 
Tremors of rage were running through her , and she steadied herself against the edge of the desk lest he should see her weakness . 
What he saw seemed to affect him deeply , for he grew red under his sunburn , and stammered out But , Miss Royall , I assure you . 
I hope I should if I knew but I don't . 
Apparently something disagreeable has happened , for which you think I'm to blame . 
But I don't know what it is , because I've been up on Eagle Ridge ever since the early morning . 
Young Harney looked sincerely concerned . 
Was that what you were told ? I don't wonder you're angry . 
The books are in bad shape , and as some are interesting it's a pity . 
I told Miss Hatchard they were suffering from dampness and lack of air and I brought her here to show her how easily the place could be ventilated . 
I also told her you ought to have some one to help you do the dusting and airing . 
Charity felt her sobs rising and tried to stifle them in words . 
I don't care what you say you told her . 
All I wanted was to put aside money enough to get away from here sometime . 
D'you suppose if it hadn't been for that I'd have kept on sitting day after day in this old vault ? Of this appeal her hearer took up only the last question . 
It is an old vault but need it be ? That's the point . 
And it's my putting the question to my cousin that seems to have been the cause of the trouble . 
But it can be ventilated after a fashion , and the sun can be let in I'll show you how if you like . 
The architect's passion for improvement had already made him lose sight of her grievance , and he lifted his stick instructively toward the cornice . 
But her silence seemed to tell him that she took no interest in the ventilation of the library , and turning back to her abruptly he held out both hands . 
Oh , what DID you do it for then ? she wailed . 
He had her hands in his , and she was feeling the smooth touch that she had imagined the day before on the hillside . 
He pressed her hands lightly and let them go . 
Why , to make things pleasanter for you here and better for the books . 
I'm sorry if my cousin twisted around what I said . 
She's excitable , and she lives on trifles I ought to have remembered that . 
Don't punish me by letting her think you take her seriously . 
She felt that if she kept up her denunciatory tone he would secretly class her with Miss Hatchard and the thought made her suddenly simple . 
It don't matter to Miss Hatchard how I take her . 
Mr. Royall says she's going to get a trained librarian and I'd sooner resign than have the village say she sent me away . 
But I'm sure she doesn't mean to send you away . 
At any rate , won't you give me the chance to find out first and let you know ? It will be time enough to resign if I'm mistaken . 
Her pride flamed into her cheeks at the suggestion of his intervening . 
I don't want anybody should coax her to keep me if I don't suit . 
I give you my word I won't do that . 
Only wait till tomorrow , will you ? He looked straight into her eyes with his shy grey glance . 
You can trust me , you know you really can . 
All the old frozen woes seemed to melt in her , and she murmured awkwardly , looking away from him Oh , I'll wait . 
V There had never been such a June in Eagle County . 
Usually it was a month of moods , with abrupt alternations of belated frost and mid summer heat this year , day followed day in a sequence of temperate beauty . 
Every morning a breeze blew steadily from the hills . 
On such an afternoon Charity Royall lay on a ridge above a sunlit hollow , her face pressed to the earth and the warm currents of the grass running through her . 
Directly in her line of vision a blackberry branch laid its frail white flowers and blue green leaves against the sky . 
Just beyond , a tuft of sweet fern uncurled between the beaded shoots of the grass , and a small yellow butterfly vibrated over them like a fleck of sunshine . 
All this bubbling of sap and slipping of sheaths and bursting of calyxes was carried to her on mingled currents of fragrance . 
Oh , don't ! she exclaimed , raising herself on her elbow and stretching out a warning hand . 
Don't what ? a hoarse voice asked above her head . 
Don't stamp on those bramble flowers , you dolt ! she retorted , springing to her knees . 
Don't you ever SEE anything , Liff Hyatt ? she assailed him , as he stood before her with the look of a man who has stirred up a wasp's nest . 
I seen you ! That's what I come down for . 
Down from where ? she questioned , stooping to gather up the petals his foot had scattered . 
He jerked his thumb toward the heights . 
Been cutting down trees for Dan Targatt . 
Charity sank back on her heels and looked at him musingly . 
She was not in the least afraid of poor Liff Hyatt , though he came from the Mountain , and some of the girls ran when they saw him . 
They won't any of 'em touch you up there , f'ever you was to come up . 
But I don't s'pose you will , he had added philosophically , looking at her new shoes , and at the red ribbon that Mrs. Royall had tied in her hair . 
Charity had , in truth , never felt any desire to visit her birthplace . 
She did not care to have it known that she was of the Mountain , and was shy of being seen in talk with Liff Hyatt . 
But today she was not sorry to have him appear . 
She continued to look up curiously at his freckled weather beaten face , with feverish hollows below the cheekbones and the pale yellow eyes of a harmless animal . 
I wonder if he's related to me ? she thought , with a shiver of disdain . 
Is there any folks living in the brown house by the swamp , up under Porcupine ? she presently asked in an indifferent tone . 
Liff Hyatt , for a while , considered her with surprise then he scratched his head and shifted his weight from one tattered sole to the other . 
There's always the same folks in the brown house , he said with his vague grin . 
They're from up your way , ain't they ? Their name's the same as mine , he rejoined uncertainly . 
Charity still held him with resolute eyes . 
See here , I want to go there some day and take a gentleman with me that's boarding with us . 
He's up in these parts drawing pictures . 
She did not offer to explain this statement . 
It was too far beyond Liff Hyatt's limitations for the attempt to be worth making . 
He wants to see the brown house , and go all over it , she pursued . 
Liff was still running his fingers perplexedly through his shock of straw colored hair . 
Is it a fellow from the city ? he asked . 
He draws pictures of things . 
He's down there now drawing the Bonner house . 
She pointed to a chimney just visible over the dip of the pasture below the wood . 
The Bonner house ? Liff echoed incredulously . 
You won't understand and it don't matter . 
All I say is he's going to the Hyatts' in a day or two . 
Liff looked more and more perplexed . 
Bash is ugly sometimes in the afternoons . 
She threw her head back , her eyes full on Hyatt's . 
I'm coming too you tell him . 
They won't none of them trouble you , the Hyatts won't . 
What d'you want a take a stranger with you though ? I've told you , haven't I ? You've got to tell Bash Hyatt . 
He looked away at the blue mountains on the horizon then his gaze dropped to the chimney top below the pasture . 
He's down there now ? Yes . 
He shifted his weight again , crossed his arms , and continued to survey the distant landscape . 
Well , so long , he said at last , inconclusively and turning away he shambled up the hillside . 
From the ledge above her , he paused to call down I wouldn't go there a Sunday then he clambered on till the trees closed in on him . 
Presently , from high overhead , Charity heard the ring of his axe . 
She lay on the warm ridge , thinking of many things that the woodsman's appearance had stirred up in her . 
She knew nothing of her early life , and had never felt any curiosity about it only a sullen reluctance to explore the corner of her memory where certain blurred images lingered . 
But all that had happened to her within the last few weeks had stirred her to the sleeping depths . 
She had become absorbingly interesting to herself , and everything that had to do with her past was illuminated by this sudden curiosity . 
She hated more than ever the fact of coming from the Mountain but it was no longer indifferent to her . 
Everything that in any way affected her was alive and vivid even the hateful things had grown interesting because they were a part of herself . 
The thought brought him back to the central point in her mind , and she strayed away from the conjectures roused by Liff Hyatt's presence . 
She scrambled to her feet , but as she did so she saw him coming up the pasture and dropped down on the grass to wait . 
When he was drawing and measuring one of his houses , as she called them , she often strayed away by herself into the woods or up the hillside . 
Now she knew the meaning of her disdains and reluctances . 
But another kind of shyness had been born in her a terror of exposing to vulgar perils the sacred treasure of her happiness . 
What she most feared was that the inevitable comments should reach Mr. Royall . 
How , she did not know and her fear was the greater because it was undefinable . 
If she had been accepting the attentions of one of the village youths she would have been less apprehensive Mr. Royall could not prevent her marrying when she chose to . 
But everybody knew that going with a city fellow was a different and less straightforward affair almost every village could show a victim of the perilous venture . 
As he approached she rose to her knees , stretching her arms above her head with the indolent gesture that was her way of expressing a profound well being . 
I'm going to take you to that house up under Porcupine , she announced . 
What house ? Oh , yes that ramshackle place near the swamp , with the gipsy looking people hanging about . 
It's curious that a house with traces of real architecture should have been built in such a place . 
But the people were a sulky looking lot do you suppose they'll let us in ? They'll do whatever I tell them , she said with assurance . 
He threw himself down beside her . 
Will they ? he rejoined with a smile . 
Well , I should like to see what's left inside the house . 
And I should like to have a talk with the people . 
Who was it who was telling me the other day that they had come down from the Mountain ? Charity shot a sideward look at him . 
It was the first time he had spoken of the Mountain except as a feature of the landscape . 
The Mountain ? I ain't afraid of the Mountain ! Her tone of defiance seemed to escape him . 
He lay breast down on the grass , breaking off sprigs of thyme and pressing them against his lips . 
Far off , above the folds of the nearer hills , the Mountain thrust itself up menacingly against a yellow sunset . 
I must go up there some day I want to see it , he continued . 
Her heart beats slackened and she turned again to examine his profile . 
It was innocent of all unfriendly intention . 
What'd you want to go up the Mountain for ? Why , it must be rather a curious place . 
There's a queer colony up there , you know sort of out laws , a little independent kingdom . 
Of course you've heard them spoken of but I'm told they have nothing to do with the people in the valleys rather look down on them , in fact . 
I suppose they're rough customers but they must have a good deal of character . 
She did not quite know what he meant by having a good deal of character but his tone was expressive of admiration , and deepened her dawning curiosity . 
It struck her now as strange that she knew so little about the Mountain . 
She had never asked , and no one had ever offered to enlighten her . 
North Dormer took the Mountain for granted , and implied its disparagement by an intonation rather than by explicit criticism . 
They seemed the clue to her own revolts and defiances , and she longed to have him tell her more . 
I don't know much about them . 
Have they always been there ? Nobody seems to know exactly how long . 
Down at Creston they told me that the first colonists are supposed to have been men who worked on the railway that was built forty or fifty years ago between Springfield and Nettleton . 
Some of them took to drink , or got into trouble with the police , and went off disappeared into the woods . 
A year or two later there was a report that they were living up on the Mountain . 
Then I suppose others joined them and children were born . 
Now they say there are over a hundred people up there . 
They seem to be quite outside the jurisdiction of the valleys . 
No school , no church and no sheriff ever goes up to see what they're about . 
But don't people ever talk of them at North Dormer ? I don't know . 
Do they ? We'll go and see , shall we ? She flushed at the suggestion , and turned her face to his . 
You never heard , I suppose I come from there . 
They brought me down when I was little . 
You ? He raised himself on his elbow , looking at her with sudden interest . 
You're from the Mountain ? How curious ! I suppose that's why you're so different . 
Her happy blood bathed her to the forehead . 
He was praising her and praising her because she came from the Mountain ! Am I. . 
different ? she triumphed , with affected wonder . 
Oh , awfully ! He picked up her hand and laid a kiss on the sunburnt knuckles . 
Come , he said , let's be off . 
He stood up and shook the grass from his loose grey clothes . 
She had remained indoors after the table had been cleared and old Verena had hobbled up to bed . 
The kitchen window was open , and Charity seated herself near it , her idle hands on her knee . 
The evening was cool and still . 
Beyond the black hills an amber west passed into pale green , and then to a deep blue in which a great star hung . 
The soft hoot of a little owl came through the dusk , and between its calls the men's voices rose and fell . 
Mr. Royall's was full of a sonorous satisfaction . 
It was a long time since he had had anyone of Lucius Harney's quality to talk to Charity divined that the young man symbolized all his ruined and unforgotten past . 
There had been no question of lodging the young man there was no room for him . 
But it appeared that he could still live at Miss Hatchard's if Mr. Royall would let him take his meals at the red house and after a day's deliberation Mr. Royall consented . 
Charity suspected him of being glad of the chance to make a little money . 
He had the reputation of being an avaricious man but she was beginning to think he was probably poorer than people knew . 
But the young man's coming had brought Mr. Royall other than pecuniary benefit . 
It gave him , for the first time in years , a man's companionship . 
Charity had only a dim understanding of her guardian's needs but she knew he felt himself above the people among whom he lived , and she saw that Lucius Harney thought him so . 
She was surprised to find how well he seemed to talk now that he had a listener who understood him and she was equally struck by young Harney's friendly deference . 
Their conversation was mostly about politics , and beyond her range but tonight it had a peculiar interest for her , for they had begun to speak of the Mountain . 
She drew back a little , lest they should see she was in hearing . 
The Mountain ? The Mountain ? she heard Mr. Royall say . 
Why , the Mountain's a blot that's what it is , sir , a blot . 
That scum up there ought to have been run in long ago and would have , if the people down here hadn't been clean scared of them . 
Why , there ain't a sheriff or a tax collector or a coroner'd durst go up there . 
When they hear of trouble on the Mountain the selectmen look the other way , and pass an appropriation to beautify the town pump . 
The only man that ever goes up is the minister , and he goes because they send down and get him whenever there's any of them dies . 
They think a lot of Christian burial on the Mountain but I never heard of their having the minister up to marry them . 
And they never trouble the Justice of the Peace either . 
They just herd together like the heathen . 
I suppose you've never been up there yourself ? he presently asked . 
Yes , I have , said Mr. Royall with a contemptuous laugh . 
The wiseacres down here told me I'd be done for before I got back but nobody lifted a finger to hurt me . 
And I'd just had one of their gang sent up for seven years too . 
You went up after that ? Yes , sir right after it . 
The fellow came down to Nettleton and ran amuck , the way they sometimes do . 
After they've done a wood cutting job they come down and blow the money in and this man ended up with manslaughter . 
I got him convicted , though they were scared of the Mountain even at Nettleton and then a queer thing happened . 
The fellow sent for me to go and see him in gaol . 
I went , and this is what he says 'The fool that defended me is a chicken livered son of a and all the rest of it , he says . 
'I've got a job to be done for me up on the Mountain , and you're the only man I seen in court that looks as if he'd do it . 
He told me he had a child up there or thought he had a little girl and he wanted her brought down and reared like a Christian . 
I was sorry for the fellow , so I went up and got the child . 
He paused , and Charity listened with a throbbing heart . 
That's the only time I ever went up the Mountain , he concluded . 
There was a moment's silence then Harney spoke . 
And the child had she no mother ? Oh , yes there was a mother . 
But she was glad enough to have her go . 
She'd have given her to anybody . 
They ain't half human up there . 
I guess the mother's dead by now , with the life she was leading . 
Anyhow , I've never heard of her from that day to this . 
My God , how ghastly , Harney murmured and Charity , choking with humiliation , sprang to her feet and ran upstairs . 
During his ten days' sojourn at North Dormer Lucius Harney had not spoken a word of love to her . 
Mr. Royall's was the only house where the young man could have been offered a decent hospitality . 
There had been nothing , therefore , in the outward course of events to raise in Charity's breast the hopes with which it trembled . 
was not unconnected with the look in his eyes when he had first paused before her in the library . 
The signs of his liking were manifest enough but it was hard to guess how much they meant , because his manner was so different from anything North Dormer had ever shown her . 
He was at once simpler and more deferential than any one she had known and sometimes it was just when he was simplest that she most felt the distance between them . 
Never had it yawned so wide as when she fled up to her room carrying with her the echo of Mr. Royall's tale . 
Her first confused thought was the prayer that she might never see young Harney again . 
It was too bitter to picture him as the detached impartial listener to such a story . 
Of all this tumult only a vague heart soreness was left when she opened her eyes the next morning . 
He had said nothing at breakfast , but when she came out in her pink dress , the basket in her hand , he looked at her with surprise . 
Where you going to ? he asked . 
Why Mr. Harney's starting earlier than usual today , she answered . 
It was the first time he had ever spoken of the young man in that tone , and Charity felt a faint chill of apprehension . 
After a moment he stood up and walked away toward the bit of ground behind the house , where the hired man was hoeing . 
Harney tied the horse to a tree stump , and they unpacked their basket under an aged walnut with a riven trunk out of which bumblebees darted . 
The sun had grown hot , and behind them was the noonday murmur of the forest . 
Summer insects danced on the air , and a flock of white butterflies fanned the mobile tips of the crimson fireweed . 
In the valley below not a house was visible it seemed as if Charity Royall and young Harney were the only living beings in the great hollow of earth and sky . 
Charity's spirits flagged and disquieting thoughts stole back on her . 
He'd better know what kind of folks I belong to , she said to herself , with a somewhat forced defiance for in reality it was shame that kept her silent . 
Suddenly she lifted her hand and pointed to the sky . 
There's a storm coming up . 
He followed her glance and smiled . 
Is it that scrap of cloud among the pines that frightens you ? It's over the Mountain and a cloud over the Mountain always means trouble . 
Oh , I don't believe half the bad things you all say of the Mountain ! But anyhow , we'll get down to the brown house before the rain comes . 
He was not far wrong , for only a few isolated drops had fallen when they turned into the road under the shaggy flank of Porcupine , and came upon the brown house . 
It stood alone beside a swamp bordered with alder thickets and tall bulrushes . 
Not another dwelling was in sight , and it was hard to guess what motive could have actuated the early settler who had made his home in so unfriendly a spot . 
Charity had picked up enough of her companion's erudition to understand what had attracted him to the house . 
and as he threw the reins on the horse's neck he said with a slight shiver of repugnance We won't stay long . 
Against the restless alders turning their white lining to the storm the house looked singularly desolate . 
At the sound of wheels a child with a tow head and pale eyes like Liff Hyatt's peered over the fence and then slipped away behind an out house . 
Harney jumped down and helped Charity out and as he did so the rain broke on them . 
Thunder rolled incessantly through the roar of the rain , and a strange glitter of light ran along the ground under the increasing blackness . 
Lucky we're here after all , Harney laughed . 
He fastened the horse under a half roofless shed , and wrapping Charity in his coat ran with her to the house . 
The boy had not reappeared , and as there was no response to their knocks Harney turned the door handle and they went in . 
There were three people in the kitchen to which the door admitted them . 
An old woman with a handkerchief over her head was sitting by the window . 
The place was bare and miserable and the air heavy with the smell of dirt and stale tobacco . 
She was not afraid for herself she knew the Hyatts would not be likely to trouble her but she was not sure how they would treat a city fellow . 
Lucius Harney would certainly have laughed at her fears . 
She turned her eyes away from him and looked at Charity . 
You're the girl from Royall's , ain't you ? The colour rose in Charity's face . 
I'm Charity Royall , she said , as if asserting her right to the name in the very place where it might have been most open to question . 
The woman did not seem to notice . 
You kin stay , she merely said then she turned away and stooped over a dish in which she was stirring something . 
Harney and Charity sat down on a bench made of a board resting on two starch boxes . 
Charity smiled , and signed to the children to come in but as soon as they saw they were discovered they slipped away on bare feet . 
It occurred to her that they were afraid of rousing the sleeping man and probably the woman shared their fear , for she moved about as noiselessly and avoided going near the stove . 
The rain continued to beat against the house , and in one or two places it sent a stream through the patched panes and ran into pools on the floor . 
As the minutes passed , and the rain still streamed against the windows , a loathing of the place and the people came over Charity . 
And then her mind travelled to Miss Hatchard's house , where all was freshness , purity and fragrance , and compared to which the red house had always seemed so poor and plain . 
This is where I belong this is where I belong , she kept repeating to herself but the words had no meaning for her . 
Every instinct and habit made her a stranger among these poor swamp people living like vermin in their lair . 
With all her soul she wished she had not yielded to Harney's curiosity , and brought him there . 
The rain had drenched her , and she began to shiver under the thin folds of her dress . 
The younger woman must have noticed it , for she went out of the room and came back with a broken tea cup which she offered to Charity . 
It was half full of whiskey , and Charity shook her head but Harney took the cup and put his lips to it . 
The sleeping man stirred , lifted his head and opened his eyes . 
They rested vacantly for a moment on Charity and Harney , and then closed again , and his head drooped but a look of anxiety came into the woman's face . 
She glanced out of the window and then came up to Harney . 
I guess you better go along now , she said . 
The young man understood and got to his feet . 
Thank you , he said , holding out his hand . 
She seemed not to notice the gesture , and turned away as they opened the door . 
The rain was still coming down , but they hardly noticed it the pure air was like balm in their faces . 
The clouds were rising and breaking , and between their edges the light streamed down from remote blue hollows . 
Harney untied the horse , and they drove off through the diminishing rain , which was already beaded with sunlight . 
For a while Charity was silent , and her companion did not speak . 
She looked timidly at his profile it was graver than usual , as though he too were oppressed by what they had seen . 
Then she broke out abruptly Those people back there are the kind of folks I come from . 
They may be my relations , for all I know . 
She did not want him to think that she regretted having told him her story . 
Poor creatures , he rejoined . 
I wonder why they came down to that fever hole . 
To better themselves ! It's worse up on the Mountain . 
Bash Hyatt married the daughter of the farmer that used to own the brown house . 
That was him by the stove , I suppose . 
Harney seemed to find nothing to say and she went on I saw you take out a dollar to give to that poor woman . 
Why did you put it back ? He reddened , and leaned forward to flick a swamp fly from the horse's neck . 
Oh , Charity It was the first time he had ever called her by her name . 
I ain't I ain't ashamed . 
They're my people , and I ain't ashamed of them , she sobbed . 
he murmured , putting his arm about her and she leaned against him and wept out her pain . 
VII SINCE her reinstatement in Miss Hatchard's favour Charity had not dared to curtail by a moment her hours of attendance at the library . 
He was careful to prosecute this inquiry on the days when the library was open to the public and Charity was therefore sure of spending part of the afternoon in his company . 
That day , for the first time since he had been boarding with them , he had failed to appear as usual at the midday meal . 
No message had come to explain his absence , and Mr. Royall , who was more than usually taciturn , had betrayed no surprise , and made no comment . 
But to Charity , in the reaction from her mood of passionate exaltation , there was something disquieting in his silence . 
It was almost as if Lucius Harney had never had a part in their lives Mr. Royall's imperturbable indifference seemed to relegate him to the domain of unreality . 
As she sat at work , she tried to shake off her disappointment at Harney's non appearing . 
She wondered what had called him to North Dormer on a weekday , and felt a little hurt that Harney should have brought him to the library . 
It presently appeared that his presence there was due to Miss Hatchard . 
He had been spending a few days at Springfield , to fill a friend's pulpit , and had been consulted by Miss Hatchard as to young Harney's plan for ventilating the Memorial . 
, wished to have Mr. Miles's opinion before deciding . 
yes , you know them , of course , she heard . 
That's a fine old house ! And Ned Cooperson has collected some really remarkable impressionist pictures . 
The names he cited were unknown to Charity . 
Yes yes the Schaefer quartette played at Lyric Hall on Saturday evening and on Monday I had the privilege of hearing them again at the Towers . 
I saw Miss Balch several times , by the way . 
Charity dropped her pencil and forgot to listen to the Targatt girl's sing song . 
I can see no objection . 
The discussion went on for some minutes , and gradually the two men moved back toward the desk . 
Mr. Miles stopped again and looked thoughtfully at Charity . 
Aren't you a little pale , my dear ? Not overworking ? Mr. Harney tells me you and Mamie are giving the library a thorough overhauling . 
He was always careful to remember his parishioners' Christian names , and at the right moment he bent his benignant spectacles on the Targatt girl . 
Then he turned to Charity . 
Don't take things hard , my dear don't take things hard . 
Come down and see Mrs. Miles and me some day at Hepburn , he said , pressing her hand and waving a farewell to Mamie Targatt . 
He went out of the library , and Harney followed him . 
Charity thought she detected a look of constraint in Harney's eyes . 
She fancied he did not want to be alone with her and with a sudden pang she wondered if he repented the tender things he had said to her the night before . 
His words had been more fraternal than lover like but she had lost their exact sense in the caressing warmth of his voice . 
Annabel Balch at a garden party at Springfield , looking extremely handsome . 
Charity understood what associations the name must have called up , and felt the uselessness of struggling against the unseen influences in Harney's life . 
Mr. Royall sat at her side , his chair tilted back , his broad black boots with side elastics resting against the lower bar of the railings . 
His rumpled grey hair stood up above his forehead like the crest of an angry bird , and the leather brown of his veined cheeks was blotched with red . 
Charity knew that those red spots were the signs of a coming explosion . 
Suddenly he said Where's supper ? Has Verena Marsh slipped up again on her soda biscuits ? Charity threw a startled glance at him . 
I presume she's waiting for Mr. Harney . 
Mr. Harney , is she ? She'd better dish up , then . 
He stood up , walked to the door , and called out , in the pitch necessary to penetrate the old woman's tympanum Get along with the supper , Verena . 
Charity was trembling with apprehension . 
Something had happened she was sure of it now and Mr. Royall knew what it was . 
But not for the world would she have gratified him by showing her anxiety . 
She took her usual place , and he seated himself opposite , and poured out a strong cup of tea before passing her the tea pot . 
Verena brought some scrambled eggs , and he piled his plate with them . 
Ain't you going to take any ? he asked . 
Charity roused herself and began to eat . 
The tone with which Mr. Royall had said He's not coming seemed to her full of an ominous satisfaction . 
She saw that he had suddenly begun to hate Lucius Harney , and guessed herself to be the cause of this change of feeling . 
She ate her supper with a studied show of indifference , but she knew that Mr. Royall was watching her and that her agitation did not escape him . 
After supper she went up to her room . 
She heard Mr. Royall cross the passage , and presently the sounds below her window showed that he had returned to the porch . 
She seated herself on her bed and began to struggle against the desire to go down and ask him what had happened . 
I'd rather die than do it , she muttered to herself . 
With a word he could have relieved her uncertainty but never would she gratify him by saying it . 
She rose and leaned out of the window . 
The twilight had deepened into night , and she watched the frail curve of the young moon dropping to the edge of the hills . 
Through the darkness she saw one or two figures moving down the road but the evening was too cold for loitering , and presently the strollers disappeared . 
Lamps were beginning to show here and there in the windows . 
For a long time she continued to lean in the window . 
But a fever of unrest consumed her , and finally she went downstairs , took her hat from its hook , and swung out of the house . 
Mr. Royall sat in the porch , Verena beside him , her old hands crossed on her patched skirt . 
But she swept on in silence , determined not to recognize his right to question her . 
At the gate she paused and looked up and down the road . 
The darkness drew her , and she thought of climbing the hill and plunging into the depths of the larch wood above the pasture . 
Then she glanced irresolutely along the street , and as she did so a gleam appeared through the spruces at Miss Hatchard's gate . 
Lucius Harney was there , then he had not gone down to Hepburn with Mr. Miles , as she had at first imagined . 
Beside that lamp he was doubtless sitting at this moment . 
To know the truth Charity had only to walk half the length of the village , and knock at the lighted window . 
She hesitated a minute or two longer , and then turned toward Miss Hatchard's . 
She walked quickly , straining her eyes to detect anyone who might be coming along the street and before reaching the Frys' she crossed over to avoid the light from their window . 
Whenever she was unhappy she felt herself at bay against a pitiless world , and a kind of animal secretiveness possessed her . 
But the street was empty , and she passed unnoticed through the gate and up the path to the house . 
Its white front glimmered indistinctly through the trees , showing only one oblong of light on the lower floor . 
She had supposed that the lamp was in Miss Hatchard's sitting room but she now saw that it shone through a window at the farther corner of the house . 
She did not know the room to which this window belonged , and she paused under the trees , checked by a sense of strangeness . 
The window opened on a narrow verandah with a trellised arch . 
She leaned close to the trellis , and parting the sprays of clematis that covered it looked into a corner of the room . 
Her heart jumped and then stood still . 
He was there , a few feet away and while her soul was tossing on seas of woe he had been quietly sitting at his drawing board . 
The sight of those two hands , moving with their usual skill and precision , woke her out of her dream . 
Charity had often noticed Harney's loving care of his drawings , and the neatness and method with which he carried on and concluded each task . 
The impatient sweeping aside of the drawing board seemed to reveal a new mood . 
The gesture suggested sudden discouragement , or distaste for his work and she wondered if he too were agitated by secret perplexities . 
Her impulse of flight was checked she stepped up on the verandah and looked into the room . 
Harney had put his elbows on the table and was resting his chin on his locked hands . 
She understood that he was preparing to leave , and that he had probably decided to go without seeing her . 
All her old resentments and rebellions flamed up , confusedly mingled with the yearning roused by Harney's nearness . 
Only a few hours earlier she had felt secure in his comprehending pity now she was flung back on herself , doubly alone after that moment of communion . 
Harney was still unaware of her presence . 
He sat without moving , moodily staring before him at the same spot in the wall paper . 
He had not even had the energy to finish his packing , and his clothes and papers lay on the floor about the portmanteau . 
Presently he unlocked his clasped hands and stood up and Charity , drawing back hastily , sank down on the step of the verandah . 
But now the face was so changed that she hardly knew it and grief at his grief gathered in her throat , rose to her eyes and ran over . 
She continued to crouch on the steps , holding her breath and stiffening herself into complete immobility . 
One motion of her hand , one tap on the pane , and she could picture the sudden change in his face . 
In every pulse of her rigid body she was aware of the welcome his eyes and lips would give her but something kept her from moving . 
It was not the fear of any sanction , human or heavenly she had never in her life been afraid . 
It was simply that she had suddenly understood what would happen if she went in . 
It was the thing that did happen between young men and girls , and that North Dormer ignored in public and snickered over on the sly . 
It was what Miss Hatchard was still ignorant of , but every girl of Charity's class knew about before she left school . 
It was what had happened to Ally Hawes's sister Julia , and had ended in her going to Nettleton , and in people's never mentioning her name . 
It did not , of course , always end so sensationally nor , perhaps , on the whole , so untragically . 
Charity had always suspected that the shunned Julia's fate might have its compensations . 
But these were not the reasons that held her back . 
But mixed with this feeling was another the wondering pride in his liking for her , the startled softness that his sympathy had put into her heart . 
Sometimes , when her youth flushed up in her , she had imagined yielding like other girls to furtive caresses in the twilight but she could not so cheapen herself to Harney . 
She did not know why he was going but since he was going she felt she must do nothing to deface the image of her that he carried away . 
If he wanted her he must seek her he must not be surprised into taking her as girls like Julia Hawes were taken . 
Once a footfall passed the gate , and she shrank back into her corner but the steps died away and left a profounder quiet . 
Her eyes were still on Harney's tormented face she felt she could not move till he moved . 
A long time passed in this strange vigil . 
Harney still lay on the bed , motionless and with fixed eyes , as though following his vision to its bitter end . 
At last he stirred and changed his attitude slightly , and Charity's heart began to tremble . 
But he only flung out his arms and sank back into his former position . 
With a deep sigh he tossed the hair from his forehead then his whole body relaxed , his head turned sideways on the pillow , and she saw that he had fallen asleep . 
The sweet expression came back to his lips , and the haggardness faded from his face , leaving it as fresh as a boy's . 
She rose and crept away . 
As she passed from under the black pall of the Norway spruces she fancied she saw two figures in the shade about the duck pond . 
She walked on , wondering whether Mr. Royall was still in the porch . 
But the porch was empty , Mr. Royall's hat hung on its peg in the passage , and the kitchen lamp had been left to light her to bed . 
She took it and went up . 
The morning hours of the next day dragged by without incident . 
Mr. Royall went out early , and did not return till Verena had set the table for the midday meal . 
When he came in he went straight to the kitchen and shouted to the old woman Ready for dinner then he turned into the dining room , where Charity was already seated . 
Harney's plate was in its usual place , but Mr. Royall offered no explanation of his absence , and Charity asked none . 
For a moment she was inclined to sneer at herself for not having used the arts that might have kept him . 
She sat at table till the meal was over , lest Mr. Royall should remark on her leaving but when he stood up she rose also , without waiting to help Verena . 
She had her foot on the stairs when he called to her to come back . 
I'm going up to lie down . 
I want you should come in here first I've got something to say to you . 
She was sure from his tone that in a moment she would learn what every nerve in her ached to know but as she turned back she made a last effort of indifference . 
Mr. Royall stood in the middle of the office , his thick eyebrows beetling , his lower jaw trembling a little . 
At first she thought he had been drinking then she saw that he was sober , but stirred by a deep and stern emotion totally unlike his usual transient angers . 
And suddenly she understood that , until then , she had never really noticed him or thought about him . 
But now she began to wonder what he was really like . 
He had grasped the back of his chair with both hands , and stood looking hard at her . 
At length he said Charity , for once let's you and me talk together like friends . 
Instantly she felt that something had happened , and that he held her in his hand . 
Where is Mr. Harney ? Why hasn't he come back ? Have you sent him away ? she broke out , without knowing what she was saying . 
The change in Mr. Royall frightened her . 
All the blood seemed to leave his veins and against his swarthy pallor the deep lines in his face looked black . 
Didn't he have time to answer some of those questions last night ? You was with him long enough ! he said . 
The taunt was so unrelated to what had been happening in her soul that she hardly understood it . 
But the instinct of self defense awoke in her . 
Who says I was with him last night ? The whole place is saying it by now . 
Then it was you that put the lie into their mouths . 
Oh , how I've always hated you ! she cried . 
She had expected a retort in kind , and it startled her to hear her exclamation sounding on through silence . 
Yes , I know , Mr. Royall said slowly . 
But that ain't going to help us much now . 
It helps me not to care a straw what lies you tell about me ! If they're lies , they're not my lies my Bible oath on that , Charity . 
I didn't know where you were I wasn't out of this house last night . 
I didn't look to see what time it was . 
Oh , my God , why did you tell me ? he broke out , dropping into his chair , his head bowed down like an old man's . 
Charity's self possession had returned with the sense of her danger . 
His face had grown quiet and almost gentle , as she remembered seeing it sometimes when she was a little girl , before Mrs. Royall died . 
Don't let's go on like this , Charity . 
It can't do any good to either of us . 
You were seen going into that fellow's house . 
you were seen coming out of it . 
I've watched this thing coming , and I've tried to stop it . 
As God sees me , I have . 
Ah , it WAS you , then ? I knew it was you that sent him away ! He looked at her in surprise . 
Didn't he tell you so ? I thought he understood . 
He spoke slowly , with difficult pauses , I didn't name you to him I'd have cut my hand off sooner . 
I just told him I couldn't spare the horse any longer and that the cooking was getting too heavy for Verena . 
I guess he's the kind that's heard the same thing before . 
Anyhow , he took it quietly enough . 
He said his job here was about done , anyhow and there didn't another word pass between us . 
If he told you otherwise he told you an untruth . 
Charity listened in a cold trance of anger . 
It was nothing to her what the village said . 
but all this fingering of her dreams ! I've told you he didn't tell me anything . 
I didn't speak with him last night . 
You didn't speak with him ? No. . 
It's not that I care what any of you say . 
but you may as well know . 
Things ain't between us the way you think . 
and the other people in this place . 
So I went there last night to find out what you'd said to him that's all . 
Mr. Royall drew a heavy breath . 
But , then if he wasn't there , what were you doing there all that time ? Charity , for pity's sake , tell me . 
I've got to know , to stop their talking . 
This pathetic abdication of all authority over her did not move her she could feel only the outrage of his interference . 
She felt her voice breaking , and gathered it up in a last defiance . 
As long as I live I'll never forgive you ! she cried . 
Mr. Royall made no answer . 
He sat and pondered with sunken head , his veined hands clasped about the arms of his chair . 
Age seemed to have come down on him as winter comes on the hills after a storm . 
At length he looked up . 
Charity , you say you don't care but you're the proudest girl I know , and the last to want people to talk against you . 
You know there's always eyes watching you you're handsomer and smarter than the rest , and that's enough . 
But till lately you've never given them a chance . 
Now they've got it , and they're going to use it . 
I believe what you say , but they won't . 
It was Mrs. Tom Fry seen you going in . 
and two or three of them watched for you to come out again . 
You've been with the fellow all day long every day since he come here . 
and I'm a lawyer , and I know how hard slander dies . 
He paused , but she stood motionless , without giving him any sign of acquiescence or even of attention . 
He's a pleasant fellow to talk to I liked having him here myself . 
The young men up here ain't had his chances . 
But there's one thing as old as the hills and as plain as daylight if he'd wanted you the right way he'd have said so . 
It seemed to her that nothing could exceed the bitterness of hearing such words from such lips . 
Mr. Royall rose from his seat . 
See here , Charity Royall I had a shameful thought once , and you've made me pay for it . 
Isn't that score pretty near wiped out ? . 
There's a streak in me I ain't always master of but I've always acted straight to you but that once . 
And you've known I would you've trusted me . 
For all your sneers and your mockery you've always known I loved you the way a man loves a decent woman . 
I'm a good many years older than you , but I'm head and shoulders above this place and everybody in it , and you know that too . 
I slipped up once , but that's no reason for not starting again . 
If you'll come with me I'll do it . 
If you'll marry me we'll leave here and settle in some big town , where there's men , and business , and things doing . 
It's not too late for me to find an opening . 
I can see it by the way folks treat me when I go down to Hepburn or Nettleton . 
Nothing in his appeal reached her heart , and she thought only of words to wound and wither . 
But a growing lassitude restrained her . 
What did anything matter that he was saying ? She saw the old life closing in on her , and hardly heeded his fanciful picture of renewal . 
Charity Charity say you'll do it , she heard him urge , all his lost years and wasted passion in his voice . 
Oh , what's the use of all this ? When I leave here it won't be with you . 
She moved toward the door as she spoke , and he stood up and placed himself between her and the threshold . 
He seemed suddenly tall and strong , as though the extremity of his humiliation had given him new vigour . 
That's all , is it ? It's not much . 
He leaned against the door , so towering and powerful that he seemed to fill the narrow room . 
Well , then look here . 
You're right I've no claim on you why should you look at a broken man like me ? You want the other fellow . 
and I don't blame you . 
You picked out the best when you seen it . 
well , that was always my way . 
He fixed his stern eyes on her , and she had the sense that the struggle within him was at its highest . 
Do you want him to marry you ? he asked . 
Do you want him to say ? I'll have him here in an hour if you do . 
I ain't been in the law thirty years for nothing . 
He's hired Carrick Fry's team to take him to Hepburn , but he ain't going to start for another hour . 
And I can put things to him so he won't be long deciding . 
He's soft I could see that . 
I don't say you won't be sorry afterward but , by God , I'll give you the chance to be , if you say so . 
She heard him out in silence , too remote from all he was feeling and saying for any sally of scorn to relieve her . 
As she listened , there flitted through her mind the vision of Liff Hyatt's muddy boot coming down on the white bramble flowers . 
The same thing had happened now something transient and exquisite had flowered in her , and she had stood by and seen it trampled to earth . 
I don't want any chance you can give me I'm glad he's going away , she said . 
He kept his place a moment longer , his hand on the door knob . 
She made no answer , and he turned the knob and went out . 
She heard him fumble with the latch of the front door , and saw him walk down the steps . 
He passed out of the gate , and his figure , stooping and heavy , receded slowly up the street . 
For a while she remained where he had left her . 
She went to the front door , and as she did so Lucius Harney opened it . 
He looked graver and less confident than usual , and for a moment or two neither of them spoke . 
Then he held out his hand . 
Are you going out ? he asked . 
She led the way into the dining room , and they sat down on opposite sides of the table , the cruet stand and japanned bread basket between them . 
He had never seemed so remote as at the moment when that vision flashed through her mind . 
I presume you found your work was over quicker than what you expected , she said . 
Well , yes that is , no there are plenty of things I should have liked to do . 
But my holiday's limited and now that Mr. Royall needs the horse for himself it's rather difficult to find means of getting about . 
There ain't any too many teams for hire around here , she acquiesced and there was another silence . 
These days here have been awfully pleasant I wanted to thank you for making them so , he continued , his colour rising . 
She could not think of any reply , and he went on You've been wonderfully kind to me , and I wanted to tell you . 
I wish I could think of you as happier , less lonely . 
Things are sure to change for you by and by . 
Things don't change at North Dormer people just get used to them . 
The answer seemed to break up the order of his prearranged consolations , and he sat looking at her uncertainly . 
Then he said , with his sweet smile That's not true of you . 
The smile was like a knife thrust through her heart everything in her began to tremble and break loose . 
She felt her tears run over , and stood up . 
Well , good bye , she said . 
She was aware of his taking her hand , and of feeling that his touch was lifeless . 
He turned away , and stopped on the threshold . 
You'll say good bye for me to Verena ? She heard the closing of the outer door and the sound of his quick tread along the path . 
The latch of the gate clicked after him . 
The next morning when she arose in the cold dawn and opened her shutters she saw a freckled boy standing on the other side of the road and looking up at her . 
When he saw her he crossed over and leaned against the gate unconcernedly . 
There was no one stirring in the house , and she threw a shawl over her night gown and ran down and let herself out . 
She took it out and hastened back to her room . 
The envelope bore her name , and inside was a leaf torn from a pocket diary . 
DEAR CHARITY I can't go away like this . 
I am staying for a few days at Creston River . 
Will you come down and meet me at Creston pool ? I will wait for you till evening . 
IX CHARITY sat before the mirror trying on a hat which Ally Hawes , with much secrecy , had trimmed for her . 
It was of white straw , with a drooping brim and cherry coloured lining that made her face glow like the inside of the shell on the parlour mantelpiece . 
I look awful , don't I ? she said at last with a happy sigh . 
Ally smiled and took back the hat . 
I'll stitch the roses on right here , so's you can put it away at once . 
Charity laughed , and ran her fingers through her rough dark hair . 
She knew that Harney liked to see its reddish edges ruffled about her forehead and breaking into little rings at the nape . 
She sat down on her bed and watched Ally stoop over the hat with a careful frown . 
Don't you ever feel like going down to Nettleton for a day ? she asked . 
Ally shook her head without looking up . 
No , I always remember that awful time I went down with Julia to that doctor's . 
Oh , Ally I can't help it . 
The house is on the corner of Wing Street and Lake Avenue . 
There's a big black sign with gold letters all across the front 'Private Consultations . 
She came as near as anything to dying . 
Poor Julia ! Charity sighed from the height of her purity and her security . 
She had a friend whom she trusted and who respected her . 
She was going with him to spend the next day the Fourth of July at Nettleton . 
Charity slipped down from the bed , and stretched out her hands . 
Is it sewed ? Let me try it on again . 
She put the hat on , and smiled at her image . 
The thought of Julia had vanished . 
The next morning she was up before dawn , and saw the yellow sunrise broaden behind the hills , and the silvery luster preceding a hot day tremble across the sleeping fields . 
Her plans had been made with great care . 
Besides , if it were she would not greatly care . 
Whenever she was with Lucius Harney she would have liked some impenetrable mountain mist to hide her . 
Harney at first had been rather lukewarm about the trip . 
She understood why he was not more eager he must have seen sights beside which even a Fourth of July at Nettleton would seem tame . 
The only cloud on the prospect was the fact that the shops would be closed but she hoped he would take her back another day , when they were open . 
She started out unnoticed in the early sunlight , slipping through the kitchen while Verena bent above the stove . 
The freckled boy who had brought her the note two weeks earlier was to wait with the buggy at Hepburn till their return . 
He perched at Charity's feet , his legs dangling between the wheels , and they could not say much because of his presence . 
But it happened that he had found the right word , which was one of simple friendship . 
His tone had instantly justified her , and put her guardian in the wrong . 
When they took leave of each other she promised to continue to be his guide and during the fortnight which followed they roamed the hills in happy comradeship . 
At last the train rumbled in , and engulfed the waiting multitude . 
The haze of the morning had become a sort of clear tremor over everything , like the colourless vibration about a flame and the opulent landscape seemed to droop under it . 
But to Charity the heat was a stimulant it enveloped the whole world in the same glow that burned at her heart . 
Now and then a lurch of the train flung her against Harney , and through her thin muslin she felt the touch of his sleeve . 
She steadied herself , their eyes met , and the flaming breath of the day seemed to enclose them . 
The noise and colour of this holiday vision seemed to transform Nettleton into a metropolis . 
Even the shops that were closed offered , through wide expanses of plate glass , hints of hidden riches . 
In some , waves of silk and ribbon broke over shores of imitation moss from which ravishing hats rose like tropical orchids . 
Presently Harney found that his watch had stopped , and turned in at a small jeweller's shop which chanced to still be open . 
She had never seen jewellry so near by , and she longed to lift the glass lid and plunge her hand among the shining treasures . 
But already Harney's watch was repaired , and he laid his hand on her arm and drew her from her dream . 
Which do you like best ? he asked leaning over the counter at her side . 
She pointed to a gold lily of the valley with white flowers . 
She coloured at her want of discrimination . 
It's so lovely I guess I was afraid to look at it , she said . 
She stood staring down a row of pink gramophone throats till he rejoined her and slipped his arm through hers . 
You mustn't be afraid of looking at the blue pin any longer , because it belongs to you , he said and she felt a little box being pressed into her hand . 
Her heart gave a leap of joy , but it reached her lips only in a shy stammer . 
A little farther down the street they turned in at a glass doorway opening on a shining hall with a mahogany staircase , and brass cages in its corners . 
Her spirit sank a little at the sight of the slim waisted waitresses in black , with bewitching mob caps on their haughty heads , who were moving disdainfully between the tables . 
Not f'r another hour , one of them dropped to Harney in passing and he stood doubtfully glancing about him . 
Oh , well , we can't stay sweltering here , he decided let's try somewhere else and with a sense of relief Charity followed him from that scene of inhospitable splendour . 
He leaned back , smoking his cigar , patting the dog , and stirring the coffee that steamed in their chipped cups . 
It's the real thing , you know , he explained and Charity hastily revised her previous conception of the beverage . 
After that , for a while , everything was merged in her brain in swimming circles of heat and blinding alternations of light and darkness . 
Presently the thought of the cool trolley run to the Lake grew irresistible , and they struggled out of the theatre . 
Before Charity knew what was happening , Harney had waved a hand , and they were climbing in . 
Merkle Private Consultations at all hours . 
Lady Attendants , she read and suddenly she remembered Ally Hawes's words The house was at the corner of Wing Street and Lake Avenue . 
there's a big black sign across the front . 
Through all the heat and the rapture a shiver of cold ran over her . 
X THE Lake at last a sheet of shining metal brooded over by drooping trees . 
Charity and Harney had secured a boat and , getting away from the wharves and the refreshment booths , they drifted idly along , hugging the shadow of the shore . 
Where the sun struck the water its shafts flamed back blindingly at the heat veiled sky and the least shade was black by contrast . 
They rounded a point at the farther end of the Lake , and entering an inlet pushed their bow against a protruding tree trunk . 
A green veil of willows overhung them . 
Beyond the trees , wheat fields sparkled in the sun and all along the horizon the clear hills throbbed with light . 
Charity leaned back in the stern , and Harney unshipped the oars and lay in the bottom of the boat without speaking . 
She was still thinking of the ten dollars he had handed to the driver of the run about . 
It had given them twenty minutes of pleasure , and it seemed unimaginable that anyone should be able to buy amusement at that rate . 
But she did not know why the thought had occurred to her . 
Harney would never buy her an engagement ring they were friends and comrades , but no more . 
He had been perfectly fair to her he had never said a word to mislead her . 
She wondered what the girl was like whose hand was waiting for his ring . 
Boats were beginning to thicken on the Lake and the clang of incessantly arriving trolleys announced the return of the crowds from the ball field . 
The shadows lengthened across the pearl grey water and two white clouds near the sun were turning golden . 
On the opposite shore men were hammering hastily at a wooden scaffolding in a field . 
Charity asked what it was for . 
I suppose there'll be a big show . 
Harney looked at her and a smile crept into his moody eyes . 
Have you never seen any good fireworks ? Miss Hatchard always sends up lovely rockets on the Fourth , she answered doubtfully . 
Oh his contempt was unbounded . 
I mean a big performance like this , illuminated boats , and all the rest . 
She flushed at the picture . 
Do they send them up from the Lake , too ? Rather . 
Didn't you notice that big raft we passed ? It's wonderful to see the rockets completing their orbits down under one's feet . 
She said nothing , and he put the oars into the rowlocks . 
If we stay we'd better go and pick up something to eat . 
But how can we get back afterwards ? she ventured , feeling it would break her heart if she missed it . 
He consulted a time table , found a ten o'clock train and reassured her . 
The moon rises so late that it will be dark by eight , and we'll have over an hour of it . 
Twilight fell , and lights began to show along the shore . 
The trolleys roaring out from Nettleton became great luminous serpents coiling in and out among the trees . 
The wooden eating houses at the Lake's edge danced with lanterns , and the dusk echoed with laughter and shouts and the clumsy splashing of oars . 
Harney and Charity had found a table in the corner of a balcony built over the Lake , and were patiently awaiting an unattainable chowder . 
Close under them the water lapped the piles , agitated by the evolutions of a little white steamboat trellised with coloured globes which was to run passengers up and down the Lake . 
It was already black with them as it sheered off on its first trip . 
Suddenly Charity heard a woman's laugh behind her . 
The sound was familiar , and she turned to look . 
The girl in the lead was the one who had laughed . 
She wore a large hat with a long white feather , and from under its brim her painted eyes looked at Charity with amused recognition . 
Say ! if this ain't like Old Home Week , she remarked to the girl at her elbow and giggles and glances passed between them . 
Charity knew at once that the girl with the white feather was Julia Hawes . 
Charity flushed to the forehead and looked away . 
She felt herself humiliated by Julia's sneer , and vexed that the mockery of such a creature should affect her . 
She trembled lest Harney should notice that the noisy troop had recognized her but they found no table free , and passed on tumultuously . 
Presently there was a soft rush through the air and a shower of silver fell from the blue evening sky . 
In another direction , pale Roman candles shot up singly through the trees , and a fire haired rocket swept the horizon like a portent . 
Between these intermittent flashes the velvet curtains of the darkness were descending , and in the intervals of eclipse the voices of the crowds seemed to sink to smothered murmurs . 
Charity and Harney , dispossessed by newcomers , were at length obliged to give up their table and struggle through the throng about the boat landings . 
The seats were at the end of a row , one above the other . 
Charity had taken off her hat to have an uninterrupted view and whenever she leaned back to follow the curve of some dishevelled rocket she could feel Harney's knees against her head . 
After a while the scattered fireworks ceased . 
A longer interval of darkness followed , and then the whole night broke into flower . 
Now and then there came a lull , and a wave of moonlight swept the Lake . 
In a flash it revealed hundreds of boats , steel dark against lustrous ripples then it withdrew as if with a furling of vast translucent wings . 
Charity's heart throbbed with delight . 
It was as if all the latent beauty of things had been unveiled to her . 
Now now ! the same voice said excitedly and Charity , grasping the hat on her knee , crushed it tight in the effort to restrain her rapture . 
For a moment the night seemed to grow more impenetrably black then a great picture stood out against it like a constellation . 
A long Oh h h burst from the spectators the stand creaked and shook with their blissful trepidations . 
Oh h h , Charity gasped she had forgotten where she was , had at last forgotten even Harney's nearness . 
She seemed to have been caught up into the stars . 
The picture vanished and darkness came down . 
In the obscurity she felt her head clasped by two hands her face was drawn backward , and Harney's lips were pressed on hers . 
With sudden vehemence he wound his arms about her , holding her head against his breast while she gave him back his kisses . 
An unknown Harney had revealed himself , a Harney who dominated her and yet over whom she felt herself possessed of a new mysterious power . 
But the crowd was beginning to move , and he had to release her . 
Come , he said in a confused voice . 
He scrambled over the side of the stand , and holding up his arm caught her as she sprang to the ground . 
Come , he repeated , we must try to make the trolley . 
He drew her along , and she followed , still in her dream . 
They walked as if they were one , so isolated in ecstasy that the people jostling them on every side seemed impalpable . 
But when they reached the terminus the illuminated trolley was already clanging on its way , its platforms black with passengers . 
The cars waiting behind it were as thickly packed and the throng about the terminus was so dense that it seemed hopeless to struggle for a place . 
Last trip up the Lake , a megaphone bellowed from the wharf and the lights of the little steam boat came dancing out of the darkness . 
No use waiting here shall we run up the Lake ? Harney suggested . 
They pushed their way back to the edge of the water just as the gang plank lowered from the white side of the boat . 
As she stepped from the gang plank she stopped short , her dark ringed eyes darting malice . 
Like the young men of the party , he wore a secret society emblem in the buttonhole of his black frock coat . 
His head was covered by a new Panama hat , and his narrow black tie , half undone , dangled down on his rumpled shirt front . 
His face , a livid brown , with red blotches of anger and lips sunken in like an old man's , was a lamentable ruin in the searching glare . 
He had seen Charity at once , and his glance passed slowly from her to Harney , whose arm was still about her . 
He stood staring at them , and trying to master the senile quiver of his lips then he drew himself up with the tremulous majesty of drunkenness , and stretched out his arm . 
You whore you damn bare headed whore , you ! he enunciated slowly . 
There was a scream of tipsy laughter from the party , and Charity involuntarily put her hands to her head . 
The picture filled her with shame . 
Oh she said in a gasp of misery and releasing herself from Harney's arm she went straight up to Mr. Royall . 
At length his twitching lips parted . 
I said , 'You damn whore ! he repeated with precision , steadying himself on Julia's shoulder . 
Charity found herself clinging to Harney's arm and sobbing desperately . 
Mr. Royall had disappeared , and in the distance she heard the receding sound of Julia's laugh . 
The boat , laden to the taffrail , was puffing away on her last trip . 
XI AT two o'clock in the morning the freckled boy from Creston stopped his sleepy horse at the door of the red house , and Charity got out . 
Harney had taken leave of her at Creston River , charging the boy to drive her home . 
The full moon hung over North Dormer , whitening the mist that filled the hollows between the hills and floated transparently above the fields . 
Charity stood a moment at the gate , looking out into the waning night . 
She watched the boy drive off , his horse's head wagging heavily to and fro then she went around to the kitchen door and felt under the mat for the key . 
She found it , unlocked the door and went in . 
The kitchen was dark , but she discovered a box of matches , lit a candle and went upstairs . 
Mr. Royall's door , opposite hers , stood open on his unlit room evidently he had not come back . 
She went into her room , bolted her door and began slowly to untie the ribbon about her waist , and to take off her dress . 
Under the bed she saw the paper bag in which she had hidden her new hat from inquisitive eyes . 
She dressed and went down to the kitchen . 
Verena was there alone she glanced at Charity tranquilly , with her old deaf looking eyes . 
There was no sign of Mr. Royall about the house and the hours passed without his reappearing . 
Charity had gone up to her room , and sat there listlessly , her hands on her lap . 
Puffs of sultry air fanned her dimity window curtains and flies buzzed stiflingly against the bluish panes . 
The sun turned and left her room , and Charity seated herself in the window , gazing down the village street through the half opened shutters . 
She was roused from her apathy by seeing Ally Hawes come out of the Frys' gate and walk slowly toward the red house with her uneven limping step . 
At the sight Charity recovered her severed contact with reality . 
What had been a feverish nightmare became a cold and unescapable fact . 
Poor Ally , at that moment , represented North Dormer , with all its mean curiosities , its furtive malice , its sham unconsciousness of evil . 
The story , exaggerated and distorted , was probably already on its way to North Dormer . 
Suddenly it became clear that flight , and instant flight , was the only thing conceivable . 
The longing to escape , to get away from familiar faces , from places where she was known , had always been strong in her in moments of distress . 
She had a childish belief in the miraculous power of strange scenes and new faces to transform her life and wipe out bitter memories . 
But such impulses were mere fleeting whims compared to the cold resolve which now possessed her . 
She would not have dared to wear it openly at North Dormer , but now she fastened it on her bosom as if it were a talisman to protect her in her flight . 
These preparations had taken but a few minutes , and when they were finished Ally Hawes was still at the Frys' corner talking to old Mrs. Sollas . 
She had said to herself , as she always said in moments of revolt I'll go to the Mountain I'll go back to my own folks . 
She had never really meant it before but now , as she considered her case , no other course seemed open . 
At the moment she had found a vague comfort in the assurance but in the desolate lucidity of the hours that followed she had come to see the impossibility of meeting him again . 
Her dream of comradeship was over and the scene on the wharf vile and disgraceful as it had been had after all shed the light of truth on her minute of madness . 
It was as if her guardian's words had stripped her bare in the face of the grinning crowd and proclaimed to the world the secret admonitions of her conscience . 
She did not think these things out clearly she simply followed the blind propulsion of her wretchedness . 
She did not want , ever again , to see anyone she had known above all , she did not want to see Harney . 
She climbed the hill path behind the house and struck through the woods by a short cut leading to the Creston road . 
But there was no sign of him , and she had almost reached the branch road when she saw the flanks of a large white tent projecting through the trees by the roadside . 
Sister , your Saviour knows everything . 
Won't you come in and lay your guilt before Him ? he asked insinuatingly , putting his hand on her arm . 
Charity started back and flushed . 
For a moment she thought the evangelist must have heard a report of the scene at Nettleton then she saw the absurdity of the supposition . 
But she had jerked her arm out of his hold , and was running up the branch road , trembling with the fear of meeting a familiar face . 
Presently she was out of sight of the village , and climbing into the heart of the forest . 
It was a little deserted house on a slope in one of the lonely rifts of the hills . 
She had seen it once , years before , when she had gone on a nutting expedition to the grove of walnuts below it . 
She was growing faint and tired , for she had eaten nothing since morning , and was not used to walking so far . 
Her head felt light and she sat down for a moment by the roadside . 
Where were you going ? Had you forgotten that I was coming ? he continued , trying to draw her to him but she shrank from his embrace . 
I was going away I don't want to see you I want you should leave me alone , she broke out wildly . 
He looked at her and his face grew grave , as though the shadow of a premonition brushed it . 
Going away from me , Charity ? From everybody . 
I want you should leave me . 
He stood glancing doubtfully up and down the lonely forest road that stretched away into sun flecked distances . 
Where were you going ? Home . 
Home this way ? She threw her head back defiantly . 
To my home up yonder to the Mountain . 
As she spoke she became aware of a change in his face . 
He caught her hands with a laugh . 
How do you suppose I found you ? he said gaily . 
He drew out the little packet of his letters and flourished them before her bewildered eyes . 
He drew back , holding her at arm's length , and scrutinizing her troubled face with the minute searching gaze of his short sighted eyes . 
He wound his fingers through hers . 
Come let's walk a little . 
I want to talk to you . 
There's so much to say . 
But he had turned , and was drawing her back along the road by which she had come . 
She stiffened herself and stopped short . 
I won't go back , she said . 
They looked at each other a moment in silence then he answered gently Very well let's go the other way , then . 
He took one of the hands that hung by her side and pressed his lips to the palm . 
Slender pilasters and an intricate fan light framed the opening where the door had hung and the door itself lay rotting in the grass , with an old apple tree fallen across it . 
Inside , also , wind and weather had blanched everything to the same wan silvery tint the house was as dry and pure as the interior of a long empty shell . 
Harney had found an old bench at the back door and dragged it into the house . 
Charity sat on it , leaning her head against the wall in a state of drowsy lassitude . 
Outside , the afternoon shadows were lengthening across the grass , and through the empty window frame that faced her she saw the Mountain thrusting its dark mass against a sultry sunset . 
It was time to go . 
She stood up , and he sprang to his feet also , and passed his arm through hers with an air of authority . 
Now , Charity , you're coming back with me . 
She looked at him and shook her head . 
I ain't ever going back . 
What don't I know ? She was silent , and he continued What happened on the wharf was horrible it's natural you should feel as you do . 
But it doesn't make any real difference you can't be hurt by such things . 
You must try to forget . 
And you must try to understand that men . 
He coloured a little at the retort , as though it had touched him in a way she did not suspect . 
you must know one has to make allowances . 
I know all that , too . 
I've seen him so before . 
But he wouldn't have dared speak to me that way if he hadn't . 
Hadn't what ? What do you mean ? Hadn't wanted me to be like those other girls . 
She lowered her voice and looked away from him . 
So's 't he wouldn't have to go out . 
For a moment he did not seem to seize her meaning then his face grew dark . 
The damned hound ! The villainous low hound ! His wrath blazed up , crimsoning him to the temples . 
I never dreamed good God , it's too vile , he broke off , as if his thoughts recoiled from the discovery . 
I won't never go back there , she repeated doggedly . 
I know the way you must feel about me , she broke out , . 
But once more , as she spoke , she became aware that he was no longer listening . 
Kiss me again like last night , he said , pushing her hair back as if to draw her whole face up into his kiss . 
North Dormer was preparing for its Old Home Week . 
Miss Hatchard would be heard , tapping across the hall on her crutches . 
Fry this is Miss Orma Fry sewing the stars on the drapery for the organ loft . 
and this is Miss Ally Hawes , our cleverest needle woman . 
and Miss Charity Royall making our garlands of evergreen . 
One of the first results of the Old Home Week agitation had , in fact , been the reappearance of Lucius Harney in the village street . 
Soon after Miss Hatchard's return , however , he came back to his old quarters in her house , and began to take a leading part in the planning of the festivities . 
This peroration usually carried her half way back across the hall , leaving the girls to return to their interrupted activities . 
The day on which Charity Royall was weaving hemlock garlands for the procession was the last before the celebration . 
In spirit she was still almost unconscious of the pleasant stir about her . 
She had come back there because Harney , after appearing to agree to the impossibility of her doing so , had ended by persuading her that any other course would be madness . 
She had nothing further to fear from Mr. Royall . 
Of this she had declared herself sure , though she had failed to add , in his exoneration , that he had twice offered to make her his wife . 
Her hatred of him made it impossible , at the moment , for her to say anything that might partly excuse him in Harney's eyes . 
Harney , however , once satisfied of her security , had found plenty of reasons for urging her to return . 
The first , and the most unanswerable , was that she had nowhere else to go . 
But the one on which he laid the greatest stress was that flight would be equivalent to avowal . 
Seekers after motives could hardly fail to draw an unkind conclusion . 
People would say that Mr. Royall had insulted his ward to justify himself , and the sordid tale would fall into its place in the chronicle of his obscure debaucheries . 
Charity saw the force of the argument but if she acquiesced it was not so much because of that as because it was Harney's wish . 
Since that evening in the deserted house she could imagine no reason for doing or not doing anything except the fact that Harney wished or did not wish it . 
All her tossing contradictory impulses were merged in a fatalistic acceptance of his will . 
The hemlock garland she was wearing fell to her knees and she sat in a kind of trance . 
It was so manifestly absurd that Miss Hatchard should talk of Harney in that familiar possessive way , as if she had any claim on him , or knew anything about him . 
The room in which the girls sat was the one which had been Harney's bedroom . 
The table at which Harney had sat was the one about which the girls were gathered and her own seat was near the bed on which she had seen him lying . 
Sometimes , when the others were not looking , she bent over as if to pick up something , and laid her cheek for a moment against the pillow . 
Toward sunset the girls disbanded . 
Their work was done , and the next morning at daylight the draperies and garlands were to be nailed up , and the illuminated scrolls put in place in the Town Hall . 
The first guests were to drive over from Hepburn in time for the midday banquet under a tent in Miss Hatchard's field and after that the ceremonies were to begin . 
Charity had slipped off among the first but at the gate she heard Ally Hawes calling after her , and reluctantly turned . 
Will you come over now and try on your dress ? Ally asked , looking at her with wistful admiration . 
I want to be sure the sleeves don't ruck up the same as they did yesterday . 
Charity gazed at her with dazzled eyes . 
Oh , it's lovely , she said , and hastened away without listening to Ally's protest . 
She sped up the street to the library , of which she had the key about her neck . 
From the passage at the back she dragged forth a bicycle , and guided it to the edge of the street . 
A rough door made of boards hung in the kitchen doorway , and pushing it open she entered a room furnished in primitive camping fashion . 
The room was empty , and leaning her bicycle against the house Charity clambered up the slope and sat down on a rock under an old apple tree . 
The air was perfectly still , and from where she sat she would be able to hear the tinkle of a bicycle bell a long way down the road . 
She was always glad when she got to the little house before Harney . 
Everything unrelated to the hours spent in that tranquil place was as faint as the remembrance of a dream . 
The only reality was the wondrous unfolding of her new self , the reaching out to the light of all her contracted tendrils . 
She had always thought of love as something confused and furtive , and he made it as bright and open as the summer air . 
And in the afternoon Charity came to him . 
She did not care she felt him to be so powerless that if he had questioned her she would probably have told him the truth . 
But they had never spoken to each other since the night on the wharf at Nettleton . 
He had returned to North Dormer only on the third day after that encounter , arriving just as Charity and Verena were sitting down to supper . 
After that he formed the habit of talking loudly and genially to Verena whenever Charity was in the room but otherwise there was no apparent change in their relations . 
Nothing else mattered , neither the good nor the bad , or what might have seemed so before she knew him . 
Behind the swarthy Mountain the sun had gone down in waveless gold . 
From a pasture up the slope a tinkle of cow bells sounded a puff of smoke hung over the farm in the valley , trailed on the pure air and was gone . 
She wondered if some day she would sit in that same place and watch in vain for her lover . 
His bicycle bell sounded down the lane , and in a minute she was at the gate and his eyes were laughing in hers . 
They walked back through the long grass , and pushed open the door behind the house . 
The room at first seemed quite dark and they had to grope their way in hand in hand . 
Through the window frame the sky looked light by contrast , and above the black mass of asters in the earthen jar one white star glimmered like a moth . 
He had his arms about her , and his kisses were in her hair and on her lips . 
Under his touch things deep down in her struggled to the light and sprang up like flowers in sunshine . 
She twisted her fingers into his , and they sat down side by side on the improvised couch . 
He continued , now , to talk to her volubly and gaily , deploring his lateness , grumbling at the demands on his time , and good humouredly mimicking Miss Hatchard's benevolent agitation . 
She hurried off Miles to ask Mr. Royall to speak at the Town Hall tomorrow I didn't know till it was done . 
Charity was silent , and he added After all , perhaps it's just as well . 
No one else could have done it . 
Charity made no answer She did not care what part her guardian played in the morrow's ceremonies . 
Like all the other figures peopling her meagre world he had grown non existent to her . 
She had even put off hating him . 
Tomorrow I shall only see you from far off , Harney continued . 
But in the evening there'll be the dance in the Town Hall . 
Her heart gave a frightened jerk . 
He laughed and took her in his arms . 
Side by side they sped back along the dark wood road to the village . 
They were later than usual , and instead of taking the bicycle to the library she propped it against the back of the wood shed and entered the kitchen of the red house . 
Charity nodded her thanks , and sitting down , fell hungrily upon her piece of pie and emptied the glass . 
Her face burned with her quick flight through the night , and her eyes were dazzled by the twinkle of the kitchen lamp . 
She felt like a night bird suddenly caught and caged . 
He ain't come back since supper , Verena said . 
He's down to the Hall . 
Her soul was still winging through the forest . 
She washed her plate and tumbler , and then felt her way up the dark stairs . 
When she opened her door a wonder arrested her . 
Charity stood gazing at all the outspread whiteness . 
It recalled a vision that had come to her in the night after her first meeting with Harney . 
She no longer had such visions . 
warmer splendours had displaced them . 
Charity took up the satin shoes and looked at them curiously . 
By day , no doubt , they would appear a little worn , but in the moonlight they seemed carved of ivory . 
She sat down on the floor to try them on , and they fitted her perfectly , though when she stood up she lurched a little on the high heels . 
She looked down at her feet , which the graceful mould of the slippers had marvellously arched and narrowed . 
She had never seen such shoes before , even in the shop windows at Nettleton . 
yes , once , she had noticed a pair of the same shape on Annabel Balch . 
A blush of mortification swept over her . 
As she stood there , staring down moodily at her feet , she heard the triple click click click of a bicycle bell under her window . 
It was Harney's secret signal as he passed on his way home . 
She stumbled to the window on her high heels , flung open the shutters and leaned out . 
XIII THE Town Hall was crowded and exceedingly hot . 
He prayed energetically and briefly and then retired , and a fierce nod from Lambert Sollas warned the girls that they were to follow at once with Home , Sweet Home . 
It was a joy to Charity to sing it seemed as though , for the first time , her secret rapture might burst from her and flash its defiance at the world . 
He passed close to Charity , and she noticed that his gravely set face wore the look of majesty that used to awe and fascinate her childhood . 
His frock coat had been carefully brushed and ironed , and the ends of his narrow black tie were so nearly even that the tying must have cost him a protracted struggle . 
He stood a moment behind the desk , resting his finger tips against it , and bending slightly toward his audience then he straightened himself and began . 
He was nearing the end of his address . 
But that is not the only way of coming back to North Dormer . 
Some of us , who went out from here in our youth . 
went out , like you , to busy cities and larger duties . 
have come back in another way come back for good . 
I am one of those , as many of you know . 
He paused , and there was a sense of suspense in the listening hall . 
Things they cannot foresee may send some of those young men back some day to the little township and the old homestead they may come back for good . 
He looked about him , and repeated gravely For GOOD . 
There's the point I want to make . 
Gentlemen , let us look at things as they are . 
Some of us have come back to our native town because we'd failed to get on elsewhere . 
One way or other , things had gone wrong with us . 
what we'd dreamed of hadn't come true . 
But the fact that we had failed elsewhere is no reason why we should fail here . 
Our very experiments in larger places , even if they were unsuccessful , ought to have helped us to make North Dormer a larger place . 
Believe me , all of you , the best way to help the places we live in is to be glad we live there . 
He stopped , and a murmur of emotion and surprise ran through the audience . 
It was not in the least what they had expected , but it moved them more than what they had expected would have moved them . 
Hear , hear ! a voice cried out in the middle of the hall . 
An outburst of cheers caught up the cry , and as they subsided Charity heard Mr. Miles saying to someone near him That was a MAN talking He wiped his spectacles . 
Mr. Royall had stepped back from the desk , and taken his seat in the row of chairs in front of the harmonium . 
and Charity began again to search for Harney . 
Suddenly Mr. Royall pushed back his seat , and one of the maple branches in front of the harmonium collapsed with a crash . 
Charity did not need to see the face . 
She knew at a glance the slim figure , the fair hair heaped up under the hat brim , the long pale wrinkled gloves with bracelets slipping over them . 
Someone came forward to replace the fallen branch , and Miss Balch and Harney were once more hidden . 
But to Charity the vision of their two faces had blotted out everything . 
In a flash they had shown her the bare reality of her situation . 
Of all these she knew nothing , except what he had told her of his architectural aspirations . 
The feeling possessing her was not one of jealousy she was too sure of his love . 
They gave all they had , but their all was not enough it could not buy more than a few moments . 
For an instant Mr. Royall's countenance detached itself from the general blur . 
A feeling of physical sickness rushed over her and then deadly apprehension . 
The light of the fiery hours in the little house swept back on her in a glare of fear . 
She forced herself to look away from her guardian , and became aware that the oratory of the Hatchard cousin had ceased , and that Mr. Miles was again flapping his wings . 
Fragments of his peroration floated through her bewildered brain . 
A rich harvest of hallowed memories . 
A sanctified hour to which , in moments of trial , your thoughts will prayerfully return . 
Charity stared straight ahead of her and then , dropping her flowers , fell face downward at Mr. Royall's feet . 
On the third day there were speeches and ceremonies at Creston and Creston River on the fourth the principal performers were to be driven in buck boards to Dormer and Hamblin . 
It was on the fourth day that Charity returned for the first time to the little house . 
She had not seen Harney alone since they had parted at the wood's edge the night before the celebrations began . 
In the interval she had passed through many moods , but for the moment the terror which had seized her in the Town Hall had faded to the edge of consciousness . 
She had fainted because the hall was stiflingly hot , and because the speakers had gone on and on . 
Several other people had been affected by the heat , and had had to leave before the exercises were over . 
There had been thunder in the air all the afternoon , and everyone said afterward that something ought to have been done to ventilate the hall . 
At the dance that evening where she had gone reluctantly , and only because she feared to stay away , she had sprung back into instant reassurance . 
As soon as she entered she had seen Harney waiting for her , and he had come up with kind gay eyes , and swept her off in a waltz . 
Her feet were full of music , and though her only training had been with the village youths she had no difficulty in tuning her steps to his . 
As they circled about the floor all her vain fears dropped from her , and she even forgot that she was probably dancing in Annabel Balch's slippers . 
When the waltz was over Harney , with a last hand clasp , left her to meet Miss Hatchard and Miss Balch , who were just entering . 
Charity had a moment of anguish as Miss Balch appeared but it did not last . 
The triumphant fact of her own greater beauty , and of Harney's sense of it , swept her apprehensions aside . 
Miss Balch , in an unbecoming dress , looked sallow and pinched , and Charity fancied there was a worried expression in her pale lashed eyes . 
She took a seat near Miss Hatchard and it was presently apparent that she did not mean to dance . 
Charity did not dance often either . 
She was thinking of all this as she waited for him in the deserted house . 
The late afternoon was sultry , and she had tossed aside her hat and stretched herself at full length on the Mexican blanket because it was cooler indoors than under the trees . 
She lay with her arms folded beneath her head , gazing out at the shaggy shoulder of the Mountain . 
The sky behind it was full of the splintered glories of the descending sun , and before long she expected to hear Harney's bicycle bell in the lane . 
They had smiled together at the joke of hearing the crowded buck boards roll by on the return , while they lay close in their hiding above the road . 
Such childish triumphs still gave her a sense of reckless security . 
Nevertheless she had not wholly forgotten the vision of fear that had opened before her in the Town Hall . 
The sense of lastingness was gone from her and every moment with Harney would now be ringed with doubt . 
Charity lay gazing up at it , and watching for the first white star . 
She half raised herself , and then dropped back on her folded arms . 
The combs had slipped from her hair , and it trailed in a rough dark rope across her breast . 
She lay quite still , a sleepy smile on her lips , her indolent lids half shut . 
There was a fumbling at the padlock and she called out Have you slipped the chain ? The door opened , and Mr. Royall walked into the room . 
She started up , sitting back against the cushions , and they looked at each other without speaking . 
Then Mr. Royall closed the door latch and advanced a few steps . 
Charity jumped to her feet . 
What have you come for ? she stammered . 
The last glare of the sunset was on her guardian's face , which looked ash coloured in the yellow radiance . 
Because I knew you were here , he answered simply . 
She had become conscious of the hair hanging loose across her breast , and it seemed as though she could not speak to him till she had set herself in order . 
She groped for her comb , and tried to fasten up the coil . 
Mr. Royall silently watched her . 
Charity , he said , he'll be here in a minute . 
Let me talk to you first . 
You've got no right to talk to me . 
I can do what I please . 
What is it you mean to do ? I needn't answer that , or anything else . 
He had glanced away , and stood looking curiously about the illuminated room . 
Purple asters and red maple leaves filled the jar on the table on a shelf against the wall stood a lamp , the kettle , a little pile of cups and saucers . 
The canvas chairs were grouped about the table . 
So this is where you meet , he said . 
His tone was quiet and controlled , and the fact disconcerted her . 
She had been ready to give him violence for violence , but this calm acceptance of things as they were left her without a weapon . 
See here , Charity you're always telling me I've got no rights over you . 
There might be two ways of looking at that but I ain't going to argue it . 
All I know is I raised you as good as I could , and meant fairly by you always except once , for a bad half hour . 
There's no justice in weighing that half hour against the rest , and you know it . 
If you hadn't , you wouldn't have gone on living under my roof . 
Seems to me the fact of your doing that gives me some sort of a right the right to try and keep you out of trouble . 
I'm not asking you to consider any other . 
She listened in silence , and then gave a slight laugh . 
Better wait till I'm in trouble , she said . 
He paused a moment , as if weighing her words . 
Is that all your answer ? Yes , that's all . 
He turned away slowly , but as he did so the thing she had been waiting for happened the door opened again and Harney entered . 
He stopped short with a face of astonishment , and then , quickly controlling himself , went up to Mr. Royall with a frank look . 
Have you come to see me , sir ? he said coolly , throwing his cap on the table with an air of proprietorship . 
Mr. Royall again looked slowly about the room then his eyes turned to the young man . 
Is this your house ? he inquired . 
Harney laughed Well as much as it's anybody's . 
I come here to sketch occasionally . 
Charity , quivering with anger , started forward , and then stood silent , too humbled for speech . 
Harney's eyes had dropped under the old man's gaze but he raised them presently , and looking steadily at Mr. Royall , said Miss Royall is not a child . 
Isn't it rather absurd to talk of her as if she were ? I believe she considers herself free to come and go as she pleases , without any questions from anyone . 
He paused and added I'm ready to answer any she wishes to ask me . 
Mr. Royall turned to her . 
Ask him when he's going to marry you , then There was another silence , and he laughed in his turn a broken laugh , with a scraping sound in it . 
You darsn't ! he shouted out with sudden passion . 
He went close up to Charity , his right arm lifted , not in menace but in tragic exhortation . 
You darsn't , and you know it and you know why ! He swung back again upon the young man . 
And you know why you ain't asked her to marry you , and why you don't mean to . 
It's because you hadn't need to nor any other man either . 
I'm the only one that was fool enough not to know that and I guess nobody'll repeat my mistake not in Eagle County , anyhow . 
They all know what she is , and what she came from . 
They all know her mother was a woman of the town from Nettleton , that followed one of those Mountain fellows up to his place and lived there with him like a heathen . 
I saw her there sixteen years ago , when I went to bring this child down . 
I went to save her from the kind of life her mother was leading but I'd better have left her in the kennel she came from . 
Harney leaned in the window , a frown on his face he was twirling between his fingers a small package that dangled from a loop of string . 
Charity heard Mr. Royall draw a hard breath or two , and his shoulders shook a little . 
Presently he stood up and walked across the room . 
He did not look again at the young people they saw him feel his way to the door and fumble for the latch and then he went out into the darkness . 
After he had gone there was a long silence . 
Charity waited for Harney to speak but he seemed at first not to find anything to say . 
At length he broke out irrelevantly I wonder how he found out ? She made no answer and he tossed down the package he had been holding , and went up to her . 
I'm so sorry , dear . 
that this should have happened . 
She threw her head back proudly . 
I ain't ever been sorry not a minute ! No. She waited to be caught into his arms , but he turned away from her irresolutely . 
The last glow was gone from behind the Mountain . 
Everything in the room had turned grey and indistinct , and an autumnal dampness crept up from the hollow below the orchard , laying its cold touch on their flushed faces . 
Harney walked the length of the room , and then turned back and sat down at the table . 
Come , he said imperiously . 
She sat down beside him , and he untied the string about the package and spread out a pile of sandwiches . 
I stole them from the love feast at Hamblin , he said with a laugh , pushing them over to her . 
She laughed too , and took one , and began to eat Didn't you make the tea ? No , she said . 
I forgot Oh , well it's too late to boil the water now . 
He said nothing more , and sitting opposite to each other they went on silently eating the sandwiches . 
Darkness had descended in the little room , and Harney's face was a dim blur to Charity . 
Suddenly he leaned across the table and laid his hand on hers . 
I shall have to go off for a while a month or two , perhaps to arrange some things and then I'll come back . 
His voice seemed like a stranger's nothing was left in it of the vibrations she knew . 
Her hand lay inertly under his , and she left it there , and raised her head , trying to answer him . 
But the words died in her throat . 
They sat motionless , in their attitude of confident endearment , as if some strange death had surprised them . 
At length Harney sprang to his feet with a slight shiver . 
God ! it's damp we couldn't have come here much longer . 
It threw a queer shadow on his frowning forehead , and made the smile on his lips a grimace . 
But it's been good , though , hasn't it , Charity ? . 
What's the matter why do you stand there staring at me ? Haven't the days here been good ? He went up to her and caught her to his breast . 
And there'll be others lots of others . 
She clung to him desperately , and as he drew her to his knees on the couch she felt as if they were being sucked down together into some bottomless abyss . 
XV That night , as usual , they said good bye at the wood's edge . 
Harney was to leave the next morning early . 
He asked Charity to say nothing of their plans till his return , and , strangely even to herself , she was glad of the postponement . 
A leaden weight of shame hung on her , benumbing every other sensation , and she bade him good bye with hardly a sign of emotion . 
His reiterated promises to return seemed almost wounding . 
She had no doubt that he intended to come back her doubts were far deeper and less definable . 
Since the fanciful vision of the future that had flitted through her imagination at their first meeting she had hardly ever thought of his marrying her . 
She had not had to put the thought from her mind it had not been there . 
If ever she looked ahead she felt instinctively that the gulf between them was too deep , and that the bridge their passion had flung across it was as insubstantial as a rainbow . 
But she seldom looked ahead each day was so rich that it absorbed her . 
Now her first feeling was that everything would be different , and that she herself would be a different being to Harney . 
Instead of remaining separate and absolute , she would be compared with other people , and unknown things would be expected of her . 
She was too proud to be afraid , but the freedom of her spirit drooped . 
Harney had not fixed any date for his return he had said he would have to look about first , and settle things . 
He had promised to write as soon as there was anything definite to say , and had left her his address , and asked her to write also . 
But the address frightened her . 
It was in New York , at a club with a long name in Fifth Avenue it seemed to raise an insurmountable barrier between them . 
She had never written to anyone farther away than Hepburn . 
Harney's first letter came after he had been gone about ten days . 
It was tender but grave , and bore no resemblance to the gay little notes he had sent her by the freckled boy from Creston River . 
When that would be he could not yet foresee but she could count on his returning as soon as the way was clear . 
She had not seen Mr. Royall on her return to the red house . 
The morning after her parting from Harney , when she came down from her room , Verena told her that her guardian had gone off to Worcester and Portland . 
It was the time of year when he usually reported to the insurance agencies he represented , and there was nothing unusual in his departure except its suddenness . 
She thought little about him , except to be glad he was not there . 
She kept to herself for the first days , while North Dormer was recovering from its brief plunge into publicity , and the subsiding agitation left her unnoticed . 
But the faithful Ally could not be long avoided . 
The two girls sat upstairs in Charity's room . 
It was my idea running a ribbon through the gauging , she said proudly , drawing back to contemplate the blouse she was trimming . 
It's for Miss Balch she was awfully pleased . 
She paused and then added , with a queer tremor in her piping voice I darsn't have told her I got the idea from one I saw on Julia . 
Charity raised her eyes listlessly . 
Do you still see Julia sometimes ? Ally reddened , as if the allusion had escaped her unintentionally . 
Oh , it was a long time ago I seen her with those gaugings . 
Silence fell again , and Ally presently continued Miss Balch left me a whole lot of things to do over this time . 
Why has she gone ? Charity inquired with an inner start of apprehension . 
Didn't you know ? She went off the morning after they had the celebration at Hamblin . 
I seen her drive by early with Mr. Harney . 
There was another silence , measured by the steady tick of the rain against the window , and , at intervals , by the snipping sound of Ally's scissors . 
Ally gave a meditative laugh . 
Charity again lifted her heavy lids and stared at Ally's pale pointed face , which moved to and fro above her moving fingers . 
Is she going to get married ? Ally let the blouse sink to her knee , and sat gazing at it . 
Her lips seemed suddenly dry , and she moistened them a little with her tongue . 
Why , I presume so . 
Didn't you know ? Why should I know ? Ally did not answer . 
She bent above the blouse , and began picking out a basting thread with the point of the scissors . 
Why should I know ? Charity repeated harshly . 
I didn't know but what . 
folks here say she's engaged to Mr. Harney . 
Charity stood up with a laugh , and stretched her arms lazily above her head . 
If all the people got married that folks say are going to you'd have your time full making wedding dresses , she said ironically . 
Why don't you believe it ? Ally ventured . 
It would not make it true if I did nor prevent it if I didn't . 
I only know I seen her crying the night of the party because her dress didn't set right . 
That was why she wouldn't dance any . 
Charity stood absently gazing down at the lacy garment on Ally's knee . 
Abruptly she stooped and snatched it up . 
Oh , Charity Ally cried , springing up . 
For a long interval the two girls faced each other across the ruined garment . 
Oh , what'll I say to her ? What'll I do ? It was real lace ! she wailed between her piping sobs . 
Charity glared at her unrelentingly . 
You'd oughtn't to have brought it here , she said , breathing quickly . 
I hate other people's clothes it's just as if they was there themselves . 
The two stared at each other again over this avowal , till Charity brought out , in a gasp of anguish Oh , go go go or I'll hate you too . 
When Ally left her , she fell sobbing across her bed . 
The first crisp maple leaves began to spin across Miss Hatchard's lawn , and the Virginia creeper on the Memorial splashed the white porch with scarlet . 
It was a golden triumphant September . 
The nights were cold , with a dry glitter of stars so high up that they seemed smaller and more vivid . 
At night she planned many things . 
it was then she wrote to Harney . 
But the letters were never put on paper , for she did not know how to express what she wanted to tell him . 
Since her talk with Ally she had felt sure that Harney was engaged to Annabel Balch , and that the process of settling things would involve the breaking of this tie . 
Her first rage of jealousy over , she felt no fear on this score . 
She was still sure that Harney would come back , and she was equally sure that , for the moment at least , it was she whom he loved and not Miss Balch . 
Yet the girl , no less , remained a rival , since she represented all the things that Charity felt herself most incapable of understanding or achieving . 
Annabel Balch was , if not the girl Harney ought to marry , at least the kind of girl it would be natural for him to marry . 
The more she thought of these things the more the sense of fatality weighed on her she felt the uselessness of struggling against the circumstances . 
She had never known how to adapt herself she could only break and tear and destroy . 
The scene with Ally had left her stricken with shame at her own childish savagery . 
She felt herself too unequally pitted against unknown forces . 
At length this feeling moved her to sudden action . 
It was very short I want you should marry Annabel Balch if you promised to . 
I think maybe you were afraid I'd feel too bad about it . 
I feel I'd rather you acted right . 
She posted the letter early the next morning , and for a few days her heart felt strangely light . 
Then she began to wonder why she received no answer . 
One day as she sat alone in the library pondering these things the walls of books began to spin around her , and the rosewood desk to rock under her elbows . 
The dizziness was followed by a wave of nausea like that she had felt on the day of the exercises in the Town Hall . 
But the Town Hall had been crowded and stiflingly hot , and the library was empty , and so chilly that she had kept on her jacket . 
Five minutes before she had felt perfectly well and now it seemed as if she were going to die . 
The bit of lace at which she still languidly worked dropped from her fingers , and the steel crochet hook clattered to the floor . 
She pressed her temples hard between her damp hands , steadying herself against the desk while the wave of sickness swept over her . 
Little by little it subsided , and after a few minutes she stood up , shaken and terrified , groped for her hat , and stumbled out into the air . 
But the whole sunlit autumn whirled , reeled and roared around her as she dragged herself along the interminable length of the road home . 
As she approached the red house she saw a buggy standing at the door , and her heart gave a leap . 
But it was only Mr. Royall who got out , his travelling bag in hand . 
He saw her coming , and waited in the porch . 
She was conscious that he was looking at her intently , as if there was something strange in her appearance , and she threw back her head with a desperate effort at ease . 
She climbed to her room , every step of the stairs holding her fast as if her feet were lined with glue . 
Two days later , she descended from the train at Nettleton , and walked out of the station into the dusty square . 
Taking the way the wires pointed , she went on hastily , with bent head , till she reached a wide transverse street with a brick building at the corner . 
She crossed this street and glanced furtively up at the front of the brick building then she returned , and entered a door opening on a flight of steep brass rimmed stairs . 
At the back of the hall was a glazed door marked Office . 
After waiting a few minutes in a handsomely furnished room , with plush sofas surmounted by large gold framed photographs of showy young women , Charity was shown into the office . 
When she came out of the glazed door Dr . 
Merkle followed , and led her into another room , smaller , and still more crowded with plush and gold frames . 
Merkle was a plump woman with small bright eyes , an immense mass of black hair coming down low on her forehead , and unnaturally white and even teeth . 
She wore a rich black dress , with gold chains and charms hanging from her bosom . 
Her hands were large and smooth , and quick in all their movements and she smelt of musk and carbolic acid . 
She smiled on Charity with all her faultless teeth . 
Sit down , my dear . 
Wouldn't you like a little drop of something to pick you up ? . 
Well , just lay back a minute then . 
There's nothing to be done just yet but in about a month , if you'll step round again . 
I could take you right into my own house for two or three days , and there wouldn't be a mite of trouble . 
Mercy me ! The next time you'll know better'n to fret like this . 
Charity gazed at her with widening eyes . 
The thought was so horrible that she sprang up , white and shaking , one of her great rushes of anger sweeping over her . 
Merkle , still smiling , also rose . 
Why do you run off in such a hurry ? You can stretch out right here on my sofa . 
She paused , and her smile grew more motherly . 
Afterwards if there's been any talk at home , and you want to get away for a while . 
I have a lady friend in Boston who's looking for a companion . 
you're the very one to suit her , my dear . 
Charity had reached the door . 
I don't want to stay . 
I don't want to come back here , she stammered , her hand on the knob but with a swift movement , Dr . 
Merkle edged her from the threshold . 
Charity looked helplessly at the doctor's tight lips and rigid face . 
It had never occurred to her that medical advice could cost more than two dollars . 
I haven't got that much . 
she faltered , bursting into tears . 
You say you'll come round and settle later ? I've heard that pretty often too . 
Give me your address , and if you can't pay me I'll send the bill to your folks . 
What ? I can't understand what you say . 
That don't suit you either ? My , you're pretty particular for a girl that ain't got enough to settle her own bills . 
She paused , and fixed her eyes on the brooch with a blue stone that Charity had pinned to her blouse . 
Ain't you ashamed to talk that way to a lady that's got to earn her living , when you go about with jewellery like that on you ? . 
It ain't in my line , and I do it only as a favour . 
but if you're a mind to leave that brooch as a pledge , I don't say no . 
Yes , of course , you can get it back when you bring me my money . 
On the way home , she felt an immense and unexpected quietude . 
It had been horrible to have to leave Harney's gift in the woman's hands , but even at that price the news she brought away had not been too dearly bought . 
She would never again know what it was to feel herself alone . 
Everything seemed to have grown suddenly clear and simple . 
That evening , at the gate of the red house , she found Ally waiting in the dusk . 
I was down at the post office just as they were closing up , and Will Targatt said there was a letter for you , so I brought it . 
Ally held out the letter , looking at Charity with piercing sympathy . 
Since the scene of the torn blouse there had been a new and fearful admiration in the eyes she bent on her friend . 
Charity snatched the letter with a laugh . 
Oh , thank you good night , she called out over her shoulder as she ran up the path . 
If she had lingered a moment she knew she would have had Ally at her heels . 
She hurried upstairs and felt her way into her dark room . 
At length she read DEAR CHARITY I have your letter , and it touches me more than I can say . 
Won't you trust me , in return , to do my best ? There are things it is hard to explain , much less to justify but your generosity makes everything easier . 
All I can do now is to thank you from my soul for understanding . 
Your telling me that you wanted me to do right has helped me beyond expression . 
If ever there is a hope of realizing what we dreamed of you will see me back on the instant and I haven't yet lost that hope . 
She read the letter with a rush then she went over and over it , each time more slowly and painstakingly . 
If ever there is a hope of realizing what we dreamed of . 
But then he wasn't even sure of that ? She understood now that every word and every reticence was an avowal of Annabel Balch's prior claim . 
It was true that he was engaged to her , and that he had not yet found a way of breaking his engagement . 
As she read the letter over Charity understood what it must have cost him to write it . 
He was not trying to evade an importunate claim he was honestly and contritely struggling between opposing duties . 
She did not even reproach him in her thoughts for having concealed from her that he was not free she could not see anything more reprehensible in his conduct than in her own . 
Only , there stood between them , fixed and upright in the general upheaval , the indestructible figure of Annabel Balch . 
Face to face with his admission of the fact , she sat staring at the letter . 
A cold tremor ran over her , and the hard sobs struggled up into her throat and shook her from head to foot . 
For a while she was caught and tossed on great waves of anguish that left her hardly conscious of anything but the blind struggle against their assaults . 
Then , little by little , she began to relive , with a dreadful poignancy , each separate stage of her poor romance . 
The conviction gradually strengthened her , and she began to form in her mind the first words of the letter she meant to write to Harney . 
She wanted to write it at once , and with feverish hands she began to rummage in her drawer for a sheet of letter paper . 
But there was none left she must go downstairs to get it . 
At that hour she was not likely to find him there he had probably had his supper and walked over to Carrick Fry's . 
She pushed open the door of the unlit room , and the light of her lifted candle fell on his figure , seated in the darkness in his high backed chair . 
His arms lay along the arms of the chair , and his head was bent a little but he lifted it quickly as Charity entered . 
She started back as their eyes met , remembering that her own were red with weeping , and that her face was livid with the fatigue and emotion of her journey . 
But it was too late to escape , and she stood and looked at him in silence . 
He had risen from his chair , and came toward her with outstretched hands . 
Me ? No She set down the candle on his desk . 
I wanted some letter paper , that's all . 
His face contracted , and the bushy brows jutted forward over his eyes . 
Without answering he opened the drawer of the desk , took out a sheet of paper and an envelope , and pushed them toward her . 
Do you want a stamp too ? he asked . 
She nodded , and he gave her the stamp . 
His look seemed to say that he knew she had taken the paper to write to her lover , who had left her as he had warned her she would be left . 
She remembered the scorn with which she had turned from him that day , and knew , if he guessed the truth , what a list of old scores it must settle . 
She turned and fled upstairs but when she got back to her room all the words that had been waiting had vanished . 
If she could have gone to Harney it would have been different she would only have had to show herself to let his memories speak for her . 
But she had no money left , and there was no one from whom she could have borrowed enough for such a journey . 
There was nothing to do but to write , and await his reply . 
For a long time she sat bent above the blank page but she found nothing to say that really expressed what she was feeling . 
Harney had written that she had made it easier for him , and she was glad it was so she did not want to make things hard . 
She knew she had it in her power to do that she held his fate in her hands . 
All she had to do was to tell him the truth but that was the very fact that held her back . 
Her five minutes face to face with Mr. Royall had stripped her of her last illusion , and brought her back to North Dormer's point of view . 
Distinctly and pitilessly there rose before her the fate of the girl who was married to make things right . 
She had seen too many village love stories end in that way . 
Only was there no alternative but Julia's ? Her soul recoiled from the vision of the white faced woman among the plush sofas and gilt frames . 
In the established order of things as she knew them she saw no place for her individual adventure . 
She sat in her chair without undressing till faint grey streaks began to divide the black slats of the shutters . 
Then she stood up and pushed them open , letting in the light . 
The coming of a new day brought a sharper consciousness of ineluctable reality , and with it a sense of the need of action . 
Merkle's diagnosis had made plain to her . 
She could not hope that those signs would escape the watchful village even before her figure lost its shape she knew her face would betray her . 
To the east a space of light was broadening above the forest but over that also the clouds hung . 
Slowly her gaze travelled across the fields to the rugged curve of the hills . 
She had looked out so often on that lifeless circle , and wondered if anything could ever happen to anyone who was enclosed in it . 
Almost without conscious thought her decision had been reached as her eyes had followed the circle of the hills her mind had also travelled the old round . 
She supposed it was something in her blood that made the Mountain the only answer to her questioning , the inevitable escape from all that hemmed her in and beset her . 
At any rate it began to loom against the rainy dawn and the longer she looked at it the more clearly she understood that now at last she was really going there . 
XVI THE rain held off , and an hour later , when she started , wild gleams of sunlight were blowing across the fields . 
After Harney's departure she had returned her bicycle to its owner at Creston , and she was not sure of being able to walk all the way to the Mountain . 
Her preparations had been made with quiet forethought . 
She wanted above all to keep up her strength , and reach her destination without attracting notice . 
Mile by mile she retraced the road over which she had so often flown to her lover . 
Come and confess your guilt . 
The impulse did not shape itself in thought she only knew she must save her baby , and hide herself with it somewhere where no one would ever come to trouble them . 
She walked on and on , growing more heavy footed as the day advanced . 
She sat there a long time , trying to gather the courage to start again , and walk past the broken gate and the untrimmed rose bushes strung with scarlet hips . 
A fresh wind had sprung up , scattering the rain and blowing down keenly from the mountain . 
Presently the clouds lowered again , and a few white darts struck her in the face it was the first snow falling over Hamblin . 
The roofs of the lonely village were only half a mile ahead , and she was resolved to push beyond it , and try to reach the Mountain that night . 
She had no clear plan of action , except that , once in the settlement , she meant to look for Liff Hyatt , and get him to take her to her mother . 
Suddenly the deadly faintness came over her once more and she sat down on the bank and leaned her head against a tree trunk . 
The long road and the cloudy landscape vanished from her eyes , and for a time she seemed to be circling about in some terrible wheeling darkness . 
She opened her eyes , and saw a buggy drawn up beside her , and a man who had jumped down from it and was gazing at her with a puzzled face . 
Slowly consciousness came back , and she saw that the man was Liff Hyatt . 
She was dimly aware that he was asking her something , and she looked at him in silence , trying to find strength to speak . 
At length her voice stirred in her throat , and she said in a whisper I'm going up the Mountain . 
Charity ! What on earth are you doing here ? Mr. Miles exclaimed , throwing the reins on the horse's back and scrambling down from the buggy . 
She lifted her heavy eyes to his . 
I'm going to see my mother . 
The two men glanced at each other , and for a moment neither of them spoke . 
Then Mr. Miles said You look ill , my dear , and it's a long way . 
Do you think it's wise ? Charity stood up . 
I've got to go to her . 
A vague mirthless grin contracted Liff Hyatt's face , and Mr. Miles again spoke uncertainly . 
You know , then you'd been told ? She stared at him . 
I don't know what you mean . 
I want to go to her . 
Mr. Miles was examining her thoughtfully . 
She fancied she saw a change in his expression , and the blood rushed to her forehead . 
I just want to go to her , she repeated . 
He laid his hand on her arm . 
My child , your mother is dying . 
Liff Hyatt came down to fetch me . 
Get in and come with us . 
He helped her up to the seat at his side , Liff Hyatt clambered in at the back , and they drove off toward Hamblin . 
But as her head cleared she began to understand . 
And now it was her mother who was dying . 
and she would find herself as much alone on the Mountain as anywhere else in the world . 
He did not seem in the least like the kind of man who would care to go up the Mountain . 
For a while she found it impossible to speak , and he seemed to understand this , and made no attempt to question her . 
He said he brought me down because my father went to prison . 
And you've never been up there since ? Never . 
Mr. Miles was silent again , then he said I'm glad you're coming with me now . 
Perhaps we may find your mother alive , and she may know that you have come . 
They had reached Hamblin , where the snow flurry had left white patches in the rough grass on the roadside , and in the angles of the roofs facing north . 
It was a poor bleak village under the granite flank of the Mountain , and as soon as they left it they began to climb . 
As the road mounted the country grew bleaker , and they drove across fields of faded mountain grass bleached by long months beneath the snow . 
In the hollows a few white birches trembled , or a mountain ash lit its scarlet clusters but only a scant growth of pines darkened the granite ledges . 
Mr. Miles had not spoken again he seemed to understand that she wanted to be left alone . 
After a while the track they were following forked , and he pulled up the horse , as if uncertain of the way . 
They were hardly more than sheds , built of logs and rough boards , with tin stove pipes sticking out of their roofs . 
The sun was setting , and dusk had already fallen on the lower world , but a yellow glare still lay on the lonely hillside and the crouching houses . 
The next moment it faded and left the landscape in dark autumn twilight . 
Over there , Liff called out , stretching his long arm over Mr. Miles's shoulder . 
The clergyman turned to the left , across a bit of bare ground overgrown with docks and nettles , and stopped before the most ruinous of the sheds . 
A stove pipe reached its crooked arm out of one window , and the broken panes of the other were stuffed with rags and paper . 
In contrast to such a dwelling the brown house in the swamp might have stood for the home of plenty . 
As the buggy drew up two or three mongrel dogs jumped out of the twilight with a great barking , and a young man slouched to the door and stood there staring . 
In the twilight Charity saw that his face had the same sodden look as Bash Hyatt's , the day she had seen him sleeping by the stove . 
He made no effort to silence the dogs , but leaned in the door , as if roused from a drunken lethargy , while Mr. Miles got out of the buggy . 
Is it here ? the clergyman asked Liff in a low voice and Liff nodded . 
Mr. Miles turned to Charity . 
Just hold the horse a minute , my dear I'll go in first , he said , putting the reins in her hands . 
She took them passively , and sat staring straight ahead of her at the darkening scene while Mr. Miles and Liff Hyatt went up to the house . 
They stood a few minutes talking with the man in the door , and then Mr. Miles came back . 
As he came close , Charity saw that his smooth pink face wore a frightened solemn look . 
Your mother is dead , Charity you'd better come with me , he said . 
She got down and followed him while Liff led the horse away . 
As she approached the door she said to herself This is where I was born . 
this is where I belong . 
She had said it to herself often enough as she looked across the sunlit valleys at the Mountain but it had meant nothing then , and now it had become a reality . 
Mr. Miles took her gently by the arm , and they entered what appeared to be the only room in the house . 
It was so dark that she could just discern a group of a dozen people sitting or sprawling about a table made of boards laid across two barrels . 
They looked up listlessly as Mr. Miles and Charity came in , and a woman's thick voice said Here's the preacher . 
Mr. Miles paused and looked about him then he turned to the young man who had met them at the door . 
Is the body here ? he asked . 
The young man , instead of answering , turned his head toward the group . 
Where's the candle ? I tole yer to bring a candle , he said with sudden harshness to a girl who was lolling against the table . 
She did not answer , but another man got up and took from some corner a candle stuck into a bottle . 
How'll I light it ? The stove's out , the girl grumbled . 
Mr. Miles fumbled under his heavy wrappings and drew out a match box . 
Mary's over there , someone said and Mr. Miles , taking the bottle in his hand , passed behind the table . 
Charity followed him , and they stood before a mattress on the floor in a corner of the room . 
The woman lay on her back , her eyes staring up unblinkingly at the candle that trembled in Mr. Miles's hand . 
She jus' dropped off , a woman said , over the shoulder of the others and the young man added I jus' come in and found her . 
An elderly man with lank hair and a feeble grin pushed between them . 
It was like this I says to her on'y the night before if you don't take and quit , I says to her . 
Someone pulled him back and sent him reeling against a bench along the wall , where he dropped down muttering his unheeded narrative . 
There was a silence then the young woman who had been lolling against the table suddenly parted the group , and stood in front of Charity . 
She was healthier and robuster looking than the others , and her weather beaten face had a certain sullen beauty . 
Who's the girl ? Who brought her here ? she said , fixing her eyes mistrustfully on the young man who had rebuked her for not having a candle ready . 
I brought her she is Mary Hyatt's daughter . 
What ? Her too ? the girl sneered and the young man turned on her with an oath . 
Mr. Miles had set the candle on the floor and taken off his heavy coat . 
Come and help me , he said . 
He knelt down by the mattress , and pressed the lids over the dead woman's eyes . 
Charity , trembling and sick , knelt beside him , and tried to compose her mother's body . 
She drew the stocking over the dreadful glistening leg , and pulled the skirt down to the battered upturned boots . 
As she did so , she looked at her mother's face , thin yet swollen , with lips parted in a frozen gasp above the broken teeth . 
There was no sign in it of anything human she lay there like a dead dog in a ditch Charity's hands grew cold as they touched her . 
Mr. Miles drew the woman's arms across her breast and laid his coat over her . 
Then he covered her face with his handkerchief , and placed the bottle with the candle in it at her head . 
Having done this he stood up . 
Is there no coffin ? he asked , turning to the group behind him . 
There was a moment of bewildered silence then the fierce girl spoke up . 
You'd oughter brought it with you . 
But then she never had no bed . 
And the stove warn't hers , said the lank haired man , on the defensive . 
Mr. Miles turned away from them and moved a few steps apart . 
I am the Resurrection and the Life , Mr. Miles began he that believeth in me , though he were dead , yet shall he live . 
Though after my skin worms destroy my body , yet in my flesh shall I see God . 
IN MY FLESH SHALL I SEE GOD ! Charity thought of the gaping mouth and stony eyes under the handkerchief , and of the glistening leg over which she had drawn the stocking . 
We brought nothing into this world and we shall take nothing out of it There was a sudden muttering and a scuffle at the back of the group . 
I brought the stove , said the elderly man with lank hair , pushing his way between the others . 
I wen' down to Creston'n bought it . 
n' I got a right to take it outer here . 
n' I'll lick any feller says I ain't . 
Sit down , damn you ! shouted the tall youth who had been drowsing on the bench against the wall . 
For man walketh in a vain shadow , and disquieteth himself in vain he heapeth up riches and cannot tell who shall gather them . 
Well , it ARE his , a woman in the background interjected in a frightened whine . 
The tall youth staggered to his feet . 
If you don't hold your mouths I'll turn you all out o' here , the whole lot of you , he cried with many oaths . 
don't let 'em faze you . 
Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept . 
Behold , I show you a mystery . 
We shall not all sleep , but we shall all be changed , in a moment , in the twinkling of an eye , at the last trump . 
For this corruptible must put on incorruption and this mortal must put on immortality . 
One by one the mighty words fell on Charity's bowed head , soothing the horror , subduing the tumult , mastering her as they mastered the drink dazed creatures at her back . 
Mr. Miles read to the last word , and then closed the book . 
Is the grave ready ? he asked . 
Liff Hyatt , who had come in while he was reading , nodded a Yes , and pushed forward to the side of the mattress . 
Between them they raised up the mattress but their movements were unsteady , and the coat slipped to the floor , revealing the poor body in its helpless misery . 
Charity , picking up the coat , covered her mother once more . 
Liff had brought a lantern , and the old woman who had already spoken took it up , and opened the door to let the little procession pass out . 
The wind had dropped , and the night was very dark and bitterly cold . 
The old woman walked ahead , the lantern shaking in her hand and spreading out before her a pale patch of dead grass and coarse leaved weeds enclosed in an immensity of blackness . 
Mr. Miles took Charity by the arm , and side by side they walked behind the mattress . 
Man that is born of woman hath but a short time to live and is full of misery . 
He cometh up and is cut down . 
he fleeth as it were a shadow . 
Yet , O Lord God most holy , O Lord most mighty , O holy and merciful Saviour , deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal death . 
and then Liff Hyatt , coming forward with a spade , began to shovel in the earth . 
Liff's gaunt shoulders rose and bent in the lantern light as he dashed the clods of earth into the grave . 
God it's froze a'ready , he muttered , spitting into his palm and passing his ragged shirt sleeve across his perspiring face . 
The last spadeful of earth fell on the vile body of Mary Hyatt , and Liff rested on his spade , his shoulder blades still heaving with the effort . 
Lord , have mercy upon us , Christ have mercy upon us , Lord have mercy upon us . 
Mr. Miles took the lantern from the old woman's hand and swept its light across the circle of bleared faces . 
Now kneel down , all of you , he commanded , in a voice of authority that Charity had never heard . 
She knelt down at the edge of the grave , and the others , stiffly and hesitatingly , got to their knees beside her . 
Mr. Miles knelt , too . 
And now pray with me you know this prayer , he said , and he began Our Father which art in Heaven . 
One or two of the women falteringly took the words up , and when he ended , the lank haired man flung himself on the neck of the tall youth . 
It was this way , he said . 
I tole her the night before , I says to her . 
The reminiscence ended in a sob . 
Mr. Miles had been getting into his coat again . 
He came up to Charity , who had remained passively kneeling by the rough mound of earth . 
My child , you must come . 
She lifted her eyes to his face he seemed to speak out of another world . 
I ain't coming I'm going to stay here . 
Here ? Where ? What do you mean ? These are my folks . 
I'm going to stay with them . 
Mr. Miles lowered his voice . 
But it's not possible you don't know what you are doing . 
You can't stay among these people you must come with me . 
She shook her head and rose from her knees . 
The group about the grave had scattered in the darkness , but the old woman with the lantern stood waiting . 
Her mournful withered face was not unkind , and Charity went up to her . 
Have you got a place where I can lie down for the night ? she asked . 
Liff came up , leading the buggy out of the night . 
He looked from one to the other with his feeble smile . 
She'll take you home , he said and he added , raising his voice to speak to the old woman It's the girl from lawyer Royall's Mary's girl . 
The woman nodded and raised her sad old eyes to Charity's . 
XVII CHARITY lay on the floor on a mattress , as her dead mother's body had lain . 
The room in which she lay was cold and dark and low ceilinged , and even poorer and barer than the scene of Mary Hyatt's earthly pilgrimage . 
On the other side of the fireless stove Liff Hyatt's mother slept on a blanket , with two children her grandchildren , she said rolled up against her like sleeping puppies . 
They had their thin clothes spread over them , having given the only other blanket to their guest . 
Up there somewhere , she supposed , the God whom Mr. Miles had invoked was waiting for Mary Hyatt to appear . 
She herself felt as remote from the poor creature she had seen lowered into her hastily dug grave as if the height of the heavens divided them . 
As she lay there , half stunned by her tragic initiation , Charity vainly tried to think herself into the life about her . 
She was frightened by the secret affinity she had felt with this girl , and by the light it threw on her own beginnings . 
Then she remembered what Mr. Royall had said in telling her story to Lucius Harney Yes , there was a mother but she was glad to have the child go . 
She'd have given her to anybody . 
If she had been less exhausted , less burdened with his weight , she would have sprung up then and there and fled away . 
The grim hours of the night dragged themselves slowly by , and at last the sky paled and dawn threw a cold blue beam into the room . 
A mortal lassitude weighed on her . 
Vague thoughts of Nettleton flitted through her mind . 
Anything , anything was better than to add another life to the nest of misery on the Mountain . 
The old woman and the children were still sleeping when Charity rose from her mattress . 
Her body was stiff with cold and fatigue , and she moved slowly lest her heavy steps should rouse them . 
She was faint with hunger , and had nothing left in her satchel but on the table she saw the half of a stale loaf . 
No doubt it was to serve as the breakfast of old Mrs. Hyatt and the children but Charity did not care she had her own baby to think of . 
She found one of the pretty chemises that Ally had made for her , with a blue ribbon run through its edging . 
It was one of the dainty things on which she had squandered her savings , and as she looked at it the blood rushed to her forehead . 
She laid the chemise on the table , and stealing across the floor lifted the latch and went out . 
The morning was icy cold and a pale sun was just rising above the eastern shoulder of the Mountain . 
The houses scattered on the hillside lay cold and smokeless under the sun flecked clouds , and not a human being was in sight . 
Charity paused on the threshold and tried to discover the road by which she had come the night before . 
Across the field surrounding Mrs. Hyatt's shanty she saw the tumble down house in which she supposed the funeral service had taken place . 
Charity walked across the field to the ground . 
She stood a minute listening to his small solitary song then she rejoined the trail and began to mount the hill to the pine wood . 
Now that she walked again in a daylight world , on the way back to familiar things , her imagination moved more soberly . 
On one point she was still decided she could not remain at North Dormer , and the sooner she got away from it the better . 
But everything beyond was darkness . 
She bent her shoulders and struggled on against it for a while but presently her breath failed , and she sat down under a ledge of rock overhung by shivering birches . 
From where she sat she saw the trail wandering across the bleached grass in the direction of Hamblin , and the granite wall of the Mountain falling away to infinite distances . 
Charity felt herself a mere speck in the lonely circle of the sky . 
The events of the last two days seemed to have divided her forever from her short dream of bliss . 
Even Harney's image had been blurred by that crushing experience she thought of him as so remote from her that he seemed hardly more than a memory . 
In her fagged and floating mind only one sensation had the weight of reality it was the bodily burden of her child . 
But for it she would have felt as rootless as the whiffs of thistledown the wind blew past her . 
Her child was like a load that held her down , and yet like a hand that pulled her to her feet . 
She said to herself that she must get up and struggle on . 
Her eyes turned back to the trail across the top of the Mountain , and in the distance she saw a buggy against the sky . 
The buggy was following the trail and making straight for the pine wood through which she had climbed and she knew at once that the driver was in search of her . 
She stood up and walked toward the buggy . 
Mr. Royall saw her , and touched the horse with the whip . 
A minute or two later he was abreast of Charity their eyes met , and without speaking he leaned over and helped her up into the buggy . 
He turned the horse's head , and they began to jog back toward Hamblin . 
Charity sat speechless , staring straight ahead of her , and Mr. Royall occasionally uttered a word of encouragement to the horse Get along there , Dan . 
I gave him a rest at Hamblin but I brought him along pretty quick , and it's a stiff pull up here against the wind . 
After an interval he began again It was a day just like this , only spitting snow , when I come up here for you the first time . 
Then , as if fearing that she might take his remark as a reminder of past benefits , he added quickly I dunno's you think it was such a good job , either . 
Yes , I do , she murmured , looking straight ahead of her . 
Well , he said , I tried He did not finish the sentence , and she could think of nothing more to say . 
Ho , there , Dan , step out , he muttered , jerking the bridle . 
You cold ? he asked abruptly . 
She shook her head , but he drew the cover higher up , and stooped to tuck it in about the ankles . 
She continued to look straight ahead . 
Tears of weariness and weakness were dimming her eyes and beginning to run over , but she dared not wipe them away lest he should observe the gesture . 
They drove in silence , following the long loops of the descent upon Hamblin , and Mr. Royall did not speak again till they reached the outskirts of the village . 
Then he let the reins droop on the dashboard and drew out his watch . 
Charity , he said , you look fair done up , and North Dormer's a goodish way off . 
I've figured out that we'd do better to stop here long enough for you to get a mouthful of breakfast and then drive down to Creston and take the train . 
She roused herself from her apathetic musing . 
The train what train ? Mr. Royall , without answering , let the horse jog on till they reached the door of the first house in the village . 
This is old Mrs. Hobart's place , he said . 
She'll give us something hot to drink . 
Charity , half unconsciously , found herself getting out of the buggy and following him in at the open door . 
They entered a decent kitchen with a fire crackling in the stove . 
An old woman with a kindly face was setting out cups and saucers on the table . 
She looked up and nodded as they came in , and Mr. Royall advanced to the stove , clapping his numb hands together . 
Well , Mrs. Hobart , you got any breakfast for this young lady ? You can see she's cold and hungry . 
Mrs. Hobart smiled on Charity and took a tin coffee pot from the fire . 
My , you do look pretty mean , she said compassionately . 
Charity reddened , and sat down at the table . 
A feeling of complete passiveness had once more come over her , and she was conscious only of the pleasant animal sensations of warmth and rest . 
Mrs. Hobart put bread and milk on the table , and then went out of the house Charity saw her leading the horse away to the barn across the yard . 
She did not come back , and Mr. Royall and Charity sat alone at the table with the smoking coffee between them . 
He poured out a cup for her , and put a piece of bread in the saucer , and she began to eat . 
After a while Mr. Royall pushed back his chair . 
The words sent the blood rushing to her face , and she raised her startled eyes to his . 
He was standing on the other side of the table looking at her kindly and gravely and suddenly she understood what he was going to say . 
She continued to sit motionless , a leaden weight upon her lips . 
You and me have spoke some hard things to each other in our time , Charity and there's no good that I can see in any more talking now . 
His voice had the grave persuasive accent that had moved his hearers at the Home Week festival she had a sense of depths of mournful tolerance under that easy tone . 
Her whole body began to tremble with the dread of her own weakness . 
Oh , I can't she burst out desperately . 
She stood up , shaking and bewildered , and began to speak I know I ain't been fair to you always but I want to be now . 
I want you to know . 
Her voice failed her and she stopped . 
Mr. Royall leaned against the wall . 
He was paler than usual , but his face was composed and kindly and her agitation did not appear to perturb him . 
What's all this about wanting ? he said as she paused . 
Do you know what you really want ? I'll tell you . 
You want to be took home and took care of . 
And I guess that's all there is to say . 
Ain't it ? He looked at his watch . 
Well , I'll tell you another thing . 
All I want is to know if you'll marry me . 
If there was anything else , I'd tell you so but there ain't . 
Come to my age , a man knows the things that matter and the things that don't that's about the only good turn life does us . 
His tone was so strong and resolute that it was like a supporting arm about her . 
She felt her resistance melting , her strength slipping away from her as he spoke . 
Don't cry , Charity , he exclaimed in a shaken voice . 
She looked up , startled at his emotion , and their eyes met . 
See here , he said gently , old Dan's come a long distance , and we've got to let him take it easy the rest of the way . 
He picked up the cloak that had slipped to her chair and laid it about her shoulders . 
She followed him out of the house , and then walked across the yard to the shed , where the horse was tied . 
Mr. Royall unblanketed him and led him out into the road . 
Charity got into the buggy and he drew the cover about her and shook out the reins with a cluck . 
When they reached the end of the village he turned the horse's head toward Creston . 
XVIII They began to jog down the winding road to the valley at old Dan's languid pace . 
But this illusion was faint and transitory . 
For the most part she had only a confused sensation of slipping down a smooth irresistible current and she abandoned herself to the feeling as a refuge from the torment of thought . 
Mr. Royall seldom spoke , but his silent presence gave her , for the first time , a sense of peace and security . 
She knew that where he was there would be warmth , rest , silence and for the moment they were all she wanted . 
She shut her eyes , and even these things grew dim to her . 
In the train , during the short run from Creston to Nettleton , the warmth aroused her , and the consciousness of being under strange eyes gave her a momentary energy . 
She sat upright , facing Mr. Royall , and stared out of the window at the denuded country . 
When the train reached Nettleton and she walked out into the square at Mr. Royall's side the sense of unreality grew more overpowering . 
The physical strain of the night and day had left no room in her mind for new sensations and she followed Mr. Royall as passively as a tired child . 
For a moment , then , what he said and something in his way of saying it had made her see why he had always struck her as such a lonely man . 
But the mist of her dreams had hidden him again , and she had forgotten that fugitive impression . 
It came back to her now , as they sat at the table , and gave her , through her own immeasurable desolation , a sudden sense of their nearness to each other . 
But all these feelings were only brief streaks of light in the grey blur of her physical weakness . 
They got out at this house , and the carriage waited while they walked up the path and entered a wainscoted hall and then a room full of books . 
In this room a clergyman whom Charity had never seen received them pleasantly , and asked them to be seated for a few minutes while witnesses were being summoned . 
Charity sat down obediently , and Mr. Royall , his hands behind his back , paced slowly up and down the room . 
As he turned and faced Charity , she noticed that his lips were twitching a little but the look in his eyes was grave and calm . 
Then they went out again , along a sort of arcaded passage , and into a low vaulted room with a cross on an altar , and rows of benches . 
The clergyman opened a book and signed to Charity and Mr. Royall to approach . 
Charity raised her eyes and met Mr. Royall's . 
They were still looking at her kindly and steadily . 
I will ! she heard him say a moment later , after another interval of words that she had failed to catch . 
She was so busy trying to understand the gestures that the clergyman was signalling to her to make that she no longer heard what was being said . 
After another interval the lady on the bench stood up , and taking her hand put it in Mr. Royall's . 
It lay enclosed in his strong palm and she felt a ring that was too big for her being slipped on her thin finger . 
She understood then that she was married . 
Late that afternoon Charity sat alone in a bedroom of the fashionable hotel where she and Harney had vainly sought a table on the Fourth of July . 
She had never before been in so handsomely furnished a room . 
The humming radiator diffused an atmosphere of drowsy warmth , and through a half open door she saw the glitter of the nickel taps above twin marble basins . 
For a while the long turmoil of the night and day had slipped away from her and she sat with closed eyes , surrendering herself to the spell of warmth and silence . 
But presently this merciful apathy was succeeded by the sudden acuteness of vision with which sick people sometimes wake out of a heavy sleep . 
As she opened her eyes they rested on the picture that hung above the bed . 
It was a large engraving with a dazzling white margin enclosed in a wide frame of bird's eye maple with an inner scroll of gold . 
The engraving represented a young man in a boat on a lake over hung with trees . 
He was leaning over to gather water lilies for the girl in a light dress who lay among the cushions in the stern . 
The scene was full of a drowsy midsummer radiance , and Charity averted her eyes from it and , rising from her chair , began to wander restlessly about the room . 
It was on the fifth floor , and its broad window of plate glass looked over the roofs of the town . 
Beyond them stretched a wooded landscape in which the last fires of sunset were picking out a steely gleam . 
Charity gazed at the gleam with startled eyes . 
Even through the gathering twilight she recognized the contour of the soft hills encircling it , and the way the meadows sloped to its edge . 
It was Nettleton Lake that she was looking at . 
She stood a long time in the window staring out at the fading water . 
The sight of it had roused her for the first time to a realization of what she had done . 
Even the feeling of the ring on her hand had not brought her this sharp sense of the irretrievable . 
For an instant the old impulse of flight swept through her but it was only the lift of a broken wing . 
She heard the door open behind her , and Mr. Royall came in . 
He had gone to the barber's to be shaved , and his shaggy grey hair had been trimmed and smoothed . 
He moved strongly and quickly , squaring his shoulders and carrying his head high , as if he did not want to pass unnoticed . 
What are you doing in the dark ? he called out in a cheerful voice . 
He went up to the window to draw the blind , and putting his finger on the wall flooded the room with a blaze of light from the central chandelier . 
In this unfamiliar illumination husband and wife faced each other awkwardly for a moment then Mr. Royall said We'll step down and have some supper , if you say so . 
The thought of food filled her with repugnance but not daring to confess it she smoothed her hair and followed him to the lift . 
Men were lounging in rocking chairs under the blazing chandeliers , travellers coming and going , bells ringing , porters shuffling by with luggage . 
Charity stood among these cross currents of life as motionless and inert as if she had been one of the tables screwed to the marble floor . 
Presently he turned and joined her . 
You go right along up to bed I'm going to sit down here and have my smoke , he said . 
He spoke as easily and naturally as if they had been an old couple , long used to each other's ways , and her contracted heart gave a flutter of relief . 
She followed him to the lift , and he put her in and enjoined the buttoned and braided boy to show her to her room . 
She groped her way in through the darkness , forgetting where the electric button was , and not knowing how to manipulate it . 
But a white autumn moon had risen , and the illuminated sky put a pale light in the room . 
By it she undressed , and after folding up the ruffled pillow slips crept timidly under the spotless counterpane . 
She had never felt such smooth sheets or such light warm blankets but the softness of the bed did not soothe her . 
She lay there trembling with a fear that ran through her veins like ice . 
Suddenly she sat up and pressed her hands against her frightened heart . 
A faint sound had told her that someone was in the room but she must have slept in the interval , for she had heard no one enter . 
The moon was setting beyond the opposite roofs , and in the darkness outlined against the grey square of the window , she saw a figure seated in the rocking chair . 
The figure did not move it was sunk deep in the chair , with bowed head and folded arms , and she saw that it was Mr. Royall who sat there . 
He had not undressed , but had taken the blanket from the foot of the bed and laid it across his knees . 
As she continued to watch him ineffable relief stole slowly over her , relaxing her strained nerves and exhausted body . 
it was because he knew that he had married her , and that he sat there in the darkness to show her she was safe with him . 
A stir of something deeper than she had ever felt in thinking of him flitted through her tired brain , and cautiously , noiselessly , she let her head sink on the pillow . 
When she woke the room was full of morning light , and her first glance showed her that she was alone in it . 
She got up and dressed , and as she was fastening her dress the door opened , and Mr. Royall came in . 
He looked old and tired in the bright daylight , but his face wore the same expression of grave friendliness that had reassured her on the Mountain . 
It was as if all the dark spirits had gone out of him . 
They went downstairs to the dining room for breakfast , and after breakfast he told her he had some insurance business to attend to . 
I guess while I'm doing it you'd better step out and buy yourself whatever you need . 
He smiled , and added with an embarrassed laugh You know I always wanted you to beat all the other girls . 
He drew something from his pocket , and pushed it across the table to her and she saw that he had given her two twenty dollar bills . 
If it ain't enough there's more where that come from I want you to beat 'em all hollow , he repeated . 
She flushed and tried to stammer out her thanks , but he had pushed back his chair and was leading the way out of the dining room . 
A few minutes later Charity went out , too . 
There she paused to look cautiously up and down the thoroughfare , and then climbed the brass bound stairs to Dr . 
The same bushy headed mulatto girl admitted her , and after the same interval of waiting in the red plush parlor she was once more summoned to Dr . 
The doctor received her without surprise , and led her into the inner plush sanctuary . 
I thought you'd be back , but you've come a mite too soon I told you to be patient and not fret , she observed , after a pause of penetrating scrutiny . 
Charity drew the money from her breast . 
I've come to get my blue brooch , she said , flushing . 
Merkle appeared not to remember . 
My , yes I get so many things of that kind . 
Well , my dear , you'll have to wait while I get it out of the safe . 
I don't leave valuables like that laying round like the noospaper . 
She disappeared for a moment , and returned with a bit of twisted up tissue paper from which she unwrapped the brooch . 
Charity , as she looked at it , felt a stir of warmth at her heart . 
She held out an eager hand . 
Have you got the change ? she asked a little breathlessly , laying one of the twenty dollar bills on the table . 
Change ? What'd I want to have change for ? I only see two twenties there , Dr . 
you said it was five dollars a visit . 
For YOU , as a favour I did . 
But how about the responsibility and the insurance ? I don't s'pose you ever thought of that ? This pin's worth a hundred dollars easy . 
If it had got lost or stole , where'd I been when you come to claim it ? Charity remained silent , puzzled and half convinced by the argument , and Dr . 
Merkle promptly followed up her advantage . 
I didn't ask you for your brooch , my dear . 
I'd a good deal ruther folks paid me my regular charge than have 'em put me to all this trouble . 
She paused , and Charity , seized with a desperate longing to escape , rose to her feet and held out one of the bills . 
Will you take that ? she asked . 
No , I won't take that , my dear but I'll take it with its mate , and hand you over a signed receipt if you don't trust me . 
Oh , but I can't it's all I've got , Charity exclaimed . 
Merkle looked up at her pleasantly from the plush sofa . 
It seems you got married yesterday , up to the 'Piscopal church I heard all about the wedding from the minister's chore man . 
It would be a pity , wouldn't it , to let Mr. Royall know you had an account running here ? I just put it to you as your own mother might . 
Anger flamed up in Charity , and for an instant she thought of abandoning the brooch and letting Dr . 
Trembling and hating herself while she did it , she laid Mr. Royall's money on the table , and catching up the brooch fled out of the room and the house . 
In the street she stood still , dazed by this last adventure . 
But the brooch lay in her bosom like a talisman , and she felt a secret lightness of heart . 
It gave her strength , after a moment , to walk on slowly in the direction of the post office , and go in through the swinging doors . 
She addressed the envelope , and on the sheet of paper she wrote I'm married to Mr. Royall . 
The last words were not in the least what she had meant to write they had flowed from her pen irresistibly . 
They reminded her of Mr. Royall's injunction to go out and buy all she needed . 
She looked down at her shabby dress , and wondered what she should say when he saw her coming back empty handed . 
As she drew near the hotel she saw him waiting on the doorstep , and her heart began to beat with apprehension . 
She stood still , her half folded night gown in her hand , while the blood rushed up to her drawn cheeks . 
Well , did you rig yourself out handsomely ? I haven't seen any bundles round , he said jocosely . 
Oh , I'd rather let Ally Hawes make the few things I want , she answered . 
That so ? He looked at her thoughtfully for a moment and his eye brows projected in a scowl . 
Then his face grew friendly again . 
Well , I wanted you to go back looking stylisher than any of them but I guess you're right . 
You're a good girl , Charity . 
Their eyes met , and something rose in his that she had never seen there a look that made her feel ashamed and yet secure . 
I guess you're good , too , she said , shyly and quickly . 
He smiled without answering , and they went out of the room together and dropped down to the hall in the glittering lift . 
Late that evening , in the cold autumn moonlight , they drove up to the door of the red house . 
