Sunday Under Three Heads by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
That a Prelate of your elevated rank has the faintest conception of the extent of those wants , and the nature of those necessities , I do not believe . 
For these reasons , I venture to address this little Pamphlet to your Lordship's consideration . 
I am , My Lord , Your Lordship's most obedient , Humble Servant , TIMOTHY SPARKS . 
There is a great deal of very unnecessary cant about the over dressing of the common people . 
The sun that rises over the quiet streets of London on a bright Sunday morning , shines till his setting , on gay and happy faces . 
The glass is circulated , and the joke goes round but the one is free from excess , and the other from offence and nothing but good humour and hilarity prevail . 
The coffee shops too , at which clerks and young men employed in counting houses can procure their breakfasts , are also open . 
All these places , however , are quickly closed and by the time the church bells begin to ring , all appearance of traffic has ceased . 
And then , what are the signs of immorality that meet the eye ? Churches are well filled , and Dissenters' chapels are crowded to suffocation . 
There is no preaching to empty benches , while the drunken and dissolute populace run riot in the streets . 
The organ peals forth , the hired singers commence a short hymn , and the congregation condescendingly rise , stare about them , and converse in whispers . 
Mark the soft voice in which he reads , and the impressive manner in which he applies his white hand , studded with brilliants , to his perfumed hair . 
Enter a less orthodox place of religious worship , and observe the contrast . 
The preacher enters the pulpit . 
He begins his oration in a drawling tone , and his hearers listen with silent attention . 
He grows warmer as he proceeds with his subject , and his gesticulation becomes proportionately violent . 
He clenches his fists , beats the book upon the desk before him , and swings his arms wildly about his head . 
The congregation murmur their acquiescence in his doctrines and a short groan , occasionally bears testimony to the moving nature of his eloquence . 
Encouraged by these symptoms of approval , and working himself up to a pitch of enthusiasm amounting almost to frenzy , he denounces sabbath breakers with the direst vengeance of offended Heaven . 
A great excitement is visible among his hearers , a scream is heard , and some young girl falls senseless on the floor . 
There is a momentary rustle , but it is only for a moment all eyes are turned towards the preacher . 
He pauses , passes his handkerchief across his face , and looks complacently round . 
But the morning service has concluded , and the streets are again crowded with people . 
The bakers' shops in the humbler suburbs especially , are filled with men , women , and children , each anxiously waiting for the Sunday dinner . 
I am afraid the smart servant of all work , who has been loitering at the corner of the square for the last ten minutes , is one of the latter class . 
Here he is , at last . 
The girl colours up , and puts out her hand with a very awkward affectation of indifference . 
The two young people who have just crossed the road , and are following this happy couple down the street , are a fair specimen of another class of Sunday pleasurers . 
The girl no one could possibly mistake . 
They turn towards the fields . 
The girl's countenance brightens , and an unwonted glow rises in her face . 
Carriages , gigs , phaetons , stanhopes , and vehicles of every description , glide smoothly on . 
The promenades are filled with loungers on foot , and the road is thronged with loungers on horseback . 
Persons of every class are crowded together , here , in one dense mass . 
The plebeian , who takes his pleasure on no day but Sunday , jostles the patrician , who takes his , from year's end to year's end . 
You look in vain for any outward signs of profligacy or debauchery . 
You see nothing before you but a vast number of people , the denizens of a large and crowded city , in the needful and rational enjoyment of air and exercise . 
The roads leading from the different places of suburban resort , are crowded with people on their return home , and the sound of merry voices rings through the gradually darkening fields . 
The evening is hot and sultry . 
The rich man throws open the sashes of his spacious dining room , and quaffs his iced wine in splendid luxury . 
There is a darker side to this picture , on which , so far from its being any part of my purpose to conceal it , I wish to lay particular stress . 
We need go no farther than St . 
Giles's , or Drury Lane , for sights and scenes of a most repulsive nature . 
And why is it , that all well disposed persons are shocked , and public decency scandalised , by such exhibitions ? These people are poor that is notorious . 
Their dwellings are necessarily uncomfortable , and to a certain degree unhealthy . 
Cleanliness might do much , but they are too crowded together , the streets are too narrow , and the rooms too small , to admit of their ever being rendered desirable habitations . 
They work very hard all the week . 
What stimulus have they ? Sunday comes , and with it a cessation of labour . 
They may walk , to be sure , but it is exactly the inducement to walk that they require . 
But you hold out no inducement , you offer no relief from listlessness , you provide nothing to amuse his mind , you afford him no means of exercising his body . 
Unwashed and unshaven , he saunters moodily about , weary and dejected . 
In lieu of the wholesome stimulus he might derive from nature , you drive him to the pernicious excitement to be gained from art . 
The proposed enactments of the bill are briefly these All work is prohibited on the Lord's day , under heavy penalties , increasing with every repetition of the offence . 
Member to bear testimony to his excellent motives , and that Noble Lord to regret that he could not although he had tried to do so adopt any portion of the bill . 
If the rich composed the whole population of this country , not a single comfort of one single man would be affected by it . 
It is directed exclusively , and without the exception of a solitary instance , against the amusements and recreations of the poor . 
This was the bait held out by the Hon . 
Baronet to a body of men , who cannot be supposed to have any very strong sympathies in common with the poor , because they cannot understand their sufferings or their struggles . 
This is the bait , which will in time prevail , unless public attention is awakened , and public feeling exerted , to prevent it . 
What class of persons does this affect ? The rich man ? No. Menial servants , both male and female , are specially exempted from the operation of the bill . 
'Menial servants' are among the poor people . 
The bill has no regard for them . 
The Baronet's dinner must be cooked on Sunday , the Bishop's horses must be groomed , and the Peer's carriage must be driven . 
There is a penalty for keeping open , houses of entertainment . 
, had determined to keep their houses and gardens open , through the whole Sunday afternoon , in defiance of the law . 
'Waiter ! says the father . 
'Pint of the best ale ! 'Yes , Sir . 
Away runs the waiter to the bar , and gets the ale from the landlord . 
Out comes the informer's note book penalty on the father for hiring , on the waiter for delivering , and on the landlord for selling , on the Lord's day . 
But it does not stop here . 
The waiter delivers the ale , and darts off , little suspecting the penalties in store for him . 
'Hollo , cries the father , 'waiter ! 'Yes , Sir . 
'Just get this little boy a biscuit , will you ? 'Yes , Sir . 
Again , in the description of the places of public resort which it is rendered criminal to attend on Sunday , there are no words comprising a very fashionable promenade . 
There is , in four words , a mock proviso , which affects to forbid travelling 'with any animal' on the Lord's day . 
This , however , is revoked , as relates to the rich man , by a subsequent provision . 
It would remove a great deal of temptation from the owners and captains of vessels . 
I now beg his attention to the clauses of exemption . 
They are two in number . 
It declares , 'that nothing in this act contained , shall extend to works of piety , charity , or necessity . 
It is not 'necessary' to him Heaven knows , he very often goes long enough without it . 
This is the plain English of the clause . 
Let us suppose such a bill as this , to have actually passed both branches of the legislature to have received the royal assent and to have come into operation . 
Imagine its effect in a great city like London . 
Sunday comes , and brings with it a day of general gloom and austerity . 
The day which his Maker intended as a blessing , man has converted into a curse . 
Instead of being hailed by him as his period of relaxation , he finds it remarkable only as depriving him of every comfort and enjoyment . 
The fire blazes high in the kitchen chimney of these well fed hypocrites , and the rich steams of the savoury dinner scent the air . 
People have grown sullen and obstinate , and are becoming disgusted with the faith which condemns them to such a day as this , once in every seven . 
And as you cannot make people religious by Act of Parliament , or force them to church by constables , they display their feeling by staying away . 
Turn into the streets , and mark the rigid gloom that reigns over everything around . 
The roads are empty , the fields are deserted , the houses of entertainment are closed . 
Bend your steps through the narrow and thickly inhabited streets , and observe the sallow faces of the men and women who are lounging at the doors , or lolling from the windows . 
See how the men all rush to join the crowd that are making their way down the street , and how loud the execrations of the mob become as they draw nearer . 
The dispute grows warmer and fiercer , until at last some of the more furious among the crowd , rush forward to restore the goods to their owner . 
But let those who advocate the cause of fanaticism , reflect well upon the probable issue of their endeavours . 
They may by perseverance , succeed with Parliament . 
Let them ponder on the probability of succeeding with the people . 
You may deny the concession of a political question for a time , and a nation will bear it patiently . 
It is the custom to affect a deference for the motives of those who advocate these measures , and a respect for the feelings by which they are actuated . 
They do not deserve it . 
If they legislate in ignorance , they are criminal and dishonest if they do so with their eyes open , they commit wilful injustice in either case , they bring religion into contempt . 
But they do NOT legislate in ignorance . 
Public prints , and public men , have pointed out to them again and again , the consequences of their proceedings . 
If they persist in thrusting themselves forward , let those consequences rest upon their own heads , and let them be content to stand upon their own merits . 
But this would be an argument against any holiday at all . 
If his holiday had been Wednesday instead of Sunday , and he had devoted it to the same improper uses , it would have been productive of the same results . 
It is too much to judge of the character of a whole people , by the confessions of the very worst members of society . 
It is not fair , to cry down things which are harmless in themselves , because evil disposed men may turn them to bad account . 
was published , worthy to be knowne and considered of all men , especially such who are guilty of the sinne , or archpatrons thereof . 
'A woman about Northampton , the same day that she heard the booke for sports read , went immediately , and having . 
brought her adultory and that murther . 
Shee was according to the Law both of God and man , put to death . 
Much sinne and misery followeth upon Sabbath breaking . 
Such 'sports' have taken place in Dissenting Chapels before now but religion has never been blamed in consequence nor has it been proposed to shut up the chapels on that account . 
The next morning was Sunday and I walked out , towards the church . 
Groups of people the whole population of the little hamlet apparently were hastening in the same direction . 
Cheerful and good humoured congratulations were heard on all sides , as neighbours overtook each other , and walked on in company . 
The discourse was plain , unpretending , and well adapted to the comprehension of the hearers . 
This , to guess from the homely bows , and other rustic expressions of gratitude , the old gentleman readily conceded . 
I was in the very height of the pleasure which the contemplation of this scene afforded me , when I saw the old clergyman making his way towards us . 
Here , again , we are called upon to yield to bare assertions on matters of belief and opinion , as if they were established and undoubted facts . 
The great majority of the people who make holiday on Sunday now , are industrious , orderly , and well behaved persons . 
The propriety of opening the British Museum to respectable people on Sunday , has lately been the subject of some discussion . 
I think it would puzzle the most austere of the Sunday legislators to assign any valid reason for opposing so sensible a proposition . 
But attendants would be necessary , and a few men would be employed upon the Sabbath . 
The spacious saloons would be swarming with practical men humble in appearance , but destined , perhaps , to become the greatest inventors and philosophers of their age . 
The drunken and dissipated , deprived of any excuse for their misconduct , would no longer excite pity but disgust . 
This is what Sunday might be made , and what it might be made without impiety or profanation . 
