Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
I of III ? ? TABLE OF CONTENTS . 
THE SEQUEL TO A DIVORCE . 
WAS IT A DREAM ? . 
THE DIARY OF A MADMAN . 
A COUNTRY EXCURSION At the close of the last volume will be found a complete list of the French Titles of De Maupassant's writings , with their English equivalents . 
GUY DE MAUPASSANT Of the French writers of romance of the latter part of the nineteenth century no one made a reputation as quickly as did Guy de Maupassant . 
Not one has preserved that reputation with more ease , not only during life , but in death . 
None so completely hides his personality in his glory . 
We know , too , that he passionately loved a strenuous physical life and long journeys , particularly long journeys upon the sea . 
He owned a little sailing yacht , named after one of his books , Bel Ami , in which he used to sojourn for weeks and months . 
These meager details are almost the only ones that have been gathered as food for the curiosity of the public . 
The very number of his volumes is a protest to the contrary . 
One could not write so large a number of pages in so small a number of years without the virtue of industry , a virtue incompatible with habits of dissipation . 
This does not mean that the writer of these great romances had no love for pleasure and had not tasted the world , but that for him these were secondary things . 
The psychology of his work ought , then , to find an interpretation other than that afforded by wholly false or exaggerated anecdotes . 
I wish to indicate here how this work , illumined by the three or four positive data which I have given , appears to me to demand it . 
There are many chances for an artist of his kind , however timid , or for one who has some grief , to show the depth of his emotion . 
To take up again only two of the names just cited , this was the case with the author of Terres Vierges , and with the writer of Colomba . 
Nine times out of ten , what is the subject of these stories to which freedom of style gives the appearance of health ? A tragic episode . 
His imagination aims to represent the human being as imprisoned in a situation at once insupportable and inevitable . 
The spell of this grief and trouble exerts such a power upon the writer that he ends stories commenced in pleasantry with some sinister drama . 
Let me instance Saint Antonin , A Midnight Revel , The Little Cask , and Old Amable . 
You close the book at the end of these vigorous sketches , and feel how surely they point to constant suffering on the part of him who executed them . 
But this is not the whole . 
in him nihilism finds itself coexistent with an animal energy so fresh and so intense that for a long time it deceives the closest observer . 
It was then that this frightful thunderbolt destroyed him . 
It is not exact to say that the lofty genius of De Maupassant was that of an absolutely sane man . 
We comprehend it to day , and , on re reading him , we find traces everywhere of his final malady . 
But it is exact to say that this wounded genius was , by a singular circumstance , the genius of a robust man . 
A physiologist would without doubt explain this anomaly by the coexistence of a nervous lesion , light at first , with a muscular , athletic temperament . 
Whatever the cause , the effect is undeniable . 
The skilled and dainty pessimism of De Maupassant was accompanied by a vigor and physique very unusual . 
Alas ! through all our senses slips life itself away . 
This ending of the Water's Edge is less sinister than the murder and the vision of horror which terminate the pantheistic hymn of the Rustic Venus . 
Considered as documents revealing the cast of mind of him who composed them , these two lyrical essays are especially significant , since they were spontaneous . 
It is this constant and involuntary antithesis which gives unique value to those Norman scenes which have contributed so much to his glory . 
These meetings of a pupil and a master , both great , are indeed rare . 
They present , in fact , some troublesome conditions , the first of which is a profound analogy between two types of thought . 
From generation to generation , envy reascends no less than she redescends . 
For the honor of French men of letters , let us add that this exceptional phenomenon has manifested itself twice in the nineteenth century . 
Merimee , whom I have also named , received from Stendhal , at twenty , the same benefits that Maupassant received from Flaubert . 
The author of Une Vie and the writer of Clara Jozul resemble each other , besides , in a singular and analogous circumstance . 
Both achieved renown at the first blow , and by a masterpiece which they were able to equal but never surpass . 
Both were misanthropes early in life , and practised to the end the ancient advice that the disciple of Beyle carried upon his seal gr memneso apistein Remember to distrust . 
Both were worldly , yet still loved a wanderer's life both joined to a constant taste for luxury an irresistible desire for solitude . 
Both belonged to the extreme left of the literature of their epoch , but kept themselves from excess and used with a judgment marvelously sure the sounder principles of their school . 
The first theory bears upon the choice of personages and the story of the romance , the second upon the character of the style . 
The son of a physician , and brought up in the rigors of scientific method , Flaubert believed this method to be efficacious in art as in science . 
He therefore naturally wished to make the most scrupulous and detailed observation of the environment . 
Beyond everything he tried to select details that were eminently significant . 
Consequently he was of the opinion that the romance writer should discard all that lessened this significance , that is , extraordinary events and singular heroes . 
And not only middle class traits , but middle class adventures . 
We know with what passionate care he worked at his phrases , and how indefatigably he changed them over and over again . 
It helped to make more intense and more systematic that dainty yet dangerous pessimism which in him was innate . 
The mid dle class personage , in wearisome society like ours , is always a caricature , and the happenings are nearly always vulgar . 
When one studies a great number of them , one finishes by looking at humanity from the angle of disgust and despair . 
The philosophy of the romances and novels of De Maupassant is so continuously and profoundly surprising that one becomes overwhelmed by it . 
All that portion of the sentimental and moral world which in itself is the highest remains closed to it . 
In revenge , this philosophy finds itself in a relation cruelly exact with the half civilization of our day . 
There , as elsewhere , the degenerate is everywhere a degenerate who gives the impression of being an ordinary man . 
There are quantities of men of this stamp in large cities . 
Just as it is impossible to comprehend the Rome of the Caesars without the work of Petronius , so is it impossible to fully comprehend the France of without these stories of Maupassant . 
If Maupassant had only painted , in general fashion , the characters and the phase of literature mentioned he would not be distinguished from other writers of the group called naturalists . 
His true glory is in the extraordinary superiority of his art . 
The latter , in his best pages , is always strained . 
To use the expressive metaphor of the Greek athletes , he smells of the oil . 
He is an athlete , a runner , but one who drags at his feet a terrible weight . 
He is in the race only for the prize of effort , an effort of which every motion reveals the intensity . 
Maupassant , on the other hand , if he suffered from a nervous lesion , gave no sign of it , except in his heart . 
His intelligence was bright and lively , and above all , his imagination , served by senses always on the alert , preserved for some years an astonishing freshness of direct vision . 
If his art was due to Flaubert , it is no more belittling to him than if one call Raphael an imitator of Perugini . 
Maupassant's phrasing , however dramatic it may be , remains easy and flowing . 
Maupassant always sought for large and harmonious rhythm in his deliberate choice of terms , always chose sound , wholesome language , with a constant care for technical beauty . 
Inheriting from his master an instrument already forged , he wielded it with a surer skill . 
His method , so deeply and simply French , succeeds in giving an indescribable tang to his descriptions . 
It is enough that the critics of to day place Guy de Maupassant among our classic writers . 
He has his place in the ranks of pure French genius , with the Regniers , the La Fontaines , the Molieres . 
And those signs of secret ill divined everywhere under this wholesome prose surround it for those who knew and loved him with a pathos that is inexpressible . 
Not until he had attained the age of thirty did he venture on publication , challenging criticism for the first time with a volume of poems . 
Many and various have been the judgments passed upon Maupassant's work . 
The school of romantic realism which was founded by Merimee and Balzac found its culmination in De Maupassant . 
The answer to this criticism is obvious . 
But then the surgeon's scalpel never hesitates at giving pain , and pain is often the road to health and ease . 
Some of Maupassant's short stories are sermons more forcible than any moral dissertation could ever be . 
Of De Maupassant's sustained efforts Une Vie may bear the palm . 
This romance has the distinction of having changed Tolstoi from an adverse critic into a warm admirer of the author . 
Maupassant is a man whose vision has penetrated the silent depths of human life , and from that vantage ground interprets the struggle of humanity . 
Bel Ami appeared almost two years after Une Vie , that is to say , about . 
Psychologically acute as ever , and as perfect in style and sincerity as before , we miss the note of anger . 
Fatality is the keynote , and yet , sounding low , we detect a genuine subtone of sorrow . 
This may account for some of the strained situations we find in his later romances . 
Vigorous in frame and hearty as he was , the atmosphere of his mental processes must have been vitiated to produce the dainty but dangerous pessimism that pervades some of his later work . 
This was partly a consequence of his honesty and partly of mental despair . 
He never accepted other people's views on the questions of life . 
Maupassant was essentially a worshiper of the eternal feminine . 
He was persuaded that without the continual presence of the gentler sex man's existence would be an emotionally silent wilderness . 
No other French writer has described and analyzed so minutely and comprehensively the many and various motives and moods that shape the conduct of a woman in life . 
Take for instance the wonderfully subtle analysis of a woman's heart as wife and mother that we find in Une Vie . 
But the catastrophe never occurs . 
It was necessary to stand poised upon the brink of the precipice to realize the depth of the abyss and feel the terror of the fall . 
Closely allied to this phase of Maupassant's nature was the peculiar feeling of loneliness that every now and then breaks irresistibly forth in the course of some short story . 
How acutely he felt his failure to attain his deliverance may be drawn from his wail that mankind has no UNIVERSAL measure of happiness . 
And he concludes by asserting that the happiest artist is he who approaches most closely to the truth of things as he sees them through his own particular illusion . 
He had no patience with writers who in striving to present life as a whole purposely omit episodes that reveal the influence of the senses . 
As well , he says , refrain from describing the effect of intoxicating perfumes upon man as omit the influence of beauty on the temperament of man . 
De Maupassant's dramatic instinct was supremely powerful . 
The description of the ride of Madame Tellier and her companions in a country cart through a Norman landscape is an admirable example . 
And yet with all his vividness of description , De Maupassant is always sober and brief . 
and the Paris middle classes , and those that represent the life of the fashionable world , as well as the weird and fantastic ideas of the later years of his career . 
Of these three groups the tales of the Norman peasantry perhaps rank highest . 
He depicts the Norman farmer in surprisingly free and bold strokes , revealing him in all his caution , astuteness , rough gaiety , and homely virtue . 
The tragic stage of De Maupassant's life may , I think , be set down as beginning just before the drama of Musotte was issued , in conjunction with Jacques Normand , in . 
Doubtless he resorted to unwise methods for the dispelling of physical lassitude or for surcease from troubling mental problems . 
To this period belong such weird and horrible fancies as are contained in the short stories known as He and The Diary of a Madman . 
But with these yearningly prophetic gleams came a period of mental death . 
Then the physical veil was torn aside and for Guy de Maupassant the riddle of existence was answered . 
The major was a giant , with broad shoulders , and a long , fair beard , which hung like a cloth on to his chest . 
His whole , solemn person suggested the idea of a military peacock , a peacock who was carrying his tail spread out on to his breast . 
He had lost two front teeth one night , though he could not quite remember how . 
at a draught , while he listened to his subordinate's report of what had occurred and then they both went to the window , and declared that it was a very unpleasant outlook . 
Since he had been in France , his comrades had called him nothing but Mademoiselle Fifi . 
When they had finished eating , and were smoking and drinking , they began , as usual , to talk about the dull life they were leading . 
What sort of an entertainment , captain ? the major asked , taking his pipe out of his mouth . 
I will arrange all that , commandant , the baron said . 
I will send Le Devoir to Rouen , who will bring us some ladies . 
I know where they can be found . 
We will have supper here , as all the materials are at hand , and , at least , we shall have a jolly evening . 
Graf von Farlsberg shrugged his shoulders with a smile You must surely be mad , my friend . 
But all the other officers got up , surrounded their chief , and said Let the captain have his own way , commandant it is terribly dull here . 
And the major ended by yielding . 
Very well , he replied , and the baron immediately sent for Le Devoir . 
He got up , and sat down again , and his bright eyes seemed to be looking for something to destroy . 
Suddenly , looking at the lady with the mustaches , the young fellow pulled out his revolver , and said You shall not see it . 
And without leaving his seat he aimed , and with two successive bullets cut out both the eyes of the portrait . 
Let us make a mine ! he then exclaimed , and the conversation was suddenly interrupted , as if they had found some fresh and powerful subject of interest . 
The mine was his invention , his method of destruction , and his favorite amusement . 
Then he lighted it , and took this infernal machine into the next room but he came back immediately and shut the door . 
The Germans all stood expectantly , their faces full of childish , smiling curiosity , and as soon as the explosion had shaken the chateau , they all rushed in at once . 
The moist air blew into the room , and brought a sort of spray with it , which powdered their beards . 
The bells had not rung since their arrival . 
That was the only resistance which the invaders had met with in the neighborhood . 
Only little Count Wilhelm would have liked to have forced them to ring the bells . 
Then they separated , each to his own duties , while the captain had plenty to do in seeing about the dinner . 
When they met again , as it was growing dark , they began to laugh at seeing each other as dandified and smart as on the day of a grand review . 
In spite of the rain , they left the window open , and one of them went to listen from time to time . 
At a quarter past six the baron said he heard a rumbling in the distance . 
They all rushed down , and soon the wagon drove up at a gallop with its four horses , splashed up to their backs , steaming and panting . 
So they resigned themselves to the men as they did to the state of affairs . 
It is part of our business , so it must be done , they said as they drove along no doubt to allay some slight , secret scruples of conscience . 
Then he said Number One , called Pamela , is adjudged to the commandant . 
There were only many kisses expectant kisses . 
Suddenly Rachel choked , and began to cough until the tears came into her eyes , while smoke came through her nostrils . 
Under pretense of kissing her , the count had blown a whiff of tobacco into her mouth . 
She did not fly into a rage , and did not say a word , but she looked at her possessor with latent hatred in her dark eyes . 
They sat down to dinner . 
They did not understand him , however , and their intelligence did not seem to be awakened until he uttered nasty words and broad expressions , which were mangled by his accent . 
The commandant was the only one who put any restraint upon himself . 
The girls did not protest , for they were reduced to silence , and were afraid . 
Something that he was going to say , was cut short in his throat , and he sat there , with his mouth half open , and a terrible look in his eyes . 
In two minutes , Mademoiselle Fifi was dead . 
Fritz and Otto drew their swords and wanted to kill the women , who threw themselves at their feet and clung to their knees . 
With some difficulty the major stopped the slaughter , and had the four terrified girls locked up in a room under the care of two soldiers . 
Then he organized the pursuit of the fugitive , as carefully as if he were about to engage in a skirmish , feeling quite sure that she would be caught . 
In the morning they all returned . 
The general had said One does not go to war in order to amuse oneself , and to caress prostitutes . 
At night it sounded again , and the next day , and every day it rang as much as anyone could desire . 
Sometimes even , it would start at night , and sound gently through the darkness , seized by strange joy , awakened , one could not tell why . 
She remained there until the German troops departed , and then one evening the priest borrowed the baker's cart , and himself drove his prisoner to Rouen . 
Paris had just heard of the disaster of Sedan . 
All France was panting from a madness that lasted until the time of the Commonwealth . 
Everybody was playing at soldier from one end of the country to the other . 
Each believed himself called upon to play a great role in military affairs . 
The cafes of the smallest villages , full of tradesmen in uniform , resembled barracks or field hospitals . 
Now , the town of Canneville did not yet know the exciting news of the army and the Capital . 
It had , however , been greatly agitated for a month over an encounter between the rival political parties . 
In two weeks he had induced sixty three men to volunteer in defense of their country married men , fathers of families , prudent farmers and merchants of the town . 
These he drilled every morning in front of the mayor's window . 
On the morning of the fifth of September , in uniform , his revolver on the table , the doctor gave consultation to an old peasant couple . 
When the peasant explained that this sickness commenced with a feeling as if ants were running up and down in his legs , the doctor exclaimed Hold your peace . 
I have spent too much time with you stupid people . 
He stuttered , so rapidly did he try to speak My boots , my saber my cartridge box and the Spanish dagger , which is on my night table . 
Hurry now ! The obstinate peasant , taking advantage of the moment's silence , began again This seemed like some cysts that hurt me when I walked . 
The exasperated physician shouted Hold your peace ! For Heaven's sake ! If you had washed your feet oftener , it would not have happened . 
Send Torcheboeuf to me , too , with his drum . 
Quick , now ! Quick ! And when Celeste was gone , he collected his thoughts and prepared to surmount the difficulties of the situation . 
The three men arrived together . 
They were in their working clothes . 
The Commander , who had expected to see them in uniform , had a fit of surprise . 
You know nothing , then ? The Emperor has been taken prisoner . 
My position is delicate , not to say perilous . 
He reflected for some minutes before the astonished faces of his subordinates and then continued It is necessary to act , not to hesitate . 
Minutes now are worth hours at other times . 
Everything depends upon promptness of decision . 
You , Picard , go and find the curate and get him to ring the bell to bring the people together , while I get ahead of them . 
You , Torcheboeuf , beat the call to assemble the militia in arms , in the square , from even as far as the hamlets of Gerisaie and Salmare . 
You , Pommell put on your uniform at once , that is , the jacket and cap . 
We , together , are going to take possession of the mairie and summon M. de Varnetot to transfer his authority to me . 
Do you understand ? Yes . 
Act , then , and promptly . 
I will accompany you to your house , Pommel , since we are to work together . 
While the doctor stopped , half stupefied , the four men entered the mayor's house and the door closed behind them . 
We are forestalled , murmured the doctor it will be necessary now to wait for re enforcements nothing can be done for a quarter of an hour . 
Here Lieutenant Picard appeared The curate refuses to obey , said he he has even shut himself up in the church with the beadle and the porter . 
He crossed the square with disciplined step , and then disappeared on a road leading to the country . 
The butcher , the baker , and the apothecary , feeling a little uncertain , put up their shutters and closed their shops . 
The grocery alone remained open . 
Meanwhile the men of the militia were arriving , little by little , variously clothed , but all wearing caps , the cap constituting the whole uniform of the corps . 
They were armed with their old , rusty guns , guns that had hung on chimney pieces in kitchens for thirty years , and looked quite like a detachment of country soldiers . 
When there were about thirty around him , the Commander explained in a few words , the state of affairs . 
Then , turning toward his major , he said Now , we must act . 
But the lieutenant was a master mason and refused . 
You are a scamp , you are . 
Trying to make a target of me ! Those fellows in there are good shots , you know that . 
No , thanks ! Execute your commissions yourself ! The Commander turned red I order you to go in the name of discipline , said he . 
I am not spoiling my features without knowing why , the lieutenant returned . 
Men of influence , in a group near by , were heard laughing . 
One of them called out You are right , Picard , it is not the proper time . 
He scarcely knew what to make of it . 
As soon as the last were out , the doors closed . 
The Commander began Monsieur , you are aware of the great events which have changed the system of Government . 
The party you represent no longer exists . 
The side I represent now comes into power . 
As mayor , I am at home in the mairie , and there I shall stay . 
Furthermore , just try to put me out . 
And he closed the window . 
The Commander returned to his troops . 
But , before explaining anything , measuring Lieutenant Picard from head to foot , he said You are a numskull , you are , a goose , the disgrace of the army . 
The Lieutenant replied I'll attend to that myself . 
And he went over to a group of muttering civilians . 
What should he do ? Make an assault ? Would his men obey him ? And then , was he surely in the right ? An idea burst upon him . 
Then he returned to his army corps and , drawing ten francs out of his pocket , said Now , my friends , go and eat and drink a little something . 
Only leave here a detachment of ten men , so that no one leaves the mayor's house . 
Ex Lieutenant Picard chatting with the watch maker , overheard this . 
With a sneer he remarked Pardon me , but if they go out , there will be an opportunity for you to go in . 
Otherwise , I can't see how you are to get in there ! The doctor made no reply , but went away to luncheon . 
In the afternoon , he disposed of offices all about town , having the air of knowing of an impending surprise . 
Many times he passed before the doors of the mairie and of the church , without noticing anything suspicious one could have believed the two buildings empty . 
The butcher , the baker , and the apothecary re opened their shops , and stood gossiping on the steps . 
If the Emperor had been taken prisoner , there must be a traitor somewhere . 
They did not feel sure of the revenue of a new Republic . 
Toward nine o'clock , the doctor returned quietly and alone to the mayor's residence , persuaded that his adversary had retired . 
Another day dawned without any change in the situation . 
The militia in arms occupied the square . 
The inhabitants stood around awaiting the solution . 
People from neighboring villages came to look on . 
Finally , the doctor , realizing that his reputation was at stake , resolved to settle the thing in one way or another . 
The door opened slightly the hand of a man received the message , and the girl returned , blushing and ready to weep , from being stared at . 
The doctor demanded , with stirring voice A little silence , if you please . 
And , after the populace became quiet , he continued proudly Here is a communication which I have received from the Government . 
And raising the dispatch , he read Old mayor deposed . 
Advise us of what is most necessary , Instructions later . 
For the Sub Prefect , SAPIN , Counselor . 
His heart was beating with joy . 
The doctor grew a little pale . 
If they would not go out in fact , he must go ahead now . 
It was not only his right , but his duty . 
And he looked anxiously at the house of the mayoralty , hoping that he might see the door open and his adversary show himself . 
But the door remained closed . 
What was to be done ? The crowd was increasing , surrounding the militia . 
One thought , especially , tortured the doctor . 
And their aim was good , very good ! Picard had reminded him of that . 
But an idea shone in upon him , and turning to Pommel , he said Go , quickly , and ask the apothecary to send me a napkin and a pole . 
The doctor was going to make a political banner , a white one , that would perhaps , rejoice the heart of that old legitimist , the mayor . 
Pommel returned with the required linen and a broom handle . 
With some pieces of string , they improvised a standard , which Massarel seized in both hands . 
Again , he advanced toward the house of mayoralty , bearing the standard before him . 
When in front of the door , he called out Monsieur de Varnetot ! The door opened suddenly , and M. de Varnetot and the three guards appeared on the threshold . 
The doctor recoiled , instinctively . 
Then , he saluted his enemy courteously , and announced , almost strangled by emotion I have come , sir , to communicate to you the instructions I have just received . 
And , biting off each word , he declared I do not wish to have the appearance of serving the Republic for a single day . 
Massarel , amazed , made no reply and M , de Varnetot , walking off at a rapid pace , disappeared around the corner , followed closely by his escort . 
Then the doctors slightly dismayed , returned to the crowd . 
When he was near enough to be heard , he cried Hurrah ! Hurrah ! The Republic triumphs all along the line ! But no emotion was manifested . 
The people are free ! You are free and independent ! Do you understand ? Be proud of it ! The listless villagers looked at him with eyes unlit by glory . 
And soon the man reappears , carrying on his right shoulder , Napoleon III . 
in plaster , and holding in his left hand a straw bottomed chair . 
An expiring country groans under your feet . 
Destiny has called you the Avenger . 
Defeat and shame cling to you . 
You fall conquered , a prisoner to the Prussians , and upon the ruins of the crumbling Empire the young and radiant Republic arises , picking up your broken sword . 
But there was no voice , no sound . 
The bewildered peasants remained silent . 
They remained thus face to face , Napoleon on the chair , the doctor in front of him about three steps away . 
Suddenly the Commander grew angry . 
No inspiration , no further word would come . 
But he drew his pistol , advanced two steps , and , taking aim , fired at the late monarch . 
The ball entered the forehead , leaving a little , black hole , like a spot , nothing more . 
Then he fired a second shot , which made a second hole , then , a third and then , without stopping , he emptied his revolver . 
The brow of Napoleon disappeared in white powder , but the eyes , the nose , and the fine points of the mustaches remained intact . 
And he went toward his own house with great strides , as if he were pursued . 
His maid , when he appeared , told him that some patients had been waiting in his office for three hours . 
There were the two varicose vein patients , who had returned at daybreak , obstinate but patient . 
The old man immediately began his explanation This began by a feeling like ants running up and down the legs . 
His modesty surprised me all the more , because of all performers who are generally infatuated with their own skill , he was the most wonderfully clever one I had met . 
But here there was no trick and no deception , and no dust thrown into the eyes . 
It was done in good earnest and in all sincerity . 
The knives were as sharp as razors , and the old mountebank planted them close to the flesh , exactly in the angle between the fingers . 
He must think us very stupid , they said . 
How could he possibly aim without having his eyes open ? And they thought there must be imperceptible holes in the oilcloth , a sort of latticework concealed in the material . 
It was useless for him to allow the public to examine the mask for themselves before the exhibition began . 
It was all very well that they could not discover any trick , but they were only all the more convinced that they were being tricked . 
I told him so , while expressing my admiration to him and he had been touched by my open admiration and above all by the justice I had done him . 
He had been especially struck by the certainty which I expressed that any trickery must become impossible to him . 
Yes , he said to me quite impossible ! Impossible to a degree which you cannot imagine . 
If I were to tell you ! But where would be the use ? His face clouded over , and his eyes filled with tears . 
I did not venture to force myself into his confidence . 
My looks , however , were not so discreet as my silence , and begged him to speak so he responded to their mute appeal . 
After all , he said why should I not tell you about it ? You will understand me . 
And he added , with a look of sudden ferocity She understood it , at any rate ! Who ? I asked . 
My strumpet of a wife , he replied . 
For that is a natural fault , is it not , and may be pardoned ? But the other thing was a crime , a horrible crime . 
I had always attributed that sort of reply to an artifice which the occasion required . 
What do you want to do ? Confound it ! Cannot you guess ? I want to kill her . 
To kill her , because she has Because she has deceived me ? No , no , not that , I tell you again . 
I thought I might be able to do it , for you see I had the perfect right to do so . 
My knives cut very well ! And when once the jugular is cut good bye . 
'My wife ! My poor wife ! I should say , sobbing . 
And you must allow that such a revenge would he a very nice revenge , the best possible revenge which I could have with assured impunity . 
I am not frightened of blood , and that I have proved already , though it would be useless to tell you how and where . 
But I had no necessity to prove it to her , for she knows that I am capable of a good many things even of crime especially of one crime . 
And she was not frightened ? No. She merely replied that I could not do what I said you understand . 
For I really have wished to have the revenge which I have dreamed of , and which I thought so easy . 
I have tried with all my might to make them deviate half an inch , just enough to cut her throat . 
I wanted to , and I have never succeeded , never . 
And always the slut's horrible laugh makes fun of me , always , always . 
I love the house in which I grew up . 
On the left , down yonder , lies Rouen , populous Rouen with its blue roofs massing under pointed , Gothic towers . 
After two English schooners , whose red flags fluttered toward the sky , there came a magnificent Brazilian three master it was perfectly white and wonderfully clean and shining . 
I saluted it , I hardly know why , except that the sight of the vessel gave me great pleasure . 
I have had a slight feverish attack for the last few days , and I feel ill , or rather I feel low spirited . 
I wake up in the best of spirits , with an inclination to sing in my heart . 
Our senses are fairies who work the miracle of changing that movement into noise , and by that metamorphosis give birth to music , which makes the mute agitation of nature a harmony . 
I have just come from consulting my medical man , for I can no longer get any sleep . 
He found that my pulse was high , my eyes dilated , my nerves highly strung , but no alarming symptoms . 
I must have a course of shower baths and of bromide of potassium . 
No change ! My state is really very peculiar . 
As the evening comes on , an incomprehensible feeling of disquietude seizes me , just as if night concealed some terrible menace toward me . 
I dine quickly , and then try to read , but I do not understand the words , and can scarcely distinguish the letters . 
Then I walk up and down my drawing room , oppressed by a feeling of confused and irresistible fear , a fear of sleep and a fear of my bed . 
About ten o'clock I go up to my room . 
As soon as I have entered I lock and bolt the door . 
I am frightened of what ? Up till the present time I have been frightened of nothing . 
I sleep a long time two or three hours perhaps then a dream no a nightmare lays hold on me . 
My state has grown worse . 
What is the matter with me ? The bromide does me no good , and the shower baths have no effect whatever . 
Sometimes , in order to tire myself out , though I am fatigued enough already , I go for a walk in the forest of Roumare . 
Suddenly it seemed as if I were being followed , that somebody was walking at my heels , close , quite close to me , near enough to touch me . 
I turned round suddenly , but I was alone . 
Why ? And then I began to turn round on one heel very quickly , just like a top . 
I nearly fell down , and opened my eyes the trees were dancing round me and the earth heaved I was obliged to sit down . 
Then , ah ! I no longer remembered how I had come ! What a strange idea ! What a strange , strange idea ! I did not the least know . 
I started off to the right , and got back into the avenue which had led me into the middle of the forest . 
I have had a terrible night . 
I shall go away for a few weeks , for no doubt a journey will set me up again . 
I have come back , quite cured , and have had a most delightful trip into the bargain . 
I have been to Mont Saint Michel , which I had not seen before . 
I uttered a cry of astonishment . 
The sun had just disappeared , and under the still flaming sky stood out the outline of that fantastic rock which bears on its summit a picturesque monument . 
At daybreak I went to it . 
The tide was low , as it had been the night before , and I saw that wonderful abbey rise up before me as I approached it . 
After several hours' walking , I reached the enormous mass of rock which supports the little town , dominated by the great church . 
I entered this gigantic granite jewel , which is as light in its effect as a bit of lace and is covered with towers , with slender belfries to which spiral staircases ascend . 
The flying buttresses raise strange heads that bristle with chimeras . 
When I had reached the summit . 
And then the monk told me stories , all the old stories belonging to the place legends , nothing but legends . 
One of them struck me forcibly . 
Do you believe it ? I asked the monk . 
But have you ever seen it , and can you see it ? Yet it exists for all that . 
I was silent before this simple reasoning . 
That man was a philosopher , or perhaps a fool I could not say which exactly , so I held my tongue . 
What he had said had often been in my own thoughts . 
I have slept badly certainly there is some feverish influence here , for my coachman is suffering in the same way as I am . 
Since your departure , Monsieur , there has been a spell over me . 
However , the other servants are all well , but I am very frightened of having another attack , myself . 
I am decidedly taken again for my old nightmares have returned . 
Last night I felt somebody leaning on me who was sucking my life from between my lips with his mouth . 
Yes , he was sucking it out of my neck like a leech would have done . 
Then he got up , satiated , and I woke up , so beaten , crushed , and annihilated that I could not move . 
If this continues for a few days , I shall certainly go away again . 
Then I went to bed and fell into one of my terrible sleeps , from which I was aroused in about two hours by a still more terrible shock . 
Having recovered my senses , I was thirsty again , so I lighted a candle and went to the table on which my water bottle was . 
I lifted it up and tilted it over my glass , but nothing came out . 
I have just been through some surprising ordeals . 
Undoubtedly I must be mad ! And yet ! On July , before going to bed , I put some wine , milk , water , bread , and strawberries on my table . 
Somebody drank I drank all the water and a little of the milk , but neither the wine , nor the bread , nor the strawberries were touched . 
On the seventh of July I renewed the same experiment , with the same results , and on July I left out the water and the milk and nothing was touched . 
Lastly , on July I put only water and milk on my table , taking care to wrap up the bottles in white muslin and to tie down the stoppers . 
Then I rubbed my lips , my beard , and my hands with pencil lead , and went to bed . 
Deep slumber seized me , soon followed by a terrible awakening . 
I had not moved , and my sheets were not marked . 
I rushed to the table . 
The muslin round the bottles remained intact I undid the string , trembling with fear . 
All the water had been drunk , and so had the milk ! Ah ! Great God ! I must start for Paris immediately . 
In any case , my mental state bordered on madness , and twenty four hours of Paris sufficed to restore me to my equilibrium . 
Yesterday after doing some business and paying some visits , which instilled fresh and invigorating mental air into me , I wound up my evening at the Theatre Francais . 
A drama by Alexander Dumas the Younger was being acted , and his brilliant and powerful play completed my cure . 
Certainly solitude is dangerous for active minds . 
We need men who can think and can talk , around us . 
When we are alone for a long time , we people space with phantoms . 
I returned along the boulevards to my hotel in excellent spirits . 
How weak our mind is how quickly it is terrified and unbalanced as soon as we are confronted with a small , incomprehensible fact . 
Instead of dismissing the problem with We do not understand because we cannot find the cause , we immediately imagine terrible mysteries and supernatural powers . 
I walked through the streets , and the crackers and flags amused me like a child . 
Still , it is very foolish to make merry on a set date , by Government decree . 
People are like a flock of sheep , now steadily patient , now in ferocious revolt . 
Say to it Amuse yourself , and it amuses itself . 
Say to it Go and fight with your neighbor , and it goes and fights . 
Say to it Vote for the Emperor , and it votes for the Emperor then say to it Vote for the Republic , and it votes for the Republic . 
I saw some things yesterday that troubled me very much . 
I was dining at my cousin's , Madame Sable , whose husband is colonel of the Seventy sixth Chasseurs at Limoges . 
There were two young women there , one of whom had married a medical man , Dr . 
Parent , who devotes himself a great deal to nervous diseases and to the extraordinary manifestations which just now experiments in hypnotism and suggestion are producing . 
As long as that intellect remained in its elementary stage , this intercourse with invisible spirits assumed forms which were commonplace though terrifying . 
Nothing is truer than what Voltaire says 'If God made man in His own image , man has certainly paid Him back again . 
But for rather more than a century , men seem to have had a presentiment of something new . 
Mesmer and some others have put us on an unexpected track , and within the last two or three years especially , we have arrived at results really surprising . 
My cousin , who is also very incredulous , smiled , and Dr . 
Parent said to her Would you like me to try and send you to sleep , Madame ? Yes , certainly . 
She sat down in an easy chair , and he began to look at her fixedly , as if to fascinate her . 
I suddenly felt myself somewhat discomposed my heart beat rapidly and I had a choking feeling in my throat . 
I saw that Madame Sable's eyes were growing heavy , her mouth twitched , and her bosom heaved , and at the end of ten minutes she was asleep . 
Go behind her , the doctor said to me so I took a seat behind her . 
He put a visiting card into her hands , and said to her This is a looking glass what do you see in it ? She replied I see my cousin . 
What is he doing ? He is twisting his mustache . 
And now ? He is taking a photograph out of his pocket . 
Whose photograph is it ? His own . 
That was true , for the photograph had been given me that same evening at the hotel . 
What is his attitude in this portrait ? He is standing up with his hat in his hand . 
She saw these things in that card , in that piece of white pasteboard , as if she had seen them in a looking glass . 
Then he woke her up . 
I dressed hastily and went to her . 
What is it , cousin ? I do not like to tell you , and yet I must . 
I am in absolute want of five thousand francs . 
What , you ? Yes , I , or rather my husband , who has asked me to procure them for him . 
I was so stupefied that I hesitated to answer . 
I asked myself whether she had not really been making fun of me with Dr . 
Parent , if it were not merely a very well acted farce which had been got up beforehand . 
On looking at her attentively , however , my doubts disappeared . 
She was trembling with grief , so painful was this step to her , and I was sure that her throat was full of sobs . 
I knew that she was very rich and so I continued What ! Has not your husband five thousand francs at his disposal ? Come , think . 
He has written to you ? She hesitated again and reflected , and I guessed the torture of her thoughts . 
She only knew that she was to borrow five thousand francs of me for her husband . 
So she told a lie . 
Yes , he has written to me . 
When , pray ? You did not mention it to me yesterday . 
I received his letter this morning . 
Can you show it to me ? No no no it contained private matters , things too personal to ourselves . 
So your husband runs into debt ? She hesitated again , and then murmured I do not know . 
Thereupon I said bluntly I have not five thousand francs at my disposal at this moment , my dear cousin . 
She uttered a cry , as if she were in pair and said Oh ! oh ! I beseech you , I beseech you to get them for me . 
Oh ! oh ! I beg you to if you knew what I am suffering I want them to day . 
I had pity on her You shall have them by and by , I swear to you . 
Oh ! thank you ! thank you ! How kind you are . 
I continued Do you remember what took place at your house last night ? Yes . 
Do you remember that Dr . 
Parent sent you to sleep ? Yes . 
Oh ! Very well then he ordered you to come to me this morning to borrow five thousand francs , and at this moment you are obeying that suggestion . 
He was just going out , and he listened to me with a smile , and said Do you believe now ? Yes , I cannot help it . 
Let us go to your cousin's . 
She was already resting on a couch , overcome with fatigue . 
The doctor felt her pulse , looked at her for some time with one hand raised toward her eyes , which she closed by degrees under the irresistible power of this magnetic influence . 
Then he woke her up , and I took out a pocket book and said Here is what you asked me for this morning , my dear cousin . 
There ! I have just come back , and I have not been able to eat any lunch , for this experiment has altogether upset me . 
Many people to whom I have told the adventure have laughed at me . 
I no longer know what to think . 
The wise man says Perhaps ? July . 
I dined at Bougival , and then I spent the evening at a boatmen's ball . 
Decidedly everything depends on place and surroundings . 
It would be the height of folly to believe in the supernatural on the Ile de la Grenouilliere . 
But on the top of Mont Saint Michel or in India , we are terribly under the influence of our surroundings . 
I shall return home next week . 
I came back to my own house yesterday . 
Everything is going on well . 
Nothing fresh it is splendid weather , and I spend my days in watching the Seine flow past . 
They declare that the glasses are broken in the cupboards at night . 
The footman accuses the cook , she accuses the needlewoman , and the latter accuses the other two . 
Who is the culprit ? It would take a clever person to tell . 
This time , I am not mad . 
In desperation I rushed at it to take it ! I found nothing it had disappeared . 
Then I was seized with furious rage against myself , for it is not wholesome for a reasonable and serious man to have such hallucinations . 
He drank the water out of my decanter , but did not disturb my sleep . 
I ask myself whether I am mad . 
I have seen mad people , and I have known some who were quite intelligent , lucid , even clear sighted in every concern of life , except on one point . 
I should , in fact , be a reasonable man laboring under a hallucination . 
By degrees , however , an inexplicable feeling of discomfort seized me . 
It seemed to me as if some unknown force were numbing and stopping me , were preventing me from going further and were calling me back . 
I felt that painful wish to return which comes on you when you have left a beloved invalid at home , and are seized by a presentiment that he is worse . 
I , therefore , returned despite of myself , feeling certain that I should find some bad news awaiting me , a letter or a telegram . 
There was nothing , however , and I was surprised and uneasy , more so than if I had had another fantastic vision . 
I spent a terrible evening , yesterday . 
Nothing , but I am afraid . 
Nothing but what will happen to morrow ? August . 
I cannot stop at home with this fear hanging over me and these thoughts in my mind I shall go away . 
All day long I have been trying to get away , and have not been able . 
I contemplated a simple and easy act of liberty , a carriage ride to Rouen and I have not been able to do it . 
What is the reason ? August . 
I am experiencing the same in my moral being , in a strange and distressing manner . 
I have no longer any strength , any courage , any self control , nor even any power to set my own will in motion . 
I have no power left to WILL anything , but some one does it for me and I obey . 
I am lost ! Somebody possesses my soul and governs it ! Somebody orders all my acts , all my movements , all my thoughts . 
I am no longer master of myself , nothing except an enslaved and terrified spectator of the things which I do . 
I wish to go out I cannot . 
HE does not wish to and so I remain , trembling and distracted in the armchair in which he keeps me sitting . 
Then suddenly , I must , I MUST go to the foot of my garden to pick some strawberries and eat them and I go there . 
Certainly this is the way in which my poor cousin was possessed and swayed , when she came to borrow five thousand francs of me . 
She was under the power of a strange will which had entered into her , like another soul , a parasitic and ruling soul . 
Oh ! If I could only leave it , if I could only go away and flee , and never return , I should be saved but I cannot . 
I managed to escape to day for two hours , like a prisoner who finds the door of his dungeon accidentally open . 
Oh ! how delightful to be able to say to my coachman Go to Rouen ! I made him pull up before the library , and I begged them to lend me Dr . 
Herrmann Herestauss's treatise on the unknown inhabitants of the ancient and modern world . 
He had found me out and regained possession of me . 
Oh ! What a night ! what a night ! And yet it seems to me that I ought to rejoice . 
He describes their origin , their domains , their power but none of them resembles the one which haunts me . 
It was very pleasant and warm ! How I should have enjoyed such a night formerly ! There was no moon , but the stars darted out their rays in the dark heavens . 
Not a breath of air had come in at my window , and I was surprised and waited . 
My armchair was empty , appeared empty , but I knew that He was there , He , and sitting in my place , and that He was reading . 
I have been thinking the whole day long . 
Oh ! yes , I will obey Him , follow His impulses , fulfill all His wishes , show myself humble , submissive , a coward . 
He is the stronger but an hour will come . 
And it saw me ! It saw my house , which was also white , and He sprang from the ship on to the land . 
Oh ! Good heavens ! Now I know , I can divine . 
The reign of man is over , and he has come . 
After the coarse conceptions of primitive fear , men more enlightened gave him a truer form . 
Mesmer divined him , and ten years ago physicians accurately discovered the nature of his power , even before He exercised it himself . 
They played with that weapon of their new Lord , the sway of a mysterious will over the human soul , which had become enslaved . 
Woe to us ! But , nevertheless , sometimes the animal rebels and kills the man who has subjugated it . 
And my eye cannot distinguish this newcomer who is oppressing me . 
A thousand things , moreover , deceive a man and lead him astray . 
There are only a few so few stages of development in this world , from the oyster up to man . 
I have seen Him ! Yesterday I sat down at my table and pretended to write very assiduously . 
I knew quite well that He would come prowling round me , quite close to me , so close that I might perhaps be able to touch him , to seize him . 
And I watched for him with all my overexcited nerves . 
I had lighted my two lamps and the eight wax candles on my mantelpiece , as if , by this light I should discover Him . 
I got up so quickly , with my hands extended , that I almost fell . 
It was like the end of an eclipse . 
Whatever hid me did not appear to possess any clearly defined outlines , but was a sort of opaque transparency , which gradually grew clearer . 
At last I was able to distinguish myself completely , as I do every day when I look at myself . 
I had seen Him ! And the horror of it remained with me , and makes me shudder even now . 
Then ? then ? August . 
I have made myself out a coward , but I do not care about that ! September . 
It is done it is done but is He dead ? My mind is thoroughly upset by what I have seen . 
Well then , yesterday , the locksmith having put on the iron shutters and door , I left everything open until midnight , although it was getting cold . 
Suddenly I felt that He was there , and joy , mad joy took possession of me . 
Suddenly I noticed that He was moving restlessly round me , that in his turn He was frightened and was ordering me to let Him out . 
I was sure that He had not been able to escape , and I shut Him up quite alone , quite alone . 
What happiness ! I had Him fast . 
Then I ran downstairs into the drawing room which was under my bedroom . 
I went and hid myself at the bottom of the garden , in a clump of laurel bushes . 
I looked at my house and waited . 
Through all the windows which opened on to that furnace , I saw the flames darting , and I reflected that He was there , in that kiln , dead . 
We were following , at a foot pace , broad highway which serpentines along the coast . 
Setting out from Etretat at break of day , in order to visit the ruins of Tancarville , we were still asleep , chilled by the fresh air of the morning . 
On both sides of the road the bare fields stretched out , yellowed by the corn and wheat stubble which covered the soil like a bristling growth of beard . 
The spongy earth seemed to smoke . 
Larks were singing high up in the air , while other birds piped in the bushes . 
The Count d'Etraille , who was seated on the box , cried Look ! look ! a hare ! and he pointed toward the left , indicating a piece of hedge . 
The leveret threaded its way along , almost concealed by the field , only its large ears visible . 
Suddenly it began to run , with great bounds from its hind legs , disappearing finally in a large patch of beet root . 
All the men had woke up to watch the course of the beast . 
Reassure yourself he will not return before Saturday , so you have still four days . 
She responded to him with a sleepy smile . 
Then , shaking off her torpor , she added Now , let somebody say something that will make us all laugh . 
I. At that time I was twenty five years old , and was making daubs along the coast of Normandy . 
I call 'making daubs' that wandering about , with a bag on one's back , from mountain to mountain , under the pretext of studying and of sketching nature . 
You go in any direction you please , without any guide save your fancy , without any counselor save your eyes . 
You pull up , because a running brook seduces you , or because you are attracted , in front of an inn , by the smell of potatoes frying . 
Sometimes it is the perfume of clematis which decides you in your choice , or the naive glance of the servant at an inn . 
Do not despise me for my affection for these rustics . 
These girls have soul as well as feeling , not to mention firm cheeks and fresh lips while their hearty and willing kisses have the flavor of wild fruit . 
Love always has its price , come whence it may . 
I have had rendezvous in ditches in which cattle repose , and in barns among the straw , still steaming from the heat of the day . 
But what you love most amid all these varied adventures are the country , the woods , the risings of the sun , the twilight , the light of the moon . 
For the painter these are honeymoon trips with Nature . 
You are alone with her in that long and tranquil rendezvous . 
You sit down by the side of a spring which gushes out from the foot of an oak , amid a covering of fragile herbs , growing and redolent of life . 
So , in wandering through the same country we are in this year , I came to the little village of Benouville , on the Falaise , between Yport and Etretat . 
I came from Fecamp , following the coast , a high coast , perpendicular as a wall , with projecting and rugged rocks falling sheer down into the sea . 
I had walked since the morning on the close clipped grass , as smooth and as yielding as a carpet . 
In short , I had passed a happy day , a day of listlessness and of liberty . 
I gained the hamlet , which was hemmed in by great trees , and I presented myself at the house of Mother Lecacheur . 
She was an old , wrinkled , and austere rustic , who always seemed to yield to the pressure of new customs with a kind of contempt . 
It was the month of May the spreading apple trees covered the court with a whirling shower of blossoms which rained unceasingly both upon people and upon the grass . 
The room opened into the large and smoky kitchen , where the lodgers took their meals with the people of the farm and with the farmer himself , who was a widower . 
I washed my hands , after which I went out . 
The old woman was fricasseeing a chicken for dinner in a large fireplace , in which hung the stew pot , black with smoke . 
'You have travelers , then , at the present time ? said I to her . 
She answered in an offended tone of voice 'I have a lady , an English lady , who has attained to years of maturity . 
She is occupying my other room . 
By means of an extra five sous a day , I obtained the privilege of dining out in the court when the weather was fine . 
Suddenly , the wooden barrier which opened on to the highway was opened , and a strange person directed her steps toward the house . 
She was very slender , very tall , enveloped in a Scotch shawl with red borders . 
You would have believed that she had no arms , if you had not seen a long hand appear just above the hips , holding a white tourist umbrella . 
Lowering her eyes , she passed quickly in front of me , and entered the house . 
This singular apparition made me curious . 
She undoubtedly was my neighbor , the aged English lady of whom our hostess had spoken . 
I did not see her again that day . 
On seeing me , she suddenly disappeared . 
I re entered the house at midday for lunch , and took my seat at the common table , so as to make the acquaintance of this old and original creature . 
But she did not respond to my polite advances , was insensible even to my little attentions . 
I poured water out for her with great alacrity , I passed her the dishes with great eagerness . 
A slight , almost imperceptible movement of the head , and an English word , murmured so low that I did not understand it , were her only acknowledgments . 
I ceased occupying myself with her , although she had disturbed my thoughts . 
At the end of three days , I knew as much about her as did Madame Lecacheur herself . 
She was called Miss Harriet . 
Seeking out a secluded village in which to pass the summer , she had been attracted to Benouville , some six months before , and did not seem disposed to quit it . 
She never spoke at table , ate rapidly , reading all the while a small book , treating of some Protestant propaganda . 
She gave a copy of it to everybody . 
The cure himself had received no less than four copies , at the hands of an urchin to whom she had paid two sous' commission . 
And she would immediately present the old woman with one of her brochures which were destined to convert the universe . 
In the village she was not liked . 
In fact , the schoolmaster had declared that she was an atheist , and that a sort of reproach attached to her . 
These words , 'atheist , 'heretic , words which no one can precisely define , threw doubts into some minds . 
When I meet one of these people in a hotel , I act like birds which see a manikin in a field . 
This woman , however , appeared so singular that she did not displease me . 
Madame Lecacheur , hostile by instinct to everything that was not rustic , felt in her narrow soul a kind of hatred for the ecstatic extravagances of the old girl . 
She said 'That woman is a demoniac . 
This phrase , as uttered by that austere and sentimental creature , seemed to me irresistibly comic . 
I , myself , never called her now anything else but 'the demoniac . 
feeling a singular pleasure in pronouncing this word on seeing her . 
For a whole month he could not speak of the circumstance without getting into a fury and denouncing it as an outrage . 
Oh yes ! She was indeed a demoniac , this Miss Harriet , and Mother Lecacheur must have had an inspiration of genius in thus christening her . 
The stable boy , who was called Sapeur , because he had served in Africa in his youth , entertained other aversions . 
He said , with a roguish air 'She is an old hag who has lived her days . 
If the poor woman had but known ! Little kind hearted Celeste did not wait upon her willingly , but I was never able to understand why . 
Probably her only reason was that she was a stranger , of another race , of a different tongue , and of another religion . 
She was in good truth a demoniac ! She passed her time wandering about the country , adoring and searching for God in nature . 
I found her one evening on her knees in a cluster of bushes . 
Sometimes , when I was working among the rocks , I would suddenly descry her on the banks of the Falaise standing like a semaphore signal . 
She gazed passionately at the vast sea , glittering in the sunlight , and the boundless sky empurpled with fire . 
I could no longer tear myself away from that quiet country neighborhood , bound to it as I was by a thousand links of love for its soft and sweeping landscapes . 
At this farm I was out of the world , far removed from everything , but in close proximity to the soil , the good , healthy , beautiful green soil . 
And , must I avow it , there was something besides curiosity which retained me at the residence of Mother Lecacheur . 
I wished to become acquainted a little with this strange Miss Harriet , and to learn what passes in the solitary souls of those wandering old , English dames . 
We became acquainted in a rather singular manner . 
I had just finished a study which appeared to me to display genius and power as it must have , since it was sold for ten thousand francs , fifteen years later . 
It was as simple , however , as that two and two make four , and had nothing to do with academic rules . 
The light , without which one could see the stars concealed in the background , fell upon the stone , and gilded it as if with fire . 
A first stupid attempt at dealing with light , with burning rays , with the sublime . 
I was so pleased with my work that I danced from sheer delight as I carried it back to the inn . 
I wished that the whole world could have seen it at one and the same moment . 
The rustic advanced and looked at my work with stupid eyes , which distinguished nothing , and did not even recognize whether the picture was the representation of an ox or a house . 
The 'demoniac' could not help but see it , for I took care to exhibit the thing in such a way that it could not escape her notice . 
She stopped abruptly and stood motionless , stupefied . 
It was her rock which was depicted , the one which she usually climbed to dream away her time undisturbed . 
She murmured ecstatically , comically , and tenderly 'Oh ! Monsieur , you must understand what it is to have a palpitation . 
I colored up , of course , and was more excited by that compliment than if it had come from a queen . 
I was seduced , conquered , vanquished . 
I could have embraced her upon my honor . 
I took my seat at the table beside her , as I had always done . 
For the first time , she spoke , drawling out in a loud voice 'Oh ! I love nature so much . 
I offered her some bread , some water , some wine . 
She now accepted these with the vacant smile of a mummy . 
I then began to converse with her about the scenery . 
It was a misty , relaxing evening , one of those enjoyable evenings which impart happiness to mind and body alike . 
All is joy , all is charm . 
We were going to the brink of the abyss which overlooked the vast sea and rolled past us at the distance of less than a hundred meters . 
We drank with open mouth and expanded chest , that fresh breeze from the ocean which glides slowly over the skin , salted as it is by long contact with the waves . 
Soon its rim touched the waters , just in rear of a ship which had appeared on the horizon , until , by degrees , it was swallowed up by the ocean . 
We watched it plunge , diminish , and finally disappear . 
Miss Harriet contemplated with passionate regard the last glimmer of the flaming orb of day . 
She muttered 'Oh ! I love I love I saw a tear start in her eye . 
She continued 'I wish I were a little bird , so that I could mount up into the firmament . 
She remained standing as I had often before seen her , perched on the river bank , her face as red as her flaming shawl . 
I should have liked to have sketched her in my album . 
It would have been an ecstatic caricature . 
I turned my face away from her so as to be able to laugh . 
I then spoke to her of painting , as I would have done to a fellow artist , using the technical terms common among the devotees of the profession . 
She listened attentively to me , eagerly seeking to divine the sense of the obscure words , so as to penetrate my thoughts . 
From time to time , she would exclaim 'Oh ! I understand , I understand . 
The next day , on seeing me , she approached me eagerly , holding out her hand and we became firm friends immediately . 
She was a brave creature , with an elastic sort of a soul , which became enthusiastic at a bound . 
She lacked equilibrium , like all women who are spinsters at the age of fifty . 
She seemed to be pickled in vinegary innocence , though her heart still retained something of youth and of girlish effervescence . 
She loved both nature and animals with a fervent ardor , a love like old wine , mellow through age , with a sensual love that she had never bestowed on men . 
Then she would leave me abruptly , and , with jaunty step , walk away quickly . 
One day , however , she plucked up courage 'I would like to see how you paint pictures ? Will you show me ? I have been very curious . 
And she colored up as though she had given utterance to words extremely audacious . 
I conducted her to the bottom of the Petit Val , where I had commenced a large picture . 
She remained standing near me , following all my gestures with concentrated attention . 
Then , suddenly , fearing , perhaps , that she was disturbing me , she said to me 'Thank you , and walked away . 
But in a short time she became more familiar , and accompanied me every day , her countenance exhibiting visible pleasure . 
She carried her folding stool under her arm would not consent to my carrying it , and she sat always by my side . 
She would remain there for hours immovable and mute , following with her eye the point of my brush in its every movement . 
She had the most tender respect for my canvases , an almost religious respect for that human reproduction of a part of nature's work divine . 
My studies appeared to her to be pictures of sanctity , and sometimes she spoke to me of God , with the idea of converting me . 
Oh ! He was a queer good natured being , this God of hers . 
She was , however , on excellent terms with him , affecting even to be the confidant of his secrets and of his whims . 
She said 'God wills , or God does not will , just like a sergeant announcing to a recruit 'The colonel has commanded . 
At the bottom of her heart she deplored my ignorance of the intentions of the Eternal , which she strove , nay , felt herself compelled , to impart to me . 
I treated her as one would an old friend , with unaffected cordiality . 
But I soon perceived that she had changed somewhat in her manner but , for a while , I paid little attention to it . 
She would then sit down abruptly , out of breath , as though she had been running or overcome by some profound emotion . 
Gradually , however , I would see her regain her ordinary color , whereupon she would begin to speak . 
It was seldom that this gave her any concern though sometimes she looked as though she had been dining sans ceremonie her locks having become disheveled by the breezes . 
She would then go up to her room in order to adjust what I called her glass lamps . 
Then she would become abruptly savage and cease coming to watch me paint . 
But I always thought 'This is only a fit of temper she is passing through . 
But it did not always pass away . 
For a time I never saw her except at meals , and we spoke but little . 
It is not true , not true , and she ran upstairs and shut herself up in her room . 
At times she would look upon me with strange eyes . 
Since that time I have often said to myself that those condemned to death must look thus when informed that their last day has come . 
But what could I know ? What could I know ? III . 
This was indeed a singular revelation . 
It was well done , yes , indeed , well done . 
I was working on the declivity which led to the Val d'Etretat . 
This particular morning , I had , by chance , the sort of floating vapor which was necessary for my purpose . 
Suddenly , an object appeared in front of me , a kind of phantom it was Miss Harriet . 
On seeing me , she took to flight . 
But I called after her saying 'Come here , come here , Mademoiselle , I have a nice little picture for you . 
She came forward , though with seeming reluctance . 
I handed her my sketch . 
She said nothing , but stood for a long time motionless , looking at it . 
Suddenly she burst into tears . 
She wept spasmodically , like men who have been struggling hard against shedding tears , but who can do so no longer , and abandon themselves to grief , though unwillingly . 
She let her hands rest in mine for a few seconds , and I felt them quiver , as if her whole nervous system was twisting and turning . 
Then she withdrew her hands abruptly , or , rather , tore them out of mine . 
I recognized that shiver as soon as I had felt it I was deceived in nothing . 
I did not go in to breakfast . 
I asked myself what I ought to do . 
I debated whether I ought not to take my leave of the place and almost immediately my resolution was formed . 
Somewhat sad and perplexed , I wandered about until dinner time , and entered the farmhouse just when the soup had been served up . 
I sat down at the table , as usual . 
Miss Harriet was there , munching away solemnly , without speaking to anyone , without even lifting her eyes . 
She wore , however , her usual expression , both of countenance and manner . 
I waited , patiently , till the meal had been finished . 
Then , turning toward the landlady , I said 'Madame Lecacheur , it will not be long now before I shall have to take my leave of you . 
Her countenance did not change in the least but the under servant came toward me with eyes wide open . 
I had kissed her at odd times , in out of the way corners , in the manner of a mountain guide , nothing more . 
The dinner being over , I went to smoke my pipe under the apple trees , walking up and down at my ease , from one end of the court to the other . 
Night having come on , casting its dark shadows under the trees , I descried Celeste , who had gone to shut the hen coops , at the other end of the inclosure . 
She made a struggle , laughing all the same , as she was accustomed to do in such circumstances . 
Then she disappeared in the darkness . 
I was ashamed , embarrassed , more annoyed at having been surprised by her than if she had caught me committing some criminal act . 
I slept badly that night I was worried and haunted by sad thoughts . 
I seemed to hear loud weeping but in this I was no doubt deceived . 
Moreover , I thought several times that I heard some one walking up and down in the house , and that some one opened my door from the outside . 
Toward morning , I was overcome by fatigue , and sleep seized on me . 
I got up late and did not go downstairs until breakfast time , being still in a bewildered state , not knowing what kind of face to put on . 
No one had seen Miss Harriet . 
We waited for her at table , but she did not appear . 
At length , Mother Lecacheur went to her room . 
The English woman had gone out . 
She must have set out at break of day , as she was wont to do , in order to see the sun rise . 
Nobody seemed astonished at this and we began to eat in silence . 
The weather was hot , very hot , one of those still sultry days when not a leaf stirs . 
Celeste brought the dishes from the kitchen , a ragout of mutton with potatoes , a cold rabbit , and a salad . 
Afterward she placed before us a dish of strawberries , the first of the season . 
As I wanted to wash and freshen these , I begged the servant to go and bring a pitcher of cold water . 
In about five minutes she returned , declaring that the well was dry . 
She had lowered the pitcher to the full extent of the cord , and had touched the bottom , but on drawing the pitcher up again , it was empty . 
Mother Lecacheur , anxious to examine the thing for herself , went and looked down the hole . 
She returned announcing that one could see clearly something in the well , something altogether unusual . 
But this , no doubt , was pottles of straw , which , out of spite , had been cast down it by a neighbor . 
I wished also to look down the well , hoping to clear up the mystery , and perched myself close to its brink . 
I perceived , indistinctly , a white object . 
What could it be ? I then conceived the idea of lowering a lantern at the end of a cord . 
When I did so , the yellow flame danced on the layers of stone and gradually became clearer . 
All four of us were leaning over the opening , Sapeur and Celeste having now joined us . 
The lantern rested on a black and white , indistinct mass , singular , incomprehensible . 
Sapeur exclaimed 'It is a horse . 
It must have escaped from the meadow , during the night , and fallen in headlong . 
I groaned and trembled so violently that the light of the lamp danced hither and thither over the object , discovering a slipper . 
'It is a woman ! who who can it be ? It is Miss Harriet . 
Sapeur alone did not manifest horror . 
He had witnessed many such scenes in Africa . 
Mother Lecacheur and Celeste began to scream and to shriek , and ran away . 
But it was necessary to recover the corpse of the dead . 
I attached the boy securely by the loins to the end of the pulley rope then I lowered him slowly , and watched him disappear in the darkness . 
In the one hand he had a lantern , and held on to the rope with the other . 
Soon I recognized his voice , which seemed to come from the center of the earth , crying 'Stop . 
I then saw him fish something out of the water . 
It was the other limb . 
He bound the two feet together , and shouted anew 'Haul up . 
I commenced to wind him up , but I felt my arms strain , my muscles twitch , and was in terror lest I should let the boy fall to the bottom . 
When his head appeared over the brink , I asked 'What is it ? as though I only expected that he would tell me what he had discovered at the bottom . 
We both got on to the stone slab at the edge of the well , and , face to face , hoisted the body . 
Mother Lecacheur and Celeste watched us from a distance , concealed behind the wall of the house . 
When they saw , issuing from the well , the black slippers and white stockings of the drowned person , they disappeared . 
Sapeur seized the ankles of the poor chaste woman , and we drew it up , inclined , as it was , in the most immodest posture . 
The head was in a shocking state , bruised and black and the long , gray hair , hanging down , was tangled and disordered . 
'In the name of all that is holy , how lean she is ! exclaimed Sapeur , in a contemptuous tone . 
We carried her into the room , and as the women did not put in an appearance , I , with the assistance of the lad , dressed the corpse for burial . 
I washed her disfigured face . 
I plaited up , as well as I could , her disheveled hair , and I adjusted on her forehead a novel and singularly formed lock . 
I next went to fetch some flowers , corn poppies , blue beetles , marguerites , and fresh and perfumed herbs , with which to strew her funeral couch . 
Being the only person near her , it was necessary for me to perform the usual ceremonies . 
A frightful thought then oppressed my heart . 
By the flickering light of the candles , I looked at the body of this miserable woman , wholly unknown , who had died so lamentably and so far away from home . 
She had now begun to decompose , and to become , in turn , a plant . 
But that which is called the soul had been extinguished at the bottom of the dark well . 
She had changed her life for that of others yet to be born . 
Hours passed away in this silent and sinister communion with the dead . 
This was the hour she had so much loved , when the waking birds began to sing in the trees . 
I opened the window to its fullest extent , I drew back the curtains , so that the whole heavens might look in upon us . 
We heard on the box seat Count d'Etraille blow his nose , from time to time . 
The coachman alone had gone to sleep . 
The horses , which felt no longer the sting of the whip , had slackened their pace and dragged softly along . 
And the four in hand , hardly moving at all , became suddenly torpid , as if laden with sorrow . 
THE HOLE CUTS AND WOUNDS WHICH CAUSED DEATH . 
That was the heading of the charge which brought Leopold Renard , upholsterer , before the Assize Court . 
Round him were the principal witnesses , Madame Flameche , widow of the victim , Louis Ladureau , cabinetmaker , and Jean Durdent , plumber . 
Near the criminal was his wife , dressed in black , a little ugly woman , who looked like a monkey dressed as a lady . 
This is how Renard described the drama Good heavens , it is a misfortune of which I am the first and last victim , and with which my will has nothing to do . 
The facts are their own commentary , Monsieur le President . 
I am fond of work , I am fond of saving , I like honest men , and respectable pleasures . 
That is what has ruined me , so much the worse for me but as my will had nothing to do with it , I continue to respect myself . 
Every Sunday for the last five years , my wife and I have spent the day at Passy . 
We get fresh air , not to say that we are fond of fishing as fond of it as we are of small onions . 
I am strong and mild tempered , without a pennyworth of malice in me . 
But she ! oh ! la ! la ! she looks insignificant , she is short and thin , but she does more mischief than a weasel . 
I do not deny that she has some good qualities she has some , and those very important to a man in business . 
But her character ! Just ask about it in the neighborhood even the porter's wife , who has just sent me about my business she will tell you something about it . 
Every day she used to find fault with my mild temper 'I would not put up with this ! I would not put up with that . 
If I had listened to her , Monsieur le President , I should have had at least three bouts of fisticuffs a month . 
Madame Renard interrupted him And for good reasons too they laugh best who laugh last . 
He turned toward her frankly Oh ! very well , I can blame you , since you were the cause of it . 
Then , facing the President again he said I will continue . 
We used to go to Passy every Saturday evening , so as to be able to begin fishing at daybreak the next morning . 
It is a habit which has become second nature with us , as the saying is . 
I might look upon that hole as my property , Monsieur le President , as I was its Christopher Columbus . 
Everybody in the neighborhood knew it , without making any opposition . 
Well , I went as usual to that place , of which I felt as certain as if I had owned it . 
I had scarcely got there on Saturday , when I got into 'Delila , with my wife . 
'Delila' is my Norwegian boat , which I had built by Fourmaise , and which is light and safe . 
You want to know with what I bait ? I cannot answer that question it has nothing to do with the accident I cannot answer , that is my secret . 
Ah ! they have patted my stomach to get at my secret , my recipe . 
The President of the Court interrupted him Just get to the facts as soon as you can . 
The accused continued I am getting to them I am getting to them . 
July , we left by the five twenty five train , and before dinner we went to ground bait as usual . 
The weather promised to keep fine , and I said to Melie 'All right for to morrow ! And she replied 'It looks like it . 
We never talk more than that together . 
And then we returned to dinner . 
I was happy and thirsty , and that was the cause of everything . 
I said to Melie 'Look here Melie , it is fine weather , so suppose I drink a bottle of Casque a meche . 
That is a little white wine which we have christened so , because if you drink too much of it it prevents you from sleeping and is the opposite of a nightcap . 
Do you understand me ? She replied 'You can do as you please , but you will be ill again , and will not be able to get up to morrow . 
That was true , sensible , prudent , and clear sighted , I must confess . 
Nevertheless , I could not withstand it , and I drank my bottle . 
It all comes from that . 
Well , I could not sleep . 
In short , my wife woke me at six o'clock and I jumped out of bed , hastily put on my trousers and jersey , washed my face and jumped on board 'Delila . 
I said to myself , Confound it all ! confound it ! And then my wife began to nag at me . 
Perhaps after all the fellow might catch nothing , and go away . 
As I did not want a fuss , I said to her 'Hold your tongue , Melie . 
Let them go on , let them go on we shall see . 
The little man in linen pretended not to hear , nor his fat lump of a wife , either . 
Here the President interrupted him a second time Take care , you are insulting the widow , Madame Flameche , who is present . 
Renard made his excuses I beg your pardon , I beg your pardon , my anger carried me away . 
Well , not a quarter of an hour had passed when the little man caught another chub and another almost immediately , and another five minutes later . 
Why , my hands are burning , just to think of it . 
But I said to myself 'Let us wait until twelve o clock . 
Then this poaching fellow will go to lunch , and I shall get my place again . 
As for me , Monsieur le President , I lunch on the spot every Sunday we bring our provisions in 'Delila . 
Then I took up my newspaper , to aid my digestion . 
Every Sunday I read the 'Gil Blas' in the shade like that , by the side of the water . 
It is Columbine's day , you know , Columbine who writes the articles in the 'Gil Blas . 
I generally put Madame Renard into a passion by pretending to know this Columbine . 
She suits me , and there are not many of her sort . 
Well , I began to tease my wife , but she got angry immediately , and very angry , and so I held my tongue . 
At that moment our two witnesses , who are present here , Monsieur Ladureau and Monsieur Durdent , appeared on the other side of the river . 
We knew each other by sight . 
And she whispered to me as if she had put a red hot iron under my nose 'You are not a man . 
She said 'That is what one might call stolen fish , seeing that we baited the place ourselves . 
At any rate , they ought to give us back the money we have spent on bait . 
Then the fat woman in the cotton dress said in turn 'Do you mean to call us thieves , Madame ? And they began to explain , and then they came to words . 
Oh ! Lord ! those creatures know some good ones . 
The fact is that neither of us moved any more than if we had been two tree stumps . 
We remained there , with our noses over the water , as if we had heard nothing , but by Jove , we heard all the same . 
'You are a mere liar . 
'You are nothing better than a street walker . 
'You are only a trollop . 
'You are a regular strumpet . 
And so on , and so on a sailor could not have said more . 
Suddenly I heard a noise behind me , and turned round . 
It was the other one , the fat woman who had fallen on to my wife with her parasol . 
Slaps in the face rained down like ripe plums . 
He threw up his arms and legs and fell on his back into the river , just into the hole . 
I should have fished him out most certainly , Monsieur le President , if I had had the time . 
But unfortunately the fat woman got the better of it , and she was drubbing Melie terribly . 
I therefore ran up to the women to separate them , and all I received was scratches and bites . 
Good Lord , what creatures ! Well , it took me five minutes , and perhaps ten , to separate those two viragoes . 
When I turned round , there was nothing to be seen , and the water was as smooth as a lake . 
I am innocent , on my honor . 
The witnesses having deposed to the same effect , the accused was acquitted . 
LOVE THREE PAGES FROM A SPORTSMAN'S BOOK I have just read among the general news in one of the papers a drama of passion . 
He killed her and then he killed himself , so he must have loved her . 
I was born with all the instincts and the senses of primitive man , tempered by the arguments and the restraints of a civilized being . 
He lived in a house , half farmhouse , half chateau , situated in a broad valley through which a river ran . 
That marsh was the best shooting ground I ever saw . 
It was my cousin's chief care , and he kept it as a preserve . 
Nothing is more impressive , nothing more disquieting , more terrifying occasionally , than a fen . 
It was freezing hard enough to split the stones . 
We were to start at half past three in the morning , so as to arrive at the place which he had chosen for our watching place at about half past four . 
My cousin rubbed his hands I have never known such a frost , he said it is already twelve degrees below zero at six o'clock in the evening . 
I threw myself on to my bed immediately after we had finished our meal , and went to sleep by the light of a bright fire burning in the grate . 
At three o'clock he woke me . 
In my turn , I put on a sheepskin , and found my cousin Karl covered with a bearskin . 
After having each swallowed two cups of scalding coffee , followed by glasses of liqueur brandy , we started , accompanied by a gamekeeper and our dogs , Plongeon and Pierrot . 
From the first moment that I got outside , I felt chilled to the very marrow . 
It was one of those nights on which the earth seems dead with cold . 
She shed a cold , mournful light over the world , that dying and wan light which she gives us every month , at the end of her period . 
Karl and I walked side by side , our backs bent , our hands in our pockets and our guns under our arms . 
We were soon on the edge of the marsh , and entered one of the lanes of dry rushes which ran through the low forest . 
This one was dead , dead from cold , since we were walking on it , in the middle of its population of dried rushes . 
Suddenly , at the turn of one of the lanes , I perceived the ice hut which had been constructed to shelter us . 
Then , lying on my back , I began to look at the misshapen moon , which had four horns through the vaguely transparent walls of this polar house . 
But the frost of the frozen marshes , the cold of these walls , the cold from the firmament penetrated me so terribly that I began to cough . 
My cousin Karl became uneasy . 
No matter if we do not kill much to day , he said I do not want you to catch cold we will light a fire . 
And he told the gamekeeper to cut some rushes . 
Karl , who had remained outside , called out to me Come and look here ! I went out of the hut and remained struck with astonishment . 
And inside , we saw two fantastic forms , those of our dogs , who were warming themselves at the fire . 
But a peculiar cry , a lost , a wandering cry , passed over our heads , and the light from our hearth showed us the wild birds . 
The sky was , in fact , beginning to grow pale , and the flights of ducks made long , rapid streaks which were soon obliterated on the sky . 
A stream of light burst out into the night Karl had fired , and the two dogs ran forward . 
And then , nearly every minute , now he , now I , aimed rapidly as soon as the shadow of a flying flock appeared above the rushes . 
And Pierrot and Plongeon , out of breath but happy , retrieved the bleeding birds , whose eyes still , occasionally , looked at us . 
I fired , and one of them fell almost at my feet . 
It was a teal , with a silver breast , and then , in the blue space above me , I heard a voice , the voice of a bird . 
Karl was on his knees , his gun to his shoulder watching it eagerly , until it should be within shot . 
You have killed the duck , he said , and the drake will not fly away . 
He certainly did not fly away he circled over our heads continually , and continued his cries . 
Never have any groans of suffering pained me so much as that desolate appeal , as that lamentable reproach of this poor bird which was lost in space . 
Leave her on the ground , Karl said to me , he will come within shot by and by . 
And he did indeed come near us , careless of danger , infatuated by his animal love , by his affection for his mate , which I had just killed . 
Karl fired , and it was as if somebody had cut the string which held the bird suspended . 
I saw something black descend , and I heard the noise of a fall among the rushes . 
And Pierrot brought it to me . 
I put them they were already cold into the same game bag , and I returned to Paris the same evening . 
It is open six months in the year , and is inhabited by the family of Jean Hauser . 
It was the day on which the Hauser family were going to return to Loeche , as winter was approaching , and the descent was becoming dangerous . 
Three mules started first , laden with baggage and led by the three sons . 
Then the mother , Jeanne Hauser , and her daughter Louise mounted a fourth mule , and set off in their turn . 
The father followed them , accompanied by the two men in charge , who were to escort the family as far as the brow of the descent . 
A ray of sunlight glinted into that little white , glistening , frozen desert , illuminating it with a cold and dazzling flame . 
No living thing appeared among this ocean of hills there was no stir in that immeasurable solitude , no noise disturbed the profound silence . 
The younger one looked at him as he approached , as if she would call him with her sad eyes . 
She was a young , light haired peasant girl , whose milk white cheeks and pale hair seemed to have lost their color by long dwelling amid the ice . 
When Ulrich had caught up with the animal which carried the women , he put his hand on the crupper , and relaxed his speed . 
Mother Hauser began to talk to him , and enumerated with minutest detail all that he would have to attend to during the winter . 
It was the first winter he would spend up there , while old Hari had already spent fourteen winters amid the snow , at the inn of Schwarenbach . 
Ulrich Kunsi listened , without appearing to understand , and looked incessantly at the girl . 
From time to time he replied Yes , Madame Hauser but his thoughts seemed far away , and his calm features remained unmoved . 
They reached Lake Daube , whose broad , frozen surface reached to the bottom of the valley . 
On the right , the Daubenhorn showed its black mass , rising up in a peak above the enormous moraines of the Lommeon glacier , which soared above the Wildstrubel . 
The women jumped into the snow , and the two old men joined them . 
Well , father Hauser said , good bye , and keep up your spirits till next year , my friends , and old Hari replied Till next year . 
They embraced each other , and then Madame Hauser in her turn , offered her cheek , and the girl did the same . 
Well , adieu , Jean Hauser repeated , and don't fall ill . 
They walked slowly side by side , without speaking . 
The parting was over , and they would be alone together for four or five months . 
Then Gaspard Hari began to relate his life last winter . 
He had remained with Michael Canol , who was too old now to stand it for an accident might happen during that long solitude . 
Ulrich Kunsi listened to him with his eyes on the ground , for in thought he was with those who were descending to the village . 
They soon came in sight of the inn , which was scarcely visible , so small did it look , a mere black speck at the foot of that enormous billow of snow . 
When they opened the door , Sam , the great curly dog , began to romp round them . 
Come , my boy , old Gaspard said , we have no women now , so we must get our own dinner ready . 
Go and peel the potatoes . 
And they both sat down on wooden stools , and began to put the bread into the soup . 
The next morning seemed very long to Kunsi . 
Old Hari smoked and smoked beside the hearth , while the young man looked out of the window at the snow covered mountain opposite the house . 
From his vantage point the low houses looked like paving stones in a large meadow . 
Hauser's little daughter was there now in one of those gray colored houses . 
In which ? Ulrich Kunsi was too far away to be able to make them out separately . 
Daddy Hari was smoking , and , when he saw his mate come in , proposed a game of cards to him . 
They sat down opposite each other for a long time and played the simple game called brisque then they had supper and went to bed . 
The following days were like the first , bright and cold , without any more snow . 
In the evening they played at cards , dice , or dominoes , and lost and won trifling sums , just to create an interest in the game . 
One morning Hari , who was up first , called his companion . 
A moving cloud of white spray , deep and light , was falling on them noiselessly , and burying them by degrees under a dark , thick coverlet of foam . 
This lasted four days and four nights . 
They lived like prisoners , not venturing outside their abode . 
They had divided their duties and performed them regularly . 
Ulrich Kunsi undertook the scouring , washing , and everything that belonged to cleanliness . 
He also chopped up the wood , while Gaspard Hari did the cooking and attended to the fire . 
Their regular and monotonous work was relieved by long games at cards or dice , but they never quarreled , and were always calm and placid . 
Sometimes old Gaspard took his rifle and went after chamois , and occasionally killed one . 
Then there was a feast in the inn at Schwarenbach , and they reveled in fresh meat . 
One morning he went out as usual . 
The thermometer outside marked eighteen degrees of frost , and as the sun had not yet risen , the hunter hoped to surprise the animals at the approaches to the Wildstrubel . 
Ulrich , being alone , remained in bed until ten o'clock . 
So he went out to meet his companion , who was to return at four o'clock . 
Loeche was now covered by the snow , and the houses could scarcely be distinguished , hidden as they were by that white cloak . 
Turning to the right , Ulrich reached the Lammern glacier . 
The day was declining the snow was assuming a rosy tint , and a dry , frozen wind blew in rough gusts over its crystal surface . 
Ulrich uttered a long , shrill , vibrating call . 
The old man , he thought , would have returned during his absence . 
He had probably taken another road and would , no doubt , be sitting before the fire , with a dead chamois at his feet . 
He soon came in sight of the inn , but no smoke rose from it . 
Opening the door he met Sam who ran up to him to greet him , but Gaspard Hari had not returned . 
Kunsi , in his alarm , turned round suddenly , as if he had expected to find his comrade hidden in a corner . 
Then he relighted the fire and made the soup hoping every moment to see the old man come in . 
From time to time he went out to see if Gaspard were not in sight . 
Then the young man went in and sat down to warm his hands and feet , while he pictured to himself every possible sort of accident . 
Gaspard might have broken a leg , have fallen into a crevasse , have taken a false step and dislocated his ankle . 
Ulrich Kunsi , however , made up his mind to set out with Sam , if Gaspard did not return by one in the morning and he made his preparations . 
He waited , his ears on the alert for distant sounds , and shivered when the wind blew against the roof and the walls . 
It struck twelve , and he trembled . 
Then , as he felt frightened and shivery , he put some water on the fire , so that he might have hot coffee before starting . 
When the clock struck one he got up , woke Sam , opened the door and went off in the direction of the Wildstrubel . 
About six o'clock he reached one of the summits to which old Gaspard often came after chamois , and he waited till it should be day light . 
It seemed as if this vague brightness arose from the snow itself , in order to spread itself into space . 
By degrees the highest and most distant summits assumed a delicate , fleshlike rose color , and the red sun appeared behind the ponderous giants of the Bernese Alps . 
Then , he put his ear to the ground , to listen . 
He thought he could distinguish a voice , and so he began to run and shout again . 
But he heard nothing more and sat down , worn out and in despair . 
Toward midday he breakfasted and gave Sam , who was as tired as himself , something to eat also then he recommenced his search . 
When evening came he was still walking , having traveled more than thirty miles over the mountains . 
The man and the dog lay side by side , warming themselves one against the other , but frozen to the marrow , nevertheless . 
Ulrich scarcely slept , his mind haunted by visions and his limbs shaking with cold . 
Day was breaking when he got up . 
Suddenly he imagined that he ALSO was going to die of cold in the midst of this vast solitude . 
The terror of such a death roused his energies and gave him renewed vigor . 
He was descending toward the inn , falling down and getting up again , and followed at a distance by Sam , who was limping on three legs . 
They did not reach Schwarenbach until four o'clock in the afternoon . 
He slept for a long time , for a very long time , the unconquerable sleep of exhaustion . 
But suddenly a voice , a cry , a name Ulrich , aroused him from his profound slumber , and made him sit up in bed . 
But there was no reply , no murmur , no groan , nothing . 
It was quite dark , and the snow looked wan . 
The wind had risen , that icy wind which cracks the rocks , and leaves nothing alive on those deserted heights . 
It came in sudden gusts , more parching and more deadly than the burning wind of the desert , and again Ulrich shouted Gaspard ! Gaspard ! Gaspard ! Then he waited again . 
Everything was silent on the mountain ! Then he shook with terror , and with a bound he was inside the inn . 
He shut and bolted the door , and then fell into a chair , trembling all over , for he felt certain that his comrade had called him at the moment of dissolution . 
He was certain of that , as certain as one is of conscious life or of taste when eating . 
He had been dying for two days and three nights and he had just then died , thinking of his comrade . 
And Ulrich felt that it was there , quite close to him , behind the wall , behind the door which he had just fastened . 
It was wandering about , like a night bird which skims a lighted window with his wings , and the terrified young man was ready to scream with horror . 
Daylight came , and Kunsi recovered some of his courage with the return of the bright sun . 
He prepared his meal , gave his dog some food , and then remained motionless on a chair , tortured at heart as he thought of the old man lying on the snow . 
Then , as soon as night once more covered the mountains , new terrors assailed him . 
He now walked up and down the dark kitchen , which was scarcely lighted by the flame of one candle . 
He walked from one end of it to the other with great strides , listening , listening to hear the terrible cry of the preceding night again break the dreary silence outside . 
Sam , who was awakened by the noise , began to howl as frightened dogs do , and trotted all about the house trying to find out where the danger came from . 
When he got to the door , he sniffed beneath it , smelling vigorously , with his coat bristling and his tail stiff while he growled angrily . 
Kunsi , who was terrified , jumped up , and holding his chair by one leg , cried Don't come in , don't come in , or I shall kill you . 
And the dog , excited by this threat , barked angrily at that invisible enemy who defied his master's voice . 
By degrees , however , he quieted down , came back and stretched himself in front of the fire . 
But he was uneasy , and kept his head up , and growled between his teeth . 
His ideas became vague , his courage revived , and a feverish glow ran through his veins . 
He ate scarcely anything the next day , and limited himself to alcohol so he lived for several days , like a drunken brute . 
As soon as he thought of Gaspard Hari he began to drink again , and went on drinking until he fell on to the floor , overcome by intoxication . 
And there he remained on his face , dead drunk , his limbs benumbed , and snoring with his face to the ground . 
In three weeks he had consumed all his stock of ardent spirits . 
But his continual drunkenness only lulled his terror , which awoke more furiously than ever , as soon as it was impossible for him to calm it by drinking . 
His fixed idea , which had been intensified by a month of drunkenness , and which was continually increasing in his absolute solitude ? pene trated him like a gimlet . 
Then as soon as he dozed , overcome by fatigue , he heard the voice which made him leap to his feet . 
But such a gust of cold wind blew into his face that it chilled him to the bone . 
He closed and bolted the door again immediately , without noticing that Sam had rushed out . 
Then , as he was shivering with cold , he threw some wood on the fire , and sat down in front of it to warm himself . 
But suddenly he started , for somebody was scratching at the wall , and crying . 
In desperation he called out Go away ! but was answered by another long , sorrowful wail . 
Then all his remaining senses forsook him , from sheer fright . 
He repeated Go away ! and turned round to find some corner in which to hide , while the other person went round the house still crying , and rubbing against the wall . 
Then piling up all the rest of the furniture , the mattresses , paillasses , and chairs , he stopped up the windows as men do when assailed by an enemy . 
But he felt hungry , and he ate . 
The winter was over , and the Gemmi pass was practicable again , so the Hauser family started off to return to their inn . 
As soon as they had reached the top of the ascent , the women mounted their mule , and spoke about the two men who they would meet again shortly . 
At last , however , they saw the inn , still covered with snow , like a quilt . 
They all looked closely at it , and the mother said That must be Sam . 
Then she shouted Hi ! Gaspard ! A cry from the interior of the house answered her , so sharp a cry that one might have thought some animal uttered it . 
Old Hauser repeated Hi ! Gaspard ! and they heard another cry , similar to the first . 
Then the three men , the father and the two sons , tried to open the door , but it resisted their efforts . 
From the empty cow stall they took a beam to serve as a battering ram , and hurled it against the door with all their might . 
They did not recognize him , but Louise Hauser exclaimed It is Ulrich , mother . 
And her mother declared that it was Ulrich , although his hair was white . 
Nobody ever knew what had become of his companion . 
Little Louise Hauser nearly died that summer of decline , which the medical men attributed to the cold air of the mountains . 
A FAMILY I was going to see my friend Simon Radevin once more , for I had not seen him for fifteen years . 
Formerly he was my most intimate friend , and I used to spend long , quiet , and happy evenings with him . 
Then he married quite unexpectedly married a little girl from the provinces , who had come to Paris in search of a husband . 
Yet his eyes were bright , full of pleasure and friendship , but they had not that clear , intelligent expression which tells better than do words the value of the mind . 
Suddenly he said to me Here are my two eldest children . 
How many have you ? Five ! There are three more indoors . 
The thought struck me that he was thinking of becoming a candidate for the Chamber of Deputies , that dream of all who have buried themselves in the provinces . 
That is my den , Simon said , so that he might be complimented on it , and I replied that it was delightful . 
A lady appeared on the steps , dressed up for a visitor , her hair done for a visitor , and with phrases ready prepared for a visitor . 
She welcomed me , and I went into the hall , where three children , ranged according to their height , were ranked for review , like firemen before a mayor . 
Ah ! ah ! so there are the others ? said I. And Simon , who was radiant with pleasure , named them Jean , Sophie , and Gontran . 
The door of the drawing room was open . 
I went in , and in the depths of an easy chair I saw something trembling , a man , an old , paralyzed man . 
Madame Radevin came forward and said This is my grandfather , Monsieur he is eighty seven . 
And then she shouted into the shaking old man's ears This is a friend of Simon's , grandpapa . 
The old gentleman tried to say Good day to me , and he muttered Oua , oua , oua , and waved his hand . 
I took a seat saying You are very kind , Monsieur . 
Simon had just come in , and he said with a laugh So ! You have made grandpapa's acquaintance . 
He is priceless , is that old man . 
He is the delight of the children , and he is so greedy that he almost kills himself at every meal . 
You have no idea what he would eat if he were allowed to do as he pleased . 
But you will see , you will see . 
He looks all the sweets over as if they were so many girls . 
You have never seen anything funnier you will see it presently . 
A bell rang it was for dinner , and so I went downstairs . 
Madame Radevin took my arm in a ceremonious manner , and we went into the dining room . 
Simon rubbed his hands , saying You will be amused . 
Just look ! Simon whispered . 
The grandfather did not like the soup , and refused to eat it but he was made to , on account of his health . 
With his eyes he devoured the dishes which were put on the table , and with trembling hands tried to seize them and pull them to him . 
They put them almost within his reach to see his useless efforts . 
his trembling clutches at them , the piteous appeal of his whole nature , of his eyes , of his mouth , and of his nose as he smelled them . 
He slobbered on to his table napkin with eagerness , while uttering inarticulate grunts , and the whole family was highly amused at this horrible and grotesque scene . 
Then they put a tiny morsel on to his plate , which he ate with feverish gluttony , in order to get something more as soon as possible . 
When the rice cream was brought in , he nearly had a fit , and groaned with greediness . 
Gontran called out to him You have eaten too much already you will have no more . 
And they pretended not to give him any . 
Then he began to cry cry and tremble more violently than ever , while all the children laughed . 
At last , however , they gave him his helping , a very small piece . 
I held my tongue , and thought over these words . 
There was nothing left for him to do in this life , nothing whatever . 
No doubt the bird was singing thus in a low voice during the night , to lull his mate , who was sleeping on her eggs . 
And I thought of my poor friend's five children , and to myself pictured him snoring by the side of his ugly wife , BELLFLOWER Clochette . 
She was an old seamstress who came to my parents' house once a week , every Thursday , to mend the linen . 
My parents lived in one of those country houses called chateaux , which are merely old houses with pointed roofs , to which are attached three or four adjacent farms . 
Well , every Thursday Mother Bellflower came between half past six and seven in the morning , and went immediately into the linen room and began to work . 
She limped , but not like lame people generally do , but like a ship pitching . 
As soon as I was up I used to go into the linen room , where I found her installed at work , with a foot warmer under her feet . 
That draws the blood from your head , she would say to me . 
As far as I can remember from the things which she told me and by which my childish heart was moved , she had the large heart of a poor woman . 
I remember it all as clearly as what happened only yesterday . 
I ran away uttering shrill cries . 
They all came running , and in a few minutes I was told that Mother Clochette was dead . 
I cannot describe the profound , poignant , terrible emotion which stirred my childish heart . 
I went slowly down into the drawing room and hid myself in a dark corner , in the depths of a great , old arm chair , where I knelt and wept . 
I remained there for a long time no doubt , for night came on . 
Suddenly some one came in with a lamp without seeing me , however and I heard my father and mother talking with the medical man , whose voice I recognized . 
He had been sent for immediately , and he was explaining the cause of the accident , of which I understood nothing , however . 
Then he sat down and had a glass of liqueur and a biscuit . 
He went on talking , and what he then said will remain engraved on my mind until I die ! I think that I can give the exact words which he used . 
Ah ! said he , the poor woman ! she broke her leg the day of my arrival here . 
I had not even had time to wash my hands after getting off the diligence before I was sent for in all haste , for it was a bad case , very bad . 
Now that she is dead , I may be less discreet . 
A young assistant teacher had just come to live in the village he was good looking and had the bearing of a soldier . 
All the girls ran after him , but he was disdainful . 
Besides that , he was very much afraid of his superior , the schoolmaster , old Grabu , who occasionally got out of bed the wrong foot first . 
Old Grabu already employed pretty Hortense , who has just died here , and who was afterward nicknamed Clochette . 
She pretended to go home , but instead of going downstairs when she left the Grabus' , she went upstairs and hid among the hay , to wait for her lover . 
The loft was very large and absolutely dark . 
Sigisbert pushed the frightened girl to the further end and said 'Go there and hide yourself . 
I shall lose my situation , so get away and hide yourself . 
When the schoolmaster heard the whispering , he continued 'Why , you are not by yourself ? 'Yes I am , Monsieur Grabu ! 'But you are not , for you are talking . 
'I swear I am , Monsieur Grabu . 
'I will soon find out , the old man replied , and double locking the door , he went down to get a light . 
Old Grabu found nobody , and went down again in great surprise . 
A quarter of an hour later , Monsieur Sigisbert came to me and related his adventure . 
The girl had remained at the foot of the wall unable to get up , as she had fallen from the second story , and I went with him to fetch her . 
They believed me , and the gendarmes for a whole month tried in vain to find the author of this accident . 
That is all ! Now I say that this woman was a heroine , and had the fiber of those who accomplish the grandest deeds in history . 
That was her only love affair , and she died a virgin . 
They were carrying away Clochette's body . 
WHO KNOWS ? My God ! My God ! I am going to write down at last what has happened to me . 
After all , who knows ? Yesterday I was in a private asylum , but I went there voluntarily , out of prudence and fear . 
Only one single human being knows my history , and that is the doctor of the said asylum . 
I am going to write to him . 
I really do not know why ? To disembarrass myself ? Yea , I feel as though weighed down by an intolerable nightmare . 
I have constantly lived alone consequently , a kind of torture takes hold of me when I find myself in the presence of others . 
How is this to be explained ? I do not know . 
That desire is more than a craving it is an irresistible necessity . 
I cannot live in Paris , because there I suffer the most acute agony . 
I lead a moral life , and am therefore tortured in body and in nerves by that immense crowd which swarms and lives even when it sleeps . 
Ah ! the sleeping of others is more painful still than their conversation . 
And I can never find repose when I know and feel that on the other side of a wall several existences are undergoing these regular eclipses of reason . 
Why am I thus ? Who knows ? The cause of it is very simple perhaps . 
I get tired very soon of everything that does not emanate from me . 
And there are many people in similar case . 
We are , on earth , two distinct races . 
In fine , there is here a normal , physical phenomenon . 
Some are constituted to live a life outside of themselves , others , to live a life within themselves . 
One day Signad had been played at one of the city theaters . 
It was the first time that I had listened to that beautiful , musical , and fairy like drama , and I had derived from it the liveliest pleasures . 
I returned home on foot with a light step , my head full of sonorous phrases , and my mind haunted by delightful visions . 
It was night , the dead of night , and so dark that I could hardly distinguish the broad highway , and consequently I stumbled into the ditch more than once . 
From the custom house , at the barriers , to my house , was about a mile , perhaps a little more a leisurely walk of about twenty minutes . 
Every prowler by night has made the same observation . 
In the distance , I perceived the somber mass of my garden , and , I know not why , was seized with a feeling of uneasiness at the idea of going inside . 
I slackened my pace , and walked very softly , the thick cluster of trees having the appearance of a tomb in which my house was buried . 
While approaching the house , I was seized by a strange feeling . 
I could hear nothing , I stood still . 
Through the trees there was not even a breath of air stirring . 
What is the matter with me ? I said to myself . 
For ten years I had entered and re entered in the same way , without ever experiencing the least inquietude . 
I never had any fear at nights . 
The sight of a man , a marauder , or a thief would have thrown me into a fit of anger , and I would have rushed at him without any hesitation . 
Moreover , I was armed I had my revolver . 
But I did not touch it , for I was anxious to resist that feeling of dread with which I was seized . 
I sat down , then , on a bench , under the windows of my drawing room . 
I rested there , a little disturbed , with my head leaning against the wall , my eyes wide open , under the shade of the foliage . 
For the first few minutes , I did not observe anything unusual around me I had a humming noise in my ears , but that has happened often to me . 
Sometimes it seemed to me that I heard trains passing , that I heard clocks striking , that I heard a multitude on the march . 
Very soon , those humming noises became more distinct , more concentrated , more determinable , I was deceiving myself . 
I doubted , however , for some considerable time yet , the evidence of my ears . 
I had no fear , but I was how shall I express it paralyzed by astonishment . 
I did not draw my revolver , knowing very well that there was no need of my doing so . 
I listened a long time , but could come to no resolution , my mind being quite clear , though in myself I was naturally anxious . 
Then , suddenly , ashamed of my timidity , I seized my bunch of keys . 
I selected the one I wanted , guided it into the lock , turned it twice , and pushing the door with all my might , sent it banging against the partition . 
The collision sounded like the report of a gun , and there responded to that explosive noise , from roof to basement of my residence , a formidable tumult . 
I continued to listen for some time longer . 
Then I suddenly discerned , on the threshold of my door , an armchair , my large reading easy chair , which set off waddling . 
It went away through my garden . 
As I was resisting in desperation that insuperable force , I was thrown to the ground . 
When I loosed my hold , other articles had passed over my body , just as a charge of cavalry does over the body of a dismounted soldier . 
I then heard , in the distance , noises which came from my apartments , which sounded now as if the house were empty , a loud noise of shutting of doors . 
I took flight also , running toward the city , and only regained my self composure , on reaching the boulevards , where I met belated people . 
I rang the bell of a hotel were I was known . 
I covered myself up to the eyes in the bed which was assigned to me , but could not sleep and I waited for the dawn listening to the throbbing of my heart . 
I had given orders that my servants were to be summoned to the hotel at daybreak , and my valet de chambre knocked at my door at seven o'clock in the morning . 
His countenance bore a woeful look . 
A great misfortune has happened during the night , Monsieur , said he . 
What is it ? Somebody has stolen the whole of Monsieur's furniture , all , everything , even to the smallest articles . 
I responded They must then be the same people who have stolen my keys . 
The police must be informed immediately . 
I am going to get up , and I will join you in a few moments . 
The investigation into the circumstances under which the robbery might have been committed lasted for five months . 
Nothing was found , not even the smallest of my knickknacks , nor the least trace of the thieves . 
Yes ! but I knew how to keep silence . 
I shall never refurnish my house . 
The same thing would happen again . 
I had no desire even to re enter the house , and I did not re enter it I never visited it again . 
I moved to Paris , to the hotel , and consulted doctors in regard to the condition of my nerves , which had disquieted me a good deal ever since that awful night . 
They advised me to travel , and I followed their counsel . 
I began by making an excursion into Italy . 
The sunshine did me much good . 
For six months I wandered about from Genoa to Venice , from Venice to Florence , from Florence to Rome , from Rome to Naples . 
Then I traveled over Sicily , a country celebrated for its scenery and its monuments , relics left by the Greeks and the Normans . 
I returned to France by Marseilles , and in spite of all its Provencal gaiety , the diminished clearness of the sky made me sad . 
I then returned to Paris . 
At the end of a month I was very dejected . 
It was in the autumn , and I determined to make , before winter came , an excursion through Normandy , a country with which I was unacquainted . 
My affection for antiques was awakened in that city of antiquaries . 
I went from shop to shop , crossing in two strides the rotten four plank bridges thrown over the nauseous current of the Eau de Robec . 
I approached it , trembling in every limb , trembling to such an extent that I dared not touch it , I put forth my hand , I hesitated . 
Nevertheless it was indeed my wardrobe a unique wardrobe of the time of Louis XIII . 
, recognizable by anyone who had seen it only once . 
tables , such rare treasures that people came all the way from Paris to see them . 
I walked on , descending to the dark galleries , in order to ascend next to the floors above . 
I was alone I called out , nobody answered , I was alone there was no one in that house a house as vast and tortuous as a labyrinth . 
Night came on , and I was compelled to sit down in the darkness on one of my own chairs , for I had no desire to go away . 
From time to time I shouted , Hallo , hallo , somebody . 
I had sat there , certainly , for more than an hour when I heard steps , steps soft and slow , I knew not where . 
I was unable to locate them , but bracing myself up , I called out anew , whereupon I perceived a glimmer of light in the next chamber . 
Who is there ? said a voice . 
A buyer , I responded . 
It is too late to enter thus into a shop . 
I have been waiting for you for more than an hour , I answered . 
You can come back to morrow . 
To morrow I must quit Rouen . 
I dared not advance , and he did not come to me . 
I saw always the glimmer of his light , which was shining on a tapestry on which were two angels flying over the dead on a field of battle . 
It belonged to me also . 
I said Well , come here . 
I am at your service , he answered . 
I got up and went toward him . 
Standing in the center of a large room , was a little man , very short , and very fat , phenomenally fat , a hideous phenomenon . 
His features were wrinkled and blown , and his eyes could not be seen . 
I bought three chairs which belonged to myself , and paid at once a large sum for them , giving him merely the number of my room at the hotel . 
They were to be delivered the next day before nine o'clock . 
He conducted me , with much politeness , as far as the door . 
I immediately repaired to the commissaire's office at the central police depot , and told the commissaire of the robbery which had been perpetrated and of the discovery I had just made . 
An hour later , an answer came back , which was in accord with my statements . 
Will you go and dine and return in two hours I shall then have the man here , and I shall subject him to a fresh interrogation in your presence . 
I thank you with my whole heart . 
I went to dine at my hotel and I ate better than I could have believed . 
I was quite happy now , thinking that man was in the hands of the police . 
Two hours later I returned to the office of the police functionary , who was waiting for me . 
Well , Monsieur , said he , on perceiving me , we have not been able to find your man . 
My agents cannot put their hands on him . 
Ah ! I felt my heart sinking . 
But you have at least found his house ? I asked . 
Yes , certainly and what is more , it is now being watched and guarded until his return . 
As for him , he has disappeared . 
Disappeared ? Yes , disappeared . 
He ordinarily passes his evenings at the house of a female neighbor , who is also a furniture broker , a queer sort of sorceress , the widow Bidoin . 
She has not seen him this evening and cannot give any information in regard to him . 
We must wait until to morrow . 
As I did not wish to appear too restless or eager , I waited till ten o'clock the next day before reporting myself to the police . 
The merchant had not reappeared . 
The commissary said to me I have taken all the necessary steps . 
The court has been made acquainted with the affair . 
We shall go together to that shop and have it opened , and you shall point out to me all that belongs to you . 
We drove there in a cab . 
Police agents were stationed round the building there was a locksmith , too , and the door of the shop was soon opened . 
The chief commissary , much astonished , regarded me at first with suspicion . 
My God , Monsieur , said I to him , the disappearance of these articles of furniture coincides strangely with that of the merchant . 
You did wrong in buying and paying for the articles which were your own property , yesterday . 
It was that which gave him the cue . 
What seems to me incomprehensible , I replied , is that all the places that were occupied by my furniture are now filled by other furniture . 
Oh ! responded the commissary , he has had all night , and has no doubt been assisted by accomplices . 
This house must communicate with its neighbors . 
But have no fear , Monsieur I will have the affair promptly and thoroughly investigated . 
The brigand shall not escape us for long , seeing that we are in charge of the den . 
Ah ! My heart , my heart , my poor heart , how it beats ! I remained a fortnight at Rouen . 
The man did not return . 
The whole of the furniture has been returned , not one piece is missing everything is in its place , up to the very smallest article . 
The house is now the same in every respect as it was before the robbery took place . 
It is enough to make one lose one's head . 
The thing took place during the night Friday Saturday . 
The roads are dug up as though the whole fence had been dragged from its place up to the door . 
The same thing was observed the day after the disappearance of the furniture . 
We are anxiously expecting Monsieur , whose very humble and obedient servant , I am , PHILLIPE RAUDIN . 
Ah ! no , no , ah ! never , never , ah ! no . 
I shall never return there ! I took the letter to the commissary of police . 
It is a very clever restitution , said he . 
Let us bury the hatchet . 
We shall nip the man one of these days . 
But he has never been nipped . 
No. They have not nipped him , and I am afraid of him now , as of some ferocious animal that has been let loose behind me . 
Inexplicable ! It is inexplicable , this chimera of a moon struck skull ! We shall never solve or comprehend it . 
I shall not return to my former residence . 
What does it matter to me ? I am afraid of encountering that man again , and I shall not run the risk . 
Ah ! no ! This kind of existence has become unendurable . 
I have not been able to guard the secret of what I have seen . 
I could not continue to live like the rest of the world , with the fear upon me that those scenes might be re enacted . 
So I have come to consult the doctor who directs this lunatic asylum , and I have told him everything . 
After questioning me for a long time , he said to me Will you consent , Monsieur , to remain here for some time ? Most willingly , Monsieur . 
You have some means ? Yes , Monsieur . 
Will you have isolated apartments ? Yes , Monsieur . 
Would you care to receive any friends ? No , Monsieur , no , nobody . 
The man from Rouen might take it into his head to pursue me here , to be revenged on me . 
I have been alone , alone , all , all alone , for three months . 
I am growing tranquil by degrees . 
I have no longer any fears . 
If the antiquary should become mad . 
and if he should be brought into this asylum ! Even prisons themselves are not places of security . 
She was going to die , and she did not rebel at it , for her life was over she was ninety two . 
The smell of the fields came in also , driven by the brisk wind , and parched by the noontide heat . 
The grasshoppers chirped themselves hoarse , filling the air with their shrill noise , like that of the wooden crickets which are sold to children at fair time . 
The doctor raised his voice and said Honore , you cannot leave your mother in this state she may die at any moment . 
But the doctor got angry , and stamping his foot he said You are no better than a brute , do you hear , and I will not allow you to do it . 
Do you understand ? And if you must get in your wheat to day , go and fetch Rapet's wife and make her look after your mother . 
That depends upon how long she is wanted for . 
Settle it with her , by Jove ! But I want her to be here within an hour , do you hear . 
So the man made up his mind . 
I will go for her , he replied don't get angry , doctor . 
Don't go off while I am away . 
And he went out in his turn . 
How much are you going to ask to stop with her till the end ? You know that I am not rich , and I cannot even afford to keep a servant girl . 
You don't find any made of that stuff nowadays ! La Rapet answered gravely There are two prices . 
Forty sous by day and three francs by night for the rich , and twenty sous by day , and forty by night for the others . 
You shall pay me the twenty and forty . 
But the peasant reflected , for he knew his mother well . 
He knew how tenacious of life , how vigorous and unyielding she was . 
I will take my chance , one way or the other . 
The doctor says she will die very soon . 
But almost immediately she suspected that he wanted to juggle her . 
I can say nothing until I have seen your mother , she replied . 
Then come with me and see her . 
She washed her hands , and went with him immediately . 
When they got near the house , Honore Bontemps murmured Suppose it is all over ? And the unconscious wish that it might be so showed itself in the sound of his voice . 
But the old woman was not dead . 
You will have to give me six francs , everything included . 
Six francs ! six francs ! he shouted . 
That is settled , six francs . 
The priest came immediately in his surplice , preceded by a choir boy , who rang a bell to announce the passage of the Host through the parched and quiet country . 
The choir boy , in his red cassock , walked quickly , and the priest , the square biretta on his bowed head , followed him , muttering some prayers . 
Last of all came La Rapet , bent almost double , as if she wished to prostrate herself she walked with folded hands , as if she were in church . 
Mother Bontemps confessed , received absolution and extreme unction , and the priest took his departure , leaving the two women alone in the suffocating cottage . 
La Rapet began to look at the dying woman , and to ask herself whether it could last much longer . 
Lying motionless , with her eyes open , the old mother seemed to await the death which was so near , and which yet delayed its coming with perfect indifference . 
Her short breath whistled in her throat . 
It would stop altogether soon , and there would be one woman less in the world , one whom nobody would regret . 
Then he sent La Rapet away , saying to her To morrow morning at five o'clock , without fail . 
And she replied To morrow at five o'clock . 
She came at daybreak , and found Honore eating his soup , which he had made himself , before going to work . 
Well , is your mother dead ? asked the nurse . 
She is rather better , on the contrary , he replied , with a malignant look out of the corner of his eyes . 
The nurse perceived that this might go on thus for two days , four days , eight days , even , and her avaricious mind was seized with fear . 
She was excited to fury against the cunning fellow who had tricked her , and against the woman who would not die . 
Nevertheless , she began to sew and waited with her eyes fixed on the wrinkled face of Mother Bontemps . 
When Honore returned to breakfast he seemed quite satisfied , and even in a bantering humor , for he was carrying in his wheat under very favorable circumstances . 
La Rapet was getting exasperated every passing minute now seemed to her so much time and money stolen from her . 
Some minutes before one dies the Devil appears , she said , to all . 
He has a broom in his hand , a saucepan on his head and he utters loud cries . 
Suddenly La Rapet disappeared at the foot of the bed . 
Certainly when it came down , it made a terrible noise . 
When Honore returned in the evening , he found her praying . 
The evening before we had cut down a few Uhlans and had lost three men , one of whom was that poor little Raudeville . 
You remember Joseph de Raudeville well , of course . 
There were not twenty houses left standing , nay , not a dozen , in that wasp's nest . 
So I took ten troopers , and set out at about four o'clock at five o'clock , while it was still pitch dark , we reached the first houses of Porterin . 
I had chosen nothing but volunteers , and all of good family . 
When on service it is pleasant not to be forced into intimacy with unpleasant fellows . 
This Marchas was as sharp as possible , as cunning as a fox , and as supple as a serpent . 
In ten minutes he returned . 
'All right , he said 'there have been no Prussians here for three days . 
It is a sinister place , is this village . 
I have been talking to a Sister of Mercy , who is attending to four or five wounded men in an abandoned convent . 
I ordered them to ride on , and we penetrated into the principal street . 
On the right and left we could vaguely see roofless walls , hardly visible in the profound darkness . 
The rain began to fall , a fine , icy cold rain , which froze us before it wetted us through , by merely touching our cloaks . 
The horses stumbled against stones , against beams , against furniture . 
Marchas guided us , going before us on foot , and leading his horse by the bridle . 
'Where are you taking us to ? I asked him . 
And he replied 'I have a place for us to lodge in , and a rare good one . 
'How many men are you going to take ? 'Five . 
The others will relieve them at five o'clock in the evening . 
Leave me four to look after provisions , to do the cooking , and to set the table . 
I will go and find out where the wine is hidden away . 
I went off to reconnoiter the deserted streets , until they ended in the open country , so as to post my sentries there . 
Half an hour later I was back , and found Marchas lounging in a great armchair , the covering of which he had taken off , from love of luxury as he said . 
He was warming his feet at the fire and smoking an excellent cigar , whose perfume filled the room . 
He was alone , his elbows resting on the arms of the chair , his cheeks flushed , his eyes bright , and looking delighted . 
As for solids , we have two fowls , a goose , a duck , and three pigeons . 
They are being cooked at this moment . 
It is a delightful part of the country . 
I had sat down opposite to him , and the fire in the grate was burning my nose and cheeks . 
'Where did you find this wood ? I asked . 
'Splendid wood , he replied . 
It is the paint which is causing all this flame , an essence of alcohol and varnish . 
Go and look , old fellow . 
He looked so grave , so convinced , that I could not tell whether he was joking or not . 
So I replied 'Look here , Marchas , are you having a joke with me ? 'I never joke on duty . 
I got up , for it was too hot in front of the fire , and Marchas went on 'Do you want an idea ? 'Yes . 
'Go and see the priest . 
'The priest ? What for ? 'Ask him to supper , and beg him to bring a woman with him . 
But tell him that we want one woman at least , a lady , of course , since we are all men of the world . 
'Come , come , Marchas , what are you thinking of ? 'My dear Garens , you can do this quite well . 
It will be very funny . 
We are well bred , by Jove ! and we will put on our most distinguished manners and our grandest style . 
Tell the abbe who we are , make him laugh , soften him , seduce him , and persuade him ! 'No , it is impossible . 
I hesitated , for the adventure rather tempted me . 
He persisted 'Come , my little Garens . 
You are in command of this detachment , and you alone can go and call on the head of the church in this neighborhood . 
I beg of you to go , and I promise you that after the war , I will relate the whole affair in verse in the Revue des Deux Mondes . 
You owe this much to your men , for you have made them march enough during the last month . 
The parsonage is beside it . 
I heard the noise of bolts , and of a key being turned . 
I gave him a military salute and said 'Good day , Monsieur le Cure . 
He had feared a surprise , some marauders' ambush , and he smiled as he replied 'Good day , my friend come in . 
I followed him into a small room , with a red tiled floor , in which a small fire was burning , very different to Marchas's furnace . 
I continued 'There are eleven of us here Monsieur l'Abbe , five on grand guard , and six installed at the house of an unknown inhabitant . 
, Pierre de Marchas , Ludovic de Ponderel , Baron d'Etreillis , Karl Massouligny , the painter's son , and Joseph Herbon , a young musician . 
I have come to ask you , in their name and my own , to do us the honor of supping with us . 
It is an Epiphany supper , Monsieur le Cure , and we should like to make it a little cheerful . 
The priest smiled and murmured 'It seems to me to be hardly a suitable occasion for amusing oneself . 
I replied 'We are fighting every day , Monsieur . 
Fourteen of our comrades have been killed in a month , and three fell as late as yesterday . 
We stake our life every moment have we not , therefore , the right to amuse ourselves freely ? We are Frenchmen , we like to laugh , and we can laugh everywhere . 
Our fathers laughed on the scaffold ! This evening we should like to brighten ourselves up a little , like gentlemen , and not like soldiers you understand me , I hope . 
Are we wrong ? He replied quickly 'You are quite right , my friend , and I accept your invitation with great pleasure . 
'Where are you going to dine then ? 'With some gentlemen , hussars . 
The baker and his wife , the grocer , the the the watchmaker the shoemaker the the chemist with his wife . 
We have a good spread , and plenty of wine , and we should be enchanted to leave pleasant recollections of ourselves behind us with the people here . 
The priest thought again for a long time and then said resolutely 'No , there is nobody . 
'By Jove , Monsieur le Cure , it is very vexing not to have an Epiphany queen , for we have the bean . 
Is there not a married mayor , or a married deputy mayor , or a married municipal councilor , or schoolmaster ? 'No all the ladies have gone away . 
I have got what you want ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! We will laugh and enjoy ourselves , my children , we will have some fun . 
How pleased the ladies will be , I say , how delighted they will be . 
Ha ! ha ! Where are you staying ? I described the house , and he understood where it was . 
'Very good , he said . 
'It belongs to Monsieur Bertin Lavaille . 
I will be there in half an hour , with four ladies . 
I returned quickly , very much astonished and very much puzzled . 
'Covers for how many ? Marchas asked , as soon as he saw me . 
There are six of us hussars besides the priest and four ladies . 
He was thunderstruck , and I triumphant , and he repeated 'Four ladies ! Did you say , four ladies ? 'I said four women . 
'Real women ? 'Real women . 
'Well , accept my compliments ! 'I will , for I deserve them . 
'There are some women coming ! Marchas cried . 
And the three men began to dance and to cheer with all their might . 
Everything was ready , and we were waiting . 
We waited for nearly an hour , while a delicious smell of roast poultry pervaded the whole house . 
At last , however , a knock against the shutters made us all jump up at the same moment . 
Stout Ponderel ran to open the door , and in less than a minute a little Sister of Mercy appeared in the doorway . 
She was thin , wrinkled , and timid , and successively saluted the four bewildered hussars who saw her enter . 
Behind her , the noise of sticks sounded on the tiled floor in the vestibule . 
They have very little pleasure in life , and you are at the same time giving them a great treat and doing them a great honor . 
Then , motioning the nun to the seats , I said 'Sit down , Sister we are very proud and very happy that you have accepted our unpretentious invitation . 
Then she pointed to another , a tall woman , whose head shook unceasingly 'This is Mother Jean Jean , who is sixty seven . 
She is nearly blind , for her face was terribly singed in a fire , and her right leg was half burned off . 
Then she pointed to the third , a sort of dwarf , with protruding , round , stupid eyes , which she rolled incessantly in all directions . 
'This is La Putois , an idiot . 
She is only forty four . 
Then we sat down , and the two fowls appeared , brought in by Marchas , who chose to wait rather than to sit down as a guest at this ridiculous repast . 
The nun said to Massouligny in consternation 'Oh ! oh ! you will make her ill pray do not make her laugh like that , Monsieur . 
'Allow me to carve this bird , the cure said . 
'I understand these sort of operations better than most people . 
'Certainly , Monsieur l'Abbe , and the Sister said 'How would it be to open the window a little they are too warm , and I am afraid they will be ill . 
I turned to Marchas 'Open the window for a minute . 
At that moment , in the midst of greedy silence which kept us all attentive , the distant report of a shot came in at the open window . 
I shall expect you back here in five minutes . 
We heard nothing more , except the barking of a dog in the distance . 
The rain had ceased , and it was cold , very cold . 
Soon I heard the gallop of a horse , of a single horse , coming back . 
They are bringing him here , and we shall see what is the matter . 
I gave orders for the horses to be put back into the stable , and I sent my two soldiers to meet the others , and returned to the house . 
Soon I heard the rattle of sabers on the road , and I took a candle to show a light to the men who were returning . 
They soon appeared , carrying that inert , soft , long , and sinister object which a human body becomes when life no longer sustains it . 
They put the wounded man on the mattress that had been prepared for him , and I saw at the first glance that he was dying . 
He had the death rattle , and was spitting up blood which ran out of the corners of his mouth , forced out of his lungs by his gasps . 
The old man , wrapped up in a large shepherd's cloak , occasionally opened his dull , vacant eyes . 
They seemed stupid with astonishment , like the eyes of hunted animals which fall at the sportsman's feet , half dead before the shot , stupefied with fear and surprise . 
The cure exclaimed 'Ah ! there is old Placide , the shepherd from Les Marlins . 
He is deaf , poor man , and heard nothing . 
'There is nothing to be done , she said . 
The shepherd was gasping terribly and bringing up blood with every breath . 
In his throat to the very depth of his lungs , they could hear an ominous and continued gurgling . 
But before they were finished , the old man was shaken by a rapid shudder , as if something had broken inside him he no longer breathed . 
When I turned round I saw a sight which was even more horrible than the death struggle of this unfortunate man . 
The three old women were standing up huddled close together , hideous , and grimacing with fear and horror . 
I saw that I could not even let a hussar accompany them , for the mere rattle of a sword would have sent them mad with fear . 
The cure was still looking at the dead man but at last he turned to me and said 'Oh ! What a horrible thing ! SIMON'S PAPA Noon had just struck . 
The school door opened and the youngsters streamed out tumbling over one another in their haste to get out quickly . 
But instead of promptly dispersing and going home to dinner as was their daily wont , they stopped a few paces off , broke up into knots and set to whispering . 
The fact was that that morning Simon , the son of La Blanchotte , had , for the first time , attended school . 
La Blanchotte's son appeared in his turn upon the threshold of the school . 
He was seven or eight years old , rather pale , very neat , with a timid and almost awkward manner . 
There he stood amid them , surprised and embarrassed , not understanding what they were going to do with him . 
But the lad who had brought the news , puffed up with the success he had met with , demanded What do you call yourself ? He answered Simon . 
Simon what ? retorted the other . 
The child , altogether bewildered , repeated Simon . 
The lad triumphantly lifted up his voice You can see plainly that he has no papa . 
As for Simon , he had propped himself against a tree to avoid falling , and he stood there as if paralyzed by an irreparable disaster . 
He sought to explain , but he could think of no answer for them , no way to deny this horrible charge that he had no papa . 
At last he shouted at them quite recklessly Yes , I have one . 
Where is he ? demanded the boy . 
Simon was silent , he did not know . 
The children shrieked , tremendously excited . 
These sons of toil , nearly related to animals , experienced the cruel craving which makes the fowls of a farmyard destroy one of their own kind as soon as it is wounded . 
Simon suddenly spied a little neighbor , the son of a widow , whom he had always seen , as he himself was to be seen , quite alone with his mother . 
And no more have you , he said , no more have you a papa . 
Yes , replied the other , I have one . 
Where is he ? rejoined Simon . 
He is dead , declared the brat with superb dignity , he is in the cemetery , is my papa . 
A tremendous struggle ensued between the two boys , and Simon found himself beaten , torn , bruised , rolled on the ground in the middle of the ring of applauding little vagabonds . 
As he arose , mechanically brushing his little blouse all covered with dust with his hand , some one shouted at him Go and tell your papa . 
He then felt a great sinking in his heart . 
They were stronger than he , they had beaten him and he had no answer to give them , for he knew it was true that he had no papa . 
Full of pride he tried for some moments to struggle against the tears which were suffocating him . 
He had a choking fit , and then without cries he began to weep with great sobs which shook him incessantly . 
There were stones under his feet he picked them up and with all his strength hurled them at his tormentors . 
Two or three were struck and ran away yelling , and so formidable did he appear that the rest became panic stricken . 
Cowards , like a jeering crowd in the presence of an exasperated man , they broke up and fled . 
Left alone , the little thing without a father set off running toward the fields , for a recollection had been awakened which nerved his soul to a great determination . 
He made up his mind to drown himself in the river . 
He remembered , in fact , that eight days ago a poor devil who begged for his livelihood had thrown himself into the water because he had no more money . 
The bystanders had said He is dead . 
And some one had added He is quite happy now . 
So Simon wished to drown himself also because he had no father , just as the wretched being did who had no money . 
He reached the water and watched it flowing . 
Some fishes were rising briskly in the clear stream and occasionally made little leaps and caught the flies on the surface . 
He stopped crying in order to watch them , for their feeding interested him vastly . 
It was very warm and fine weather . 
A little green frog leaped from under his feet . 
He endeavored to catch it . 
He pursued it and lost it three times following . 
At last he caught it by one of its hind legs and began to laugh as he saw the efforts the creature made to escape . 
It gathered itself up on its large legs and then with a violent spring suddenly stretched them out as stiff as two bars . 
Its eyes stared wide open in their round , golden circle , and it beat the air with its front limbs , using them as though they were hands . 
Then he thought of his home and of his mother , and overcome by great sorrow he again began to weep . 
His limbs trembled and he placed himself on his knees and said his prayers as before going to bed . 
But he was unable to finish them , for such hurried and violent sobs overtook him that he was completely overwhelmed . 
He thought no more , he no longer heeded anything around him but was wholly given up to tears . 
Suddenly a heavy hand was placed upon his shoulder , and a rough voice asked him What is it that causes you so much grief , my fine fellow ? Simon turned round . 
A tall workman , with a black beard and hair all curled , was staring at him good naturedly . 
He answered with his eyes and throat full of tears They have beaten me because I I have no papa no papa . 
What ! said the man smiling , why , everybody has one . 
The child answered painfully amid his spasms of grief But I I I have none . 
Then the workman became serious . 
He had recognized La Blanchotte's son , and although a recent arrival to the neighborhood he had a vague idea of her history . 
Well , said he , console yourself , my boy , and come with me home to your mother . 
She will give you a papa . 
And so they started on the way , the big one holding the little one by the hand . 
They arrived in front of a very neat little white house . 
There it is , exclaimed the child , and he cried Mamma . 
Intimidated , his cap in his hand , he stammered out See , Madame , I have brought you back your little boy , who had lost himself near the river . 
A burning redness covered the young woman's cheeks , and , hurt to the quick , she embraced her child passionately , while the tears coursed down her face . 
The man , much moved , stood there , not knowing how to get away . 
But Simon suddenly ran to him and said Will you be my papa ? A deep silence ensued . 
La Blanchotte , dumb and tortured with shame , leaned against the wall , her hands upon her heart . 
The child , seeing that no answer was made him , replied If you do not wish it , I shall return to drown myself . 
The workman took the matter as a jest and answered laughing Why , yes , I wish it certainly . 
What is your name , then , went on the child , so that I may tell the others when they wish to know your name ? Philip , answered the man . 
The workman , lifting him from the ground , kissed him hastily on both cheeks , and then strode away quickly . 
Yells of delight burst out from all sides . 
The schoolmaster came to his rescue and he returned home to his mother . 
She answered him civilly , always sedately , never joking with him , nor permitting him to enter her house . 
Notwithstanding this , being , like all men , a bit of a coxcomb , he imagined that she was often rosier than usual when she chatted with him . 
But a fallen reputation is so difficult to recover , and always remains so fragile that , in spite of the shy reserve La Blanchotte maintained , they already gossiped in the neighborhood . 
As for Simon , he loved his new papa much , and walked with him nearly every evening when the day's work was done . 
He went regularly to school and mixed in a dignified way with his schoolfellows without ever answering them back . 
One day , however , the lad who had first attacked him said to him You have lied . 
You have not a papa named Philip . 
Why do you say that ? demanded Simon , much disturbed . 
The youth rubbed his hands . 
He replied Because if you had one he would be your mamma's husband . 
Simon was confused by the truth of this reasoning nevertheless he retorted He is my papa all the same . 
That can very well be , exclaimed the urchin with a sneer , but that is not being your papa altogether . 
La Blanchotte's little one bowed his head and went off dreaming in the direction of the forge belonging to old Loizon , where Philip worked . 
This forge was entombed in trees . 
It was very dark there , the red glare of a formidable furnace alone lit up with great flashes five blacksmiths , who hammered upon their anvils with a terrible din . 
Standing enveloped in flame , they worked like demons , their eyes fixed on the red hot iron they were pounding and their dull ideas rising and falling with their hammers . 
Simon entered without being noticed and quietly plucked his friend by the sleeve . 
All at once the work came to a standstill and the men looked on very attentively . 
And why that ? asked the smith . 
The child replied in all innocence Because you are not my mamma's husband . 
Philip remained standing , leaning his forehead upon the back of his great hands , which held the handle of his hammer upright upon the anvil . 
His four companions watched him , and , like a tiny mite among these giants , Simon anxiously waited . 
That is true , remarked the three others . 
That is true , responded the three men in chorus . 
That also is true , said the others . 
Then no more was heard save the roar of the bellows which fanned the fire of the furnace . 
Philip hastily bent himself down to Simon Go and tell your mamma that I shall come to speak to her . 
Then he pushed the child out by the shoulders . 
He returned to his work and in unison the five hammers again fell upon their anvils . 
Thus they wrought the iron until nightfall , strong , powerful , happy , like Vulcans satisfied . 
His eye on the fire , he plied his trade vigorously , erect amid the sparks . 
The sky was full of stars as he knocked at La Blanchotte's door . 
He had his Sunday blouse on , a fresh shirt , and his beard was trimmed . 
The young woman showed herself upon the threshold and said in a grieved tone It is ill to come thus when night has fallen , Mr. Philip . 
He wished to answer , but stammered and stood confused before her . 
She resumed And you understand quite well that it will not do that I should be talked about any more . 
He entered very quickly and Simon , who had gone to his bed , distinguished the sound of a kiss and some words that his mother said very softly . 
WAITER , A BOCK Bavarian beer . 
Why on this particular evening , did I enter a certain beer shop ? I cannot explain it . 
I was going nowhere in particular was simply having a short walk after dinner . 
I had passed the Credit Lyonnais , the Rue Vivienne , and several other streets . 
Suddenly I descried a large cafe , which was more than half full . 
I walked inside , with no object in mind . 
I was not the least thirsty . 
By a searching glance I detected a place where I would not be too much crowded . 
From six to eight beer saucers were piled up on the table in front of him , indicating the number of bocks he had already absorbed . 
He was dirty , bald to about the middle of the cranium , while his long gray hair fell over the neck of his frock coat . 
His clothes , much too large for him , appeared to have been made for him at a time when he was very stout . 
One could guess that his pantaloons were not held up by braces , and that this man could not take ten paces without having to pull them up and readjust them . 
Did he wear a vest ? The mere thought of his boots and the feet they enveloped filled me with horror . 
The frayed cuffs were as black at the edges as were his nails . 
No , I do not . 
It was Count Jean des Barrets , my old college chum . 
I seized him by the hand , so dumfounded that I could find nothing to say . 
I , at length , managed to stammer out And you , how goes it with you ? He responded placidly With me ? Just as I like . 
I wanted to be friendly , and I selected this phrase What are you doing now ? You see what I am doing , he answered , quite resignedly . 
I felt my face getting red . 
I insisted But every day ? Every day is alike to me , was his response , accompanied with a thick puff of tobacco smoke . 
He then tapped on the top of the marble table with a sou , to attract the attention of the waiter , and called out Waiter , two 'bocks . 
A voice in the distance repeated Two 'bocks , instead of four . 
Another voice , more distant still , shouted out Here they are , sir , here they are . 
Des Barrets emptied his glass at a single draught and replaced it on the table , sucking in the drops of beer that had been left on his mustache . 
He next asked What is there new ? I know of nothing new , worth mentioning , really , I stammered But nothing has grown old for me I am a commercial man . 
For my part , I do nothing at all , as you see , never anything . 
When one has not got a sou one can understand why one has to go to work . 
Then sticking his pipe into his mouth , he called out anew Waiter , a 'bock . 
It makes me thirsty to keep calling so . 
I am not accustomed to that sort of thing . 
Yes , I do nothing I let things slide , and I am growing old . 
In dying I shall have nothing to regret . 
If so , I should remember nothing , outside this public house . 
I have no wife , no children , no cares , no sorrows , nothing . 
That is the very best thing that could happen to one . 
He then emptied the glass which had been brought him , passed his tongue over his lips , and resumed his pipe . 
I looked at him stupefied and asked him But you have not always been like that ? Pardon me , sir ever since I left college . 
It is not a proper life to lead , my dear sir it is simply horrible . 
Come , you must indeed have done something , you must have loved something , you must have friends . 
Then about one in the morning , I return to my couch , because the place closes up . 
And it is this latter that embitters me more than anything . 
For the last ten years , I have passed six tenths of my time on this bench , in my corner and the other four tenths in my bed , never changing . 
I talk sometimes with the habitues . 
But on arriving in Paris what did you do at first ? I paid my devoirs to the Cafe de Medicis . 
What next ? Next ? I crossed the water and came here . 
Why did you take even that trouble ? What do you mean ? One cannot remain all one's life in the Latin Quarter . 
The students make too much noise . 
But I do not move about any longer . 
I now began to think that he was making fun of me , and I continued Come now , be frank . 
You have been the victim of some great sorrow despair in love , no doubt ! It is easy to see that you are a man whom misfortune has hit hard . 
What age are you ? I am thirty years of age , but I look to be forty five at least . 
I looked him straight in the face . 
His shrunken figure , badly cared for , gave one the impression that he was an old man . 
On the summit of his cranium , a few long hairs shot straight up from a skin of doubtful cleanness . 
He had enormous eyelashes , a large mustache , and a thick beard . 
Suddenly I had a kind of vision , I know not why the vision of a basin filled with noisome water , the water which should have been applied to that poll . 
I said to him Verily , you look to be more than that age . 
Of a certainty you must have experienced some great disappointment . 
He replied I tell you that I have not . 
I am old because I never take air . 
There is nothing that vitiates the life of a man more than the atmosphere of a cafe . 
I could not believe him . 
You must surely have been married as well ? One could not get as baldheaded as you are without having been much in love . 
He shook his head , sending down his back little hairs from the scalp No , I have always been virtuous . 
And raising his eyes toward the luster , which beat down on our heads , he said If I am baldheaded , it is the fault of the gas . 
It is the enemy of hair . 
You must be thirsty also ? No , thank you . 
But you certainly interest me . 
When did you have your first discouragement ? Your life is not normal , is not natural . 
There is something under it all . 
Yes , and it dates from my infancy . 
I received a heavy blow when I was very young . 
It turned my life into darkness , which will last to the end . 
How did it come about ? You wish to know about it ? Well , then , listen . 
I worshiped my mother I was suspicious of my father but I respected both , accustomed always as I was to see everyone bow before them . 
In the country , they were Monsieur le Comte and Madame la Comtesse and our neighbors , the Tannemares , the Ravelets , the Brennevilles , showed the utmost consideration for them . 
I was then thirteen years old , happy , satisfied with everything , as one is at that age , and full of joy and vivacity . 
I recall the thing as though it were yesterday . 
It was a very windy day . 
The whole line of trees bent under the pressure of the wind , moaned and seemed to utter cries cries dull , yet deep so that the whole forest groaned under the gale . 
Evening had come on , and it was dark in the thickets . 
The agitation of the wind and the branches excited me , made me skip about like an idiot , and howl in imitation of the wolves . 
As soon as I perceived my parents , I crept furtively toward them , under the branches , in order to surprise them , as though I had been a veritable wolf . 
But suddenly seized with fear , I stopped a few paces from them . 
My father , a prey to the most violent passion , cried 'Your mother is a fool moreover , it is not your mother that is the question , it is you . 
I tell you that I want money , and I will make you sign this . 
My mother responded in a firm voice 'I will not sign it . 
It is Jean's fortune , I shall guard it for him and I will not allow you to devour it with strange women , as you have your own heritage . 
Then my father , full of rage , wheeled round and seized his wife by the throat , and began to slap her full in the face with the disengaged hand . 
My mother's hat fell off , her hair became disheveled and fell down her back she essayed to parry the blows , but could not escape from them . 
And my father , like a madman , banged and banged at her . 
My mother rolled over on the ground , covering her face in both her hands . 
Then he turned her over on her back in order to batter her still more , pulling away the hands which were covering her face . 
As for me , my friend , it seemed as though the world had come to an end , that the eternal laws had changed . 
I experienced the overwhelming dread that one has in presence of things supernatural , in presence of irreparable disaster . 
My boyish head whirled round and soared . 
I began to cry with all my might , without knowing why , a prey to terror , to grief , to a dreadful bewilderment . 
My father heard me , turned round , and , on seeing me , made as though he would rush at me . 
I believed that he wanted to kill me , and I fled like a hunted animal , running straight in front of me through the woods . 
I ran perhaps for an hour , perhaps for two , I know not . 
I became cold , I became hungry . 
I dared neither get up , walk , return home , nor save myself , fearing to encounter my father whom I did not wish to see again . 
I should probably have died of misery and of hunger at the foot of a tree if the guard had not discovered me and led me away by force . 
I found my parents wearing their ordinary aspect . 
My mother alone spoke to me 'How you have frightened me , you naughty boy I have been the whole night sleepless . 
I did not answer , but began to weep . 
My father did not utter a single word . 
Eight days later I entered the Lycee . 
Well , my friend , it was all over with me . 
I had witnessed the other side of things , the bad side I have not been able to perceive the good side since that day . 
What things have passed in my mind , what strange phenomena have warped my ideas , I do not know . 
But I no longer have a taste for anything , a wish for anything , a love for anybody , a desire for anything whatever , no ambition , no hope . 
And I can always see my poor mother lying on the ground , in the avenue , while my father was maltreating her . 
My mother died a few years after my father lives still . 
I have not seen him since . 
A waiter brought him his bock , which he swallowed at a gulp . 
But , in taking up his pipe again , trembling as he was , he broke it . 
Then he made a violent gesture Zounds ! This is indeed a grief , a real grief . 
Title given to advocates in France . 
Those who suffer came into his first category , those who love , into the second , and those who are bored , into the third and she belonged to the latter . 
The judges would ask me whether I took the Law Courts for a theater , and intended to make fun of them . 
Taking his chin in his hand , he said However , I will think it over there is sure to be some dark spot that can be made out worse . 
Write to me , and come and see me again . 
He thought of her constantly , during long hours of sleeplessness . 
Her gentle eyes with their magnetic look had a happy , frank expression , and from the mere arrangement of her hair , one could see that she was fair among the fair . 
And so he roamed about the world , tossed to and fro , suffering and hoping he knew not what . 
At last , however , he returned to France , changed , tanned by exposure , sun , and rain , and transformed as if by some witch's philter . 
He altered his handwriting , as he remembered her restless brain , and her many whims . 
She fell into his arms , and they both sobbed with joy and ecstasy . 
Last week Count de Baudemont carried off Marie Anne quietly and coolly , just like one resumes possession of one's house on returning from a journey , and drives out the intruders . 
THE MAD WOMAN I can tell you a terrible story about the Franco Prussian war , Monsieur d'Endolin said to some friends assembled in the smoking room of Baron de Ravot's chateau . 
At the age of seven and twenty she had lost her father , her husband , and her newly born child , all in the space of a month . 
Then a species of calm lassitude succeeded that violent crisis , and she remained motionless , eating next to nothing , and only moving her eyes . 
An old servant remained with her , to give her something to drink , or a little cold meat , from time to time . 
What passed in that despairing mind ? No one ever knew , for she did not speak at all now . 
The war broke out , and in the beginning of December the Germans came to Cormeil . 
I can remember it as if it were but yesterday . 
They defiled past interminably , with that peculiar motion of a puppet on wires , which belongs to them . 
Then the officers billeted their men on the inhabitants , and I had seventeen of them . 
My neighbor , the crazy woman , had a dozen , one of whom was the Commandant , a regular violent , surly swashbuckler . 
During the first few days , everything went on as usual . 
They asked what her illness was , and were told that she had been in bed for fifteen years , in consequence of terrible grief . 
The Commandant insisted upon her receiving him . 
He was shown into the room and said to her roughly 'I must beg you to get up , Madame , and to come downstairs so that we may all see you . 
But she did not give any signs of having heard him , and remained quite motionless . 
Then he got furious , taking that calm silence for a mark of supreme contempt so he added 'If you do not come downstairs to morrow And then he left the room . 
The next day the terrified old servant wished to dress her , but the mad woman began to scream violently , and resisted with all her might . 
The officer ran upstairs quickly , and the servant threw herself at his feet and cried 'She will not come down , Monsieur , she will not . 
Forgive her , for she is so unhappy . 
The soldier was embarrassed , as in spite of his anger , he did not venture to order his soldiers to drag her out . 
And then the procession went off in the direction of the forest of Imauville in two hours the soldiers came back alone , and nothing more was seen of the mad woman . 
What had they done with her ? Where had they taken her to ? No one knew . 
The snow was falling day and night , and enveloped the plain and the woods in a shroud of frozen foam , and the wolves came and howled at our very doors . 
The thought of that poor lost woman haunted me , and I made several applications to the Prussian authorities in order to obtain some information , and was nearly shot for doing so . 
When spring returned , the army of occupation withdrew , but my neighbor's house remained closed , and the grass grew thick in the garden walks . 
The old servant had died during the winter , and nobody troubled any longer about the occurrence I alone thought about it constantly . 
Well , in the following autumn the woodcock were very plentiful , and as my gout had left me for a time , I dragged myself as far as the forest . 
Immediately the recollection of the mad woman struck me like a blow in the chest . 
And suddenly I understood , I guessed everything . 
Then the wolves had devoured her , and the birds had built their nests with the wool from her torn bed , and I took charge of her bones . 
I only pray that our sons may never see any wars again . 
IN VARIOUS ROLES In the following reminiscences will frequently be mentioned a lady who played a great part in the annals of the police from to . 
We will call her Wanda von Chabert . 
Born in Galicia of German parents , and carefully brought up in every way , when only sixteen she married , from love , a rich and handsome officer of noble birth . 
The young couple , however , lived beyond their means , and when the husband died suddenly , two years after they were married , she was left anything but well off . 
As Wanda had grown accustomed to luxury and amusement , a quiet life in her parents' house did not suit her any longer . 
Even while she was still in mourning for her husband , she allowed a Hungarian magnate to make love to her . 
She went off with him at a venture , and continued the same extravagant life which she had led when her husband was alive , of her own volition . 
At the end of two years , however , her lover left her in a town in North Italy , almost without means . 
She was thinking of going on the stage , when chance provided her with another resource , which enabled her to reassert her position in society . 
She became a secret police agent , and soon was one of their most valuable members . 
She used to change the place of her abode , according to what she had to do . 
In revolutionary circles , she was looked upon as an active member of the great League of Freedom , and diplomatists regarded her as an influential friend of Napoleon III . 
She was told that he was a wealthy Brazilian , and that his name was Don Escovedo . 
At last she was obliged to confess to herself that he was the handsomest man she had ever seen . 
They soon became acquainted , through a Prussian officer whom the Brazilian had asked for an introduction to the beautiful Polish lady for Frau von Chabert was taken for one in Vevey . 
The same evening they went out riding together , the next he was lying at her feet , and on the third she was his . 
For four weeks the lovely Wanda and the Brazilian lived together as if they had been in Paradise , but he could not deceive her searching eyes any longer . 
Her sharp and practiced eye had already discovered in him that indefinable something which makes a man appear a suspicious character . 
The day that she had foreseen soon came the Brazilian's banker unaccountably had omitted to send him any money , and so he borrowed some of her . 
So he is a male courtesan , she said to herself . 
The handsome man soon required money again , and she lent it to him again . 
Then at last he left suddenly and nobody knew where he had gone to only this much , that he had left Vevey as the companion of an old but wealthy Wallachian lady . 
So this time clever Wanda was duped . 
A year afterward she met the Brazilian unexpectedly at Lucca , with an insipid looking , light haired , thin Englishwoman on his arm . 
Wanda stood still and looked at him steadily , but he glanced at her quite indifferently he did not choose to know her again . 
Wanda was satisfied , but she wished to find out who the lady was , in whose company she constantly saw Don Escovedo . 
An Austrian count , who had a loud and silly laugh , said Who has saddled you with that yarn ? The lady is Lady Nitingsdale , and his name is Romanesco . 
Romanesco ? Yes , he is a rich Boyar from Moldavia , where he has extensive estates . 
Evidently his light hair had become too compromising for him . 
The sea water seems to have a very remarkable effect upon your hair , Wanda said to him spitefully , in a whisper . 
Do you think so ? he replied , condescendingly . 
I fancy that at one time your hair was fair . 
You are mistaking me for somebody else , the Brazilian replied , quietly . 
For whom do you take me , pray ? he said with an insolent smile . 
I am Count Dembizki from Valkynia , the former Brazilian said with a bow perhaps you would like to see my passport . 
Well , perhaps And he had the impudence to show her his false passport . 
A year afterward Wanda met Count Dembizki in Baden , near Vienna . 
His hair was still black , but he had a magnificent , full , black beard he had become a Greek prince , and his name was Anastasio Maurokordatos . 
She met him once in one of the side walks in the park , where he could not avoid her . 
That time , however , the Brazilian did not deny his identity on the contrary , he surrendered at discretion , and implored her not to betray him . 
First of all , I must beg you not to gamble . 
You have only to command and we do not know each other in the future I must certainly insist on that , she said maliciously . 
The Exotic Prince had , however , made a conquest of the charming daughter of a wealthy Austrian count , and had cut out an excellent young officer , who was wooing her . 
The latter , in his despair , began to make love to Frau von Chabert , and at last told her he loved her . 
But she only laughed at him . 
You are very cruel , he stammered in confusion . 
Well , supposing I can do it , what shall I be then ? An angel , whom I shall thank on my knees . 
A few days later , the rivals met at a coffee house the Greek prince began to lie and boast , and the Austrian officer gave him the lie direct . 
In consequence , it was arranged that they should fight a duel with pistols next morning in a wood close to Baden . 
What does it mean ? the officer asked , in some surprise . 
It means that this Maurokordatos is a dangerous swindler and adventurer , whom we have just taken into custody . 
He is not a prince ? No a circus rider . 
An hour later , the officer received a letter from the charming Countess , in which she humbly begged for pardon . 
She was the daughter of a country physician who had died some months previously . 
She had come to live in Paris , with her mother , who visited much among her acquaintances , in the hope of making a favorable marriage for her daughter . 
They were poor and honest , quiet and unaffected . 
The young girl was a perfect type of the virtuous woman whom every sensible young man dreams of one day winning for life . 
Her simple beauty had the charm of angelic modesty , and the imperceptible smile which constantly hovered about her lips seemed to be the reflection of a pure and lovely soul . 
Her praises resounded on every side . 
People were never tired of saying Happy the man who wins her love ! He could not find a better wife . 
Now M. Lantin enjoyed a snug little income of , and , thinking he could safely assume the responsibilities of matrimony , proposed to this model young girl and was accepted . 
He was unspeakably happy with her she governed his household so cleverly and economically that they seemed to live in luxury . 
He only felt inclined to blame her for two things her love of the theater , and a taste for false jewelry . 
After a time , M. Lantin begged his wife to get some lady of her acquaintance to accompany her . 
She was at first opposed to such an arrangement but , after much persuasion on his part , she finally consented to the infinite delight of her husband . 
Now , with her love for the theater came also the desire to adorn her person . 
Around her neck she wore strings of false pearls , and on her arms bracelets of imitation gold . 
But she would smile sweetly , and say What can I do ? I am so fond of jewelry . 
It is my only weakness . 
We cannot change our natures . 
M. Lantin would then answer , smilingly You have Bohemian tastes , my dear . 
One evening in winter she attended the opera , and on her return was chilled through and through . 
The next morning she coughed , and eight days later she died of inflammation of the lungs . 
M. Lantin's despair was so great that his hair became white in one month . 
He wept unceasingly his heart was torn with grief , and his mind was haunted by the remembrance , the smile , the voice by every charm of his beautiful , dead wife . 
Time , the healer , did not assuage his grief . 
Everything in his wife's room remained as before her decease and here he was wont to seclude himself daily and think of her who had been his treasure the joy of his existence . 
But life soon became a struggle . 
He incurred some debts and was soon reduced to absolute poverty . 
He cherished in his heart a sort of rancor against the false gems . 
They had always irritated him in the past , and the very sight of them spoiled somewhat the memory of his lost darling . 
To the last days of her life , she had continued to make purchases bringing home new gems almost every evening . 
He put it in his pocket and started out in search of a jeweler's shop . 
He entered the first one he saw feeling a little ashamed to expose his misery , and also to offer such a worthless article for sale . 
Sir , said he to the merchant , I would like to know what this is worth . 
The widower opened his eyes wide and remained gaping , not comprehending the merchant's meaning . 
You say are you sure ? The other replied dryly You can search elsewhere and see if anyone will offer you more . 
I consider it worth fifteen thousand at the most . 
Come back here if you cannot do better . 
M. Lantin , beside himself with astonishment , took up the necklace and left the store . 
He wished time for reflection . 
Once outside , he felt inclined to laugh , and said to himself The fool ! Had I only taken him at his word ! That jeweler cannot distinguish real diamonds from paste . 
A few minutes after , he entered another store in the Rue de la Paix . 
As soon as the proprietor glanced at the necklace , he cried out Ah , parbleu ! I know it well it was bought here . 
M. Lantin was disturbed , and asked How much is it worth ? Well , I sold it for twenty thousand francs . 
I am willing to take it back for eighteen thousand when you inform me , according to our legal formality , how it comes to be in your possession . 
This time M. Lantin was dumfounded . 
He replied But but examine it well . 
Until this moment I was under the impression that it was paste . 
Said the jeweler What is your name , sir ? Lantin I am in the employ of the Minister of the Interior . 
I live at No. Rue des Martyrs . 
The merchant looked through his books , found the entry , and said That necklace was sent to Mme . 
Lantin's address , Rue des Martyrs , July , . 
The two men looked into each other's eyes the widower speechless with astonishment , the jeweler scenting a thief . 
The latter broke the silence by saying Will you leave this necklace here for twenty four hours ? I will give you a receipt . 
Certainly , answered M. Lantin , hastily . 
Then , putting the ticket in his pocket , he left the store . 
He wandered aimlessly through the streets , his mind in a state of dreadful confusion . 
He tried to reason , to understand . 
His wife could not afford to purchase such a costly ornament . 
He recovered his senses in a pharmacy into which the passers by had taken him , and was then taken to his home . 
When he arrived he shut himself up in his room and wept until nightfall . 
Finally , overcome with fatigue , he threw himself on the bed , where he passed an uneasy , restless night . 
The following morning he arose and prepared to go to the office . 
It was hard to work after such a , shock . 
He sent a letter to his employer requesting to be excused . 
Then he remembered that he had to return to the jeweler's . 
He did not like the idea but he could not leave the necklace with that man . 
So he dressed and went out . 
It was a lovely day a clear blue sky smiled on the busy city below , and men of leisure were strolling about with their hands in their pockets . 
Observing them , M. Lantin said to himself The rich , indeed , are happy . 
With money it is possible to forget even the deepest sorrow . 
One can go where one pleases , and in travel find that distraction which is the surest cure for grief . 
Oh ! if I were only rich ! He began to feel hungry , but his pocket was empty . 
He again remembered the necklace . 
Eighteen thousand francs ! Eighteen thousand francs ! What a sum ! He soon arrived in the Rue de la Paix , opposite the jeweler's . 
Eighteen thousand francs ! Twenty times he resolved to go in , but shame kept him back . 
He was hungry , however , very hungry , and had not a cent in his pocket . 
He decided quickly , ran across the street in order not to have time for reflection , and entered the store . 
The proprietor immediately came forward , and politely offered him a chair the clerks glanced at him knowingly . 
Certainly , sir , stammered M. Lantin . 
Will you buy them also ? The merchant bowed Certainly , sir . 
M. Lantin said gravely I will bring them to you . 
An hour later he returned with the gems . 
The jeweler remarked , jokingly There was a person who invested all her earnings in precious stones . 
M. Lantin replied , seriously It is only another way of investing one's money . 
That day he lunched at Voisin's and drank wine worth twenty francs a bottle . 
Suddenly he thought of his employer . 
He drove up to the office , and entered gaily , saying Sir , I have come to resign my position . 
I have just inherited three hundred thousand francs . 
He shook hands with his former colleagues and confided to them some of his projects for the future then he went off to dine at the Cafe Anglais . 
He seated himself beside a gentleman of aristocratic bearing , and during the meal informed the latter confidentially that he had just inherited a fortune of four hundred thousand francs . 
For the first time in his life he was not bored at the theater , and spent the remainder of the night in a gay frolic . 
Six months afterward he married again . 
His second wife was a very virtuous woman , with a violent temper . 
She caused him much sorrow . 
COUNTESS SATAN I. They were discussing dynamite , the social revolution , Nihilism , and even those who cared least about politics had something to say . 
Some were alarmed , others philosophized , and others again tried to smile . 
Bah ! N said , when we are all blown up , we shall see what it is like . 
Perhaps , after all , it may be an amusing sensation , provided one goes high enough . 
But we shall not be blown up at all , G , the optimist , said , interrupting him . 
It is all a romance . 
You are mistaken , my dear fellow , Jules de C replied . 
It is like a romance , but with this confounded Nihilism , everything is the same it would be a mistake to trust to it . 
This is what he told them II I met Countess Nioska W , that strange woman who was usually called Countess Satan , in Naples . 
I immediately attached myself to her out of curiosity , and soon fell in love with her . 
Not that she was beautiful , for she was a Russian with the bad characteristics of the Russian type . 
She was thin and squat at the same time , while her face was sallow and puffy , with high cheek bones and a Cossack's nose . 
But her conversation bewitched everyone . 
She was many sided , learned , a philosopher , scientifically depraved , satanic . 
Perhaps the word is rather pretentious , but it exactly expresses what I want to say , for in other words she loved evil for the sake of evil . 
She rejoiced in other people's vices she liked to sow the seeds of evil , in order to see it flourish . 
And that , too , by fraud on an enormous scale . 
It was not enough for her to corrupt individuals , she only did that to keep her hand in what she wished to do was to corrupt the masses . 
By slightly altering it after her own fashion , she might have used Caligula's famous wish . 
What a temptation to become the lord and master of such a monster ! I allowed myself to be tempted , and undertook the adventure . 
The means came unsought for by me , and the only thing that I had to do was to show myself more perverted and satanic than she was herself . 
And so I played the devil . 
'Yes , I said , 'we writers are the best workmen for doing evil , as our books may be bottles of poison . 
The so called men of action only turn the handle of the mitrailleuse which we have loaded . 
Formulas will destroy the world , and it is we who invent them . 
'That is true , said she , 'and that is what is wanting in Bakounine , I am sorry to say . 
That name was constantly in her mouth . 
So I asked her for details , which she gave me , as she knew the man intimately . 
'After all , she said , with a contemptuous grimace , 'he is only a kind of Garibaldi . 
'You see , she said , 'he is a thorough adventurer , and now all his adventures are over . 
He got married at Tobolsk and became a mere respectable , middle class man . 
And then he has no individual ideas . 
At best , Bakounine would only become an incendiary , and burn down cities . 
It was getting exasperating , and the more so as she resisted me as stoutly as the shyest of innocents could have done . 
At the end of a month of mad Satanism , I saw what her game was . 
Do you know what she intended ? She meant to make me Bakounine's prompter , or , at any rate , that is what she said . 
All this may appear madness to you , but it is , nevertheless , the exact truth . 
In short , one morning she bluntly made the offer 'Become Bakounine's soul , and you shall possess me . 
Of course I accepted , for it was too fantastically strange to refuse . 
He lived in a small , one storied house in Pimlico , with a tiny garden in front , and nothing noticeable about it . 
We were first of all shown into the commonplace parlor of all English homes , and then upstairs . 
The room where the Countess and I were left was small , and very badly furnished . 
It had a square table with writing materials on it , in the center of the room . 
The deity soon appeared , and I saw him in flesh and bone especially in flesh , for he was enormously stout . 
The obesity which is characteristic of nomad races , who are always on horseback or driving , added to his Asiatic look . 
I was astonished , for I had not expected that the majesty of a whole race could be thus revived in a man , and my stupefaction increased after an hour's conversation . 
She had not felt the profoundness of that horrible , philosophy which was hidden under his material activity , nor had she seen the prophet under this hero of the barricades . 
Perhaps he had not thought it advisable to reveal himself to her but he revealed himself to me , and inspired me with terror . 
A prophet ? Oh ! yes . 
He thought himself an Attila , and foresaw the consequences of his revolution it was not only from instinct but also from theory that he urged a nation on to Nihilism . 
The phrase is not his , but Turgenieff's , I believe , but the idea certainly belonged to him . 
He got his programme of agricultural communism from Herzen , and his destructive radicalism from Pougatcheff , but he did not stop there . 
I mean that he went on to evil for the sake of evil . 
It was the dream of a Tartar it was true Nihilism pushed to extreme and practical conclusions . 
It was , in a word , the applied philosophy of chance , the indeterminate end of anarchy . 
His dream did not remain a dream , but began to be realized . 
I never saw Bakounine again , for the Countess's conquest would have been too dearly bought by any attempt to act a comedy with this 'Old Man of the Mountain . 
And besides that , after this visit , poor Countess Satan appeared to me quite silly . 
Her famous Satanism was nothing but the flicker of a spirit lamp , after the general conflagration of which the other had dreamed . 
She had certainly shown herself very silly , when she could not understand that prodigious monster . 
And as she had seduced me only by her intellect and her perversity , I was disgusted as soon as she laid aside that mask . 
I left her without telling her of my intention , and never saw her again , either . 
No doubt they both took me for a spy from the 'Third Section of the Imperial Chancellery . 
I shall die like that it is in the blood . 
I am an old beau , one of the old regime , and the sight of a woman , a pretty woman , stirs me to the tips of my toes . 
There ! And then we are all very much alike in France we remain cavaliers , cavaliers of love and fortune , since God has been abolished , whose bodyguard we really were . 
And even if France were to be wiped off the map , there would always be Frenchmen left . 
When I am in the presence of a woman , of a pretty woman , I feel capable of anything . 
But I am not the only one certainly not the whole French army is like me , that I will swear to . 
I was a captain , a simple captain , at the time , and was in command of a detachment of scouts who were retreating through a district swarming with Prussians . 
I do not know how we managed to escape so far . 
However , we had ten leagues to go during the night , ten leagues through the snow , and upon empty stomachs . 
I thought to myself 'It is all over my poor fellows will never be able to do it . 
It was dark by five o'clock , that wan darkness caused by the snow , and I shook up my men . 
Some of them would not get up they were almost incapable of moving or of standing upright , and their joints were stiff from the cold and want of motion . 
You would have thought that it was the end of things . 
'Come , my lads , let us start . 
And so they set off , but very slowly , like men whose legs were of very little use to them . 
I sent four of them three hundred yards ahead , to scout , and the others followed pellmell , walking at random and without any order . 
I put the strongest in the rear , with orders to quicken the pace of the sluggards with the points of their bayonets in the back . 
Something had alarmed them they had heard voices in front of them , and so I sent six men and a sergeant on ahead , and waited . 
They were escaping from the Prussians , who had occupied their house during the evening , and who had got drunk . 
The father had become alarmed on his daughter's account , and , without even telling their servants , they had made their escape into the darkness . 
I saw immediately that they belonged to the upper classes , and , as I should have done in any case , I invited them to come with us . 
So we started off together , and as the old man knew the road , he acted as our guide . 
It had ceased snowing the stars appeared , and the cold became intense . 
The girl , who was leaning on her father's arm , walked wearily and with jerks , and several times she murmured 'I have no feeling at all in my feet . 
I suffered more than she did , I believe , to see that poor little woman dragging herself like that through the snow . 
But suddenly she stopped , and said 'Father , I am so tired that I cannot go any further . 
The old man wanted to carry her , but he could not even lift her up , and she fell on the ground with a deep sigh . 
We could indistinctly see the trees of a little wood on the left , through the darkness . 
Several men went into it , and soon came back with a bundle of branches twisted into a litter . 
'Who will lend his cloak ? It is for a pretty girl , comrades , Pratique said , and ten cloaks were thrown to him . 
In a moment , the girl was lying , warm and comfortable , among them , and was raised upon six shoulders . 
I placed myself at their head , on the right , and very pleased I was with my charge . 
We started off much more briskly , as if we had been having a drink of wine , and I even heard a few jokes . 
A woman is quite enough to electrify Frenchmen , you see . 
There , in the middle of the plain , some strange object was moving about . 
But presently the wandering shape came near , and I saw a dozen lancers , one behind the other , who were trying to find their way , which they had lost . 
When the smoke had cleared away we saw that the twelve men and nine horses had fallen . 
Three of the animals were galloping away at a furious pace . 
One of them was dragging the body of its rider behind it . 
His foot had caught in the stirrup , and his body rebounded from the ground in a horrible way . 
One of the soldiers behind me gave a harsh laugh , and said 'There are a few more widows now ! Perhaps he was married . 
But as she was cold , she quickly disappeared beneath the cloaks again , and we started off once more . 
We marched on for a long time , and at last the sky began to grow pale . 
The snow became quite clear , luminous , and bright , and a rosy tint appeared in the east . 
Suddenly a voice in the distance cried 'Who goes there ? The whole detachment halted , and I advanced to say who we were . 
I do not know why , except that I thought it a pretty and gallant thing to say . 
It seemed to me as if we had just saved the whole of France , and had done something that other men could not have done , something simple , and really patriotic . 
By Jove ! it would put some spirit into a trooper to have a Madonna like that , a living Madonna , by the colonel's side . 
Once outside the barracks , they struck out to the right through Courbevoie , walking with long rapid strides , as though they were on a march . 
When they were beyond the last of the houses , they slackened pace along the bare , dusty roadway which goes toward Bezons . 
They were both small and thin , and looked quite lost in their coats , which were too big and too long . 
Their sleeves hung down over their hands , and they found their enormous red breeches , which compelled them to waddle , very much in the way . 
Under their stiff , high helmets their faces had little character two poor , sallow Breton faces , simple with an almost animal simplicity , and with gentle and quiet blue eyes . 
They never conversed during these walks , but went straight on , each with the same thought in his head . 
When they arrived under the trees where the roads from Colombes and from Chatou cross , they would take off their heavy helmets and wipe their foreheads . 
They always halted on the Bezons bridge to look at the Seine , and would remain there two or three minutes , bent double , leaning on the parapet . 
Just beyond the Seine they bought their provisions from a sausage merchant , a baker , and a wine seller . 
A piece of blood pudding , four sous' worth of bread , and a liter of petit bleu constituted the provisions , which they carried off in their handkerchiefs . 
After they had left Bezons they traveled slowly and began to talk . 
In front of them a barren plain studded with clumps of trees led to the wood , to the little wood which had seemed to them to resemble the one at Kermarivan . 
They kept on recognizing , as it were , now a corner of a field , a hedge , a bit of moorland , now a crossroad , now a granite cross . 
Then , too , they would always stop beside a certain landmark , a great stone , because it looked something like the cromlech at Locneuven . 
Jean Kerderen carried the provisions . 
From time to time Luc would mention a name , or recall some deed of their childhood in a few brief words , which caused long thoughts . 
By the time that Luc had stripped the slender wand of its bark they reached the corner of the wood where every Sunday they took breakfast . 
Toward noon they began to turn their eyes from time to time in the direction of the village of Bezons , because the girl with the cow was coming . 
She passed by them every Sunday on her way to milk and change the pasture of her cow the only cow in this district which ever went out of the stable to grass . 
It was pastured in a narrow field along the edge of the wood a little farther on . 
They soon perceived the girl , the only human being within vision , and were gladdened by the brilliant reflections thrown off by the tin milk pail under the rays of the sun . 
They never talked about her . 
They were simply glad to see her , without understanding why . 
She was a big strong wench with red hair , burned by the heat of sunny days , a sturdy product of the environs of Paris . 
Once , finding them seated in the same place , she said Good morning . 
You two are always here , aren't you ? Luc le Ganidec , the bolder , stammered Yes , we come to rest . 
But the next Sunday she laughed on seeing them , laughed with a protecting benevolence and a feminine keenness which knew well enough that they were bashful . 
And she asked What are you doing there ? Are you trying to see the grass grow ? Luc was cheered up by this , and smiled likewise Maybe we are . 
That's pretty slow work , said she . 
He answered , still laughing Well , yes , it is . 
But coming back with a milk pail full of milk , she stopped again before them , and said Would you like a little ? It will taste like home . 
With the instinctive feeling that they were of the same peasant race as she , being herself perhaps also far away from home , she had divined and touched the spot . 
Then with some difficulty , she managed to make a little milk run into the neck of the glass bottle in which they carried their wine . 
And Luc drank first , with little swallows , stopping every minute to see whether he had drunk more than his half . 
Then he handed the bottle to Jean . 
She stood upright before them , her hands on her hips , her pail on the ground at her feet , glad at the pleasure which she had given . 
Luc was of the opinion that a little tripe would be the best , but Jean preferred some berlingots because he was fond of sweets . 
His choice fairly made him enthusiastic , and they bought at a grocer's two sous' worth of white and red candies . 
They ate their breakfast more rapidly than usual , being nervous with expectation . 
There she is ! he cried . 
Luc added Yes , there she is . 
While yet some distance off she laughed at seeing them . 
They were afraid to offer her the candies , which were slowly melting away in Jean's pocket . 
At last Luc grew bold , and murmured We have brought you something . 
She demanded , What is it ? Tell me ! Then Jean , blushing up to his ears , managed to get at the little paper cornucopia , and held it out . 
She began to eat the little bonbons , rolling them from one cheek to the other where they made little round lumps . 
The two soldiers , seated before her , gazed at her with emotion and delight . 
Then she went to milk her cow , and once more gave them some milk on coming back . 
They thought of her all the week several times they even spoke of her . 
Soon the girl consented to eat a bit of bread with them and drink a mouthful of wine . 
She often brought them plums in her pocket , for the season of plums had come . 
Her presence sharpened the wits of the two little Breton soldiers , and they chattered like two birds . 
But , one Tuesday , Luc le Ganidec asked for leave a thing which had never happened before and he did not return until ten o'clock at night . 
Jean racked his brains uneasily for a reason for his comrade's going out in this way . 
The next Thursday Luc , having borrowed ten sous from his bedfellow , again asked and obtained permission to leave the barracks for several hours . 
When he set off with Jean on their Sunday walk his manner was very queer , quite restless , and quite changed . 
Kerderen did not understand , but he vaguely suspected something without divining what it could be . 
They did not say a word to one another until they reached their usual halting place , where , from their constant sitting in the same spot the grass was quite worn away . 
They ate their breakfast slowly . 
Neither of them felt hungry . 
Before long the girl appeared . 
As on every Sunday , they watched her coming . 
When she was quite near , Luc rose and made two steps forward . 
She put her milk pail on the ground and kissed him . 
She kissed him passionately , throwing her arms about his neck , without noticing Jean , without remembering that he was there , without even seeing him . 
And he sat there desperate , poor Jean , so desperate that he did not understand , his soul quite overwhelmed , his heart bursting , but not yet understanding himself . 
Then the girl seated herself beside Luc , and they began to chatter . 
Jean did not look at them . 
Luc and the girl went off together to change the position of the cow . 
Jean followed them with his eyes . 
He saw them departing side by side . 
The red breeches of his comrade made a bright spot on the road . 
It was Luc who picked up the mallet and hammered down the stake to which they tied the beast . 
The girl stooped to milk her , while he stroked the cow's sharp spine with a careless hand . 
Then they left the milk pail on the grass , and went deep into the wood . 
Jean saw nothing but the wall of leaves where they had entered and he felt himself so troubled that if he had tried to rise he would certainly have fallen . 
He sat motionless , stupefied by astonishment and suffering , with an agony which was simple but deep . 
He wanted to cry , to run away , to hide himself , never to see anybody any more . 
Soon he saw them issuing from the thicket . 
They returned slowly , holding each other's hands as in the villages do those who are promised . 
It was Luc who carried the pail . 
They kissed one another again before they separated , and the girl went off after having thrown Jean a friendly Good evening and a smile which was full of meaning . 
To day she no longer thought of offering him any milk . 
The two little soldiers sat side by side , motionless as usual , silent and calm , their placid faces betraying nothing of all which troubled their hearts . 
The sun fell on them . 
Sometimes the cow lowed , looking at them from afar . 
At their usual hour they rose to go back . 
Jean carried the empty bottle to return it to the wine seller at Bezons . 
Then they sallied out upon the bridge , and , as they did every Sunday , stopped several minutes in the middle to watch the water flowing . 
Jean leaned , leaned more and more , over the iron railing , as though he saw in the current something which attracted him . 
Luc , his tongue paralyzed with anguish , tried in vain to shout . 
Farther down he saw something stir then the head of his comrade rose to the surface of the river and sank immediately . 
Farther still he again perceived a hand , a single hand , which issued from the stream and then disappear . 
The bargemen who dragged the river did not find the body that day . 
Luc set out alone for the barracks , going at a run , his soul filled with despair . 
I think this is highly suspicious , and I fear that the priests have been maligning me to my father . 
What you have told me , replied the official , is as likely as it is regrettable , but I fail to see how I can interfere in the matter . 
Your father is in full possession of all his mental faculties , and can dispose of all his property exactly as he pleases . 
I think that your protest is premature you must wait until his will can legally take effect , and then you can invoke the aid of justice . 
I am sorry to say that just now I can do nothing for you . 
I think you will be able to , the young man replied for I believe that a very clever piece of deceit is being carried on . 
How ? Please explain yourself more clearly . 
Now I do not believe in ghosts . 
Neither do I , the police director replied , but I cannot well do anything on such grounds , having nothing but superstitions to go upon . 
You know how the Church rules all our affairs since the Concordat with Rome , and if I investigate this matter and obtain no results , I am risking my post . 
It would be very different if you could adduce any proofs for your suspicions . 
About a month passed , without the young Latitudinarian being heard of . 
The police director asked for further information . 
I have obtained a number of important clues , said the young man . 
In the first place , my father confessed to me that my mother did not appear to him in our house , but in the churchyard where she is buried . 
My mother was consumptive for many years , and a few weeks before her death she went to the village of S , where she died and was buried . 
Each time he was remarkably uneasy and low spirited after his return , and had three masses said for my dead mother . 
But only very young men act without any prospects of success , because they are carried away by their feelings . 
When you came to me the first time , I was obliged to refuse your request for assistance , but to day your request is just and reasonable . 
It is now eight o'clock I shall expect you in two hours' time , here in my office . 
At present , all you have to do is to hold your tongue everything else is my affair . 
As soon as it was dark , four men got into a closed carriage in the yard of the police office , and were driven in the direction of the village of S . 
Their carriage , however , did not enter the village , but stopped at the edge of a small wood in the immediate neighborhood . 
Here all four alighted the police director , accompanied by the young Latitudinarian , a police sergeant , and an ordinary policeman , the latter however , dressed in plain clothes . 
The first thing for us to do is to examine the locality carefully , said the police director . 
It is eleven o'clock and the exorcisers of ghosts will not arrive before midnight , so we have time to look round us , and to lay our plans . 
The four men went to the churchyard , which lay at the end of the village , near the little wood . 
Everything was as still as death , and not a soul was to be seen . 
Where is your mother's grave ? the police director asked . 
As there were only a few stars visible , it was not easy to find it , but at last they managed it , and the police director surveyed the neighborhood of it . 
The position is not a very favorable one for us , he said at last there is nothing here , not even a shrub , behind which we could hide . 
The plans were very quickly settled . 
Suddenly , the key turned in the lock . 
They barely had time to conceal themselves behind the altar , before two men came in , one of whom was carrying a dark lantern . 
He lit the tapers , which were standing on the altar , and began to say a Requiem Mass while the old man kneeled on the altar steps and served him . 
They were now looking straight at his mother's grave . 
Then he dipped the holy water sprinkler three times into the holy water basin , and sprinkled the grave three times . 
Who art thou ? the Jesuit asked solemnly , while the old man began to cry . 
When I was alive , I was called Anna Maria B , replied the ghost in a hollow voice . 
Will you answer all my questions ? the priest continued . 
As far as I can . 
When ? As soon as that blasphemer , my son , has been punished . 
Has that not already happened ? Has not your husband disinherited his lost son , and in his place made the Church his heir ? That is not enough . 
What must he do besides ? He must deposit his will with the Judicial Authorities , as his last will and testament , and drive the reprobate out of his house . 
A shrill whistle was heard , and then another , and the police director laid his hand on the shoulder of the exorciser with the remark You are in custody . 
Meanwhile , the police sergeant and the policeman , who had come into the churchyard , had caught the ghost , and dragged it forward . 
When the case was heard , it was proved that the mask had been very skillfully made from a portrait of the deceased woman . 
It is needless to say that Father X was very comfortable during his imprisonment in a monastery , in a part of the country which abounded with game and trout . 
I am going to tell you our story , for love only has one , which is always the same . 
I met her and loved her that is all . 
How ? I do not know I no longer know anything . 
What happened I do not remember now , but doctors came , wrote , and went away . 
Medicines were brought , and some women made her drink them . 
Her hands were hot , her forehead was burning , and her eyes bright and sad . 
When I spoke to her , she answered me , but I do not remember what we said . 
I have forgotten everything , everything , everything ! She died , and I very well remember her slight , feeble sigh . 
The nurse said 'Ah ! and I understood , I understood ! I knew nothing more , nothing . 
I saw a priest , who said 'Your mistress ? and it seemed to me as if he were insulting her . 
As she was dead , nobody had the right to say that any longer , and I turned him out . 
Another came who was very kind and tender , and I shed tears when he spoke to me about her . 
Oh ! God , God ! She was buried ! Buried ! She ! In that hole ! Some people came female friends . 
I made my escape and ran away . 
I ran , and then walked through the streets , went home , and the next day started on a journey . 
I stopped short in front of that looking glass in which she had so often been reflected so often , so often , that it must have retained her reflection . 
I felt as if I loved that glass . 
I touched it it was cold . 
I found her simple grave , a white marble cross , with these few words 'She loved , was loved , and died . 
She is there , below , decayed ! How horrible ! I sobbed with my forehead on the ground , and I stopped there for a long time , a long time . 
Then I saw that it was getting dark , and a strange , mad wish , the wish of a despairing lover , seized me . 
I wished to pass the night , the last night , in weeping on her grave . 
But I should be seen and driven out . 
How was I to manage ? I was cunning , and got up and began to roam about in that city of the dead . 
How small this city is , in comparison with the other , the city in which we live . 
And yet , how much more numerous the dead are than the living . 
It is full of untended roses , of strong and dark cypress trees , a sad and beautiful garden , nourished on human flesh . 
I was alone , perfectly alone . 
So I crouched in a green tree and hid myself there completely amid the thick and somber branches . 
I waited , clinging to the stem , like a shipwrecked man does to a plank . 
When it was quite dark , I left my refuge and began to walk softly , slowly , inaudibly , through that ground full of dead people . 
I wandered about for a long time , but could not find her tomb again . 
What a night ! What a night ! I could not find her again ! There was no moon . 
What a night ! I was frightened , horribly frightened in these narrow paths , between two rows of graves . 
I could hear my heart beat ! And I heard something else as well . 
What ? A confused , nameless noise . 
Suddenly , it seemed to me that the slab of marble on which I was sitting , was moving . 
Certainly it was moving , as if it were being raised . 
With a bound , I sprang on to the neighboring tomb , and I saw , yes , I distinctly saw the stone which I had just quitted rise upright . 
Then the dead person appeared , a naked skeleton , pushing the stone back with its bent back . 
I saw it quite clearly , although the night was so dark . 
On the cross I could read 'Here lies Jacques Olivant , who died at the age of fifty one . 
He loved his family , was kind and honorable , and died in the grace of the Lord . 
The dead man also read what was inscribed on his tombstone then he picked up a stone off the path , a little , pointed stone and began to scrape the letters carefully . 
He slowly effaced them , and with the hollows of his eyes he looked at the places where they had been engraved . 
When he had finished writing , the dead man stood motionless , looking at his work . 
I now saw 'Having gone out in the rain one day , in order to deceive her lover , she caught cold and died . 
It appears that they found me at daybreak , lying on the grave unconscious . 
THE DIARY OF A MADMAN He was dead the head of a high tribunal , the upright magistrate , whose irreproachable life was a proverb in all the courts of France . 
He had passed his life in pursuing crime and in protecting the weak . 
Swindlers and murderers had no more redoubtable enemy , for he seemed to read in the recesses of their souls their most secret thoughts . 
He was dead , now , at the age of eighty two , honored by the homage and followed by the regrets of a whole people . 
Soldiers in red breeches had escorted him to the tomb , and men in white cravats had shed on his grave tears that seemed to be real . 
But listen to the strange paper found by the dismayed notary in the desk where the judge had kept filed the records of great criminals ! It was entitled WHY ? June , . 
I have just left court . 
I have condemned Blondel to death ! Now , why did this man kill his five children ? Frequently one meets with people to whom killing is a pleasure . 
To think that there is a being who lives , who walks , who runs . 
A being ? What is a being ? An animated thing which bears in it the principle of motion , and a will ruling that principle . 
It clings to nothing , this thing . 
Its feet are independent of the ground . 
It is a grain of life that moves on the earth , and this grain of life , coming I know not whence , one can destroy at one's will . 
It perishes it is finished . 
Why , then , is it a crime to kill ? Yes , why ? On the contrary , it is the law of nature . 
Every being has the mission to kill he kills to live , and he lives to kill . 
The beast kills without ceasing , all day , every instant of its existence . 
But this does not suffice for the irresistible need of massacre that is in us . 
It is not enough to kill beasts we must kill man too . 
Long ago this need was satisfied by human sacrifice . 
Now , the necessity of living in society has made murder a crime . 
We condemn and punish the assassin ! But as we cannot live without yielding to this natural and imperious instinct of death , we relieve ourselves from time to time , by wars . 
Then a whole nation slaughters another nation . 
And do we despise those picked out to accomplish these butcheries of men ? No , they are loaded with honors . 
They are clad in gold and in resplendent stuffs they wear plumes on their heads and ornaments on their breasts and they are given crosses , rewards , titles of every kind . 
For to kill is the great law put by nature in the heart of existence ! There is nothing more beautiful and honorable than killing ! June . 
To kill is the law , because Nature loves eternal youth . 
She seems to cry in all her unconscious acts Quick ! quick ! quick ! The more she destroys , the more she renews herself . 
Who would ever know ? Who would ever suspect me , especially if I should choose a being I had no interest in doing away with ? August . 
I could resist no longer . 
I have killed a little creature as an experiment , as a beginning . 
Jean , my servant , had a goldfinch in a cage hung in the office window . 
I sent him on an errand , and I took the little bird in my hand , in my hand where I felt its heart beat . 
I went up to my room . 
From time to time I squeezed it tighter its heart beat faster it was atrocious and delicious . 
I was nearly choking it . 
But I could not see the blood . 
Then I took scissors , short nail scissors , and I cut its throat in three strokes , quite gently . 
And then I did as assassins do real ones . 
I washed the scissors and washed my hands . 
I sprinkled water , and took the body , the corpse , to the garden to hide it . 
I buried it under a strawberry plant . 
It will never be found . 
Every day I can eat a strawberry from that plant . 
How one can enjoy life , when one knows how ! My servant cried he thought his bird flown . 
How could he suspect me ? Ah ! August . 
I must kill a man ! I must ! August . 
But what a little thing ! I had gone for a walk in the forest of Vernes . 
I was thinking of nothing , literally nothing . 
See ! a child on the road , a little child eating a slice of bread and butter . 
He stops to see me pass and says , Good day , Mr. President . 
And the thought enters my head Shall I kill him ? I answer You are alone , my boy ? Yes , sir . 
All alone in the wood ? Yes , sir . 
The wish to kill him intoxicated me like wine . 
I approached him quite softly , persuaded that he was going to run away . 
And suddenly I seized him by the throat . 
He held my wrists in his little hands , and his body writhed like a feather on the fire . 
Then he moved no more . 
I threw the body in the ditch , then some weeds on top of it . 
I returned home and dined well . 
What a little thing it was ! In the evening I was very gay , light , rejuvenated , and passed the evening at the Prefect's . 
But I have not seen blood ! I am not tranquil . 
The body has been discovered . 
They are hunting for the assassin . 
Two tramps have been arrested . 
The parents have been to see me . 
They wept ! Ah ! October . 
Some strolling vagabond must have done the deed . 
Ah ! If I had seen the blood flow it seems to me I should be tranquil now ! October . 
I was walking by the river , after breakfast . 
And I saw , under a willow , a fisherman asleep . 
A spade , as if expressly put there for me , was standing in a potato field near by . 
I returned I raised it like a club , and with one blow of the edge I cleft the fisherman's head . 
Oh ! he bled , this one ! rose colored blood . 
It flowed into the water quite gently . 
And I went away with a grave step . 
If I had been seen ! Ah ! I should have made an excellent assassin . 
The affair of the fisherman makes a great noise . 
His nephew , who fished with him , is charged with the murder . 
The examining magistrate affirms that the nephew is guilty . 
Everybody in town believes it . 
Ah ! ah ! October . 
The nephew defends himself badly . 
He had gone to the village to buy bread and cheese , he declares . 
He swears that his uncle had been killed in his absence ! Who would believe him ? October . 
The nephew has all but confessed , so much have they made him lose his head ! Ah ! Justice ! November . 
There are overwheming proofs against the nephew , who was his uncle's heir . 
I shall preside at the sessions . 
They guillotined him this morning . 
It would take such a little thing to let myself be caught . 
The manuscript contained more pages , but told of no new crime . 
Alienist physicians to whom the awful story has been submitted declare that there are in the world many unknown madmen as adroit and as terrible as this monstrous lunatic . 
She had caught me , just as a birdcatcher on a frosty morning catches an imprudent wren on a limed twig in fact , she might have done whatever she liked with me . 
This is how the enchantment , which was apparently so infrangible , was broken . 
On the first night of a play , I was sitting in the stalls close to Lucy , whose mother had accompanied her , as usual . 
They occupied the front of a box , side by side . 
From some unsurmountable attraction , I never ceased looking at the woman whom I loved with all the force of my being . 
I feasted my eyes on her beauty , I saw nobody except her in the theater , and did not listen to the piece that was being performed on the stage . 
Suddenly , however , I felt as if I had received a blow from a dagger in my heart , and I had an insane hallucination . 
Lucy had moved , and her pretty head was in profile , in the same attitude and with the same lines as her mother . 
I saw Lucy growing older and older , striving against those accumulating years which bring wrinkles in the face , produce a double chin and crow's feet , and spoil the mouth . 
THEY ALMOST LOOKED LIKE TWINS . 
I suffered so , that I thought I should go mad . 
I had a prescience of the future . 
I loved her , and I should love her more and more every day , that little sorceress who had so despotically and so quickly conquered me . 
My friends would leer at her with laughter in their eyes , and with pity in their hearts for the man who was accompanying those remains . 
And so , as soon as the curtain had fallen , without saying good day or good evening , I had myself driven to the Moulin Rouge . 
Monsieur Dufour had borrowed the milkman's tilted cart , and drove himself . 
In the distance they could see the terrace of Saint Germain , and opposite to them , at the end of a low chain of hills , the new fort of Cormeilles . 
Afar a very long way off , beyond the plains and villages one could see the somber green of the forests . 
At last , however , they crossed the Seine a second time . 
At last she made up her mind , and said Yes , this will do and , besides , there is a view . 
So they drove into a large yard studded with trees , behind the inn , which was only separated from the river by the towing path , and got out . 
The husband sprang out first , and held out his arms for his wife . 
As the step was very high , Madame Dufour , in order to reach him , had to show the lower part of her limbs , whose former slenderness had disappeared in fat . 
She shook the dust out of the silk dress , and then looked round , to see in what sort of a place she was . 
She was a stout woman , of about thirty six , full blown and delightful to look at . 
She could hardly breathe , as she was laced too tightly , which forced the heaving mass of her superabundant bosom up to her double chin . 
Next , the girl put her hand on to her father's shoulder , and jumped lightly down . 
The youth with the yellow hair had got down by stepping on the wheel , and he helped Monsieur Dufour to get the grandmother out . 
Then they unharnessed the horse , which they tied up to a tree , and the carriage fell back , with both shafts in the air . 
The man and boy took off their coats , washed their hands in a pail of water , and then joined the ladies , who had already taken possession of the swings . 
Mademoiselle Dufour was trying to swing herself standing up , but she could not succeed in getting a start . 
She was tall , had a small waist and large hips , with a dark skin , very large eyes , and very black hair . 
Her dress clearly marked the outlines of her firm , full figure , which was accentuated by the motion of her hips as she tried to swing herself higher . 
Her arms were stretched over her head to hold the rope , so that her bosom rose at every movement she made . 
She clutched the two ropes , and held her legs out straight , so as not to touch the ground . 
When a servant girl came out , they ordered lunch . 
Some fried fish , a stewed rabbit , salad , and dessert , Madame Dufour said , with an important air . 
Bring two quarts of beer and a bottle of claret , her husband said . 
We will have lunch on the grass , the girl added . 
The whole family looked at them with great respect . 
They are indeed two swell boats , Monsieur Dufour repeated gravely , and he examined them closely , commenting on them like a connoisseur . 
He had beaten more than one Englishman formerly at the Joinville regattas . 
He grew quite excited at last , and offered to make a bet that in a boat like that he could row six miles an hour , without exerting himself . 
Lunch is ready , said the waitress , appearing at the entrance to the boathouse . 
They all hurried off , but two young men were already lunching at the best place , which Madame Dufour had chosen in her mind as her seat . 
No doubt they were the owners of the skiffs , for they were dressed in boating costume . 
They exchanged a rapid smile when they saw the mother , and then a look on seeing the daughter . 
Let us give up our place , one of them said it will make us acquainted with them . 
The other got up immediately , and holding his black and red boating cap in his hand , he politely offered the ladies the only shady place in the garden . 
With many excuses they accepted , and so that it might be more rural , they sat on the grass , without either tables or chairs . 
The two young men took their plates , knives , forks , etc . 
, to a table a little way off , and began to eat again . 
Their bare arms , which they showed continually , rather embarrassed the young girl , who even pretended to turn her head aside , and not to see them . 
But Madame Dufour , who was rather bolder , tempted by feminine curiosity , looked at them every moment , and no doubt compared them with the secret unsightliness of her husband . 
It is lovely weather , Monsieur , the stout lady said to one of the boating men . 
She wished to be friendly , because they had given up their place . 
Oh ! That must be very nice ? Certainly it is , Madame . 
The girl raised her eyes and looked at the oarsman with emotion , and Monsieur Dufour spoke for the first time . 
It is indeed a happy life , he said . 
Ah ! You look very strong , the husband said and he did not talk any more of the time when he used to beat the English . 
Madame got angry , and sent for some water to wash the spots . 
Meanwhile it had grown unbearably hot , the sparkling river looked like a blaze of fire and the fumes of the wine were getting into their heads . 
Monsieur Dufour , who had a violent hiccough , had unbuttoned his waistcoat and the top of his trousers , while his wife , who felt choking , was gradually unfastening her dress . 
As for the girl , she showed nothing except a peculiar brightness in her eyes , while the brown skin on the cheeks became more rosy . 
The coffee finished them off they spoke of singing , and each of them sang , or repeated a couplet , which the others repeated enthusiastically . 
Meanwhile , the two boating men had got their skiffs into the water . 
They came back , and politely asked the ladies whether they would like a row . 
Would you like one , Monsieur Dufour ? his wife exclaimed . 
Please come ! He merely gave her a drunken look , without understanding what she said . 
One of the boating men made a martyr of himself , and took the mother . 
Let us go to the little wood on the Ile aux Anglais ! he called out , as he rowed off . 
The other skiff went slower , for the rower was looking at his companion so intently , that he thought of nothing else . 
His emotion paralyzed his strength , while the girl , who was sitting on the steerer's seat , gave herself up to the enjoyment of being on the water . 
She felt disinclined to think , felt a lassitude in her limbs a complete self relaxation , as if she were intoxicated . 
She had become very flushed , and breathed pantingly . 
The effect of the wine , increased by the extreme heat , made all the trees on the bank seem to bow , as she passed . 
Their inability to speak increased their emotion , and they looked about them . 
At last he made an effort and asked her name , Henriette , she said . 
Why ! My name is Henri , he replied . 
The sound of their voices calmed them , and they looked at the banks . 
The other skiff had gone ahead of them , and seemed to be waiting for them . 
The rower called out We will meet you in the wood we are going as far as Robinson's , because Madame Dufour is thirsty . 
Then he bent over his oars again and rowed off so quickly that he was soon out of sight . 
A well known restaurant on the banks of the Seine , much frequented by the bourgeoisie . 
What is that noise ? she asked . 
It was the noise of the weir , which cut the river in two , at the island . 
He was explaining it to her , when above the noise of the waterfall they heard the song of a bird , which seemed a long way off . 
Listen ! he said the nightingales are singing during the day , so the females must be sitting . 
A nightingale ! She had never heard one before , and the idea of listening to one roused visions of poetic tenderness in her heart . 
, Scene V. She wanted to hear a nightingale . 
We must not make a noise , her companion said , and then we can go into the wood , and sit down close to it . 
The skiff seemed to glide . 
They saw the trees on the island , the banks of which were so low that they could look into the depths of the thickets . 
They stopped , he made the boat fast , Henriette took hold of Henri's arm , and they went beneath the trees . 
Just above their heads , perched in one of the trees which hid them , the bird was still singing . 
They did not speak for fear of frightening the bird away . 
They were sitting close together , and slowly Henri's arm stole round the girl's waist and squeezed it gently . 
She was listening to the bird in ecstasy . 
She felt an infinite longing for happiness , for some sudden demonstration of tenderness , for a revelation of divine poesy . 
She felt such a softening at her heart , and such a relaxation of her nerves , that she began to cry , without knowing why . 
The young man was now straining her close to him , and she did not remove his arm she did not think of it . 
Suddenly the nightingale stopped , and a voice called out in the distance Henriette ! Do not reply , he said in a low voice , you will drive the bird away . 
But she had no idea of doing so , and they remained in the same position for some time . 
Madame Dufour had sat down somewhere or other , for from time to time they heard the stout lady break out into little bursts of laughter . 
The girl was still crying she was filled with strange sensations . 
Henri's head was on her shoulder , and suddenly he kissed her on the lips . 
She was surprised and angry , and , to avoid him , she stood up . 
They were both very pale when they quitted their grassy retreat . 
The blue sky looked dull to them , the ardent sun was clouded over to their eyes , they perceived not the solitude and the silence . 
Madame Dufour took his arm , and they returned to the boats . 
Henri went on first , still without speaking , by the girl's side , and at last they got back to Bezons . 
The young men shook hands with them , and the Dufour family drove off . 
Good bye , until we meet again ! the oarsmen cried , and the answers they got were a sigh and a tear . 
Two months later , as Henri was going along the Rue des Martyrs , he saw Dufour , Ironmonger , over a door . 
So he went in , and saw the stout lady sitting at the counter . 
They recognized each other immediately , and after an interchange of polite greetings , he inquired after them all . 
And how is Mademoiselle Henriette ? he inquired , specially . 
Very well , thank you she is married . 
Ah ! Mastering his feelings , he added To whom was she married ? To that young man who went with us , you know he has joined us in business . 
I remember him , perfectly . 
He was going out , feeling unhappy , though scarcely knowing why , when Madame called him back . 
And how is your friend ? she asked , rather shyly . 
He is very well , thank you . 
Please give him our compliments , and beg him to come and call when he is in the neighborhood . 
She then added Tell him it will give me great pleasure . 
I will be sure to do so . 
Adieu ! I will not say that come again , very soon . 
She grew so pale when she saw Henri , that at first he thought she was going to faint then , however , they began to talk quite naturally . 
But when he told her that he was very fond of that spot , and went there very often on Sundays , she looked into his eyes for a long time . 
I , too , often think of it , she replied . 
Come , my dear , her husband said , with a yawn I think it is time for us to be going . 
