The Project Gutenberg Etext of Burroughs' The Beasts of Tarzan The Beasts of Tarzan by Edgar Rice Burroughs To Joan Burroughs CONTENTS CHAPTER PAGE Kidnapped . 
In the Darkness of the Night . 
On the Deck of the Kincaid . 
The Last of the Kincaid . 
The Law of the Jungle . 
Chapter Kidnapped The entire affair is shrouded in mystery , said D'Arnot . 
I have it on the best of authority that neither the police nor the special agents of the general staff have the faintest conception of how it was accomplished . 
All they know , all that anyone knows , is that Nikolas Rokoff has escaped . 
It is not that I fear for myself , Paul , he said at last . 
Many times in the past have I thwarted Rokoff's designs upon my life but now there are others to consider . 
I must go back to them at once , and remain with them until Rokoff is recaptured or dead . 
As these two talked in Paris , two other men were talking together in a little cottage upon the outskirts of London . 
Both were dark , sinister looking men . 
One was bearded , but the other , whose face wore the pallor of long confinement within doors , had but a few days' growth of black beard upon his face . 
It was he who was speaking . 
You must needs shave off that beard of yours , Alexis , he said to his companion . 
With it he would recognize you on the instant . 
There should be both profit and pleasure as well as other good things to reward our efforts , my dear Alexis . 
And now good bye , and good luck ! Three hours later a messenger mounted the steps to the apartment of Lieutenant D'Arnot . 
A telegram for Lord Greystoke , he said to the servant who answered his summons . 
Is he here ? The man answered in the affirmative , and , signing for the message , carried it within to Tarzan , who was already preparing to depart for London . 
Tarzan tore open the envelope , and as he read his face went white . 
Read it , Paul , he said , handing the slip of paper to D'Arnot . 
The Frenchman took the telegram and read Jack stolen from the garden through complicity of new servant . 
Quickly Jane Porter Clayton narrated all that she had been able to learn of the theft of the boy . 
The baby's nurse had been wheeling him in the sunshine on the walk before the house when a closed taxicab drew up at the corner of the street . 
Just before she reached the vehicle , Carl leaped in beside his confederate , slamming the door behind him . 
Her screams had attracted servants and members of the families from residences near by , as well as from the Greystoke home . 
Lady Greystoke had witnessed the girl's brave battle , and had herself tried to reach the rapidly passing vehicle , but had been too late . 
As Tarzan and his wife stood planning the wisest course to pursue , the telephone bell rang in the library at their right . 
Tarzan quickly answered the call in person . 
Lord Greystoke ? asked a man's voice at the other end of the line . 
Your son has been stolen , continued the voice , and I alone may help you to recover him . 
I am conversant with the plot of those who took him . 
What do you say ? If you lead me to where my son is hidden , replied the ape man , you need fear nothing from me . 
Good , replied the other . 
But you must come alone to meet me , for it is enough that I must trust you . 
I cannot take the chance of permitting others to learn my identity . 
Where and when may I meet you ? asked Tarzan . 
The other gave the name and location of a public house on the water front at Dover a place frequented by sailors . 
Come , he concluded , about ten o'clock tonight . 
It would do no good to arrive earlier . 
Your son will be safe enough in the meantime , and I can then lead you secretly to where he is hidden . 
But be sure to come alone , and under no circumstances notify Scotland Yard , for I know you well and shall be watching for you . 
Without more words the man rang off . 
Tarzan repeated the gist of the conversation to his wife . 
Her mother heart ached , bereft of its firstborn . 
Her mind was in an anguish of hopes and fears . 
Or it might be that it had been simply a bait to lure Tarzan into the hands of the implacable Rokoff . 
With the lodgment of this thought she stopped in wide eyed terror . 
Instantly it became a conviction . 
She glanced at the great clock ticking the minutes in the corner of the library . 
It was too late to catch the Dover train that Tarzan was to take . 
There was another , later , however , that would bring her to the Channel port in time to reach the address the stranger had given her husband before the appointed hour . 
Summoning her maid and chauffeur , she issued instructions rapidly . 
Ten minutes later she was being whisked through the crowded streets toward the railway station . 
It was nine forty five that night that Tarzan entered the squalid pub on the water front in Dover . 
As he passed into the evil smelling room a muffled figure brushed past him toward the street . 
Come , my lord ! whispered the stranger . 
The ape man wheeled about and followed the other into the ill lit alley , which custom had dignified with the title of thoroughfare . 
Once outside , the fellow led the way into the darkness , nearer a wharf , where high piled bales , boxes , and casks cast dense shadows . 
Where is the boy ? asked Greystoke . 
On that small steamer whose lights you can just see yonder , replied the other . 
In the gloom Tarzan was trying to peer into the features of his companion , but he did not recognize the man as one whom he had ever before seen . 
Had he guessed that his guide was Alexis Paulvitch he would have realized that naught but treachery lay in the man's heart , and that danger lurked in the path of every move . 
He is unguarded now , continued the Russian . 
We can go aboard , get the child , and return without the slightest fear . 
Let's be about it , then , he said . 
His guide led him to a small boat moored alongside the wharf . 
The two men entered , and Paulvitch pulled rapidly toward the steamer . 
The black smoke issuing from her funnel did not at the time make any suggestion to Tarzan's mind . 
All his thoughts were occupied with the hope that in a few moments he would again have his little son in his arms . 
At the steamer's side they found a monkey ladder dangling close above them , and up this the two men crept stealthily . 
Once on deck they hastened aft to where the Russian pointed to a hatch . 
The boy is hidden there , he said . 
You had better go down after him , as there is less chance that he will cry in fright than should he find himself in the arms of a stranger . 
I will stand on guard here . 
So anxious was Tarzan to rescue the child that he gave not the slightest thought to the strangeness of all the conditions surrounding the Kincaid . 
With the thought that in another instant he would fold that precious little bundle of humanity in his arms , the ape man swung down into the darkness below . 
Scarcely had he released his hold upon the edge of the hatch than the heavy covering fell clattering above him . 
Instantly he knew that he was the victim of a plot , and that far from rescuing his son he had himself fallen into the hands of his enemies . 
Though he immediately endeavoured to reach the hatch and lift the cover , he was unable to do so . 
It was evident that the room had been prepared for the very purpose of serving as a cell for himself . 
There was nothing in the compartment , and no other occupant . 
If the child was on board the Kincaid he was confined elsewhere . 
For over twenty years , from infancy to manhood , the ape man had roamed his savage jungle haunts without human companionship of any nature . 
He had learned at the most impressionable period of his life to take his pleasures and his sorrows as the beasts take theirs . 
To this end he examined his prison carefully , tested the heavy planking that formed its walls , and measured the distance of the hatch above him . 
And while he was thus occupied there came suddenly to him the vibration of machinery and the throbbing of the propeller . 
Clear and shrill from the deck above him rang the scream of a frightened woman . 
Here she paused and looked about , and then as though satisfied that she had at last reached the place she sought , she pushed bravely into the interior of the vile den . 
A score of half drunken sailors and wharf rats looked up at the unaccustomed sight of a richly gowned woman in their midst . 
Rapidly she approached the slovenly barmaid who stared half in envy , half in hate , at her more fortunate sister . 
Show me the direction they went , cried the woman , slipping a coin into the man's hand . 
There they be , whispered the man . 
Ten pounds if you will find a boat and row me to that steamer , cried the woman . 
Quick , then , he replied , for we gotta go it if we're goin' to catch the Kincaid afore she sails . 
She's had steam up for three hours an' jest been a waitin' fer that one passenger . 
I was a talkin' to one of her crew 'arf an hour ago . 
The two were soon scudding over the water . 
At the steamer's side the man demanded his pay and , without waiting to count out the exact amount , the woman thrust a handful of bank notes into his outstretched hand . 
A single glance at them convinced the fellow that he had been more than well paid . 
Then he assisted her up the ladder , holding his skiff close to the ship's side against the chance that this profitable passenger might wish to be taken ashore later . 
As he turned to row back to shore he heard a woman's shriek from the ship's deck . 
That's wot I calls rotten luck , he soliloquized . 
I might jest as well of 'ad the whole bloomin' wad . 
When Jane Clayton climbed to the deck of the Kincaid she found the ship apparently deserted . 
Quickly she hastened to the cabin , which was half above and half below deck . 
She passed the full length of the main room , and then retracing her steps stopped before each door to listen , furtively trying each latch . 
All was silence , utter silence there , in which the throbbing of her own frightened heart seemed to her overwrought imagination to fill the ship with its thunderous alarm . 
One by one the doors opened before her touch , only to reveal empty interiors . 
In her absorption she did not note the sudden activity upon the vessel , the purring of the engines , the throbbing of the propeller . 
The sudden shock of fright which the unexpected attack had upon her drew a single piercing scream from her throat then the man clapped a hand roughly over the mouth . 
Not until we are farther from land , my dear , he said . 
Then you may yell your pretty head off . 
Lady Greystoke turned to look into the leering , bearded face so close to hers . 
The man relaxed the pressure of his fingers upon her lips , and with a little moan of terror as she recognized him the girl shrank away from her captor . 
Nikolas Rokoff ! M. Thuran ! she exclaimed . 
Your devoted admirer , replied the Russian , with a low bow . 
My little boy , she said next , ignoring the terms of endearment where is he ? Let me have him . 
How could you be so cruel even as you Nikolas Rokoff cannot be entirely devoid of mercy and compassion ? Tell me where he is . 
But remember that it is your own fault that you are here . 
You came aboard voluntarily , and you may take the consequences . 
I little thought , he added to himself , that any such good luck as this would come to me . 
He went on deck then , locking the cabin door upon his prisoner , and for several days she did not see him . 
During this time her only visitor was an uncouth Swede , the Kincaid's unsavoury cook , who brought her meals to her . 
His name was Sven Anderssen , his one pride being that his patronymic was spelt with a double s . 
The man was tall and raw boned , with a long yellow moustache , an unwholesome complexion , and filthy nails . 
His small , blue , close set eyes never met hers squarely . 
During the days of anguish that followed Jane Clayton's imprisonment , but two questions were uppermost in her mind the whereabouts of her husband and her son . 
Tarzan , on his part , lay in the darkness of his cell , ignorant of the fact that his wife was a prisoner in the cabin almost above his head . 
The same Swede that served Jane brought his meals to him , but , though on several occasions Tarzan had tried to draw the man into conversation , he had been unsuccessful . 
So after several attempts Tarzan gave it up . 
For weeks that seemed months to the two prisoners the little steamer forged on they knew not where . 
Once the Kincaid stopped to coal , only immediately to take up the seemingly interminable voyage . 
Rokoff had visited Jane Clayton but once since he had locked her in the tiny cabin . 
He had come gaunt and hollow eyed from a long siege of sea sickness . 
The object of his visit was to obtain from her her personal cheque for a large sum in return for a guarantee of her personal safety and return to England . 
I would not trust you , she replied . 
You would not do it ! cried the girl . 
The following day the hatch was removed from Tarzan's cell , and as he looked up he saw Paulvitch's head framed in the square of light above him . 
Come up , commanded the Russian . 
But bear in mind that you will be shot if you make a single move to attack me or any other aboard the ship . 
The ape man swung himself lightly to the deck . 
About him , but at a respectful distance , stood a half dozen sailors armed with rifles and revolvers . 
Tarzan looked about for Rokoff , who he felt sure must be aboard , but there was no sign of him . 
Lord Greystoke , commenced the Russian , by your continued and wanton interference with M. Rokoff and his plans you have at last brought yourself and your family to this unfortunate extremity . 
You have only yourself to thank . 
What is the amount ? asked Tarzan . 
And what assurance have I that you will live up to your end of the agreement ? I have little reason to trust two such scoundrels as you and Rokoff , you know . 
You are in no position to deliver insults , he said . 
Unless you are a greater fool than I imagine , you should know that there is nothing that would give us greater pleasure than to order these men to fire . 
That we do not is because we have other plans for punishing you that would be entirely upset by your death . 
Answer one question , said Tarzan . 
That they would permit him to live after he had appended his name to the cheque never occurred to him as being within the realms of probability . 
But he was determined to give them such a battle as they would never forget , and possibly to take Paulvitch with him into eternity . 
He was only sorry that it was not Rokoff . 
He took his pocket cheque book and fountain pen from his pocket . 
What is the amount ? he asked . 
Paulvitch named an enormous sum . 
Tarzan could scarce restrain a smile . 
Their very cupidity was to prove the means of their undoing , in the matter of the ransom at least . 
Purposely he hesitated and haggled over the amount , but Paulvitch was obdurate . 
Finally the ape man wrote out his cheque for a larger sum than stood to his credit at the bank . 
As he turned to hand the worthless slip of paper to the Russian his glance chanced to pass across the starboard bow of the Kincaid . 
To his surprise he saw that the ship lay within a few hundred yards of land . 
Almost down to the water's edge ran a dense tropical jungle , and behind was higher land clothed in forest . 
Paulvitch noted the direction of his gaze . 
You are to be set at liberty here , he said . 
Tarzan's plan for immediate physical revenge upon the Russian vanished . 
He thought the land before him the mainland of Africa , and he knew that should they liberate him here he could doubtless find his way to civilization with comparative ease . 
Remove your clothing , he said to the ape man . 
Here you will not need it . 
Paulvitch pointed to the armed sailors . 
Then the Englishman slowly divested himself of his clothing . 
A boat was lowered , and , still heavily guarded , the ape man was rowed ashore . 
Half an hour later the sailors had returned to the Kincaid , and the steamer was slowly getting under way . 
As Tarzan stood upon the narrow strip of beach watching the departure of the vessel he saw a figure appear at the rail and call aloud to attract his attention . 
He saw a black bearded man who laughed at him in derision as he held high above his head the figure of a little child . 
Tarzan half started as though to rush through the surf and strike out for the already moving steamer but realizing the futility of so rash an act he halted at the water's edge . 
Thus he stood , his gaze riveted upon the Kincaid until it disappeared beyond a projecting promontory of the coast . 
From the jungle at his back fierce bloodshot eyes glared from beneath shaggy overhanging brows upon him . 
Little monkeys in the tree tops chattered and scolded , and from the distance of the inland forest came the scream of a leopard . 
I have at least , he thought , one consolation the knowledge that Jane is safe in London . 
Thank Heaven she , too , did not fall into the clutches of those villains . 
Behind him the hairy thing whose evil eyes had been watching his as a cat watches a mouse was creeping stealthily toward him . 
At first it made little impression on his sorrow numbed senses , but finally the full purport of the hideous plot of revenge unfolded itself before his imagination . 
This will explain to you the note read the exact nature of my intentions relative to your offspring and to you . 
You were born an ape . 
You lived naked in the jungles to your own we have returned you but your son shall rise a step above his sire . 
It is the immutable law of evolution . 
The father was a beast , but the son shall be a man he shall take the next ascending step in the scale of progress . 
I might have killed you , but that would have curtailed the full measure of the punishment you have earned at my hands . 
As he finished reading , a slight sound behind him brought him back with a start to the world of present realities . 
Instantly his senses awoke , and he was again Tarzan of the Apes . 
As he wheeled about , it was a beast at bay , vibrant with the instinct of self preservation , that faced a huge bull ape that was already charging down upon him . 
But there was no alternative other than to meet the rage maddened creature with the weapons with which nature had endowed him . 
Over the bull's shoulder Tarzan could see now the heads and shoulders of perhaps a dozen more of these mighty fore runners of primitive man . 
With a howl of mingled rage and anguish the great anthropoid bent double and sank to the ground , though almost instantly he was again struggling to his feet . 
Once again he was the jungle beast revelling in bloody conflict with his kind . 
Once again he was Tarzan , son of Kala the she ape . 
His strong , white teeth sank into the hairy throat of his enemy as he sought the pulsing jugular . 
Powerful fingers held the mighty fangs from his own flesh , or clenched and beat with the power of a steam hammer upon the snarling , foam flecked face of his adversary . 
In a circle about them the balance of the tribe of apes stood watching and enjoying the struggle . 
They muttered low gutturals of approval as bits of white hide or hairy bloodstained skin were torn from one contestant or the other . 
The little audience of fierce anthropoids heard the creaking of their king's neck mingling with his agonized shrieks and hideous roaring . 
Then there came a sudden crack , like the breaking of a stout limb before the fury of the wind . 
The bullet head crumpled forward upon its flaccid neck against the great hairy chest the roaring and the shrieking ceased . 
Then they knew that their king was dead . 
Across the jungle rolled the horrid notes of the victory cry . 
The little monkeys in the tree tops ceased their chattering . 
The harsh voiced , brilliant plumed birds were still . 
From afar came the answering wail of a leopard and the deep roar of a lion . 
It was the old Tarzan who turned questioning eyes upon the little knot of apes before him . 
The ape man knew that he might expect an immediate attack on the part of that particular surviving bull ape who felt himself best fitted to contend for the kingship of the tribe . 
On the other hand , if he made no attempt to follow them , they might move slowly away from him , later to fight among themselves for the supremacy . 
One of the younger apes , a huge , splendidly muscled brute , was edging threateningly closer to the ape man . 
Through his bared fighting fangs there issued a low , sullen growl . 
Tarzan watched his every move , standing rigid as a statue . 
To stand perfectly still , waiting , was the middle course . 
In this event the bull would , according to custom , approach quite close to the object of his attention , growling hideously and baring slavering fangs . 
Slowly he would circle about the other , as though with a chip upon his shoulder and this he did , even as Tarzan had foreseen . 
As the brute circled him Tarzan turned slowly , keeping his eyes ever upon the eyes of his antagonist . 
He had appraised the young bull as one who had never quite felt equal to the task of overthrowing his former king , but who one day would have done so . 
Tarzan saw that the beast was of wondrous proportions , standing over seven feet upon his short , bowed legs . 
His great , hairy arms reached almost to the ground even when he stood erect , and his fighting fangs , now quite close to Tarzan's face , were exceptionally long and sharp . 
Like the others of his tribe , he differed in several minor essentials from the apes of Tarzan's boyhood . 
Who are you , he asked , who threatens Tarzan of the Apes ? The hairy brute looked his surprise . 
I am Akut , said the ape . 
Go away or I shall kill you ! You saw how easily I killed Molak , replied Tarzan . 
So I could kill you if I cared to be king . 
But Tarzan of the Apes would not be king of the tribe of Akut . 
All he wishes is to live in peace in this country . 
Tarzan of the Apes can help you , and you can help Tarzan of the Apes . 
You cannot kill Akut , replied the other . 
None is so great as Akut . 
Had you not killed Molak , Akut would have done so , for Akut was ready to be king . 
For answer the ape man hurled himself upon the great brute who during the conversation had slightly relaxed his vigilance . 
Down they went together , but so well had Tarzan's plan worked out that before ever they touched the ground he had gained the same hold upon Akut that had broken Molak's neck . 
Ka Goda ? whispered Tarzan to the ape beneath him . 
Tarzan relaxed his grip a trifle . 
You may still be king , Akut , he said . 
Tarzan told you that he did not wish to be king . 
If any question your right , Tarzan of the Apes will help you in your battles . 
The ape man rose , and Akut came slowly to his feet . 
It was but a return to the old existence of constant bloodshed and danger to the hunting and the being hunted . 
Upon the shore he found an out cropping of brittle , igneous rock . 
By dint of much labour he managed to chip off a narrow sliver some twelve inches long by a quarter of an inch thick . 
One edge was quite thin for a few inches near the tip . 
It was the rudiment of a knife . 
With it he went into the jungle , searching until he found a fallen tree of a certain species of hardwood with which he was familiar . 
From this he cut a small straight branch , which he pointed at one end . 
Then he scooped a small , round hole in the surface of the prostrate trunk . 
After a time a thin smoke rose from the little mass of tinder , and a moment later the whole broke into flame . 
Heaping some larger twigs and sticks upon the tiny fire , Tarzan soon had quite a respectable blaze roaring in the enlarging cavity of the dead tree . 
Into this he thrust the blade of his stone knife , and as it became superheated he would withdraw it , touching a spot near the thin edge with a drop of moisture . 
Beneath the wetted area a little flake of the glassy material would crack and scale away . 
Thus , very slowly , the ape man commenced the tedious operation of putting a thin edge upon his primitive hunting knife . 
He did not attempt to accomplish the feat all in one sitting . 
These he cached in a tall tree beside a little stream , and here also he constructed a platform with a roof of palm leaves above it . 
When all these things had been finished it was growing dusk , and Tarzan felt a strong desire to eat . 
To this spot the hungry ape man made his silent way . 
Through the upper terrace of the tree tops he swung with the grace and ease of a monkey . 
But for the heavy burden upon his heart he would have been happy in this return to the old free life of his boyhood . 
Could his fellow peers of the House of Lords have seen him then they would have held up their noble hands in holy horror . 
Nor had he long to wait . 
But more than Bara was coming . 
Numa , perhaps , or Sheeta , the panther . 
In any event , Tarzan could see his repast slipping from his grasp unless Bara moved more rapidly toward the ford than at present . 
It was his intention to flee through the shallow ford and escape upon the opposite side of the river . 
Not a hundred yards behind him came Numa . 
Tarzan could see him quite plainly now . 
Below the ape man Bara was about to pass . 
Could he do it ? But even as he asked himself the question the hungry man launched himself from his perch full upon the back of the startled buck . 
In another instant Numa would be upon them both , so if the ape man were to dine that night , or ever again , he must act quickly . 
With both hands he grasped the limb , and , at the instant that Numa sprang , drew himself and his prey out of reach of the animal's cruel talons . 
The warm blood of his kill smeared his hands and face and filled his nostrils with the scent that the savage carnivora love best . 
Chapter Sheeta The next few days were occupied by Tarzan in completing his weapons and exploring the jungle . 
A sheath and handle for his hunting knife he fashioned , and a quiver for arrows , and from the hide of Bara a belt and loin cloth . 
Then he set out to learn something of the strange land in which he found himself . 
So he was quite at a loss to know where he might be . 
He had seen nothing of them since that first day , when the influences of civilization were still paramount within him . 
So , whereas the ape man had gone carelessly before , he now became the personification of noiseless stealth . 
Some of them were dozing against the boles of trees , while others roamed about turning over bits of bark from beneath which they transferred the luscious grubs and beetles to their mouths . 
Akut was the closest to Sheeta . 
The great cat lay crouched upon a thick limb , hidden from the ape's view by dense foliage , waiting patiently until the anthropoid should come within range of his spring . 
Tarzan cautiously gained a position in the same tree with the panther and a little above him . 
In his left hand he grasped his slim stone blade . 
He would have preferred to use his noose , but the foliage surrounding the huge cat precluded the possibility of an accurate throw with the rope . 
Akut had now wandered quite close beneath the tree wherein lay the waiting death . 
Sheeta slowly edged his hind paws along the branch still further beneath him , and then with a hideous shriek he launched himself toward the great ape . 
The barest fraction of a second before his spring another beast of prey above him leaped , its weird and savage cry mingling with his . 
As the startled Akut looked up he saw the panther almost above him , and already upon the panther's back the white ape that had bested him that day near the great water . 
Akut had just time to leap to one side to avoid being pinioned beneath these battling monsters of the jungle . 
With a crash they came to earth at his feet . 
Sheeta was screaming , snarling , and roaring horribly but the white ape clung tenaciously and in silence to the thrashing body of his quarry . 
Then the ape man raised his head , as he stood over the carcass of his kill , and once again through the jungle rang his wild and savage victory challenge . 
Akut and the apes of Akut stood looking in startled wonder at the dead body of Sheeta and the lithe , straight figure of the man who had slain him . 
Tarzan was the first to speak . 
I am Tarzan of the Apes , he said , Mighty hunter . 
By the great water I spared Akut's life when I might have taken it and become king of the tribe of Akut . 
Now I have saved Akut from death beneath the rending fangs of Sheeta . 
And , he continued , when they hear Tarzan call to them , let them remember what he has done for Akut and come to him with great speed . 
Shall it be as Tarzan says ? Huh ! assented Akut , and from the members of his tribe there rose a unanimous Huh . 
Then , presently , they went to feeding again as though nothing had happened , and with them fed John Clayton , Lord Greystoke . 
As the tribe hunted , the glistening body of the ape man mingled with the brown , shaggy hides of his companions . 
Oftentimes they brushed together in passing , but the apes had already taken his presence for granted , so that he was as much one of them as Akut himself . 
But in those things the treatment was no different from that which they accorded any other member of the tribe . 
Tarzan on his part felt very much at home with these fierce , hairy progenitors of primitive man . 
Thus easily he fell back into the way of his early life , nor did it seem that he had ever tasted association with creatures of his own kind . 
When he was convinced that he had succeeded to some extent in fixing his identity upon them he decided to again take up his exploration . 
To this end he set out toward the north early one day , and , keeping parallel with the shore , travelled rapidly until almost nightfall . 
That night the sun set straight out across the water opposite the land , and then the ape man guessed at last the truth that he had been suspecting . 
Rokoff had set him ashore upon an island . 
Then there was the horrid after fate that awaited the child as he grew to manhood . 
The horrible practices that would form a part of his life training would alone be sufficient to bar him forever from association with those of his own race and station in life . 
A cannibal ! His little boy a savage man eater ! It was too horrible to contemplate . 
The filed teeth , the slit nose , the little face painted hideously . 
Could he but feel the throat of the Russ fiend beneath his steel fingers ! And Jane ! What tortures of doubt and fear and uncertainty she must be suffering . 
It is well for Tarzan that he did not guess the truth , for the knowledge would have but added a hundredfold to his suffering . 
As he moved slowly through the jungle his mind absorbed by his gloomy thoughts , there presently came to his ears a strange scratching sound which he could not translate . 
Cautiously he moved in the direction from which it emanated , presently coming upon a huge panther pinned beneath a fallen tree . 
Relaxing his bowstring , he returned the arrow to the quiver and , throwing the bow about his shoulder , stepped closer to the pinioned beast . 
On his lips was the soothing , purring sound that the great cats themselves made when contented and happy . 
It was the nearest approach to a friendly advance that Tarzan could make in the language of Sheeta . 
The panther ceased his snarling and eyed the ape man closely . 
Having decided , he acted promptly . 
Unhesitatingly , he stepped into the tangle of branches close to the panther's side , still voicing his friendly and conciliatory purr . 
The cat turned his head toward the man , eyeing him steadily questioningly . 
The long fangs were bared , but more in preparedness than threat . 
Slowly Tarzan extended his giant thews . 
The great tree with its entangling branches rose gradually from the panther , who , feeling the encumbering weight diminish , quickly crawled from beneath . 
Tarzan let the tree fall back to earth , and the two beasts turned to look upon one another . 
But it did not do so . 
Instead , it stood a few paces from the tree watching the ape man clamber out of the maze of fallen branches . 
Once outside , Tarzan was not three paces from the panther . 
It was similar to that which he had heard panthers use after a kill when they had been hunting in pairs . 
Almost immediately there was a crashing of the underbrush close at hand , and the long , lithe body of his strange companion broke into view . 
For several days this strangely assorted pair roamed the jungle together . 
When one made a kill he called the other , and thus they fed well and often . 
With an angry , warning roar he sprang forward to chase them from their kill . 
Sheeta bounded into a near by thicket , while Tarzan took to the low branches of an overhanging tree . 
At the same time he called shrilly to Sheeta , as he drew the struggling lion upward until only his hind feet touched the ground . 
And then upon the jungle air there rose in unison from two savage throats the victory cry of the bull ape and the panther , blended into one frightful and uncanny scream . 
The day following the killing of Numa , Tarzan and Sheeta came upon the tribe of Akut . 
At sight of the panther the great apes took to flight , but after a time Tarzan succeeded in recalling them . 
It had occurred to him that it would be at least an interesting experiment to attempt to reconcile these hereditary enemies . 
He welcomed anything that would occupy his time and his mind beyond the filling of his belly and the gloomy thoughts to which he fell prey the moment that he became idle . 
Presently they advanced upon him once more , this time wielding their heavy war spears . 
They were between Tarzan and the jungle , in a little semicircle that closed in upon him as they advanced . 
His predicament was indeed most serious when an idea occurred to him that altered his smile to a broad grin . 
Then it was that the ape man lifted his voice in a series of wild , weird screams that brought the blacks to a sudden , perplexed halt . 
They looked at one another questioningly , for here was a sound so hideous that their own frightful din faded into insignificance beside it . 
The beasts of Tarzan had come in answer to his call . 
Before the Wagambi could recover from their astonishment the frightful horde was upon them from one side and Tarzan of the Apes from the other . 
Heavy spears were hurled and mighty war clubs wielded , and though apes went down never to rise , so , too , went down the men of Ugambi . 
Sheeta's cruel fangs and tearing talons ripped and tore at the black hides . 
Leaving his pack to eat their fill upon the flesh of their victims flesh that he could not touch Tarzan of the Apes pursued the single survivor of the bloody fray . 
Noiseless as the fellow's shadow , the ape man raced after the terror stricken black . 
In the white man's mind was a new plan , awakened by sight of the war canoe . 
In the language of the West Coast , Tarzan spoke to the prostrate man beneath him . 
Who are you ? he asked . 
Mugambi , chief of the Wagambi , replied the black . 
I will spare your life , said Tarzan , if you will promise to help me to leave this island . 
What do you answer ? I will help you , replied Mugambi . 
Tarzan rose and allowed his prisoner to come to his feet . 
The fellow was a magnificent specimen of manhood a black counterpart in physique of the splendid white man whom he faced . 
Come ! said the ape man , and started back in the direction from which they could hear the snarling and growling of the feasting pack . 
They will kill us , he said . 
I think not , replied Tarzan . 
At sight of the men the beasts looked up with menacing growls , but Tarzan strode in among them , dragging the trembling Wagambi with him . 
To say that Mugambi was entirely happy or at ease in his new environment would not be to adhere strictly to the truth . 
It was not , after all , strange that the white man's ways should have been so much more nearly related to those of the beasts than were the savage blacks . 
For instance , there is a tribe in the vicinity of Lake Rudolph that will eat no sheep or cattle , though its next neighbors do so . 
Near by is another tribe that eats donkey meat a custom most revolting to the surrounding tribes that do not eat donkey . 
There was one exception , however , and he was Akut . 
Almost from the first he showed an interest in this new sport that revealed a much higher plane of intelligence than that attained by any of his tribe . 
From Mugambi Tarzan learned that the mainland lay but a short distance from the island . 
The Wagambi chief was quite dubious as to the sail , for he had never seen such a contrivance used . 
His country lay far up the broad Ugambi River , and this was the first occasion that any of his people had found their way to the ocean . 
Tarzan , however , was confident that with a good west wind he could navigate the little craft to the mainland . 
Mugambi and Akut went with him , and Sheeta , the panther , and a dozen great males of the tribe of Akut . 
Chapter A Hideous Crew The war canoe with its savage load moved slowly toward the break in the reef through which it must pass to gain the open sea . 
Tarzan , Mugambi , and Akut wielded the paddles , for the shore kept the west wind from the little sail . 
All went well until the canoe had passed beyond the reef . 
Here the breeze struck the sail , sending the rude craft lunging among the waves that ran higher and higher as they drew away from the shore . 
With the tossing of the boat the apes became panic stricken . 
They first moved uneasily about , and then commenced grumbling and whining . 
At last calm was restored , and eventually the apes became accustomed to the strange antics of their craft , after which no more trouble was experienced with them . 
The dugout turned broadside the instant that its nose touched the sand , and immediately it rolled over , with all its crew scrambling madly for the shore . 
The next breaker rolled them over and over , but eventually they all succeeded in crawling to safety , and in a moment more their ungainly craft had been washed up beside them . 
The balance of the night the apes sat huddled close to one another for warmth while Mugambi built a fire close to them over which he crouched . 
Side by side they walked when there was room for two abreast . 
At other times in single file , first one and then the other in advance . 
Closer and closer they crept toward the unsuspecting beast , Sheeta upon his right side and Tarzan upon his left nearest the great heart . 
They had hunted together now for some time , so that they worked in unison , with only low , purring sounds as signals . 
One of the ape man's hands clutched the thick mane , and as the bull raced madly through the reeds the thing striking at his life was dragged beside him . 
Sheeta but clung tenaciously to his hold upon the neck and back , biting deep in an effort to reach the spine . 
Then Tarzan and Sheeta feasted to repletion . 
After the meal the two curled up together in a thicket , the man's black head pillowed upon the tawny side of the panther . 
Shortly after dawn they awoke and ate again , and then returned to the beach that Tarzan might lead the balance of the pack to the kill . 
When the meal was done the brutes were for curling up to sleep , so Tarzan and Mugambi set off in search of the Ugambi River . 
Sheeta was not anywhere to be seen , nor did he return that night , so that Tarzan came to believe that he had wandered away in search of his own kind . 
Early the next morning the ape man led his band down to the river , and as he walked he gave vent to a series of shrill cries . 
Another white man is coming ! he cried to the chief who squatted before the entrance to his circular hut . 
Another white man , and with him are many warriors . 
They come in a great war canoe to kill and rob as did the black bearded one who has just left us . 
Kaviri leaped to his feet . 
He had but recently had a taste of the white man's medicine , and his savage heart was filled with bitterness and hate . 
In another moment the rumble of the war drums rose from the village , calling in the hunters from the forest and the tillers from the fields . 
Seven war canoes were launched and manned by paint daubed , befeathered warriors . 
Long spears bristled from the rude battle ships , as they slid noiselessly over the bosom of the water , propelled by giant muscles rolling beneath glistening , ebony hides . 
The blacks were overcome with terror , but there was nothing to do other than to fight . 
Now came the other war canoes rapidly down upon the two craft . 
Their occupants were eager to join the battle , for they thought that their foes were white men and their native porters . 
They swarmed about Tarzan's craft but when they saw the nature of the enemy all but one turned and paddled swiftly upriver . 
That one came too close to the ape man's craft before its occupants realized that their fellows were pitted against demons instead of men . 
Kaviri was so busily engaged with the demons that had entered his own craft that he could offer no assistance to his warriors in the other . 
A giant of a white devil had wrested his spear from him as though he , the mighty Kaviri , had been but a new born babe . 
Hairy monsters were overcoming his fighting men , and a black chieftain like himself was fighting shoulder to shoulder with the hideous pack that opposed him . 
When he opened his eyes once more he found , much to his surprise , that he was not dead . 
He lay , securely bound , in the bottom of his own canoe . 
A great panther sat upon its haunches , looking down upon him . 
Kaviri shuddered and closed his eyes again , waiting for the ferocious creature to spring upon him and put him out of his misery of terror . 
After a moment , no rending fangs having buried themselves in his trembling body , he again ventured to open his eyes . 
Beyond the panther kneeled the white giant who had overcome him . 
The man was wielding a paddle , while directly behind him Kaviri saw some of his own warriors similarly engaged . 
Back of them again squatted several of the hairy apes . 
Tarzan , seeing that the chief had regained consciousness , addressed him . 
Your warriors tell me that you are the chief of a numerous people , and that your name is Kaviri , he said . 
Yes , replied the black . 
Why did you attack me ? I came in peace . 
I am not as this other white man , replied Tarzan . 
I should not have harmed you had you not set upon me . 
Tell me , what was the face of this bad white man like ? I am searching for one who has wronged me . 
Possibly this may be the very one . 
He was a man with a bad face , covered with a great , black beard , and he was very , very wicked yes , very wicked indeed . 
Was there a little white child with him ? asked Tarzan , his heart almost stopped as he awaited the black's answer . 
No , bwana , replied Kaviri , the white child was not with this man's party it was with the other party . 
Other party ! exclaimed Tarzan . 
What other party ? With the party that the very bad white man was pursuing . 
There was a white man , woman , and the child , with six Mosula porters . 
They passed up the river three days ahead of the very bad white man . 
I think that they were running away from him . 
A white man , woman , and child ! Tarzan was puzzled . 
As he talked to Kaviri the canoes had been moving steadily up river toward the chief's village . 
Kaviri's warriors plied the paddles in the three canoes , casting sidelong , terrified glances at their hideous passengers . 
Kaviri's warriors thought that they had never seen so terrible a crew in all their lives . 
At Kaviri's camp Tarzan paused only long enough to eat the food that the blacks furnished , and arrange with the chief for a dozen men to man the paddles of his canoe . 
Tarzan could not repress a smile . 
They do not seem anxious to accompany us , he said but just remain quietly here , Kaviri , and presently you shall see your people flocking to your side . 
For half an hour the silence of the grim forest was broken only by the ordinary sounds of the teeming life that but adds to its lowering loneliness . 
Kaviri and Mugambi sat alone in the palisaded village , waiting . 
Presently from a great distance came a hideous sound . 
Mugambi recognized the weird challenge of the ape man . 
Immediately from different points of the compass rose a horrid semicircle of similar shrieks and screams , punctuated now and again by the blood curdling cry of a hungry panther . 
Chapter Betrayed The two savages , Kaviri and Mugambi , squatting before the entrance to Kaviri's hut , looked at one another Kaviri with ill concealed alarm . 
What is it ? he whispered . 
It is Bwana Tarzan and his people , replied Mugambi . 
But what they are doing I know not , unless it be that they are devouring your people who ran away . 
Kaviri shuddered and rolled his eyes fearfully toward the jungle . 
In all his long life in the savage forest he had never heard such an awful , fearsome din . 
Closer and closer came the sounds , and now with them were mingled the terrified shrieks of women and children and of men . 
For twenty long minutes the blood curdling cries continued , until they seemed but a stone's throw from the palisade . 
Kaviri rose to flee , but Mugambi seized and held him , for such had been the command of Tarzan . 
A moment later a horde of terrified natives burst from the jungle , racing toward the shelter of their huts . 
Like frightened sheep they ran , and behind them , driving them as sheep might be driven , came Tarzan and Sheeta and the hideous apes of Akut . 
Presently Tarzan stood before Kaviri , the old quiet smile upon his lips . 
Your people have returned , my brother , he said , and now you may select those who are to accompany me and paddle my canoe . 
Tremblingly Kaviri tottered to his feet , calling to his people to come from their huts but none responded to his summons . 
Tell them , suggested Tarzan , that if they do not come I shall send my people in after them . 
Quickly Kaviri designated a dozen warriors to accompany Tarzan . 
It was with a sigh of relief that their chieftain saw the party disappear about a headland a short distance up river . 
For three days the strange company continued farther and farther into the heart of the savage country that lies on either side of the almost unexplored Ugambi . 
Three of the twelve warriors deserted during that time but as several of the apes had finally learned the secret of the paddles , Tarzan felt no dismay because of the loss . 
Twice a day they landed to hunt and feed , and at night they slept upon the bank of the mainland or on one of the numerous little islands that dotted the river . 
Before them the natives fled in alarm , so that they found only deserted villages in their path as they proceeded . 
Tarzan was anxious to get in touch with some of the savages who dwelt upon the river's banks , but so far he had been unable to do so . 
Finally he decided to take to the land himself , leaving his company to follow after him by boat . 
He explained to Mugambi the thing that he had in mind , and told Akut to follow the directions of the black . 
I will join you again in a few days , he said . 
Now I go ahead to learn what has become of the very bad white man whom I seek . 
At the next halt Tarzan took to the shore , and was soon lost to the view of his people . 
The women were preparing the evening meal as Tarzan of the Apes poised above them in the branches of a giant tree which overhung the palisade at one point . 
The ape man was at a loss as to how he might enter into communication with these people without either frightening them or arousing their savage love of battle . 
He had no desire to fight now , for he was upon a much more important mission than that of battling with every chance tribe that he should happen to meet with . 
At last he hit upon a plan , and after seeing that he was concealed from the view of those below , he gave a few hoarse grunts in imitation of a panther . 
All eyes immediately turned upward toward the foliage above . 
It was growing dark , and they could not penetrate the leafy screen which shielded the ape man from their view . 
Tarzan knew well the nature of the black man . 
Let me in , my friends ! he cried . 
I am a white man pursuing the very bad white man who passed this way a few days ago . 
I follow to punish him for the sins he has committed against you and me . 
If you doubt my friendship , I will prove it to you by going into the tree above your village and driving Sheeta back into the jungle before he leaps among you . 
If you will not promise to take me in and treat me as a friend I shall let Sheeta stay and devour you . 
For a moment there was silence . 
Then the voice of an old man came out of the quiet of the village street . 
If you are indeed a white man and a friend , we will let you come in but first you must drive Sheeta away . 
Very well , replied Tarzan . 
Listen , and you shall hear Sheeta fleeing before me . 
A few minutes later he returned to the village gate , calling to the natives within . 
I have driven Sheeta away , he said . 
Now come and admit me as you promised . 
From the chief he learned that Rokoff had passed up the river a week previous , and that he had horns growing from his forehead , and was accompanied by a thousand devils . 
Later the chief said that the very bad white man had remained a month in his village . 
What he was most interested in knowing was that he was upon the right trail , and that it led toward the interior . 
In this circumstance he knew that Rokoff could never escape him . 
And now , he concluded , I shall lie down beneath this tree and sleep . 
Permit no one to disturb me . 
He gave as his reason a desire to be close at hand should Sheeta return , and after this explanation the chief was very glad to permit him to sleep beneath the tree . 
Tarzan had always found that it stood him in good stead to leave with natives the impression that he was to some extent possessed of more or less miraculous powers . 
All the balance of that night the ape man swung rapidly through the upper and middle terraces of the forest . 
At dawn he stopped to feed , and then he slept for several hours , taking up the pursuit again toward noon . 
Two days later , still following up the Ugambi , he came upon a large village . 
The chief , a wicked looking fellow with the sharp filed teeth that often denote the cannibal , received him with apparent friendliness . 
The chief told him that the bearded white man had left his village only the morning before , and that doubtless he would be able to overtake him in a short time . 
The other party the chief had not seen or heard of , so he said . 
Scarcely had he left the chief than the latter called two of his warriors , to whom he whispered a few instructions . 
A moment later the sleek , black bodies were racing along the river path , up stream , toward the east . 
In the village the chief maintained perfect quiet . 
He would permit no one to approach the sleeping visitor , nor any singing , nor loud talking . 
He was remarkably solicitous lest his guest be disturbed . 
Three hours later several canoes came silently into view from up the Ugambi . 
They were being pushed ahead rapidly by the brawny muscles of their black crews . 
And such indeed was the purpose of his attitude which meant that the white stranger within his village still slept peacefully . 
In the bows of two of the canoes were the runners that the chief had sent forth three hours earlier . 
In a few moments the dugouts drew up to the verdure clad bank . 
The native warriors filed out , and with them a half dozen white men . 
Sullen , ugly looking customers they were , and none more so than the evil faced , black bearded man who commanded them . 
Where is the white man your messengers report to be with you ? he asked of the chief . 
This way , bwana , replied the native . 
Carefully have I kept silence in the village that he might be still asleep when you returned . 
Had you not told me this tale I should not have recognized him , and then he might have gone after and slain you . 
You have done well , replied the white man , and you shall have the rifle and ammunition whether he be a friend or enemy , provided that you stand with me . 
I shall stand with you , bwana , said the chief , and now come and look upon the stranger , who sleeps within my village . 
So saying , he turned and led the way toward the hut , in the shadow of which the unconscious Tarzan slept peacefully . 
Behind the two men came the remaining whites and a score of warriors but the raised forefingers of the chief and his companion held them all to perfect silence . 
The chief looked at the other inquiringly . 
The latter nodded his head , to signify that the chief had made no mistake in his suspicions . 
Then he turned to those behind him and , pointing to the sleeping man , motioned for them to seize and bind him . 
A moment later a dozen brutes had leaped upon the surprised Tarzan , and so quickly did they work that he was securely bound before he could make half an effort to escape . 
Then they threw him down upon his back , and as his eyes turned toward the crowd that stood near , they fell upon the malign face of Nikolas Rokoff . 
A sneer curled the Russian's lips . 
He stepped quite close to Tarzan . 
Have you not learned sufficient wisdom to keep away from Nikolas Rokoff ? Then he kicked the prostrate man full in the face . 
That for your welcome , he said . 
Tonight , before my Ethiop friends eat you , I shall tell you what has already befallen your wife and child , and what further plans I have for their futures . 
Chapter The Dance of Death Through the luxuriant , tangled vegetation of the Stygian jungle night a great lithe body made its way sinuously and in utter silence upon its soft padded feet . 
Only two blazing points of yellow green flame shone occasionally with the reflected light of the equatorial moon that now and again pierced the softly sighing roof rustling in the night wind . 
Occasionally the beast would stop with high held nose , sniffing searchingly . 
At other times a quick , brief incursion into the branches above delayed it momentarily in its steady journey toward the east . 
To its sensitive nostrils came the subtle unseen spoor of many a tender four footed creature , bringing the slaver of hunger to the cruel , drooping jowl . 
But steadfastly it kept on its way , strangely ignoring the cravings of appetite that at another time would have sent the rolling , fur clad muscles flying at some soft throat . 
It was dusk when it approached the palisade that surrounded a large native village . 
Here the beast sniffed for a moment , and then , turning its head upon one side , listened with up pricked ears . 
A wondrous transformation was wrought in the motionless mass of statuesque bone and muscle that had an instant before stood as though carved out of the living bronze . 
Great circles of colour were drawn about their eyes and lips , their breasts and abdomens , and from their clay plastered coiffures rose gay feathers and bits of long , straight wire . 
Death ! Tarzan had looked the Hideous Hunter in the face many a time , and smiled . 
Jane would never know the manner of it . 
For that he thanked Heaven and he was thankful also that she at least was safe in the heart of the world's greatest city . 
Safe among kind and loving friends who would do their best to lighten her misery . 
But the boy ! Tarzan writhed at the thought of him . 
He was to die in a few hours , and with him would go the child's last chance of succour . 
Dusk had fallen upon the village , and the ape men could hear the preparations going forward for the torture and the feast . 
The dance of death he could picture in his mind's eye for he had seen the thing many times in the past . 
Now he was to be the central figure , bound to the stake . 
The torture of the slow death as the circling warriors cut him to bits with the fiendish skill , that mutilated without bringing unconsciousness , had no terrors for him . 
Let them relax their watchfulness but for an instant , he knew that his cunning mind and giant muscles would find a way to escape escape and revenge . 
As he lay , thinking furiously on every possibility of self salvation , there came to his sensitive nostrils a faint and a familiar scent . 
Instantly every faculty of his mind was upon the alert . 
Presently his trained ears caught the sound of the soundless presence without behind the hut wherein he lay . 
Presently through the hole thus made slunk a great beast , pressing its cold muzzle close to his neck . 
It was Sheeta , the panther . 
The beast snuffed round the prostrate man , whining a little . 
Presently there came an interruption . 
Some one was approaching the hut . 
Sheeta gave a low growl and slunk into the blackness of a far corner . 
Evidently the visitor did not hear the warning sound , for almost immediately he entered the hut a tall , naked , savage warrior . 
He came to Tarzan's side and pricked him with a spear . 
Full upon the breast of the painted savage the great beast struck , burying sharp talons in the black flesh and sinking great yellow fangs in the ebon throat . 
There was a fearful scream of anguish and terror from the black , and mingled with it was the hideous challenge of the killing panther . 
Then came silence silence except for the rending of bloody flesh and the crunching of human bones between mighty jaws . 
The noise had brought sudden quiet to the village without . 
Then there came the sound of voices in consultation . 
High pitched , fear filled voices , and deep , low tones of authority , as the chief spoke . 
The man heard the soft scraping of the body as it passed over the top of the palisade , and then silence . 
From the opposite side of the hut he heard the savages approaching to investigate . 
The natives were at the entrance to the hut now , peering fearfully into the dark interior . 
Two in advance held lighted torches in their left hands and ready spears in their right . 
They held back timorously against those behind , who were pushing them forward . 
Presently one of those who was being forced unwillingly within hit upon a happy scheme for learning first the precise nature of the danger which menaced him from the silent interior . 
With a quick movement he flung his lighted torch into the centre of the hut . 
Instantly all within was illuminated for a brief second before the burning brand was dashed out against the earth floor . 
For an hour Tarzan heard only the murmur of excited voices from the far end of the village . 
But in the end it was two of the whites who first entered , carrying torches and guns . 
Tarzan was not surprised to discover that neither of them was Rokoff . 
He would have wagered his soul that no power on earth could have tempted that great coward to face the unknown menace of the hut . 
The whites tried in vain to elicit an explanation from Tarzan but to all their queries he but shook his head , a grim and knowing smile curving his lips . 
His face grew very white as his eyes rested upon the bloody thing grinning up at him from the floor , the face set in a death mask of excruciating horror . 
Come ! he said to the chief . 
Let us get to work and finish this demon before he has an opportunity to repeat this thing upon more of your people . 
The chief gave orders that Tarzan should be lifted and carried to the stake but it was several minutes before he could prevail upon any of his men to touch the prisoner . 
At last , however , four of the younger warriors dragged Tarzan roughly from the hut , and once outside the pall of terror seemed lifted from the savage hearts . 
A score of howling blacks pushed and buffeted the prisoner down the village street and bound him to the post in the centre of the circle of little fires and boiling cooking pots . 
He stepped close to the ape man , and , seizing a spear from the hands of one of the savages , was the first to prod the helpless victim . 
A little stream of blood trickled down the giant's smooth skin from the wound in his side but no murmur of pain passed his lips . 
The smile of contempt upon his face seemed to infuriate the Russian . 
With a volley of oaths he leaped at the helpless captive , beating him upon the face with his clenched fists and kicking him mercilessly about the legs . 
Then he raised the heavy spear to drive it through the mighty heart , and still Tarzan of the Apes smiled contemptuously upon him . 
Before Rokoff could drive the weapon home the chief sprang upon him and dragged him away from his intended victim . 
Stop , white man ! he cried . 
Rob us of this prisoner and our death dance , and you yourself may have to take his place . 
The threat proved most effective in keeping the Russian from further assaults upon the prisoner , though he continued to stand a little apart and hurl taunts at his enemy . 
He told Tarzan that he himself was going to eat the ape man's heart . 
He enlarged upon the horrors of the future life of Tarzan's son , and intimated that his vengeance would reach as well to Jane Clayton . 
You think your wife safe in England , said Rokoff . 
Poor fool ! She is even now in the hands of one not even of decent birth , and far from the safety of London and the protection of her friends . 
I had not meant to tell you this until I could bring to you upon Jungle Island proof of her fate . 
The dance had commenced now , and the yells of the circling warriors drowned Rokoff's further attempts to distress his victim . 
The leaping savages , the flickering firelight playing upon their painted bodies , circled about the victim at the stake . 
To Tarzan's memory came a similar scene , when he had rescued D'Arnot from a like predicament at the last moment before the final spear thrust should have ended his sufferings . 
Who was there now to rescue him ? In all the world there was none able to save him from the torture and the death . 
The thought that these human fiends would devour him when the dance was done caused him not a single qualm of horror or disgust . 
The spears were commencing to find his body in the first torturing pricks that prefaced the more serious thrusts . 
It would not be long now . 
The ape man longed for the last savage lunge that would end his misery . 
And then , far out in the mazes of the weird jungle , rose a shrill scream . 
For an instant the blacks and the whites stood transfixed with terror . 
Their eyes were riveted upon the bared fangs of the jungle cat . 
Only Tarzan of the Apes saw what else there was emerging from the dark interior of the hut . 
For several days she saw no one other than Sven Anderssen , the Kincaid's taciturn and repellent cook . 
She asked him the name of the shore upon which her husband had been set . 
Ay tank it blow purty soon purty hard , replied the Swede , and that was all that she could get out of him . 
Three days from the spot where Tarzan had been marooned the Kincaid came to anchor in the mouth of a great river , and presently Rokoff came to Jane Clayton's cabin . 
We have arrived , my dear , he said , with a sickening leer . 
I have come to offer you safety , liberty , and ease . 
My heart has been softened toward you in your suffering , and I would make amends as best I may . 
Your husband was a brute you know that best who found him naked in his native jungle , roaming wild with the savage beasts that were his fellows . 
Now I am a gentleman , not only born of noble blood , but raised gently as befits a man of quality . 
I love you , Jane . 
You have but to say the word and no further sorrows shall afflict you even your baby shall be returned to you unharmed . 
Outside the door Sven Anderssen paused with the noonday meal he had been carrying to Lady Greystoke . 
As Rokoff closed his appeal , awaiting the reply he invited , the look of surprise upon Jane Clayton's face turned to one of disgust . 
She fairly shuddered in the fellow's face . 
I have known you for a scoundrel , M. Rokoff but until now I had not taken you for a fool . 
Rokoff's eyes narrowed , and the red of mortification flushed out the pallor of his face . 
He took a step toward the girl , threateningly . 
Peter , I'll forego all that I had planned for the brat and cut its heart out before your very eyes . 
You'll learn what it means to insult Nikolas Rokoff . 
Jane Clayton turned wearily away . 
What is the use , she said , of expatiating upon the depths to which your vengeful nature can sink ? You cannot move me either by threats or deeds . 
Love him as I do , I would not purchase his life at such a price . 
Did I , he would execrate my memory to the day of his death . 
Rokoff was now thoroughly angered because of his failure to reduce the girl to terror . 
Again he stepped closer to her . 
His evil face was convulsed with rage and desire . 
Like a wild beast he sprang upon her , and with his strong fingers at her throat forced her backward upon the berth . 
At the same instant the door of the cabin opened noisily . 
Rokoff leaped to his feet , and , turning , faced the Swede cook . 
Into the fellow's usually foxy eyes had come an expression of utter stupidity . 
His lower jaw drooped in vacuous harmony . 
He busied himself in arranging Lady Greystoke's meal upon the tiny table at one side of her cabin . 
The Russian glared at him . 
What do you mean , he cried , by entering here without permission ? Get out ! The cook turned his watery blue eyes upon Rokoff and smiled vacuously . 
Ay tank it blow purty soon purty hard , he said , and then he began rearranging the few dishes upon the little table . 
Get out of here , or I'll throw you out , you miserable blockhead ! roared Rokoff , taking a threatening step toward the Swede . 
Rokoff saw the move and stopped short in his advance . 
Then he turned toward Jane Clayton . 
I will give you until tomorrow , he said , to reconsider your answer to my offer . 
All will be sent ashore upon one pretext or another except you and the child , Paulvitch and myself . 
Then without interruption you will be able to witness the death of the baby . 
He spoke in French that the cook might not understand the sinister portent of his words . 
When he had done he banged out of the cabin without another look at the man who had interrupted him in his sorry work . 
When he had gone , Sven Anderssen turned toward Lady Greystoke the idiotic expression that had masked his thoughts had fallen away , and in its place was one of craft and cunning . 
Hay tank Ay ban a fool , he said . 
Jane Clayton looked at him in surprise . 
You understood all that he said , then ? Anderssen grinned . 
You bat , he said . 
And you heard what was going on in here and came to protect me ? You bane good to me , explained the Swede . 
Hay treat me like darty dog . 
Ay help you , lady . 
You yust vait Ay help you . 
Ay ban Vast Coast lots times . 
Though Jane Clayton doubted the cook's ability to be of any material service to her , she was nevertheless deeply grateful to him for what he already had done . 
She saw no more of Rokoff that day , nor of any other until Sven came with her evening meal . 
He seemed suddenly to have relapsed into his wonted state of dense stupidity . 
However , when he was leaving her cabin a little later with the empty dishes he whispered very low , Leave on your clothes an' roll up your blankets . 
Ay come back after you purty soon . 
He would have slipped from the room at once , but Jane laid her hand upon his sleeve . 
My baby ? she asked . 
I cannot go without him . 
You do wot Ay tal you , said Anderssen , scowling . 
Ay ban halpin' you , so don't you gat too fonny . 
When he had gone Jane Clayton sank down upon her berth in utter bewilderment . 
What was she to do ? Suspicions as to the intentions of the Swede swarmed her brain . 
Swiftly she crossed the room and drew the bolt . 
Softly the door swung open to admit the muffled figure of the Swede . 
On one arm he carried a bundle , evidently his blankets . 
His other hand was raised in a gesture commanding silence , a grimy forefinger upon his lips . 
He came quite close to her . 
Carry this , he said . 
Do not make some noise when you see it . 
We got no time to vaste . 
He snatched up her bundle of blankets , and outside the cabin door his own as well . 
Then he led her to the ship's side , steadied her descent of the monkey ladder , holding the child for her as she climbed to the waiting boat below . 
Up this narrow channel the Swede turned the prow of the small boat . 
Jane Clayton wondered if the man knew where he was bound . 
Even though the moon was full , the surface of the small river was quite dark . 
The giant trees overhung its narrow banks , meeting in a great arch above the centre of the river . 
And with them strange , uncanny notes that the girl could not ascribe to any particular night prowler more terrible because of their mystery . 
She could scarce wait for the coming of the day that she might look again upon the bright face of her little , black eyed Jack . 
Then once more she would cuddle the warm , little bundle close to her throbbing heart . 
At the village gate they were admitted by a native woman , the wife of the chief whom Anderssen had paid to assist him . 
When she awoke it was broad daylight . 
About her were clustered a score of curious natives mostly men , for among the aborigines it is the male who owns this characteristic in its most exaggerated form . 
Instinctively Jane Clayton drew the baby more closely to her , though she soon saw that the blacks were far from intending her or the child any harm . 
The sun was shining brightly now , and though the baby still slept , Jane could scarce restrain her impatient desire to have at least a brief glance at the beloved face . 
The natives had withdrawn at a command from their chief , who now stood talking with Anderssen , a little apart from her . 
It scarce seemed credible that he could be serving her from motives purely chivalrous . 
There must be something deeper in his intentions and plans than he had yet disclosed . 
The baby was awake ! Now she might feast her eyes upon him . 
Quickly she snatched the blanket from before the infant's face Anderssen was looking at her as she did so . 
He saw her stagger to her feet , holding the baby at arm's length from her , her eyes glued in horror upon the little chubby face and twinkling eyes . 
Then he heard her piteous cry as her knees gave beneath her , and she sank to the ground in a swoon . 
Some of the warriors turned to battle with their enraged antagonists , but before the fiendish ferocity of the fierce beasts they went down to bloody death . 
As for Sheeta the great cat understood even less than the apes but yet Tarzan could not but marvel at the remarkable characteristics this beast had evidenced . 
That it had gone of its own volition to bring the balance of the pack to his rescue , Tarzan could not doubt . 
His Sheeta was indeed a jewel among beasts . 
Mugambi's absence worried the ape man not a little . 
With daylight their courage would be equal to the demands of a charge upon the handful of beasts that had routed them from their rightful abodes . 
For half an hour they pranced and yelled their courage to the sticking point , and again essayed a charge . 
This time they came quite to the village gate , but when Sheeta and the hideous apes leaped among them they turned screaming in terror , and again fled to the jungle . 
Again was the dancing and shouting repeated . 
This time Tarzan felt no doubt they would enter the village and complete the work that a handful of determined white men would have carried to a successful conclusion at the first attempt . 
They had done their best , and now he was sure they would doubtless remain to die with him in a fruitless effort to defend him . 
The blacks were already preparing for the charge . 
A few individuals had advanced a short distance toward the village and were exhorting the others to follow them . 
In a moment the whole savage horde would be racing across the clearing . 
Tarzan thought only of the little child somewhere in this cruel , relentless wilderness . 
Succour , all that he could hope for , had come to him in the instant of his extremity and failed . 
There was nothing further for which to hope . 
The blacks were half way across the clearing when Tarzan's attention was attracted by the actions of one of the apes . 
The beast was glaring toward one of the huts . 
To his infinite relief and delight he saw the stalwart form of Mugambi racing toward him . 
The huge black was panting heavily as though from strenuous physical exertion and nervous excitement . 
He rushed to Tarzan's side , and as the first of the savages reached the village gate the native's knife severed the last of the cords that bound Tarzan to the stake . 
In the street lay the corpses of the savages that had fallen before the pack the night before . 
One prisoner fell into the hands of Tarzan , and him the ape man questioned in an effort to learn what had become of Rokoff and his party . 
Promised his liberty in return for the information , the black told all he knew concerning the movements of the Russian . 
Upon no conditions would he consent to returning even within sight of the village . 
Instead , he took his party hurriedly to the river , where they stole a number of canoes the blacks had hidden there . 
The last that had been seen of them they had been paddling strongly up stream , their porters from Kaviri's village wielding the blades . 
So once more Tarzan of the Apes with his hideous pack took up his search for the ape man's son and the pursuit of his abductor . 
For weary days they followed through an almost uninhabited country , only to learn at last that they were upon the wrong trail . 
The little band had been reduced by three , for three of Akut's apes had fallen in the fighting at the village . 
Now , with Akut , there were five great apes , and Sheeta was there and Mugambi and Tarzan . 
The ape man no longer heard rumors even of the three who had preceded Rokoff the white man and woman and the child . 
Who the man and woman were he could not guess , but that the child was his was enough to keep him hot upon the trail . 
In retracing their way after losing Rokoff's trail Tarzan picked it up again at a point where the Russian had left the river and taken to the brush in a northerly direction . 
He could only account for this change on the ground that the child had been carried away from the river by the two who now had possession of it . 
Nowhere along the way , however , could he gain definite information that might assure him positively that the child was ahead of him . 
Not a single native they questioned had seen or heard of this other party , though nearly all had had direct experience with the Russian or had talked with others who had . 
It was with difficulty that Tarzan could find means to communicate with the natives , as the moment their eyes fell upon his companions they fled precipitately into the bush . 
His only alternative was to go ahead of his pack and waylay an occasional warrior whom he found alone in the jungle . 
The white was one whom Tarzan had often seen , and whom he recognized at once . 
Deep in his memory was implanted those repulsive features the close set eyes , the shifty expression , the drooping yellow moustache . 
Instantly it occurred to the ape man that this fellow had not been among those who had accompanied Rokoff at the village where Tarzan had been a prisoner . 
He had seen them all , and this fellow had not been there . 
There could be but one explanation he it was who had fled ahead of the Russian with the woman and the child and the woman had been Jane Clayton . 
He was sure now of the meaning of Rokoff's words . 
The ape man's face went white as he looked upon the pasty , vice marked countenance of the Swede . 
The man was his prey the black should not have him , and with the thought he leaped upon the warrior , striking down the spear before it could reach its mark . 
An English nobleman ! He had learned the identity of the Kincaid's prisoners from Lady Greystoke during their flight up the Ugambi . 
Before , in common with the other members of the crew of the steamer , he had not known who the two might be . 
Tarzan had been compelled to kill his antagonist , as the fellow would not surrender . 
Then Tarzan turned toward him . 
His face was cold and cruel , and in the grey eyes the Swede read murder . 
Where is my wife ? growled the ape man . 
Where is the child ? Anderssen tried to reply , but a sudden fit of coughing choked him . 
There was an arrow entirely through his chest , and as he coughed the blood from his wounded lung poured suddenly from his mouth and nostrils . 
Tarzan stood waiting for the paroxysm to pass . 
Like a bronze image cold , hard , and relentless he stood over the helpless man , waiting to wring such information from him as he needed , and then to kill . 
Presently the coughing and haemorrhage ceased , and again the wounded man tried to speak . 
Tarzan knelt near the faintly moving lips . 
The wife and child ! he repeated . 
Where are they ? Anderssen pointed up the trail . 
The Russian he got them , he whispered . 
How did you come here ? continued Tarzan . 
Why are you not with Rokoff ? They catch us , replied Anderssen , in a voice so low that the ape man could just distinguish the words . 
Ay fight , but my men they all run away . 
Then they get me when Ay ban vounded . 
Rokoff he say leave me here for the hyenas . 
That vas vorse than to kill . 
He tak your vife and kid . 
You have seen that I can do it ! A look of wide eyed surprise overspread Anderssen's face . 
Why , he whispered , Ay did not hurt them . 
Ay tried to save them from that Russian . 
Your vife was kind to me on the Kincaid , and Ay hear that little baby cry sometimes . 
Ay got a vife an' kid for my own by Christiania an' Ay couldn't bear for to see them separated an' in Rokoff's hands any more . 
Do Ay look like Ay ban here to hurt them ? he continued after a pause , pointing to the arrow protruding from his breast . 
There was something in the man's tone and expression that convinced Tarzan of the truth of his assertions . 
More weighty than anything else was the fact that Anderssen evidently seemed more hurt than frightened . 
The ape man instantly dropped to his knees beside the Swede . 
I am sorry , he said very simply . 
I had looked for none but knaves in company with Rokoff . 
I see that I was wrong . 
That is past now , and we will drop it for the more important matter of getting you to a place of comfort and looking after your wounds . 
We must have you on your feet again as soon as possible . 
The Swede , smiling , shook his head . 
You go on an' look for the vife an' kid , he said . 
Ay ban as gude as dead already but he hesitated Ay hate to think of the hyenas . 
Von't you finish up this job ? Tarzan shuddered . 
A moment ago he had been upon the point of killing this man . 
Now he could no more have taken his life than he could have taken the life of any of his best friends . 
He lifted the Swede's head in his arms to change and ease his position . 
Again came a fit of coughing and the terrible haemorrhage . 
After it was over Anderssen lay with closed eyes . 
Tarzan thought that he was dead , until he suddenly raised his eyes to those of the ape man , sighed , and spoke in a very low , weak whisper . 
Ay tank it blow purty soon purty hard ! he said , and died . 
Chapter Tambudza Tarzan scooped a shallow grave for the Kincaid's cook , beneath whose repulsive exterior had beaten the heart of a chivalrous gentleman . 
That was all he could do in the cruel jungle for the man who had given his life in the service of his little son and his wife . 
Then Tarzan took up again the pursuit of Rokoff . 
The spoor of the white men was obliterated by that of the native carriers who had followed them , and over all was the spoor of other natives and of wild beasts . 
It was most perplexing yet Tarzan kept on assiduously , checking his sense of sight against his sense of smell , that he might more surely keep to the right trail . 
But , with all his care , night found him at a point where he was positive that he was on the wrong trail entirely . 
For a week the sun was obscured by heavy clouds , while violent rain and wind storms obliterated the last remnants of the spoor Tarzan constantly though vainly sought . 
During all this time he saw no signs of natives , nor of his own pack , the members of which he feared had lost his trail during the terrific storm . 
When the sun at last broke through the clouds in the fore noon of the seventh day , it looked down upon an almost frantic ape man . 
For the first time in his life , Tarzan of the Apes had been lost in the jungle . 
That the experience should have befallen him at such a time seemed cruel beyond expression . 
Somewhere in this savage land his wife and son lay in the clutches of the arch fiend Rokoff . 
But now that the sun shone once more , the ape man was still at a loss as to what direction to take . 
He knew that Rokoff had left the river in pursuit of Anderssen , but whether he would continue inland or return to the Ugambi was a question . 
The second day following the cessation of the rain Tarzan came upon a native village the inhabitants of which fled into the bush the instant their eyes fell upon him . 
Tarzan , not to be thwarted in any such manner as this , pursued them , and after a brief chase caught up with a young warrior . 
The fellow was so badly frightened that he was unable to defend himself , dropping his weapons and falling upon the ground , wide eyed and screaming as he gazed on his captor . 
It was with considerable difficulty that the ape man quieted the fellow's fears sufficiently to obtain a coherent statement from him as to the cause of his uncalled for terror . 
From him Tarzan learned , by dint of much coaxing , that a party of whites had passed through the village several days before . 
These men had told them of a terrible white devil that pursued them , warning the natives against it and the frightful pack of demons that accompanied it . 
The black had recognized Tarzan as the white devil from the descriptions given by the whites and their black servants . 
Behind him he had expected to see a horde of demons disguised as apes and panthers . 
In this Tarzan saw the cunning hand of Rokoff . 
The Russian was attempting to make travel as difficult as possible for him by turning the natives against him in superstitious fear . 
The native further told Tarzan that the white man who had led the recent expedition had promised them a fabulous reward if they would kill the white devil . 
The fellow was short and stout , with an unusually low and degraded countenance and apelike arms . 
His whole expression denoted deceitfulness . 
Many of the Russian's porters had already deserted him . 
In that very village he had hanged five for theft and attempted desertion . 
M'ganwazam denied that there had been any white woman or child with the party of whites but even as he spoke Tarzan was convinced that he lied . 
Tarzan demanded food of the chief , and after considerable haggling on the part of the monarch succeeded in obtaining a meal . 
He then tried to draw out others of the tribe , especially the young man whom he had captured in the bush , but M'ganwazam's presence sealed their lips . 
When he had stated his decision to the chief he was rather surprised to note the sudden change in the fellow's attitude toward him . 
From apparent dislike and suspicion M'ganwazam became a most eager and solicitous host . 
Who is it , he asked , that creeps upon Tarzan of the Apes , like a hungry lion out of the darkness ? Silence , bwana ! replied an old cracked voice . 
It is Tambudza she whose hut you would not take , and thus drive an old woman out into the cold night . 
What does Tambudza want of Tarzan of the Apes ? asked the ape man . 
You were kind to me to whom none is now kind , and I have come to warn you in payment of your kindness , answered the old hag . 
Warn me of what ? M'ganwazam has chosen the young men who are to sleep in the hut with you , replied Tambudza . 
I was near as he talked with them , and heard him issuing his instructions to them . 
When the dance is run well into the morning they are to come to the hut . 
If you are awake they are to pretend that they have come to sleep , but if you sleep it is M'ganwazam's command that you be killed . 
If you are not then asleep they will wait quietly beside you until you do sleep , and then they will all fall upon you together and slay you . 
M'ganwazam is determined to win the reward the white man has offered . 
M'ganwazam knows where they camp . 
His runners could quickly overtake them they move slowly . 
Where are they ? asked Tarzan . 
Do you wish to come to them ? asked Tambudza in way of reply . 
I cannot tell you where they lie so that you could come to the place yourself , but I could lead you to them , bwana . 
Come , then , said Tarzan quickly , let us be on our way . 
Yes , bwana , replied Tambudza , there was a woman with them and a little child a little white piccaninny . 
As her eyes rested upon them an expression of misery and horror overspread her countenance . 
What is the matter ? he asked . 
You ban sick ? Where is my baby ? she cried , ignoring his questions . 
Anderssen held out the chubby infant , but she shook her head . 
It is not mine , she said . 
You knew that it was not mine . 
You are a devil like the Russian . 
Anderssen's blue eyes stretched in surprise . 
Not yours ! he exclaimed . 
You tole me the kid aboard the Kincaid ban your kid . 
Not this one , replied Jane dully . 
Where is the other ? There must have been two . 
I did not know about this one . 
There vasn't no other kid . 
Ay tank this ban yours . 
Anderssen fidgeted about , standing first on one foot and then upon the other . 
It was perfectly evident to Jane that he was honest in his protestations of ignorance of the true identity of the child . 
Presently the baby commenced to crow , and bounce up and down in the Swede's arms , at the same time leaning forward with little hands out reaching toward the young woman . 
She could not withstand the appeal , and with a low cry she sprang to her feet and gathered the baby to her breast . 
For a few minutes she wept silently , her face buried in the baby's soiled little dress . 
Then , too , there was the mute appeal of this wee waif alone and unloved in the midst of the horrors of the savage jungle . 
Have you no idea whose child this is ? she asked Anderssen . 
The man shook his head . 
Not now , he said . 
If he ain't ban your kid , Ay don' know whose kid he do ban . 
Rokoff said it was yours . 
Ay tank he tank so , too . 
What do we do with it now ? Ay can't go back to the Kincaid . 
Rokoff would have me shot but you can go back . 
Ay take you to the sea , and then some of these black men they take you to the ship eh ? No ! no ! cried Jane . 
I would rather die than fall into the hands of that man again . 
No , let us go on and take this poor little creature with us . 
If God is willing we shall be saved in one way or another . 
The days and nights of torture that the young woman suffered were so merged into one long , unbroken nightmare of hideousness that she soon lost all track of time . 
Whether they had been wandering for days or years she could not tell . 
The one bright spot in that eternity of fear and suffering was the little child whose tiny hands had long since fastened their softly groping fingers firmly about her heart . 
In a way the little thing took the place and filled the aching void that the theft of her own baby had left . 
For some time their progress inland was extremely slow . 
Word came to them from time to time through natives passing from the coast on hunting excursions that Rokoff had not yet guessed the direction of their flight . 
This , and the desire to make the journey as light as possible for the gently bred woman , kept Anderssen to a slow advance of short and easy marches with many rests . 
The Swede insisted upon carrying the child while they travelled , and in countless other ways did what he could to help Jane Clayton conserve her strength . 
At the close of each day's march Anderssen saw to the erection of a comfortable shelter for Jane and the child . 
Her tent was always pitched in the most favourable location . 
The thorn boma round it was the strongest and most impregnable that the Mosula could construct . 
It was then that Anderssen took to the river , purchasing a canoe from a chief whose village lay a short distance from the Ugambi upon the bank of a tributary . 
Thereafter the little party of fugitives fled up the broad Ugambi , and so rapid had their flight become that they no longer received word of their pursuers . 
At the end of canoe navigation upon the river , they abandoned their canoe and took to the jungle . 
Here progress became at once arduous , slow , and dangerous . 
The second day after leaving the Ugambi the baby fell ill with fever . 
This information could mean but one thing , and that they must break camp and fly onward regardless of the baby's condition . 
As they stumbled forward through the tangled vegetation along an old and almost overgrown game trail the Mosula porters deserted them one by one . 
The men had been staunch enough in their devotion and loyalty as long as they were in no danger of being overtaken by the Russian and his party . 
Yet on and on went Anderssen and the girl . 
Late in the afternoon they realized that they had failed . 
Close behind them they heard the noise of a large safari advancing along the trail which they had cleared for their pursuers . 
When it became quite evident that they must be overtaken in a short time Anderssen hid Jane behind a large tree , covering her and the child with brush . 
There is a village about a mile farther on , he said to her . 
The Mosula told me its location before they deserted us . 
Ay try to lead the Russian off your trail , then you go on to the village . 
Ay tank the chief ban friendly to white men the Mosula tal me he ban . 
Anyhow , that was all we can do . 
Then you be all right . 
Gude by an' gude luck to you , lady ! But where are you going , Sven ? asked Jane . 
Why can't you join me then after you have told him that ? insisted the girl . 
Ay don't tank Ay join anybody any more after Ay tal the Russian you ban dead , he said . 
Anderssen did not reply , other than to warn her to silence and point toward the path along which they had just come . 
I don't care , whispered Jane Clayton . 
I shall not let you die to save me if I can prevent it in any way . 
I can use that , and together we may be able to hold them off until we can find some means of escape . 
It won't work , lady , replied Anderssen . 
They would only get us both , and then Ay couldn't do you no good at all . 
Think of the kid , lady , and what it would be for you both to fall into Rokoff's hands again . 
For his sake you must do what Ay say . 
Here , take my rifle and ammunition you may need them . 
He shoved the gun and bandoleer into the shelter beside Jane . 
She watched him as he returned along the path to meet the oncoming safari of the Russian . 
Soon a turn in the trail hid him from view . 
Her first impulse was to follow . 
She started to crawl from her shelter with the intention of running after Anderssen as fast as she could . 
As she drew the baby close to her she glanced down into its little face . 
How red it was ! How unnatural the little thing looked . 
She raised the cheek to hers . 
It was fiery hot with fever ! With a little gasp of terror Jane Clayton rose to her feet in the jungle path . 
The rifle and bandoleer lay forgotten in the shelter beside her . 
Anderssen was forgotten , and Rokoff , and her great peril . 
If she could but reach it in time ! There was no time to be lost . 
Like a startled antelope she turned and fled up the trail in the direction Anderssen had indicated . 
From far behind came the sudden shouting of men , the sound of shots , and then silence . 
She knew that Anderssen had met the Russian . 
A half hour later she stumbled , exhausted , into a little thatched village . 
Instantly she was surrounded by men , women , and children . 
Eager , curious , excited natives plied her with a hundred questions , no one of which she could understand or answer . 
All that she could do was to point tearfully at the baby , now wailing piteously in her arms , and repeat over and over , Fever fever fever . 
Presently he dipped a zebra's tail into the brew , and with further mutterings and incantations sprinkled a few drops of the liquid over the baby's face . 
It must have been well toward midnight that she became conscious of a sudden commotion in the village . 
She heard the voices of the natives raised in controversy , but she could not understand the words . 
Presently she heard footsteps approaching the hut in which she squatted before a bright fire with the baby on her lap . 
The little thing lay very still now , its lids , half raised , showed the pupils horribly upturned . 
Jane Clayton looked into the little face with fear haunted eyes . 
It was not her baby not her flesh and blood but how close , how dear the tiny , helpless thing had become to her . 
The footsteps she had heard without the hut now halted before the door . 
There was a whispered colloquy , and a moment later M'ganwazam , chief of the tribe , entered . 
She had seen but little of him , as the women had taken her in hand almost as soon as she had entered the village . 
M'ganwazam , she now saw , was an evil appearing savage with every mark of brutal degeneracy writ large upon his bestial countenance . 
To Jane Clayton he looked more gorilla than human . 
He tried to converse with her , but without success , and finally he called to some one without . 
In answer to his summons another Negro entered a man of very different appearance from M'ganwazam so different , in fact , that Jane Clayton immediately decided that he was of another tribe . 
She thought it strange that the fellow should so suddenly have become interested in her plans , and especially in her intended destination when her journey had been interrupted at his village . 
Then he told her the purpose of his visit , talking through the interpreter . 
Jane thanked M'ganwazam for his kindness , though her heart was numb with suffering at this new blow . 
She who had suffered so much was at last beyond reach of the keenest of misery's pangs , for her senses were numbed and calloused . 
With bowed head she sat staring with unseeing eyes upon the face of the baby in her lap . 
M'ganwazam had left the hut . 
Sometime later she heard a noise at the entrance another had entered . 
One of the women sitting opposite her threw a faggot upon the dying embers of the fire between them . 
With a sudden flare it burst into renewed flame , lighting up the hut's interior as though by magic . 
The flame disclosed to Jane Clayton's horrified gaze that the baby was quite dead . 
How long it had been so she could not guess . 
A choking lump rose to her throat , her head drooped in silent misery upon the little bundle that she had caught suddenly to her breast . 
For a moment the silence of the hut was unbroken . 
Then the native woman broke into a hideous wail . 
A man coughed close before Jane Clayton and spoke her name . 
With a start she raised her eyes to look into the sardonic countenance of Nikolas Rokoff . 
Chapter Escape For a moment Rokoff stood sneering down upon Jane Clayton , then his eyes fell to the little bundle in her lap . 
Jane had drawn one corner of the blanket over the child's face , so that to one who did not know the truth it seemed but to be sleeping . 
You have gone to a great deal of unnecessary trouble , said Rokoff , to bring the child to this village . 
If you had attended to your own affairs I should have brought it here myself . 
You would have been spared the dangers and fatigue of the journey . 
But I suppose I must thank you for relieving me of the inconvenience of having to care for a young infant on the march . 
This is the village to which the child was destined from the first . 
Again I thank you for bringing him here for me , and now I must ask you to surrender him to me , that I may turn him over to his foster parents . 
As he concluded Rokoff held out his hands for the child , a nasty grin of vindictiveness upon his lips . 
To his surprise Jane Clayton rose and , without a word of protest , laid the little bundle in his arms . 
Here is the child , she said . 
Thank God he is beyond your power to harm . 
Grasping the import of her words , Rokoff snatched the blanket from the child's face to seek confirmation of his fears . 
Jane Clayton watched his expression closely . 
She had been puzzled for days for an answer to the question of Rokoff's knowledge of the child's identity . 
Almost throwing the body of the child back into Jane Clayton's arms , Rokoff stamped up and down the hut , pounding the air with his clenched fists and cursing terribly . 
At last he halted in front of the young woman , bringing his face down close to hers . 
You are laughing at me , he shrieked . 
You have robbed me of the child . 
If he had thought to wring from Jane Clayton any sign of terror he failed miserably . 
Her brain and nerves were numb to suffering and shock . 
To his surprise a faint , almost happy smile touched her lips . 
She was thinking with thankful heart that this poor little corpse was not that of her own wee Jack , and that best of all Rokoff evidently did not know the truth . 
She would have liked to have flaunted the fact in his face , but she dared not . 
If he continued to believe that the child had been hers , so much safer would be the real Jack wherever he might be . 
No , the Russian must never know that this was not her baby . 
Rokoff's threat , she realized , was no idle one . 
She must find some way to take her own life before the Russian could harm her further . 
Just now she wanted time time to think and prepare herself for the end . 
She felt that she could not take the last , awful step until she had exhausted every possibility of escape . 
Go away ! she said to the Russian . 
Go away and leave me in peace with my dead . 
But where is the use in discussing the matter ? We shall bury the child here , and you will return with me at once to my own camp . 
Tomorrow I shall bring you back and turn you over to your new husband the lovely M'ganwazam . 
Come ! He reached out for the child . 
Jane , who was on her feet now , turned away from him . 
I shall bury the body , she said . 
Send some men to dig a grave outside the village . 
Rokoff was anxious to have the thing over and get back to his camp with his victim . 
He thought he saw in her apathy a resignation to her fate . 
The porters lighted torches now and waved them upon either hand to frighten off the beasts of prey . 
Rokoff urged them to greater speed , and from the quavering note in his voice Jane Clayton knew that he was weak from terror . 
There seemed no place in death for that great body and those mighty thews . 
Had Rokoff been the one to tell her of her lord's passing she would have known that he lied . 
There could be no reason , she thought , why M'ganwazam should have deceived her . 
She did not know that the Russian had talked with the savage a few minutes before the chief had come to her with his tale . 
At last they reached the rude boma that Rokoff's porters had thrown up round the Russian's camp . 
Here they found all in turmoil . 
When he had done venting his rage upon those who remained he returned to where Jane stood under guard of a couple of his white sailors . 
He grasped her roughly by the arm and started to drag her toward his tent . 
The girl struggled and fought to free herself , while the two sailors stood by , laughing at the rare treat . 
Rokoff did not hesitate to use rough methods when he found that he was to have difficulty in carrying out his designs . 
Repeatedly he struck Jane Clayton in the face , until at last , half conscious , she was dragged within his tent . 
Rokoff's boy had lighted the Russian's lamp , and now at a word from his master he made himself scarce . 
Jane had sunk to the floor in the middle of the enclosure . 
Slowly her numbed senses were returning to her and she was commencing to think very fast indeed . 
Quickly her eyes ran round the interior of the tent , taking in every detail of its equipment and contents . 
Now the Russian was lifting her to her feet and attempting to drag her to the camp cot that stood at one side of the tent . 
At his belt hung a heavy revolver . 
Jane Clayton's eyes riveted themselves upon it . 
Her palm itched to grasp the huge butt . 
She feigned again to swoon , but through her half closed lids she waited her opportunity . 
It came just as Rokoff was lifting her upon the cot . 
A noise at the tent door behind him brought his head quickly about and away from the girl . 
The butt of the gun was not an inch from her hand . 
With a single , lightning like move she snatched the weapon from its holster , and at the same instant Rokoff turned back toward her , realizing his peril . 
The memory of the two brutes who stood and laughed as Rokoff struck her was still vivid . 
Without a sound he sank , limp and unconscious , to the ground . 
A moment later the girl stood beside him for a moment at least free from the menace of his lust . 
Outside the tent she again heard the noise that had distracted Rokoff's attention . 
In the total darkness of the interior she paused for a moment to collect her wits and plan for the next step in her venture for freedom . 
About her was a camp of enemies . 
Beyond these foes a black wilderness of savage jungle peopled by hideous beasts of prey and still more hideous human beasts . 
Rokoff's tent stood almost exactly in the centre of the boma . 
Surrounding it were the tents and shelters of his white companions and the natives of his safari . 
To pass through these and find egress through the boma seemed a task too fraught with insurmountable obstacles to warrant even the slightest consideration , and yet there was no other way . 
Groping along the rear of the canvas wall , she found that there was no opening there . 
Quickly she returned to the side of the unconscious Russian . 
In his belt her groping fingers came upon the hilt of a long hunting knife , and with this she cut a hole in the back wall of the tent . 
To her immense relief she saw that the camp was apparently asleep . 
In the dim and flickering light of the dying fires she saw but a single sentry , and he was dozing upon his haunches at the opposite side of the enclosure . 
Keeping the tent between him and herself , she crossed between the small shelters of the native porters to the boma wall beyond . 
Outside , in the darkness of the tangled jungle , she could hear the roaring of lions , the laughing of hyenas , and the countless , nameless noises of the midnight jungle . 
For a moment she hesitated , trembling . 
The thought of the prowling beasts out there in the darkness was appalling . 
Then , with a sudden brave toss of her head , she attacked the thorny boma wall with her delicate hands . 
Torn and bleeding though they were , she worked on breathlessly until she had made an opening through which she could worm her body , and at last she stood outside the enclosure . 
Behind her lay a fate worse than death , at the hands of human beings . 
Before her lay an almost certain fate but it was only death sudden , merciful , and honourable death . 
Without a tremor and without regret she darted away from the camp , and a moment later the mysterious jungle had closed about her . 
The guides found the white man's camp in a turmoil . 
Rokoff had that morning been discovered stunned and bleeding within his tent . 
When he had recovered his senses and realized that Jane Clayton had escaped , his rage was boundless . 
Instantly confusion reigned within the encircling boma . 
Thus Rokoff and the seven white sailors found themselves deserted and robbed in the midst of a wilderness . 
In the midst of this tirade one of them drew a revolver and fired point blank at the Russian . 
The fellow's aim was poor , but his act so terrified Rokoff that he turned and fled for his tent . 
What he saw was the giant figure of an almost naked white man emerging from the bush . 
As the ape man entered the boma with old Tambudza at his elbow the seven sailors , recognizing him , turned and fled in the opposite direction . 
Tarzan saw that Rokoff was not among them , and so he let them go their way his business was with the Russian , whom he expected to find in his tent . 
He has doubtless hastened there , argued the old woman . 
If you would find him let us return at once . 
His one hope was that Jane was still safe and with Rokoff . 
If this was the case , it would be but a matter of an hour or more before he should be able to wrest her from the Russian . 
He knew now that M'ganwazam was treacherous and that he might have to fight to regain possession of his wife . 
As she ran on , hoping against hope that she had hit upon the direction that would lead her eventually to the great river , she came suddenly upon a familiar spot . 
It was where Anderssen had hidden her where he had given up his life in the vain effort to save her from Rokoff . 
At sight of it she recalled the rifle and ammunition that the man had thrust upon her at the last moment . 
Until now she had forgotten them entirely . 
As she threw the latter about her shoulder and felt the weight of the big game gun in her hand a sudden sense of security suffused her . 
It was with new hope and a feeling almost of assured success that she again set forward upon her journey . 
Late in the afternoon , as she was about to cross a little clearing , she was startled at the sight of a huge ape coming from the jungle upon the opposite side . 
The wind was blowing directly across the clearing between them , and Jane lost no time in putting herself downwind from the huge creature . 
Then she hid in a clump of heavy bush and watched , holding the rifle ready for instant use . 
To her consternation she saw that the apes were pausing in the centre of the clearing . 
They came together in a little knot , where they stood looking backward , as though in expectation of the coming of others of their tribe . 
Quickly the beast trotted across the clearing toward the anthropoids . 
Now she saw that he seemed actually conversing with the beasts issuing orders to them . 
Presently the entire company filed on across the clearing and disappeared in the jungle upon the opposite side . 
This one was Rokoff but he had recognized the members of the awful aggregation as allies of Tarzan of the Apes . 
Upon the bank the girl saw a great dugout drawn half way from the water and tied securely to a near by tree . 
This , she felt , would solve the question of transportation to the sea could she but launch the huge , unwieldy craft . 
There were no stones or rocks available , but along the shore she found quantities of driftwood deposited by the river at a slightly higher stage . 
He watched her and her labours with a cruel and malicious grin upon his swarthy countenance . 
As her gaze fell upon the figure of the man a little cry of terror rose to her lips . 
Jane Clayton knew nothing of the various misfortunes that had befallen the Russian since she had escaped from his tent , so she believed that his followers must be close at hand . 
However , she had no intention of falling again into the man's clutches . 
She would rather die at once than that that should happen to her . 
Another minute and the boat would be free . 
Rokoff , on his part , was bent more upon escape than aught else . 
He would gladly have forgone any designs he might have had upon Jane Clayton would she but permit him to share this means of escape that she had discovered . 
He would promise anything if she would let him come aboard the dugout , but he did not think that it was necessary to do so . 
He saw that he could easily reach the bow of the boat before it cleared the shore , and then it would not be necessary to make promises of any sort . 
Already he was gloating over the days and nights of revenge that would be his while the heavy dugout drifted its slow way to the ocean . 
His fingers did not miss their goal by a half dozen inches . 
The girl almost collapsed with the reaction from the terrific mental , physical , and nervous strain under which she had been labouring for the past few minutes . 
For the thing that the man had seen and grasped was the end of the trailing rope with which the dugout had been moored to the tree . 
Chapter Down the Ugambi Halfway between the Ugambi and the village of the Waganwazam , Tarzan came upon the pack moving slowly along his old spoor . 
Mugambi could scarce believe that the trail of the Russian and the mate of his savage master had passed so close to that of the pack . 
It had been apparent to Tarzan from the first that Jane and Rokoff were not travelling together . 
He felt they must be close ahead of him now , and , with a little thrill of expectation , he leaped rapidly forward ahead of the pack . 
Swinging swiftly through the trees , he came out upon the river bank at the very point at which Rokoff had overhauled Jane as she endeavoured to launch the cumbersome dugout . 
To follow him it was necessary for the heavy , cumbersome apes to make a wide detour , and Sheeta , too , who hated water . 
Mugambi followed after them as rapidly as he could in the wake of the great white master . 
Jane was not with the Russian . 
At sight of his enemy the broad scar upon the ape man's brow burned scarlet , and there rose to his lips the hideous , bestial challenge of the bull ape . 
Rokoff shuddered as the weird and terrible alarm fell upon his ears . 
With steady , powerful strokes the ape man forged out into the stream toward the drifting dugout . 
And from the opposite bank a sinister ripple , unseen by either man , moving steadily toward the half naked swimmer . 
Tarzan had reached the stern of the craft at last . 
One hand upstretched grasped the gunwale . 
Rokoff sat frozen with fear , unable to move a hand or foot , his eyes riveted upon the face of his Nemesis . 
Then a sudden commotion in the water behind the swimmer caught his attention . 
He saw the ripple , and he knew what caused it . 
At the same instant Tarzan felt mighty jaws close upon his right leg . 
He tried to struggle free and raise himself over the side of the boat . 
His efforts would have succeeded had not this unexpected interruption galvanized the malign brain of the Russian into instant action with its sudden promise of deliverance and revenge . 
Like a venomous snake the man leaped toward the stern of the boat , and with a single swift blow struck Tarzan across the head with the heavy paddle . 
The ape man's fingers slipped from their hold upon the gunwale . 
Weak from terror , Rokoff sank shuddering into the bottom of the dugout . 
Past populous villages he had fled . 
Nowhere in his flight had he seen aught of Jane Clayton . 
Well , he was at least rid of most of his human enemies . 
The sight of the mouth of the Ugambi filled Rokoff with renewed hope , for there , upon the yellow waters of the bay , floated the Kincaid at anchor . 
Frantically he alternately paddled furiously toward her and rose to his feet waving his paddle and crying aloud in an attempt to attract the attention of those on board . 
But loud as he screamed his cries awakened no answering challenge from the deck of the silent craft . 
Upon the shore behind him a hurried backward glance revealed the presence of the snarling pack . 
Thus only did she gain rest upon the voyage at other times she continually sought to augment the movement of the craft by wielding the heavy paddle . 
It was too late , however , to turn back , for the current that carried her toward the ship was much too strong for her muscles . 
With Rokoff away from the steamer it might be possible that by offering those in charge a large reward they could be induced to carry her to the nearest civilized port . 
It was worth risking if she could make the steamer at all . 
The current was bearing her swiftly down the river , and she found that only by dint of the utmost exertion could she direct the awkward craft toward the vicinity of the Kincaid . 
The dugout was drawing closer and closer to the bow of the vessel , and yet no hail came over the side from any lookout aboard . 
The young woman called loudly for assistance , but there was no reply other than the shrill scream of some savage beast upon the jungle shrouded shore . 
Frantically Jane wielded the paddle in an effort to carry her craft close alongside the steamer . 
Heroically she clung to the heavy iron links , almost dragged from the canoe by the strain of the current upon her craft . 
Beyond her she saw a monkey ladder dangling over the steamer's side . 
A moment later , her rifle slung about her shoulders , she had clambered safely to the deserted deck . 
Her first task was to explore the ship , and this she did , her rifle ready for instant use should she meet with any human menace aboard the Kincaid . 
With a shudder of disgust she clambered above , and to the best of her ability closed and made fast the hatch above the heads of the sleeping guard . 
It had not proceeded far in her direction before she recognized the occupant as Rokoff , and when the fellow attempted to board he found a rifle staring him in the face . 
Jane had but a single reply for his every proposition , and that was that nothing would ever persuade her to permit Rokoff upon the same vessel with her . 
That she would put her threats into action and shoot him should he persist in his endeavour to board the ship he was convinced . 
But out of his native element the ape man was too greatly handicapped to do more than excite the monster to greater speed as it dragged its prey swiftly through the water . 
Tarzan's lungs were bursting for a breath of pure fresh air . 
He knew that he could survive but a moment more , and in the last paroxysm of his suffering he did what he could to avenge his own death . 
All about him was the blackness of the pit the silence of the grave . 
For a moment Tarzan of the Apes lay gasping for breath upon the slimy , evil smelling bed to which the animal had borne him . 
Close at his side he could feel the cold , hard plates of the creatures coat rising and falling as though with spasmodic efforts to breathe . 
To his utter amazement he found that the beast was dead . 
The slim knife had found a vulnerable spot in the scaly armour . 
Staggering to his feet , the ape man groped about the reeking , oozy den . 
He found that he was imprisoned in a subterranean chamber amply large enough to have accommodated a dozen or more of the huge animals such as the one that had dragged him thither . 
His first thought , of course , was of escape , but that he could make his way to the surface of the river beyond and then to the shore seemed highly improbable . 
Even should he reach the river in safety , there was still the danger of his being again attacked before he could effect a safe landing . 
It gave him excruciating pain , that was all . 
Rapidly he crawled and swam through the passage which inclined downward and finally upward to open at last into the river bottom but a few feet from the shore line . 
As the ape man reached the surface he saw the heads of two great crocodiles but a short distance from him . 
They were making rapidly in his direction , and with a superhuman effort the man struck out for the overhanging branches of a near by tree . 
Nor was he a moment too soon , for scarcely had he drawn himself to the safety of the limb than two gaping mouths snapped venomously below him . 
For a few minutes Tarzan rested in the tree that had proved the means of his salvation . 
His eyes scanned the river as far down stream as the tortuous channel would permit , but there was no sign of the Russian or his dugout . 
When he had rested and bound up his wounded leg he started on in pursuit of the drifting canoe . 
To his intense chagrin he soon found that his leg was more badly injured than he had thought , and that its condition seriously impeded his progress . 
From the old negress , Tambudza , Tarzan had gathered a suggestion that now filled his mind with doubts and misgivings . 
From this belief he garnered some slight surcease from the numbing grief that the death of his little son had thrust upon him . 
At times he startled even himself and sent the lesser creatures of the wild jungle scampering to their hiding places as involuntary roars and growls rumbled from his throat . 
His idea was to search the shore that night for signs of the Russian and the woman who he was certain must have preceded Rokoff down the Ugambi . 
That the Kincaid or other ship lay at anchor but a hundred yards from him he did not dream , for no light showed on board the steamer . 
Motionless as a statue he stood listening to the faint sound . 
And yet , as far as he could see , there was no ship there nor might there be one within a thousand miles . 
The boat that had attracted Jane's attention as she stood guard upon the deck of the Kincaid had been perceived by Rokoff upon one bank and Mugambi and the horde upon the other . 
The savage , snarling pack upon the opposite shore had been directed in their pursuit by the black warrior , Mugambi , chief of the Wagambi . 
Only he knew which might be foe and which friend of their lost master . 
Mugambi knew something of the occurrences which had led up to the landing of Tarzan upon Jungle Island and the pursuit of the whites up the Ugambi . 
He believed also that this same man had killed the great white giant whom he had come to respect and love as he had never loved the greatest chiefs of his own people . 
And so in the wild breast of Mugambi burned an iron resolve to win to the side of the wicked one and wreak vengeance upon him for the murder of the ape man . 
So it happened that even before Jane Clayton fired the first shot into Rokoff's canoe the beasts of Tarzan had disappeared into the jungle . 
With ready revolver to compel obedience , she let them up one by one , searching them carefully for concealed weapons as they stood with hands elevated above their heads . 
It was a perfect night for the purposes of the work in hand . 
Her enemies could not see the activity aboard the ship nor mark her course as the swift current bore her outward into the ocean . 
For a few minutes the Kincaid drifted rapidly with the current , and then , with a grinding jar , she stopped in midstream . 
The ship had run upon a low lying bar that splits the channel about a quarter of a mile from the sea . 
For a moment she hung there , and then , swinging round until her bow pointed toward the shore , she broke adrift once more . 
Seeing that she was off her guard , the two sailors crept stealthily upon her from behind . 
The scraping upon the deck of the shoes of one of them startled the girl to a sudden appreciation of her danger , but the warning had come too late . 
After all her pains her heroic struggle for freedom had failed . 
With a stifled sob she gave up the unequal battle . 
Chapter On the Deck of the Kincaid When Mugambi had turned back into the jungle with the pack he had a definite purpose in view . 
It was to obtain a dugout wherewith to transport the beasts of Tarzan to the side of the Kincaid . 
Nor was he long in coming upon the object which he sought . 
Just at dusk he found a canoe moored to the bank of a small tributary of the Ugambi at a point where he had felt certain that he should find one . 
Without loss of time he piled his hideous fellows into the craft and shoved out into the stream . 
So quickly had they taken possession of the canoe that the warrior had not noticed that it was already occupied . 
The huddled figure sleeping in the bottom had entirely escaped his observation in the darkness of the night that had now fallen . 
To Mugambi's astonishment he saw that it was a native woman . 
With difficulty he kept the ape from her throat , and after a time succeeded in quelling her fears . 
It seemed that she had been fleeing from marriage with an old man she loathed and had taken refuge for the night in the canoe she had found upon the river's edge . 
Mugambi did not wish her presence , but there she was , and rather than lose time by returning her to the shore the black permitted her to remain on board the canoe . 
As quickly as his awkward companions could paddle the dugout down stream toward the Ugambi and the Kincaid they moved through the darkness . 
As he approached it he was amazed to note that it seemed to be receding from him , and finally he was convinced that the vessel was moving down stream . 
At the same instant the occupants of the stranger discovered the proximity of Mugambi's horde , but they did not at first recognize the nature of the fearful crew . 
A man in the bow of the oncoming boat challenged them just as the two dugouts were about to touch . 
Instantly Rokoff realized the peril that confronted him and his fellows . 
Thus the Kincaid was returning Jane Clayton directly into the hands of her enemies . 
He was guided by the sounds which he could hear coming from the two canoes . 
So close was it that a few strokes brought him up to the thing , when to his amazement his outstretched hand came in contact with a ship's side . 
As the agile ape man clambered over the vessel's rail there came to his sensitive ears the sound of a struggle at the opposite side of the deck . 
Noiselessly he sped across the intervening space . 
His keen eyes , therefore , saw the figures of two men grappling with a woman . 
But he wasted little time in idle speculation . 
There was a woman in danger of harm from two ruffians , which was enough excuse for the ape man to project his giant thews into the conflict without further investigation . 
The first that either of the sailors knew that there was a new force at work upon the ship was the falling of a mighty hand upon a shoulder of each . 
As if they had been in the grip of a fly wheel , they were jerked suddenly from their prey . 
What means this ? asked a low voice in their ears . 
Brief , however , were the moments for their greeting . 
Scarcely had they recognized one another than the clouds above them parted to show the figures of a half dozen men clambering over the side of the Kincaid to the steamer's deck . 
Foremost among them was the Russian . 
Tarzan pushed Jane behind the cabin near which they had been standing , and with a quick bound started for Rokoff . 
First came five snarling apes , huge , manlike beasts , with bared fangs and slavering jaws and after them a giant black warrior , his long spear gleaming in the moonlight . 
For the moment Tarzan's attention was distracted by the two men before him , so that he could not at the time pursue the Russian . 
About him the apes and Mugambi were battling with the balance of the Russian's party . 
Four , however , escaped and disappeared into the forecastle , where they hoped to barricade themselves against further assault . 
Tarzan saw the man emerge from the forecastle saw and recognized his enemy but another saw him even as soon . 
It was Sheeta , and with grinning jaws the mighty beast slunk silently toward the terror stricken man . 
Tarzan took a step toward the Russian , his brain burning with a raging fire of vengeance . 
At last he had the murderer of his son at his mercy . 
His was the right to avenge . 
His fingers clenched and unclenched spasmodically as he approached the trembling Russ , beastlike and ominous as a brute of prey . 
Presently he saw that Sheeta was about to forestall him , robbing him of the fruits of his great hate . 
He called sharply to the panther , and the words , as if they had broken a hideous spell that had held the Russian , galvanized him into sudden action . 
With a scream he turned and fled toward the bridge . 
After him pounced Sheeta the panther , unmindful of his master's warning voice . 
Tarzan was about to leap after the two when he felt a light touch upon his arm . 
Turning , he found Jane at his elbow . 
Do not leave me , she whispered . 
All about were the hideous apes of Akut . 
Some , even , were approaching the young woman with bared fangs and menacing guttural warnings . 
The ape man warned them back . 
He had forgotten for the moment that these were but beasts , unable to differentiate his friends and his foes . 
Their savage natures were roused by their recent battle with the sailors , and now all flesh outside the pack was meat to them . 
Tarzan turned again toward the Russian , chagrined that he should have to forgo the pleasure of personal revenge unless the man should escape Sheeta . 
But as he looked he saw that there could be no hope of that . 
The fellow had retreated to the end of the bridge , where he now stood trembling and wide eyed , facing the beast that moved slowly toward him . 
The panther crawled with belly to the planking , uttering uncanny mouthings . 
Rokoff stood as though petrified , his eyes protruding from their sockets , his mouth agape , and the cold sweat of terror clammy upon his brow . 
Below him , upon the deck , he had seen the great anthropoids , and so had not dared to seek escape in that direction . 
In fact , even now one of the brutes was leaping to seize the bridge rail and draw himself up to the Russian's side . 
Before him was the panther , silent and crouched . 
His voice broke in inarticulate shrieks . 
With a last piercing wail he sank to his knees and then Sheeta sprang . 
Full upon the man's breast the tawny body hurtled , tumbling the Russian to his back . 
As the great fangs tore at the throat and chest , Jane Clayton turned away in horror but not so Tarzan of the Apes . 
A cold smile of satisfaction touched his lips . 
The scar upon his forehead that had burned scarlet faded to the normal hue of his tanned skin and disappeared . 
Rokoff fought furiously but futilely against the growling , rending fate that had overtaken him . 
For all his countless crimes he was punished in the brief moment of the hideous death that claimed him at the last . 
All that night Sheeta , the panther , crouched upon the grisly thing that had been Nikolas Rokoff . 
The bridge of the Kincaid was slippery with blood . 
Beneath the brilliant tropic moon the great beast feasted until , when the sun rose the following morning , there remained of Tarzan's great enemy only gnawed and broken bones . 
Of the Russian's party , all were accounted for except Paulvitch . 
Four were prisoners in the Kincaid's forecastle . 
Tarzan's joy had been unbounded when he learned from his wife that the little child who had died in the village of M'ganwazam was not their son . 
There was , however , a certain sense of relief in the knowledge that they might yet hope . 
Until positive proof of the baby's death reached them there was always that to buoy them up . 
It seemed quite evident that their little Jack had not been brought aboard the Kincaid . 
Plan after plan he formed only to discard each either as impracticable , or unworthy the vengeance his wrongs demanded . 
Hastening through the dense jungle , his mind centred upon his one fetich revenge the Russian forgot even his terror of the savage world through which he moved . 
As the Russian stumbled on through the jungle toward the Mosula village there presently crystallized within his brain a plan which seemed more feasible than any that he had as yet considered . 
That was before he had sold them out for immunity and gold to the police of Petrograd . 
But the infernal machine was the thing to think of now . 
He could do much with that if he could but get his hands upon it . 
Within the little hardwood case hidden in the cabin table rested sufficient potential destructiveness to wipe out in the fraction of a second every enemy aboard the Kincaid . 
Paulvitch licked his lips in anticipatory joy , and urged his tired legs to greater speed that he might not be too late to the ship's anchorage to carry out his designs . 
All depended , of course , upon when the Kincaid departed . 
The Russian realized that nothing could be accomplished beneath the light of day . 
Darkness must shroud his approach to the ship's side , for should he be sighted by Tarzan or Lady Greystoke he would have no chance to board the vessel . 
It was well after noon when Paulvitch came to the Mosula village upon the bank of the tributary of the Ugambi . 
When Paulvitch demanded the use of a canoe the chief grumbled a surly refusal and ordered the white man from the village . 
Surrounded by angry , muttering warriors who seemed to be but waiting some slight pretext to transfix him with their menacing spears the Russian could do naught else than withdraw . 
A dozen fighting men led him to the edge of the clearing , leaving him with a warning never to show himself again in the vicinity of their village . 
Stifling his anger , Paulvitch slunk into the jungle but once beyond the sight of the warriors he paused and listened intently . 
Nor had the Russian long to wait before one of the awkward little skiffs which the Mosula fashion came in sight upon the bosom of the river . 
A youth was paddling lazily out into midstream from a point beside the village . 
When he reached the channel he allowed the sluggish current to carry him slowly along while he lolled indolently in the bottom of his crude canoe . 
All ignorant of the unseen enemy upon the river's bank the lad floated slowly down the stream while Paulvitch followed along the jungle path a few yards behind him . 
A mile below the village the black boy dipped his paddle into the water and forced his skiff toward the bank . 
And , snake like , amidst the concealing foliage lay the malevolent Russ . 
Only direct necessity could drive Alexander Paulvitch to personal conflict but it was indeed dire necessity which goaded him on to action now . 
There was time , just time enough , to reach the Kincaid by nightfall . 
Would the black fool never quit his skiff ? Paulvitch squirmed and fidgeted . 
The lad yawned and stretched . 
With exasperating deliberateness he examined the arrows in his quiver , tested his bow , and looked to the edge upon the hunting knife in his loin cloth . 
Paulvitch half rose , and with tensed muscles stood glaring down upon his unsuspecting victim . 
The boy's lids drooped and closed . 
Presently his breast rose and fell to the deep breaths of slumber . 
The time had come ! The Russian crept stealthily nearer . 
A branch rustled beneath his weight and the lad stirred in his sleep . 
Paulvitch drew his revolver and levelled it upon the black . 
For a moment he remained in rigid quiet , and then again the youth relapsed into undisturbed slumber . 
The white man crept closer . 
He could not chance a shot until there was no risk of missing . 
Presently he leaned close above the Mosula . 
The cold steel of the revolver in his hand insinuated itself nearer and nearer to the breast of the unconscious lad . 
Now it stopped but a few inches above the strongly beating heart . 
But the pressure of a finger lay between the harmless boy and eternity . 
The soft bloom of youth still lay upon the brown cheek , a smile half parted the beardless lips . 
Did any qualm of conscience point its disquieting finger of reproach at the murderer ? To all such was Alexander Paulvitch immune . 
A sneer curled his bearded lip as his forefinger closed upon the trigger of his revolver . 
There was a loud report . 
A little hole appeared above the heart of the sleeping boy , a little hole about which lay a blackened rim of powder burned flesh . 
The youthful body half rose to a sitting posture . 
The killer dropped quickly into the skiff beside the killed . 
Ruthless hands seized the dead boy heartlessly and raised him to the low gunwale . 
Casting off the tie rope and seizing the paddle , Paulvitch bent feverishly to the task of driving the skiff downward toward the Ugambi at top speed . 
Night had fallen when the prow of the bloodstained craft shot out into the current of the larger stream . 
Constantly the Russian strained his eyes into the increasing darkness ahead in vain endeavour to pierce the black shadows which lay between him and the anchorage of the Kincaid . 
Alexander Paulvitch could scarce restrain an exclamation of triumph . 
The Kincaid had not departed ! Life and vengeance were not to elude him after all . 
He stopped paddling the moment that he descried the gleaming beacon of hope ahead of him . 
Silently he drifted down the muddy waters of the Ugambi , occasionally dipping his paddle's blade gently into the current that he might guide his primitive craft to the vessel's side . 
As he approached more closely the dark bulk of a ship loomed before him out of the blackness of the night . 
No sound came from the vessel's deck . 
Paulvitch drifted , unseen , close to the Kincaid's side . 
Only the momentary scraping of his canoe's nose against the ship's planking broke the silence of the night . 
Trembling with nervous excitement , the Russian remained motionless for several minutes but there was no sound from the great bulk above him to indicate that his coming had been noted . 
Stealthily he worked his craft forward until the stays of the bowsprit were directly above him . 
He could just reach them . 
To make his canoe fast there was the work of but a minute or two , and then the man raised himself quietly aloft . 
A moment later he dropped softly to the deck . 
No sound or sign of watch appeared upon the ship's deck . 
Paulvitch crept stealthily toward the forecastle . 
Paulvitch knew the man well , a surly cut throat upon whom he figured strongly in the carrying out of the plan which he had conceived . 
Gently the Russ lowered himself through the aperture to the rounds of the ladder which led into the forecastle . 
There he turned and whispered the reader's name . 
The devil ! he ejaculated . 
Where did you come from ? We all thought you were done for and gone where you ought to have gone a long time ago . 
His lordship will be mighty pleased to see you . 
Paulvitch crossed to the sailor's side . 
A friendly smile lay on the Russian's lips , and his right hand was extended in greeting , as though the other might have been a dear and long lost friend . 
The sailor ignored the proffered hand , nor did he return the other's smile . 
I've come to help you , explained Paulvitch . 
I'm going to help you get rid of the Englishman and his beasts then there will be no danger from the law when we get back to civilization . 
We can sneak in on them while they sleep that is Greystoke , his wife , and that black scoundrel , Mugambi . 
Afterward it will be a simple matter to clean up the beasts . 
Where are they ? They're below , replied the sailor but just let me tell you something , Paulvitch . 
You haven't got no more show to turn us men against the Englishman than nothing . 
We had all we wanted of you and that other beast . 
He's dead , an' if I don't miss my guess a whole lot you'll be dead too before long . 
You two treated us like dogs , and if you think we got any love for you you better forget it . 
You mean to say that you're going to turn against me ? demanded Paulvitch . 
The other nodded , and then after a momentary pause , during which an idea seemed to have occurred to him , he spoke again . 
Unless , he said , you can make it worth my while to let you go before the Englishman finds you here . 
You wouldn't turn me away in the jungle , would you ? asked Paulvitch . 
Why , I'd die there in a week . 
You'd have a chance there , replied the sailor . 
Here , you wouldn't have no chance . 
Why , if I woke up my maties here they'd probably cut your heart out of you before the Englishman got a chance at you at all . 
It's mighty lucky for you that I'm the one to be awake now and not none of the others . 
You're crazy , cried Paulvitch . 
He's told us as much , for he says that there wasn't nobody to blame but you and Rokoff the rest of us was just tools . 
See ? For half an hour the Russian pleaded or threatened as the mood seized him . 
Sometimes he was upon the verge of tears , and again he was promising his listener either fabulous rewards or condign punishment but the other was obdurate . 
And you'll have to make up your mind mighty quick , growled the man , for I want to turn in . 
Come now , choose his lordship or the jungle ? You'll be sorry for this , grumbled the Russian . 
Shut up , admonished the sailor . 
If you get funny I may change my mind , and keep you here after all . 
Is anyone sleeping in my cabin ? he asked . 
The sailor shook his head . 
No , he said Lord and Lady Greystoke have the captain's cabin . 
The mate is in his own , and there ain't no one in yours . 
I'll go and get my valuables for you , said Paulvitch . 
I'll go with you to see that you don't try any funny business , said the sailor , and he followed the Russian up the ladder to the deck . 
At the cabin entrance the sailor halted to watch , permitting Paulvitch to go alone to his cabin . 
And presently as he thought there recurred to his memory the little black box which lay hidden in a secret receptacle beneath a false top upon the table where his hand rested . 
The Russian's face lighted to a sinister gleam of malevolent satisfaction as he stooped and felt beneath the table top . 
A moment later he withdrew from its hiding place the thing he sought . 
The lifted cover revealed two compartments within the box . 
In one was a mechanism which resembled the works of a small clock . 
There also was a little battery of two dry cells . 
Whatever lay within the second compartment was not visible , for a cover lay over it and appeared to be sealed in place by asphaltum . 
In the bottom of the box , beside the clockwork , lay a key , and this Paulvitch now withdrew and fitted to the winding stem . 
Gently he turned the key , muffling the noise of the winding operation by throwing a couple of articles of clothing over the box . 
All the time he listened intently for any sound which might indicate that the sailor or another were approaching his cabin but none came to interrupt his work . 
A sinister smile curled the man's bearded lips as he gathered up his valuables , blew out the lamp , and stepped from his cabin to the side of the waiting sailor . 
Here are my things , said the Russian now let me go . 
I'll first take a look in your pockets , replied the sailor . 
You might have overlooked some trifling thing that won't be of no use to you in the jungle , but that'll come in mighty handy to a poor sailorman in London . 
Ah ! just as I feared , he ejaculated an instant later as he withdrew a roll of bank notes from Paulvitch's inside coat pocket . 
Chapter The Last of the Kincaid Shortly after the break of day Tarzan was on deck noting the condition of the weather . 
Every condition seemed ideal for the commencement of the return voyage to Jungle Island , where the beasts were to be left . 
And then home ! The ape man aroused the mate and gave instructions that the Kincaid sail at the earliest possible moment . 
At last the Kincaid slipped down the Ugambi and ran out upon the shimmering waters of the Atlantic . 
Tarzan and Jane Clayton watched the verdure clad shore line receding in the ship's wake , and for once the ape man left his native soil without one single pang of regret . 
Yet the vessel made progress even when she seemed to be standing still , and presently the low hills of Jungle Island became distinctly visible upon the western horizon ahead . 
When those two arms touched one another the ticking of the mechanism would cease for ever . 
Jane and Tarzan stood upon the bridge looking out toward Jungle Island . 
The men were forward , also watching the land grow upward out of the ocean . 
The beasts had sought the shade of the galley , where they were curled up in sleep . 
All was quiet and peace upon the ship , and upon the waters . 
Instantly pandemonium broke loose upon the deck . 
The apes of Akut , terrified by the sound , ran hither and thither , snarling and growling . 
Sheeta leaped here and there , screaming out his startled terror in hideous cries that sent the ice of fear straight to the hearts of the Kincaid's crew . 
Mugambi , too , was trembling . 
Only Tarzan of the Apes and his wife retained their composure . 
He guessed the truth but discretion sealed his lips . 
No , the man decided that he would keep this knowledge to himself . 
Fifteen minutes after the explosion great , black clouds of smoke were rising from the hold of the doomed vessel . 
The flames had reached the engine room , and the ship no longer moved toward the shore . 
Her fate was as certain as though the waters had already closed above her charred and smoking remains . 
It is useless to remain aboard her longer , remarked the ape man to the mate . 
Nor was there other alternative . 
Two boats were lowered , and as there was no sea the landing was made with infinite ease . 
A half sad smile curved the lips of the ape man as he watched them go . 
Good bye , my friends , he murmured . 
You have been good and faithful allies , and I shall miss you . 
They will return , will they not , dear ? asked Jane Clayton , at his side . 
They may and they may not , replied the ape man . 
They have been ill at ease since they were forced to accept so many human beings into their confidence . 
Mugambi and I alone affected them less , for he and I are , at best , but half human . 
You , however , and the members of the crew are far too civilized for my beasts it is you whom they are fleeing . 
Doubtless they feel that they cannot trust themselves in the close vicinity of so much perfectly good food without the danger that they may help themselves to a mouthful some time by mistake . 
I think they are just trying to escape you , she retorted . 
You are always making them stop something which they see no reason why they should not do . 
Like little children they are doubtless delighted at this opportunity to flee from the zone of parental discipline . 
If they come back , though , I hope they won't come by night . 
Or come hungry , eh ? laughed Tarzan . 
For two hours after landing the little party stood watching the burning ship which they had abandoned . 
Then there came faintly to them from across the water the sound of a second explosion . 
The Kincaid settled rapidly almost immediatel thereafter , and sank within a few minutes . 
Tarzan knew the nearest water , and to this he immediately led the party . 
For two weeks the party divided the time amongst the various duties which had been allotted to each . 
A daylight watch was maintained from sunrise to sunset upon a bluff near the camp a jutting shoulder of rock which overlooked the sea . 
But never a speck upon the horizon that might be sail or smoke rewarded the tired eyes that in their endless , hopeless vigil strained daily out across the vast expanse of ocean . 
It was Tarzan who suggested , finally , that they attempt to construct a vessel that would bear them back to the mainland . 
He alone could show them how to fashion rude tools , and when the idea had taken root in the minds of the men they were eager to commence their labours . 
Sometimes Mugambi spelled him at the hunting but the black's spear and arrows were never so sure of results as the rope and knife of the ape man . 
Finally the men shirked their work , going off into the jungle by twos to explore and to hunt . 
All this time the camp had had no sight of Sheeta , or Akut and the other great apes , though Tarzan had sometimes met them in the jungle as he hunted . 
And as matters tended from bad to worse in the camp of the castaways upon the east coast of Jungle Island , another camp came into being upon the north coast . 
It was they who had instigated the mutiny that they might seize and divide the catch of pearls which constituted the wealth of the Cowrie's cargo . 
Gust , after his own peculiar habit , had found means to delegate to the others the actual taking of life . 
Not that Gust entertained any scruples on the subject , other than those which induced in him a rare regard for his own personal safety . 
There is always a certain element of risk to the assassin , for victims of deadly assault are seldom prone to die quietly and considerately . 
There is always a certain element of risk to go so far as to dispute the issue with the murderer . 
It was this chance of dispute which Gust preferred to forgo . 
But now that the work was done the Swede aspired to the position of highest command among the mutineers . 
He had no love for authority , and certainly not the slightest intention of submitting to the domination of an ordinary Swede sailor . 
The seeds of discontent were , therefore , already planted in the camp of the mutineers of the Cowrie at the north edge of Jungle Island . 
And now Gust did not wish to venture out to sea again . 
There was no telling , he insisted , but that the ship they had seen was actually searching for them . 
Kai Shang pointed out that such could not be the case since it was impossible for any human being other than themselves to have knowledge of what had transpired aboard the Cowrie . 
But Gust was not to be persuaded . 
In his wicked heart he nursed a scheme whereby he might increase his share of the booty by something like one hundred per cent . 
Some day there would come a moment when Kai Shang , Momulla , and three or four of the others would be absent from camp , exploring or hunting . 
The Swede racked his brain for some plan whereby he might successfully lure from the sight of the anchored ship those whom he had determined to abandon . 
One day Kai Shang spoke secretly with Momulla the Maori , pouring into the brown ear of his companion the suspicions which he harboured concerning the Swede . 
Momulla was for going immediately and running a long knife through the heart of the traitor . 
But he dared not let Momulla slay the Swede , upon whom they depended to guide them to their destination . 
Momulla scoffed at the fears of his fellow , pointing out that as no one aboard any warship knew of their mutiny there could be no reason why they should be suspected . 
Ah ! exclaimed Gust , there is where you are wrong . 
There is where you are lucky that you have an educated man like me to tell you what to do . 
You are an ignorant savage , Momulla , and so you know nothing of wireless . 
The Maori leaped to his feet and laid his hand upon the hilt of his knife . 
I am no savage , he shouted . 
I was only joking , the Swede hastened to explain . 
We are old friends , Momulla we cannot afford to quarrel , at least not while old Kai Shang is plotting to steal all the pearls from us . 
If he could find a man to navigate the Cowrie he would leave us in a minute . 
All his talk about getting away from here is just because he has some scheme in his head to get rid of us . 
But the wireless , asked Momulla . 
What has the wireless to do with our remaining here ? Oh yes , replied Gust , scratching his head . 
He was wondering if the Maori were really so ignorant as to believe the preposterous lie he was about to unload upon him . 
Oh yes ! You see every warship is equipped with what they call a wireless apparatus . 
It lets them talk to other ships hundreds of miles away , and it lets them listen to all that is said on these other ships . 
Of course they might not have learned the name of the ship , but they heard enough to know that the crew of some ship was mutinying and killin' her officers . 
So you see they'll be waiting to search every ship they sight for a long time to come , and they may not be far away now . 
Momulla sat for some time in silence , eyeing Gust . 
You are a great liar , he said . 
Go and ask Kai Shang if there is not a wireless , replied Gust . 
He will tell you that there is such a thing and that vessels can talk to one another across hundreds of miles of water . 
If we only had someone else who could navigate a ship ! wailed Kai Shang . 
That afternoon Momulla went hunting with two other Maoris . 
They hunted toward the south , and had not gone far from camp when they were surprised by the sound of voices ahead of them in the jungle . 
But Momulla was even more curious than he was superstitious , and so he quelled his natural desire to flee from the supernatural . 
One was Schneider , mate of the Kincaid , and the other was a seaman named Schmidt . 
I think we can do it , Schmidt , Schneider was saying . 
A good canoe wouldn't be hard to build , and three of us could paddle it to the mainland in a day if the wind was right and the sea reasonably calm . 
There ain't no use waiting for the men to build a big enough boat to take the whole party , for they're sore now and sick of working like slaves all day long . 
It ain't none of our business anyway to save the Englishman . 
It would be a shame to leave a nice lookin' piece like she is in such a Gott forsaken hole as this here island . 
Schmidt looked up and grinned . 
So that's how she's blowin' , is it ? he asked . 
I'll just whack up with the two men that helps me . 
I'll take half an' they can divide the other half you an' whoever the other bloke is . 
I'm sick of this place , an' the sooner I get out of it the better I'll like it . 
What do you say ? Suits me , replied Schmidt . 
Momulla the Maori pricked up his ears . 
He rose to his feet and stepped into the clearing . 
Schneider and his companion started as nervously as though a ghost had risen before them . 
Schneider reached for his revolver . 
Momulla raised his right hand , palm forward , as a sign of his pacific intentions . 
I am a friend , he said . 
I heard you but do not fear that I will reveal what you have said . 
I can help you , and you can help me . 
You can navigate a ship , but you have no ship . 
We have a ship , but no one to navigate it . 
You can take the woman of whom you speak , and we will ask no questions either . 
Is it a bargain ? Schneider desired more information , and got as much as Momulla thought best to give him . 
Then the Maori suggested that they speak with Kai Shang . 
The two members of the Kincaid's company followed Momulla and his fellows to a point in the jungle close by the camp of the mutineers . 
Schneider and Schmidt were virtually prisoners , though they did not know it . 
Presently Momulla returned with Kai Shang , to whom he had briefly narrated the details of the stroke of good fortune that had come to them . 
When Schneider and Schmidt left them and set out in the direction of their own camp , it was with feelings of far greater relief than they had experienced in many a day . 
Now at last they saw a feasible plan for leaving the island upon a seaworthy craft . 
As Kai Shang and Momulla entered their camp , it was with a realization that they no longer needed Gust . 
As the two crossed toward Gust's tent the Maori felt the edge of his long knife with one grimy , calloused thumb . 
The Swede would have felt far from comfortable could he have seen this significant action , or read what was passing amid the convolutions of the brown man's cruel brain . 
Now it happened that Gust was at that moment in the tent occupied by the cook , and this tent stood but a few feet from his own . 
So that he heard the approach of Kai Shang and Momulla , though he did not , of course , dream that it had any special significance for him . 
The Swede's eyes opened wide , and a funny little sensation assailed the roots of his hairs . 
Also he turned almost white beneath his tan . 
Quite precipitately he left the cook's tent . 
He was not one who required a detailed exposition of intentions that were quite all too obvious . 
As surely as though he had heard them plotting , he knew that Kai Shang and Momulla had come to take his life . 
Without a pause Gust darted across the beach and into the jungle . 
He was afraid of the jungle uncanny noises that were indeed frightful came forth from its recesses the tangled mazes of the mysterious country back of the beach . 
But if Gust was afraid of the jungle he was far more afraid of Kai Shang and Momulla . 
He had seen Kai Shang garrotte a man at Pai sha in a dark alleyway back of Loo Kotai's place . 
He feared the rope , therefore , more than he did the knife of the Maori but he feared them both too much to remain within reach of either . 
Therefore he chose the pitiless jungle . 
Much of the work he and Mugambi had done with their own hands in addition to furnishing the camp with meat . 
Schneider , the mate , had been doing considerable grumbling , and had at last openly deserted the work and gone off into the jungle with Schmidt to hunt . 
Upon the following day , however , Schneider affected a feeling of remorse for his action , and set to work with a will upon the skiff . 
The direction in which Schneider had reported seeing the deer was toward the south west , and to that point the ape man swung easily through the tangled verdure of the forest . 
And as he went there approached from the north a half dozen ill featured men who went stealthily through the jungle as go men bent upon the commission of a wicked act . 
They thought that they travelled unseen but behind them , almost from the moment they quitted their own camp , a tall man crept upon their trail . 
In the man's eyes were hate and fear , and a great curiosity . 
Why went Kai Shang and Momulla and the others thus stealthily toward the south ? What did they expect to find there ? Gust shook his low browed head in perplexity . 
He would follow them and learn their plans , and then if he could thwart them he would that went without question . 
Presently the party he trailed came to a halt . 
Its members concealed themselves in the foliage bordering the game trail along which they had come . 
He had not long to wait before he saw a strange white man approach carefully along the trail from the south . 
At sight of the newcomer Momulla and Kai Shang arose from their places of concealment and greeted him . 
Gust could not overhear what passed between them . 
Then the man returned in the direction from which he had come . 
Nearing his camp he circled to the opposite side of it , and presently came running in breathlessly . 
Excitedly he hastened to Mugambi . 
Those apes of yours have caught Schmidt and will kill him if we do not hasten to his aid . 
You alone can call them off . 
Take Jones and Sullivan you may need help and get to him as quick as you can . 
Follow the game trail south for about a mile . 
I am too spent with running to go back with you , and the mate of the Kincaid threw himself upon the ground , panting as though he was almost done for . 
He had been left to guard the two women . 
He did not know what to do , and then Jane Clayton , who had heard Schneider's story , added her pleas to those of the mate . 
Do not delay , she urged . 
We shall be all right here . 
Mr. Schneider will remain with us . 
The poor fellow must be saved . 
Schmidt , who lay hidden in a bush at the edge of the camp , grinned . 
Mugambi , heeding the commands of his mistress , though still doubtful of the wisdom of his action , started off toward the south , with Jones and Sullivan at his heels . 
Schneider saw the Chinaman , and motioned to him that the coast was clear . 
Jane Clayton and the Mosula woman were sitting at the opening of the former's tent , their backs toward the approaching ruffians . 
The first intimation that either had of the presence of strangers in camp was the sudden appearance of a half dozen ragged villains about them . 
Come ! said Kai Shang , motioning that the two arise and follow him . 
Jane Clayton sprang to her feet and looked about for Schneider , only to see him standing behind the newcomers , a grin upon his face . 
At his side stood Schmidt . 
Instantly she saw that she had been made the victim of a plot . 
What is the meaning of this ? she asked , addressing the mate . 
It means that we have found a ship and that we can now escape from Jungle Island , replied the man . 
Why did you send Mugambi and the others into the jungle ? she inquired . 
They are not coming with us only you and I , and the Mosula woman . 
Come ! repeated Kai Shang , and seized Jane Clayton's wrist . 
One of the Maoris grasped the black woman by the arm , and when she would have screamed struck her across the mouth . 
Mugambi raced through the jungle toward the south . 
Jones and Sullivan trailed far behind . 
For a mile he continued upon his way to the relief of Schmidt , but no signs saw he of the missing man or of any of the apes of Akut . 
At last he halted and called aloud the summons which he and Tarzan had used to hail the great anthropoids . 
Jones and Sullivan came up with the black warrior as the latter stood voicing his weird call . 
For another half mile the black searched , calling occasionally . 
Finally the truth flashed upon him , and then , like a frightened deer , he wheeled and dashed back toward camp . 
Arriving there , it was but a moment before full confirmation of his fears was impressed upon him . 
Lady Greystoke and the Mosula woman were gone . 
So , likewise , was Schneider . 
His keen eyes detected at once that something was radically wrong , and when he had heard Mugambi's story his jaws clicked angrily together as he knitted his brows in thought . 
Schneider would not have committed such an act unless he had been reasonably sure that there was a way by which he could quit Jungle Island with his prisoners . 
But why had he taken the black woman as well ? There must have been others , one of whom wanted the dusky female . 
Come , said Tarzan , there is but one thing to do now , and that is to follow the trail . 
As he finished speaking a tall , ungainly figure emerged from the jungle north of the camp . 
He came straight toward the four men . 
He came directly to the point . 
Your women were stolen , he said . 
If you want ever to see them again , come quickly and follow me . 
If we do not hurry the Cowrie will be standing out to sea by the time we reach her anchorage . 
Who are you ? asked Tarzan . 
What do you know of the theft of my wife and the black woman ? I heard Kai Shang and Momulla the Maori plot with two men of your camp . 
They had chased me from our camp , and would have killed me . 
Now I will get even with them . 
Come ! Gust led the four men of the Kincaid's camp at a rapid trot through the jungle toward the north . 
Would they come to the sea in time ? But a few more minutes would answer the question . 
What were they to do ? Tarzan's broad chest rose and fell to the force of his pent emotions . 
In silence he stood watching the vessel . 
He saw it turn toward the east and finally disappear around a headland on its way he knew not whither . 
Then he dropped upon his haunches and buried his face in his hands . 
It was after dark that the five men returned to the camp on the east shore . 
The night was hot and sultry . 
No slightest breeze ruffled the foliage of the trees or rippled the mirror like surface of the ocean . 
Only a gentle swell rolled softly in upon the beach . 
Never had Tarzan seen the great Atlantic so ominously at peace . 
There was a familiar note in the weird cry , and almost mechanically Tarzan turned his head and answered . 
A moment later the tawny figure of Sheeta slunk out into the half light of the beach . 
There was no moon , but the sky was brilliant with stars . 
Silently the savage brute came to the side of the man . 
What was that ? He strained his eyes into the night . 
Then he turned and called aloud to the men smoking upon their blankets in the camp . 
They came running to his side but Gust hesitated when he saw the nature of Tarzan's companion . 
A light ! A ship's light ! It must be the Cowrie . 
And then with an exclamation of renewed hope , We can reach them ! The skiff will carry us easily . 
They are well armed , he warned . 
We could not take the ship just five of us . 
There are six now , replied Tarzan , pointing to Sheeta , and we can have more still in a half hour . 
Sheeta is the equivalent of twenty men , and the few others I can bring will add full a hundred to our fighting strength . 
You do not know them . 
Presently from the jungle came an answering cry , and then another and another . 
By dint of Herculean efforts they had managed to get it to the water's edge . 
These were hastily requisitioned , and by the time Akut and his followers came down to the water all was ready for embarkation . 
Once again the hideous crew entered the service of their master , and without question took up their places in the skiff . 
A sleepy sailor kept a poor vigil upon the Cowrie's deck , while in the cabin below Schneider paced up and down arguing with Jane Clayton . 
The Mosula woman kneeled behind her , while Schneider paced up and down before the door , threatening and pleading and promising , but all to no avail . 
Presently from the deck above came a shout of warning and a shot . 
For an instant Jane Clayton relaxed her vigilance , and turned her eyes toward the cabin skylight . 
Simultaneously Schneider was upon her . 
Instantly the fellow sprang to his feet with a cry and levelled his revolver at the intruder . 
It was his cry and the subsequent report of the revolver which threw Jane Clayton off her guard . 
Upon deck the quiet of fancied security soon gave place to the wildest pandemonium . 
The crew of the Cowrie rushed above armed with revolvers , cutlasses , and the long knives that many of them habitually wore but the alarm had come too late . 
Already the beasts of Tarzan were upon the ship's deck , with Tarzan and the two men of the Kincaid's crew . 
In the face of the frightful beasts the courage of the mutineers wavered and broke . 
Those with revolvers fired a few scattering shots and then raced for some place of supposed safety . 
Into the shrouds went some but the apes of Akut were more at home there than they . 
Screaming with terror the Maoris were dragged from their lofty perches . 
The beasts , uncontrolled by Tarzan who had gone in search of Jane , loosed in the full fury of their savage natures upon the unhappy wretches who fell into their clutches . 
Sheeta , in the meanwhile , had felt his great fangs sink into but a singular jugular . 
For a moment he mauled the corpse , and then he spied Kai Shang darting down the companionway toward his cabin . 
With a shrill scream Sheeta was after him a scream which awoke an almost equally uncanny cry in the throat of the terror stricken Chinaman . 
But Kai Shang reached his cabin a fraction of a second ahead of the panther , and leaping within slammed the door just too late . 
Sheeta's great body hurtled against it before the catch engaged , and a moment later Kai Shang was gibbering and shrieking in the back of an upper berth . 
Lightly Sheeta sprang after his victim , and presently the wicked days of Kai Shang of Fachan were ended , and Sheeta was gorging himself upon tough and stringy flesh . 
Silently he leaped across the cabin . 
Schneider felt sinewy fingers at his throat . 
He turned his head to see who had attacked him , and his eyes went wide when he saw the face of the ape man close above his own . 
Grimly the fingers tightened upon the mate's throat . 
He tried to scream , to plead , but no sound came forth . 
His eyes protruded as he struggled for freedom , for breath , for life . 
Jane Clayton seized her husband's hands and tried to drag them from the throat of the dying man but Tarzan only shook his head . 
Not again , he said quietly . 
Before have I permitted scoundrels to live , only to suffer and to have you suffer for my mercy . 
With a gesture of disgust Tarzan tossed the corpse aside . 
Then he returned to the deck , followed by Jane and the Mosula woman . 
The battle there was over . 
Schmidt and Momulla and two others alone remained alive of all the company of the Cowrie , for they had found sanctuary in the forecastle . 
Tarzan brought forth the men who had hidden in the forecastle , and without promises of immunity from punishment forced them to help work the vessel the only alternative was immediate death . 
It was three days later that the Cowrie fell in with H. M. sloop of war Shorewater , through whose wireless Lord Greystoke soon got in communication with London . 
Thus he learned that which filled his and his wife's heart with joy and thanksgiving little Jack was safe at Lord Greystoke's town house . 
It was not until they reached London that they learned the details of the remarkable chain of circumstances that had preserved the infant unharmed . 
Through her he had arranged for the substitution of another infant , knowing full well that never until it was too late would Rokoff suspect the trick that had been played upon him . 
It was a happy family party that were reunited in Greystoke House the day that Lord Greystoke and his lady landed upon English soil from the deck of the Shorewater . 
Accompanying them were Mugambi and the Mosula woman whom he had found in the bottom of the canoe that night upon the bank of the little tributary of the Ugambi . 
The woman had preferred to cling to her new lord and master rather than return to the marriage she had tried to escape . 
Possibly we shall see them all there amid the savage romance of the grim jungle and the great plains where Tarzan of the Apes loves best to be . 
