The young man brooded continually over his fate . 
This officer was a cold , taciturn man , inspiring little love in those directly beneath him , yet respected and feared by the black soldiers of his little command . 
The senseless hatred of the lieutenant grew at last into a form of mania . 
The captain's natural taciturnity he distorted into a studied attempt to insult him because of his past shortcomings . 
He imagined that his superior held him in contempt , and so he chafed and fumed inwardly until one evening his madness became suddenly homicidal . 
He fingered the butt of the revolver at his hip , his eyes narrowed and his brows contracted . 
You have insulted me for the last time ! he cried , springing to his feet . 
I am an officer and a gentleman , and I shall put up with it no longer without an accounting from you , you pig . 
The captain , an expression of surprise upon his features , turned toward his junior . 
He had seen men before with the jungle madness upon them the madness of solitude and unrestrained brooding , and perhaps a touch of fever . 
He rose and extended his hand to lay it upon the other's shoulder . 
Quiet words of counsel were upon his lips but they were never spoken . 
Werper construed his superior's action into an attempt to close with him . 
His revolver was on a level with the captain's heart , and the latter had taken but a step when Werper pulled the trigger . 
He heard excited exclamations from the quarters of the soldiers and he heard men running in his direction . 
Werper had no desire to die . 
Never before had he so yearned for life as in this moment that he had so effectively forfeited his right to live . 
The men were nearing him . 
In despair , he turned and fled from the oncoming soldiery . 
Across the compound he ran , his revolver still clutched tightly in his hand . 
At the gates a sentry halted him . 
Werper did not pause to parley or to exert the influence of his commission he merely raised his weapon and shot down the innocent black . 
All that night Werper fled farther and farther into the heart of the wilderness . 
Dawn came at last , but still the man plodded on . 
All sense of hunger and fatigue were lost in the terrors of contemplated capture . 
He could think only of escape . 
He dared not pause to rest or eat until there was no further danger from pursuit , and so he staggered on until at last he fell and could rise no more . 
How long he had fled he did not know , or try to know . 
When he could flee no longer the knowledge that he had reached his limit was hidden from him in the unconsciousness of utter exhaustion . 
And thus it was that Achmet Zek , the Arab , found him . 
Achmet's followers were for running a spear through the body of their hereditary enemy but Achmet would have it otherwise . 
First he would question the Belgian . 
It were easier to question a man first and kill him afterward , than kill him first and then question him . 
So he had Lieutenant Albert Werper carried to his own tent , and there slaves administered wine and food in small quantities until at last the prisoner regained consciousness . 
As he opened his eyes he saw the faces of strange black men about him , and just outside the tent the figure of an Arab . 
Nowhere was the uniform of his soldiers to be seen . 
The Arab turned and seeing the open eyes of the prisoner upon him , entered the tent . 
I am Achmet Zek , he announced . 
Who are you , and what were you doing in my country ? Where are your soldiers ? Achmet Zek ! Werper's eyes went wide , and his heart sank . 
He was in the clutches of the most notorious of cut throats a hater of all Europeans , especially those who wore the uniform of Belgium . 
For years the military forces of Belgian Congo had waged a fruitless war upon this man and his followers a war in which quarter had never been asked nor expected by either side . 
But presently in the very hatred of the man for Belgians , Werper saw a faint ray of hope for himself . 
He , too , was an outcast and an outlaw . 
So far , at least , they possessed a common interest , and Werper decided to play upon it for all that it might yield . 
I have heard of you , he replied , and was searching for you . 
My people have turned against me . 
Even now their soldiers are searching for me , to kill me . 
I knew that you would protect me from them , for you , too , hate them . 
In return I will take service with you . 
I am a trained soldier . 
I can fight , and your enemies are my enemies . 
Achmet Zek eyed the European in silence . 
In his mind he revolved many thoughts , chief among which was that the unbeliever lied . 
Achmet Zek scowled and Werper's heart sank but Werper did not know Achmet Zek , who was quite apt to scowl where another would smile , and smile where another would scowl . 
And if you have lied to me , said Achmet Zek , I will kill you at any time . 
What return , other than your life , do you expect for your services ? My keep only , at first , replied Werper . 
Later , if I am worth more , we can easily reach an understanding . 
Werper's only desire at the moment was to preserve his life . 
And so the agreement was reached and Lieutenant Albert Werper became a member of the ivory and slave raiding band of the notorious Achmet Zek . 
For months the renegade Belgian rode with the savage raider . 
He fought with a savage abandon , and a vicious cruelty fully equal to that of his fellow desperadoes . 
With the aid of a European , however , the thing might be easily accomplished . 
You have heard of the man men call Tarzan ? he asked . 
I have heard of him but I do not know him . 
But for him we might carry on our 'trading' in safety and with great profit , continued the Arab . 
Werper withdrew a cigaret from a jeweled case and lighted it . 
And you have a plan to make him pay ? he asked . 
He has a wife , replied Achmet Zek , whom men say is very beautiful . 
She would bring a great price farther north , if we found it too difficult to collect ransom money from this Tarzan . 
Werper bent his head in thought . 
Achmet Zek stood awaiting his reply . 
What good remained in Albert Werper revolted at the thought of selling a white woman into the slavery and degradation of a Moslem harem . 
He looked up at Achmet Zek . 
He saw the Arab's eyes narrow , and he guessed that the other had sensed his antagonism to the plan . 
What was this woman to him , anyway ? She was a European , doubtless , a member of organized society . 
The hand of every white man was against him . 
She was his natural enemy , and if he refused to lend himself to her undoing , Achmet Zek would have him killed . 
You hesitate , murmured the Arab . 
I was but weighing the chances of success , lied Werper , and my reward . 
As a European I can gain admittance to their home and table . 
You have no other with you who could do so much . 
The risk will be great . 
I should be well paid , Achmet Zek . 
A smile of relief passed over the raider's face . 
Well said , Werper , and Achmet Zek slapped his lieutenant upon the shoulder . 
You should be well paid and you shall . 
Both were tall and bearded , and the exposure to sun and wind had given an almost Arab hue to the European's complexion . 
In every detail of dress , too , he copied the fashions of his chief , so that outwardly he was as much an Arab as the other . 
It was late when he arose and retired to his own tent . 
The following day Werper spent in overhauling his Belgian uniform , removing from it every vestige of evidence that might indicate its military purposes . 
At the head of this party Werper set out from camp . 
He reined in his horse and watched the little party as it emerged from a concealing swale . 
A half hour later he was mounting the steps leading to the veranda of his bungalow , and introducing M. Jules Frecoult to Lady Greystoke . 
I was completely lost , M. Frecoult was explaining . 
They finally deserted us two days since . 
I am very fortunate indeed to have stumbled so providentially upon succor . 
I do not know what I should have done , had I not found you . 
A runner had arrived at the bungalow with the weekly mail , and Lord Greystoke had spent the afternoon in his study reading and answering letters . 
At dinner he seemed distraught , and early in the evening he excused himself and retired , Lady Greystoke following him very soon after . 
Here he listened , and not without result , for almost the first words he overheard filled him with excitement . 
Lady Greystoke was speaking as Werper came within hearing . 
I would rather live in poverty always than to have you risk the hideous dangers of Opar . 
You need have no fear , replied Tarzan , laughing . 
I am pretty well able to take care of myself , and were I not , the Waziri who will accompany me will see that no harm befalls me . 
They ran away from Opar once , and left you to your fate , she reminded him . 
They will not do it again , he answered . 
They were very much ashamed of themselves , and were coming back when I met them . 
But there must be some other way , insisted the woman . 
There is no other way half so easy to obtain another fortune , as to go to the treasure vaults of Opar and bring it away , he replied . 
The finality in his tone seemed to assure Lady Greystoke that further argument was futile , and so she abandoned the subject . 
The Belgian consumed two days in completing his preparations , but finally got away with his safari , accompanied by a single Waziri guide whom Lord Greystoke had loaned him . 
The party made but a single short march when Werper simulated illness , and announced his intention of remaining where he was until he had fully recovered . 
Werper called his head man to him , after writing a long letter to Achmet Zek . 
This letter he handed to the head man . 
Send a runner at once to Achmet Zek with this , he instructed the head man . 
Remain here in camp awaiting further instructions from him or from me . 
If any come from the bungalow of the Englishman , tell them that I am very ill within my tent and can see no one . 
Now , give me six porters and six askaris the strongest and bravest of the safari and I will march after the Englishman and discover where his gold is hidden . 
And as they marched , Achmet Zek rode with his entire following southward toward the Greystoke farm . 
To Tarzan of the Apes the expedition was in the nature of a holiday outing . 
His civilization was at best but an outward veneer which he gladly peeled off with his uncomfortable European clothes whenever any reasonable pretext presented itself . 
It was a woman's love which kept Tarzan even to the semblance of civilization a condition for which familiarity had bred contempt . 
That the fine things of life art , music and literature had thriven upon such enervating ideals he strenuously denied , insisting , rather , that they had endured in spite of civilization . 
Show me the fat , opulent coward , he was wont to say , who ever originated a beautiful ideal . 
And so Tarzan always came back to Nature in the spirit of a lover keeping a long deferred tryst after a period behind prison walls . 
His Waziri , at marrow , were more civilized than he . 
A single warrior stood sleepy guard beside the fire that yellow eyes out of the darkness beyond the camp made imperative . 
Here he paused and raised his face to Goro , the moon . 
And then he went on more slowly and with greater stealth and caution , for now Tarzan of the Apes was seeking a kill . 
Down to the ground he came in the utter blackness of the close set boles and the overhanging verdure of the jungle . 
He stooped from time to time and put his nose close to earth . 
He sought and found a wide game trail and at last his nostrils were rewarded with the scent of the fresh spoor of Bara , the deer . 
Tarzan's mouth watered and a low growl escaped his patrician lips . 
Sloughed from him was the last vestige of artificial caste once again he was the primeval hunter the first man the highest caste type of the human race . 
Up wind he followed the elusive spoor with a sense of perception so transcending that of ordinary man as to be inconceivable to us . 
Presently the body scent of the deer told Tarzan that his prey was close at hand . 
It sent him into the trees again into the lower terrace where he could watch the ground below and catch with ears and nose the first intimation of actual contact with his quarry . 
Nor was it long before the ape man came upon Bara standing alert at the edge of a moon bathed clearing . 
Noiselessly Tarzan crept through the trees until he was directly over the deer . 
In the ape man's right hand was the long hunting knife of his father and in his heart the blood lust of the carnivore . 
Just for an instant he poised above the unsuspecting Bara and then he launched himself downward upon the sleek back . 
The impact of his weight carried the deer to its knees and before the animal could regain its feet the knife had found its heart . 
His yellow green eyes were fastened upon Tarzan as he halted just within the clearing and glared enviously at the successful hunter , for Numa had had no luck this night . 
From the lips of the ape man broke a rumbling growl of warning . 
Numa answered but he did not advance . 
Instead he stood waving his tail gently to and fro , and presently Tarzan squatted upon his kill and cut a generous portion from a hind quarter . 
Numa eyed him with growing resentment and rage as , between mouthfuls , the ape man growled out his savage warnings . 
Now this particular lion had never before come in contact with Tarzan of the Apes and he was much mystified . 
Tarzan's retreat was no indication that he felt fear . 
Jungle life is ordered along different lines than ours and different standards prevail . 
Had Tarzan been famished he would , doubtless , have stood his ground and met the lion's charge . 
The presumption of this strange Numa must be punished ! And forthwith Tarzan set out to make life miserable for the big cat . 
Close by were many trees bearing large , hard fruits and to one of these the ape man swung with the agility of a squirrel . 
Then commenced a bombardment which brought forth earthshaking roars from Numa . 
One after another as rapidly as he could gather and hurl them , Tarzan pelted the hard fruit down upon the lion . 
He lifted his head and sniffed the slow , jungle breeze . 
Caching the remainder of the deer's hind quarter in the crotch of a tree the ape man wiped his greasy palms upon his naked thighs and swung off in pursuit of Numa . 
A broad , well beaten elephant path led into the forest from the clearing . 
Parallel to this slunk Numa , while above him Tarzan moved through the trees , the shadow of a wraith . 
The savage cat and the savage man saw Numa's quarry almost simultaneously , though both had known before it came within the vision of their eyes that it was a black man . 
The first intimation the black man had that he was in danger was the crash of twigs as Numa charged through the bushes into the game trail not twenty yards behind him . 
Then he turned to see a huge , black maned lion racing toward him and even as he turned , Numa seized him . 
Over and over rolled Numa , the lion , clawing and biting at the air , roaring and growling horribly in savage attempt to reach the thing upon its back . 
More than once was Tarzan almost brushed from his hold . 
His sunken eyes glittered and his wrinkled lips moved over toothless gums as he mumbled weird incantations to the demons of his cult . 
Gropingly backward into the past reached the fingers of memory , until at last they seized upon a faint picture , faded and yellow with the passing years . 
He saw the lion weaken from loss of blood . 
He saw the mighty limbs tremble and stagger and at last he saw the beast sink down to rise no more . 
Prophecy and Fulfillment Then Tarzan turned his attention to the man . 
He saw an old man suffering and dying , and he stooped and felt of his wounds and stanched the flow of blood . 
Who are you ? asked the old man in a trembling voice . 
I am Tarzan Tarzan of the Apes , replied the ape man and not without a greater touch of pride than he would have said , I am John Clayton , Lord Greystoke . 
The witch doctor shook convulsively and closed his eyes . 
When he opened them again there was in them a resignation to whatever horrible fate awaited him at the hands of this feared demon of the woods . 
Why do you not kill me ? he asked . 
Why should I kill you ? inquired Tarzan . 
You have not harmed me , and anyway you are already dying . 
Numa , the lion , has killed you . 
You would not kill me ? Surprise and incredulity were in the tones of the quavering old voice . 
I would save you if I could , replied Tarzan , but that cannot be done . 
Why did you think I would kill you ? For a moment the old man was silent . 
When he spoke it was evidently after some little effort to muster his courage . 
I knew you of old , he said , when you ranged the jungle in the country of Mbonga , the chief . 
I was already a witch doctor when you slew Kulonga and the others , and when you robbed our huts and our poison pot . 
Tell me before I die are you man or devil ? Tarzan laughed . 
I am a man , he said . 
The old fellow sighed and shook his head . 
You have tried to save me from Simba , he said . 
For that I shall reward you . 
I am a great witch doctor . 
Listen to me , white man ! I see bad days ahead of you . 
It is writ in my own blood which I have smeared upon my palm . 
A god greater even than you will rise up and strike you down . 
Turn back , Munango Keewati ! Turn back before it is too late . 
Danger lies ahead of you and danger lurks behind but greater is the danger before . 
I see He paused and drew a long , gasping breath . 
Then he crumpled into a little , wrinkled heap and died . 
Tarzan wondered what else he had seen . 
It was very late when the ape man re entered the boma and lay down among his black warriors . 
None had seen him go and none saw him return . 
Behind him that morning another white man pondered something he had heard during the night and very nearly did he give up his project and turn back upon his trail . 
And so Tarzan of the Apes forged steadily ahead toward Opar's ruined ramparts and behind him slunk Werper , jackal like , and only God knew what lay in store for each . 
At the edge of the desolate valley , overlooking the golden domes and minarets of Opar , Tarzan halted . 
By night he would go alone to the treasure vault , reconnoitering , for he had determined that caution should mark his every move upon this expedition . 
He saw the giant ape man swing himself nimbly up the face of the great rock . 
Tarzan was nowhere in sight . 
He found the narrow cleft leading downward into the heart of the kopje along well worn , granite steps . 
He advanced quite to the dark mouth of the tunnel into which the runway disappeared but here he halted , fearing to enter , lest he meet Tarzan returning . 
The ape man , far ahead of him , groped his way along the rocky passage , until he came to the ancient wooden door . 
No sound broke the stillness of the subterranean vault . 
There was no evidence that another had discovered the forgotten wealth since last the ape man had visited its hiding place . 
Satisfied , Tarzan turned and retraced his steps toward the summit of the kopje . 
Then Werper , slipping stealthily from his hiding place , dropped into the somber darkness of the entrance and disappeared . 
Tarzan , halting upon the kopje's edge , raised his voice in the thunderous roar of a lion . 
Twice , at regular intervals , he repeated the call , standing in attentive silence for several minutes after the echoes of the third call had died away . 
And then , from far across the valley , faintly , came an answering roar once , twice , thrice . 
Basuli , the Waziri chieftain , had heard and replied . 
In the meantime he would carry as much of the precious metal to the summit of the kopje as he could . 
Six times he had returned to the treasure chamber , and six times Werper , the Belgian , had cowered in the black shadows at the far end of the long vault . 
Fifty two more ingots passed out of the vaults , making the total of one hundred which Tarzan intended taking away with him . 
As the last of the Waziri filed from the chamber , Tarzan turned back for a last glimpse of the fabulous wealth upon which his two inroads had made no appreciable impression . 
This and much more passed through Tarzan's memory as he stood gazing at the long tiers of dull yellow metal . 
He wondered if La still ruled the temples of the ruined city whose crumbling walls rose upon the very foundations about him . 
Had she finally been forced into a union with one of her grotesque priests ? It seemed a hideous fate , indeed , for one so beautiful . 
With a shake of his head , Tarzan stepped to the flickering candle , extinguished its feeble rays and turned toward the exit . 
Behind him the spy waited for him to be gone . 
Once again , and , he thought , for the last time , he closed the massive door of the treasure room . 
In the darkness behind him Werper rose and stretched his cramped muscles . 
He stretched forth a hand and lovingly caressed a golden ingot on the nearest tier . 
He raised it from its immemorial resting place and weighed it in his hands . 
He clutched it to his bosom in an ecstasy of avarice . 
And then , in the span of a few brief seconds , the hopes of both these men were shattered . 
The Altar of the Flaming God It was at the moment that Tarzan turned from the closed door to pursue his way to the outer world . 
The thing came without warning . 
In the great apartment where the treasure lay less damage was wrought by the earthquake . 
There was but the single shock , no other followed to complete the damage undertaken by the first . 
Werper , thrown to his length by the suddenness and violence of the disturbance , staggered to his feet when he found himself unhurt . 
Groping his way toward the far end of the chamber , he sought the candle which Tarzan had left stuck in its own wax upon the protruding end of an ingot . 
Werper drew back in sudden fear of detection but a second glance convinced him that the Englishman was dead . 
From a great gash in the man's head a pool of blood had collected upon the concrete floor . 
But his renewed hopes were soon dashed . 
Just beyond the doorway he found the passage completely clogged and choked by impenetrable masses of shattered rock . 
Once more he turned and re entered the treasure vault . 
Beyond the door lay another narrow passageway . 
Along this Werper made his way , ascending a flight of stone steps to another corridor twenty feet above the level of the first . 
Before him was a circular shaft . 
He held the candle above it and peered downward . 
Below him , at a great distance , he saw the light reflected back from the surface of a pool of water . 
He had come upon a well . 
The voice seemed partly human , yet so hideous that it might well have emanated from the tortured throat of a lost soul , writhing in the fires of hell . 
The Belgian shuddered and looked fearfully upward , for the scream had seemed to come from above him . 
As he looked he saw an opening far overhead , and a patch of sky pinked with brilliant stars . 
His half formed intention to call for help was expunged by the terrifying cry where such a voice lived , no human creatures could dwell . 
He dared not reveal himself to whatever inhabitants dwelt in the place above him . 
He cursed himself for a fool that he had ever embarked upon such a mission . 
He listened fearfully , but the cry was not repeated , and at last spurred to desperate means , he gathered himself for the leap across the chasm . 
Going back twenty paces , he took a running start , and at the edge of the well , leaped upward and outward in an attempt to gain the opposite side . 
In his hand he clutched the sputtering candle , and as he took the leap the rush of air extinguished it . 
In utter darkness he flew through space , clutching outward for a hold should his feet miss the invisible ledge . 
For several minutes he dared not move but clung , weak and sweating , where he lay . 
At last , cautiously , he drew himself well within the tunnel , and again he lay at full length upon the floor , fighting to regain control of his shattered nerves . 
When his knees struck the edge of the tunnel he had dropped the candle . 
And when , at last , he found it , he clasped it to him and sank back sobbing and exhausted . 
With the light he found it easier to regain control of his nerves , and presently he was again making his way along the tunnel in search of an avenue of escape . 
What could it mean ? Werper was an educated and intelligent man . 
His military training had taught him to use his mind for the purpose for which it was intended . 
A blind tunnel such as this was senseless . 
It must continue beyond the wall . 
Someone , at some time in the past , had had it blocked for an unknown purpose of his own . 
The man fell to examining the masonry by the light of his candle . 
To his delight he discovered that the thin blocks of hewn stone of which it was constructed were fitted in loosely without mortar or cement . 
He tugged upon one of them , and to his joy found that it was easily removable . 
One after another he pulled out the blocks until he had opened an aperture large enough to admit his body , then he crawled through into a large , low chamber . 
Across this another door barred his way but this , too , gave before his efforts , for it was not barred . 
A long , dark corridor showed before him , but before he had followed it far , his candle burned down until it scorched his fingers . 
With an oath he dropped it to the floor , where it sputtered for a moment and went out . 
Now he was in total darkness , and again terror rode heavily astride his neck . 
When he awoke there was no change in the surrounding blackness . 
He might have slept a second or a day he could not know but that he had slept for some time was attested by the fact that he felt refreshed and hungry . 
Above him , through the aperture , Werper could see sunlight glancing from massive columns , which were twined about by clinging vines . 
He listened but he heard no sound other than the soughing of the wind through leafy branches , the hoarse cries of birds , and the chattering of monkeys . 
Boldly he ascended the stairway , to find himself in a circular court . 
Just before him stood a stone altar , stained with rusty brown discolorations . 
At the time Werper gave no thought to an explanation of these stains later their origin became all too hideously apparent to him . 
Above , and circling the courtyard , was a series of open balconies . 
Monkeys scampered about the deserted ruins , and gaily plumaged birds flitted in and out among the columns and the galleries far above but no sign of human presence was discernible . 
He sighed , as though a great weight had been lifted from his shoulders . 
With a scream he turned to flee back into the lesser terrors of the gloomy corridors and apartments from which he had just emerged , but the frightful men anticipated his intentions . 
The rest was but a repetition of what Tarzan and Jane Clayton had passed through . 
The priestesses came , and with them La , the High Priestess . 
Werper was raised and laid across the altar . 
Cold sweat exuded from his every pore as La raised the cruel , sacrificial knife above him . 
The death chant fell upon his tortured ears . 
His staring eyes wandered to the golden goblets from which the hideous votaries would soon quench their inhuman thirst in his own , warm life blood . 
He wished that he might be granted the brief respite of unconsciousness before the final plunge of the keen blade and then there was a frightful roar that sounded almost in his ears . 
The High Priestess lowered her dagger . 
Her eyes went wide in horror . 
The priestesses , her votaresses , screamed and fled madly toward the exits . 
The priests roared out their rage and terror according to the temper of their courage . 
Again the lord of the wilderness roared , turning his baleful gaze upon the altar . 
La staggered forward , reeled , and fell across Werper in a swoon . 
They found the way blocked by jammed and distorted rock . 
Again and again as they labored they called aloud the names of their master and their comrade but no answering call rewarded their listening ears . 
At last they gave up the search . 
And as they marched what sorry fate was already drawing down upon that peaceful , happy home ! From the north came Achmet Zek , riding to the summons of his lieutenant's letter . 
A giant in stature , a savage , fearless warrior , the huge black possessed also soul and judgment in proportion to his bulk and his ferocity . 
On such occasions Mugambi , mounted upon a wiry Arab , had ridden close at her horse's heels . 
The raiders were still a long way off when the warrior's keen eyes discovered them . 
Here he called out to the lolling warriors . 
In compliance with them the men seized upon their weapons and their shields . 
Some ran to call in the workers from the fields and to warn the tenders of the flocks and herds . 
The majority followed Mugambi back toward the bungalow . 
The dust of the raiders was still a long distance away . 
Mugambi could not know positively that it hid an enemy but he had spent a lifetime of savage life in savage Africa , and he had seen parties before come thus unheralded . 
Sometimes they had come in peace and sometimes they had come in war one could never tell . 
It was well to be prepared . 
Mugambi did not like the haste with which the strangers advanced . 
The Greystoke bungalow was not well adapted for defense . 
No palisade surrounded it , for , situated as it was , in the heart of loyal Waziri , its master had anticipated no possibility of an attack in force by any enemy . 
Heavy , wooden shutters there were to close the window apertures against hostile arrows , and these Mugambi was engaged in lowering when Lady Greystoke appeared upon the veranda . 
Why , Mugambi ! she exclaimed . 
What has happened ? Why are you lowering the shutters ? Mugambi pointed out across the plain to where a white robed force of mounted men was now distinctly visible . 
They come for no good purpose in the absence of the Great Bwana . 
Beyond the neat lawn and the flowering shrubs , Jane Clayton saw the glistening bodies of her Waziri . 
Jane Clayton surveyed them with unmixed feelings of pride and affection . 
What harm could befall her with such as these to protect her ? The raiders had halted now , a hundred yards out upon the plain . 
Mugambi had hastened down to join his warriors . 
He advanced a few yards before them and raising his voice hailed the strangers . 
Achmet Zek sat straight in his saddle before his henchmen . 
What do you here ? We come in peace , Achmet Zek called back . 
Then turn and go in peace , replied Mugambi . 
We do not want you here . 
There can be no peace between Arab and Waziri . 
Mugambi , although not born in Waziri , had been adopted into the tribe , which now contained no member more jealous of its traditions and its prowess than he . 
Achmet Zek drew to one side of his horde , speaking to his men in a low voice . 
A moment later , without warning , a ragged volley was poured into the ranks of the Waziri . 
A couple of warriors fell , the others were for charging the attackers but Mugambi was a cautious as well as a brave leader . 
He knew the futility of charging mounted men armed with muskets . 
He withdrew his force behind the shrubbery of the garden . 
Some he dispatched to various other parts of the grounds surrounding the bungalow . 
Half a dozen he sent to the bungalow itself with instructions to keep their mistress within doors , and to protect her with their lives . 
At that part of the circle closest to the Waziri , a constant fusillade of shots was poured into the bushes behind which the black warriors had concealed themselves . 
The latter , on their part , loosed their slim shafts at the nearest of the enemy . 
The Waziri , justly famed for their archery , found no cause to blush for their performance that day . 
Time and again some swarthy horseman threw hands above his head and toppled from his saddle , pierced by a deadly arrow but the contest was uneven . 
Across the fields they charged at a mad run . 
Not again did they pause to lower fences , instead , they drove their wild mounts straight for them , clearing the obstacles as lightly as winged gulls . 
Mugambi saw them coming , and , calling those of his warriors who remained , ran for the bungalow and the last stand . 
Upon the veranda Lady Greystoke stood , rifle in hand . 
More than a single raider had accounted to her steady nerves and cool aim for his outlawry more than a single pony raced , riderless , in the wake of the charging horde . 
Mugambi pushed his mistress back into the greater security of the interior , and with his depleted force prepared to make a last stand against the foe . 
On came the Arabs , shouting and waving their long guns above their heads . 
From beneath the half raised shutters of the bungalow other bowmen did effective service in greater security , and after the first assault , Mugambi withdrew his entire force within the building . 
Again and again the Arabs charged , at last forming a stationary circle about the little fortress , and outside the effective range of the defenders' arrows . 
From their new position they fired at will at the windows . 
One by one the Waziri fell . 
Fewer and fewer were the arrows that replied to the guns of the raiders , and at last Achmet Zek felt safe in ordering an assault . 
Firing as they ran , the bloodthirsty horde raced for the veranda . 
A dozen of them fell to the arrows of the defenders but the majority reached the door . 
Heavy gun butts fell upon it . 
The crash of splintered wood mingled with the report of a rifle as Jane Clayton fired through the panels upon the relentless foe . 
At the far end stood Jane Clayton surrounded by the remnant of her devoted guardians . 
The floor was covered by the bodies of those who already had given up their lives in her defense . 
In the forefront of her protectors stood the giant Mugambi . 
The Arabs raised their rifles to pour in the last volley that would effectually end all resistance but Achmet Zek roared out a warning order that stayed their trigger fingers . 
Fire not upon the woman ! he cried . 
Who harms her , dies . 
Take the woman alive ! The Arabs rushed across the room the Waziri met them with their heavy spears . 
Swords flashed , long barreled pistols roared out their sullen death dooms . 
From across the room Achmet Zek watched the unequal struggle and urged on his minions . 
In his hands was a jeweled musket . 
Slowly he raised it to his shoulder , waiting until another move should place Mugambi at his mercy without endangering the lives of the woman or any of his own followers . 
At last the moment came , and Achmet Zek pulled the trigger . 
Without a sound the brave Mugambi sank to the floor at the feet of Jane Clayton . 
An instant later she was surrounded and disarmed . 
Without a word they dragged her from the bungalow . 
Jane Clayton saw the raiders lead the horses from the corral , and drive the herds in from the fields . 
She saw her home plundered of all that represented intrinsic worth in the eyes of the Arabs , and then she saw the torch applied , and the flames lick up what remained . 
It was a huge black who rolled over upon his side and opened blood shot , suffering eyes . 
Mugambi , whom the Arabs had left for dead , still lived . 
The hot flames were almost upon him as he raised himself painfully upon his hands and knees and crawled slowly toward the doorway . 
Again and again he sank weakly to the floor but each time he rose again and continued his pitiful way toward safety . 
All night he lay there , alternately unconscious and painfully sentient and in the latter state watching with savage hatred the lurid flames which still rose from burning crib and hay cock . 
A prowling lion roared close at hand but the giant black was unafraid . 
He lay as one dead but he was not dead . 
His eyes opened upon the utter darkness of the room . 
He raised his hand to his head and brought it away sticky with clotted blood . 
He sniffed at his fingers , as a wild beast might sniff at the life blood upon a wounded paw . 
Slowly he rose to a sitting posture listening . 
No sound reached to the buried depths of his sepulcher . 
He staggered to his feet , and groped his way about among the tiers of ingots . 
What was he ? Where was he ? His head ached but otherwise he felt no ill effects from the blow that had felled him . 
The accident he did not recall , nor did he recall aught of what had led up to it . 
He let his hands grope unfamiliarly over his limbs , his torso , and his head . 
He felt of the quiver at his back , the knife in his loin cloth . 
Something struggled for recognition within his brain . 
Ah ! he had it . 
He crawled about upon the floor , feeling with his hands for the thing that instinct warned him was gone . 
Tarzan was sure that there was another and more lovely world than that which was confined to the darkness of the four stone walls surrounding him . 
He continued his search and at last found the doorway leading inward beneath the city and the temple . 
This he followed , most incautiously . 
He came to the stone steps leading upward to the higher level . 
He ascended them and continued onward toward the well . 
Nothing spurred his hurt memory to a recollection of past familiarity with his surroundings . 
He reached the brink of the well , stepped outward into space , lunged forward , and shot downward into the inky depths below . 
Still clutching his spear , he struck the water , and sank beneath its surface , plumbing the depths . 
The fall had not injured him , and when he rose to the surface , he shook the water from his eyes , and found that he could see . 
Daylight was filtering into the well from the orifice far above his head . 
It illumined the inner walls faintly . 
On the level with the surface of the water he saw a large opening in the dark and slimy wall . 
He swam to it , and drew himself out upon the wet floor of a tunnel . 
Along this he passed but now he went warily , for Tarzan of the Apes was learning . 
The unexpected pit had taught him care in the traversing of dark passageways he needed no second lesson . 
For a long distance the passage went straight as an arrow . 
The floor was slippery , as though at times the rising waters of the well overflowed and flooded it . 
This , in itself , retarded Tarzan's pace , for it was with difficulty that he kept his footing . 
The foot of a stairway ended the passage . 
Up this he made his way . 
Curiosity prompted the ape man to investigate his surroundings . 
Several metal bound , copper studded chests constituted the sole furniture of the round room . 
Tarzan let his hands run over these . 
He felt of the copper studs , he pulled upon the hinges , and at last , by chance , he raised the cover of one . 
An exclamation of delight broke from his lips at sight of the pretty contents . 
Gleaming and glistening in the subdued light of the chamber , lay a great tray full of brilliant stones . 
Tarzan , reverted to the primitive by his accident , had no conception of the fabulous value of his find . 
To him they were but pretty pebbles . 
He plunged his hands into them and let the priceless gems filter through his fingers . 
He went to others of the chests , only to find still further stores of precious stones . 
Nearly all were cut , and from these he gathered a handful and filled the pouch which dangled at his side the uncut stones he tossed back into the chests . 
Unwittingly , the ape man had stumbled upon the forgotten jewel room of Opar . 
Tiring at last of this diversion , Tarzan took up his way along the corridor which led upward from the jewel room by a steep incline . 
Above him an opening in the ceiling at the upper end of a flight of concrete steps revealed a brilliant sunlit scene . 
Tarzan viewed the vine covered columns in mild wonderment . 
He puckered his brows in an attempt to recall some recollection of similar things . 
He was not sure of himself . 
There was a tantalizing suggestion always present in his mind that something was eluding him that he should know many things which he did not know . 
His earnest cogitation was rudely interrupted by a thunderous roar from the opening above him . 
Following the roar came the cries and screams of men and women . 
Tarzan grasped his spear more firmly and ascended the steps . 
A strange sight met his eyes as he emerged from the semi darkness of the cellar to the brilliant light of the temple . 
The creatures he saw before him he recognized for what they were men and women , and a huge lion . 
The men and women were scuttling for the safety of the exits . 
The lion stood upon the body of one who had been less fortunate than the others . 
He was in the center of the temple . 
Directly before Tarzan , a woman stood beside a block of stone . 
Another thunderous roar broke from the savage throat , the woman screamed and swooned across the body of the man stretched prostrate upon the stone altar before her . 
The lion advanced a few steps and crouched . 
The tip of his sinuous tail twitched nervously . 
He was upon the point of charging when his eyes were attracted toward the ape man . 
Werper , helpless upon the altar , saw the great carnivore preparing to leap upon him . 
He saw the sudden change in the beast's expression as his eyes wandered to something beyond the altar and out of the Belgian's view . 
He saw the formidable creature rise to a standing position . 
A figure darted past Werper . 
He saw a mighty arm upraised , and a stout spear shoot forward toward the lion , to bury itself in the broad chest . 
The lion reared up to meet this new enemy . 
The beast was growling frightfully , and then upon the startled ears of the Belgian , broke a similar savage growl from the lips of the man rushing upon the beast . 
By a quick side step , Tarzan eluded the first swinging clutch of the lion's paws . 
Darting to the beast's side , he leaped upon the tawny back . 
His arms encircled the maned neck , his teeth sank deep into the brute's flesh . 
During the battle , La regained consciousness . 
Spellbound , she stood above her victim watching the spectacle . 
It seemed incredible that a human being could best the king of beasts in personal encounter and yet before her very eyes there was taking place just such an improbability . 
At last Tarzan's knife found the great heart , and with a final , spasmodic struggle the lion rolled over upon the marble floor , dead . 
Then the ape man turned , and Werper recognized him as the man he had left for dead in the treasure room . 
The Escape from Opar Werper was astounded . 
It was as though he had discovered some new species of living creature and was marveling at his find . 
La was studying the ape man's features . 
Slowly her large eyes opened very wide . 
She has taken no mate , for in all the world there was but one with whom La would mate . 
And now you have come back ! Tell me , O Tarzan , that it is for me you have returned . 
Werper listened to the unintelligible jargon . 
He looked from La to Tarzan . 
Would the latter understand this strange tongue ? To the Belgian's surprise , the Englishman answered in a language evidently identical to hers . 
Tarzan , he repeated , musingly . 
It is your name you are Tarzan , cried La . 
I am Tarzan ? The ape man shrugged . 
Well , it is a good name I know no other , so I will keep it but I do not know you . 
I did not come hither for you . 
Why I came , I do not know at all neither do I know from whence I came . 
Can you tell me ? La shook her head . 
I never knew , she replied . 
Tarzan turned toward Werper and put the same question to him but in the language of the great apes . 
The Belgian shook his head . 
I do not understand that language , he said in French . 
Without effort , and apparently without realizing that he made the change , Tarzan repeated his question in French . 
Werper suddenly came to a full realization of the magnitude of the injury of which Tarzan was a victim . 
The man had lost his memory no longer could he recollect past events . 
The woman was about to plunge her knife into my heart when the lion interrupted the fiendish ritual . 
Come ! Before they recover from their fright and reassemble , let us find a way out of their damnable temple . 
Tarzan turned again toward La . 
Why , he asked , would you have killed this man ? Are you hungry ? The High Priestess cried out in disgust . 
Did he attempt to kill you ? continued Tarzan . 
The woman shook her head . 
Then why should you have wished to kill him ? Tarzan was determined to get to the bottom of the thing . 
La raised her slender arm and pointed toward the sun . 
We were offering up his soul as a gift to the Flaming God , she said . 
He was again an ape , and apes do not understand such matters as souls and Flaming Gods . 
Do you wish to die ? he asked Werper . 
The Belgian assured him , with tears in his eyes , that he did not wish to die . 
Very well then , you shall not , said Tarzan . 
Come ! We will go . 
This SHE would kill you and keep me for herself . 
It is no place anyway for a Mangani . 
I should soon die , shut up behind these stone walls . 
We are going now , he said . 
The woman rushed forward and seized the ape man's hands in hers . 
Do not leave me ! she cried . 
Stay , and you shall be High Priest . 
All Opar shall be yours . 
Slaves shall wait upon you . 
Stay , Tarzan of the Apes , and let love reward you . 
The ape man pushed the kneeling woman aside . 
Tarzan does not desire you , he said , simply , and stepping to Werper's side he cut the Belgian's bonds and motioned him to follow . 
Panting her face convulsed with rage , La sprang to her feet . 
Stay , you shall ! she screamed . 
In answer to her cry a babel of voices broke from the surrounding chambers and corridors . 
Come , Guardian Priests ! she cried . 
The infidels have profaned the holiest of the holies . 
Come ! Strike terror to their hearts defend La and her altar wash clean the temple with the blood of the polluters . 
Tarzan understood , though Werper did not . 
The former glanced at the Belgian and saw that he was unarmed . 
You will need this , he said , and then from each doorway a horde of the monstrous , little men of Opar streamed into the temple . 
They were armed with bludgeons and knives , and fortified in their courage by fanatical hate and frenzy . 
Tarzan stood eyeing the foe in proud disdain . 
Slowly he advanced toward the exit he had chosen to utilize in making his way from the temple . 
A burly priest barred his way . 
Behind the first was a score of others . 
Tarzan swung his heavy spear , clublike , down upon the skull of the priest . 
The fellow collapsed , his head crushed . 
Again and again the weapon fell as Tarzan made his way slowly toward the doorway . 
Werper pressed close behind , casting backward glances toward the shrieking , dancing mob menacing their rear . 
He held the sacrificial knife ready to strike whoever might come within its reach but none came . 
For a time he wondered that they should so bravely battle with the giant ape man , yet hesitate to rush upon him , who was relatively so weak . 
Had they done so he knew that he must have fallen at the first charge . 
Tarzan had reached the doorway over the corpses of all that had stood to dispute his way , before Werper guessed at the reason for his immunity . 
Some strange superstition must surround that polished blade , that no Oparian cared to chance a death thrust from it , yet gladly rushed to the slaughter of the ape man's flaying spear . 
Once outside the temple court , Werper communicated his discovery to Tarzan . 
The ape man grinned , and let Werper go before him , brandishing the jeweled and holy weapon . 
Like leaves before a gale , the Oparians scattered in all directions and Tarzan and the Belgian found a clear passage through the corridors and chambers of the ancient temple . 
The Belgian's eyes went wide as they passed through the room of the seven pillars of solid gold . 
With ill concealed avarice he looked upon the age old , golden tablets set in the walls of nearly every room and down the sides of many of the corridors . 
To the ape man all this wealth appeared to mean nothing . 
On the two went , chance leading them toward the broad avenue which lay between the stately piles of the half ruined edifices and the inner wall of the city . 
Great apes jabbered at them and menaced them but Tarzan answered them after their own kind , giving back taunt for taunt , insult for insult , challenge for challenge . 
Werper saw a hairy bull swing down from a broken column and advance , stiff legged and bristling , toward the naked giant . 
The yellow fangs were bared , angry snarls and barkings rumbled threateningly through the thick and hanging lips . 
The Belgian watched his companion . 
To his horror , he saw the man stoop until his closed knuckles rested upon the ground as did those of the anthropoid . 
He saw him circle , stiff legged about the circling ape . 
He heard the same bestial barkings and growlings issue from the human throat that were coming from the mouth of the brute . 
Had his eyes been closed he could not have known but that two giant apes were bridling for combat . 
But there was no battle . 
In this instance it was the anthropoid that retired in stiff dignity to inspect an unhappy caterpillar , which he presently devoured . 
For a moment Tarzan seemed inclined to pursue the argument . 
He swaggered truculently , stuck out his chest , roared and advanced closer to the bull . 
It was with difficulty that Werper finally persuaded him to leave well enough alone and continue his way from the ancient city of the Sun Worshipers . 
The two searched for nearly an hour before they found the narrow exit through the inner wall . 
From there the well worn trail led them beyond the outer fortification to the desolate valley of Opar . 
Tarzan had no idea , in so far as Werper could discover , as to where he was or whence he came . 
He wandered aimlessly about , searching for food , which he discovered beneath small rocks , or hiding in the shade of the scant brush which dotted the ground . 
The Belgian was horrified by the hideous menu of his companion . 
Beetles , rodents and caterpillars were devoured with seeming relish . 
Tarzan was indeed an ape again . 
He seemed continually to be trying to grasp some mental image which as constantly eluded him . 
At last he opened the leathern pouch which hung at his side . 
From it he poured into the palm of his hand a quantity of glittering gems . 
In an open glade he came upon the bodies of three of the blacks , terribly mutilated , nor did it require considerable deductive power to explain their murder . 
Of the little party only these three had not been slaves . 
Tarzan showed not the slightest surprise or interest in the discovery . 
Inherent in him was a calloused familiarity with violent death . 
The training of Kala , the examples and precepts of Kerchak , of Tublat , and of Terkoz now formed the basis of his every thought and action . 
He retained a mechanical knowledge of French and English speech . 
Werper had spoken to him in French , and Tarzan had replied in the same tongue without conscious realization that he had departed from the anthropoidal speech in which he had addressed La . 
Had Werper used English , the result would have been the same . 
Again , that night , as the two sat before their camp fire , Tarzan played with his shining baubles . 
Werper asked him what they were and where he had found them . 
Werper was relieved to find that Tarzan had no conception of the value of the gems . 
This would make it easier for the Belgian to obtain possession of them . 
Possibly the man would give them to him for the asking . 
Werper reached out his hand toward the little pile that Tarzan had arranged upon a piece of flat wood before him . 
Let me see them , said the Belgian . 
Tarzan placed a large palm over his treasure . 
He bared his fighting fangs , and growled . 
Werper withdrew his hand more quickly than he had advanced it . 
Tarzan resumed his playing with the gems , and his conversation with Werper as though nothing unusual had occurred . 
He had but exhibited the beast's jealous protective instinct for a possession . 
From that occurrence dated the beginning of a great fear in the breast of the Belgian for his savage companion . 
He had never understood the transformation that had been wrought in Tarzan by the blow upon his head , other than to attribute it to a form of amnesia . 
Now Werper saw in the Englishman a dangerous maniac , whom the slightest untoward accident might turn upon him with rending fangs . 
Not for a moment did Werper attempt to delude himself into the belief that he could defend himself successfully against an attack by the ape man . 
Too , Werper had his covetous soul set upon the pouch of gems , and so he was torn between the various emotions of avarice and fear . 
He had it all planned out , did Lieutenant Albert Werper , living in anticipation the luxurious life of the idle rich . 
He even found himself regretting that America was so provincial , and that nowhere in the new world was a city that might compare with his beloved Brussels . 
It was upon the third day of their progress from Opar that the keen ears of Tarzan caught the sound of men behind them . 
Werper heard nothing above the humming of the jungle insects , and the chattering life of the lesser monkeys and the birds . 
For a time Tarzan stood in statuesque silence , listening , his sensitive nostrils dilating as he assayed each passing breeze . 
Then he withdrew Werper into the concealment of thick brush , and waited . 
Presently , along the game trail that Werper and Tarzan had been following , there came in sight a sleek , black warrior , alert and watchful . 
In single file behind him , there followed , one after another , near fifty others , each burdened with two dull yellow ingots lashed upon his back . 
Werper recognized the party immediately as that which had accompanied Tarzan on his journey to Opar . 
He glanced at the ape man but in the savage , watchful eyes he saw no recognition of Basuli and those other loyal Waziri . 
When all had passed , Tarzan rose and emerged from concealment . 
He looked down the trail in the direction the party had gone . 
Then he turned to Werper . 
We will follow and slay them , he said . 
Why ? asked the Belgian . 
They are black , explained Tarzan . 
It was a black who killed Kala . 
They are the enemies of the Manganis . 
Werper did not relish the idea of engaging in a battle with Basuli and his fierce fighting men . 
Tarzan , he knew , had not the remotest idea of whither they were going . 
By keeping at a safe distance behind the laden warriors , they would have no difficulty in following them home . 
Once at the bungalow , Werper knew the way to the camp of Achmet Zek . 
There was still another reason why he did not wish to interfere with the Waziri they were bearing the great burden of treasure in the direction he wished it borne . 
The farther they took it , the less the distance that he and Achmet Zek would have to transport it . 
A mile or more ahead of them , the line of warriors was creeping like a giant caterpillar through the tall grasses of the plain . 
Tarzan looked out across the familiar vista with no faintest gleam of recognition in his eyes . 
He saw the game animals , and his mouth watered but he did not look in the direction of his bungalow . 
Werper , however , did . 
A puzzled expression entered the Belgian's eyes . 
He shaded them with his palms and gazed long and earnestly toward the spot where the bungalow had stood . 
He could not credit the testimony of his eyes there was no bungalow no barns no out houses . 
The corrals , the hay stacks all were gone . 
Now they hastened on toward it talking excitedly among themselves in animated speculation upon the cause and meaning of the catastrophe . 
When , at last they crossed the trampled garden and stood before the charred ruins of their master's bungalow , their greatest fears became convictions in the light of the evidence about them . 
The Arabs , he said , as his men clustered about him . 
The Waziri gazed about in mute rage for several minutes . 
Everywhere they encountered only further evidence of the ruthlessness of the cruel enemy that had come during the Great Bwana's absence and laid waste his property . 
What did they with 'Lady' ? asked one of the blacks . 
They had always called Lady Greystoke thus . 
The women they would have taken with them , said Basuli . 
A giant black raised his spear above his head , and gave voice to a savage cry of rage and hate . 
The others followed his example . 
Basuli silenced them with a gesture . 
This is no time for useless noises of the mouth , he said . 
The Great Bwana has taught us that it is acts by which things are done , not words . 
Let us save our breath we shall need it all to follow up the Arabs and slay them . 
If 'Lady' and our women live the greater the need of haste , and warriors cannot travel fast upon empty lungs . 
From the shelter of the reeds along the river , Werper and Tarzan watched the blacks . 
They saw them dig a trench with their knives and fingers . 
They saw them lay their yellow burdens in it and scoop the overturned earth back over the tops of the ingots . 
Tarzan seemed little interested , after Werper had assured him that that which they buried was not good to eat but Werper was intensely interested . 
Werper and Tarzan sat devouring some pieces of meat they had brought from their last camp . 
The Belgian was occupied with his plans for the immediate future . 
This alone would assure immediate pursuit by so warlike a people as the Waziri . 
What the Arab would now do with Lady Greystoke , in view of the mental affliction of her husband , Werper neither knew nor cared . 
But by far the most important consideration , to Werper , at least , was the incalculably valuable treasure in the little leathern pouch at Tarzan's side . 
If he could but obtain possession of this ! He must ! He would ! His eyes wandered to the object of his greed . 
They measured Tarzan's giant frame , and rested upon the rounded muscles of his arms . 
For a time he lay thus , glowering at Tarzan , and originating schemes for plundering him of his treasure schemes that were discarded as futile as rapidly as they were born . 
Tarzan presently let his own eyes rest upon Werper . 
The Belgian saw that he was being watched , and lay very still . 
After a few moments he simulated the regular breathing of deep slumber . 
He had seen the Waziri bury their belongings . 
Werper had told him that they were hiding them lest some one find them and take them away . 
This seemed to Tarzan a splendid plan for safeguarding valuables . 
For a long time the ape man sat watching his companion . 
At last , convinced that he slept , Tarzan withdrew his hunting knife and commenced to dig a hole in the ground before him . 
Into this he placed the pouch of jewels . 
Werper almost forgot to breathe after the fashion of a sleeper as he saw what the ape man was doing he scarce repressed an ejaculation of satisfaction . 
Tarzan become suddenly rigid as his keen ears noted the cessation of the regular inspirations and expirations of his companion . 
His narrowed eyes bored straight down upon the Belgian . 
Werper felt that he was lost he must risk all on his ability to carry on the deception . 
He sighed , threw both arms outward , and turned over on his back mumbling as though in the throes of a bad dream . 
A moment later he resumed the regular breathing . 
Now he could not watch Tarzan , but he was sure that the man sat for a long time looking at him . 
Then , faintly , Werper heard the other's hands scraping dirt , and later patting it down . 
He knew then that the jewels were buried . 
It was an hour before Werper moved again , then he rolled over facing Tarzan and opened his eyes . 
By reaching out his hand Werper could touch the spot where the pouch was buried . 
For a long time he lay watching and listening . 
He moved about , making more noise than necessary , yet Tarzan did not awaken . 
He drew the sacrificial knife from his belt , and plunged it into the ground . 
Cautiously the Belgian pushed the blade downward through the loose earth above the pouch . 
He felt the point touch the soft , tough fabric of the leather . 
Then he pried down upon the handle . 
Slowly the little mound of loose earth rose and parted . 
An instant later a corner of the pouch came into view . 
Werper pulled it from its hiding place , and tucked it in his shirt . 
Then he refilled the hole and pressed the dirt carefully down as it had been before . 
Greed had prompted him to an act , the discovery of which by his companion could lead only to the most frightful consequences for Werper . 
Already he could almost feel those strong , white fangs burying themselves in his neck . 
Far out across the plain a leopard screamed , and in the dense reeds behind him some great beast moved on padded feet . 
Werper feared these prowlers of the night but infinitely more he feared the just wrath of the human beast sleeping at his side . 
With utmost caution the Belgian arose . 
Werper took a few steps toward the plain and the distant forest to the northwest , then he paused and fingered the hilt of the long knife in his belt . 
He turned and looked down upon the sleeper . 
Why not ? he mused . 
Then I should be safe . 
He returned and bent above the ape man . 
He could move but slowly , resting often but savage hatred and an equally savage desire for vengeance kept him to his task . 
As the days passed his wounds healed and his strength returned , until at last his giant frame had regained all of its former mighty powers . 
Now he went more rapidly but the mounted Arabs had covered a great distance while the wounded black had been painfully crawling after them . 
They had reached their fortified camp , and there Achmet Zek awaited the return of his lieutenant , Albert Werper . 
During the long , rough journey , Jane Clayton had suffered more in anticipation of her impending fate than from the hardships of the road . 
Achmet Zek had not deigned to acquaint her with his intentions regarding her future . 
Jane Clayton was of sterner stuff than that which bends in spineless terror before danger . 
Until hope proved futile she would not give it up nor did she entertain thoughts of self destruction only as a final escape from dishonor . 
So long as Tarzan lived there was every reason to expect succor . 
No man nor beast who roamed the savage continent could boast the cunning and the powers of her lord and master . 
To her , he was little short of omnipotent in his native world this world of savage beasts and savage men . 
Tarzan would come , and she would be rescued and avenged , of that she was certain . 
She counted the days that must elapse before he would return from Opar and discover what had transpired during his absence . 
After that it would be but a short time before he had surrounded the Arab stronghold and punished the motley crew of wrongdoers who inhabited it . 
That he could find her she had no slightest doubt . 
No spoor , however faint , could elude the keen vigilance of his senses . 
To him , the trail of the raiders would be as plain as the printed page of an open book to her . 
And while she hoped , there came through the dark jungle another . 
Terrified by night and by day , came Albert Werper . 
A dozen times he had escaped the claws and fangs of the giant carnivora only by what seemed a miracle to him . 
By night he had slept in trees . 
By day he had stumbled fearfully on , often taking refuge among the branches when sight or sound of some great cat warned him from danger . 
But at last he had come within sight of the palisade behind which were his fierce companions . 
At almost the same time Mugambi came out of the jungle before the walled village . 
As he stood in the shadow of a great tree , reconnoitering , he saw a man , ragged and disheveled , emerge from the jungle almost at his elbow . 
Instantly he recognized the newcomer as he who had been a guest of his master before the latter had departed for Opar . 
The black was upon the point of hailing the Belgian when something stayed him . 
He saw the white man walking confidently across the clearing toward the village gate . 
No sane man thus approached a village in this part of Africa unless he was sure of a friendly welcome . 
He heard Werper halloo he saw the gates swing open , and he witnessed the surprised and friendly welcome that was accorded the erstwhile guest of Lord and Lady Greystoke . 
A light broke upon the understanding of Mugambi . 
This white man had been a traitor and a spy . 
It was to him they owed the raid during the absence of the Great Bwana . 
To his hate for the Arabs , Mugambi added a still greater hate for the white spy . 
Within the village Werper passed hurriedly toward the silken tent of Achmet Zek . 
The Arab arose as his lieutenant entered . 
His face showed surprise as he viewed the tattered apparel of the Belgian . 
What has happened ? he asked . 
Werper narrated all , save the little matter of the pouch of gems which were now tightly strapped about his waist , beneath his clothing . 
The Arab's eyes narrowed greedily as his henchman described the treasure that the Waziri had buried beside the ruins of the Greystoke bungalow . 
It will be a simple matter now to return and get it , said Achmet Zek . 
And the woman ? asked Werper . 
I shall sell her in the north , replied the raider . 
It is the only way , now . 
She should bring a good price . 
He would forego a share of the gold , if he could but get away unscathed with the jewels . 
He knew Achmet Zek well enough by this time to know that no member of his band ever was voluntarily released from the service of Achmet Zek . 
Most of the few who deserted were recaptured . 
More than once had Werper listened to their agonized screams as they were tortured before being put to death . 
The Belgian had no wish to take the slightest chance of recapture . 
The buried gold was of much greater value than the price the woman would bring . 
It was necessary to rid himself of her as quickly as possible and it was also well to obtain the gold with the least possible delay . 
Of all his followers , the Belgian was the most logical lieutenant to intrust with the command of one of the parties . 
An Arab , as familiar with the trails and tribes as Achmet Zek himself , might collect the woman's price and make good his escape into the far north . 
At last the Arab spoke It is not necessary that we both return for the gold . 
We can meet again here when our business is concluded . 
Werper could scarce disguise the joy with which he received this welcome decision . 
And that he did entirely disguise it from the keen and suspicious eyes of Achmet Zek is open to question . 
His thumbs , tucked in his belt in lazy support of the weight of his arms , touched the belt which held the jewel pouch about his waist . 
He tingled with excitement as he let his mind dwell upon the value of the treasure , which , unknown to all save himself , lay hidden beneath his clothing . 
What would Achmet Zek say , if he knew ? Werper grinned . 
He had not even counted them only roughly had he guessed at their value . 
He unfastened the belt and drew the pouch from its hiding place . 
The balance of the camp , save the sentries , had retired none would enter the Belgian's tent . 
He fingered the pouch , feeling out the shapes and sizes of the precious , little nodules within . 
The refulgent rays transformed the interior of the soiled and squalid canvas to the splendor of a palace in the eyes of the dreaming man . 
He saw the gilded halls of pleasure that would open their portals to the possessor of the wealth which lay scattered upon this stained and dented table top . 
Unseeing , his eyes rested upon the shaving mirror which still hung upon the tent wall above the table but his sight was focused far beyond . 
Werper stifled a gasp of dismay . 
With rare self possession he let his gaze drop , without appearing to have halted upon the mirror until it rested again upon the gems . 
Without haste , he replaced them in the pouch , tucked the latter into his shirt , selected a cigaret from his case , lighted it and rose . 
Yawning , and stretching his arms above his head , he turned slowly toward the opposite end of the tent . 
The face of Achmet Zek had disappeared from the opening . 
To say that Albert Werper was terrified would be putting it mildly . 
He realized that he not only had sacrificed his treasure but his life as well . 
Slowly the Belgian prepared for bed . 
If he were being watched , he could not know but if so the watcher saw no indication of the nervous excitement which the European strove to conceal . 
When ready for his blankets , the man crossed to the little table and extinguished the light . 
Cautiously the prowler crossed the interior . 
In one hand was a long knife . 
He came at last to the pile of blankets spread upon several rugs close to one of the tent walls . 
Lightly , his fingers sought and found the bulk beneath the blankets the bulk that should be Albert Werper . 
They traced out the figure of a man , and then an arm shot upward , poised for an instant and descended . 
Again and again it rose and fell , and each time the long blade of the knife buried itself in the thing beneath the blankets . 
But there was an initial lifelessness in the silent bulk that gave the assassin momentary wonder . 
Feverishly he threw back the coverlets , and searched with nervous hands for the pouch of jewels which he expected to find concealed upon his victim's body . 
An instant later he rose with a curse upon his lips . 
Out into the village ran the chief , calling in angry tones to the sleepy Arabs , who tumbled from their tents in answer to his voice . 
But though they searched the village again and again they found no trace of the Belgian . 
Foaming with anger , Achmet Zek called his followers to horse , and though the night was pitchy black they set out to scour the adjoining forest for their quarry . 
As they galloped from the open gates , Mugambi , hiding in a nearby bush , slipped , unseen , within the palisade . 
For an hour he crept about in the rear of the various huts and tents in an effort to locate that in which his master's mate was imprisoned . 
One there was which he was reasonably assured contained her , for it was the only hut before the door of which a sentry had been posted . 
Mugambi was crouching in the shadow of this structure , just around the corner from the unsuspecting guard , when another approached to relieve his comrade . 
The prisoner is safe within ? asked the newcomer . 
She is , replied the other , for none has passed this doorway since I came . 
The new sentry squatted beside the door , while he whom he had relieved made his way to his own hut . 
Mugambi slunk closer to the corner of the building . 
In one powerful hand he gripped a heavy knob stick . 
No sign of elation disturbed his phlegmatic calm , yet inwardly he was aroused to joy by the proof he had just heard that Lady really was within . 
The sentry's back was toward the corner of the hut which hid the giant black . 
The fellow did not see the huge form which silently loomed behind him . 
The knob stick swung upward in a curve , and downward again . 
There was the sound of a dull thud , the crushing of heavy bone , and the sentry slumped into a silent , inanimate lump of clay . 
A moment later Mugambi was searching the interior of the hut . 
What if the first blow should fail to drive the point to his victim's heart ? Werper shuddered in contemplation of the disastrous consequences to himself . 
Again came the soft sound of padded footsteps in the reeds closer this time . 
Before him stretched the wide plain and escape . 
The jewels were in his possession . 
To remain longer was to risk death at the hands of Tarzan , or the jaws of the hunter creeping ever nearer . 
Turning , he slunk away through the night , toward the distant forest . 
The rustling curtain of vegetation parted a few paces from where the sleeper lay , and the massive head of a lion appeared . 
The beast surveyed the ape man intently for a moment , then he crouched , his hind feet drawn well beneath him , his tail lashing from side to side . 
It was the beating of the beast's tail against the reeds which awakened Tarzan . 
Jungle folk do not awaken slowly instantly , full consciousness and full command of their every faculty returns to them from the depth of profound slumber . 
Even as Tarzan opened his eyes he was upon his feet , his spear grasped firmly in his hand and ready for attack . 
Again was he Tarzan of the Apes , sentient , vigilant , ready . 
No two lions have identical characteristics , nor does the same lion invariably act similarly under like circumstances . 
The ape man shrugged his broad shoulders and looked about for his companion . 
Werper was nowhere to be seen . 
For a moment he was puzzled but presently came to the conclusion that Werper had been frightened by the approach of the lion , and had sneaked off in terror . 
A sneer touched Tarzan's lips as he pondered the man's act the desertion of a comrade in time of danger , and without warning . 
Well , if that was the sort of creature Werper was , Tarzan wished nothing more of him . 
He had gone , and for all the ape man cared , he might remain away Tarzan would not search for him . 
A hundred yards from where he stood grew a large tree , alone upon the edge of the reedy jungle . 
Tarzan made his way to it , clambered into it , and finding a comfortable crotch among its branches , reposed himself for uninterrupted sleep until morning . 
And when morning came Tarzan slept on long after the sun had risen . 
His mind , reverted to the primitive , was untroubled by any more serious obligations than those of providing sustenance , and safeguarding his life . 
Therefore , there was nothing to awaken for until danger threatened , or the pangs of hunger assailed . 
It was the latter which eventually aroused him . 
Opening his eyes , he stretched his giant thews , yawned , rose and gazed about him through the leafy foliage of his retreat . 
The ape man eyed the blacks with curiosity . 
Hazily he recalled a grim and hideous form , hairy , ferocious . 
A vague tenderness dominated his savage sentiments as this phantom memory struggled for recognition . 
His mind had reverted to his childhood days it was the figure of the giant she ape , Kala , that he saw but only half recognized . 
He saw , too , other grotesque , manlike forms . 
They were of Terkoz , Tublat , Kerchak , and a smaller , less ferocious figure , that was Neeta , the little playmate of his boyhood . 
Slowly , very slowly , as these visions of the past animated his lethargic memory , he came to recognize them . 
They took definite shape and form , adjusting themselves nicely to the various incidents of his life with which they had been intimately connected . 
When they had gone , he descended from the tree and sought food . 
Out upon the plain grazed numerous herds of wild ruminants . 
Toward a sleek , fat bunch of zebra he wormed his stealthy way . 
No intricate process of reasoning caused him to circle widely until he was down wind from his prey he acted instinctively . 
He took advantage of every form of cover as he crawled upon all fours and often flat upon his stomach toward them . 
A plump young mare and a fat stallion grazed nearest to him as he neared the herd . 
Again it was instinct which selected the former for his meat . 
A low bush grew but a few yards from the unsuspecting two . 
The ape man reached its shelter . 
He gathered his spear firmly in his grasp . 
Cautiously he drew his feet beneath him . 
In a single swift move he rose and cast his heavy weapon at the mare's side . 
Nor did he wait to note the effect of his assault , but leaped cat like after his spear , his hunting knife in his hand . 
For an instant the two animals stood motionless . 
She turned , biting and kicking at her foe . 
Clinging with one hand to the short mane of his quarry , Tarzan struck again and again with his knife at the unprotected heart . 
The result had , from the first , been inevitable . 
The mare fought bravely , but hopelessly , and presently sank to the earth , her heart pierced . 
The ape man placed a foot upon her carcass and raised his voice in the victory call of the Mangani . 
In the distance , Basuli halted as the faint notes of the hideous scream broke upon his ears . 
The great apes , he said to his companion . 
It has been long since I have heard them in the country of the Waziri . 
Attracted by the shrill screams of the mare , a pair of hyenas slunk presently into view . 
They trotted to a point a few yards from the gorging ape man , and halted . 
Tarzan looked up , bared his fighting fangs and growled . 
The hyenas returned the compliment , and withdrew a couple of paces . 
They made no move to attack but continued to sit at a respectful distance until Tarzan had concluded his meal . 
After the ape man had cut a few strips from the carcass to carry with him , he walked slowly off in the direction of the river to quench his thirst . 
His way lay directly toward the hyenas , nor did he alter his course because of them . 
With all the lordly majesty of Numa , the lion , he strode straight toward the growling beasts . 
A moment later they were tearing at the remains of the zebra . 
Back to the reeds went Tarzan , and through them toward the river . 
A herd of buffalo , startled by his approach , rose ready to charge or to fly . 
A great bull pawed the ground and bellowed as his bloodshot eyes discovered the intruder but the ape man passed across their front as though ignorant of their existence . 
His numerous family either followed his example or stood gazing after Tarzan in mild eyed curiosity , until the opposite reeds swallowed him from view . 
At the river , Tarzan drank his fill and bathed . 
During the heat of the day he lay up under the shade of a tree near the ruins of his burned barns . 
His eyes wandered out across the plain toward the forest , and a longing for the pleasures of its mysterious depths possessed his thoughts for a considerable time . 
The ape man's mind was untroubled by regret for the past , or aspiration for the future . 
Recalling only dimly any other existence , the ape man was happy . 
Lord Greystoke had ceased to exist . 
For several hours Tarzan lolled upon his swaying , leafy couch until once again hunger and thirst suggested an excursion . 
Stretching lazily he dropped to the ground and moved slowly toward the river . 
Tarzan had almost reached the point where the trail debouched upon the open river bottom when he saw a family of lions approaching along the path from the direction of the river . 
The ape man counted seven a male and two lionesses , full grown , and four young lions as large and quite as formidable as their parents . 
Tarzan halted , growling , and the lions paused , the great male in the lead baring his fangs and rumbling forth a warning roar . 
It was purely an exhibition of jungle bluff . 
Each was trying to frighten off the other . 
Neither wished to turn back and give way , nor did either at first desire to precipitate an encounter . 
So they stood there facing one another , making all sorts of hideous noises the while they hurled jungle invective back and forth . 
How long this bloodless duel would have persisted it is difficult to say , though eventually Tarzan would have been forced to yield to superior numbers . 
There came , however , an interruption which put an end to the deadlock and it came from Tarzan's rear . 
All that happened in the instant that Tarzan turned to meet the charge of the irascible rhinoceros might take long to tell , and yet would have taxed the swiftest lens to record . 
As his spear left his hand the ape man was looking down upon the mighty horn lowered to toss him , so close was Buto to him . 
Then Buto espied the lions and bore madly down upon them while Tarzan of the Apes leaped nimbly into the tangled creepers at one side of the trail . 
From the safety of his perch Tarzan watched the royal battle with the keenest interest , for the more intelligent of the jungle folk are interested in such encounters . 
They are to them what the racetrack and the prize ring , the theater and the movies are to us . 
They see them often but always they enjoy them for no two are precisely alike . 
For a time it seemed to Tarzan that Buto , the rhinoceros , would prove victor in the gory battle . 
Tarzan's spear had done its work . 
It had been all in the day's work something which you and I might talk about for a lifetime Tarzan dismissed from his mind the moment that the scene passed from his sight . 
There were fifty frightful men with hairy bodies and gnarled and crooked legs . 
They were armed with knives and great bludgeons and at their head marched an almost naked woman , beautiful beyond compare . 
It was La of Opar , High Priestess of the Flaming God , and fifty of her horrid priests searching for the purloiner of the sacred sacrificial knife . 
Never before had La passed beyond the crumbling outer walls of Opar but never before had need been so insistent . 
Burning with white hot anger was the High Priestess , her heart a seething , molten mass of hatred for Tarzan of the Apes . 
The zeal of the religious fanatic whose altar has been desecrated was triply enhanced by the rage of a woman scorned . 
Twice had she thrown her heart at the feet of the godlike ape man and twice had she been repulsed . 
La knew that she was beautiful and she was beautiful , not by the standards of prehistoric Atlantis alone , but by those of modern times was La physically a creature of perfection . 
Before Tarzan came that first time to Opar , La had never seen a human male other than the grotesque and knotted men of her clan . 
With one of these she must mate sooner or later that the direct line of high priestesses might not be broken , unless Fate should bring other men to Opar . 
Among the legends of Opar were tales of godlike men of the olden time and of black men who had come more recently but these latter had been enemies who killed and robbed . 
Custom , duty and religious zeal might have commanded the union but there could have been no love on La's part . 
She had grown to young womanhood a cold and heartless creature , daughter of a thousand other cold , heartless , beautiful women who had never known love . 
To Werper she gave little thought . 
The fact that the knife had been in his hand when it departed from Opar brought down no thoughts of vengeance upon his head . 
Of course , he should be slain when captured but his death would give La no pleasure she looked for that in the contemplated death agonies of Tarzan . 
His should be a slow and frightful death . 
His punishment should be adequate to the immensity of his crime . 
He had wrested the sacred knife from La he had lain sacreligious hands upon the High Priestess of the Flaming God he had desecrated the altar and the temple . 
For these things he should die but he had scorned the love of La , the woman , and for this he should die horribly with great anguish . 
The march of La and her priests was not without its adventures . 
Three great apes accompanied them and to these was delegated the business of tracking the quarry , a feat beyond the senses of the Oparians . 
She made them build her a strong protection and shelter each night and keep a great fire burning before it from dusk to dawn . 
When she tired of walking they were forced to carry her upon an improvised litter , nor did one dare to question her authority or her right to such services . 
In fact they did not question either . 
For many days they marched , the apes following the trail easily and going a little distance ahead of the body of the caravan that they might warn the others of impending danger . 
It was during a noonday halt while all were lying resting after a tiresome march that one of the apes rose suddenly and sniffed the breeze . 
In a low guttural he cautioned the others to silence and a moment later was swinging quietly up wind into the jungle . 
La and the priests gathered silently together , the hideous little men fingering their knives and bludgeons , and awaited the return of the shaggy anthropoid . 
Nor had they long to wait before they saw him emerge from a leafy thicket and approach them . 
Straight to La he came and in the language of the great apes which was also the language of decadent Opar he addressed her . 
The great Tarmangani lies asleep there , he said , pointing in the direction from which he had just come . 
Come and we can kill him . 
Do not kill him , commanded La in cold tones . 
Bring the great Tarmangani to me alive and unhurt . 
Go but make no sound ! and she waved her hands to include all her followers . 
Cautiously the weird party crept through the jungle in the wake of the great ape until at last he halted them with a raised hand and pointed upward and a little ahead . 
Instantly the ape man became the center of a whirling , striking , biting maelstrom of horror . 
He fought nobly but the odds against him were too great . 
Slowly they overcame him though there was scarce one of them that did not feel the weight of his mighty fist or the rending of his fangs . 
Condemned To Torture and Death La had followed her company and when she saw them clawing and biting at Tarzan , she raised her voice and cautioned them not to kill him . 
Bring him to the place at which we stopped , she commanded and they carried Tarzan back to the little clearing and threw him down beneath a tree . 
Build me a shelter ! ordered La . 
We shall stop here tonight and tomorrow in the face of the Flaming God , La will offer up the heart of this defiler of the temple . 
The ape man looked upon the menacing creatures which surrounded him and snarled his defiance . 
He looked upon La and smiled . 
In the face of death he was unafraid . 
Where is the knife ? La asked him . 
I do not know , replied Tarzan . 
The man took it with him when he slipped away during the night . 
Of what good was your knife , anyway ? You can make another . 
Did you follow us all this way for nothing more than a knife ? Let me go and find him and I will bring it back to you . 
When the shelter was completed La had Tarzan transferred to it . 
And in the shelter of the hut , La paced to and fro beside the stoic ape man . 
Resigned to his fate was Tarzan . 
No hope of succor gleamed through the dead black of the death sentence hanging over him . 
He knew that his giant muscles could not part the many strands that bound his wrists and ankles , for he had strained often , but ineffectually for release . 
And La ? She fingered her knife and looked down upon her captive . 
She glared and muttered but she did not strike . 
Tonight , when it is dark I will torture him . 
Three times had Tarzan cheated the god of her fathers . 
At the thought La paused and knelt at his side . 
In her hand was a sharp knife . 
She placed its point against the ape man's side and pressed upon the hilt but Tarzan only smiled and shrugged his shoulders . 
How beautiful he was ! La bent low over him , looking into his eyes . 
How perfect was his figure . 
She compared it with those of the knurled and knotted men from whom she must choose a mate , and La shuddered at the thought . 
Dusk came and after dusk came night . 
A great fire blazed within the little thorn boma about the camp . 
She saw this giant and perfect form writhing amid the flames of the burning pyre . 
She saw those smiling lips , burned and blackened , falling away from the strong , white teeth . 
She saw the shock of black hair tousled upon Tarzan's well shaped head disappear in a spurt of flame . 
Tarzan lay quietly in his bonds . 
He suffered from thirst and from the cutting of the tight strands about his wrists and ankles but he made no complaint . 
A jungle beast was Tarzan with the stoicism of the beast and the intelligence of man . 
In the darkness La stooped above him . 
In her hand was a sharp knife and in her mind the determination to initiate his torture without further delay . 
Dagger in hand , La , the High Priestess , towered above the helpless creature that had dared to violate the sanctuary of her deity . 
There should be no torture there should be instant death . 
No longer should the defiler of the temple pollute the sight of the lord god almighty . 
A single stroke of the heavy blade and then the corpse to the flaming pyre without . 
The knife arm stiffened ready for the downward plunge , and then La , the woman , collapsed weakly upon the body of the man she loved . 
And Tarzan , untroubled by thoughts of the future , slept peacefully in La's embrace . 
At the first hint of dawn the chanting of the priests of Opar brought Tarzan to wakefulness . 
Initiated in low and subdued tones , the sound soon rose in volume to the open diapason of barbaric blood lust . 
Love me , Tarzan ! she cried . 
Love me , and you shall be saved . 
He was suffering the tortures of long restricted circulation . 
With an angry growl he rolled over with his back toward La . 
That was her answer ! The High Priestess leaped to her feet . 
A hot flush of shame mantled her cheek and then she went dead white and stepped to the shelter's entrance . 
Come , Priests of the Flaming God ! she cried , and make ready the sacrifice . 
The warped things advanced and entered the shelter . 
Behind them came La , swaying too but not in unison with the chanted cadence . 
White and drawn was the face of the High Priestess white and drawn with unrequited love and hideous terror of the moments to come . 
Yet stern in her resolve was La . 
The infidel should die ! The scorner of her love should pay the price upon the fiery altar . 
She saw them lay the perfect body there upon the rough branches . 
His hairy , bestial face was distorted in a yellow fanged grin of anticipatory enjoyment . 
His hands were cupped to receive the life blood of the victim the red nectar that at Opar would have filled the golden sacrificial goblets . 
La approached with upraised knife , her face turned toward the rising sun and upon her lips a prayer to the burning deity of her people . 
The High Priest looked questioningly toward her the brand was burning close to his hand and the faggots lay temptingly near . 
Tarzan closed his eyes and awaited the end . 
He knew that he would suffer , for he recalled the faint memories of past burns . 
He knew that he would suffer and die but he did not flinch . 
It is doubtful that the ape man even speculated upon what came after death . 
He felt La lean over him and he opened his eyes . 
He saw her white , drawn face and he saw tears blinding her eyes . 
Tarzan , my Tarzan ! she moaned , tell me that you love me that you will return to Opar with me and you shall live . 
Even in the face of the anger of my people I will save you . 
This last chance I give you . 
What is your answer ? At the last moment the woman in La had triumphed over the High Priestess of a cruel cult . 
With heaving bosom she leaned close above him . 
Yes or no ? she whispered . 
Through the jungle , out of the distance , came faintly a sound that brought a sudden light of hope to Tarzan's eyes . 
He raised his voice in a weird scream that sent La back from him a step or two . 
The impatient priest grumbled and switched the torch from one hand to the other at the same time holding it closer to the tinder at the base of the pyre . 
Your answer ! insisted La . 
What is your answer to the love of La of Opar ? Closer came the sound that had attracted Tarzan's attention and now the others heard it the shrill trumpeting of an elephant . 
As La looked wide eyed into Tarzan's face , there to read her fate for happiness or heartbreak , she saw an expression of concern shadow his features . 
You refuse La ! she cried . 
Then die ! The torch ! she commanded , turning toward the priest . 
Tarzan looked up into her face . 
Tantor is coming , he said . 
La knew only too well the insane ferocity of a bull elephant in MUST . 
She knew that Tarzan had not exaggerated . 
I cannot love you , La , said Tarzan in a low voice . 
I do not know why , for you are very beautiful . 
I could not go back and live in Opar I who have the whole broad jungle for my range . 
No , I cannot love you but I cannot see you die beneath the goring tusks of mad Tantor . 
Cut my bonds before it is too late . 
Already he is almost upon us . 
Cut them and I may yet save you . 
A little spiral of curling smoke rose from one corner of the pyre the flames licked upward , crackling . 
La stood there like a beautiful statue of despair gazing at Tarzan and at the spreading flames . 
In a moment they would reach out and grasp him . 
From the tangled forest came the sound of cracking limbs and crashing trunks Tantor was coming down upon them , a huge Juggernaut of the jungle . 
The priests were becoming uneasy . 
They cast apprehensive glances in the direction of the approaching elephant and then back at La . 
Fly ! she commanded them and then she stooped and cut the bonds securing her prisoner's feet and hands . 
In an instant Tarzan was upon the ground . 
The priests screamed out their rage and disappointment . 
He with the torch took a menacing step toward La and the ape man . 
Traitor ! He shrieked at the woman . 
For this you too shall die ! Raising his bludgeon he rushed upon the High Priestess but Tarzan was there before her . 
Leaping in to close quarters the ape man seized the upraised weapon and wrenched it from the hands of the frenzied fanatic and then the priest closed upon him with tooth and nail . 
La stood proudly with ready knife behind the ape man . 
No faint sign of fear marked her perfect brow only haughty disdain for her priests and admiration for the man she loved so hopelessly filled her thoughts . 
Suddenly upon this scene burst the mad bull a huge tusker , his little eyes inflamed with insane rage . 
The priests stood for an instant paralyzed with terror but Tarzan turned and gathering La in his arms raced for the nearest tree . 
Tantor bore down upon him trumpeting shrilly . 
La clung with both white arms about the ape man's neck . 
Momentarily baffled here , the huge elephant wheeled and bore down upon the hapless priests who had now scattered , terror stricken , in every direction . 
The nearest he gored and threw high among the branches of a tree . 
One he seized in the coils of his trunk and broke upon a huge bole , dropping the mangled pulp to charge , trumpeting , after another . 
Two he trampled beneath his huge feet and by then the others had disappeared into the jungle . 
Now Tantor turned his attention once more to Tarzan for one of the symptoms of madness is a revulsion of affection objects of sane love become the objects of insane hatred . 
Peculiar in the unwritten annals of the jungle was the proverbial love that had existed between the ape man and the tribe of Tantor . 
No elephant in all the jungle would harm the Tarmangani the white ape but with the madness of MUST upon him the great bull sought to destroy his long time play fellow . 
Back to the tree where La and Tarzan perched came Tantor , the elephant . 
He reared up with his forefeet against the bole and reached high toward them with his long trunk but Tarzan had foreseen this and clambered beyond the bull's longest reach . 
Failure but tended to further enrage the mad creature . 
He bellowed and trumpeted and screamed until the earth shook to the mighty volume of his noise . 
He put his head against the tree and pushed and the tree bent before his mighty strength yet still it held . 
The actions of Tarzan were peculiar in the extreme . 
Could he have slain him he would not have thought of doing so . 
Finding that the tree would not fall to his pushing , Tantor was but enraged the more . 
A huge creature was Tantor , an enormous bull in the full prime of all his stupendous strength . 
Mightily he strove until presently , to Tarzan's consternation , the great tree gave slowly at the roots . 
The ground rose in little mounds and ridges about the base of the bole , the tree tilted in another moment it would be uprooted and fall . 
It was a long and perilous leap . 
La closed her eyes and shuddered but when she opened them again she found herself safe and Tarzan whirling onward through the forest . 
A strange anomaly was La of Opar a creature of circumstance torn by conflicting emotions . 
Now the cruel and bloodthirsty creature of a heartless god and again a melting woman filled with compassion and tenderness . 
Sometimes the incarnation of jealousy and revenge and sometimes a sobbing maiden , generous and forgiving at once a virgin and a wanton but always a woman . 
She pressed her cheek close to Tarzan's shoulder . 
Slowly she turned her head until her hot lips were pressed against his flesh . 
She loved him and would gladly have died for him yet within an hour she had been ready to plunge a knife into his heart and might again within the coming hour . 
A hapless priest seeking shelter in the jungle chanced to show himself to enraged Tantor . 
The great beast turned to one side , bore down upon the crooked , little man , snuffed him out and then , diverted from his course , blundered away toward the south . 
In a few minutes even the noise of his trumpeting was lost in the distance . 
Tarzan dropped to the ground and La slipped to her feet from his back . 
Call your people together , said Tarzan . 
They will kill me , replied La . 
They will not kill you , contradicted the ape man . 
No one will kill you while Tarzan of the Apes is here . 
Call them and we will talk with them . 
La raised her voice in a weird , flutelike call that carried far into the jungle on every side . 
They came with scowling brows and threatening mien . 
When all had come Tarzan addressed them . 
Your La is safe , said the ape man . 
Had she slain me she would now herself be dead and many more of you but she spared me that I might save her . 
Go your way with her back to Opar , and Tarzan will go his way into the jungle . 
Let there be peace always between Tarzan and La . 
What is your answer ? The priests grumbled and shook their heads . 
They spoke together and La and Tarzan could see that they were not favorably inclined toward the proposition . 
They did not wish to take La back and they did wish to complete the sacrifice of Tarzan to the Flaming God . 
At last the ape man became impatient . 
La saved me that I might save you and her . 
I have served you better alive than I could have dead . 
If you are not all fools you will let me go my way in peace and you will return to Opar with La . 
I know not where the sacred knife is but you can fashion another . 
Had I not taken it from La you would have slain me and now your god must be glad that I took it since I have saved his priestess from love mad Tantor . 
Will you go back to Opar with La , promising that no harm shall befall her ? The priests gathered together in a little knot arguing and discussing . 
Seemingly there was to be no solution of the problem until another priest stepped forth and , raising his hand , addressed La . 
Cadj , the High Priest , he announced , would sacrifice you both to the Flaming God but all of us except Cadj would gladly return to Opar with our queen . 
You are many against one , spoke up Tarzan . 
Why should you not have your will ? Go your way with La to Opar and if Cadj interferes slay him . 
The priests of Opar welcomed this suggestion with loud cries of approval . 
To them it appeared nothing short of divine inspiration . 
They rushed forward and seized Cadj . 
They talked in loud menacing tones into his ear . 
They threatened him with bludgeon and knife until at last he acquiesced in their demands , though sullenly , and then Tarzan stepped close before Cadj . 
Priest , he said , La goes back to her temple under the protection of her priests and the threat of Tarzan of the Apes that whoever harms her shall die . 
Tarzan will go again to Opar before the next rains and if harm has befallen La , woe betide Cadj , the High Priest . 
Sullenly Cadj promised not to harm his queen . 
Protect her , cried Tarzan to the other Oparians . 
Protect her so that when Tarzan comes again he will find La there to greet him . 
La will be there to greet thee , exclaimed the High Priestess , and La will wait , longing , always longing , until you come again . 
Oh , tell me that you will come ! Who knows ? asked the ape man as he swung quickly into the trees and raced off toward the east . 
For a moment La stood looking after him , then her head drooped , a sigh escaped her lips and like an old woman she took up the march toward distant Opar . 
Two days elapsed following the theft of the jewels before Tarzan gave them a thought . 
Tarzan's brow clouded as he discovered that he had been despoiled . 
Though the spoor was two days old , and practically obliterated in many places , Tarzan followed it with comparative ease . 
Where a foot is placed an effluvium remains for a considerable time . 
Nor was Tarzan dependent alone upon his sense of smell . 
The man he followed was two days ahead of him when Tarzan took up the pursuit , and each day he gained upon the ape man . 
The latter , however , felt not the slightest doubt as to the outcome . 
Some day he would overhaul his quarry he could bide his time in peace until that day dawned . 
Doggedly he followed the faint spoor , pausing by day only to kill and eat , and at night only to sleep and refresh himself . 
These parties were of the collecting hordes of the Waziri and their allies which Basuli had scattered his messengers broadcast to summon . 
It was night when he halted outside the palisaded village of the Arab raider . 
Perched in the branches of a great tree he gazed down upon the life within the enclosure . 
To this place had the spoor led him . 
His quarry must be within but how was he to find him among so many huts ? Tarzan , although cognizant of his mighty powers , realized also his limitations . 
He knew that he could not successfully cope with great numbers in open battle . 
He must resort to the stealth and trickery of the wild beast , if he were to succeed . 
Sitting in the safety of his tree , munching upon the leg bone of Horta , the boar , Tarzan waited a favorable opportunity to enter the village . 
He saw white robed figures , and half naked blacks but not once did he see one who resembled the stealer of the gems . 
At his side hung a long , rawhide rope a natural and more dependable evolution from the grass rope of his childhood . 
Drawing the noose taut , he tested the solidity of its hold . 
Satisfied , the ape man ran nimbly up the vertical wall , aided by the rope which he clutched in both hands . 
Now he was within the village . 
Before him stretched a series of tents and native huts . 
The business of exploring each of them would be fraught with danger but danger was only a natural factor of each day's life it never appalled Tarzan . 
The chances appealed to him the chances of life and death , with his prowess and his faculties pitted against those of a worthy antagonist . 
It was not necessary that he enter each habitation through a door , a window or an open chink , his nose told him whether or not his prey lay within . 
For some time he found one disappointment following upon the heels of another in quick succession . 
No spoor of the Belgian was discernible . 
But at last he came to a tent where the smell of the thief was strong . 
Tarzan listened , his ear close to the canvas at the rear , but no sound came from within . 
At last he cut one of the pin ropes , raised the bottom of the canvas , and intruded his head within the interior . 
All was quiet and dark . 
Tarzan crawled cautiously within the scent of the Belgian was strong but it was not live scent . 
Even before he had examined the interior minutely , Tarzan knew that no one was within it . 
In one corner he found a pile of blankets and clothing scattered about but no pouch of pretty pebbles . 
Tarzan was not long in following the way that his prey had fled . 
Evidently he feared the inhabitants of the village , or at least his work had been of such a nature that he dared not risk detection . 
At the back of a native hut the spoor led through a small hole recently cut in the brush wall and into the dark interior beyond . 
Fearlessly , Tarzan followed the trail . 
On hands and knees , he crawled through the small aperture . 
Here he took up the spoor of the Belgian , followed it across the clearing , over the palisade , and out into the dark jungle beyond . 
Before the doorway squatted a black sentry . 
Werper approached him boldly , spoke a few words in his ear , handed him a package of tobacco , and passed into the hut . 
The black grinned and winked as the European disappeared within the darkness of the interior . 
Within , Werper called in French and in a low whisper Lady Greystoke ! It is I , M. Frecoult . 
Where are you ? But there was no response . 
Hastily the man felt around the interior , groping blindly through the darkness with outstretched hands . 
There was no one within ! Werper's astonishment surpassed words . 
Examination revealed the fact that the blotch was an opening cut in the wall . 
His own life depended upon the chance of his eluding , or outdistancing Achmet Zek , when that worthy should have discovered that he had escaped . 
His original plan had contemplated connivance in the escape of Lady Greystoke for two very good and sufficient reasons . 
The second reason was based upon the fact that only one direction of escape was safely open to him . 
He could not travel to the west because of the Belgian possessions which lay between him and the Atlantic . 
The south was closed to him by the feared presence of the savage ape man he had robbed . 
To the north lay the friends and allies of Achmet Zek . 
Only toward the east , through British East Africa , lay reasonable assurance of freedom . 
But now that Lady Greystoke had disappeared , though he still looked toward the east for hope , his chances were lessened , and another , subsidiary design completely dashed . 
Rightly , he inferred that thus had Lady Greystoke found the means to scale the wall , nor did he lose even a moment in following her lead . 
Once in the jungle he struck out directly eastward . 
A few miles south of him , Jane Clayton lay panting among the branches of a tree in which she had taken refuge from a prowling and hungry lioness . 
Her escape from the village had been much easier than she had anticipated . 
For an hour she had followed the old game trail toward the south , until there fell upon her trained hearing the stealthy padding of a stalking beast behind her . 
The nearest tree gave her instant sanctuary , for she was too wise in the ways of the jungle to chance her safety for a moment after discovering that she was being hunted . 
Werper , with better success , traveled slowly onward until dawn , when , to his chagrin , he discovered a mounted Arab upon his trail . 
It was one of Achmet Zek's minions , many of whom were scattered in all directions through the forest , searching for the fugitive Belgian . 
Jane Clayton's escape had not yet been discovered when Achmet Zek and his searchers set forth to overhaul Werper . 
With the discovery of the Arab close behind him , the Belgian hid in the foliage of a leafy bush . 
Here the trail ran straight for a considerable distance , and down the shady forest aisle , beneath the overarching branches of the trees , rode the white robed figure of the pursuer . 
Nearer and nearer he came . 
Werper crouched closer to the ground behind the leaves of his hiding place . 
Across the trail a vine moved . 
Werper's eyes instantly centered upon the spot . 
There was no wind to stir the foliage in the depths of the jungle . 
In the mind of the Belgian only the presence of a sinister and malevolent force could account for the phenomenon . 
The man's eyes bored steadily into the screen of leaves upon the opposite side of the trail . 
Gradually a form took shape beyond them a tawny form , grim and terrible , with yellow green eyes glaring fearsomely across the narrow trail straight into his . 
Werper could have screamed in fright , but up the trail was coming the messenger of another death , equally sure and no less terrible . 
He remained silent , almost paralyzed by fear . 
Across the trail from Werper the lion crouched for the spring , when suddenly his attention was attracted toward the horseman . 
The Belgian saw the massive head turn in the direction of the raider and his heart all but ceased its beating as he awaited the result of this interruption . 
At a walk the horseman approached . 
On he came , his neck arched , champing at the bit between his teeth . 
The Belgian turned his eyes again toward the lion . 
The beast's whole attention now seemed riveted upon the horseman . 
They were abreast the lion now , and still the brute did not spring . 
Could he be but waiting for them to pass before returning his attention to the original prey ? Werper shuddered and half rose . 
At the same instant the lion sprang from his place of concealment , full upon the mounted man . 
But he did not flee alone . 
As the frightened beast had pressed in upon him , Werper had not been slow to note the quickly emptied saddle and the opportunity it presented . 
A half hour later a naked giant , swinging easily through the lower branches of the trees , paused , and with raised head , and dilating nostrils sniffed the morning air . 
The smell of blood fell strong upon his senses , and mingled with it was the scent of Numa , the lion . 
The giant cocked his head upon one side and listened . 
From a short distance up the trail came the unmistakable noises of the greedy feeding of a lion . 
The crunching of bones , the gulping of great pieces , the contented growling , all attested the nearness of the king at table . 
Tarzan approached the spot , still keeping to the branches of the trees . 
Halting upon a low branch just above the lion Tarzan looked down upon the grisly scene . 
Could this unrecognizable thing be the man he had been trailing ? The ape man wondered . 
From time to time he had descended to the trail and verified his judgment by the evidence of his scent that the Belgian had followed this game trail toward the east . 
Now he proceeded beyond the lion and his feast , again descended and examined the ground with his nose . 
There was no scent spoor here of the man he had been trailing . 
Tarzan returned to the tree . 
With keen eyes he searched the ground about the mutilated corpse for a sign of the missing pouch of pretty pebbles but naught could he see of it . 
He scolded Numa and tried to drive the great beast away but only angry growls rewarded his efforts . 
He tore small branches from a nearby limb and hurled them at his ancient enemy . 
Numa looked up with bared fangs , grinning hideously , but he did not rise from his kill . 
Then Tarzan fitted an arrow to his bow , and drawing the slim shaft far back let drive with all the force of the tough wood that only he could bend . 
As the arrow sank deeply into his side , Numa leaped to his feet with a roar of mingled rage and pain . 
He leaped futilely at the grinning ape man , tore at the protruding end of the shaft , and then , springing into the trail , paced back and forth beneath his tormentor . 
Again Tarzan loosed a swift bolt . 
This time the missile , aimed with care , lodged in the lion's spine . 
The great creature halted in its tracks , and lurched awkwardly forward upon its face , paralyzed . 
The Arab garments aroused no doubt as to the man's identity , since he had trailed him into the Arab camp and out again , where he might easily have acquired the apparel . 
He confined his attentions to a careful search for the pouch , but nowhere upon or about the corpse was any sign of the missing article or its contents . 
The ape man was disappointed possibly not so much because of the loss of the colored pebbles as with Numa for robbing him of the pleasures of revenge . 
Wondering what could have become of his possessions , the ape man turned slowly back along the trail in the direction from which he had come . 
In his mind he revolved a plan to enter and search the Arab camp , after darkness had again fallen . 
Scarcely had he quitted the trail when a tall , black warrior , moving at a dogged trot , passed toward the east . 
It was Mugambi , searching for his mistress . 
He continued along the trail , halting to examine the body of the dead lion . 
An expression of puzzlement crossed his features as he bent to search for the wounds which had caused the death of the jungle lord . 
Tarzan had removed his arrows , but to Mugambi the proof of death was as strong as though both the lighter missiles and the spear still protruded from the carcass . 
The black looked furtively about him . 
The body was still warm , and from this fact he reasoned that the killer was close at hand , yet no sign of living man appeared . 
Mugambi shook his head , and continued along the trail , but with redoubled caution . 
And now it happened that Abdul Mourak had halted for a short rest at noon upon this very day and along the same trail that Werper and Mugambi were following toward the east . 
It was shortly after the soldiers had dismounted that the Belgian , unaware of their presence , rode his tired mount almost into their midst , before he had discovered them . 
Instantly he was surrounded , and a volley of questions hurled at him , as he was pulled from his horse and led toward the presence of the commander . 
A half hour later they returned , dragging Mugambi among them . 
A few moments later Mugambi and Werper were marched away under guard , and the Belgian learned for the first time , that he too was a prisoner rather than a guest . 
In vain he protested against such treatment , until a strapping soldier struck him across the mouth and threatened to shoot him if he did not desist . 
Thus he disarmed their suspicions , and each day found a slight relaxation of their watchfulness over him . 
But there came a time when he learned a very surprising thing , by accident . 
The party had camped early in the afternoon of a sultry day , upon the banks of a clear and beautiful stream . 
Now Mugambi had been to London with his master . 
He was not the unsophisticated savage that his apparel proclaimed him . 
He had mingled with the cosmopolitan hordes of the greatest city in the world he had visited museums and inspected shop windows and , besides , he was a shrewd and intelligent man . 
Werper saw that Mugambi had seen the pouch and the stones . 
Hastily he gathered up the precious gems and returned them to their container , while Mugambi , assuming an air of indifference , strolled down to the river for his bath . 
Tarzan Again Leads the Mangani Achmet Zek with two of his followers had circled far to the south to intercept the flight of his deserting lieutenant , Werper . 
Others had spread out in various directions , so that a vast circle had been formed by them during the night , and now they were beating in toward the center . 
Achmet and the two with him halted for a short rest just before noon . 
They squatted beneath the trees upon the southern edge of a clearing . 
The chief of the raiders was in ill humor . 
Well , he still had the woman . 
She would bring a fair price in the north , and there was , too , the buried treasure beside the ruins of the Englishman's house . 
A slight noise in the jungle upon the opposite side of the clearing brought Achmet Zek to immediate and alert attention . 
He gathered his rifle in readiness for instant use , at the same time motioning his followers to silence and concealment . 
Crouching behind the bushes the three waited , their eyes fastened upon the far side of the open space . 
Presently the foliage parted and a woman's face appeared , glancing fearfully from side to side . 
A moment later , evidently satisfied that no immediate danger lurked before her , she stepped out into the clearing in full view of the Arab . 
Achmet Zek caught his breath with a muttered exclamation of incredulity and an imprecation . 
The woman was the prisoner he had thought safely guarded at his camp ! Apparently she was alone , but Achmet Zek waited that he might make sure of it before seizing her . 
Slowly Jane Clayton started across the clearing . 
Though she was almost despairing of ever reaching safety she still was determined to fight on , until death or success terminated her endeavors . 
The woman wheeled about to see what new danger menaced her from behind , and as she did so a great , anthropoid ape waddled into view . 
Behind him came another and another but Lady Greystoke did not wait to learn how many more of the hideous creatures were so close upon her trail . 
With a smothered scream she rushed toward the opposite jungle , and as she reached the bushes there , Achmet Zek and his two henchmen rose up and seized her . 
At the same instant a naked , brown giant dropped from the branches of a tree at the right of the clearing . 
Achmet Zek was dragging Jane Clayton toward his tethered horse . 
His two men were hastily unfastening all three mounts . 
The woman , struggling to escape the Arab , turned and saw the ape man running toward her . 
A glad light of hope illuminated her face . 
Thank God that you have come in time . 
Behind Tarzan came the great apes , wondering , but obedient to his summons . 
The Arabs saw that they would not have time to mount and make their escape before the beasts and the man were upon them . 
Calling to his men to follow his example he raised his rifle and leveled it upon the charging giant . 
Back to the village they rode , and once again Lady Greystoke found herself incarcerated in the filthy , little hut from which she had thought to have escaped for good . 
But this time she was not only guarded by an additional sentry , but bound as well . 
Singly and in twos the searchers who had ridden out with Achmet Zek upon the trail of the Belgian , returned empty handed . 
With the report of each the raider's rage and chagrin increased , until he was in such a transport of ferocious anger that none dared approach him . 
With the escape of the Arabs the great apes had turned their attention to their fallen comrades . 
One was dead , but another and the great white ape still breathed . 
The hairy monsters gathered about these two , grumbling and muttering after the fashion of their kind . 
Tarzan was the first to regain consciousness . 
Sitting up , he looked about him . 
Blood was flowing from a wound in his shoulder . 
The shock had thrown him down and dazed him but he was far from dead . 
Rising slowly to his feet he let his eyes wander toward the spot where last he had seen the she , who had aroused within his savage breast such strange emotions . 
Where is she ? he asked . 
The Tarmangani took her away , replied one of the apes . 
Who are you who speak the language of the Mangani ? I am Tarzan , replied the ape man mighty hunter , greatest of fighters . 
When I roar , the jungle is silent and trembles with terror . 
I am Tarzan of the Apes . 
I have been away but now I have come back to my people . 
Yes , spoke up an old ape , he is Tarzan . 
It is well that he has come back . 
Now we shall have good hunting . 
The other apes came closer and sniffed at the ape man . 
He too was but slightly wounded , a bullet , grazing his skull , having stunned him , so that when he regained consciousness he was apparently as fit as ever . 
The apes told Tarzan that they had been traveling toward the east when the scent spoor of the she had attracted them and they had stalked her . 
Now they wished to continue upon their interrupted march but Tarzan preferred to follow the Arabs and take the woman from them . 
Another circumstance which decided him to postpone pursuit of the Arabs was the painfulness of his wound . 
It would be better to wait until that had healed before he pitted himself again against the guns of the Tarmangani . 
To him she was as any other jungle she , and he had set his heart upon her as his mate . 
The matter of the pouch of jewels also occupied his thoughts to some extent , so that he found a double urge for his return to the camp of the raiders . 
He would obtain possession of both his pretty pebbles and the she . 
He spoke to his fellow apes upon the matter , in an attempt to persuade them to accompany him but all except Taglat and Chulk refused . 
The latter was young and strong , endowed with a greater intelligence than his fellows , and therefore the possessor of better developed powers of imagination . 
To him the expedition savored of adventure , and so appealed , strongly . 
Taglat was no longer young but he was still a formidable beast , mightily muscled , cruel , and , because of his greater experience , crafty and cunning . 
Too , he was of giant proportions , the very weight of his huge bulk serving ofttimes to discount in his favor the superior agility of a younger antagonist . 
These two , then , were to be Tarzan's companions upon his return to the village of Achmet Zek . 
As they set off , the balance of the tribe vouchsafed them but a parting stare , and then resumed the serious business of feeding . 
Tarzan found difficulty in keeping the minds of his fellows set upon the purpose of their adventure , for the mind of an ape lacks the power of long sustained concentration . 
There are so many things to distract one's attention along the way . 
Unless Tarzan desired to fight there was nothing to do but wait until Chulk had exhausted the storehouse , and this he did , only to discover that Taglat was now missing . 
After a considerable search , he found that worthy gentleman contemplating the sufferings of an injured rodent he had pounced upon . 
Again and again he repeated this operation , until , tiring of the sport , he ended the sufferings of his plaything by devouring it . 
It was not always an easy thing to maintain in the vacillating minds of the anthropoids a sustained interest in their venture . 
Chulk was wearying of the continued marching and the infrequency and short duration of the rests . 
It was mid afternoon of a sultry , tropical day when the keen senses of the three warned them of the proximity of the Arab camp . 
Stealthily they approached , keeping to the dense tangle of growing things which made concealment easy to their uncanny jungle craft . 
First came the giant ape man , his smooth , brown skin glistening with the sweat of exertion in the close , hot confines of the jungle . 
Behind him crept Chulk and Taglat , grotesque and shaggy caricatures of their godlike leader . 
A horseman , white burnoosed , rode out through the gateway of the village . 
Tarzan , whispering to Chulk and Taglat to remain where they were , swung , monkey like , through the trees in the direction of the trail the Arab was riding . 
From one jungle giant to the next he sped with the rapidity of a squirrel and the silence of a ghost . 
The Arab rode slowly onward , unconscious of the danger hovering in the trees behind him . 
The ape man made a slight detour and increased his speed until he had reached a point upon the trail in advance of the horseman . 
Here he halted upon a leafy bough which overhung the narrow , jungle trail . 
On came the victim , humming a wild air of the great desert land of the north . 
The Arab passed beneath the overhanging bough , there was a slight rustling of the leaves above , the horse snorted and plunged as a brown skinned creature dropped upon its rump . 
A pair of mighty arms encircled the Arab and he was dragged from his saddle to the trail . 
Ten minutes later the ape man , carrying the outer garments of an Arab bundled beneath an arm , rejoined his companions . 
He exhibited his trophies to them , explaining in low gutturals the details of his exploit . 
Chulk and Taglat fingered the fabrics , smelled of them , and , placing them to their ears , tried to listen to them . 
Then Tarzan led them back through the jungle to the trail , where the three hid themselves and waited . 
Nor had they long to wait before two of Achmet Zek's blacks , clothed in habiliments similar to their master's , came down the trail on foot , returning to the camp . 
One moment they were laughing and talking together the next they lay stretched in death upon the trail , three mighty engines of destruction bending over them . 
Tarzan removed their outer garments as he had removed those of his first victim , and again retired with Chulk and Taglat to the greater seclusion of the tree they had first selected . 
Until dark they remained where they were , for from his point of vantage , Tarzan could view the enclosure within the palisade . 
He marked the position of the hut in which he had first discovered the scent spoor of the she he sought . 
He saw the two sentries standing before its doorway , and he located the habitation of Achmet Zek , where something told him he would most likely find the missing pouch and pebbles . 
Chulk and Taglat were , at first , greatly interested in their wonderful raiment . 
They fingered the fabric , smelled of it , and regarded each other intently with every mark of satisfaction and pride . 
The older ape , pessimistic by nature , recognized no such thing as humor . 
Creatures laid their paws upon him for but two things to search for fleas and to attack . 
The pulling of the Tarmangani scented thing about his head and eyes could not be for the performance of the former act therefore it must be the latter . 
He was attacked ! Chulk had attacked him . 
With a snarl he was at the other's throat , not even waiting to lift the woolen veil which obscured his vision . 
The ape seized it , and while Tarzan held tightly to the upper end , the anthropoid climbed quickly up the shaft until with one paw he grasped the top of the wall . 
To scramble then to Tarzan's side was the work of but an instant . 
In like manner Taglat was conducted to their sides , and a moment later the three dropped silently within the enclosure . 
Chulk and Taglat , their hairy faces pressed close to that of the patrician , sniffed with him . 
Each caught the scent spoor of the woman within , and each reacted according to his temperament and his habits of thought . 
The she was for Tarzan all that he desired was to bury his snout in the foodstuffs of the Tarmangani . 
He had come to eat his fill without labor Tarzan had told him that that should be his reward , and he was satisfied . 
But Taglat's wicked , bloodshot eyes , narrowed to the realization of the nearing fulfillment of his carefully nursed plan . 
Now , he licked his chops , and he made a sickening , sucking noise with his flabby lips as he drew in his breath . 
Satisfied that the she was where he had hoped to find her , Tarzan led his apes toward the tent of Achmet Zek . 
To the rear of the tent they made their way . 
Within , Achmet Zek conversed with several of his lieutenants . 
And so it was that a day or so after Mugambi had disappeared , Werper asked for an audience with Abdul Mourak . 
Abdul Mourak eyed him , frowningly . 
What do you want now ? he asked . 
My liberty , replied Werper . 
And you disturbed me thus to tell me what any fool might know , he said . 
I can pay for it , said Werper . 
Pay for it ? he cried . 
What with the rags that you have upon your back ? Or , perhaps you are concealing beneath your coat a thousand pounds of ivory . 
Get out ! You are a fool . 
Do not bother me again or I shall have you whipped . 
His liberty and perhaps his life depended upon his success . 
Listen to me , he pleaded . 
Where have you so much gold as that ? I know where it is hid , said Werper . 
Promise , and I will lead you to it if ten loads is enough ? Abdul Mourak had ceased to laugh . 
He was eyeing the Belgian intently . 
The fellow seemed sane enough yet ten loads of gold ! It was preposterous . 
The Abyssinian thought in silence for a moment . 
Well , and if I promise , he said . 
How far is this gold ? A long week's march to the south , replied Werper . 
I know it is there , for I saw it buried with my own eyes . 
And more there are not only ten loads , but as many as fifty men may carry . 
It is all yours if you will promise to see me safely delivered into the protection of the English . 
You will stake your life against the finding of the gold ? asked Abdul . 
Werper assented with a nod . 
I am satisfied , said Werper . 
Tomorrow we start ? Abdul Mourak nodded , and the Belgian returned to his guards . 
The following day the Abyssinian soldiers were surprised to receive an order which turned their faces from the northeast to the south . 
Through the opening stepped the ape man , and close behind him came the huge Chulk but Taglat did not follow them . 
Instead he turned and slunk through the darkness toward the hut where the she who had arrested his brutish interest lay securely bound . 
Before the doorway the sentries sat upon their haunches , conversing in monotones . 
Creeping silently toward the sentries , a white burnoosed figure approached the shadows at one end of the hut . 
The meager intellect of the creature denied it the advantage it might have taken of its disguise . 
Where it could have walked boldly to the very sides of the sentries , it chose rather to sneak upon them , unseen , from the rear . 
It came to the corner of the hut and peered around . 
The eaves of the hut were just above the heads of the sentries from them he could leap upon the Tarmangani , unseen . 
Taglat withdrew a few paces to the rear of the hut , gathered himself for the effort , ran quickly forward and leaped high into the air . 
The sentries , hearing the crashing of the roof poles , leaped to their feet and rushed into the hut . 
Jane Clayton tried to roll aside as the great form lit upon the floor so close to her that one foot pinned her clothing to the ground . 
The ape , feeling the movement beside him , reached down and gathered the girl in the hollow of one mighty arm . 
The two sentries were now within the hut , but hesitating because of doubt as to the nature of the cause of the disturbance . 
Their eyes , not yet accustomed to the darkness of the interior , told them nothing , nor did they hear any sound , for the ape stood silently awaiting their attack . 
Lowering his head , he charged straight for the two sentries who blocked the doorway . 
The speed and strength of her rescuer filled Jane Clayton with wonder . 
Still she did not give up hope . 
At the palisade the beast did not even hesitate . 
A single mighty leap carried it to the top , where it poised but for an instant before dropping to the ground upon the opposite side . 
In a little moonlit glade , a mile or so from the camp of the raiders , her rescuer halted and dropped her to the ground . 
His roughness surprised her , but still she had no doubts . 
Tarzan , entering the tent of Achmet Zek , searched the interior thoroughly . 
He tore the bed to pieces and scattered the contents of box and bag about the floor . 
He investigated whatever his eyes discovered , nor did those keen organs overlook a single article within the habitation of the raider chief but no pouch or pretty pebbles rewarded his thoroughness . 
So long as Taglat did not cause interference with his plans , Tarzan was indifferent to his absence . 
As he approached the hut , the ape man noticed that a crowd had collected about the entrance . 
As Chulk waddled off , keeping to the shadows , Tarzan advanced boldly toward the excited group before the doorway of the hut . 
Tarzan of the Apes in all his savage life had never been accustomed to pause in argument with an antagonist . 
Using the Arab as a weapon , Tarzan forced his way quickly to the doorway , and a moment later was within the hut . 
A hasty examination revealed the fact that it was empty , and his sense of smell discovered , too , the scent spoor of Taglat , the ape . 
Tarzan uttered a low , ominous growl . 
Those who were pressing forward at the doorway to seize him , fell back as the savage notes of the bestial challenge smote upon their ears . 
They looked at one another in surprise and consternation . 
A man had entered the hut alone , and yet with their own ears they had heard the voice of a wild beast within . 
When the Arabs finally mustered courage to enter the hut , after firing several volleys through the walls , they found the interior deserted . 
At the same time Tarzan , at the far end of the village , sought for Chulk but the ape was nowhere to be found . 
Tarzan , roaming the jungle in search of the trail of Taglat and the she , traveled swiftly . 
In a little moonlit glade ahead of him the great ape was bending over the prostrate form of the woman Tarzan sought . 
The beast was tearing at the bonds that confined her ankles and wrists , pulling and gnawing upon the cords . 
He would eat and sleep , and then set forth again . 
The jungle was wide but wide too were the experience and cunning of Tarzan . 
Taglat might travel far but Tarzan would find him in the end , though he had to search every tree in the mighty forest . 
Soliloquizing thus , the ape man followed the spoor of Bara , the deer , the unfortunate upon which he had decided to satisfy his hunger . 
There he crouched , a savage beast of prey , awaiting the coming of its victim . 
If he were unable to do it by means of physical prowess , he had at his command another and a greater power his shrewd intelligence . 
And so , on came the running deer , straight into the jaws of death . 
The ape man turned so that his back was toward the approaching animal . 
He poised with bent knees upon the gently swaying limb above the trail , timing with keen ears the nearing hoof beats of frightened Bara . 
In a moment the victim flashed beneath the limb and at the same instant the ape man above sprang out and down upon its back . 
The weight of the man's body carried the deer to the ground . 
It stumbled forward once in a futile effort to rise , and then mighty muscles dragged its head far back , gave the neck a vicious wrench , and Bara was dead . 
Nor was it long before the cause of Bara's fright became evident to Tarzan , for presently came the unmistakable sounds of approaching horsemen . 
Nor did he neglect the trail beneath while he satisfied his hunger . 
So the Abyssinians and the Belgian marched southward and Tarzan of the Apes swung silently after them through the swaying branches of the middle terrace . 
A two days' march brought them to a level plain beyond which lay mountains a plain which Tarzan remembered and which aroused within him vague half memories and strange longings . 
Out upon the plain the horsemen rode , and at a safe distance behind them crept the ape man , taking advantage of such cover as the ground afforded . 
Beside a charred pile of timbers the Abyssinians halted , and Tarzan , sneaking close and concealing himself in nearby shrubbery , watched them in wonderment . 
He saw them digging up the earth , and he wondered if they had hidden meat there in the past and now had come for it . 
Then he recalled how he had buried his pretty pebbles , and the suggestion that had caused him to do it . 
Something stirred in the ape man's mind as he looked long upon the golden ingots . 
The things must be theirs . 
Werper was stealing them as he had stolen Tarzan's pouch of pebbles . 
The ape man's eyes blazed in anger . 
He would like to find the black men and lead them against these thieves . 
He wondered where their village might be . 
Abdul Mourak , always watchful , was the first to see them , but already they were halfway across the open . 
It is Achmet Zek and his raiders , he whispered . 
They are come for the gold . 
Someone had forestalled him another had come for the treasure ahead of him . 
The Arab was crazed by rage . 
Recently everything had gone against him . 
He had lost the jewels , the Belgian , and for the second time he had lost the Englishwoman . 
Now some one had come to rob him of this treasure which he had thought as safe from disturbance here as though it never had been mined . 
He cared not whom the thieves might be . 
As the pursued and the pursuer raced madly toward the distant forest the battle behind them raged with bloody savageness . 
No quarter was asked or given by either the ferocious Abyssinians or the murderous cut throats of Achmet Zek . 
Numerically the men of Achmet Zek were superior , and slowly but surely the soldiers of Menelek were being exterminated . 
To Tarzan the result was immaterial . 
He watched with but a single purpose to escape the ring of blood mad fighters and be away after the Belgian and his pouch . 
As the Abyssinian tumbled from his saddle the possibility of escape which was represented by the riderless horse electrified the ape man to instant action . 
Before the frightened beast could gather himself for flight a naked giant was astride his back . 
A strong hand had grasped his bridle rein , and the surprised Arab discovered a new foe in the saddle of him , whom he had slain . 
But this enemy wielded no sword , and his spear and bow remained upon his back . 
The Arab , recovered from his first surprise , dashed in with raised sword to annihilate this presumptuous stranger . 
For another hour the battle raged nor did it cease until the last of the Abyssinians lay dead upon the ground , or had galloped off toward the north in flight . 
But a handful of men escaped , among them Abdul Mourak . 
The victorious raiders collected about the pile of golden ingots which the Abyssinians had uncovered , and there awaited the return of their leader . 
As they conversed their terror grew , while from the concealment of the reeds along the river below them a small party of naked , black warriors watched their every move . 
For a half hour the raiders awaited Achmet Zek's return , their fear of the earlier return of the ghost of Tarzan constantly undermining their loyalty to and fear of their chief . 
Finally one among them voiced the desires of all when he announced that he intended riding forth toward the forest in search of Achmet Zek . 
Instantly every man of them sprang to his mount . 
The gold will be safe here , cried one . 
We have killed the Abyssinians and there are no others to carry it away . 
Werper had still been in advance of Achmet Zek when he reached the forest but the latter , better mounted , was gaining upon him . 
Riding with the reckless courage of desperation the Belgian urged his mount to greater speed even within the narrow confines of the winding , game trail that the beast was following . 
Behind him he could hear the voice of Achmet Zek crying to him to halt but Werper only dug the spurs deeper into the bleeding sides of his panting mount . 
Two hundred yards within the forest a broken branch lay across the trail . 
Werper , going over his head , rolled a few yards farther on , scrambled to his feet and ran back . 
Instantly the Belgian ceased his efforts with the dying animal at his feet , and seizing his rifle , dropped behind the horse and fired at the oncoming Arab . 
His bullet , going low , struck Achmet Zek's horse in the breast , bringing him down a hundred yards from where Werper lay preparing to fire a second shot . 
And there the two lay , alternately firing at and cursing each other , while from behind the Arab , Tarzan of the Apes approached to the edge of the forest . 
Keeping to one side of the trail , the ape man came presently to a point where he could look down in comparative safety upon the fighters . 
Werper had fired all but a single cartridge , when , during a lull in the fighting , he called aloud to his opponent . 
Achmet Zek , he cried , Allah alone knows which one of us may leave our bones to rot where he lies upon this trail today if we keep up our foolish battle . 
You wish the contents of the pouch I wear about my waist , and I wish my life and my liberty even more than I do the jewels . 
Let us each , then , take that which he most desires and go our separate ways in peace . 
Then I will go away , leaving the pouch to you , and you will let me go in safety . 
I want only my life , and my freedom . 
The Arab thought in silence for a moment . 
His reply was influenced by the fact that he had expended his last shot . 
Go your way , then , he growled , leaving the pouch in plain sight behind you . 
See , I lay my gun thus , with the butt toward you . 
Werper removed the pouch from about his waist . 
Sorrowfully and affectionately he let his fingers press the hard outlines of the contents . 
But Achmet Zek was no fool to expose himself to the blackened honor of a thief and a murderer . 
Thus Achmet Zek advanced until he had come opposite the dead horse of his enemy . 
A single look he took at the stones lying in his hand . 
His eyes narrowed , a curse broke from his lips , and he hurled the small objects upon the ground , disdainfully . 
Above , Tarzan watched in wonderment . 
He had been curious to discover what all the pow wow about his pouch had meant . 
Jane Clayton and the Beasts of the Jungle Mugambi , after his successful break for liberty , had fallen upon hard times . 
A few days' rest would accomplish wonders for him , he knew , and he could ill afford to sacrifice his chances for a safe return by setting forth handicapped by weakness . 
One day , as he hunted , a pair of savage eyes discovered him from the concealment of the branches of a great tree beneath which the black warrior passed . 
Bloodshot , wicked eyes they were , set in a fierce and hairy face . 
The creature was Chulk , and he looked down upon the unconscious man more in curiosity than in hate . 
The wearing of the Arab burnoose which Tarzan had placed upon his person had aroused in the mind of the anthropoid a desire for similar mimicry of the Tarmangani . 
The burnoose , though , had obstructed his movements and proven such a nuisance that the ape had long since torn it from him and thrown it away . 
Now , however , he saw a Gomangani arrayed in less cumbersome apparel a loin cloth , a few copper ornaments and a feather headdress . 
These were more in line with Chulk's desires than a flowing robe which was constantly getting between one's legs , and catching upon every limb and bush along the leafy trail . 
Chulk eyed the pouch , which , suspended over Mugambi's shoulder , swung beside his black hip . 
Nor was it long before the opportunity came . 
Watching from above , Chulk saw the black warrior stretched thus in the unconsciousness of sleep one sultry afternoon . 
Creeping out upon an overhanging branch the anthropoid dropped to the ground within the boma . 
He approached the sleeper upon padded feet which gave forth no sound , and with an uncanny woodcraft that rustled not a leaf or a grass blade . 
Pausing beside the man , the ape bent over and examined his belongings . 
It was some time after Mugambi awoke that he missed the pouch . 
Instantly he was all excitement . 
In the trampled turf beside him was the faint impress of huge , manlike feet . 
Mugambi raised his brows as the truth dawned upon him . 
Hastily leaving the boma he searched in all directions about the enclosure for some farther sign of the tell tale spoor . 
Tarzan might have followed them but no ordinary mortal could perceive them , or perceiving , translate . 
The ape's back was toward the lion . 
He did not see the broad head , fringed by its rough mane , protruding through the leafy wall . 
Seizing the lion by the mane , Taglat buried his yellowed fangs deep in the monster's throat , growling hideously through the muffled gag of blood and hair . 
For another moment he stood with fierce eyes roving to and fro about the clearing . 
At last they halted for a second time upon the girl . 
A low growl rumbled from the lion's throat . 
His lower jaw rose and fell , and the slaver drooled and dripped upon the dead face of Taglat . 
Like two yellow green augurs , wide and unblinking , the terrible eyes remained fixed upon Jane Clayton . 
Beneficent Fate maintained her in happy unconsciousness of the dread presence sneaking stealthily upon her . 
She did not know when the lion paused at her side . 
She did not hear the sniffing of his nostrils as he smelled about her . 
She did not feel the heat of the fetid breath upon her face , nor the dripping of the saliva from the frightful jaws half opened so close above her . 
Finally the lion lifted a forepaw and turned the body of the girl half over , then he stood again eyeing her as though still undetermined whether life was extinct or not . 
Some noise or odor from the nearby jungle attracted his attention for a moment . 
It was upon this scene that Jane Clayton at last opened her eyes . 
Inured to danger , she maintained her self possession in the face of the startling surprise which her new found consciousness revealed to her . 
She neither cried out nor moved a muscle , until she had taken in every detail of the scene which lay within the range of her vision . 
Wonderingly she moved a hand . 
What miracle had been performed ? It was not bound ! Stealthily and noiselessly she moved her other limbs , only to discover that she was free . 
For a moment Jane Clayton was overwhelmed with joy and thanksgiving but only for a moment . 
The nearest tree was a hundred feet away , the lion less than fifty . 
And yet , too , there was another possibility a chance which hinged entirely upon the unknown temper of the great beast . 
His belly already partially filled , he might watch with indifference the departure of the girl yet could she afford to chance so improbable a contingency ? She doubted it . 
Upon the other hand she was no more minded to allow this frail opportunity for life to entirely elude her without taking or attempting to take some advantage from it . 
She watched the lion narrowly . 
He could not see her without turning his head more than halfway around . 
She would attempt a ruse . 
Here she lay breathless watching the lion but the beast gave no indication that he had heard aught to arouse his suspicions . 
Again she rolled over , gaining a few more feet and again she lay in rigid contemplation of the beast's back . 
During what seemed hours to her tense nerves , Jane Clayton continued these tactics , and still the lion fed on in apparent unconsciousness that his second prey was escaping him . 
She was halfway over in her turn , her face away from the lion , when he suddenly turned his great head and fastened his eyes upon her . 
For a long time neither the girl nor the lion moved . 
The beast lay motionless , his head turned upon his shoulders and his glaring eyes fixed upon the rigid victim , now nearly fifty yards away . 
The girl stared back straight into those cruel orbs , daring not to move even a muscle . 
Those who have spent lifetimes hunting the big game of Africa will tell you that scarcely any other creature in the world attains the speed of a charging lion . 
For some time the lion paced , growling and moaning , beneath the tree in which Jane Clayton crouched , panting and trembling . 
The sun was high in the heavens when she at last awoke , and beneath her was no sign either of Numa or the hyenas . 
Only the clean picked bones of the ape , scattered about the ground , attested the fact of what had transpired in this seemingly peaceful spot but a few hours before . 
The day was half spent when there broke unexpectedly upon her startled ears the sound of a rifle shot not far ahead of her . 
As she paused to listen , this first shot was followed by another and another and another . 
Almost instantly Jane Clayton recognized the man as M. Jules Frecoult , who so recently had been a guest in her home . 
She was upon the point of calling to him in glad relief when she saw him leap quickly to one side and hide himself in the thick verdure at the trail's side . 
It was evident that he was being followed by an enemy , and so Jane Clayton kept silent , lest she distract Frecoult's attention , or guide his foe to his hiding place . 
Scarcely had Frecoult hidden himself than the figure of a white robed Arab crept silently along the trail in pursuit . 
From her hiding place , Jane Clayton could see both men plainly . 
Achmet Zek paused in the middle of the trail . 
His keen eyes scanned every bush and tree within the radius of his vision . 
His tall figure presented a perfect target to the perfidious assassin . 
I am shocked , said Werper , in well simulated sympathy but I am not surprised . 
That devil there , and he pointed toward the body of Achmet Zek , has terrorized the entire country . 
Your Waziri are either exterminated , or have been driven out of their country , far to the south . 
The men of Achmet Zek occupy the plain about your former home there is neither sanctuary nor escape in that direction . 
It is our only hope , Lady Greystoke , and you must place your entire faith in me if I am to succeed . 
To his consternation , there was no sign of them in the garments of Achmet Zek . 
Puzzled , disappointed and angry , he at last returned to the girl . 
The wallet is gone , he explained , crisply , and I dare not delay longer in search of it . 
We must reach the camp before the returning raiders . 
Again the girl was deceived by the apparent frankness of the Belgian . 
Calling aloud to those who tended the gates , Werper , grasping Jane Clayton by the arm , walked boldly across the clearing . 
Those who opened the gates to him permitted their surprise to show clearly in their expressions . 
That the discredited and hunted lieutenant should be thus returning fearlessly of his own volition , seemed to disarm them quite as effectually as his manner toward Lady Greystoke had deceived her . 
The sentries at the gate returned Werper's salutations , and viewed with astonishment the prisoner whom he brought into the village with him . 
Once more she was bound and sentries placed before the door of her prison but before Werper left her he whispered words of cheer into her ear . 
Then he left , and made his way back to the tent of Mohammed Beyd . 
As these thoughts passed through his mind he entered the tent where Mohammed Beyd sat cross legged upon a rug , smoking . 
The Arab looked up as the European came into his presence . 
Greetings , O Brother ! he said . 
For a while neither spoke further . 
The Arab was the first to break the silence . 
And my master , Achmet Zek , was well when last you saw him ? he asked . 
Never was he safer from the sins and dangers of mortality , replied the Belgian . 
It is well , said Mohammed Beyd , blowing a little puff of blue smoke straight out before him . 
Again there was silence for several minutes . 
And if he were dead ? asked the Belgian , determined to lead up to the truth , and attempt to bribe Mohammed Beyd into his service . 
The Arab's eyes narrowed and he leaned forward , his gaze boring straight into the eyes of the Belgian . 
I have been thinking much , Werper , since you returned so unexpectedly to the camp of the man whom you had deceived , and who sought you with death in his heart . 
I was not his mother , or his mistress , so do not fear that my wailings shall disturb you . 
Tell me why you have come back here . 
Eh ? The evil eyes narrowed , a vicious , thin lipped smile tortured the villainous face , as Mohammed Beyd grinned knowingly into the face of the Belgian . 
Werper was both relieved and disturbed by the Arab's attitude . 
To acknowledge that he had lost the jewels might be to arouse the wrath or suspicion of the Arab to such an extent as would jeopardize his new found chances of escape . 
Yes , he said , Achmet Zek is dead . 
He fell in battle with a company of Abyssinian cavalry that held me captive . 
During the fighting I escaped but I doubt if any of Achmet Zek's men live , and the gold they sought is in the possession of the Abyssinians . 
Even now they are doubtless marching on this camp , for they were sent by Menelek to punish Achmet Zek and his followers for a raid upon an Abyssinian village . 
There are many of them , and if we do not make haste to escape we shall all suffer the same fate as Achmet Zek . 
Mohammed Beyd listened in silence . 
And if I ride north with you , he asked , half the jewels and half the ransom of the woman shall be mine ? Yes , replied Werper . 
Good , said Mohammed Beyd . 
I go now to give the order for the breaking of camp early on the morrow , and he rose to leave the tent . 
Werper laid a detaining hand upon his arm . 
Wait , he said , let us determine how many shall accompany us . 
It is not well that we be burdened by the women and children , for then indeed we might be overtaken by the Abyssinians . 
It would be far better to select a small guard of your bravest men , and leave word behind that we are riding WEST . 
The serpent is less wise than thou , Werper , said Mohammed Beyd with a smile . 
It shall be done as you say . 
Twenty men shall accompany us , and we shall ride WEST when we leave the village . 
Good , cried the Belgian , and so it was arranged . 
The latter unbound her ankles and lifted her to her feet . 
Then her wrists were loosed , she was given a handful of dry bread , and led out into the faint light of dawn . 
Thus assured , the young woman felt a renewal of the hope which the long and miserable night of bondage had almost expunged . 
Half an hour later the party turned north , and northerly was their direction for the balance of the march . 
If Werper succeeded in keeping himself from conversation with the young woman , he failed signally to expel her from his thoughts . 
A hundred times a day he found his eyes wandering in her direction and feasting themselves upon her charms of face and figure . 
Each hour his infatuation for her grew , until his desire to possess her gained almost the proportions of madness . 
Upon the second day out Mohammed Beyd reined his horse to the side of the animal on which the captive was mounted . 
Nor was this hidden infatuation of any recent origin . 
Now , though , it was different only a despised dog of a Christian stood between himself and possession of the girl . 
Yes , he would kill Werper , retain all the jewels and keep the Englishwoman . 
He turned his eyes upon her as she rode along at his side . 
How beautiful she was ! His fingers opened and closed skinny , brown talons itching to feel the soft flesh of the victim in their remorseless clutch . 
Do you know , he asked leaning toward her , where this man would take you ? Jane Clayton nodded affirmatively . 
And you are willing to become the plaything of a black sultan ? The girl drew herself up to her full height , and turned her head away but she did not reply . 
She feared lest her knowledge of the ruse that M. Frecoult was playing upon the Arab might cause her to betray herself through an insufficient display of terror and aversion . 
Jane Clayton wrenched herself from his grasp . 
You beast ! she cried . 
Leave me or I shall call M. Frecoult . 
Mohammed Beyd drew back with a scowl . 
His thin , upper lip curled upward , revealing his smooth , white teeth . 
M. Frecoult ? he jeered . 
There is no such person . 
The man's name is Werper . 
He is a liar , a thief , and a murderer . 
He killed his captain in the Congo country and fled to the protection of Achmet Zek . 
He led Achmet Zek to the plunder of your home . 
He followed your husband , and planned to steal his gold from him . 
Mohammed Beyd is your only hope , and with this assertion to provide the captive with food for thought , the Arab spurred forward toward the head of the column . 
On the march a separate tent had been provided for the captive , and at night it was pitched between those of Mohammed Beyd and Werper . 
A sentry was posted at the front and another at the back , and with these precautions it had not been thought necessary to confine the prisoner to bonds . 
The evening following her interview with Mohammed Beyd , Jane Clayton sat for some time at the opening of her tent watching the rough activities of the camp . 
Her gaze passed through all these , unseeing , to center itself upon a distant bungalow and scenes of happy security which brought to her eyes tears of mingled joy and sorrow . 
All this was gone , vanished into the past , wiped out by the torches and bullets and hatred of these hideous and degenerate men . 
With a stifled sob , and a little shudder , Jane Clayton turned back into her tent and sought the pile of unclean blankets which were her bed . 
Throwing herself face downward upon them she sobbed forth her misery until kindly sleep brought her , at least temporary , relief . 
And while she slept a figure stole from the tent that stood to the right of hers . 
It approached the sentry before the doorway and whispered a few words in the man's ear . 
The latter nodded , and strode off through the darkness in the direction of his own blankets . 
The figure passed to the rear of Jane Clayton's tent and spoke again to the sentry there , and this man also left , following in the trail of the first . 
Then he who had sent them away stole silently to the tent flap and untying the fastenings entered with the noiselessness of a disembodied spirit . 
The Flight to the Jungle Sleepless upon his blankets , Albert Werper let his evil mind dwell upon the charms of the woman in the nearby tent . 
Her husband was dead , and Werper fancied that he could replace in the girl's heart the position which had been vacated by the act of the grim reaper . 
He could offer Jane Clayton marriage a thing which Mohammed Beyd would not offer , and which the girl would spurn from him with as deep disgust as she would his unholy lust . 
And then a sudden resolution possessed him . 
He threw the blankets from him and rose to his feet . 
Pulling on his boots and buckling his cartridge belt and revolver about his hips he stepped to the flap of his tent and looked out . 
There was no sentry before the entrance to the prisoner's tent ! What could it mean ? Fate was indeed playing into his hands . 
Stepping outside he passed to the rear of the girl's tent . 
There was no sentry there , either ! And now , boldly , he walked to the entrance and stepped within . 
Dimly the moonlight illumined the interior . 
Across the tent a figure bent above the blankets of a bed . 
There was a whispered word , and another figure rose from the blankets to a sitting position . 
Slowly Albert Werper's eyes were becoming accustomed to the half darkness of the tent . 
He saw that the figure leaning over the bed was that of a man , and he guessed at the truth of the nocturnal visitor's identity . 
A sullen , jealous rage enveloped him . 
He took a step in the direction of the two . 
Cheated passion cast a red blur before the eyes of the Belgian . 
No ! The man should not have her . 
She was for him and him alone . 
He would not be robbed of his rights . 
Quickly he ran across the tent and threw himself upon the back of Mohammed Beyd . 
The latter , though surprised by this sudden and unexpected attack , was not one to give up without a battle . 
The Belgian's fingers were feeling for his throat , but the Arab tore them away , and rising wheeled upon his adversary . 
As they faced each other Werper struck the Arab a heavy blow in the face , sending him staggering backward . 
Before he could disengage it , Mohammed Beyd had recovered himself and was dashing upon him . 
Again Werper struck the other in the face , and the Arab returned the blow . 
Again and again Werper struggled to draw his weapon . 
With it Mohammed Beyd will cut out your black heart . 
Werper was still dragging futilely at his weapon . 
The Arab was almost upon him . 
Mohammed Beyd , carried on by the momentum of his charge , stumbled over the projecting obstacle and crashed to the ground . 
Almost immediately following the report came the sound of excited voices in the camp without . 
Men were calling back and forth to one another asking the meaning of the shot . 
Werper could hear them running hither and thither , investigating . 
Jane Clayton had risen to her feet as the Arab died , and now she came forward with outstretched hands toward Werper . 
How can I ever thank you , my friend ? she asked . 
And to think that only today I had almost believed the infamous story which this beast told me of your perfidy and of your past . 
Forgive me , M. Frecoult . 
I might have known that a white man and a gentleman could be naught else than the protector of a woman of his own race amid the dangers of this savage land . 
Werper's hands dropped limply at his sides . 
He stood looking at the girl but he could find no words to reply to her . 
Her innocent arraignment of his true purposes was unanswerable . 
Outside , the Arabs were searching for the author of the disturbing shot . 
The two sentries who had been relieved and sent to their blankets by Mohammed Beyd were the first to suggest going to the tent of the prisoner . 
It occurred to them that possibly the woman had successfully defended herself against their leader . 
Werper heard the men approaching . 
To be apprehended as the slayer of Mohammed Beyd would be equivalent to a sentence of immediate death . 
The fierce and brutal raiders would tear to pieces a Christian who had dared spill the blood of their leader . 
He must find some excuse to delay the finding of Mohammed Beyd's dead body . 
Returning his revolver to its holster , he walked quickly to the entrance of the tent . 
Parting the flaps he stepped out and confronted the men , who were rapidly approaching . 
Somehow he found within him the necessary bravado to force a smile to his lips , as he held up his hand to bar their farther progress . 
The woman resisted , he said , and Mohammed Beyd was forced to shoot her . 
She is not dead only slightly wounded . 
You may go back to your blankets . 
Mohammed Beyd and I will look after the prisoner then he turned and re entered the tent , and the raiders , satisfied by this explanation , gladly returned to their broken slumbers . 
As he again faced Jane Clayton , Werper found himself animated by quite different intentions than those which had lured him from his blankets but a few minutes before . 
But another and stronger force was exerting itself in the girl's favor . 
As he stood apparently listening to the retreating footsteps Jane Clayton approached him . 
What are we to do now ? she asked . 
Morning will bring discovery of this , and she pointed to the still body of Mohammed Beyd . 
They will kill you when they find him . 
For a time Werper did not reply , then he turned suddenly toward the woman . 
I have a plan , he cried . 
It will require nerve and courage on your part but you have already shown that you possess both . 
Can you endure still more ? I can endure anything , she replied with a brave smile , that may offer us even a slight chance for escape . 
You must simulate death , he explained , while I carry you from the camp . 
I will explain to the sentries that Mohammed Beyd has ordered me to take your body into the jungle . 
The girl held up her hand to stop . 
A smile touched her lips . 
Are you quite mad ? she asked . 
Do you imagine that the sentries will credit any such ridiculous tale ? You do not know them , he replied . 
It is romance which lures men to lead wild lives of outlawry and crime . 
The ruse will succeed never fear . 
We can but try it and then what ? I shall hide you in the jungle , continued the Belgian , coming for you alone and with two horses in the morning . 
But how will you explain Mohammed Beyd's death ? she asked . 
It will be discovered before ever you can escape the camp in the morning . 
I shall not explain it , replied Werper . 
Mohammed Beyd shall explain it himself we must leave that to him . 
Are you ready for the venture ? Yes . 
But wait , I must get you a weapon and ammunition , and Werper walked quickly from the tent . 
Very shortly he returned with an extra revolver and ammunition belt strapped about his waist . 
Are you ready ? he asked . 
Quite ready , replied the girl . 
Then come and throw yourself limply across my left shoulder , and Werper knelt to receive her . 
There , he said , as he rose to his feet . 
Now , let your arms , your legs and your head hang limply . 
Remember that you are dead . 
A moment later the man walked out into the camp , the body of the woman across his shoulder . 
A thorn boma had been thrown up about the camp , to discourage the bolder of the hungry carnivora . 
A couple of sentries paced to and fro in the light of a fire which they kept burning brightly . 
The nearer of these looked up in surprise as he saw Werper approaching . 
Who are you ? he cried . 
What have you there ? Werper raised the hood of his burnoose that the fellow might see his face . 
This is the body of the woman , he explained . 
He suffers greatly he is inconsolable . 
It was with difficulty that I prevented him taking his own life . 
Across the speaker's shoulder , limp and frightened , the girl waited for the Arab's reply . 
He would laugh at this preposterous story of that she was sure . 
In an instant he would unmask the deception that M. Frecoult was attempting to practice upon him , and they would both be lost . 
She tried to plan how best she might aid her would be rescuer in the fight which must most certainly follow within a moment or two . 
Then she heard the voice of the Arab as he replied to M. Frecoult . 
I shall go alone , replied Werper , and he passed on and out through the narrow opening in the boma , by which the sentry stood . 
Tomorrow , he whispered , as soon as I can elude them , I will return for you . 
Be brave , Lady Greystoke we may yet escape . 
Thank you , she replied in a low tone . 
You have been very kind , and very brave . 
Werper did not reply , and the darkness of the night hid the scarlet flush of shame which swept upward across his face . 
Quickly he turned and made his way back to camp . 
Raising the lower edge of the rear wall , Werper crept within and approached the corpse . 
Without an instant's hesitation he seized the dead wrists and dragged the body upon its back to the point where he had just entered . 
On hands and knees he backed out as he had come in , drawing the corpse after him . 
Once outside the Belgian crept to the side of the tent and surveyed as much of the camp as lay within his vision no one was watching . 
Behind the silken wall he halted and lowered his burden to the ground , and there he remained motionless for several minutes , listening . 
To the sleeping rugs of the dead raider he drew the corpse , then he fumbled about in the darkness until he had found Mohammed Beyd's revolver . 
Then he pulled the trigger , and at the same time he coughed . 
The muffled report could not have been heard above the sound of his cough by one directly outside the tent . 
Going to the tent of the prisoner he removed there also the evidence that someone might have come or gone beneath the rear wall . 
Then he returned to his own tent , entered , fastened down the canvas , and crawled into his blankets . 
The following morning he was awakened by the excited voice of Mohammed Beyd's slave calling to him at the entrance of his tent . 
Quick ! Quick ! cried the black in a frightened tone . 
Come ! Mohammed Beyd is dead in his tent dead by his own hand . 
I come , he called to the slave , and drawing on his boots , rose and went out of his tent . 
Shouldering his way among them , the Belgian halted beside the dead body of the raider . 
He looked down in silence for a moment upon the still face , then he wheeled upon the Arabs . 
Who has done this thing ? he cried . 
His tone was both menacing and accusing . 
Who has murdered Mohammed Beyd ? A sudden chorus of voices arose in tumultuous protest . 
Mohammed Beyd was not murdered , they cried . 
He died by his own hand . 
This , and Allah , are our witnesses , and they pointed to a revolver in the dead man's hand . 
Then six husky blacks carried the body out into the clearing where the camp stood , and deposited it in a shallow grave . 
Dismounting , he quickly climbed into the tree , where he could obtain a view of all its branches . 
The tree was empty Jane Clayton had vanished during the silent watches of the jungle night . 
One was a fair she , and it was her face which most often moved through the tangled recollections of his convalescing brain . 
There was a building there were many buildings and there were hedges , fences , and flowers . 
Tarzan puckered his brow in puzzled study of the wonderful problem . 
Tarzan shook his head and sighed . 
If the woman belonged there , what better place to search or await her than the very spot which his broken recollections seemed to assign to her ? It was worth trying . 
Tarzan slipped the thong of the empty pouch over his shoulder and started off through the trees in the direction of the plain . 
At the outskirts of the forest he met the Arabs returning in search of Achmet Zek . 
Hiding , he let them pass , and then resumed his way toward the charred ruins of the home he had been almost upon the point of recalling to his memory . 
His hunger satisfied , thirst next claimed his attention . 
To the jungle bred , time is usually a matter of small moment , and haste , except when engendered by terror , by rage , or by hunger , is distasteful . 
Therefore tomorrow , of which there was an infinite procession , would answer admirably for Tarzan's further quest . 
And , besides , the ape man was tired and would sleep . 
Morning found him both hungry and thirsty again , and dropping from his tree he made his way to the drinking place at the river's edge . 
There he found Numa , the lion , ahead of him . 
For a moment the lion continued to eye the man then he resumed his drinking , and man and beast quenched their thirst side by side each apparently oblivious of the other's presence . 
Numa was the first to finish . 
Raising his head , he gazed across the river for a few minutes with that stony fixity of attention which is a characteristic of his kind . 
But for the ruffling of his black mane to the touch of the passing breeze he might have been wrought from golden bronze , so motionless , so statuesque his pose . 
A deep sigh from the cavernous lungs dispelled the illusion . 
The mighty head swung slowly around until the yellow eyes rested upon the man . 
The bristled lip curved upward , exposing yellow fangs . 
Another warning growl vibrated the heavy jowls , and the king of beasts turned majestically about and paced slowly up the trail into the dense reeds . 
And when he came upon the spot , great was his surprise and consternation , for the yellow metal had disappeared . 
The earth , trampled by the feet of horses and men , gave no clew . 
It was as though the ingots had evaporated into thin air . 
The ape man was at a loss to know where to turn or what next to do . 
There was no sign of any spoor which might denote that the she had been here . 
The metal was gone , and if there was any connection between the she and the metal it seemed useless to wait for her now that the latter had been removed elsewhere . 
Everything seemed to elude him the pretty pebbles , the yellow metal , the she , his memory . 
He would go back into the jungle and look for Chulk , and so he turned his steps once more toward the forest . 
For two days he roamed about , killing , eating , drinking and sleeping wherever inclination and the means to indulge it occurred simultaneously . 
It was upon the morning of the third day that the scent spoor of horse and man were wafted faintly to his nostrils . 
Instantly he altered his course to glide silently through the branches in the direction from which the scent came . 
It was not long before he came upon a solitary horseman riding toward the east . 
Instantly his eyes confirmed what his nose had previously suspected the rider was he who had stolen his pretty pebbles . 
The light of rage flared suddenly in the gray eyes as the ape man dropped lower among the branches until he moved almost directly above the unconscious Werper . 
There was a quick leap , and the Belgian felt a heavy body hurtle onto the rump of his terror stricken mount . 
The horse , snorting , leaped forward . 
Recognition came to Werper with the first glance at his captor's face , and a pallor of fear overspread his features . 
Strong fingers were at his throat , fingers of steel . 
He tried to cry out , to plead for his life but the cruel fingers denied him speech , as they were as surely denying him life . 
The pretty pebbles ? cried the man upon his breast . 
What did you with the pretty pebbles with Tarzan's pretty pebbles ? The fingers relaxed to permit a reply . 
For some time Werper could only choke and cough at last he regained the powers of speech . 
Achmet Zek , the Arab , stole them from me , he cried he made me give up the pouch and the pebbles . 
Even the Arab would not have them , for he threw them away in anger when he had looked upon them . 
It is my pretty pebbles that I want where are they ? I do not know , I do not know , cried Werper . 
I gave them to Achmet Zek or he would have killed me . 
I found it , I tell you , growled Tarzan , and I also found the pebbles which Achmet Zek had thrown away in disgust . 
They were not Tarzan's pebbles . 
Werper struggled to free himself . 
Lord Greystoke ! repeated the ape man . 
Lord Greystoke ! Who is Lord Greystoke ? Where have I heard that name before ? Why man , you are Lord Greystoke , cried the Belgian . 
The blow shattered your memory . 
You are John Clayton , Lord Greystoke don't you remember ? John Clayton , Lord Greystoke ! repeated Tarzan . 
Then for a moment he was silent . 
Presently his hand went falteringly to his forehead , an expression of wonderment filled his eyes of wonderment and sudden understanding . 
The forgotten name had reawakened the returning memory that had been struggling to reassert itself . 
The ape man relinquished his grasp upon the throat of the Belgian , and leaped to his feet . 
God ! he cried , and then , Jane ! Suddenly he turned toward Werper . 
My wife ? he asked . 
What has become of her ? The farm is in ruins . 
You have had something to do with all this . 
You followed me to Opar , you stole the jewels which I thought but pretty pebbles . 
You are a crook ! Do not try to tell me that you are not . 
He is worse than a crook , said a quiet voice close behind them . 
Tarzan turned in astonishment to see a tall man in uniform standing in the trail a few paces from him . 
Back of the man were a number of black soldiers in the uniform of the Congo Free State . 
He is a murderer , Monsieur , continued the officer . 
I have followed him for a long time to take him back to stand trial for the killing of his superior officer . 
Werper was upon his feet now , gazing , white and trembling , at the fate which had overtaken him even in the fastness of the labyrinthine jungle . 
Instinctively he turned to flee but Tarzan of the Apes reached out a strong hand and grasped him by the shoulder . 
Wait ! said the ape man to his captive . 
This gentleman wishes you , and so do I. When I am through with you , he may have you . 
Tell me what has become of my wife . 
The Belgian officer eyed the almost naked , white giant with curiosity . 
He noted the strange contrast of primitive weapons and apparel , and the easy , fluent French which the man spoke . 
The former denoted the lowest , the latter the highest type of culture . 
Pardon me , he said , stepping forward and placing his hand on Werper's other shoulder but this gentleman is my prisoner . 
He must come with me . 
When I am through with him , replied Tarzan , quietly . 
The officer turned and beckoned to the soldiers standing in the trail behind him . 
A company of uniformed blacks stepped quickly forward and pushing past the three , surrounded the ape man and his captive . 
Both the law and the power to enforce it are upon my side , announced the officer . 
Let us have no trouble . 
If you have a grievance against this man you may return with me and enter your charge regularly before an authorized tribunal . 
Your legal rights are not above suspicion , my friend , replied Tarzan , and your power to enforce your commands are only apparent not real . 
You have presumed to enter British territory with an armed force . 
I have no disposition to argue with a naked savage , he cried . 
Unless you wish to be hurt you will not interfere with me . 
Take the prisoner , Sergeant ! Werper raised his lips close to Tarzan's ear . 
Keep me from them , and I can show you the very spot where I saw your wife last night , he whispered . 
She cannot be far from here at this very minute . 
The soldiers , following the signal from their sergeant , closed in to seize Werper . 
His right fist caught the nearest soldier upon the jaw and sent him hurtling backward upon his fellows . 
In an instant the ape man was down and a dozen black soldiers were upon his back . 
When he regained consciousness he found himself securely bound , as was Werper also . 
Werper , however , was voluble in his protests . 
He explained that Tarzan was an English lord but the officer only laughed at the assertion , and advised his prisoner to save his breath for his defense in court . 
Toward evening the column halted beside a stream , made camp and prepared the evening meal . 
From the thick foliage of the nearby jungle a pair of fierce eyes watched the activities of the uniformed blacks with silent intensity and curiosity . 
From beneath beetling brows the creature saw the boma constructed , the fires built , and the supper prepared . 
As the giant ape man rose , a startled expression of recognition entered the eyes of the watcher in the jungle , and a low guttural broke from the savage lips . 
Instantly Tarzan was alert , but the answering growl died upon his lips , suppressed by the fear that it might arouse the suspicions of the soldiers . 
Suddenly an inspiration came to him . 
I am going to speak to you in a loud voice and in a tongue which you do not understand . 
Appear to listen intently to what I say , and occasionally mumble something as though replying in the same language our escape may hinge upon the success of your efforts . 
The nearer soldiers looked in surprise at the ape man . 
Some of them laughed , while others drew away in evident superstitious fear . 
The officer approached the prisoners while Tarzan was still jabbering , and halted behind them , listening in perplexed interest . 
When Werper mumbled some ridiculous jargon in reply his curiosity broke bounds , and he stepped forward , demanding to know what language it was that they spoke . 
Oh , I thought it was Greek , replied the officer but it has been so many years since I studied it that I was not sure . 
In future , however , I will thank you to speak in a language which I am more familiar with . 
Werper turned his head to hide a grin , whispering to Tarzan It was Greek to him all right and to me , too . 
I wish that we had not found him . 
And deep in the gloomy jungle amidst the darkening shadows of the falling night a hairy , manlike creature swung swiftly southward upon some secret mission of his own . 
That which she saw relieved the strain of the long night vigil but there was much that she did not see . 
She did not see the black face beneath the white hood , nor the file of ebon horsemen beyond the trail's bend riding slowly in the wake of their leader . 
These things she did not see at first , and so she leaned downward toward the approaching rider , a cry of welcome forming in her throat . 
The man had seen her , and now he called to her to descend . 
The girl did not need ask him why , and once again hope died within her breast . 
It was a dispirited company which went into camp , waterless and hungry , in the dense jungle . 
Attracted by the horses , lions roared about the boma , and to their hideous din was added the shrill neighs of the terror stricken beasts they hunted . 
It was well past midnight , and as yet Jane Clayton , notwithstanding that she had passed a sleepless night the night before , had scarcely more than dozed . 
A sense of impending danger seemed to hang like a black pall over the camp . 
The veteran troopers of the black emperor were nervous and ill at ease . 
Abdul Mourak left his blankets a dozen times to pace restlessly back and forth between the tethered horses and the crackling fire . 
The girl could see his great frame silhouetted against the lurid glare of the flames , and she guessed from the quick , nervous movements of the man that he was afraid . 
The roaring of the lions rose in sudden fury until the earth trembled to the hideous chorus . 
The horses shrilled their neighs of terror as they lay back upon their halter ropes in their mad endeavors to break loose . 
A trooper , braver than his fellows , leaped among the kicking , plunging , fear maddened beasts in a futile attempt to quiet them . 
A lion , large , and fierce , and courageous , leaped almost to the boma , full in the bright light from the fire . 
A sentry raised his piece and fired , and the little leaden pellet unstoppered the vials of hell upon the terror stricken camp . 
What had been pandemonium before became now an indescribable tumult of hideous sound . 
The stricken horse upon which the lion leaped shrieked out its terror and its agony . 
Several about it broke their tethers and plunged madly about the camp . 
Amidst the cracking of the rifles and the growls of the carnivora rose the death screams of stricken men and horses as they were dragged down by the blood mad cats . 
A horse , struck by a stray bullet , fell beside Jane Clayton , a lion leaped across the expiring beast full upon the breast of a black trooper just beyond . 
The man clubbed his rifle and struck futilely at the broad head , and then he was down and the carnivore was standing above him . 
Shrieking out his terror , the soldier clawed with puny fingers at the shaggy breast in vain endeavor to push away the grinning jaws . 
Wide eyed the girl stood watching . 
The interference of the body seemed to enrage the lion . 
He shook the inanimate clay venomously . 
His yellow eyes fastened themselves balefully upon the figure of the girl , the bristling lips raised , disclosing the grinning fangs . 
A terrific roar broke from the savage throat , and the great beast crouched to spring upon this new and helpless victim . 
Quiet had fallen early upon the camp where Tarzan and Werper lay securely bound . 
Two nervous sentries paced their beats , their eyes rolling often toward the impenetrable shadows of the gloomy jungle . 
The others slept or tried to sleep all but the ape man . 
Silently and powerfully he strained at the bonds which fettered his wrists . 
Again came the uncanny sound from the thick verdure beyond the camp . 
A sentry halted abruptly , straining his eyes into the gloom . 
The kinky wool upon his head stiffened and raised . 
He called to his comrade in a hoarse whisper . 
Did you hear it ? he asked . 
The other came closer , trembling . 
Hear what ? Again was the weird sound repeated , followed almost immediately by a similar and answering sound from the camp . 
The sentries drew close together , watching the black spot from which the voice seemed to come . 
Trees overhung the boma at this point which was upon the opposite side of the camp from them . 
Their terror even prevented them from arousing their fellows they could only stand in frozen fear and watch for the fearsome apparition they momentarily expected to see leap from the jungle . 
Nor had they long to wait . 
A dim , bulky form dropped lightly from the branches of a tree into the camp . 
At sight of it one of the sentries recovered command of his muscles and his voice . 
Screaming loudly to awaken the sleeping camp , he leaped toward the flickering watch fire and threw a mass of brush upon it . 
The white officer and the black soldiers sprang from their blankets . 
The flames leaped high upon the rejuvenated fire , lighting the entire camp , and the awakened men shrank back in superstitious terror from the sight that met their frightened and astonished vision . 
A dozen huge and hairy forms loomed large beneath the trees at the far side of the enclosure . 
The white giant , one hand freed , had struggled to his knees and was calling to the frightful , nocturnal visitors in a hideous medley of bestial gutturals , barkings and growlings . 
Werper had managed to sit up . 
He , too , saw the savage faces of the approaching anthropoids and scarcely knew whether to be relieved or terror stricken . 
Growling , the great apes leaped forward toward Tarzan and Werper . 
Drawing his own weapon , the officer fired , and Tarzan fearing the effect of the noise upon his really timid friends called to them to hasten and fulfill his commands . 
By dint of threats , reproaches and profanity the Belgian officer succeeded in persuading his trembling command to fire a volley after the retreating apes . 
In an instant he was up again but the Belgian guessed from his unsteady gait that he was hard hit . 
As Chulk went down he dropped Werper , so that the latter fell face downward with the body of the ape lying half across him . 
In this position the Belgian felt something resting against his hands , which were still bound at his back something that was not a part of the hairy body of the ape . 
Mechanically the man's fingers felt of the object resting almost in their grasp it was a soft pouch , filled with small , hard particles . 
Werper gasped in wonderment as recognition filtered through the incredulity of his mind . 
Tarzan , sitting at a short distance , was busy with the remaining knots of the cords which bound him . 
Presently he flung aside the last of them and rose to his feet . 
Approaching Werper he knelt beside him . 
For a moment he examined the ape . 
Quite dead , he announced . 
It is too bad he was a splendid creature , and then he turned to the work of liberating the Belgian . 
He freed his hands first , and then commenced upon the knots at his ankles . 
I can do the rest , said the Belgian . 
Then he rose and approached Tarzan . 
Once again had avarice claimed him . 
Forgotten were the good intentions which the confidence of Jane Clayton in his honor had awakened . 
What she had done , the little pouch had undone . 
Now , said the ape man , keep your promise to me . 
Lead me to the spot where you last saw my wife . 
It was slow work pushing through the jungle in the dead of night behind the slow moving Belgian . 
There they sat peering from beneath their shaggy brows at the figures of the two men forging steadily ahead , until the latter disappeared in the leafy trail beyond the clearing . 
The two had gone but a short distance beyond the glade where the apes had deserted them , when the roaring of distant lions fell upon their ears . 
Someone is having trouble over there , he said , turning toward Werper . 
I'll have to go to them they may be friends . 
At the suggestion Tarzan started as though struck with a whip . 
God ! he cried , she might be , and the lions are attacking them they are in the camp . 
I can tell from the screams of the horses and there ! that was the cry of a man in his death agonies . 
Stay here man I will come back for you . 
I must go first to them , and swinging into a tree the lithe figure swung rapidly off into the night with the speed and silence of a disembodied spirit . 
For a moment Werper stood where the ape man had left him . 
Then a cunning smile crossed his lips . 
Stay here ? he asked himself . 
His quick eye took in the whole scene with a single comprehending glance and stopped upon the figure of a woman standing facing a great lion across the carcass of a horse . 
The carnivore was crouching to spring as Tarzan discovered the tragic tableau . 
Numa was almost beneath the branch upon which the ape man stood , naked and unarmed . 
What use to attempt escape ? As well face the hideous end as to be dragged down from behind in futile flight . 
Wide went her eyes in wonder and incredulity , as she beheld this seeming apparition risen from the dead . 
The lion was forgotten her own peril everything save the wondrous miracle of this strange recrudescence . 
With parted lips , with palms tight pressed against her heaving bosom , the girl leaned forward , large eyed , enthralled by the vision of her dead mate . 
She saw the sinewy form leap to the shoulder of the lion , hurtling against the leaping beast like a huge , animate battering ram . 
At the ape man's feet lay the discarded rifle of the dead Abyssinian whose mutilated corpse sprawled where Numa had abandoned it . 
For a brief instant he strained her dear form to his breast , and then a glance about him awakened the ape man to the dangers which still surrounded them . 
Upon every hand the lions were still leaping upon new victims . 
Fear maddened horses still menaced them with their erratic bolting from one side of the enclosure to the other . 
Bullets from the guns of the defenders who remained alive but added to the perils of their situation . 
To remain was to court death . 
Tarzan seized Jane Clayton and lifted her to a broad shoulder . 
And so , unmolested , Tarzan passed from the camp of the Abyssinians , from which the din of conflict followed him deep into the jungle until distance gradually obliterated it entirely . 
But when he came to the place , Werper was gone , and though Tarzan called aloud many times he received no reply . 
He has acknowledged his guilt by his flight , Jane , he said . 
We will let him go to lie in the bed that he has made for himself . 
The Waziri , commented Tarzan with a grim smile . 
God bless them ! cried Jane Clayton . 
They cannot be far ahead of us , said Tarzan , Basuli and the others . 
The gold is gone and the jewels of Opar , Jane but we have each other and the Waziri and we have love and loyalty and friendship . 
We are nearing the Waziri , Jane , he said . 
I can hear them ahead of us . 
They are going into camp for the night , I imagine . 
A half hour later the two came upon a horde of ebon warriors which Basuli had collected for his war of vengeance upon the raiders . 
It was Mugambi , whom Jane had thought dead amidst the charred ruins of the bungalow . 
Ah , such a reunion ! Long into the night the dancing and the singing and the laughter awoke the echoes of the somber wood . 
Again and again were the stories of their various adventures retold . 
Pieced out from the fragments of their various experiences with the Belgian the truth concerning the malign activities of Albert Werper became apparent . 
Deep in the soul of every man , said Tarzan , must lurk the germ of righteousness . 
It was your own virtue , Jane , rather even than your helplessness which awakened for an instant the latent decency of this degraded man . 
In that one act he retrieved himself , and when he is called to face his Maker may it outweigh in the balance , all the sins he has committed . 
And Jane Clayton breathed a fervent , Amen ! Months had passed . 
The labor of the Waziri and the gold of Opar had rebuilt and refurnished the wasted homestead of the Greystokes . 
Once more the simple life of the great African farm went on as it had before the coming of the Belgian and the Arab . 
Forgotten were the sorrows and dangers of yesterday . 
In itself the hunt was a success , and ten days after its inauguration , a well laden safari took up its return march toward the Waziri plain . 
Jane Clayton's horse shied suddenly at an object half hidden in the long grasses of an open space in the jungle . 
Tarzan's keen eyes sought quickly for an explanation of the animal's action . 
What have we here ? he cried , swinging from his saddle , and a moment later the four were grouped about a human skull and a little litter of whitened human bones . 
Tarzan stooped and lifted a leathern pouch from the grisly relics of a man . 
The hard outlines of the contents brought an exclamation of surprise to his lips . 
The jewels of Opar ! he cried , holding the pouch aloft , and , pointing to the bones at his feet , all that remains of Werper , the Belgian . 
Why do you laugh ? asked Tarzan . 
Because , replied Mugambi , I filled the Belgian's pouch with river gravel before I escaped the camp of the Abyssinians whose prisoners we were . 
I left the Belgian only worthless stones , while I brought away with me the jewels he had stolen from you . 
That they were afterward stolen from me while I slept in the jungle is my shame and my disgrace but at least the Belgian lost them open his pouch and you will see . 
Tarzan untied the thong which held the mouth of the leathern bag closed , and permitted the contents to trickle slowly forth into his open palm . 
Mugambi's eyes went wide at the sight , and the others uttered exclamations of surprise and incredulity , for from the rusty and weatherworn pouch ran a stream of brilliant , scintillating gems . 
The jewels of Opar ! cried Tarzan . 
But how did Werper come by them again ? None could answer , for both Chulk and Werper were dead , and no other knew . 
Poor devil ! said the ape man , as he swung back into his saddle . 
Even in death he has made restitution let his sins lie with his bones . 
