Or at least so thought Tarzan of the Apes , who squatted upon a low swinging branch in a near by tree and looked down upon her . 
Lost to Tarzan of the Apes was the truth of his origin . 
That he was John Clayton , Lord Greystoke , with a seat in the House of Lords , he did not know , nor , knowing , would have understood . 
For years had Tarzan and Teeka been play fellows , and Teeka still continued to be playful while the young bulls of her own age were rapidly becoming surly and morose . 
Tarzan scratched his head , running his fingers deep into the shock of black hair which framed his shapely , boyish face he scratched his head and sighed . 
Teeka's new found beauty became as suddenly his despair . 
He envied her the handsome coat of hair which covered her body . 
His own smooth , brown hide he hated with a hatred born of disgust and contempt . 
Then there were Teeka's great teeth , not so large as the males , of course , but still mighty , handsome things by comparison with Tarzan's feeble white ones . 
The other apes of the tribe of Kerchak moved listlessly about or lolled restfully in the midday heat of the equatorial jungle . 
From time to time one or another of them had passed close to Teeka , and Tarzan had been uninterested . 
Since childhood they had romped together . 
Together they had baited Tublat and teased Numa , the lion . 
The Taug of today was a huge , sullen bull ape , somber and forbidding . 
Yet he and Tarzan never had quarreled . 
For a few minutes the young ape man watched Taug press closer to Teeka . 
As he came his upper lip curled into a snarl , exposing his fighting fangs , and a deep growl rumbled from his cavernous chest . 
Taug looked up , batting his blood shot eyes . 
Teeka half raised herself and looked at Tarzan . 
Stooped , his muscles rigid and one great shoulder turned toward the young bull , Tarzan of the Apes sidled nearer and nearer . 
His face was partly averted , but his keen gray eyes never left those of Taug , and as he came , his growls increased in depth and volume . 
Taug rose upon his short legs , bristling . 
His fighting fangs were bared . 
He , too , sidled , stiff legged , and growled . 
Teeka is Tarzan's , said the ape man , in the low gutturals of the great anthropoids . 
Teeka is Taug's , replied the bull ape . 
Thaka and Numgo and Gunto , disturbed by the growlings of the two young bulls , looked up half apathetic , half interested . 
They were sleepy , but they sensed a fight . 
It would break the monotony of the humdrum jungle life they led . 
Coiled about his shoulders was Tarzan's long grass rope , in his hand was the hunting knife of the long dead father he had never known . 
In Taug's little brain lay a great respect for the shiny bit of sharp metal which the ape boy knew so well how to use . 
With it had he slain Tublat , his fierce foster father , and Bolgani , the gorilla . 
Taug knew these things , and so he came warily , circling about Tarzan in search of an opening . 
The latter , made cautious because of his lesser bulk and the inferiority of his natural armament , followed similar tactics . 
Such a thing never before had occurred in Teeka's brief life . 
So now she squatted upon her haunches and insulted both her admirers impartially . 
She hurled taunts at them for their cowardice , and called them vile names , such as Histah , the snake , and Dango , the hyena . 
The apes who were watching heard and laughed . 
His hunting knife was raised above his head as he came in , and he aimed a vicious blow at Taug's neck . 
The ape wheeled to dodge the weapon so that the keen blade struck him but a glancing blow upon the shoulder . 
The spurt of red blood brought a shrill cry of delight from Teeka . 
Ah , but this was something worth while ! She glanced about to see if others had witnessed this evidence of her popularity . 
Helen of Troy was never one whit more proud than was Teeka at that moment . 
And had she looked up she might have seen a sleek body crouching almost directly over her and wicked yellow eyes glaring hungrily down upon her , but Teeka did not look up . 
With his wound Taug had backed off growling horribly . 
Tarzan had followed him , screaming insults at him , and menacing him with his brandishing blade . 
Teeka moved from beneath the tree in an effort to keep close to the duelists . 
The branch above Teeka bent and swayed a trifle with the movement of the body of the watcher stretched along it . 
Taug had halted now and was preparing to make a new stand . 
His lips were flecked with foam , and saliva drooled from his jowls . 
He stood with head lowered and arms outstretched , preparing for a sudden charge to close quarters . 
Could he but lay his mighty hands upon that soft , brown skin the battle would be his . 
Taug considered Tarzan's manner of fighting unfair . 
Instead , he leaped nimbly just beyond the reach of Taug's muscular fingers . 
Not that he was afraid , for Tarzan knew nothing of fear . 
The instinct of self preservation gave him caution that was all . 
He took risks only when it seemed necessary , and then he would hesitate at nothing . 
His own method of fighting seemed best fitted to his build and to his armament . 
His teeth , while strong and sharp , were , as weapons of offense , pitifully inadequate by comparison with the mighty fighting fangs of the anthropoids . 
There were lulls in the fighting when the two would stand panting for breath , facing each other , mustering their wits and their forces for a new onslaught . 
It was during a pause such as this that Taug chanced to let his eyes rove beyond his foeman . 
Instantly the entire aspect of the ape altered . 
Rage left his countenance to be supplanted by an expression of fear . 
With a cry that every ape there recognized , Taug turned and fled . 
No need to question him his warning proclaimed the near presence of their ancient enemy . 
Taug heard , too but he did not pause in his flight . 
With the ape boy , however , it was different . 
Sheeta appeared to be in no hurry . 
His meat was assured , since even though the ape reached the trees ahead of him she could not climb beyond his clutches before he could be upon her . 
Tarzan saw that Teeka must die . 
He cried to Taug and the other bulls to hasten to Teeka's assistance , and at the same time he ran toward the pursuing beast , taking down his rope as he came . 
Taug heard , as did the others , but no one came to Tarzan's assistance or Teeka's rescue , and Sheeta was rapidly closing up the distance between himself and his prey . 
He called the panther every opprobrious name that fell to his tongue . 
He dared him to stop and do battle with him but Sheeta only loped on after the luscious titbit now almost within his reach . 
Tarzan was not far behind and he was gaining , but the distance was so short that he scarce hoped to overhaul the carnivore before it had felled Teeka . 
In his right hand the boy swung his grass rope above his head as he ran . 
He hated to chance a miss , for the distance was much greater than he ever had cast before except in practice . 
It was the full length of his grass rope which separated him from Sheeta , and yet there was no other thing to do . 
He could not reach the brute's side before it overhauled Teeka . 
He must chance a throw . 
Instantly Sheeta was up with glaring eyes , and lashing tail , and gaping jaws , from which issued hideous cries of rage and disappointment . 
He saw the ape boy , the cause of his discomfiture , scarce forty feet before him , and Sheeta charged . 
Teeka was safe now Tarzan saw to that by a quick glance into the tree whose safety she had gained not an instant too soon , and Sheeta was charging . 
The trees were too far to hope to reach in time to elude the cat . 
Tarzan could but stand facing that hideous charge . 
From safety points in the trees the great apes watched , screaming hatred at Sheeta and advice at Tarzan , for the progenitors of man have , naturally , many human traits . 
She screamed at the bulls to hasten to Tarzan's assistance but the bulls were otherwise engaged principally in giving advice and making faces . 
Quick as was the great cat , the ape boy was quicker . 
The panther recovered himself almost immediately and , wheeling , tore after his prey , the ape boy's rope dragging along the ground behind him . 
In doubling back after Tarzan , Sheeta had passed around a low bush . 
It was a mere nothing in the path of any jungle creature of the size and weight of Sheeta provided it had no trailing rope dangling behind . 
An instant later Tarzan was safe among the higher branches of a small tree into which Sheeta could not follow him . 
Here he perched , hurling twigs and epithets at the raging feline beneath him . 
A half hour later the tribe was again upon the ground , feeding as though naught had occurred to interrupt the somber dullness of their lives . 
Tarzan had recovered the greater part of his rope and was busy fashioning a new noose , while Teeka squatted close behind him , in evident token that her choice was made . 
Once when he came close , Teeka bared her fangs and growled at him , and Tarzan showed his canines in an ugly snarl but Taug did not provoke a quarrel . 
He seemed to accept after the manner of his kind the decision of the she as an indication that he had been vanquished in his battle for her favors . 
Later in the day , his rope repaired , Tarzan took to the trees in search of game . 
Taug saw him depart , and then , quite casually , the big beast hunted closer and closer to Teeka in his search for food . 
Taug expanded his great chest and rolled about on his short legs , making strange growlings in his throat . 
He raised his lips , baring his fangs . 
My , but what great , beautiful fangs he had ! Teeka could not but notice them . 
She also let her eyes rest in admiration upon Taug's beetling brows and his short , powerful neck . 
What a beautiful creature he was indeed ! Taug , flattered by the unconcealed admiration in her eyes , strutted about , as proud and as vain as a peacock . 
Presently he began to inventory his assets , mentally , and shortly he found himself comparing them with those of his rival . 
Taug grunted , for there was no comparison . 
Taug knew that his own blood shot eyes were beautiful , for he had seen them reflected in the glassy surface of many a drinking pool . 
The bull drew nearer to Teeka , finally squatting close against her . 
When Tarzan returned from his hunting a short time later it was to see Teeka contentedly scratching the back of his rival . 
Neither Taug nor Teeka saw him as he swung through the trees into the glade . 
Tarzan wished to be as far away from the cause of his heartache as he could . 
He was suffering the first pangs of blighted love , and he didn't quite know what was the matter with him . 
The ape boy craved affection . 
It was not until he was bereft of her that the boy realized how deep had been his attachment for his mother , for as such he looked upon her . 
In Teeka he had seen within the past few hours a substitute for Kala someone to fight for and to hunt for someone to caress but now his dream was shattered . 
Something hurt within his breast . 
He placed his hand over his heart and wondered what had happened to him . 
Vaguely he attributed his pain to Teeka . 
The more he thought of Teeka as he had last seen her , caressing Taug , the more the thing within his breast hurt him . 
Two days later he was still hunting alone very morose and very unhappy but he was determined never to return to the tribe . 
He could not bear the thought of seeing Taug and Teeka always together . 
It was a half caress . 
Tarzan sighed and hurled a nut at them . 
Later he came upon several of Mbonga's black warriors . 
They were building a cage in the trail and covering it with leafy branches . 
When they had completed their work the structure was scarcely visible . 
Taug , hunting alone , had wandered some distance from the balance of the tribe . 
He was making his way slowly along an elephant path when he discovered that it was blocked with undergrowth . 
Now Taug , come into maturity , was an evil natured brute of an exceeding short temper . 
Biting and striking at the barrier , Taug finally worked himself into a frightful rage , but all to no avail and at last he became convinced that he must turn back . 
Until exhaustion overcame him he fought frantically for his freedom but all for naught . 
Tarzan laughed as he saw it but the laugh was followed by a sudden clouding of his face and a deep sigh . 
A little farther on , a gaily feathered bird strutted about before the admiring eyes of his somber hued mate . 
When the blacks reached the trap , Taug set up a great commotion . 
Seizing the bars of his prison , he shook them frantically , and all the while he roared and growled terrifically . 
The blacks were elated , for while they had not built their trap for this hairy tree man , they were delighted with their catch . 
Yes , it was Taug , and he was alone . 
Tarzan grinned as he approached to discover what the blacks would do to their prisoner . 
Doubtless they would slay him at once . 
Now he could have Teeka for his own , with none to dispute his right to her . 
Tarzan watched until his rival passed out of sight , still beating upon the bars of his prison and growling out his anger and his threats . 
Then the ape boy turned and swung rapidly off in search of the tribe , and Teeka . 
Once , upon the journey , he surprised Sheeta and his family in a little overgrown clearing . 
The great cat lay stretched upon the ground , while his mate , one paw across her lord's savage face , licked at the soft white fur at his throat . 
Tarzan increased his speed then until he fairly flew through the forest , nor was it long before he came upon the tribe . 
He saw them before they saw him , for of all the jungle creatures , none passed more quietly than Tarzan of the Apes . 
He saw Kamma and her mate feeding side by side , their hairy bodies rubbing against each other . 
And he saw Teeka feeding by herself . 
Not for long would she feed thus in loneliness , thought Tarzan , as with a bound he landed amongst them . 
Pushing through them , he made his way toward Teeka but as he approached her the ape drew away . 
Teeka , he said , it is Tarzan . 
I have come for you . 
The ape drew closer , looking him over carefully . 
Finally she sniffed at him , as though to make assurance doubly sure . 
Where is Taug ? she asked . 
The Gomangani have him , replied Tarzan . 
As he did so he noticed , with a start , the strange incongruity of that smooth , brown arm against the black and hairy coat of his lady love . 
He recalled the paw of Sheeta's mate across Sheeta's face no incongruity there . 
He thought of little Manu hugging his she , and how the one seemed to belong to the other . 
The males and the females differed , it was true but not with such differences as existed between Tarzan and Teeka . 
His arm dropped from the shoulder of Teeka . 
Very slowly he drew away from her . 
She looked at him with her head cocked upon one side . 
Tarzan rose to his full height and beat upon his breast with his fists . 
He raised his head toward the heavens and opened his mouth . 
From the depths of his lungs rose the fierce , weird challenge of the victorious bull ape . 
The tribe turned curiously to eye him . 
He had killed nothing , nor was there any antagonist to be goaded to madness by the savage scream . 
No , there was no excuse for it , and they turned back to their feeding , but with an eye upon the ape man lest he be preparing to suddenly run amuck . 
As they watched him they saw him swing into a near by tree and disappear from sight . 
Then they forgot him , even Teeka . 
Mbonga's black warriors , sweating beneath their strenuous task , and resting often , made slow progress toward their village . 
Always the savage beast in the primitive cage growled and roared when they moved him . 
He beat upon the bars and slavered at the mouth . 
They had almost completed their journey and were making their final rest before forging ahead to gain the clearing in which lay their village . 
A few more minutes would have taken them out of the forest , and then , doubtless , the thing would not have happened which did happen . 
A silent figure moved through the trees above them . 
Keen eyes inspected the cage and counted the number of warriors . 
An alert and daring brain figured upon the chances of success when a certain plan should be put to the test . 
Tarzan watched the blacks lolling in the shade . 
Already several of them slept . 
He crept closer , pausing just above them . 
Not a leaf rustled before his stealthy advance . 
He waited in the infinite patience of the beast of prey . 
Presently but two of the warriors remained awake , and one of these was dozing . 
Tarzan of the Apes gathered himself , and as he did so the black who did not sleep arose and passed around to the rear of the cage . 
The ape boy followed just above his head . 
Taug was eyeing the warrior and emitting low growls . 
Tarzan feared that the anthropoid would awaken the sleepers . 
In a whisper which was inaudible to the ears of the Negro , Tarzan whispered Taug's name , cautioning the ape to silence , and Taug's growling ceased . 
Steel fingers circled his throat , choking the cry which sprang to the lips of the terrified man . 
Strong teeth fastened themselves in his shoulder , and powerful legs wound themselves about his torso . 
The black in a frenzy of terror tried to dislodge the silent thing which clung to him . 
He threw himself to the ground and rolled about but still those mighty fingers closed more and more tightly their deadly grip . 
The man's mouth gaped wide , his swollen tongue protruded , his eyes started from their sockets but the relentless fingers only increased their pressure . 
Taug was a silent witness of the struggle . 
In his fierce little brain he doubtless wondered what purpose prompted Tarzan to attack the black . 
Taug had not forgotten his recent battle with the ape boy , nor the cause of it . 
Now he saw the form of the Gomangani suddenly go limp . 
There was a convulsive shiver and the man lay still . 
Tarzan sprang from his prey and ran to the door of the cage . 
With nimble fingers he worked rapidly at the thongs which held the door in place . 
Taug could only watch he could not help . 
Presently Tarzan pushed the thing up a couple of feet and Taug crawled out . 
The ape would have turned upon the sleeping blacks that he might wreak his pent vengeance but Tarzan would not permit it . 
Instead , the ape boy dragged the body of the black within the cage and propped it against the side bars . 
Then he lowered the door and made fast the thongs as they had been before . 
A happy smile lighted his features as he worked , for one of his principal diversions was the baiting of the blacks of Mbonga's village . 
Go back to Teeka , said Tarzan . 
Tarzan does not want her . 
Tarzan has found another she ? asked Taug . 
Only for Tarzan of the Apes is there none . 
The Capture of Tarzan THE BLACK WARRIORS labored in the humid heat of the jungle's stifling shade . 
With war spears they loosened the thick , black loam and the deep layers of rotting vegetation . 
With heavy nailed fingers they scooped away the disintegrated earth from the center of the age old game trail . 
Often they ceased their labors to squat , resting and gossiping , with much laughter , at the edge of the pit they were digging . 
Against the boles of near by trees leaned their long , oval shields of thick buffalo hide , and the spears of those who were doing the scooping . 
Sweat glistened upon their smooth , ebon skins , beneath which rolled rounded muscles , supple in the perfection of nature's uncontaminated health . 
A reed buck , stepping warily along the trail toward water , halted as a burst of laughter broke upon his startled ears . 
For a moment he stood statuesque but for his sensitively dilating nostrils then he wheeled and fled noiselessly from the terrifying presence of man . 
A hundred yards away , deep in the tangle of impenetrable jungle , Numa , the lion , raised his massive head . 
Numa had dined well until almost daybreak and it had required much noise to awaken him . 
Now he lifted his muzzle and sniffed the air , caught the acrid scent spoor of the reed buck and the heavy scent of man . 
But Numa was well filled . 
With a low , disgusted grunt he rose and slunk away . 
Brilliantly plumaged birds with raucous voices darted from tree to tree . 
Little monkeys , chattering and scolding , swung through the swaying limbs above the black warriors . 
But were they alone ? Above them , lightly balanced upon a leafy tree limb , a gray eyed youth watched with eager intentness their every move . 
The fire of hate , restrained , smoldered beneath the lad's evident desire to know the purpose of the black men's labors . 
Such a one as these it was who had slain his beloved Kala . 
For them there could be naught but enmity , yet he liked well to watch them , avid as he was for greater knowledge of the ways of man . 
Tarzan could not guess the purpose of so great a labor . 
When they were done they surveyed their handiwork with evident satisfaction , and Tarzan surveyed it , too . 
Even to his practiced eye there remained scarce a vestige of evidence that the ancient game trail had been tampered with in any way . 
Puzzle as he would , however , he could not solve the mystery of the concealed pit , for the ways of the blacks were still strange ways to Tarzan . 
They had entered his jungle but a short time before the first of their kind to encroach upon the age old supremacy of the beasts which laired there . 
They had much to learn of these black , hairless creatures that walked erect upon their hind paws and they were learning it slowly , and always to their sorrow . 
Shortly after the blacks had departed , Tarzan swung easily to the trail . 
Sniffing suspiciously , he circled the edge of the pit . 
Squatting upon his haunches , he scraped away a little earth to expose one of the cross bars . 
He sniffed at this , touched it , cocked his head upon one side , and contemplated it gravely for several minutes . 
Then he carefully re covered it , arranging the earth as neatly as had the blacks . 
This done , he swung himself back among the branches of the trees and moved off in search of his hairy fellows , the great apes of the tribe of Kerchak . 
Numa , his yellow green eyes round and burning with concentrated hate , glared up at the dancing figure above him . 
With a final scream of jungle invective and an apelike grimace at his departing foe , Tarzan continued along his way . 
Tarzan seized and broke a small tree limb , and at the sudden cracking sound the ponderous figure halted . 
Tarzan laughed aloud and came closer above the head of the pachyderm . 
Tantor ! Tantor ! he cried . 
Tantor , who can uproot great trees , trembles with fear at the sound of a broken twig . 
In the years of their association Tarzan had discovered that he possessed an inexplicable power to govern and direct his mighty friend . 
It was the power of the man mind over that of the brute and it was just as effective as though both fully understood its origin , though neither did . 
For half an hour Tarzan sprawled there upon Tantor's back . 
Time had no meaning for either of them . 
Life , as they saw it , consisted principally in keeping their stomachs filled . 
To Tarzan this was a less arduous labor than to Tantor , for Tarzan's stomach was smaller , and being omnivorous , food was less difficult to obtain . 
If one sort did not come readily to hand , there were always many others to satisfy his hunger . 
Tantor must needs spend the better part of his life in filling his immense stomach against the needs of his mighty thews . 
It is thus with all the lower orders their lives are so occupied either with searching for food or with the processes of digestion that they have little time for other considerations . 
Doubtless it is this handicap which has kept them from advancing as rapidly as man , who has more time to give to thought upon other matters . 
However , these questions troubled Tarzan but little , and Tantor not at all . 
What the former knew was that he was happy in the companionship of the elephant . 
He did not know why . 
He did not know that because he was a human being a normal , healthy human being he craved some living thing upon which to lavish his affection . 
His childhood playmates among the apes of Kerchak were now great , sullen brutes . 
They felt nor inspired but little affection . 
The younger apes Tarzan still played with occasionally . 
In his savage way he loved them but they were far from satisfying or restful companions . 
Tantor was a great mountain of calm , of poise , of stability . 
It was restful and satisfying to sprawl upon his rough pate and pour one's vague hopes and aspirations into the great ears which flapped ponderously to and fro in apparent understanding . 
Of all the jungle folk , Tantor commanded Tarzan's greatest love since Kala had been taken from him . 
Sometimes Tarzan wondered if Tantor reciprocated his affection . 
It was difficult to know . 
For an hour the ape man foraged . 
A lofty nest yielded its fresh , warm harvest . 
Fruits , berries , and tender plantain found a place upon his menu in the order that he happened upon them , for he did not seek such foods . 
Meat , meat , meat ! It was always meat that Tarzan of the Apes hunted but sometimes meat eluded him , as today . 
And as he roamed the jungle his active mind busied itself not alone with his hunting , but with many other subjects . 
He had a habit of recalling often the events of the preceding days and hours . 
He lived over his visit with Tantor he cogitated upon the digging blacks and the strange , covered pit they had left behind them . 
He wondered again and again what its purpose might be . 
He compared perceptions and arrived at judgments . 
And as he puzzled over the covered pit , there loomed suddenly before his mental vision a huge , gray black bulk which lumbered ponderously along a jungle trail . 
Instantly Tarzan tensed to the shock of a sudden fear . 
Swinging from swaying limb to swaying limb , he raced through the middle terraces where the trees grew close together . 
In his anxiety he cast discretion to the winds . 
He was half way across when directly in his path and but a few yards away there rose from a clump of tall grasses a half dozen chattering birds . 
Instantly Tarzan turned aside , for he knew well enough what manner of creature the presence of these little sentinels proclaimed . 
Simultaneously Buto , the rhinoceros , scrambled to his short legs and charged furiously . 
Haphazard charges Buto , the rhinoceros . 
Nor is the matter of little moment to one whom Buto charges , for if he be caught and tossed , the chances are that naught will interest him thereafter . 
And today it chanced that Buto bore down straight upon Tarzan , across the few yards of knee deep grass which separated them . 
Accident started him in the direction of the ape man , and then his weak eyes discerned the enemy , and with a series of snorts he charged straight for him . 
The little rhino birds fluttered and circled about their giant ward . 
Tarzan alone appeared indifferent and serene . 
Directly in the path of the charge he stood . 
There had been no time to seek safety in the trees beyond the clearing , nor had Tarzan any mind to delay his journey because of Buto . 
He had met the stupid beast before and held him in fine contempt . 
Another spring and he was on the ground behind the brute and racing like a deer for the trees . 
Some distance ahead of him Tantor moved steadily along the well worn elephant trail , and ahead of Tantor a crouching , black warrior listened intently in the middle of the path . 
Presently he heard the sound for which he had been hoping the cracking , snapping sound which heralded the approach of an elephant . 
To his right and left in other parts of the jungle other warriors were watching . 
A low signal , passed from one to another , apprised the most distant that the quarry was afoot . 
Rapidly they converged toward the trail , taking positions in trees down wind from the point at which Tantor must pass them . 
Silently they waited and presently were rewarded by the sight of a mighty tusker carrying an amount of ivory in his long tusks that set their greedy hearts to palpitating . 
No sooner had he passed their positions than the warriors clambered from their perches . 
No longer were they silent , but instead clapped their hands and shouted as they reached the ground . 
Behind him came the yelling warriors , urging him on in the rapid flight which would not permit a careful examination of the ground before him . 
Tantor , the elephant , who could have turned and scattered his adversaries with a single charge , fled like a frightened deer fled toward a hideous , torturing death . 
Once he uttered a piercing call that reverberated through the jungle but Tantor , in the panic of terror , either failed to hear , or hearing , dared not pause to heed . 
A few more steps would precipitate Tantor upon the sharpened stakes Tarzan fairly flew through the trees until he had come abreast of the fleeing animal and then had passed him . 
At the pit's verge the ape man dropped to the ground in the center of the trail . 
Tantor was almost upon him before his weak eyes permitted him to recognize his old friend . 
Stop ! cried Tarzan , and the great beast halted to the upraised hand . 
Tarzan turned and kicked aside some of the brush which hid the pit . 
Instantly Tantor saw and understood . 
They are coming behind you . 
But Tantor , the elephant , is a huge bunch of nerves , and now he was half panic stricken by terror . 
Before him yawned the pit , how far he did not know , but to right and left lay the primeval jungle untouched by man . 
With a squeal the great beast turned suddenly at right angles and burst his noisy way through the solid wall of matted vegetation that would have stopped any but him . 
Tarzan , standing upon the edge of the pit , smiled as he watched Tantor's undignified flight . 
Soon the blacks would come . 
It was best that Tarzan of the Apes faded from the scene . 
He essayed a step from the pit's edge , and as he threw the weight of his body upon his left foot , the earth crumbled away . 
Tarzan made a single Herculean effort to throw himself forward , but it was too late . 
Backward and downward he went toward the sharpened stakes in the bottom of the pit . 
There was no scar upon his body . 
None of the sharpened stakes had pierced him only a swollen spot at the base of the brain indicated the nature of his injury . 
In the falling backward his head had struck upon the side of one of the stakes , rendering him unconscious . 
They had carried him but a short distance toward their village when the ape man's eyelids quivered and raised . 
He looked about him wonderingly for a moment , and then full consciousness returned and he realized the seriousness of his predicament . 
He did not dare test the strength of his bonds while the blacks were carrying him , for fear they would become apprehensive and add to them . 
As the eyes of the villagers fell upon the prisoner , they went wild , and heavy jaws fell open in astonishment and incredulity . 
For months they had lived in perpetual terror of a weird , white demon whom but few had ever glimpsed and lived to describe . 
But now he was in their power ! No longer could he terrorize them . 
Slowly the realization of this dawned upon them . 
A woman , screaming , ran forward and struck the ape man across the face . 
Another and another followed her example , until Tarzan of the Apes was surrounded by a fighting , clawing , yelling mob of natives . 
And then Mbonga , the chief , came , and laying his spear heavily across the shoulders of his people , drove them from their prey . 
We will save him until night , he said . 
Far out in the jungle Tantor , the elephant , his first panic of fear allayed , stood with up pricked ears and undulating trunk . 
But did he feel gratitude ? Would he have risked his own life to have saved Tarzan could he have known of the danger which confronted his friend ? You will doubt it . 
Anyone at all familiar with elephants will doubt it . 
And so it is to be doubted that Tantor would have attempted to overcome his instinctive fear of the black men in an effort to succor Tarzan . 
His captors were leading him to a hut where he might be confined and guarded against the coming of the nocturnal orgy that would mark his torture laden death . 
With raised spears they encircled him as for a moment longer he stood listening . 
From the surrounding village the ape man heard the bustle of preparation for the feast . 
Even Tarzan but half believed that he would come . 
He knew Tantor even better than Tantor knew himself . 
He knew the timid heart which lay in the giant body . 
All afternoon he had been working , working , working with the bonds that held his wrists . 
Very slowly they were giving . 
He could imagine the feel of soft flesh beneath his fingers and the sinking of his white teeth into the throats of his foemen . 
He would let them taste his wrath before they overpowered him ! At last they came painted , befeathered warriors even more hideous than nature had intended them . 
They came and pushed him into the open , where his appearance was greeted by wild shouts from the assembled villagers . 
Like thought , for quickness , he leaped forward among the warriors nearest him . 
A blow sent one to earth , as , growling and snarling , the beast man leaped upon the breast of another . 
His fangs were buried instantly in the jugular of his adversary and then a half hundred black men had leaped upon him and borne him to earth . 
Striking , clawing , and snapping , the ape man fought fought as his foster people had taught him to fight fought like a wild beast cornered . 
Slowly they were overpowering him , though a score of them bled from ugly wounds , and two lay very still beneath the trampling feet , and the rolling bodies of the contestants . 
Gradually , through the milling , battling men , the warrior approached the object of his quest . 
He stood with poised spear above his head waiting for the instant that would expose a vulnerable part of the ape man's body and still not endanger one of the blacks . 
Closer and closer he edged about , following the movements of the twisting , scuffling combatants . 
At last he found an opening . 
Higher he raised his spear , tensing his muscles , rolling beneath his glistening , ebon hide , and then from the jungle just beyond the palisade came a thunderous crashing . 
In the glare of the fires they saw a huge bulk topping the barrier . 
They saw the palisade belly and sway inward . 
They saw it burst as though built of straws , and an instant later Tantor , the elephant , thundered down upon them . 
To right and left the blacks fled , screaming in terror . 
Upon these Tantor charged , trumpeting furiously . 
Above them he stopped , his sensitive trunk weaving among them , and there , at the bottom , he found Tarzan , bloody , but still battling . 
A warrior turned his eyes upward from the melee . 
Above him towered the gigantic bulk of the pachyderm , the little eyes flashing with the reflected light of the fires wicked , frightful , terrifying . 
The warrior screamed , and as he screamed , the sinuous trunk encircled him , lifted him high above the ground , and hurled him far after the fleeing crowd . 
At a distance Mbonga rallied his warriors . 
His greedy eyes had noted the great ivory tusks of the bull . 
The Fight for the Balu TEEKA HAD BECOME a mother . 
Tarzan of the Apes was intensely interested , much more so , in fact , than Taug , the father . 
Tarzan was very fond of Teeka . 
She yet retained her childish delight in the primitive games of tag and hide and go seek which Tarzan's fertile man mind had evolved . 
To play tag through the tree tops is an exciting and inspiring pastime . 
Tarzan delighted in it , but the bulls of his childhood had long since abandoned such childish practices . 
Teeka , though , had been keen for it always until shortly before the baby came but with the advent of her first born , even Teeka changed . 
The evidence of the change surprised and hurt Tarzan immeasurably . 
One morning he saw Teeka squatted upon a low branch hugging something very close to her hairy breast a wee something which squirmed and wriggled . 
Tarzan approached filled with the curiosity which is common to all creatures endowed with brains which have progressed beyond the microscopic stage . 
Teeka rolled her eyes in his direction and strained the squirming mite still closer to her . 
Teeka drew away and bared her fangs . 
In all his experiences with Teeka , never before had she bared fangs at him other than in play but today she did not look playful . 
Tarzan ran his brown fingers through his thick , black hair , cocked his head upon one side , and stared . 
Then he edged a bit nearer , craning his neck to have a better look at the thing which Teeka cuddled . 
Again Teeka drew back her upper lip in a warning snarl . 
Tarzan reached forth a hand , cautiously , to touch the thing which Teeka held , and Teeka , with a hideous growl , turned suddenly upon him . 
At a safe distance Tarzan stopped and turned to regard his erstwhile play fellow in unconcealed astonishment . 
Through his pain and chagrin he smiled , for Tarzan had seen young ape mothers before . 
In a few days she would be less suspicious . 
Still Tarzan was hurt it was not right that Teeka , of all others , should fear him . 
Why , not for the world would he harm her , or her balu , which is the ape word for baby . 
And now , above the pain of his injured arm and the hurt to his pride , rose a still stronger desire to come close and inspect the new born son of Taug . 
Tarzan again came toward the young mother warily and with his line of retreat safely open . 
Tarzan of the Apes will not harm Teeka's balu , he said . 
Go away ! commanded Teeka . 
Go away , or I will kill you . 
Let me see it , urged Tarzan . 
Go away , reiterated the she ape . 
He will make you go away . 
Now Taug , as well as Teeka , had been Tarzan's play fellow while the bull was still young enough to wish to play . 
Once Tarzan had saved Taug's life but the memory of an ape is not overlong , nor would gratitude rise above the parental instinct . 
Tarzan and Taug had once measured strength , and Tarzan had been victorious . 
That fact Taug could be depended upon still to remember but even so , he might readily face another defeat for his first born if he chanced to be in the proper mood . 
From his hideous growls , which now rose in strength and volume , he seemed to be in quite the mood . 
He had no grudge against him , and his man mind told him what the mind of an ape would never have deduced that Taug's attitude in no sense indicated hatred . 
It was but the instinctive urge of the male to protect its offspring and its mate . 
Perhaps the memory of a past defeat at Tarzan's hands goaded him . 
Before the ape could turn again , Tarzan had fled far aloft among the branches of the upper terrace . 
Taug , now wrought to a frenzy of real rage , followed him . 
Teeka peered upward at them . 
It was difficult to say whether she was interested . 
Taug could not climb as rapidly as Tarzan , so the latter reached the high levels to which the heavy ape dared not follow before the former overtook him . 
There he halted and looked down upon his pursuer , making faces at him and calling him such choice names as occurred to the fertile man brain . 
Taug , slow of wit , realized too late the intention of his tormentor . 
Tarzan secured the rope to a stout limb and descended to a point close to Taug . 
Taug , he said , you are as stupid as Buto , the rhinoceros . 
Now you may hang here until you get a little sense in your thick head . 
You may hang here and watch while I go and talk with Teeka . 
Taug blustered and threatened , but Tarzan only grinned at him as he dropped lightly to the lower levels . 
Here he again approached Teeka only to be again greeted with bared fangs and menacing growls . 
Her motherhood was still so new that reason was yet subservient to instinct . 
Realizing the futility of attempting to catch and chastise Tarzan , Teeka sought to escape him . 
The ape man would have liked to handle the tiny thing . 
The very sight of it awakened in his breast a strange yearning . 
He wished to cuddle and fondle the grotesque little ape thing . 
It was Teeka's balu and Tarzan had once lavished his young affections upon Teeka . 
But now his attention was diverted by the voice of Taug . 
The threats that had filled the ape's mouth had turned to pleas . 
The tightening noose was stopping the circulation of the blood in his legs he was beginning to suffer . 
Several apes sat near him highly interested in his predicament . 
They made uncomplimentary remarks about him , for each of them had felt the weight of Taug's mighty hands and the strength of his great jaws . 
With the coming of the balu , Teeka's care free world had suddenly become peopled with innumerable enemies . 
She saw an implacable foe in Tarzan , always heretofore her best friend . 
Hollow from hunger , Sheeta , the panther , glared greedily at the tempting meat so close at hand , but the sight of the great bulls beyond gave him pause . 
The tip of his tawny tail moved in spasmodic little jerks his lower jaw hung low , exposing a red tongue and yellow fangs . 
But all this Teeka did not see , nor did any other of the apes who were feeding or resting about her . 
Nor did Tarzan or the apes in the trees . 
Hearing the abuse which the bulls were pouring upon the helpless Taug , Tarzan clambered quickly among them . 
One was edging closer and leaning far out in an effort to reach the dangling ape . 
He had worked himself into quite a fury through recollection of the last occasion upon which Taug had mauled him , and now he was bent upon revenge . 
Once he had grasped the swinging ape , he would quickly have drawn him within reach of his jaws . 
Tarzan saw and was wroth . 
He loved a fair fight , but the thing which this ape contemplated revolted him . 
Surprised and enraged , the bull clutched madly for support as he toppled sidewise , and then with an agile movement succeeded in projecting himself toward another limb a few feet below . 
He was explaining again to Taug the depths of the latter's abysmal ignorance , and pointing out how much greater and mightier was Tarzan of the Apes than Taug or any other ape . 
In the end he would release Taug , but not until Taug was fully acquainted with his own inferiority . 
And then the maddened bull came from beneath , and instantly Tarzan was transformed from a good natured , teasing youth into a snarling , savage beast . 
Along his scalp the hair bristled his upper lip drew back that his fighting fangs might be uncovered and ready . 
With a scream that carried no human note , Tarzan leaped straight at the throat of the attacker . 
The impetuosity of this act and the weight and momentum of his body carried the bull backward , clutching and clawing for support , down through the leafy branches of the tree . 
For fifteen feet the two fell , Tarzan's teeth buried in the jugular of his opponent , when a stout branch stopped their descent . 
Even Sheeta , the panther , crouched for a spring at the edge of the little clearing , moved uneasily as the mighty voice sent its weird cry reverberating through the jungle . 
To right and left , nervously , glanced Sheeta , as though assuring himself that the way of escape lay ready at hand . 
I am Tarzan of the Apes , boasted the ape man mighty hunter , mighty fighter ! None in all the jungle so great as Tarzan . 
Then he made his way back in the direction of Taug . 
Teeka had watched the happenings in the tree . 
She had even placed her precious balu upon the soft grasses and come a little nearer that she might better witness all that was passing in the branches above her . 
And Sheeta , the panther , saw that the she ape had left her cub alone among the grasses . 
He moved his tail again , as though this closest approximation of lashing in which he dared indulge might stimulate his momentarily waned courage . 
The cry of the victorious ape man still held his nerves beneath its spell . 
It would be several minutes before he again could bring himself to the point of charging into view of the giant anthropoids . 
Quickly Taug drew himself to a position of safety and shook off the noose . 
In his rage maddened heart was no room for gratitude to the ape man . 
He recalled only the fact that Tarzan had laid this painful indignity upon him . 
He would be revenged , but just at present his legs were so numb and his head so dizzy that he must postpone the gratification of his vengeance . 
Tarzan was coiling his rope the while he lectured Taug on the futility of pitting his poor powers , physical and intellectual , against those of his betters . 
Teeka had come close beneath the tree and was peering upward . 
Sheeta was worming his way stealthily forward , his belly close to the ground . 
In another moment he would be clear of the underbrush and ready for the rapid charge and the quick retreat that would end the brief existence of Teeka's balu . 
Then Tarzan chanced to look up and across the clearing . 
Instantly his attitude of good natured bantering and pompous boastfulness dropped from him . 
Silently and swiftly he shot downward toward the ground . 
Teeka , seeing him coming , and thinking that he was after her or her balu , bristled and prepared to fight . 
But Tarzan sped by her , and as he went , her eyes followed him and she saw the cause of his sudden descent and his rapid charge across the clearing . 
There in full sight now was Sheeta , the panther , stalking slowly toward the tiny , wriggling balu which lay among the grasses many yards away . 
Teeka gave voice to a shrill scream of terror and of warning as she dashed after the ape man . 
He saw the she ape's cub before him , and he thought that this other was bent upon robbing him of his prey . 
With an angry growl , he charged . 
Taug , warned by Teeka's cry , came lumbering down to her assistance . 
Behind her came Taug , warily and with many pauses and much bluster , and still behind him came other bulls , snarling ferociously and uttering their uncanny challenges . 
Sheeta's yellow green eyes glared terribly at Tarzan , and past Tarzan they shot brief glances at the apes of Kerchak advancing upon him . 
Discretion prompted him to turn and flee , but hunger and the close proximity of the tempting morsel in the grass before him urged him to remain . 
He reached forth a paw toward Teeka's balu , and as he did so , with a savage guttural , Tarzan of the Apes was upon him . 
The panther reared to meet the ape man's attack . 
Instantly the balu was forgotten by Sheeta , the panther . 
Before now he had battled with fanged monsters , nor always had he come away unscathed . 
He knew the risk that he ran , but Tarzan of the Apes , inured to the sight of suffering and death , shrank from neither , for he feared neither . 
As Tarzan leaped to close quarters with the panther , Teeka had run quickly in and snatched up her balu . 
Thus goaded the bulls came closer , redoubling their hideous clamor but Sheeta was already sufficiently engaged he did not even hear them . 
It was the sight and smell of this blood , possibly , which wrought upon the encircling apes but it was Taug who really was responsible for the thing they did . 
Taug , but a moment before filled with rage toward Tarzan of the Apes , stood close to the battling pair , his red rimmed , wicked little eyes glaring at them . 
With all the weight of his great body he leaped , hideously growling , upon Sheeta . 
His long fighting fangs buried themselves in the white throat . 
His powerful arms beat and clawed at the soft fur until it flew upward in the jungle breeze . 
And with Taug's example before them the other bulls charged , burying Sheeta beneath rending fangs and filling all the forest with the wild din of their battle cries . 
Ah ! but it was a wondrous and inspiring sight this battle of the primordial apes and the great , white ape man with their ancestral foe , Sheeta , the panther . 
Bitten and biting , tearing and torn , Sheeta battled for his life but the odds were against him . 
Presently Sheeta's torn and bloody body ceased its titanic struggles . 
It stiffened spasmodically , twitched and was still , yet the bulls continued to lacerate it until the beautiful coat was torn to shreds . 
At last they desisted from sheer physical weariness , and then from the tangle of bloody bodies rose a crimson giant , straight as an arrow . 
One by one his hairy fellows of the tribe of Kerchak followed his example . 
The shes came down from their perches of safety and struck and reviled the dead body of Sheeta . 
The young apes refought the battle in mimicry of their mighty elders . 
Teeka was quite close to Tarzan . 
The God of Tarzan AMONG THE BOOKS of his dead father in the little cabin by the land locked harbor , Tarzan of the Apes found many things to puzzle his young head . 
By much labor and through the medium of infinite patience as well , he had , without assistance , discovered the purpose of the little bugs which ran riot upon the printed pages . 
It was like following a quarry through the jungle it was hunting , and Tarzan of the Apes was an indefatigable huntsman . 
There were , of course , certain words which aroused his curiosity to a greater extent than others , words which , for one reason or another , excited his imagination . 
There was one , for example , the meaning of which was rather difficult to grasp . 
It was the word GOD . 
Another fact which attracted him to this word was the number of he bugs which figured in its definition Supreme Deity , Creator or Upholder of the Universe . 
This must be a very important word indeed , he would have to look into it , and he did , though it still baffled him after many months of thought and study . 
And always he added to his store of knowledge . 
But of the meaning of GOD he was yet in doubt . 
Once he thought he had grasped it that God was a mighty chieftain , king of all the Mangani . 
But in all the books he had there was no picture of God , though he found much to confirm his belief that God was a great , an all powerful individual . 
He saw pictures of places where God was worshiped but never any sign of God . 
Finally he began to wonder if God were not of a different form than he , and at last he determined to set out in search of Him . 
He knew this , he said , because the Dum Dum always was danced in the light of Goro . 
This reasoning , though entirely satisfactory to Numgo and Mumga , failed fully to convince Tarzan . 
However , it gave him a basis for further investigation along a new line . 
He would investigate the moon . 
That night he clambered to the loftiest pinnacle of the tallest jungle giant . 
The moon was full , a great , glorious , equatorial moon . 
The ape man , upright upon a slender , swaying limb , raised his bronzed face to the silver orb . 
He thought that Goro was attempting to elude him . 
Come , Goro ! he cried , Tarzan of the Apes will not harm you ! But still the moon held aloof . 
Unlike the apes he was not satisfied merely to have a mental picture of the things he knew , he must have a word descriptive of each . 
Thus it was an imposing word which Tarzan made of GOD . 
The masculine prefix of the apes is BU , the feminine MU g Tarzan had named LA , o he pronounced TU , and d was MO . 
So the word God evolved itself into BULAMUTUMUMO , or , in English , he g she o she d . 
Similarly he had arrived at a strange and wonderful spelling of his own name . 
Tarzan is derived from the two ape words TAR and ZAN , meaning white skin . 
It was given him by his foster mother , Kala , the great she ape . 
And so Tarzan harangued the moon , and when Goro did not reply , Tarzan of the Apes waxed wroth . 
He swelled his giant chest and bared his fighting fangs , and hurled into the teeth of the dead satellite the challenge of the bull ape . 
You are not Bulamutumumo , he cried . 
You are not king of the jungle folk . 
You are not so great as Tarzan , mighty fighter , mighty hunter . 
None there is so great as Tarzan . 
If there be a Bulamutumumo , Tarzan can kill him . 
Come down , Goro , great coward , and fight with Tarzan . 
I am Tarzan , the killer . 
Tarzan spoke of the moon as HE , for all things large or awe inspiring are male to the ape folk . 
Numgo was not much impressed but he was very sleepy , so he told Tarzan to go away and leave his betters alone . 
But where shall I find God ? insisted Tarzan . 
You are very old if there is a God you must have seen Him . 
What does He look like ? Where does He live ? I am God , replied Numgo . 
Now sleep and disturb me no more . 
Then , with a low growl he leaped upon the ape and buried his fangs in the other's hairy shoulder , clutching the great neck in his mighty fingers . 
Twice he shook the old ape , then he released his tooth hold . 
Are you God ? he demanded . 
I am only a poor , old ape . 
Go ask the Gomangani where God is . 
They are hairless like yourself and very wise , too . 
Tarzan released Numgo and turned away . 
So it was that Tarzan set forth through the trees toward the village of the blacks , all excitement at the prospect of discovering the Supreme Being , the Creator of all things . 
If he met God , Tarzan would be prepared . 
One could never tell whether a grass rope , a war spear , or a poisoned arrow would be most efficacious against an unfamiliar foe . 
Tarzan of the Apes was quite content if God wished to fight , the ape man had no doubt as to the outcome of the struggle . 
It was dark when Tarzan came to the village of Mbonga . 
As silently as the silent shadows of the night he sought his accustomed place among the branches of the great tree which overhung the palisade . 
Below him , in the village street , he saw men and women . 
The men were hideously painted more hideously than usual . 
Among them moved a weird and grotesque figure , a tall figure that went upon the two legs of a man and yet had the head of a buffalo . 
A tail dangled to his ankles behind him , and in one hand he carried a zebra's tail while the other clutched a bunch of small arrows . 
He saw the black men and women fall back at its approach as though they stood in terror of its mysterious powers . 
Presently he discovered that the deity was speaking and that all listened in silence to his words . 
Tarzan was sure that none other than God could inspire such awe in the hearts of the Gomangani , or stop their mouths so effectually without recourse to arrows or spears . 
Tarzan had come to look with contempt upon the blacks , principally because of their garrulity . 
The small apes talked a great deal and ran away from an enemy . 
The big , old bulls of Kerchak talked but little and fought upon the slightest provocation . 
Numa , the lion , was not given to loquacity , yet of all the jungle folk there were few who fought more often than he . 
He saw three youths receive their first war spears in a weird ceremony which the grotesque witch doctor strove successfully to render uncanny and awesome . 
Hugely interested , he watched the slashing of the three brown arms and the exchange of blood with Mbonga , the chief , in the rites of the ceremony of blood brotherhood . 
The longer Tarzan watched , the more convinced he became that his eyes were upon God , and with the conviction came determination to have word with the deity . 
With Tarzan of the Apes , to think was to act . 
The people of Mbonga were keyed to the highest pitch of hysterical excitement . 
They needed little to release the accumulated pressure of static nerve force which the terrorizing mummery of the witch doctor had induced . 
A lion roared , suddenly and loud , close without the palisade . 
The blacks started nervously , dropping into utter silence as they listened for a repetition of that all too familiar and always terrorizing voice . 
Already the evening had been vastly profitable to him . 
Numa's roar still reverberated along taut nerves when a woman's laugh , shrill and piercing , shattered the silence of the village . 
It was this moment that Tarzan chose to drop lightly from his tree into the village street . 
Fearless among his blood enemies he stood , taller by a full head than many of Mbonga's warriors , straight as their straightest arrow , muscled like Numa , the lion . 
For a moment Tarzan stood looking straight at the witch doctor . 
Then the nerves of the blacks could stand no more . 
For months the terror of the strange , white , jungle god had been upon them . 
As one man they turned and fled , scattering for their huts , as Tarzan advanced . 
For a moment one and one only held his ground . 
It was the witch doctor . 
More than half self hypnotized into a belief in his own charlatanry he faced this new demon who threatened to undermine his ancient and lucrative profession . 
Are you God ? asked Tarzan . 
Thus he remained for an instant before he uttered a loud Boo ! which was evidently intended to frighten Tarzan away but in reality had no such effect . 
He had set out to approach and examine God and nothing upon earth might now stay his feet . 
Seeing that his antics had no potency with the visitor , the witch doctor tried some new medicine . 
This medicine must be short medicine , however , for the creature , god or demon , was steadily closing up the distance which had separated them . 
Beyond this line you cannot pass , for my medicine is strong medicine , he cried . 
Stop , or you will fall dead as your foot touches this spot . 
I am the most powerful witch doctor in the world I fear nothing , for I cannot die . 
I But he got no further instead he turned and fled as Tarzan of the Apes crossed the magical dead line and still lived . 
As the witch doctor ran , Tarzan almost lost his temper . 
This was no way for God to act , at least not in accordance with the conception Tarzan had come to have of God . 
Come back ! he cried . 
Come back , God , I will not harm you . 
Just at the entrance to his hut the witch doctor was overhauled . 
A heavy hand fell upon his shoulder to drag him back . 
It seized upon a portion of the buffalo hide , dragging the disguise from him . 
It was a naked black man that Tarzan saw dodge into the darkness of the hut's interior . 
So this was what he had thought was God ! Tarzan's lip curled in an angry snarl as he leaped into the hut after the terror stricken witch doctor . 
In the blackness within he found the man huddled at the far side and dragged him forth into the comparative lightness of the moonlit night . 
The witch doctor bit and scratched in an attempt to escape but a few cuffs across the head brought him to a better realization of the futility of resistance . 
Beneath the moon Tarzan held the cringing figure upon its shaking feet . 
So you are God ! he cried . 
If you be God , then Tarzan is greater than God , and so the ape man thought . 
I am Tarzan , he shouted into the ear of the black . 
Tarzan is greater than the Mangani he is greater than the Gomangani . 
With his own hands he has slain Numa , the lion , and Sheeta , the panther there is none so great as Tarzan . 
Tarzan is greater than God . 
See ! and with a sudden wrench he twisted the black's neck until the fellow shrieked in pain and then slumped to the earth in a swoon . 
Placing his foot upon the neck of the fallen witch doctor , the ape man raised his face to the moon and uttered the long , shrill scream of the victorious bull ape . 
Then he stooped and snatched the zebra's tail from the nerveless fingers of the unconscious man and without a backward glance retraced his footsteps across the village . 
From several hut doorways frightened eyes watched him . 
Mbonga , the chief , was one of those who had seen what passed before the hut of the witch doctor . 
Mbonga must do something to counteract the evil influence of the forest demon's victory over the witch doctor . 
He raised his heavy spear and crept silently from his hut in the wake of the retreating ape man . 
Down the village street walked Tarzan , as unconcerned and as deliberate as though only the friendly apes of Kerchak surrounded him instead of a village full of armed enemies . 
Seeming only was the indifference of Tarzan , for alert and watchful was every well trained sense . 
Mbonga , wily stalker of keen eared jungle creatures , moved now in utter silence . 
Closer and closer to the slowly moving ape man he came . 
Now he raised his war spear , throwing his spear hand far back above his right shoulder . 
Once and for all would Mbonga , the chief , rid himself and his people of the menace of this terrifying enemy . 
He would make no poor cast he would take pains , and he would hurl his weapon with such great force as would finish the demon forever . 
But Mbonga , sure as he thought himself , erred in his calculations . 
He might believe that he was stalking a man he did not know , however , that it was a man with the delicate sense perception of the lower orders . 
Tarzan , when he had turned his back upon his enemies , had noted what Mbonga never would have thought of considering in the hunting of man the wind . 
It was blowing in the same direction that Tarzan was proceeding , carrying to his delicate nostrils the odors which arose behind him . 
He knew that a man was following him and coming closer , and his judgment warned him of the purpose of the stalker . 
It went a trifle high and Tarzan stooped to let it pass over his head then he sprang toward the chief . 
But Mbonga did not wait to receive him . 
Instead , he turned and fled for the dark doorway of the nearest hut , calling as he went for his warriors to fall upon the stranger and slay him . 
Well indeed might Mbonga scream for help , for Tarzan , young and fleet footed , covered the distance between them in great leaps , at the speed of a charging lion . 
He was growling , too , not at all unlike Numa himself . 
Mbonga heard and his blood ran cold . 
He could feel the wool stiffen upon his pate and a prickly chill run up his spine , as though Death had come and run his cold finger along Mbonga's back . 
Others heard , too , and saw , from the darkness of their huts bold warriors , hideously painted , grasping heavy war spears in nerveless fingers . 
Against Numa , the lion , they would have charged fearlessly . 
Against many times their own number of black warriors would they have raced to the protection of their chief but this weird jungle demon filled them with terror . 
There was nothing human in the bestial growls that rumbled up from his deep chest there was nothing human in the bared fangs , or the catlike leaps . 
Mbonga's warriors were terrified too terrified to leave the seeming security of their huts while they watched the beast man spring full upon the back of their old chieftain . 
Mbonga went down with a scream of terror . 
He was too frightened even to attempt to defend himself . 
He just lay beneath his antagonist in a paralysis of fear , screaming at the top of his lungs . 
Tarzan half rose and kneeled above the black . 
He raised it close above Mbonga's neck . 
The old black whimpered with terror . 
He pleaded for his life in a tongue which Tarzan could not understand . 
For the first time the ape man had a close view of the chief . 
He saw an old man , a very old man with scrawny neck and wrinkled face a dried , parchment like face which resembled some of the little monkeys Tarzan knew so well . 
Something stayed the ape man's hand for an instant . 
He wondered why it was that he hesitated to make the kill never before had he thus delayed . 
The old man seemed to wither and shrink to a bag of puny bones beneath his eyes . 
It was pity pity for a poor , frightened , old man . 
Tarzan rose and turned away , leaving Mbonga , the chief , unharmed . 
With head held high the ape man walked through the village , swung himself into the branches of the tree which overhung the palisade and disappeared from the sight of the villagers . 
All the way back to the stamping ground of the apes , Tarzan sought for an explanation of the strange power which had stayed his hand and prevented him from slaying Mbonga . 
It was as though someone greater than he had commanded him to spare the life of the old man . 
The sun was well up in the heavens when he awoke . 
The apes were astir in search of food . 
An orchid , dangling close beside his head , opened slowly , unfolding its delicate petals to the warmth and light of the sun which but recently had penetrated to its shady retreat . 
In following out the many ramifications of the dictionary definition of GOD he had come upon the word CREATE to cause to come into existence to form out of nothing . 
Tarzan almost had arrived at something tangible when a distant wail startled him from his preoccupation into sensibility of the present and the real . 
The wail came from the jungle at some little distance from Tarzan's swaying couch . 
It was the wail of a tiny balu . 
Tarzan recognized it at once as the voice of Gazan , Teeka's baby . 
They had called it Gazan because its soft , baby hair had been unusually red , and GAZAN in the language of the great apes , means red skin . 
The wail was immediately followed by a real scream of terror from the small lungs . 
Tarzan was electrified into instant action . 
Like an arrow from a bow he shot through the trees in the direction of the sound . 
Ahead of him he heard the savage snarling of an adult she ape . 
It was Teeka to the rescue . 
The danger must be very real . 
Tarzan could tell that by the note of rage mingled with fear in the voice of the she . 
Running along bending limbs , swinging from one tree to another , the ape man raced through the middle terraces toward the sounds which now had risen in volume to deafening proportions . 
But Tarzan , swifter than his heavy fellows , distanced them all . 
It was he who was first upon the scene . 
What he saw sent a cold chill through his giant frame , for the enemy was the most hated and loathed of all the jungle creatures . 
Twined in a great tree was Histah , the snake huge , ponderous , slimy and in the folds of its deadly embrace was Teeka's little balu , Gazan . 
Nothing in the jungle inspired within the breast of Tarzan so near a semblance to fear as did the hideous Histah . 
The apes , too , loathed the terrifying reptile and feared him even more than they did Sheeta , the panther , or Numa , the lion . 
Of all their enemies there was none they gave a wider berth than they gave Histah , the snake . 
Tarzan knew all too well how deep rooted was Teeka's terror of Histah . 
He scarce could believe the testimony of his own eyes then , when they told him that she had voluntarily rushed into that deadly embrace . 
Nor was Teeka's innate dread of the monster much greater than Tarzan's own . 
Never , willingly , had he touched a snake . 
Still clinging to the tree , the mighty reptile held the three as though they had been without weight , the while it sought to crush the life from them . 
Yet on he fought , nor once did he seek to escape the horrid death that confronted him his sole aim was to slay Histah and thus free Teeka and her balu . 
The great , wide gaping jaws of the snake turned and hovered above him . 
Instantly a brown hand leaped forth and seized the mottled neck , and another drove the heavy hunting knife to the hilt into the little brain . 
Convulsively Histah shuddered and relaxed , tensed and relaxed again , whipping and striking with his great body but no longer sentient or sensible . 
Histah was dead , but in his death throes he might easily dispatch a dozen apes or men . 
Quickly Tarzan seized Teeka and dragged her from the loosened embrace , dropping her to the ground beneath , then he extricated the balu and tossed it to its mother . 
Strangely , he did not give the victory cry over the vanquished Histah . 
Why , he could not have told you , other than that to him Histah was not an animal . 
He differed in some peculiar way from the other denizens of the jungle . 
Tarzan only knew that he hated him . 
At the pool Tarzan drank his fill and lay stretched upon the soft grass beneath the shade of a tree . 
His mind reverted to the battle with Histah , the snake . 
It seemed strange to him that Teeka should have placed herself within the folds of the horrid monster . 
Why had she done it ? Why , indeed , had he ? Teeka did not belong to him , nor did Teeka's balu . 
Why then had he done this thing ? Histah was not food for him when he was dead . 
What made him do such things ? Somebody more powerful than he must force him to act at times . 
All powerful , thought Tarzan . 
The little bugs say that God is all powerful . 
It must be that God made me do these things , for I never did them by myself . 
It was God who made Teeka rush upon Histah . 
Teeka would never go near Histah of her own volition . 
It was God who held my knife from the throat of the old Gomangani . 
God accomplishes strange things for he is 'all powerful . 
I cannot see Him but I know that it must be God who does these things . 
No Mangani , no Gomangani , no Tarmangani could do them . 
And what was God ? What did God look like ? Of that he had no conception but he was sure that everything that was good came from God . 
The flowers and the trees were good and beautiful . 
He made the other creatures , too , that each might have food upon which to live . 
He had made Sheeta , the panther , with his beautiful coat and Numa , the lion , with his noble head and his shaggy mane . 
He had made Bara , the deer , lovely and graceful . 
He could not quite reconcile it to his conception of his new found God . 
Who made Histah , the snake ? Tarzan and the Black Boy TARZAN OF THE Apes sat at the foot of a great tree braiding a new grass rope . 
Beside him lay the frayed remnants of the old one , torn and severed by the fangs and talons of Sheeta , the panther . 
Tarzan smiled as he recalled Sheeta's great rage , his frantic efforts to free himself from the entangling strands , his uncanny screams that were part hate , part anger , part terror . 
He smiled in retrospection at the discomfiture of his enemy , and in anticipation of another day as he added an extra strand to his new rope . 
This would be the strongest , the heaviest rope that Tarzan of the Apes ever had fashioned . 
Visions of Numa , the lion , straining futilely in its embrace thrilled the ape man . 
He was quite content , for his hands and his brain were busy . 
Content , too , were his fellows of the tribe of Kerchak , searching for food in the clearing and the surrounding trees about him . 
No perplexing thoughts of the future burdened their minds , and only occasionally , dimly arose recollections of the near past . 
They were stimulated to a species of brutal content by the delectable business of filling their bellies . 
Afterward they would sleep it was their life , and they enjoyed it as we enjoy ours , you and I as Tarzan enjoyed his . 
No more did Teeka , the mother , or Taug , the sullen sire , harbor suspicions of Tarzan's intentions toward their first born . 
Here he would squat for a moment or two , quite proud of his achievement , then clamber to the ground again and repeat . 
Now he discovered the tail of the rope upon which Tarzan was working . 
Grasping it in one small hand he bounced away , for all the world like an animated rubber ball , snatching it from the ape man's hand and running off across the clearing . 
Straight toward his mother raced Gazan , and after him came Tarzan . 
At her very feet the ape man overhauled the balu and , though the youngster squealed and fought when Tarzan seized him , Teeka only glanced casually in their direction . 
No longer did she fear harm to her first born at the hands of the ape man . 
But even under this handicap Tarzan finally completed the rope , a long , pliant weapon , stronger than any he ever had made before . 
As Tarzan traveled , dividing his quest for food with one for a sufficiently noble quarry whereupon to test his new weapon , his mind often was upon Gazan . 
Then it was that Tarzan felt quite alone in the world and longed desperately for one who should turn first to him for succor and protection . 
Taug had Teeka Teeka had Gazan and nearly every other bull and cow of the tribe of Kerchak had one or more to love and by whom to be loved . 
Here he had watched them with their little balus playful creatures , spotted leopard like . 
And he had seen the young fawn with Bara , the deer , and with Buto , the rhinoceros , its ungainly little one . 
Each of the creatures of the jungle had its own except Tarzan . 
They had worn smooth the bark upon its upper surface . 
But to Tarzan , meat was meat naught that was edible or tasty might pass a hungry Tarzan unchallenged and unattacked . 
In hunger , as in battle , the ape man out savaged the dreariest denizens of the jungle . 
So today , instead of staying his hand until a less formidable feast found its way toward him , Tarzan dropped his new noose about the neck of Horta , the boar . 
It was an excellent test for the untried strands . 
As Horta grunted and charged , slashing the sturdy jungle patriarch with his mighty tusks until the bark flew in every direction , Tarzan dropped to the ground behind him . 
Tarzan walked in toward Horta , who swung now to face his enemy . 
So it would have seemed to one who knew Horta even slightly and Tarzan not at all . 
For a moment Horta stood motionless facing the ape man . 
His wicked , deep set eyes flashed angrily . 
He shook his lowered head . 
Mud eater ! jeered the ape man . 
Even your meat stinks , but it is juicy and makes Tarzan strong . 
Today I shall eat your heart , O Lord of the Great Tusks , that it shall keep savage that which pounds against my own ribs . 
Horta , understanding nothing of what Tarzan said , was none the less enraged because of that . 
He saw only a naked man thing , hairless and futile , pitting his puny fangs and soft muscles against his own indomitable savagery , and he charged . 
A quick leap carried him from the zone of the creature's death throes , and a moment later the hot and dripping heart of Horta was in his grasp . 
A river winds close beside the village of the black men . 
Tarzan reached its side a little below the clearing where squat the thatched huts of the Negroes . 
The river life was ever fascinating to the ape man . 
He found pleasure in watching the ungainly antics of Duro , the hippopotamus , and keen sport in tormenting the sluggish crocodile , Gimla , as he basked in the sun . 
This day he came upon a woman and her child farther down stream than usual . 
The former was searching for a species of shellfish which was to be found in the mud close to the river bank . 
She was a young black woman of about thirty . 
Her teeth were filed to sharp points , for her people ate the flesh of man . 
Her nose , too , was slit , and through the slit was a wooden skewer . 
Metal ornaments dangled from her ears , and upon her forehead and cheeks upon her chin and the bridge of her nose were tattooings in colors that were mellowed now by age . 
She was naked except for a girdle of grasses about her waist . 
Her child was a boy of ten , lithe , straight and , for a black , handsome . 
Tarzan looked upon the two from the concealing foliage of a near by bush . 
Here was a balu fashioned as he himself was fashioned . 
Of course this one's skin was black but what of it ? Tarzan had never seen a white man . 
In so far as he knew , he was the sole representative of that strange form of life upon the earth . 
The black boy should make an excellent balu for Tarzan , since he had none of his own . 
Tarzan uncoiled his rope , and shook out the noose . 
The two before him , all ignorant of the near presence of that terrifying form , continued preoccupied in the search for shellfish , poking about in the mud with short sticks . 
Tarzan stepped from the jungle behind them his noose lay open upon the ground beside him . 
There was a quick movement of the right arm and the noose rose gracefully into the air , hovered an instant above the head of the unsuspecting youth , then settled . 
As it encompassed his body below the shoulders , Tarzan gave a quick jerk that tightened it about the boy's arms , pinioning them to his sides . 
With a savage cry of terror and rage , the woman leaped fearlessly toward the ape man . 
In her mien Tarzan saw determination and courage which would shrink not even from death itself . 
She was very hideous and frightful even when her face was in repose but convulsed by passion , her expression became terrifyingly fiendish . 
Even the ape man drew back , but more in revulsion than fear fear he knew not . 
The frightened child rolled his eyes fearfully toward his captor , until the whites showed gleaming all about the irises . 
I am Tarzan , said the ape man , in the vernacular of the anthropoids . 
I will not harm you . 
You are to be Tarzan's balu . 
The best in the jungle shall be for Tarzan's balu , for Tarzan is a mighty hunter . 
None need you fear , not even Numa , the lion , for Tarzan is a mighty fighter . 
None so great as Tarzan , son of Kala . 
Then , too , he had heard stories of this bad , white forest god . 
It was he who had slain Kulonga and others of the warriors of Mbonga , the chief . 
Doubtless this wicked god fed upon little boys . 
Are you cold , Go bu balu ? asked Tarzan , using the simian equivalent of black he baby in lieu of a better name . 
Not a word could he understand . 
This would never do ! He must teach Go bu balu a language which sounded like talk . 
It was quite certain to Tarzan that Go bu balu's speech was not talk at all . 
It sounded quite as senseless as the chattering of the silly birds . 
It would be best , thought the ape man , quickly to get him among the tribe of Kerchak where he would hear the Mangani talking among themselves . 
Thus he would soon learn an intelligible form of speech . 
His newly acquired balu had much indeed to learn . 
It was pitiful that a balu of his size and strength should be so backward . 
He tried to coax Tibo to follow him but the child dared not , so Tarzan picked him up and carried him upon his back . 
Tibo no longer scratched or bit . 
Even now , were he set upon the ground , the chance was remote , he knew , that he could find his way back to the village of Mbonga , the chief . 
So far the terrible white god of the jungle had offered him no harm . 
He could not expect even this much consideration from the frightful , green eyed man eaters . 
It would be the lesser of two evils , then , to let the white god carry him away without scratching and biting , as he had done at first . 
As Tarzan swung rapidly through the trees , little Tibo closed his eyes in terror rather than look longer down into the frightful abysses beneath . 
And so Tarzan came to the clearing where the tribe fed , dropping among them with his new balu clinging tightly to his shoulders . 
He was fairly in the midst of them before Tibo spied a single one of the great hairy forms , or before the apes realized that Tarzan was not alone . 
When they saw the little Gomangani perched upon his back some of them came forward in curiosity with upcurled lips and snarling mien . 
He saw their beetling brows , their great fangs , their wicked eyes . 
He noted their mighty muscles rolling beneath their shaggy hides . 
Their every attitude and expression was a menace . 
Tarzan saw this , too . 
He drew Tibo around in front of him . 
This is Tarzan's Go bu balu , he said . 
Do not harm him , or Tarzan will kill you , and he bared his own fangs in the teeth of the nearest ape . 
It is a Gomangani , replied the ape . 
The Gomangani are our enemies . 
Go away , snarled Tarzan . 
I tell you , Gunto , it is Tarzan's balu . 
Go away or Tarzan will kill you , and the ape man took a step toward the advancing ape . 
Next came Teeka , prompted by curiosity . 
At her side skipped little Gazan . 
They were filled with wonder like the others but Teeka did not bare her fangs . 
Tarzan saw this and motioned that she approach . 
Tarzan has a balu now , he said . 
He and Teeka's balu can play together . 
It is a Gomangani , replied Teeka . 
It will kill my balu . 
Take it away , Tarzan . 
It could not harm Pamba , the rat , he said . 
It is but a little balu and very frightened . 
Let Gazan play with it . 
The small ape , guided by instinct , drew back toward its mother , baring its small fangs and screaming in mingled fear and rage . 
Tibo , too , showed no signs of desiring a closer acquaintance with Gazan , so Tarzan gave up his efforts for the time . 
During the week which followed , Tarzan found his time much occupied . 
His balu was a greater responsibility than he had counted upon . 
When the ape man hunted , he must carry Go bu balu about with him . 
It was irksome , and then the little black seemed so stupid and fearful to Tarzan . 
It was quite helpless against even the lesser of the jungle creatures . 
Tarzan wondered how it had survived at all . 
He often had watched the blacks within their village . 
He had seen the children playing , and always there had been much laughter but little Go bu balu never laughed . 
It was true that Tarzan himself never laughed . 
Upon occasion he smiled , grimly , but to laughter he was a stranger . 
The black , however , should have laughed , reasoned the ape man . 
It was the way of the Gomangani . 
Also , he saw that the little fellow often refused food and was growing thinner day by day . 
At times he surprised the boy sobbing softly to himself . 
Tarzan tried to comfort him , even as fierce Kala had comforted Tarzan when the ape man was a balu , but all to no avail . 
Go bu balu merely no longer feared Tarzan that was all . 
He feared every other living thing within the jungle . 
He feared the jungle days with their long excursions through the dizzy tree tops . 
He feared the jungle nights with their swaying , perilous couches far above the ground , and the grunting and coughing of the great carnivora prowling beneath him . 
Tarzan did not know what to do . 
The little black boy from cringing terror at the sight of Tarzan passed by degrees into trustfulness and admiration . 
Only kindness had he ever received at the hands of the great white devil god , yet he had seen with what ferocity his kindly captor could deal with others . 
He had seen him leap upon a certain he ape which persisted in attempting to seize and slay Go bu balu . 
He had seen the strong , white teeth of the ape man fastened in the neck of his adversary , and the mighty muscles tensed in battle . 
He had seen Tarzan bring down a buck , just as Numa , the lion , might have done , leaping upon its back and fastening his fangs in the creature's neck . 
But Tibo , the little black boy , lacked the divine spark which had permitted Tarzan , the white boy , to benefit by his training in the ways of the fierce jungle . 
In imagination he was wanting , and imagination is but another name for super intelligence . 
Imagination it is which builds bridges , and cities , and empires . 
While Tarzan pondered his problem concerning the future of his balu , Fate was arranging to take the matter out of his hands . 
Momaya , Tibo's mother , grief stricken at the loss of her boy , had consulted the tribal witch doctor , but to no avail . 
Too , the bodies always had been found , sometimes dropping as though from the clouds to alight in the center of the village . 
Mother love , however , is one of the human passions which closely approximates to the dignity of an irresistible force . 
It drives the frail flesh of weak women to deeds of heroic measure . 
Momaya was neither frail nor weak , physically , but she was a woman , an ignorant , superstitious , African savage . 
She believed in devils , in black magic , and in witchcraft . 
To Momaya , the jungle was inhabited by far more terrifying things than lions and leopards horrifying , nameless things which possessed the power of wreaking frightful harm under various innocent guises . 
The westerly hill was lower than its companion , and was quite bare of vegetation except for a single mimosa tree which grew just a little below its summit . 
These two hills , the man assured her , could be seen for some distance before she reached them , and together formed an excellent guide to her destination . 
The warrior even went to Momaya's husband , who , in turn , having little authority over the vixenish lady of his choice , went to Mbonga , the chief . 
The latter summoned Momaya , threatening her with the direst punishment should she venture forth upon so unholy an excursion . 
The old chief's interest in the matter was due solely to that age old alliance which exists between church and state . 
The local witch doctor , knowing his own medicine better than any other knew it , was jealous of all other pretenders to accomplishments in the black art . 
Yet she appeared to accede to his injunctions , returning to her hut in silence . 
So Momaya bided her time until night , and just before the gates of the village were closed , she slipped through into the darkness and the jungle . 
All about Momaya grew the giant trees of the tropical jungle , festooned with hanging vines and mosses . 
She seized upon the nearest and started to clamber , apelike , to the branches above . 
Momaya drew herself to safety among the leafy branches and thanked the foresight which had prompted her to bring along the dried human ear which hung from a cord about her neck . 
She always had known that that ear was good medicine . 
It had been given her , when a girl , by the witch doctor of her town tribe , and was nothing like the poor , weak medicine of Mbonga's witch doctor . 
Little Go bu balu gave evidences of a greater interest in life , an interest which varied in direct proportion to the distance he was from the apes of Kerchak . 
He now trotted along behind Tarzan when the ape man went upon the ground , and in the trees he even did his best to follow his mighty foster parent . 
The boy was still sad and lonely . 
His large eyes were very large indeed now , his cheeks sunken , and every rib of his emaciated body plainly discernible to whomsoever should care to count them . 
Constant terror , perhaps , had had as much to do with his physical condition as had improper food . 
Tarzan noticed the change and was worried . 
He had hoped to see his balu wax sturdy and strong . 
In only one respect did Go bu balu seem to progress he readily was mastering the language of the apes . 
His great sorrow was yet too new and too poignant to be laid aside even momentarily . 
As the two hunted , or rather as Tarzan hunted and Go bu balu tagged along in his wake , the ape man noticed many things and thought much . 
Once they came upon Sabor moaning in the tall grasses . 
Tarzan read aright the anguish and the suffering of the huge mother cat . 
He had been minded to bait her . 
With the acquisition of Go bu balu , Tarzan had come to realize the responsibilities and sorrows of parentage , without its joys . 
His heart went out to Sabor as it might not have done a few weeks before . 
Tarzan saw not her unloveliness he saw only the same anguish that was Sabor's , and he winced . 
That strange functioning of the mind which sometimes is called association of ideas snapped Teeka and Gazan before the ape man's mental vision . 
What if one should come and take Gazan from Teeka . 
Tarzan uttered a low and ominous growl as though Gazan were his own . 
Go bu balu glanced here and there apprehensively , thinking that Tarzan had espied an enemy . 
Sabor sprang suddenly to her feet , her yellow green eyes blazing , her tail lashing as she cocked her ears , and raising her muzzle , sniffed the air for possible danger . 
It was noon of the third day when Momaya came within sight of the cave of Bukawai , the unclean . 
The old witch doctor had rigged a framework of interlaced boughs to close the mouth of the cave from predatory beasts . 
This was now set to one side , and the black cavern beyond yawned mysterious and repellent . 
Momaya shivered as from a cold wind of the rainy season . 
No sign of life appeared about the cave , yet Momaya experienced that uncanny sensation as of unseen eyes regarding her malevolently . 
With a stifled scream , Momaya turned and fled into the jungle . 
For a hundred yards she ran before she could control her terror , and then she paused , listening . 
Saddened , disheartened , she turned slowly upon the back trail toward the village of Mbonga . 
The spring of youth was gone from Momaya . 
She shook her savage head , and she turned about and walked boldly back to the mouth of the cave of Bukawai , the unclean of Bukawai , the witch doctor . 
Again , from the interior of the cave came the hideous laughter that was not laughter . 
This time Momaya recognized it for what it was , the strange cry of a hyena . 
No more did she shudder , but she held her spear ready and called aloud to Bukawai to come out . 
Instead of Bukawai came the repulsive head of a hyena . 
Momaya poked at it with her spear , and the ugly , sullen brute drew back with an angry growl . 
Again Momaya called Bukawai by name , and this time there came an answer in mumbling tones that were scarce more human than those of the beast . 
Who comes to Bukawai ? queried the voice . 
It is Momaya , replied the woman Momaya from the village of Mbonga , the chief . 
What do you want ? I want good medicine , better medicine than Mbonga's witch doctor can make , replied Momaya . 
Who is Tibo ? asked Bukawai . 
Bukawai's medicine is very strong , said the voice . 
Five goats and a new sleeping mat are scarce enough in exchange for Bukawai's medicine . 
Two goats are enough , said Momaya , for the spirit of barter is strong in the breasts of the blacks . 
The pleasure of haggling over the price was a sufficiently potent lure to draw Bukawai to the mouth of the cave . 
Momaya was sorry when she saw him that he had not remained within . 
There are some things too horrible , too hideous , too repulsive for description Bukawai's face was of these . 
When Momaya saw him she understood why it was that he was almost inarticulate . 
Beside him were two hyenas , which rumor had said were his only and constant companions . 
They made an excellent trio the most repulsive of beasts with the most repulsive of humans . 
Five goats and a new sleeping mat , mumbled Bukawai . 
Two fat goats and a sleeping mat . 
Momaya raised her bid but Bukawai was obdurate . 
He stuck for the five goats and the sleeping mat for a matter of half an hour , while the hyenas sniffed and growled and laughed hideously . 
Come back tonight , said Bukawai , when the moon is two hours in the sky . 
Then will I make the strong medicine which shall bring Tibo back to you . 
Bring with you the three fat goats , the new sleeping mat , and the piece of copper wire the length of a large man's forearm . 
I cannot bring them , said Momaya . 
You will have to come after them . 
When you have restored Tibo to me , you shall have them all at the village of Mbonga . 
I will make no medicine , he said , until I have the goats and the mat and the copper wire . 
Momaya pleaded and threatened , but all to no avail . 
Finally , she turned away and started off through the jungle toward the village of Mbonga . 
Tibo must be restored to her . 
Tarzan coming lazily through the jungle with little Go bu balu , caught the scent of Bara , the deer . 
Tarzan hungered for the flesh of Bara . 
Tibo alone was more terrified than Tibo even among the apes . 
Real and apparent dangers are less disconcerting than those which we imagine , and only the gods of his people knew how much Tibo imagined . 
He had been but a short time in his hiding place when he heard something approaching through the jungle . 
He crouched closer to the limb upon which he lay and prayed that Tarzan would return quickly . 
His wide eyes searched the jungle in the direction of the moving creature . 
What if it was a leopard that had caught his scent ! It would be upon him in a minute . 
Hot tears flowed from the large eyes of little Tibo . 
The curtain of jungle foliage rustled close at hand . 
And then the curtain parted and a woman stepped into full view . 
With a gasping cry , Tibo tumbled from his perch and raced toward her . 
Momaya suddenly started back and raised her spear , but a second later she cast it aside and caught the thin body in her strong arms . 
Disturbed by the noise so close at hand , there arose from his sleep in a near by thicket Numa , the lion . 
He looked through the tangled underbrush and saw the black woman and her young . 
He licked his chops and measured the distance between them and himself . 
A short charge and a long leap would carry him upon them . 
He flicked the end of his tail and sighed . 
A vagrant breeze , swirling suddenly in the wrong direction , carried the scent of Tarzan to the sensitive nostrils of Bara , the deer . 
There was a startled tensing of muscles and cocking of ears , a sudden dash , and Tarzan's meat was gone . 
The ape man angrily shook his head and turned back toward the spot where he had left Go bu balu . 
He came softly , as was his way . 
Tarzan hastened , and when Tarzan hastened , only the birds and the wind went faster . 
And as Tarzan approached the sounds , he heard another , a deep sigh . 
Momaya did not hear it , nor did Tibo but the ears of Tarzan were as the ears of Bara , the deer . 
He heard the sigh , and he knew , so he unloosed the heavy spear which dangled at his back . 
Numa , the lion , did not rush madly to attack . 
Momaya saw him and shrieked , drawing Tibo closer to her breast . 
To have found her child and to lose him , all in a moment ! She raised her spear , throwing her hand far back of her shoulder . 
Numa roared and stepped slowly forward . 
It grazed the tawny shoulder , inflicting a flesh wound which aroused all the terrific bestiality of the carnivore , and the lion charged . 
Momaya tried to close her eyes , but could not . 
She saw the flashing swiftness of the huge , oncoming death , and then she saw something else . 
She saw a mighty , naked white man drop as from the heavens into the path of the charging lion . 
She saw the muscles of a great arm flash in the light of the equatorial sun as it filtered , dappling , through the foliage above . 
She saw a heavy hunting spear hurtle through the air to meet the lion in midleap . 
Numa brought up upon his haunches , roaring terribly and striking at the spear which protruded from his breast . 
His great blows bent and twisted the weapon . 
Tarzan , crouching and with hunting knife in hand , circled warily about the frenzied cat . 
Momaya , wide eyed , stood rooted to the spot , watching , fascinated . 
In sudden fury Numa hurled himself toward the ape man , but the wiry creature eluded the blundering charge , side stepping quickly only to rush in upon his foe . 
Twice the hunting blade flashed in the air . 
Twice it fell upon the back of Numa , already weakening from the spear point so near his heart . 
The witch doctor came upon the scene as Tarzan leaped to meet the lion's charge . 
He saw it all and marveled , guessing immediately that this must be the strange white demon concerning whom he had heard vague rumors before Momaya came to him . 
Momaya , now that the lion was past harming her or hers , gazed with new terror upon Tarzan . 
It was he who had stolen her Tibo . 
Doubtless he would attempt to steal him again . 
Momaya hugged the boy close to her . 
She was determined to die this time rather than suffer Tibo to be taken from her again . 
Tarzan eyed them in silence . 
The sight of the boy clinging , sobbing , to his mother aroused within his savage breast a melancholy loneliness . 
There was none thus to cling to Tarzan , who yearned so for the love of someone , of something . 
At last Tibo looked up , because of the quiet that had fallen upon the jungle , and saw Tarzan . 
Tarzan , he said , in the speech of the great apes of the tribe of Kerchak , do not take me from Momaya , my mother . 
Do not take me again to the lair of the hairy , tree men , for I fear Taug and Gunto and the others . 
Go , he said , back to the village of Mbonga , and Tarzan will follow to see that no harm befalls you . 
Tibo translated the words to his mother , and the two turned their backs upon the ape man and started off toward home . 
In the heart of Momaya was a great fear and a great exultation , for never before had she walked with God , and never had she been so happy . 
She strained little Tibo to her , stroking his thin cheek . 
Tarzan saw and sighed again . 
Tarzan of the Apes is a man , and it must be that man walks alone . 
The Witch Doctor Seeks Vengeance LORD GREYSTOKE was hunting , or , to be more accurate , he was shooting pheasants at Chamston Hedding . 
Lord Greystoke was immaculately and appropriately garbed to the minutest detail he was vogue . 
To be sure , he was among the forward guns , not being considered a sporting shot , but what he lacked in skill he more than made up in appearance . 
Lord Greystoke was quite as excited as he ever permitted himself to become . 
There was an exhilaration in the sport that would not be denied . 
He felt his blood tingling through his veins as the beaters approached closer and closer to the birds . 
And far away in a matted equatorial jungle another Lord Greystoke , the real Lord Greystoke , hunted . 
By the standards which he knew , he , too , was vogue utterly vogue , as was the primal ancestor before the first eviction . 
The day being sultry , the leopard skin had been left behind . 
Later that day , in England , a Lord Greystoke ate bountifully of things he had not killed , and he drank other things which were uncorked to the accompaniment of much noise . 
He was not using snowy linen , though . 
Instead he drew the back of a brown forearm and hand across his mouth and wiped his bloody fingers upon his thighs . 
Then he moved slowly through the jungle to the drinking place , where , upon all fours , he drank as drank his fellows , the other beasts of the jungle . 
As he quenched his thirst , another denizen of the gloomy forest approached the stream along the path behind him . 
It was Numa , the lion , tawny of body and black of mane , scowling and sinister , rumbling out low , coughing roars . 
Numa halted as he saw the man standing at the very spot where the king would drink . 
His jaws were parted , and his cruel eyes gleamed . 
He growled and advanced slowly . 
The man growled , too , backing slowly to one side , and watching , not the lion's face , but its tail . 
Tomorrow they might be at one another's throats , but today there existed one of those strange and inexplicable truces which so often are seen among the savage ones of the jungle . 
Before Numa had finished drinking , Tarzan had returned into the forest , and was swinging away in the direction of the village of Mbonga , the black chief . 
It had been at least a moon since the ape man had called upon the Gomangani . 
Not since he had restored little Tibo to his grief stricken mother had the whim seized him to do so . 
The incident of the adopted balu was a closed one to Tarzan . 
The Gomangani were his deadly enemies , nor could they ever be aught else . 
Today he looked forward to some slight relief from the monotony of his existence in such excitement as he might derive from baiting the blacks . 
It was not yet dark when he reached the village and took his place in the great tree overhanging the palisade . 
From beneath came a great wailing out of the depths of a near by hut . 
The noise fell disagreeably upon Tarzan's ears it jarred and grated . 
With the intention of putting a violent termination to the annoying sound , Tarzan slipped silently from the tree into the shadows beneath . 
Creeping stealthily and keeping well in the cover of other huts , he approached that from which rose the sounds of lamentation . 
A fire burned brightly before the doorway as it did before other doorways in the village . 
A few females squatted about , occasionally adding their own mournful howlings to those of the master artist within . 
Then he would dart into the hut during the excitement , throttle the chief screamer , and be gone into the jungle before the blacks could gather their scattered nerves for an assault . 
Many times had Tarzan behaved similarly in the village of Mbonga , the chief . 
It was this terror which lent to the adventures the spice of interest and amusement which the human mind of the ape man craved . 
Merely to kill was not in itself sufficient . 
Accustomed to the sight of death , Tarzan found no great pleasure in it . 
Of this he never tired . 
It was just as he was about to spring forward with a savage roar that a figure appeared in the doorway of the hut . 
A sudden flare of the fire threw the grotesque figure into high relief , and Tarzan recognized her as Momaya , the mother of Tibo . 
The fire also threw out a fitful flame which carried to the shadows where Tarzan lurked , picking out his light brown body from the surrounding darkness . 
Momaya saw him and knew him . 
With a cry , she leaped forward and Tarzan came to meet her . 
The other women , turning , saw him , too but they did not come toward him . 
Instead they rose as one , shrieked as one , fled as one . 
Momaya threw herself at Tarzan's feet , raising supplicating hands toward him and pouring forth from her mutilated lips a perfect cataract of words , not one of which the ape man comprehended . 
For a moment he looked down upon the upturned , frightful face of the woman . 
He had come to slay , but that overwhelming torrent of speech filled him with consternation and with awe . 
He glanced about him apprehensively , then back at the woman . 
A revulsion of feeling seized him . 
He could not kill little Tibo's mother , nor could he stand and face this verbal geyser . 
With a quick gesture of impatience at the spoiling of his evening's entertainment , he wheeled and leaped away into the darkness . 
A moment later he was swinging through the black jungle night , the cries and lamentations of Momaya growing fainter in the distance . 
As Tarzan followed the fresh spoor of Horta , the boar , the following morning , he came upon the tracks of two Gomangani , a large one and a small one . 
The ape man , accustomed as he was to questioning closely all that fell to his perceptions , paused to read the story written in the soft mud of the game trail . 
You or I would have seen little of interest there , even if , by chance , we could have seen aught . 
To Tarzan each told its own story . 
Tantor , the elephant , had passed that way as recently as three suns since . 
It told him that the day before an old man had gone toward the north in company with a little boy , and that with them had been two hyenas . 
Tarzan scratched his head in puzzled incredulity . 
Then Tarzan read in the spoor of the smaller Gomangani a shrinking terror of the beast that brushed his side , but in that of the old man was no sign of fear . 
It was as though , finding a letter in the road , you suddenly had discovered in it the familiar handwriting of a friend . 
Instantly all was explained the wailing and lamentation , the pleading of the black mother , the sympathetic howling of the shes about the fire . 
Little Go bu balu had been stolen again , and this time by another than Tarzan . 
Doubtless the mother had thought that he was again in the power of Tarzan of the Apes , and she had been beseeching him to return her balu to her . 
Yes , it was all quite plain now but who could have stolen Go bu balu this time ? Tarzan wondered , and he wondered , too , about the presence of Dango . 
The spoor was a day old and it ran toward the north . 
Tarzan set out to follow it . 
It had all happened to little Tibo very suddenly and unexpectedly within the brief span of two suns . 
First had come Bukawai , the witch doctor Bukawai , the unclean with the ragged bit of flesh which still clung to his rotting face . 
He had come alone and by day to the place at the river where Momaya went daily to wash her body and that of Tibo , her little boy . 
He had stepped out from behind a great bush quite close to Momaya , frightening little Tibo so that he ran screaming to his mother's protecting arms . 
But Momaya , though startled , had wheeled to face the fearsome thing with all the savage ferocity of a she tiger at bay . 
When she saw who it was , she breathed a sigh of partial relief , though she still clung tightly to Tibo . 
I have come , said Bukawai without preliminary , for the three fat goats , the new sleeping mat , and the bit of copper wire as long as a tall man's arm . 
I have no goats for you , snapped Momaya , nor a sleeping mat , nor any wire . 
Your medicine was never made . 
The white jungle god gave me back my Tibo . 
You had nothing to do with it . 
But I did , mumbled Bukawai through his fleshless jaws . 
It was I who commanded the white jungle god to give back your Tibo . 
Momaya laughed in his face . 
Speaker of lies , she cried , go back to your foul den and your hyenas . 
Go back and hide your stinking face in the belly of the mountain , lest the sun , seeing it , cover his face with a black cloud . 
It was to be the length of a man's forearm , corrected Momaya , but you shall have nothing , old thief . 
His medicine is true medicine yours is the weak medicine of an old man with a hole in his face . 
I have come , repeated Bukawai patiently , for the three fat But Momaya had not waited to hear more of what she already knew by heart . 
Clasping Tibo close to her side , she was hurrying away toward the palisaded village of Mbonga , the chief . 
Tibo had seen a squirrel scampering up the bole of a great tree . 
His childish mind had transformed it into the menacing figure of a hostile warrior . 
But when he cast the spear , he missed both squirrel and tree , losing his missile far among the tangled undergrowth of the jungle . 
However , it could be but a few steps within the forbidden labyrinth . 
The women were all about in the field . 
There were warriors on guard within easy hail , and so little Tibo boldly ventured into the dark place . 
And beside him , equally hideous , stood two powerful hyenas carrion eaters consorting with carrion . 
Tibo did not see them until , head down , he had forced his way through the thickly growing vines in search of his little spear , and then it was too late . 
As he looked up into the face of Bukawai , the old witch doctor seized him , muffling his screams with a palm across his mouth . 
Terror stricken he had been then , but his surroundings had been nothing by comparison with those which he now endured . 
The old man seldom addressed Tibo , though he kept up an almost continuous mumbling throughout the long day . 
Tibo caught repeated references to fat goats , sleeping mats , and pieces of copper wire . 
Ten fat goats , ten fat goats , the old Negro would croon over and over again . 
By this little Tibo guessed that the price of his ransom had risen . 
Ten fat goats ! Tibo sniffled . 
The putrid old man would kill him and eat him , for the goats would never be forthcoming . 
Bukawai would throw his bones to the hyenas . 
The little black boy shuddered and became so weak that he almost fell in his tracks . 
Bukawai cuffed him on an ear and jerked him along . 
After what seemed an eternity to Tibo , they arrived at the mouth of a cave between two rocky hills . 
The opening was low and narrow . 
A few saplings bound together with strips of rawhide closed it against stray beasts . 
Bukawai removed the primitive door and pushed Tibo within . 
The hyenas , snarling , rushed past him and were lost to view in the blackness of the interior . 
Bukawai replaced the saplings and seizing Tibo roughly by the arm , dragged him along a narrow , rocky passage . 
The floor was comparatively smooth , for the dirt which lay thick upon it had been trodden and tramped by many feet until few inequalities remained . 
The passage was tortuous , and as it was very dark and the walls rough and rocky , Tibo was scratched and bruised from the many bumps he received . 
Bukawai walked as rapidly through the winding gallery as one would traverse a familiar lane by daylight . 
He knew every twist and turn as a mother knows the face of her child , and he seemed to be in a hurry . 
Nature had given him few of the kindlier characteristics of man , and these few Fate had eradicated entirely . 
Shrewd , cunning , cruel , vindictive , was Bukawai , the witch doctor . 
Frightful tales were whispered of the cruel tortures he inflicted upon his victims . 
Children were frightened into obedience by the threat of his name . 
Often had Tibo been thus frightened , and now he was reaping a grisly harvest of terror from the seeds his mother had innocently sown . 
He stumbled and reeled until Bukawai was dragging rather than leading him . 
The hyenas were there ahead of them , waiting . 
As Bukawai entered with Tibo , the beasts slunk toward them , baring yellow fangs . 
Toward Tibo they came , and one snapped at his naked legs . 
Bukawai seized a stick from the floor of the chamber and struck a vicious blow at the beast , at the same time mumbling forth a volley of execrations . 
The hyena dodged and ran to the side of the chamber , where he stood growling . 
Bukawai took a step toward the creature , which bristled with rage at his approach . 
Fear and hatred shot from its evil eyes , but , fortunately for Bukawai , fear predominated . 
Seeing that he was unnoticed , the second beast made a short , quick rush for Tibo . 
The child screamed and darted after the witch doctor , who now turned his attention to the second hyena . 
This one he reached with his heavy stick , striking it repeatedly and driving it to the wall . 
At last the witch doctor tired of the futile chase . 
With a snarl quite as bestial as those of the beast , he turned toward Tibo . 
There , and he pointed toward the passage which they had followed to the chamber , I will leave the hyenas . 
If you try to escape , they will eat you . 
He cast aside the stick and called to the beasts . 
They came , snarling and slinking , their tails between their legs . 
Bukawai led them to the passage and drove them into it . 
Then he dragged a rude lattice into place before the opening after he , himself , had left the chamber . 
This will keep them from you , he said . 
If I do not get the ten fat goats and the other things , they shall at least have a few bones after I am through . 
And he left the boy to think over the meaning of his all too suggestive words . 
When he was gone , Tibo threw himself upon the earth floor and broke into childish sobs of terror and loneliness . 
He knew that his mother had no ten fat goats to give and that when Bukawai returned , little Tibo would be killed and eaten . 
How long he lay there he did not know , but presently he was aroused by the growling of the hyenas . 
They had returned through the passage and were glaring at him from beyond the lattice . 
He could see their yellow eyes blazing through the darkness . 
They reared up and clawed at the barrier . 
Tibo shivered and withdrew to the opposite side of the chamber . 
He saw the lattice sag and sway to the attacks of the beasts . 
Momentarily he expected that it would fall inward , letting the creatures upon him . 
Wearily the horror ridden hours dragged their slow way . 
Night came , and for a time Tibo slept , but it seemed that the hungry beasts never slept . 
Always they stood just beyond the lattice growling their hideous growls or laughing their hideous laughs . 
Through the narrow rift in the rocky roof above him , Tibo could see a few stars , and once the moon crossed . 
At last daylight came again . 
It was after daylight that the child discovered a second opening in the walls of the subterranean chamber , almost opposite that at which the hyenas still stood glaring hungrily at him . 
It was only a narrow slit in the rocky wall . 
It might lead in but a few feet , or it might lead to freedom ! Tibo approached it and looked within . 
He extended his arm into the blackness , but he dared not venture farther . 
Bukawai never would have left open a way of escape , Tibo reasoned , so this passage must lead either nowhere or to some still more hideous danger . 
And so it was that little Tibo cringed not only from real menaces but from imaginary ones . 
He was afraid even to venture upon a road that might lead to escape , lest Bukawai had set to watch it some frightful demon of the jungle . 
Rearing upon their hind feet they clawed and struck at the lattice . 
With wide eyes Tibo saw it sag and rock . 
Not for long , he knew , could it withstand the assaults of these two powerful and determined brutes . 
Already one corner had been forced past the rocky protuberance of the entrance way which had held it in place . 
A shaggy forearm protruded into the chamber . 
Tibo trembled as with ague , for he knew that the end was near . 
Backing against the farther wall he stood flattened out as far from the beasts as he could get . 
He saw the lattice give still more . 
He saw a savage , snarling head forced past it , and grinning jaws snapping and gaping toward him . 
Bukawai came upon Momaya outside the palisade of Mbonga , the chief . 
At sight of him the woman drew back in revulsion , then she flew at him , tooth and nail but Bukawai threatening her with a spear held her at a safe distance . 
Where is my baby ? she cried . 
Where is my little Tibo ? Bukawai opened his eyes in well simulated amazement . 
Your baby ! he exclaimed . 
What should I know of him , other than that I rescued him from the white god of the jungle and have not yet received my pay . 
I come for the goats and the sleeping mat and the piece of copper wire the length of a tall man's arm from the shoulder to the tips of his fingers . 
Offal of a hyena ! shrieked Momaya . 
My child has been stolen , and you , rotting fragment of a man , have taken him . 
Return him to me or I shall tear your eyes from your head and feed your heart to the wild hogs . 
What do I know about your child ? he asked . 
I have not taken him . 
It is nothing to me . 
I returned him to you before and I have come for my pay . 
Ten fat goats ! screamed Momaya . 
I could not pay you ten fat goats in as many years . 
Ten fat goats , indeed ! Ten fat goats , repeated Bukawai . 
Ten fat goats , the new sleeping mat and two pieces of copper wire the length of Momaya stopped him with an impatient gesture . 
Stay here while I go to my man . 
He has but three goats , yet something may be done . 
Wait ! Bukawai sat down beneath a tree . 
He felt quite content , for he knew that he should have either payment or revenge . 
He did not fear harm at the hands of these people of another tribe , although he well knew that they must fear and hate him . 
His leprosy alone would prevent their laying hands upon him , while his reputation as a witch doctor rendered him doubly immune from attack . 
He was planning upon compelling them to drive the ten goats to the mouth of his cave when Momaya returned . 
With her were three warriors Mbonga , the chief , Rabba Kega , the village witch doctor , and Ibeto , Tibo's father . 
Instead he greeted them with an insolent stare , intended to awe them , as they came and squatted in a semi circle before him . 
Where is Ibeto's son ? asked Mbonga . 
How should I know ? returned Bukawai . 
Doubtless the white devil god has him . 
If I am paid I will make strong medicine and then we shall know where is Ibeto's son , and shall get him back again . 
It was my medicine which got him back the last time , for which I got no pay . 
I have my own witch doctor to make medicine , replied Mbonga with dignity . 
Bukawai sneered and rose to his feet . 
Very well , he said , let him make his medicine and see if he can bring Ibeto's son back . 
He took a few steps away from them , and then he turned angrily back . 
This have I just found out , the ghost of my father's sister but now came to me and told me . 
Let us see some of your magic , that we may know if it be good magic . 
Then we can talk about payment . 
Rabba Kega will make some magic , too . 
We will see who makes the best magic . 
Then will I make the medicine , and on the second day the boy will be returned to his mother . 
It cannot be done more quickly than that because it takes time to make such strong medicine . 
Make us some medicine now , said Mbonga . 
Let us see what sort of medicine you make . 
Bring me fire , replied Bukawai , and I will make you a little magic . 
Momaya was dispatched for the fire , and while she was away Mbonga dickered with Bukawai about the price . 
Ten goats , he said , was a high price for an able bodied warrior . 
His medicine was very expensive and he would have to give at least five goats to the gods who helped him make it . 
They were still arguing when Momaya returned with the fire . 
Bukawai placed a little on the ground before him , took a pinch of powder from a pouch at his side and sprinkled it on the embers . 
A cloud of smoke rose with a puff . 
Bukawai closed his eyes and rocked back and forth . 
Then he made a few passes in the air and pretended to swoon . 
Mbonga and the others were much impressed . 
He saw his reputation waning . 
There was some fire left in the vessel which Momaya had brought . 
He seized the vessel , dropped a handful of dry leaves into it while no one was watching and then uttered a frightful scream which drew the attention of Bukawai's audience to him . 
Rabba Kega was careful to hold it so that none might see the dry leaves . 
Their eyes opened wide at this remarkable demonstration of the village witch doctor's powers . 
The latter , greatly elated , let himself out . 
He shouted , jumped up and down , and made frightful grimaces then he put his face close over the mouth of the vessel and appeared to be communing with the spirits within . 
It was while he was thus engaged that Bukawai came out of his trance , his curiosity finally having gotten the better of him . 
No one was paying him the slightest attention . 
I see him ! he cried . 
The white devil god did not get him . 
He is alone and in great danger but , he added , if the ten fat goats and the other things are paid to me quickly there is yet time to save him . 
Rabba Kega had paused to listen . 
The chief was in a quandary . 
He did not know which medicine was the better . 
What does your magic tell you ? he asked of Rabba Kega . 
I , too , see him , screamed Rabba Kega but he is not where Bukawai says he is . 
He is dead at the bottom of the river . 
At this Momaya commenced to howl loudly . 
Tarzan had followed the spoor of the old man , the two hyenas , and the little black boy to the mouth of the cave in the rocky canon between the two hills . 
Here he paused a moment before the sapling barrier which Bukawai had set up , listening to the snarls and growls which came faintly from the far recesses of the cavern . 
Presently , mingled with the beastly cries , there came faintly to the keen ears of the ape man , the agonized moan of a child . 
No longer did Tarzan hesitate . 
Hurling the door aside , he sprang into the dark opening . 
He moved rapidly and yet with caution , for the place was dark , unfamiliar and winding . 
As he advanced , he heard more and more loudly the savage snarls of the two hyenas , mingled with the scraping and scratching of their paws upon wood . 
The moans of a child grew in volume , and Tarzan recognized in them the voice of the little black boy he once had sought to adopt as his balu . 
There was no hysteria in the ape man's advance . 
Too accustomed was he to the passing of life in the jungle to be greatly wrought even by the death of one whom he knew but the lust for battle spurred him on . 
He was only a wild beast at heart and his wild beast's heart beat high in anticipation of conflict . 
In the rocky chamber of the hill's center , little Tibo crouched low against the wall as far from the hunger crazed beasts as he could drag himself . 
He saw the lattice giving to the frantic clawing of the hyenas . 
He knew that in a few minutes his little life would flicker out horribly beneath the rending , yellow fangs of these loathsome creatures . 
Beneath the buffetings of the powerful bodies , the lattice sagged inward , until , with a crash it gave way , letting the carnivora in upon the boy . 
Tibo cast one affrighted glance toward them , then closed his eyes and buried his face in his arms , sobbing piteously . 
For a moment the hyenas paused , caution and cowardice holding them from their prey . 
They stood thus glaring at the lad , then slowly , stealthily , crouching , they crept toward him . 
It was thus that Tarzan came upon them , bursting into the chamber swiftly and silently but not so silently that the keen eared beasts did not note his coming . 
With angry growls they turned from Tibo upon the ape man , as , with a smile upon his lips , he ran toward them . 
For an instant one of the animals stood its ground but the ape man did not deign even to draw his hunting knife against despised Dango . 
He is not dead at the bottom of the river , cried Bukawai . 
What does this fellow know about making magic ? Who is he , anyway , that he dare say Bukawai's magic is not good magic ? Bukawai sees Momaya's son . 
He is far away and alone and in great danger . 
Hasten then with the ten fat goats , the But he got no further . 
And then Tarzan dropped fearlessly among them , the boy still upon his back , and deposited him before his mother . 
Momaya , Ibeto , Rabba Kega , and Mbonga were all crowding around the lad trying to question him at the same time . 
Tarzan , too , had vanished , as he had a way of doing , to the mystification of the blacks . 
Then Momaya's eyes lighted upon Rabba Kega . 
The village witch doctor saw something in those eyes of hers which boded no good to him , and backed away . 
So my Tibo is dead at the bottom of the river , is he ? the woman shrieked . 
Magic , indeed ! she screamed . 
Momaya will show you some magic of her own , and with that she seized upon a broken limb and struck Rabba Kega across the head . 
Young Lord Greystoke did not know that they planned against him , nor , knowing , would have cared . 
The End of Bukawai WHEN TARZAN OF the Apes was still but a boy he had learned , among other things , to fashion pliant ropes of fibrous jungle grass . 
Strong and tough were the ropes of Tarzan , the little Tarmangani . 
Tublat , his foster father , would have told you this much and more . 
Then there had been another occasion in which the rope had figured prominently an occasion , and the only one connected with the rope , which Tublat recalled with pleasure . 
Tarzan , as active in brain as he was in body , was always inventing new ways in which to play . 
It was through the medium of play that he learned much during his childhood . 
The man child had , in throwing his noose at a playmate in a tree above him , caught a projecting branch instead . 
When he tried to shake it loose it but drew the tighter . 
Then Tarzan started to climb the rope to remove it from the branch . 
When he was part way up a frolicsome playmate seized that part of the rope which lay upon the ground and ran off with it as far as he could go . 
When Tarzan screamed at him to desist , the young ape released the rope a little and then drew it tight again . 
The result was to impart a swinging motion to Tarzan's body which the ape boy suddenly realized was a new and pleasurable form of play . 
So he clambered to the branch where the noose was caught and after removing it carried the rope far aloft and out upon a long and powerful branch . 
Ah , how delectable ! This was indeed a new play of the first magnitude . 
Presently he was swinging far and wide , while below him , the apes of the tribe of Kerchak looked on in mild amaze . 
At any rate he felt no fatigue long after the time that an ordinary mortal would have been numb with the strain of the physical exertion . 
And this was his undoing . 
Tublat was watching him as were others of the tribe . 
Of all the creatures of the wild , there was none Tublat so cordially hated as he did this hideous , hairless , white skinned , caricature of an ape . 
But for Tarzan's nimbleness , and the zealous watchfulness of savage Kala's mother love , Tublat would long since have rid himself of this stain upon his family escutcheon . 
The watching apes saw the smooth , brown body shoot outward , and down , plummet like . 
Tublat leaped high in the air , emitting what in a human being would have been an exclamation of delight . 
This would be the end of Tarzan and most of Tublat's troubles . 
From now on he could lead his life in peace and security . 
Tarzan fell quite forty feet , alighting on his back in a thick bush . 
Kala was the first to reach his side ferocious , hideous , loving Kala . 
She had seen the life crushed from her own balu in just such a fall years before . 
Was she to lose this one too in the same way ? Tarzan was lying quite still when she found him , embedded deeply in the bush . 
It took Kala several minutes to disentangle him and drag him forth but he was not killed . 
He was not even badly injured . 
The bush had broken the force of the fall . 
A cut upon the back of his head showed where he had struck the tough stem of the shrub and explained his unconsciousness . 
In a few minutes he was as active as ever . 
But Tarzan had learned something new . 
The day came , however , when the very thing that had once all but killed him proved the means of saving his life . 
He was no longer a child , but a mighty jungle male . 
There was none now to watch over him , solicitously , nor did he need such . 
In Tarzan it was a trifle broad , perhaps , manifesting itself in rough and painful practical jokes upon his friends and cruel baiting of his enemies . 
Bukawai was jealous of Tarzan , and Bukawai it was who came near proving the undoing of the ape man . 
For months Bukawai had nursed his hatred while revenge seemed remote indeed , since Tarzan of the Apes frequented another part of the jungle , miles away from the lair of Bukawai . 
All this Bukawai never could forgive , though it seemed unlikely that the opportunity would come to be revenged . 
Yet it did come , and quite unexpectedly . 
Tarzan was hunting far to the north . 
He had wandered away from the tribe , as he did more and more often as he approached maturity , to hunt alone for a few days . 
So Tarzan found in his own man mind a greater and a truer companionship than any or all of the apes of Kerchak could afford him . 
This day , as Tarzan hunted , the sky slowly became overcast . 
Torn clouds , whipped to ragged streamers , fled low above the tree tops . 
They reminded Tarzan of frightened antelope fleeing the charge of a hungry lion . 
But though the light clouds raced so swiftly , the jungle was motionless . 
Not a leaf quivered and the silence was a great , dead weight insupportable . 
Even the insects seemed stilled by apprehension of some frightful thing impending , and the larger things were soundless . 
And over all lay a sickly , pallid ocher light through which the scourged clouds raced . 
Tarzan had seen all these conditions many times before , yet he never could escape a strange feeling at each recurrence of them . 
He knew no fear , but in the face of Nature's manifestations of her cruel , immeasurable powers , he felt very small very small and very lonely . 
Now he heard a low moaning , far away . 
The lions seek their prey , he murmured to himself , looking up once again at the swift flying clouds . 
The moaning rose to a great volume of sound . 
They come ! said Tarzan of the Apes , and sought the shelter of a thickly foliaged tree . 
Quite suddenly the trees bent their tops simultaneously as though God had stretched a hand from the heavens and pressed His flat palm down upon the world . 
They pass ! whispered Tarzan . 
Then came a vivid flash of lightning , followed by deafening thunder . 
The lions have sprung , cried Tarzan , and now they roar above the bodies of their kills . 
The trees were waving wildly in all directions now , a perfectly demoniacal wind threshed the jungle pitilessly . 
In the midst of it the rain came not as it comes upon us of the northlands , but in a sudden , choking , blinding deluge . 
The blood of the kill , thought Tarzan , huddling himself closer to the bole of the great tree beneath which he stood . 
He was close to the edge of the jungle , and at a little distance he had seen two hills before the storm broke but now he could see nothing . 
All about him branches and leaves filled the air or fell to earth , torn away by the strength of the tornado and the weight of the water upon them . 
Here there was but a single danger , and that a remote one . 
Bukawai came to the entrance of his cave after the rain and the storm had passed and looked out upon the scene . 
At either side of the leper stood his sole and constant companions , the two hyenas , sniffing the air . 
Presently one of them uttered a low growl and with flattened head started , sneaking and wary , toward the jungle . 
Bukawai , his curiosity aroused , trailed after them , in his hand a heavy knob stick . 
The hyenas halted a few yards from the prostrate Tarzan , sniffing and growling . 
The hyenas approached the ape man with bared fangs . 
Bukawai , with an inarticulate scream , rushed upon them , striking cruel and heavy blows with his knob stick , for there might still be life in the apparently lifeless form . 
The beasts , snapping and snarling , half turned upon their master and their tormentor , but long fear still held them from his putrid throat . 
They slunk away a few yards and squatted upon their haunches , hatred and baffled hunger gleaming from their savage eyes . 
Bukawai stooped and placed his ear above the ape man's heart . 
As well as his sloughed features could register pleasure they did so but it was not a pretty sight . 
At the ape man's side lay his long , grass rope . 
Through subterranean chambers , connected by winding passageways , Bukawai staggered with his load . 
Steep walls rimmed the cavity . 
The only exit was through the passageway by which Bukawai had entered . 
A few stunted trees grew upon the rocky floor . 
A hundred feet above could be seen the ragged lips of this cold , dead mouth of hell . 
The hyenas slunk to and fro , growling . 
Bukawai hated them and they hated him . 
He knew that they but waited for the time when he should be helpless , or when their hatred should rise to such a height as to submerge their cringing fear of him . 
He had had them since they were puppies . 
They had known no other life than that with him , and though they went abroad to hunt , always they returned . 
Today he would see for himself what his end would be but another should impersonate Bukawai . 
Bukawai returned to the outer cave mouth , filled a vessel with water at the spring which rose in the little canon close at hand and returned toward the pit . 
The hyenas stood before the lattice looking hungrily toward Tarzan . 
They had been fed in this manner before . 
With his water , the witch doctor approached Tarzan and threw a portion of the contents of the vessel in the ape man's face . 
There was fluttering of the eyelids , and at the second application Tarzan opened his eyes and looked about . 
Devil god , cried Bukawai , I am the great witch doctor . 
The hyenas crept up behind him . 
He heard them growl but he did not even turn his head . 
He was a beast with a man's brain . 
The beast in him refused to show fear in the face of a death which the man mind already admitted to be inevitable . 
Bukawai , not yet ready to give his victim to the beasts , rushed upon the hyenas with his knob stick . 
There was a short scrimmage in which the brutes came off second best , as they always did . 
He saw and realized the hatred which existed between the two animals and the hideous semblance of a man . 
With the hyenas subdued , Bukawai returned to the baiting of Tarzan but finding that the ape man understood nothing he said , the witch doctor finally desisted . 
Then he withdrew into the corridor and pulled the latticework barrier across the opening . 
He went back into the cave and got a sleeping mat , which he brought to the opening , that he might lie down and watch the spectacle of his revenge in comfort . 
The hyenas were sneaking furtively around the ape man . 
Tarzan strained at his bonds for a moment , but soon realized that the rope he had braided to hold Numa , the lion , would hold him quite as successfully . 
He did not wish to die but he could look death in the face now as he had many times before without a quaver . 
As he pulled upon the rope he felt it rub against the small tree about which it was passed . 
Like a flash of the cinematograph upon the screen , a picture was flashed before his mind's eye from the storehouse of his memory . 
He saw a lithe , boyish figure swinging high above the ground at the end of a rope . 
He saw many apes watching from below , and then he saw the rope part and the boy hurtle downward toward the ground . 
Immediately he commenced to draw the rope rapidly back and forth across the tree trunk . 
The hyenas , gaining courage , came closer . 
They sniffed at his legs but when he struck at them with his free arms they slunk off . 
He knew that with the growth of hunger they would attack . 
Coolly , methodically , without haste , Tarzan drew the rope back and forth against the rough trunk of the small tree . 
In the entrance to the cavern Bukawai fell asleep . 
He thought it would be some time before the beasts gained sufficient courage or hunger to attack the captive . 
Their growls and the cries of the victim would awaken him . 
In the meantime he might as well rest , and he did . 
Yet , all the while hunger was growing upon the beasts and the strands of the grass rope were wearing thinner and thinner . 
It was late afternoon before one of the beasts , irritated by the gnawing of appetite , made a quick , growling dash at the ape man . 
He sat up quickly and watched what went on within the crater . 
He saw the hungry hyena charge the man , leaping for the unprotected throat . 
He saw Tarzan reach out and seize the growling animal , and then he saw the second beast spring for the devil god's shoulder . 
There was a mighty heave of the great , smooth skinned body . 
Bukawai leaped to his feet . 
With a single hand Tarzan held the one , and with the other hand he reached forth and pulled toward him the second beast . 
And then Bukawai , seeing the battle going against his forces , rushed forward from the cavern brandishing his knob stick . 
Tarzan saw him coming , and rising now to both feet , a hyena in each hand , he hurled one of the foaming beasts straight at the witch doctor's head . 
Down went the two in a snarling , biting heap . 
Tarzan tossed the second hyena across the crater , while the first gnawed at the rotting face of its master but this did not suit the ape man . 
With a kick he sent the beast howling after its companion , and springing to the side of the prostrate witch doctor , dragged him to his feet . 
Bukawai , still conscious , saw death , immediate and terrible , in the cold eyes of his captor , so he turned upon Tarzan with teeth and nails . 
The ape man shuddered at the proximity of that raw face to his . 
The hyenas had had enough and disappeared through the small aperture leading into the cave . 
Tarzan had little difficulty in overpowering and binding Bukawai . 
As he passed through the winding corridors and the subterranean apartments , Tarzan saw nothing of the hyenas . 
They will return , he said to himself . 
In the crater between the towering walls Bukawai , cold with terror , trembled , trembled as with ague . 
They will return ! he cried , his voice rising to a fright filled shriek . 
The Lion NUMA , THE LION , crouched behind a thorn bush close beside the drinking pool where the river eddied just below the bend . 
Numa , the lion , was hungry , he was very hungry , and so he was quite silent now . 
It was a grim , a terrible silence , shot through with yellow green light of ferocious eyes , punctuated with undulating tremors of sinuous tail . 
Behind the black striped stallion came a herd of thirty or forty of the plump and vicious little horselike beasts . 
Numa shifted uneasily , drawing his hind quarters far beneath his tawny body , gathering himself for the sudden charge and the savage assault . 
His eyes shot hungry fire . 
His great muscles quivered to the excitement of the moment . 
Pacco came a little nearer , halted , snorted , and wheeled . 
There was a pattering of scurrying hoofs and the herd was gone but Numa , the lion , moved not . 
He was familiar with the ways of Pacco , the zebra . 
He knew that he would return , though many times he might wheel and fly before he summoned the courage to lead his harem and his offspring to the water . 
There was the chance that Pacco might be frightened off entirely . 
Numa had seen this happen before , and so he became almost rigid lest he be the one to send them galloping , waterless , back to the plain . 
The others , stepping warily , approached their leader . 
Slowly the lion rose , and as he rose , a twig snapped beneath one of his great , padded paws . 
It was an angry Numa that quitted the river and prowled , fierce , dangerous , and hungry , into the jungle . 
Far from particular now was his appetite . 
Even Dango , the hyena , would have seemed a tidbit to that ravenous maw . 
And in this temper it was that the lion came upon the tribe of Kerchak , the great ape . 
One does not look for Numa , the lion , this late in the morning . 
He should be lying up asleep beside his last night's kill by now but Numa had made no kill last night . 
He was still hunting , hungrier than ever . 
The anthropoids were idling about the clearing , the first keen desire of the morning's hunger having been satisfied . 
Numa scented them long before he saw them . 
Without an instant's hesitation , Numa charged the moment he reached a point from where the apes were visible to him . 
There were a dozen or more of the hairy , manlike creatures upon the ground in a little glade . 
In a tree at one side sat a brown skinned youth . 
Tarzan leaped from his perch , screaming at the flying bulls beneath and at those who squatted in the safety of surrounding trees . 
Had the bulls stood their ground , Numa would not have carried through that charge unless goaded by great rage or the gnawing pangs of starvation . 
Even then he would not have come off unscathed . 
Tarzan's angry voice aroused similar anger in the breasts of the apes . 
Snarling and barking they followed Numa into the dense labyrinth of foliage wherein he sought to hide himself from them . 
The ape man was in the lead , moving rapidly and yet with caution , depending even more upon his ears and nose than upon his eyes for information of the lion's whereabouts . 
The spoor was easy to follow , for the dragged body of the victim left a plain trail , blood spattered and scentful . 
Even such dull creatures as you or I might easily have followed it . 
To Tarzan and the apes of Kerchak it was as obvious as a cement sidewalk . 
Tarzan knew that they were nearing the great cat even before he heard an angry growl of warning just ahead . 
The carnivore crouched with his fore quarters upon the she ape . 
Tarzan could see that the latter was already dead but something within him made it seem quite necessary to rescue the useless body from the clutches of the enemy and to punish him . 
He shrieked taunts and insults at Numa , and tearing dead branches from the tree in which he danced , hurled them at the lion . 
The apes followed his example . 
Numa roared out in rage and vexation . 
He was hungry , but under such conditions he could not feed . 
Numa must be punished and driven away . 
He must be taught that even though he killed a Mangani , he would not be permitted to feed upon his kill . 
The man mind looked into the future , while the apes perceived only the immediate present . 
They would be content to escape today the menace of Numa , while Tarzan saw the necessity , and the means as well , of safeguarding the days to come . 
An out cropping of decomposed granite not far from Numa suggested ammunition of a much more painful nature . 
Calling to the apes to watch him , Tarzan slipped to the ground and gathered a handful of small fragments . 
That came in later years . 
Now he was but a youth , though one who already had wrested for himself a place in the councils of the savage beasts among whom a strange fate had cast him . 
The younger bulls , those who had grown up through childhood as his playmates , were as accustomed to Tarzan's scent as to that of any other member of the tribe . 
So now Tarzan led where he could not yet command . 
He had long since discovered the apish propensity for mimicry and learned to make use of it . 
Having filled his arms with fragments of rotted granite , he clambered again into a tree , and it pleased him to see that the apes had followed his example . 
His sudden roar of pain and rage was smothered by a volley from the apes , who had seen Tarzan's act . 
Numa shook his massive head and glared upward at his tormentors . 
Tarzan scratched his head , pondering some more effective method of offense , for he had determined to prevent Numa from profiting in any way through his attack upon the tribe . 
The man mind reasoned against the future , while the shaggy apes thought only of their present hatred of this ancestral enemy . 
Numa must be taught that the killing of an ape brought immediate punishment and no rewards . 
It would take but a few lessons to insure the former safety of the tribe . 
Let him hunt among the Gomangani , thought Tarzan . 
He will find them easier prey . 
I will teach ferocious Numa that he may not hunt the Mangani . 
But how to wrest the body of his victim from the feeding lion was the first question to be solved . 
At last Tarzan hit upon a plan . 
At any rate , I rather doubt that you or I would have chosen a similar plan for foiling an angry and a hungry lion . 
Tarzan required assistance in the scheme he had hit upon and his assistant must be equally as brave and almost as active as he . 
At least , Tarzan knew , Taug was courageous , and he was young and agile and wonderfully muscled . 
Taug ! cried the ape man . 
The great ape looked up from a dead limb he was attempting to tear from a lightning blasted tree . 
Go close to Numa and worry him , said Tarzan . 
Worry him until he charges . 
Lead him away from the body of Mamka . 
Keep him away as long as you can . 
He was across the clearing from Tarzan . 
Wresting the limb at last from the tree he dropped to the ground and advanced toward Numa , growling and barking out his insults . 
The worried lion looked up and rose to his feet . 
His tail went stiffly erect and Taug turned in flight , for he knew that warming signal of the charge . 
From behind the lion , Tarzan ran quickly toward the center of the clearing and the body of Mamka . 
Numa , all his eyes for Taug , did not see the ape man . 
Like a cat the heavy anthropoid scampered up the bole of his sanctuary . 
Numa's talons missed him by little more than inches . 
The apes , watching the grim race from the safety of the trees , screamed taunts at Numa and warnings to Tarzan . 
Behind him the black maned lion , head flattened , tail extended , racing , a jungle thoroughbred , across the sunlit clearing . 
Gunto was screaming warnings and advice . 
Catch me ! cried Tarzan , and with his heavy burden leaped straight for the big bull hanging there by his hind feet and one forepaw . 
Tarzan carried Mamka's corpse to a high crotch , where even Sheeta , the panther , could not get it . 
Numa paced angrily back and forth beneath the tree , roaring frightfully . 
He had been robbed of his kill and his revenge also . 
Tarzan thought much upon the little adventure of that day . 
There is little humor in the jungle that is not grim and awful . 
The beasts have little or no conception of humor but the young Englishman saw humor in many things which presented no humorous angle to his associates . 
Sheeta got away with his small prize unmolested . 
He spoke to the bulls of the ease with which Numa and Sheeta , in a single moon , had slain two members of the tribe . 
They will take us all for food , he cried . 
We hunt as we will through the jungle , paying no heed to approaching enemies . 
Even Manu , the monkey , does not so . 
He keeps two or three always watching for enemies . 
Gr r rmph , said Numgo . 
What are we to do ? asked Taug . 
We , too , should have two or three always watching for the approach of Numa , and Sabor , and Sheeta , replied Tarzan . 
No others need we fear , except Histah , the snake , and if we watch for the others we will see Histah if he comes , though gliding ever so silently . 
While others sought only food and love , Tarzan of the Apes sought food and joy . 
One day he hovered above the palisaded village of Mbonga , the chief , the jet cannibal of the jungle primeval . 
He saw , as he had seen many times before , the witch doctor , Rabba Kega , decked out in the head and hide of Gorgo , the buffalo . 
Then a broad grin widened the handsome face of the savage beast youth . 
Back into the jungle he went until chance , agility , strength , and cunning backed by his marvelous powers of perception , gave him an easy meal . 
It was quite dark when Tarzan returned to the village of Mbonga and took his now polished perch in the tree which overhangs the palisade upon one side of the walled enclosure . 
Tonight they sat gossiping about their cooking fires , the older members of the tribe or , if they were young , paired off in the shadows cast by the palm thatched huts . 
Tarzan dropped lightly into the village , and sneaking stealthily in the concealment of the denser shadows , approached the hut of the chief , Mbonga . 
Here he found that which he sought . 
It was the sudden shock of surprise that always sent them into a panic but of this Tarzan was not as yet fully aware . 
That was something he was to learn in the near future . 
He fell asleep with a broad grin upon his face . 
Manu , the monkey , awoke him in the morning by dropping discarded bean pods upon his upturned face from a branch a short distance above him . 
Tarzan looked up and smiled . 
He had been awakened thus before many times . 
He and Manu were fairly good friends , their friendship operating upon a reciprocal basis . 
The sun had been up for some time , and the tribe had already wandered off in search of food . 
Manu indicated the direction they had taken with a wave of his hand and a few piping notes of his squeaky little voice . 
Come , Manu , said Tarzan , and you will see that which shall make you dance for joy and squeal your wrinkled little head off . 
Come , follow Tarzan of the Apes . 
With that he set off in the direction Manu had indicated and above him , chattering , scolding and squealing , skipped Manu , the monkey . 
Across Tarzan's shoulders was the thing he had stolen from the village of Mbonga , the chief , the evening before . 
The tribe was feeding in the forest beside the clearing where Gunto , and Taug , and Tarzan had so harassed Numa and finally taken away from him the fruit of his kill . 
Some of them were in the clearing itself . 
That you and I exist today must be due to the preparedness of some shaggy anthropoid of the Oligocene . 
Of course the apes of Kerchak were always prepared , after their own way Tarzan had merely suggested a new and additional safeguard . 
Gunto was posted today to the north of the clearing . 
He squatted in the fork of a tree from where he might view the jungle for quite a distance about him . 
It was he who first discovered the enemy . 
A rustling in the undergrowth attracted his attention , and a moment later he had a partial view of a shaggy mane and tawny yellow back . 
Just a glimpse it was through the matted foliage beneath him but it brought from Gunto's leathern lungs a shrill Kreeg ah ! which is the ape for beware , or danger . 
Inside the clearing , Numa paused and on the instant there fell upon him from the trees near by a shower of broken rock and dead limbs torn from age old trees . 
A dozen times he was hit , and then the apes ran down and gathered other rocks , pelting him unmercifully . 
With shrieks and roars and loud barkings the great apes of the tribe of Kerchak rushed upon the fallen lion . 
Sticks and stones and yellow fangs menaced the still form . 
Square upon the body of Numa it alighted and there it danced and screamed and shrieked out its challenge against the bulls of Kerchak . 
For an instant they paused , paralyzed by the wonder of the thing . 
And when the bulls paused , Manu reached down and seized a tawny ear . 
With all his little might he tugged upon the heavy head until slowly it turned back , revealing the tousled , black head and clean cut profile of Tarzan of the Apes . 
And Teeka , his mate , came too , taking her place with bared fangs at Taug's side . 
others followed their example , until at last Tarzan was surrounded by a ring of hairy champions who would permit no enemy to approach him . 
It was a surprised and chastened Tarzan who opened his eyes to consciousness a few minutes later . 
He looked about him at the surrounding apes and slowly there returned to him a realization of what had occurred . 
Gradually a broad grin illuminated his features . 
His bruises were many and they hurt but the good that had come from his adventure was worth all that it had cost . 
He had discovered that Manu , the monkey even little , cowardly Manu had risked his life in his defense . 
It made Tarzan very glad to know these things but at the other lesson he had been taught he reddened . 
Hunting had proved poor that day , for there are lean days as well as fat ones for even the greatest of the jungle hunters . 
But for the most part Tarzan had fed well always . 
Hunger , however , may blunt the most epicurean taste , and Tarzan was not exactly an epicure . 
It was well past midnight before Tarzan even could begin to see the end of the orgy . 
The blacks were now falling asleep rapidly but a few still persisted . 
Nothing less than a stomachful would allay the gnawing craving of that great emptiness . 
He must therefore have ample time to forage in peace . 
At last but a single warrior remained true to his ideals an old fellow whose once wrinkled belly was now as smooth and as tight as the head of a drum . 
Then he would roll over on his back with a loud groan and lie there while he slowly forced the food between his teeth and down into his gorged stomach . 
It was evident to Tarzan that the old fellow would eat until he died , or until there was no more meat . 
The ape man shook his head in disgust . 
What foul creatures were these Gomangani ? Yet of all the jungle folk they alone resembled Tarzan closely in form . 
Tarzan was ashamed , for of all the beasts of the jungle , then , man was the most disgusting man and Dango , the hyena . 
Only man and Dango ate until they swelled up like a dead rat . 
Now he could readily believe that man , given the opportunity , would do the same . 
Man , too , was the most unlovely of creatures with his skinny legs and his big stomach , his filed teeth , and his thick , red lips . 
Tarzan's gaze was riveted upon the hideous old warrior wallowing in filth beneath him . 
There ! the thing was struggling to its knees to reach for another morsel of flesh . 
It groaned aloud in pain and yet it persisted in eating , eating , ever eating . 
Tarzan could endure it no longer neither his hunger nor his disgust . 
Silently he slipped to the ground with the bole of the great tree between himself and the feaster . 
The man was still kneeling , bent almost double in agony , before the cooking pot . 
His back was toward the ape man . 
Swiftly and noiselessly Tarzan approached him . 
There was no sound as steel fingers closed about the black throat . 
The struggle was short , for the man was old and already half stupefied from the effects of the gorging and the beer . 
When the other blacks awoke they would have something to think about ! Tarzan grinned . 
He was quite sure that even Dango would draw the line at such filthy tasting drink as that , and his contempt for man increased with the conviction . 
Tarzan swung off into the jungle some half mile or so before he paused to partake of his stolen food . 
He noticed that it gave forth a strange and unpleasant odor , but assumed that this was due to the fact that it had stood in a vessel of water above a fire . 
Tarzan was , of course , unaccustomed to cooked food . 
He did not like it but he was very hungry and had eaten a considerable portion of his haul before it was really borne in upon him that the stuff was nauseating . 
It required far less than he had imagined it would to satisfy his appetite . 
Throwing the balance to the ground he curled up in a convenient crotch and sought slumber but slumber seemed difficult to woo . 
He gritted his teeth and held them back . 
He was not to be robbed of his meal after waiting so long to obtain it . 
He had succeeded in dozing when the roaring of a lion awoke him . 
He sat up to discover that it was broad daylight . 
Could it be that he had really slept ? He did not feel particularly refreshed as he should have after a good sleep . 
A noise attracted his attention , and he looked down to see a lion standing at the foot of the tree gazing hungrily at him . 
Tarzan made a face at the king of beasts , whereat Numa , greatly to the ape man's surprise , started to climb up into the branches toward him . 
Now , never before had Tarzan seen a lion climb a tree , yet , for some unaccountable reason , he was not greatly surprised that this particular lion should do so . 
As the lion climbed slowly toward him , Tarzan sought higher branches but to his chagrin , he discovered that it was with the utmost difficulty that he could climb at all . 
Again and again he slipped back , losing all that he had gained , while the lion kept steadily at his climbing , coming ever closer and closer to the ape man . 
Tarzan could see the hungry light in the yellow green eyes . 
He could see the slaver on the drooping jowls , and the great fangs agape to seize and destroy him . 
Clawing desperately , the ape man at last succeeded in gaining a little upon his pursuer . 
He reached the more slender branches far aloft where he well knew no lion could follow yet on and on came devil faced Numa . 
It was incredible but it was true . 
To the very top of a tall tree the ape man clawed his awkward way and after him came Numa , the lion , moaning dismally . 
At last Tarzan stood balanced upon the very utmost pinnacle of a swaying branch , high above the forest . 
He could go no farther . 
Below him the lion came steadily upward , and Tarzan of the Apes realized that at last the end had come . 
Nearer and nearer came the lion . 
Another moment and he could reach up with one great paw and drag the ape man downward to those awful jaws . 
A whirring noise above his head caused Tarzan to glance apprehensively upward . 
A great bird was circling close above him . 
The lion was already reaching forth a taloned paw to seize him when the bird swooped and buried no less formidable talons in Tarzan's back . 
The pain was numbing but it was with a sense of relief that the ape man felt himself snatched from the clutches of Numa . 
With a great whirring of wings the bird rose rapidly until the forest lay far below . 
It made Tarzan sick and dizzy to look down upon it from so great a height , so he closed his eyes tight and held his breath . 
Higher and higher climbed the huge bird . 
The jungle was so far away that he could see only a dim , green blur below him , but just above and quite close was the sun . 
Tarzan reached out his hands and warmed them , for they were very cold . 
Then a sudden madness seized him . 
The mighty wings fluttered a few more times , spasmodically , the talons relaxed their hold , and Tarzan of the Apes fell hurtling downward toward the distant jungle . 
It seemed to the ape man that he fell for many minutes before he crashed through the leafy verdure of the tree tops . 
The smaller branches broke his fall , so that he came to rest for an instant upon the very branch upon which he had sought slumber the previous night . 
Once more he opened his eyes , which he had closed during the fall . 
With all his old agility he clambered back to the crotch from which he had toppled . 
The ape man gasped for breath . 
Cold sweat stood out from every pore , there was a great sickness at the pit of Tarzan's stomach . 
Tarzan of the Apes had dreamed his first dream . 
He could not believe what he had seen and yet , having seen even these incredible things , he could not disbelieve the evidence of his own perceptions . 
Never in all his life had Tarzan's senses deceived him badly , and so , naturally , he had great faith in them . 
Each perception which ever had been transmitted to Tarzan's brain had been , with varying accuracy , a true perception . 
He could not conceive of the possibility of apparently having passed through such a weird adventure in which there was no grain of truth . 
To say the least , he was a very puzzled Tarzan as he tried to compose himself once more for slumber a very puzzled and a very nauseated Tarzan . 
As he thought deeply upon the strange occurrences of the night , he witnessed another remarkable happening . 
As the old man's frightful face , with upturned eyes , set and glassy , came close to Tarzan , the jaws opened to seize him . 
The ape man struck furiously at the hideous face , and as he struck the apparition disappeared . 
Tarzan sat straight up upon his branch trembling in every limb , wide eyed and panting . 
With a grimace he flicked it off into the darkness beneath . 
But at last the tardy morning broke and a sick and feverish Tarzan wound sluggishly through the dank and gloomy mazes of the forest in search of water . 
His whole body seemed on fire , a great sickness surged upward to his throat . 
But he did not die . 
When he awoke he found himself weak but no longer sick . 
Once more he sought water , and after drinking deeply , took his way slowly toward the cabin by the sea . 
In times of loneliness and trouble it had long been his custom to seek there the quiet and restfulness which he could find nowhere else . 
From beneath shaggy , beetling brows they glared maliciously upon him , maliciously and with a keen curiosity then Tarzan entered the cabin and closed the door after him . 
Here , with all the world shut out from him , he could dream without fear of interruption . 
Today he turned to the picture of the huge bird which bore off the little Tarmangani in its talons . 
Tarzan puckered his brows as he examined the colored print . 
There was a more or less lifelike illustration of Bolgani in colors and in a cage , with many remarkable looking Tarmangani standing against a rail and peering curiously at the snarling brute . 
Tarzan wondered not a little , as he always did , at the odd and seemingly useless array of colored plumage which covered the bodies of the Tarmangani . 
It always caused him to grin a trifle when he looked at these strange creatures . 
He wondered if they so covered their bodies from shame of their hairlessness or because they thought the odd things they wore added any to the beauty of their appearance . 
Particularly was Tarzan amused by the grotesque headdresses of the pictured people . 
Twice he brushed the back of a hand smartly across his eyes but only for a moment could he bring the bugs back to coherent and intelligible form . 
Turning quickly toward the interruption Tarzan was amazed , for a moment , to see bulking large in the doorway the huge and hairy form of Bolgani , the gorilla . 
But for Tarzan there was no escape . 
Bolgani was glowering at him from red rimmed , wicked eyes . 
In a moment he would rush in and seize the ape man . 
As he did so his eyes fell upon the book he had been looking at which still lay open at the picture of Bolgani . 
Tarzan found his knife , but he merely fingered it idly and grinned in the direction of the advancing gorilla . 
He was just himself now , ready to fight , if necessary but still sure that no flesh and blood gorilla stood before him . 
The thing should be fading away into thin air by now , thought Tarzan , or changing into something else yet it did not . 
This was quite the most realistic of his sleep adventures , thought Tarzan , as he passively awaited the next amusing incident . 
And then the gorilla charged . 
The gorilla seemed puzzled by the strange passivity of the hairless ape . 
He paused an instant with his jaws snarling close to the other's throat , then he seemed suddenly to come to some decision . 
Now , indeed , was Tarzan sure that this was a sleep adventure , and so grinned largely as the giant gorilla bore him , unresisting , away . 
Presently , reasoned Tarzan , he would awaken and find himself back in the cabin where he had fallen asleep . 
He glanced back at the thought and saw the cabin door standing wide open . 
This would never do ! Always had he been careful to close and latch it against wild intruders . 
Manu , the monkey , would make sad havoc there among Tarzan's treasures should he have access to the interior for even a few minutes . 
The question which arose in Tarzan's mind was a baffling one . 
Tarzan essayed to slip from Bolgani's shoulder but the great beast only growled ominously and gripped him tighter . 
The grin of derision faded from Tarzan's lips as the pain and the hot blood aroused his fighting instincts . 
Asleep or awake , this thing was no longer a joke ! Biting , tearing , and snarling , the two rolled over upon the ground . 
The gorilla now was frantic with insane rage . 
At last he succeeded his great muscles tensed and knotted beneath his smooth hide as he forced with every ounce of his mighty strength to push the hairy torso from him . 
There were a few spasmodic movements of the limbs and the brute was still . 
Tarzan of the Apes stood looking down upon his kill , and as he stood there he ran his fingers through his thick , black shock of hair . 
Presently he stooped and touched the dead body . 
Some of the red life blood of the gorilla crimsoned his fingers . 
He raised them to his nose and sniffed . 
Then he shook his head and turned toward the cabin . 
The door was still open . 
He closed it and fastened the latch . 
Returning toward the body of his kill he again paused and scratched his head . 
Far in the distance a lion answered . 
It was very real and , yet , he did not know . 
Puzzled , he turned away into the jungle . 
The Battle for Teeka THE DAY WAS perfect . 
A cool breeze tempered the heat of the equatorial sun . 
Peace had reigned within the tribe for weeks and no alien enemy had trespassed upon its preserves from without . 
To the ape mind all this was sufficient evidence that the future would be identical with the immediate past that Utopia would persist . 
The sentinels , now from habit become a fixed tribal custom , either relaxed their vigilance or entirely deserted their posts , as the whim seized them . 
The tribe was far scattered in search of food . 
Thus may peace and prosperity undermine the safety of the most primitive community even as it does that of the most cultured . 
Even the individuals became less watchful and alert , so that one might have thought Numa and Sabor and Sheeta entirely deleted from the scheme of things . 
Still farther south there moved through the forest a sinister figure a huge bull ape , maddened by solitude and defeat . 
A week before he had contended for the kingship of a tribe far distant , and now battered , and still sore , he roamed the wilderness an outcast . 
It would require an entire moon at least to bring forgetfulness to him he had wronged , and so Toog wandered a strange jungle , grim , terrible , hate filled . 
It was in this mental state that Toog came unexpectedly upon a young she feeding alone in the jungle a stranger she , lithe and strong and beautiful beyond compare . 
But not alone were they concerned with Teeka they roved the surrounding jungle in search of the bulls and cows and balus of her tribe , though principally for the bulls . 
Toog could see no sign of any ape other than the strange she and a young balu playing near by . 
Toog was a fine , big male , resembling in many ways Teeka's mate , Taug . 
Each was in his prime , and each was wonderfully muscled , perfectly fanged and as horrifyingly ferocious as the most exacting and particular she could wish . 
And even then Teeka retained some rights in the matter . 
Just now Teeka was occupied in a fascinating search for beetles , to the exclusion of all else . 
She did not realize how far she and Gazan had become separated from the balance of the tribe , nor were her defensive senses upon the alert as they should have been . 
Toog , having satisfied himself that only the she and her balu were in the immediate vicinity , crept stealthily forward . 
Toog halted a few paces from her . 
His anger had fled before the seductive feminine charms of the stranger . 
He made conciliatory noises a species of clucking sound with his broad , flat lips that were , too , not greatly dissimilar to that which might be produced in an osculatory solo . 
But Teeka only bared her fangs and growled . 
Little Gazan started to run toward his mother , but she warned him away with a quick Kreeg ah ! telling him to run high into a tall tree . 
Evidently Teeka was not favorably impressed by her new suitor . 
Toog realized this and altered his methods accordingly . 
He swelled his giant chest , beat upon it with his calloused knuckles and swaggered to and fro before her . 
I am Toog , he boasted . 
Look at my fighting fangs . 
Look at my great arms and my mighty legs . 
With one bite I can slay your biggest bull . 
Alone have I slain Sheeta . 
Then he waited for the effect , nor did he have long to wait . 
Teeka turned with a swiftness which belied her great weight and bolted in the opposite direction . 
Toog , with an angry growl , leaped in pursuit but the smaller , lighter female was too fleet for him . 
He chased her for a few yards and then , foaming and barking , he halted and beat upon the ground with his hard fists . 
From the tree above him little Gazan looked down and witnessed the stranger bull's discomfiture . 
Being young , and thinking himself safe above the reach of the heavy male , Gazan screamed an ill timed insult at their tormentor . 
Teeka had halted at a little distance she would not go far from her balu that Toog quickly realized and as quickly determined to take advantage of . 
He saw that the tree in which the young ape squatted was isolated and that Gazan could not reach another without coming to earth . 
He would obtain the mother through her love for her young . 
He swung himself into the lower branches of the tree . 
Little Gazan ceased to insult him his expression of deviltry changed to one of apprehension , which was quickly followed by fear as Toog commenced to ascend toward him . 
She knew that he could not ascend far enough to reach Gazan , so she sat at a little distance from the tree and applied jungle opprobrium to him . 
Being a female , she was a past master of the art . 
But she did not know the malevolent cunning of Toog's little brain . 
Toog slowly reached the limit to which he dared risk his great weight to the slender branches . 
Gazan was still fifteen feet above him . 
The bull braced himself and seized the main branch in his powerful hands , then he commenced shaking it vigorously . 
Instantly she realized what the bull purposed . 
Gazan clung far out upon a swaying limb . 
But before ever she reached the bole , Toog had succeeded , by violent shaking of the branch , to loosen Gazan's hold . 
Moaning , Teeka stooped to lift the still form in her arms but at the same instant Toog was upon her . 
Struggling and biting she fought to free herself but the giant muscles of the great bull were too much for her lesser strength . 
Toog struck and choked her repeatedly until finally , half unconscious , she lapsed into quasi submission . 
Then the bull lifted her to his shoulder and turned back to the trail toward the south from whence he had come . 
Upon the ground lay the quiet form of little Gazan . 
The sun rose slowly toward meridian . 
A mangy thing , lifting its nose to scent the jungle breeze , crept through the underbrush . 
It was Dango , the hyena . 
Presently its ugly muzzle broke through some near by foliage and its cruel eyes fastened upon Gazan . 
Long since had the termites and the small rodents picked clean the sturdy English bones . 
For years Tarzan had seen it lying there , giving it no more attention than he gave the countless thousand bones that strewed his jungle haunts . 
On the bed another , smaller , skeleton reposed and the youth ignored it as he ignored the other . 
To Tarzan they were bones just bones . 
He turned the pages first of one book and then of another . 
He glanced at pictures which he knew by heart , and tossed the books aside . 
He rummaged for the thousandth time in the cupboard . 
He took out a bag which contained several small , round pieces of metal . 
In strange ways did heredity manifest itself in the ape man . 
Come of an orderly race , he himself was orderly without knowing why . 
The apes dropped things wherever their interest in them waned in the tall grass or from the high flung branches of the trees . 
What they dropped they sometimes found again , by accident but not so the ways of Tarzan . 
For his few belongings he had a place and scrupulously he returned each thing to its proper place when he was done with it . 
The round pieces of metal in the little bag always interested him . 
Raised pictures were upon either side , the meaning of which he did not quite understand . 
The pieces were bright and shiny . 
It amused him to arrange them in various figures upon the table . 
Hundreds of times had he played thus . 
Today , while so engaged , he dropped a lovely yellow piece an English sovereign which rolled beneath the bed where lay all that was mortal of the once beautiful Lady Alice . 
True to form , Tarzan at once dropped to his hands and knees and searched beneath the bed for the lost gold piece . 
Strange as it might appear , he had never before looked beneath the bed . 
He found the gold piece , and something else he found , too a small wooden box with a loose cover . 
Bringing them both out he returned the sovereign to its bag and the bag to its shelf within the cupboard then he investigated the box . 
It contained a quantity of cylindrical bits of metal , cone shaped at one end and flat at the other , with a projecting rim . 
They were all quite green and dull , coated with years of verdigris . 
Tarzan removed a handful of them from the box and examined them . 
He rubbed one upon another and discovered that the green came off , leaving a shiny surface for two thirds of their length and a dull gray over the cone shaped end . 
Finding a bit of wood he rubbed one of the cylinders rapidly and was rewarded by a lustrous sheen which pleased him . 
At his side hung a pocket pouch taken from the body of one of the numerous black warriors he had slain . 
Shortly before he reached them he heard a great commotion ahead of him the loud screams of shes and balus , the savage , angry barking and growling of the great bulls . 
Instantly he increased his speed , for the Kreeg ahs that came to his ears warned him that something was amiss with his fellows . 
Nowhere did he see Teeka or Gazan , and soon he began inquiring of the other apes where they might be but none had seen them recently . 
Now the lower orders are not highly imaginative . 
He was beginning to become peeved and had about made up his mind to chastise Teeka for wandering so far afield when he wanted her . 
He was moving south along a game trail , his calloused soles and knuckles giving forth no sound , when he came upon Dango at the opposite side of a small clearing . 
He did not fear Dango but he wanted to see what it was that Dango stalked . 
In a way , possibly , he was actuated as much by curiosity as by caution . 
With a cry so frightful , so bestial , that it momentarily paralyzed the startled Dango , the great ape launched his mighty bulk upon the surprised hyena . 
With a cry and a snarl , Dango , crushed to earth , turned to tear at his assailant but as effectively might a sparrow turn upon a hawk . 
Again he raised his voice in the call of the bull ape to its mate , but there was no reply then he leaned down to sniff at the body of Gazan . 
In the breast of this savage , hideous beast there beat a heart which was moved , however slightly , by the same emotions of paternal love which affect us . 
And so Taug felt sorrow as any other father might feel sorrow at the loss of a little child . 
For a moment Taug sniffed at the quiet little form . 
With his muzzle and his tongue he smoothed and caressed the rumpled coat . 
From his savage lips broke a low moan but quickly upon the heels of sorrow came the overmastering desire for revenge . 
Answering his cries came the cries of the tribe as they swung through the trees toward him . 
When at last he came upon the tribe he saw their members gathered about Taug and something which lay quietly upon the ground . 
Dropping among them , Tarzan approached the center of the group . 
Taug was stiff roaring out his challenges but when he saw Tarzan he ceased and stooping picked up Gazan in his arms and held him out for Tarzan to see . 
Of all the bulls of the tribe , Taug held affection for Tarzan only . 
Tarzan he trusted and looked up to as one wiser and more cunning . 
To Tarzan he came now to the playmate of his balu days , the companion of innumerable battles of his maturity . 
When Tarzan saw the still form in Taug's arms , a low growl broke from his lips , for he too loved Teeka's little balu . 
Who did it ? he asked . 
Where is Teeka ? I do not know , replied Taug . 
I found him lying here with Dango about to feed upon him but it was not Dango that did it there are no fang marks upon him . 
Tarzan came closer and placed an ear against Gazan's breast . 
He is not dead , he said . 
Maybe he will not die . 
He pressed through the crowd of apes and circled once about them , examining the ground step by step . 
Suddenly he stopped and placing his nose close to the earth sniffed . 
Then he sprang to his feet , giving a peculiar cry . 
Taug and the others pressed forward , for the sound told them that the hunter had found the spoor of his quarry . 
A stranger bull has been here , said Tarzan . 
It was he that hurt Gazan . 
He has carried off Teeka . 
Taug and the other bulls commenced to roar and threaten but they did nothing . 
Had the stranger bull been within sight they would have torn him to pieces but it did not occur to them to follow him . 
If the three bulls had been watching around the tribe this would not have happened , said Tarzan . 
Such things will happen as long as you do not keep the three bulls watching for an enemy . 
The jungle is full of enemies , and yet you let your shes and your balus feed where they will , alone and unprotected . 
Tarzan goes now he goes to find Teeka and bring her back to the tribe . 
The idea appealed to the other bulls . 
We will all go , they cried . 
No , said Tarzan , you will not all go . 
We cannot take shes and balus when we go out to hunt and fight . 
You must remain to guard them or you will lose them all . 
The community instinct was ingrained in their characters through ages of custom . 
His senses told him that there was but a single bull connected with the attack upon Teeka and Gazan . 
A single enemy did not require the entire tribe for his punishment . 
Two swift bulls could quickly overhaul him and rescue Teeka . 
In the past no one ever had thought to go forth in search of the shes that were occasionally stolen from the tribe . 
Just once before had Tarzan wished to follow and revenge . 
That had been years before when Kulonga , the son of Mbonga , the chief , had slain Kala . 
Then , single handed , Tarzan had pursued and avenged . 
Now , though to a lesser degree , he was moved by the same passion . 
Leave Gazan with Mumga , he said . 
Where are we going ? asked Taug . 
We are going to get Teeka , replied the ape man , and kill the bull who has stolen her . 
Come ! He turned again to the spoor of the stranger bull , which showed plainly to his trained senses , nor did he glance back to note if Taug followed . 
No other bull of the tribe of Kerchak was so good a trailer as Tarzan , for his trained senses were aided by a high order of intelligence . 
Following close behind the lithe figure of the ape man came the huge and shaggy bull ape . 
No words passed between them . 
They moved as silently as two shadows among the myriad shadows of the forest . 
Alert as his eyes and ears , was Tarzan's patrician nose . 
Teeka's familiar scent spoor told both Tarzan and Taug that they were upon her trail , and soon the scent of Toog became as familiar as the other . 
They were progressing rapidly when suddenly dense clouds overcast the sun . 
And the rain did what Tarzan knew that it would do it wiped the spoor of the quarry from the face of the earth . 
Only the fact that the spoor of Teeka and her abductor was obliterated found lodgment in his thoughts . 
Here they halted , while Tarzan examined every branch and leaf which might have been touched by the fleeing ape . 
He sniffed the bole of the tree , and with his keen eyes he sought to find upon the bark some sign of the way the quarry had taken . 
Once again the two took up the trail , but it was slow work now and there were many discouraging delays when the spoor seemed lost beyond recovery . 
In such places the imprint of a huge handlike foot and the knuckles of one great hand were sometimes plain enough for an ordinary mortal to read . 
Tarzan knew from these and other indications that the ape was yet carrying Teeka . 
The scent was now strong , for it had been made since the rain , and Tarzan knew that it would not be long before they came upon the thief and his loot . 
Instantly the scolding and squeaking ceased , and off tore the long tailed mite as though Sheeta , the panther , had been endowed with wings and was in close pursuit of him . 
To all appearances he was only a very much frightened little monkey , fleeing for his life there seemed nothing sinister about him . 
On through the jungle he forced his way in the direction of the stamping ground of his tribe . 
Maybe he could wish her on the king it is possible that such a thought urged him on . 
The two bulls looked up , baring long fighting fangs , as Toog appeared in the distance . 
The latter recognized the two as friends . 
It is Toog , he growled . 
Toog has come back with a new she . 
The apes waited his nearer approach . 
Teeka turned a snarling , fanged face toward them . 
As they squatted looking at one another there raced through the trees toward them a long tailed little monkey with gray whiskers . 
He was a very excited little monkey when he came to a halt upon the limb of a tree directly overhead . 
Two strange bulls come , he cried . 
One is a Mangani , the other a hideous ape without hair upon his body . 
They follow the spoor of Toog . 
The four apes turned their eyes backward along the trail Toog had just come then they looked at one another for a minute . 
Come , said the larger of Toog's two friends , we will wait for the strangers in the thick bushes beyond the clearing . 
He turned and waddled away across the open place , the others following him . 
The little monkey danced about , all excitement . 
His chief diversion in life was to bring about bloody encounters between the larger denizens of the forest , that he might sit in the safety of the trees and witness the spectacles . 
He was a glutton for gore , was this little , whiskered , gray monkey , so long as it was the gore of others a typical fight fan was the graybeard . 
The apes hid themselves in the shrubbery beside the trail along which the two stranger bulls would pass . 
She had heard the words of Manu , and she knew that the hairless ape must be Tarzan , while the other was , doubtless , Taug . 
Never , in her wildest hopes , had she expected succor of this sort . 
Her one thought had been to escape and find her way back to the tribe of Kerchak but even this had appeared to her practically impossible , so closely did Toog watch her . 
As Taug and Tarzan reached the grove where Toog had come upon his friends , the ape scent became so strong that both knew the quarry was but a short distance ahead . 
And so they went even more cautiously , for they wished to come upon the thief from behind if they could and charge him before he was aware of their presence . 
The small brains of Toog and his companions had not been able to foresee that Teeka might betray them , and now that she had , they went wild with rage . 
Toog struck the she a mighty blow that felled her , and then the three rushed forth to do battle with Tarzan and Taug . 
The little monkey danced upon his perch and screamed with delight . 
And indeed he might well be delighted , for it was a lovely fight . 
There were no preliminaries , no formalities , no introductions the five bulls merely charged and clinched . 
They rolled in the narrow trail and into the thick verdure beside it . 
They bit and clawed and scratched and struck , and all the while they kept up the most frightful chorus of growlings and barkings and roarings . 
In five minutes they were torn and bleeding , and the little graybeard leaped high , shrilling his primitive bravos but always his attitude was thumbs down . 
He wanted to see something killed . 
He did not care whether it were friend or foe . 
It was blood he wanted blood and death . 
Taug had been set upon by Toog and another of the apes , while Tarzan had the third a huge brute with the strength of a buffalo . 
Never before had Tarzan's assailant beheld so strange a creature as this slippery , hairless bull with which he battled . 
Sweat and blood covered Tarzan's sleek , brown hide . 
Again and again he slipped from the clutches of the great bull , and all the while he struggled to free his hunting knife from the scabbard in which it had stuck . 
At length he succeeded a brown hand shot out and clutched a hairy throat , another flew upward clutching the sharp blade . 
Three swift , powerful strokes and the bull relaxed with a groan , falling limp beneath his antagonist . 
Instantly Tarzan broke from the clutches of the dying bull and sprang to Taug's assistance . 
Toog saw him coming and wheeled to meet him . 
In the impact of the charge , Tarzan's knife was wrenched from his hand and then Toog closed with him . 
Now was the battle even two against two while on the verge , Teeka , now recovered from the blow that had felled her , slunk waiting for an opportunity to aid . 
She saw Tarzan's knife and picked it up . 
She never had used it , but knew how Tarzan used it . 
Always had she been afraid of the thing which dealt death to the mightiest of the jungle people with the ease that Tantor's great tusks deal death to Tantor's enemies . 
She saw Tarzan's pocket pouch torn from his side , and with the curiosity of an ape , that even danger and excitement cannot entirely dispel , she picked this up , too . 
Now the bulls were standing the clinches had been broken . 
Blood streamed down their sides their faces were crimsoned with it . 
Little graybeard was so fascinated that at last he had even forgotten to scream and dance but sat rigid with delight in the enjoyment of the spectacle . 
Back across the grove Tarzan and Taug forced their adversaries . 
She scarce knew what to do . 
The roars and screams of the fighters reverberated through the jungle , awakening the echoes in the distant hills . 
From the throat of Tarzan's antagonist had come a score of Kreeg ahs ! and now from behind came the reply he had awaited . 
Into the grove , barking and growling , came a score of huge bull apes the fighting men of Toog's tribe . 
Teeka saw them first and screamed a warning to Tarzan and Taug . 
Then she fled past the fighters toward the opposite side of the clearing , fear for a moment claiming her . 
Nor can one censure her after the frightful ordeal from which she was still suffering . 
Down upon them came the great apes . 
In a moment Tarzan and Taug would be torn to shreds that would later form the PIECE DE RESISTANCE of the savage orgy of a Dum Dum . 
Teeka turned to glance back . 
She had seen Tarzan throw missiles , and she had learned this with many other things from her childhood playmate . 
She sought for something to throw and at last her fingers touched upon the hard objects in the pouch that had been torn from the ape man . 
Tearing the receptacle open , she gathered a handful of shiny cylinders heavy for their size , they seemed to her , and good missiles . 
With all her strength she hurled them at the apes battling in front of the granite boulder . 
The result surprised Teeka quite as much as it did the apes . 
There was a loud explosion , which deafened the fighters , and a puff of acrid smoke . 
Never before had one there heard such a frightful noise . 
They , too , would have fled had they not seen Teeka standing there before them , the knife and the pocket pouch in her hands . 
What was it ? asked Tarzan . 
I hurled these at the stranger bulls , and she held forth another handful of the shiny metal cylinders with the dull gray , cone shaped ends . 
Tarzan looked at them and scratched his head . 
What are they ? asked Taug . 
I do not know , said Tarzan . 
The little monkey with the gray beard halted among the trees a mile away and huddled , terrified , against a branch . 
He did not know that the dead father of Tarzan of the Apes , reaching back out of the past across a span of twenty years , had saved his son's life . 
Nor did Tarzan , Lord Greystoke , know it either . 
A Jungle Joke TIME SELDOM HUNG heavily upon Tarzan's hands . 
Even where there is sameness there cannot be monotony if most of the sameness consists in dodging death first in one form and then in another or in inflicting death upon others . 
There is a spice to such an existence but even this Tarzan of the Apes varied in activities of his own invention . 
His spirits seemed not to age at all he was still a playful child , much to the discomfiture of his fellow apes . 
They could not understand him or his ways , for with maturity they quickly forgot their youth and its pastimes . 
Nor could Tarzan quite understand them . 
Easily Tarzan eluded the charge and quickly Taug's anger vanished , though it was not replaced with playfulness yet the ape man realized that Taug was not amused nor was he amusing . 
The big bull ape seemed to have lost whatever sense of humor he once may have possessed . 
With a grunt of disappointment , young Lord Greystoke turned to other fields of endeavor . 
A strand of black hair fell across one eye . 
He brushed it aside with the palm of a hand and a toss of his head . 
It suggested something to do , so he sought his quiver which lay cached in the hollow bole of a lightning riven tree . 
Removing the arrows he turned the quiver upside down , emptying upon the ground the contents of its bottom his few treasures . 
Among them was a flat bit of stone and a shell which he had picked up from the beach near his father's cabin . 
With great care he rubbed the edge of the shell back and forth upon the flat stone until the soft edge was quite fine and sharp . 
He worked much as a barber does who hones a razor , and with every evidence of similar practice but his proficiency was the result of years of painstaking effort . 
All around his head he went until his black shock was rudely bobbed with a ragged bang in front . 
For the appearance of it he cared nothing but in the matter of safety and comfort it meant everything . 
As Tarzan labored at his tonsorial task , his active mind was busy with many things . 
He recalled his recent battle with Bolgani , the gorilla , the wounds of which were but just healed . 
It was the scent of the Gomangani . 
Curiosity , that best developed , common heritage of man and ape , always prompted Tarzan to investigate where the Gomangani were concerned . 
There was that about them which aroused his imagination . 
Possibly it was because of the diversity of their activities and interests . 
The apes lived to eat and sleep and propagate . 
The same was true of all the other denizens of the jungle , save the Gomangani . 
They made bows and spears and arrows , poison , cooking pots , things of metal to wear around their arms and legs . 
But their ways were interesting , and Tarzan never tired of spying upon them . 
and from them he learned much more than he realized , though always his principal thought was of some new way in which he could render their lives miserable . 
The baiting of the blacks was Tarzan's chief divertissement . 
Tarzan realized now that the blacks were very near and that there were many of them , so he went silently and with great caution . 
And so presently he came within sight of the black warriors of Mbonga , the chief . 
They were engaged in a pursuit with which Tarzan was more or less familiar , having watched them at it upon other occasions . 
They were placing and baiting a trap for Numa , the lion . 
These things the blacks had learned in their old home , before they escaped through the untracked jungle to their new village . 
Formerly they had dwelt in the Belgian Congo until the cruelties of their heartless oppressors had driven them to seek the safety of unexplored solitudes beyond the boundaries of Leopold's domain . 
No longer was there a white market for their savage wares but there was still a sufficient incentive for the taking of Numa alive . 
First was the necessity for ridding the jungle of man eaters , and it was only after depredations by these grim and terrible scourges that a lion hunt was organized . 
Tarzan had witnessed these cruel rites in the past . 
Being himself more savage than the savage warriors of the Gomangani , he was not so shocked by the cruelty of them as he should have been , yet they did shock him . 
He could not understand the strange feeling of revulsion which possessed him at such times . 
Upon two occasions he had freed Numa from the trap before the blacks had returned to discover the success or failure of their venture . 
He would do the same today that he decided immediately he realized the nature of their intentions . 
Leaving the trap in the center of a broad elephant trail near the drinking hole , the warriors turned back toward their village . 
On the morrow they would come again . 
Tarzan looked after them , upon his lips an unconscious sneer the heritage of unguessed caste . 
As Tarzan watched , through narrowed lids , the last of the warriors disappear beyond a turn in the trail , his expression altered to the urge of a newborn thought . 
A slow , grim smile touched his lips . 
He looked down upon the frightened , bleating kid , advertising , in its fear and its innocence , its presence and its helplessness . 
Dropping to the ground , Tarzan approached the trap and entered . 
At the water's edge the ape man stooped and with hunting knife and quick strong fingers deftly removed the dead kid's viscera . 
Scraping a hole in the mud , he buried these parts which he did not eat , and swinging the body to his shoulder took to the trees . 
An idea , it was , which permitted him to forget that he was hungry . 
The meat safely cached , Tarzan trotted along the elephant trail after the Gomangani . 
Two or three miles from the cage he overtook them and then he swung into the trees and followed above and behind them waiting his chance . 
Among the blacks was Rabba Kega , the witch doctor . 
Tarzan hated them all but Rabba Kega he especially hated . 
As the blacks filed along the winding path , Rabba Kega , being lazy , dropped behind . 
This Tarzan noted , and it filled him with satisfaction his being radiated a grim and terrible content . 
Like an angel of death he hovered above the unsuspecting black . 
Rabba Kega , knowing that the village was but a short distance ahead , sat down to rest . 
Rest well , O Rabba Kega ! It is thy last opportunity . 
Tarzan crept stealthily among the branches of the tree above the well fed , self satisfied witch doctor . 
Rabba Kega sat with his back against the bole of a tree , facing Tarzan . 
A poisonous insect buzzed angrily out of space . 
It loitered , circling , close to Tarzan's face . 
The ape man saw and recognized it . 
The virus of its sting spelled death for lesser things than he for him it would mean days of anguish . 
His glittering eyes remained fixed upon Rabba Kega after acknowledging the presence of the winged torture by a single glance . 
He heard and followed the movements of the insect with his keen ears , and then he felt it alight upon his forehead . 
No muscle twitched , for the muscles of such as he are the servants of the brain . 
Down across his face crept the horrid thing over nose and lips and chin . 
Upon his throat it paused , and turning , retraced its steps . 
Now not even his eyes moved . 
So motionless he crouched that only death might counterpart his movelessness . 
The insect crawled upward over the nut brown cheek and stopped with its antennae brushing the lashes of his lower lid . 
You or I would have started back , closing our eyes and striking at the thing but you and I are the slaves , not the masters of our nerves . 
Had the thing crawled upon the eyeball of the ape man , it is believable that he could yet have remained wide eyed and rigid but it did not . 
For a moment it loitered there close to the lower lid , then it rose and buzzed away . 
Down toward Rabba Kega it buzzed and the black man heard it , saw it , struck at it , and was stung upon the cheek before he killed it . 
And as Rabba Kega turned , a lithe figure shot outward and downward from the tree above upon his broad shoulders . 
The impact of the springing creature carried Rabba Kega to the ground . 
He felt strong jaws close upon his neck , and when he tried to scream , steel fingers throttled his throat . 
The powerful black warrior struggled to free himself but he was as a child in the grip of his adversary . 
Presently Tarzan released his grip upon the other's throat but each time that Rabba Kega essayed a scream , the cruel fingers choked him painfully . 
At last the warrior desisted . 
Then Tarzan half rose and kneeled upon his victim's back , and when Rabba Kega struggled to arise , the ape man pushed his face down into the dirt of the trail . 
Not until he came to his feet did Rabba Kega obtain a square look at his assailant . 
Possibly the devil god did not intend to kill him after all . 
Rabba Kega saw that the bait was gone , though there was no lion within the cage , nor was the door dropped . 
He saw and he was filled with wonder not unmixed with apprehension . 
It entered his dull brain that in some way this combination of circumstances had a connection with his presence there as the prisoner of the white devil god . 
Tarzan pushed him roughly into the cage , and in another moment Rabba Kega understood . 
Cold sweat broke from every pore of his body he trembled as with ague for the ape man was binding him securely in the very spot the kid had previously occupied . 
Now could the witch doctor but roll his eyes and sweat . 
The ape man went first to the spot where he had cached the body of the kid . 
Digging it up , he ascended into a tree and proceeded to satisfy his hunger . 
The other beasts might wade in and drink stagnant water but not Tarzan of the Apes . 
In such matters he was fastidious . 
From his hands he washed every trace of the repugnant scent of the Gomangani , and from his face the blood of the kid . 
Rising , he stretched himself not unlike some huge , lazy cat , climbed into a near by tree and fell asleep . 
When he awoke it was dark , though a faint luminosity still tinged the western heavens . 
A lion moaned and coughed as it strode through the jungle toward water . 
It was approaching the drinking hole . 
Tarzan grinned sleepily , changed his position and fell asleep again . 
When the blacks of Mbonga , the chief , reached their village they discovered that Rabba Kega was not among them . 
They did not love the witch doctor . 
Love and fear seldom are playmates but a warrior is a warrior , and so Mbonga organized a searching party . 
That his own grief was not unassuagable might have been gathered from the fact that he remained at home and went to sleep . 
When the searchers returned empty handed , Mbonga was wroth but when he saw the great store of honey they brought with them his rage subsided . 
Tonight the women of the old witch doctor would moan and howl . 
Tomorrow he would be forgotten . 
Such is life , such is fame , such is power in the center of the world's highest civilization , or in the depths of the black , primeval jungle . 
Always , everywhere , man is man , nor has he altered greatly beneath his veneer since he scurried into a hole between two rocks to escape the tyrannosaurus six million years ago . 
The morning following the disappearance of Rabba Kega , the warriors set out with Mbonga , the chief , to examine the trap they had set for Numa . 
Yes ! There he was , a great , magnificent specimen a huge , black maned lion . 
The warriors were frantic with delight . 
They drew back in terror at the sight within the cage the mauled and mutilated corpse of what had , yesterday , been Rabba Kega , the witch doctor . 
From his perch in a near by tree Tarzan of the Apes , Lord Greystoke , looked down upon the black warriors and grinned . 
Once again his self pride in his ability as a practical joker asserted itself . 
After a few moments of terror , the blacks came closer to the cage , rage taking the place of fear rage and curiosity . 
How had Rabba Kega happened to be in the cage ? Where was the kid ? There was no sign nor remnant of the original bait . 
They looked closely and they saw , to their horror , that the corpse of their erstwhile fellow was bound with the very cord with which they had secured the kid . 
Who could have done this thing ? They looked at one another . 
Tubuto was the first to speak . 
He had come hopefully out with the expedition that morning . 
Somewhere he might find evidence of the death of Rabba Kega . 
Now he had found it , and he was the first to find an explanation . 
The white devil god , he whispered . 
And Tarzan sat in his tree and hugged himself . 
It was a subdued and thoughtful company which dragged the captive lion along the broad elephant path back to the village of Mbonga , the chief . 
And it was with a sigh of relief that they finally rolled it into the village and closed the gates behind them . 
From a tree overhanging the palisade , Tarzan watched all that passed within the village . 
He saw the frenzied women tantalizing the great lion with sticks and stones . 
The cruelty of the blacks toward a captive always induced in Tarzan a feeling of angry contempt for the Gomangani . 
Had he attempted to analyze this feeling he would have found it difficult , for during all his life he had been accustomed to sights of suffering and cruelty . 
He , himself , was cruel . 
All the beasts of the jungle were cruel but the cruelty of the blacks was of a different order . 
It was the cruelty of wanton torture of the helpless , while the cruelty of Tarzan and the other beasts was the cruelty of necessity or of passion . 
As he squatted there watching the proceeding beneath him , he saw the warriors seize upon the cage once more and drag it between two huts . 
Tarzan knew that it would remain there now until evening , and that the blacks were planning a feast and orgy in celebration of their capture . 
Now Tarzan preferred to bait the blacks in as theatric a manner as his fertile imagination could evolve . 
In the meantime , he hoped , an idea adequate to the possibilities of the various factors at hand would occur to him . 
Nor was it long before one did . 
He had swung off through the jungle to search for food when the plan came to him . 
As was his wont , he alighted in the midst of the little band without announcing his approach save by a hideous scream just as he sprang from a branch above them . 
He saw that Numa was still alive and that the guards were even dozing beside the cage . 
Nor was it long after dark before the festivities commenced . 
The dancer was painted and armed for the hunt and his movements and gestures suggested the search for the spoor of game . 
Bending low , sometimes resting for a moment on one knee , he searched the ground for signs of the quarry again he poised , statuesque , listening . 
The warrior was young and lithe and graceful he was full muscled and arrow straight . 
The firelight glistened upon his ebon body and brought out into bold relief the grotesque designs painted upon his face , breasts , and abdomen . 
Presently he bent low to the earth , then leaped high in air . 
Every line of face and body showed that he had struck the scent . 
Immediately he leaped toward the circle of warriors about him , telling them of his find and summoning them to the hunt . 
It was all in pantomime but so truly done that even Tarzan could follow it all to the least detail . 
He saw the other warriors grasp their hunting spears and leap to their feet to join in the graceful , stealthy stalking dance . 
It was very interesting but Tarzan realized that if he was to carry his design to a successful conclusion he must act quickly . 
The cage was now unguarded , the two warriors having left it to take their places among the other dancers . 
Tarzan saw that the blacks had now worked themselves to a proper pitch of nervous excitement to be ripe for the lion . 
In a moment the ring of spectators would break at a point nearest the caged lion and the victim would be rolled into the center of the circle . 
It was for this moment that Tarzan waited . 
At the same instant Tarzan gave voice to the low , couching roar of an angry lion and slunk slowly forward through the open lane toward the frenzied dancers . 
A woman saw him first and screamed . 
Instantly there was a panic in the immediate vicinity of the ape man . 
With another roar , Tarzan moved forward . 
The dancing warriors paused but an instant . 
They had been hunting a lion securely housed within a strong cage , and now that he was at liberty among them , an entirely different aspect was placed upon the matter . 
Their nerves were not attuned to this emergency . 
Nor did he wish to be left thus long alone . 
It would not comport with his scheme . 
For an instant the blacks were too astonished to act . 
They saw him turn then and walk back into the shadows at the far end of the village . 
Not until then did they gain courage to pursue him , and when they had come in force , with brandished spears and loud war cries , the quarry was gone . 
Not an instant did Tarzan pause in the tree . 
The warriors , returning from a futile search for Tarzan , saw him step into the firelight . 
Ah ! there was the devil god again , up to his old trick . 
As one they rushed forward with raised spears . 
The women and the children came from the huts to witness the slaying of the devil god . 
The lion turned blazing eyes upon them and then swung about toward the advancing warriors . 
With shouts of savage joy and triumph they came toward him , menacing him with their spears . 
The devil god was theirs ! And then , with a frightful roar , Numa , the lion , charged . 
The men of Mbonga , the chief , met Numa with ready spears and screams of raillery . 
Afraid ? Not he ! He laughed as Numa bore down upon him he laughed and couched his spear , setting the point for the broad breast . 
And then the lion was upon him . 
A great paw swept away the heavy war spear , splintering it as the hand of man might splinter a dry twig . 
Down went the black , his skull crushed by another blow . 
And then the lion was in the midst of the warriors , clawing and tearing to right and left . 
Not for long did they stand their ground but a dozen men were mauled before the others made good their escape from those frightful talons and gleaming fangs . 
In terror the villagers fled hither and thither . 
No hut seemed a sufficiently secure asylum with Numa ranging within the palisade . 
From one to another fled the frightened blacks , while in the center of the village Numa stood glaring and growling above his kills . 
At last a tribesman flung wide the gates of the village and sought safety amid the branches of the forest trees beyond . 
Like sheep his fellows followed him , until the lion and his dead remained alone in the village . 
They saw and shuddered , and from another tree Tarzan of the Apes saw and smiled . 
A full hour elapsed after the lion had disappeared with his feast before the blacks ventured down from the trees and returned to their village . 
Wide eyes rolled from side to side , and naked flesh contracted more to the chill of fear than to the chill of the jungle night . 
It was he all the time , murmured one . 
It was the devil god . 
He changed himself from a lion to a man , and back again into a lion , whispered another . 
And he dragged Mweeza into the forest and is eating him , said a third , shuddering . 
We are no longer safe here , wailed a fourth . 
Let us take our belongings and search for another village site far from the haunts of the wicked devil god . 
It was night , and Tarzan was abroad in the jungle Tarzan , the ape man mighty fighter , mighty hunter . 
Why he swung through the dark shadows of the somber forest he could not have told you . 
The jungle which is presided over by Kudu , the sun , is a very different jungle from that of Goro , the moon . 
The diurnal jungle has its own aspect its own lights and shades , its own birds , its own blooms , its own beasts its noises are the noises of the day . 
Because of these differences Tarzan loved to investigate the jungle by night . 
Tonight he had swung a wide circle toward the east first and then toward the south , and now he was rounding back again into the north . 
His eyes , his ears and his keen nostrils were ever on the alert . 
These sounds often caused Tarzan profound speculation . 
They baffled him because he thought that he knew his jungle so well that there could be nothing within it unfamiliar to him . 
And what more natural that eventually he came to attribute to the sun and the moon personalities as real as his own ? The sun was a living creature and ruled the day . 
The moon , endowed with brains and miraculous powers , ruled the night . 
As Tarzan swung north again upon his wide circle the scent of the Gomangani came to his nostrils , mixed with the acrid odor of wood smoke . 
The ape man moved quickly in the direction from which the scent was borne down to him upon the gentle night wind . 
It was evidently a hunting party from the village of Mbonga , the chief , caught out in the jungle after dark . 
In a rude circle about them they had constructed a thorn boma which , with the aid of the fire , they apparently hoped would discourage the advances of the larger carnivora . 
There were other creatures , too , in the shadows beyond the firelight . 
Tarzan could see their yellow eyes flaming there . 
The blacks saw them and shivered . 
Then one arose and grasping a burning branch from the fire hurled it at the eyes , which immediately disappeared . 
The black sat down again . 
Tarzan watched and saw that it was several minutes before the eyes began to reappear in twos and fours . 
Then came Numa , the lion , and Sabor , his mate . 
The other eyes scattered to right and left before the menacing growls of the great cats , and then the huge orbs of the man eaters flamed alone out of the darkness . 
He saw a new reason for the nightly fires maintained by the blacks a reason in addition to those connected with warmth and light and cooking . 
The beasts of the jungle feared fire , and so fire was , in a measure , a protection from them . 
Tarzan himself knew a certain awe of fire . 
Once he had , in investigating an abandoned fire in the village of the blacks , picked up a live coal . 
Since then he had maintained a respectful distance from such fires as he had seen . 
For a few minutes after the black hurled the firebrand no eyes appeared , though Tarzan could hear the soft padding of feet all about him . 
Almost instantly they turned and began circling the boma , their eyes turning constantly toward the firelight , while low , throaty growls evidenced their increasing displeasure . 
Beyond the lions glowed the flaming eyes of the lesser satellites , until the black jungle was shot all around the black men's camp with little spots of fire . 
Again and again the black warrior hurled his puny brands at the two big cats but Tarzan noticed that Numa paid little or no attention to them after the first few retreats . 
Seizing a blazing branch the man cast it straight into the face of the lion . 
There was an angry roar , followed by a swift charge . 
Numa was out of the boma almost as soon as he was inside it but as he went back over the low thorn wall , he took a screaming negro with him . 
Presently Numa reappeared in the firelight . 
He made a second trip into the boma and the former grisly tragedy was reenacted with another howling victim . 
Tarzan rose and stretched lazily . 
The entertainment was beginning to bore him . 
He yawned and turned upon his way toward the clearing where the tribe would be sleeping in the encircling trees . 
Yet even when he had found his familiar crotch and curled himself for slumber , he felt no desire to sleep . 
For a long time he lay awake thinking and dreaming . 
He looked up into the heavens and watched the moon and the stars . 
He wondered what they were and what power kept them from falling . 
His was an inquisitive mind . 
Always he had been full of questions concerning all that passed around him but there never had been one to answer his questions . 
In childhood he had wanted to KNOW , and , denied almost all knowledge , he still , in manhood , was filled with the great , unsatisfied curiosity of a child . 
He was never quite content merely to perceive that things happened he desired to know WHY they happened . 
He wanted to know what made things go . 
The secret of life interested him immensely . 
The miracle of death he could not quite fathom . 
Upon innumerable occasions he had investigated the internal mechanism of his kills , and once or twice he had opened the chest cavity of victims in time to see the heart still pumping . 
And so he had come to think of the heart , or , as he called it , the red thing that breathes , as the seat and origin of life . 
The brain and its functionings he did not comprehend at all . 
That his sense perceptions were transmitted to his brain and there translated , classified , and labeled was something quite beyond him . 
He thought that his fingers knew when they touched something , that his eyes knew when they saw , his ears when they heard , his nose when it scented . 
He considered his throat , epidermis , and the hairs of his head as the three principal seats of emotion . 
To Tarzan these things were wonders . 
They appealed to his intellect and to his imagination . 
He often talked to them , as he talked to Goro , the moon , and Kudu , the sun , and always was he disappointed that they did not reply . 
He asked them questions but they could not answer , though he knew that the whispering of the leaves was the language of the leaves they talked with one another . 
The wind he attributed to the trees and grasses . 
He thought that they swayed themselves to and fro , creating the wind . 
In no other way could he account for this phenomenon . 
The rain he finally attributed to the stars , the moon , and the sun but his hypothesis was entirely unlovely and unpoetical . 
Tonight as Tarzan lay thinking , there sprang to his fertile imagination an explanation of the stars and the moon . 
He became quite excited about it . 
Taug was sleeping in a nearby crotch . 
Tarzan swung over beside him . 
Instantly the great bull was awake and bristling , sensing danger from the nocturnal summons . 
Look , Taug ! exclaimed Tarzan , pointing toward the stars . 
See the eyes of Numa and Sabor , of Sheeta and Dango . 
They wait around Goro to leap in upon him for their kill . 
See the eyes and the nose and the mouth of Goro . 
And the light that shines upon his face is the light of the great fire he has built to frighten away Numa and Sabor and Dango and Sheeta . 
All about him are the eyes , Taug , you can see them ! But they do not come very close to the fire there are few eyes close to Goro . 
They fear the fire ! It is the fire that saves Goro from Numa . 
Taug looked stupidly at the heavens and then at Tarzan . 
A meteor fell , blazing a flaming way through the sky . 
Goro has thrown a burning branch at Numa . 
Numa is down below , he said . 
Numa does not hunt above the trees . 
To Taug they were as the gorgeous jungle blooms he could not eat them and so he ignored them . 
Taug fidgeted and was nervous . 
If Goro should be eaten by Numa there could be no more Dum Dums . 
Taug was overwhelmed by the thought . 
He glanced at Tarzan half fearfully . 
Why was his friend so different from the others of the tribe ? No one else whom Taug ever had known had had such queer thoughts as Tarzan . 
Tarzan it was who had freed him from the blacks at the very time that Taug had thought Tarzan wanted Teeka . 
It was Tarzan who had saved Taug's little balu from death . 
It was Tarzan who had conceived and carried out the plan to pursue Teeka's abductor and rescue the stolen one . 
He knew it and Tarzan knew it but of such things apes do not speak their vocabulary , for the finer instincts , consisting more of actions than words . 
But now Taug was worried , and he fell asleep again still thinking of the strange words of his fellow . 
To the apes all large things in nature are male , and so Goro , being the largest creature in the heavens by night , was , to them , a bull . 
They did not know that Tarzan had roped the savage beast and tied him to a tree before he came to earth and leaped about before the rearing cat , to tantalize him . 
Tarzan is not an ape , said Gunto . 
He will bring Numa to eat us , as he is bringing him to eat Goro . 
Kill Tarzan ! First you will kill Taug , he said , and lumbered away to search for food . 
But others joined the plotters . 
They thought of many things which Tarzan had done things which apes did not do and could not understand . 
Among them was Teeka , listening with all her ears but her voice was not raised in furtherance of the plan . 
She found Taug , though , and told him what the others were planning , and the great bull stamped upon the ground and roared . 
In an instant he seemed to have forgotten his rage against the enemies of his friend but such is the mind of an ape . 
Several miles away Tarzan of the Apes lolled upon the broad head of Tantor , the elephant . 
He scratched beneath the great ears with the point of a sharp stick , and he talked to the huge pachyderm of everything which filled his black thatched head . 
Little , or nothing , of what he said did Tantor understand but Tantor is a good listener . 
Swaying from side to side he stood there enjoying the companionship of his friend , the friend he loved , and absorbing the delicious sensations of the scratching . 
The elephant caught the scent of the lion , borne to him by an eddying breeze , and lifting his trunk trumpeted loudly . 
Tarzan stretched back luxuriously , lying supine at full length along the rough hide . 
Flies swarmed about his face but with a leafy branch torn from a tree he lazily brushed them away . 
Tantor , he said , it is good to be alive . 
It is good to lie in the cool shadows . 
It is good to look upon the green trees and the bright colors of the flowers upon everything which Bulamutumumo has put here for us . 
He provides for each the food that each likes best . 
All that He asks is that we be strong enough or cunning enough to go forth and take it . 
Yes , Tantor , it is good to live . 
I should hate to die . 
Tantor made a little sound in his throat and curled his trunk upward that he might caress the ape man's cheek with the finger at its tip . 
Tantor , said Tarzan presently , turn and feed in the direction of the tribe of Kerchak , the great ape , that Tarzan may ride home upon your head without walking . 
The tusker turned and moved slowly off along a broad , tree arched trail , pausing occasionally to pluck a tender branch , or strip the edible bark from an adjacent tree . 
Tarzan sprawled face downward upon the beast's head and back , his legs hanging on either side , his head supported by his open palms , his elbows resting on the broad cranium . 
And thus they made their leisurely way toward the gathering place of the tribe . 
Yet he passed beneath the southernmost sentry that was posted in a great tree commanding the trail from the south . 
The black man halted at the first cry and looked about him . 
But Bulabantu was no coward . 
He would sell his life dearly , would Bulabantu , under chief of the village of Mbonga , the chief . 
Tarzan and Tantor were but a short distance away when the first cry of the sentry rang out through the quiet jungle . 
When he arrived he saw a dozen bulls circling a single Gomangani . 
With a blood curdling scream Tarzan sprang to the attack . 
He hated the blacks even more than did the apes , and here was an opportunity for a kill in the open . 
What had the Gomangani done ? Had he slain one of the tribe ? Tarzan asked the nearest ape . 
No , the Gomangani had harmed none . 
Gozan , being on watch , had seen him coming through the forest and had warned the tribe that was all . 
He recognized the man instantly . 
Only the night before he had seen him facing the eyes in the dark , while his fellows groveled in the dirt at his feet , too terrified even to defend themselves . 
Here was a brave man , and Tarzan had deep admiration for bravery . 
Even his hatred of the blacks was not so strong a passion as his love of courage . 
He turned to the apes . 
Go back to your feeding , he said , and let this Gomangani go his way in peace . 
He has not harmed us , and last night I saw him fighting Numa and Sabor with fire , alone in the jungle . 
Why should we kill one who is brave and who has not attacked us ? Let him go . 
Kill the Gomangani ! cried one . 
roared another , kill the Gomangani and the Tarmangani as well . 
Kill the white ape ! screamed Gozan , he is no ape at all but a Gomangani with his skin off . 
Kill Tarzan ! bellowed Gunto . 
Kill ! Kill ! Kill ! The bulls were now indeed working themselves into the frenzy of slaughter but against Tarzan rather than the black man . 
A shaggy form charged through them , hurling those it came in contact with to one side as a strong man might scatter children . 
It was Taug great , savage Taug . 
Who says 'kill Tarzan' ? he demanded . 
Who kills Tarzan must kill Taug , too . 
Who can kill Taug ? Taug will tear your insides from you and feed them to Dango . 
We can kill you all , replied Gunto . 
There are many of us and few of you , and he was right . 
Tarzan knew that he was right . 
Taug knew it but neither would admit such a possibility . 
It is not the way of bull apes . 
I am Tarzan , cried the ape man . 
In all the jungle none so great as Tarzan . 
Then , one by one , the opposing bulls recounted their virtues and their prowess . 
And all the time the combatants came closer and closer to one another . 
Thus do the bulls work themselves to the proper pitch before engaging in battle . 
Gunto came , stiff legged , close to Tarzan and sniffed at him , with bared fangs . 
Tarzan rumbled forth a low , menacing growl . 
They might repeat these tactics a dozen times but sooner or later one bull would close with another and then the whole hideous pack would be tearing and rending at their prey . 
Bulabantu , the black man , had stood wide eyed in wonder from the moment he had seen Tarzan approaching through the apes . 
He had heard much of this devil god who ran with the hairy tree people but never before had he seen him in full daylight . 
He knew that Tarzan had once spared the life of Mbonga , the chief , and that he had succored Tibo , and Tibo's mother , Momaya . 
Gunto and the others were slowly forcing Tarzan and Taug back toward Bulabantu . 
The ape man thought of his words with Tantor just a short time before Yes , Tantor , it is good to live . 
I should hate to die . 
And now he knew that he was about to die , for the temper of the great bulls was mounting rapidly against him . 
Always had many of them hated him , and all were suspicious of him . 
They knew he was different . 
Tarzan knew it too but he was glad that he was he was a MAN that he had learned from his picture books , and he was very proud of the distinction . 
Presently , though , he would be a dead man . 
Gunto was preparing to charge . 
He knew that the balance of the bulls would charge with Gunto . 
Then it would soon be over . 
Something moved among the verdure at the opposite side of the clearing . 
Tarzan saw it just as Gunto , with the terrifying cry of a challenging ape , sprang forward . 
Tarzan voiced a peculiar call and then crouched to meet the assault . 
Simultaneously a huge bulk broke into the clearing from the jungle behind the charging bulls . 
The trumpeting of a mad tusker rose shrill above the cries of the anthropoids , as Tantor , the elephant , dashed swiftly across the clearing to the aid of his friend . 
Gunto never closed upon the ape man , nor did a fang enter flesh upon either side . 
The terrific reverberation of Tantor's challenge sent the bulls scurrying to the trees , jabbering and scolding . 
Taug raced off with them . 
Only Tarzan and Bulabantu remained . 
But it was a surprised Gomangani who saw the mighty elephant come to a sudden halt in front of the ape man and caress him with his long , sinuous trunk . 
Tarzan turned toward the black man . 
Go ! he said in the language of the apes , and pointed in the direction of the village of Mbonga . 
Bulabantu understood the gesture , if not the word , nor did he lose time in obeying . 
Tarzan stood watching him until he had disappeared . 
He knew that the apes would not follow . 
Then he said to the elephant Pick me up ! and the tusker swung him lightly to his head . 
Tarzan goes to his lair by the big water , shouted the ape man to the apes in the trees . 
All of you are more foolish than Manu , except Taug and Teeka . 
Taug and Teeka may come to see Tarzan but the others must keep away . 
Tarzan is done with the tribe of Kerchak . 
He prodded Tantor with a calloused toe and the big beast swung off across the clearing , the apes watching them until they were swallowed up by the jungle . 
Before the night fell Taug killed Gunto , picking a quarrel with him over his attack upon Tarzan . 
For a moon the tribe saw nothing of Tarzan of the Apes . 
Many of them probably never gave him a thought but there were those who missed him more than Tarzan imagined . 
Taug and Teeka often wished that he was back , and Taug determined a dozen times to go and visit Tarzan in his seaside lair but first one thing and then another interfered . 
The more he thought about this matter the more perturbed he became . 
And then a strange thing happened . 
Even as Taug looked at Goro , he saw a portion of one edge disappear , precisely as though something was gnawing upon it . 
Larger and larger became the hole in the side of Goro . 
With a scream , Taug leaped to his feet . 
His frenzied Kreeg ahs ! brought the terrified tribe screaming and chattering toward him . 
Look ! cried Taug , pointing at the moon . 
Look ! It is as Tarzan said . 
Numa has sprung through the fires and is devouring Goro . 
You called Tarzan names and drove him from the tribe now see how wise he was . 
Let one of you who hated Tarzan go to Goro's aid . 
See the eyes in the dark jungle all about Goro . 
He is in danger and none can help him none except Tarzan . 
Soon Goro will be devoured by Numa and we shall have no more light after Kudu seeks his lair . 
How shall we dance the Dum Dum without the light of Goro ? The apes trembled and whimpered . 
Any manifestation of the powers of nature always filled them with terror , for they could not understand . 
Go and bring Tarzan , cried one , and then they all took up the cry of Tarzan ! Bring Tarzan ! He will save Goro . 
And as the tribe waited they watched the slow devouring of the moon . 
Already Numa had eaten out a great semicircular piece . 
At that rate Goro would be entirely gone before Kudu came again . 
The apes trembled at the thought of perpetual darkness by night . 
Restlessly they moved here and there among the branches of trees , watching Numa of the skies at his deadly feast , and listening for the coming of Taug with Tarzan . 
The ape man wasted no time in idle words . 
Up into a great tree he clambered , higher and higher until he stood swaying upon a small limb which bent low beneath his weight . 
Here he had a clear and unobstructed view of the heavens . 
He saw Goro and the inroads which the hungry Numa had made into his shining surface . 
Raising his face to the moon , Tarzan shrilled forth his hideous challenge . 
Faintly and from afar came the roar of an answering lion . 
Numa of the skies had answered Tarzan . 
There was a loud twang as the released bolt shot into the dark heavens . 
Again and again did Tarzan of the Apes launch his arrows at Numa , and all the while the apes of the tribe of Kerchak huddled together in terror . 
At last came a cry from Taug . 
Look ! Look ! he screamed . 
