If you do not find it credible you will at least be as one with me in acknowledging that it is unique , remarkable , and interesting . 
In stature he was above the average height his eyes were gray , his features regular and strong his carriage that of perfect , robust health influenced by his years of army training . 
When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled . 
Alice Rutherford for scarce a three months , and it was the thought of taking this fair young girl into the dangers and isolation of tropical Africa that appalled him . 
For her sake he would have refused the appointment , but she would not have it so . 
Instead she insisted that he accept , and , indeed , take her with him . 
There were mothers and brothers and sisters , and aunts and cousins to express various opinions on the subject , but as to what they severally advised history is silent . 
We know only that on a bright May morning in , John , Lord Greystoke , and Lady Alice sailed from Dover on their way to Africa . 
A month later they arrived at Freetown where they chartered a small sailing vessel , the Fuwalda , which was to bear them to their final destination . 
And here John , Lord Greystoke , and Lady Alice , his wife , vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men . 
The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule . 
Her officers were swarthy bullies , hating and hated by their crew . 
The captain , while a competent seaman , was a brute in his treatment of his men . 
Two sailors were washing down the decks of the Fuwalda , the first mate was on duty , and the captain had stopped to speak with John Clayton and Lady Alice . 
The men were working backwards toward the little party who were facing away from the sailors . 
Closer and closer they came , until one of them was directly behind the captain . 
In another moment he would have passed by and this strange narrative would never have been recorded . 
For an instant the scene was ludicrous but only for an instant . 
The man was small and rather old , so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated . 
The other seaman , however , was neither old nor small a huge bear of a man , with fierce black mustachios , and a great bull neck set between massive shoulders . 
As he saw his mate go down he crouched , and , with a low snarl , sprang upon the captain crushing him to his knees with a single mighty blow . 
From scarlet the officer's face went white , for this was mutiny and mutiny he had met and subdued before in his brutal career . 
The captain was on the point of making an angry reply , but , thinking better of it , turned on his heel and black and scowling , strode aft . 
He did not care to antagonize an English official , for the Queen's mighty arm wielded a punitive instrument which he could appreciate , and which he feared England's far reaching navy . 
The two sailors picked themselves up , the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise . 
Though the fellow's tone was surly , his words were evidently well meant . 
Ere he had scarce finished his little speech he had turned and was limping off toward the forecastle with the very apparent intention of forestalling any further conversation . 
They did not see him again for several days , nor did the captain accord them more than the surliest of grunts when he was forced to speak to them . 
There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster . 
John Clayton , Lord Greystoke , did not ask to be transferred to the British man of war . 
What do you mean , my good fellow ? asked Clayton . 
Black Michael's as good as new agin an' 'e's not the bully to stand fer it , not 'e an' mark my word for it , sir . 
You mean , my man , that the crew contemplates mutiny ? asked Clayton . 
Mutiny ! exclaimed the old fellow . 
Mutiny ! They means murder , sir , an' mark my word for it , sir . 
But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there . 
Deuced cheerful outlook , Alice , said Clayton . 
You should warn the captain at once , John . 
Possibly the trouble may yet be averted , she said . 
I suppose I should , but yet from purely selfish motives I am almost prompted to keep a still tongue in my 'ead . 
You have but one duty , John , and that lies in the interest of vested authority . 
If you do not warn the captain you are as much a party to whatever follows as though you had helped to plot and carry it out with your own head and hands . 
You do not understand , dear , replied Clayton . 
It is of you I am thinking there lies my first duty . 
Duty is duty , John , and no amount of sophistries may change it . 
I would be a poor wife for an English lord were I to be responsible for his shirking a plain duty . 
I realize the danger which must follow , but I can face it with you . 
Have it as you will then , Alice , he answered , smiling . 
Maybe we are borrowing trouble . 
Mutiny on the high sea may have been common a hundred years ago , but in this good year it is the least likely of happenings . 
But there goes the captain to his cabin now . 
If I am going to warn him I might as well get the beastly job over for I have little stomach to talk with the brute at all . 
So saying he strolled carelessly in the direction of the companionway through which the captain had passed , and a moment later was knocking at his door . 
Come in , growled the deep tones of that surly officer . 
In short , the men contemplate mutiny and murder . 
It's a lie ! roared the captain . 
And if you have been interfering again with the discipline of this ship , or meddling in affairs that don't concern you you can take the consequences , and be damned . 
I don't care whether you are an English lord or not . 
I'm captain of this here ship , and from now on you keep your meddling nose out of my business . 
Greystoke never turned a hair , but stood eying the excited man with level gaze . 
Captain Billings , he drawled finally , if you will pardon my candor , I might remark that you are something of an ass . 
Well , Alice , said Clayton , as he rejoined his wife , I might have saved my breath . 
The fellow proved most ungrateful . 
Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog . 
He and his blasted old ship may hang , for aught I care and until we are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare . 
And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers . 
I am sorry now that we packed the larger guns and the ammunition with the stuff below . 
They found their quarters in a bad state of disorder . 
Clothing from their open boxes and bags strewed the little apartment , and even their beds had been torn to pieces . 
Evidently someone was more anxious about our belongings than we , said Clayton . 
Let's have a look around , Alice , and see what's missing . 
A thorough search revealed the fact that nothing had been taken but Clayton's two revolvers and the small supply of ammunition he had saved out for them . 
Those are the very things I most wish they had left us , said Clayton , and the fact that they wished for them and them alone is most sinister . 
What are we to do , John ? asked his wife . 
Perhaps you were right in that our best chance lies in maintaining a neutral position . 
Right you are , Alice . 
We'll keep in the middle of the road . 
As they started to straighten up their cabin , Clayton and his wife simultaneously noticed the corner of a piece of paper protruding from beneath the door of their quarters . 
As Clayton stooped to reach for it he was amazed to see it move further into the room , and then he realized that it was being pushed inward by someone from without . 
Quickly and silently he stepped toward the door , but , as he reached for the knob to throw it open , his wife's hand fell upon his wrist . 
No , John , she whispered . 
They do not wish to be seen , and so we cannot afford to see them . 
Do not forget that we are keeping to the middle of the road . 
Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side . 
Thus they stood watching the little bit of white paper until it finally remained at rest upon the floor just inside the door . 
Then Clayton stooped and picked it up . 
It was a bit of grimy , white paper roughly folded into a ragged square . 
Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly , and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task . 
I rather imagine we'll be good , said Clayton with a rueful smile . 
About all we can do is to sit tight and wait for whatever may come . 
The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears . 
Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda , and at their head stood Black Michael . 
Two of their number had gone down before the captain's revolver . 
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants . 
But then the first mate lunged forward upon his face , and at a cry of command from Black Michael the mutineers charged the remaining four . 
The crew had been able to muster but six firearms , so most of them were armed with boat hooks , axes , hatchets and crowbars . 
The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made . 
Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them . 
As the last officer went down he thought it was time that he returned to his wife lest some members of the crew find her alone below . 
As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side . 
How long have you been here , Alice ? Since the beginning , she replied . 
At least , he added , I'm going to ask them . 
Come with me , Alice . 
We must not let them think we expect any but courteous treatment . 
The men had by this time surrounded the dead and wounded officers , and without either partiality or compassion proceeded to throw both living and dead over the sides of the vessel . 
With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying . 
Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons , and with a cry of Here's two more for the fishes , rushed toward them with uplifted ax . 
But Black Michael was even quicker , so that the fellow went down with a bullet in his back before he had taken a half dozen steps . 
D'ye understand ? I'm captain of this ship now , an' what I says goes , he added , turning to Clayton . 
Just keep to yourselves , and nobody'll harm ye , and he looked threateningly on his fellows . 
The Claytons heeded Black Michael's instructions so well that they saw but little of the crew and knew nothing of the plans the men were making . 
Occasionally they heard faint echoes of brawls and quarreling among the mutineers , and on two occasions the vicious bark of firearms rang out on the still air . 
But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats , and , withal held them in fair subjection to his rule . 
On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers , land was sighted by the lookout . 
You'll be all right there for a few months , he explained , and by that time we'll have been able to make an inhabited coast somewhere and scatter a bit . 
Then I'll see that yer gover'ment's notified where you be an' they'll soon send a man o'war to fetch ye off . 
It would be a hard matter to land you in civilization without a lot o' questions being asked , an' none o' us here has any very convincin' answers up our sleeves . 
Clayton remonstrated against the inhumanity of landing them upon an unknown shore to be left to the mercies of savage beasts , and , possibly , still more savage men . 
But his words were of no avail , and only tended to anger Black Michael , so he was forced to desist and make the best he could of a bad situation . 
About three o'clock in the afternoon they came about off a beautiful wooded shore opposite the mouth of what appeared to be a land locked harbor . 
Black Michael sent a small boat filled with men to sound the entrance in an effort to determine if the Fuwalda could be safely worked through the entrance . 
In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin . 
Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still , mirror like surface of the harbor . 
The surrounding shores were beautiful with semitropical verdure , while in the distance the country rose from the ocean in hill and tableland , almost uniformly clothed by primeval forest . 
As darkness settled upon the earth , Clayton and Lady Alice still stood by the ship's rail in silent contemplation of their future abode . 
From the dark shadows of the mighty forest came the wild calls of savage beasts the deep roar of the lion , and , occasionally , the shrill scream of a panther . 
Later in the evening Black Michael joined them long enough to instruct them to make their preparations for landing on the morrow . 
They tried to persuade him to take them to some more hospitable coast near enough to civilization so that they might hope to fall into friendly hands . 
But no pleas , or threats , or promises of reward could move him . 
Ye saved my life once , and in return I'm goin' to spare yours , but that's all I can do . 
The men won't stand for any more , and if we don't get ye landed pretty quick they may even change their minds about giving ye that much show . 
I'll put all yer stuff ashore with ye as well as cookin' utensils an' some old sails for tents , an' enough grub to last ye until ye can find fruit and game . 
With yer guns for protection , ye ought to be able to live here easy enough until help comes . 
But they'll find ye all right . 
After he had left them they went silently below , each wrapped in gloomy forebodings . 
Once out of Black Michael's sight any of the men might strike them down , and still leave Black Michael's conscience clear . 
But it was a merciful Providence which prevented him from foreseeing the hideous reality which awaited them in the grim depths of that gloomy wood . 
Early next morning their numerous chests and boxes were hoisted on deck and lowered to waiting small boats for transportation to shore . 
There was a great quantity and variety of stuff , as the Claytons had expected a possible five to eight years' residence in their new home . 
Thus , in addition to the many necessities they had brought , there were also many luxuries . 
Black Michael was determined that nothing belonging to the Claytons should be left on board . 
Whether out of compassion for them , or in furtherance of his own self interests , it would be difficult to say . 
So zealous was he in his efforts to carry out his intentions that he insisted upon the return of Clayton's revolvers to him by the sailors in whose possession they were . 
And behind them , over the edge of a low ridge , other eyes watched close set , wicked eyes , gleaming beneath shaggy brows . 
As the Fuwalda passed through the narrow entrance to the harbor and out of sight behind a projecting point , Lady Alice threw her arms about Clayton's neck and burst into uncontrolled sobs . 
He did not attempt to check her tears . 
Oh , John , she cried at last , the horror of it . 
Work must be our salvation . 
We must not give ourselves time to think , for in that direction lies madness . 
We must work and wait . 
Hundreds of thousands of years ago our ancestors of the dim and distant past faced the same problems which we must face , possibly in these same primeval forests . 
That we are here today evidences their victory . 
I only hope you are right , John . 
I will do my best to be a brave primeval woman , a fit mate for the primeval man . 
Clayton's first thought was to arrange a sleeping shelter for the night something which might serve to protect them from prowling beasts of prey . 
Across this framework Clayton placed other smaller branches quite close together . 
This platform he paved with the huge fronds of elephant's ear which grew in profusion about them , and over the fronds he laid a great sail folded into several thicknesses . 
Seven feet higher he constructed a similar , though lighter platform to serve as roof , and from the sides of this he suspended the balance of his sailcloth for walls . 
When completed he had a rather snug little nest , to which he carried their blankets and some of the lighter luggage . 
Just before dusk Clayton finished his ladder , and , filling a great basin with water from the near by stream , the two mounted to the comparative safety of their aerial chamber . 
For a moment it stood as though listening and then turned slowly , and melted into the shadows of the jungle . 
No , John , if it was not a man it was some huge and grotesque mockery of man . 
Oh , I am afraid . 
He gathered her in his arms , whispering words of courage and love into her ears . 
Soon after , he lowered the curtain walls , tying them securely to the trees so that , except for a little opening toward the beach , they were entirely enclosed . 
As it was now pitch dark within their tiny aerie they lay down upon their blankets to try to gain , through sleep , a brief respite of forgetfulness . 
Clayton lay facing the opening at the front , a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand . 
Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them . 
Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them . 
Chapter Life and Death Morning found them but little , if at all refreshed , though it was with a feeling of intense relief that they saw the day dawn . 
The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month , though he built but one small room . 
He constructed his cabin of small logs about six inches in diameter , stopping the chinks with clay which he found at the depth of a few feet beneath the surface soil . 
At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach . 
These also he set in clay and when the house had been entirely completed he applied a coating of the clay to the entire outside surface to the thickness of four inches . 
Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin . 
The A shaped roof was thatched with small branches laid close together and over these long jungle grass and palm fronds , with a final coating of clay . 
Here the greatest difficulty confronted Clayton , for he had no means whereby to hang his massive door now that he had built it . 
After two days' work , however , he succeeded in fashioning two massive hardwood hinges , and with these he hung the door so that it opened and closed easily . 
Ever as they fled they cast fearful glances back of them , and finally they stopped near Clayton jabbering excitedly to him as though to warn him of approaching danger . 
At last he saw it , the thing the little monkeys so feared the man brute of which the Claytons had caught occasional fleeting glimpses . 
Clayton was at some distance from the cabin , having come to fell a particularly perfect tree for his building operations . 
He turned and ran toward it , shouting an alarm to his wife to run in and close the great door in case the ape cut off his retreat . 
Close and bolt the door , Alice , cried Clayton . 
I can finish this fellow with my ax . 
But he knew he was facing a horrible death , and so did she . 
The ape was a great bull , weighing probably three hundred pounds . 
His nasty , close set eyes gleamed hatred from beneath his shaggy brows , while his great canine fangs were bared in a horrid snarl as he paused a moment before his prey . 
She had always been afraid of firearms , and would never touch them , but now she rushed toward the ape with the fearlessness of a lioness protecting its young . 
Back , Alice , shouted Clayton , for God's sake , go back . 
But she would not heed , and just then the ape charged , so that Clayton could say no more . 
Throwing Clayton to the ground the beast turned upon his new enemy . 
Almost simultaneously Clayton regained his feet , and without thought of the utter hopelessness of it , he rushed forward to drag the ape from his wife's prostrate form . 
With little or no effort he succeeded , and the great bulk rolled inertly upon the turf before him the ape was dead . 
The bullet had done its work . 
A hasty examination of his wife revealed no marks upon her , and Clayton decided that the huge brute had died the instant he had sprung toward Alice . 
Gently he lifted his wife's still unconscious form , and bore her to the little cabin , but it was fully two hours before she regained consciousness . 
Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension . 
I thought we were no longer in London , but in some horrible place where great beasts attacked us . 
There , there , Alice , he said , stroking her forehead , try to sleep again , and do not worry your head about bad dreams . 
Long since had he given up any hope of rescue , except through accident . 
With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin . 
Skins of lion and panther covered the floor . 
Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls . 
Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers . 
That he had been able to turn his hands at all to such unaccustomed labor was a source of mild wonder to him . 
In his leisure Clayton read , often aloud to his wife , from the store of books he had brought for their new home . 
At other times Clayton wrote in his diary , which he had always been accustomed to keep in French , and in which he recorded the details of their strange life . 
This book he kept locked in a little metal box . 
A year from the day her little son was born Lady Alice passed quietly away in the night . 
So peaceful was her end that it was hours before Clayton could awake to a realization that his wife was dead . 
For a long time no sound broke the deathlike stillness of the jungle midday save the piteous wailing of the tiny man child . 
Chapter The Apes In the forest of the table land a mile back from the ocean old Kerchak the Ape was on a rampage of rage among his people . 
The other males scattered in all directions , but not before the infuriated brute had felt the vertebra of one snap between his great , foaming jaws . 
A luckless young female slipped from an insecure hold upon a high branch and came crashing to the ground almost at Kerchak's feet . 
With low moans , she sat cuddling the body to her nor did Kerchak attempt to molest her . 
With the death of the babe his fit of demoniacal rage passed as suddenly as it had seized him . 
Kerchak was a huge king ape , weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds . 
His awful temper and his mighty strength made him supreme among the little tribe into which he had been born some twenty years before . 
Old Tantor , the elephant , alone of all the wild savage life , feared him not and he alone did Kerchak fear . 
When Tantor trumpeted , the great ape scurried with his fellows high among the trees of the second terrace . 
Notwithstanding her youth , she was large and powerful a splendid , clean limbed animal , with a round , high forehead , which denoted more intelligence than most of her kind possessed . 
So , also , she had a great capacity for mother love and mother sorrow . 
When the tribe saw that Kerchak's rage had ceased they came slowly down from their arboreal retreats and pursued again the various occupations which he had interrupted . 
The young played and frolicked about among the trees and bushes . 
Others , again , searched the surrounding trees for fruit , nuts , small birds , and eggs . 
They had passed an hour or so thus when Kerchak called them together , and , with a word of command to them to follow him , set off toward the sea . 
When they walked it was with a rolling , awkward motion , placing the knuckles of their closed hands upon the ground and swinging their ungainly bodies forward . 
But when the way was through the lower trees they moved more swiftly , swinging from branch to branch with the agility of their smaller cousins , the monkeys . 
And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast . 
It was shortly after noon when they reached a ridge overlooking the beach where below them lay the tiny cottage which was Kerchak's goal . 
Today there was no sign of the man about , and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open . 
Slowly , cautiously , and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin . 
There were no growls , no fierce screams of rage the little black stick had taught them to come quietly lest they awaken it . 
On , on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within . 
Behind him were two males , and then Kala , closely straining the little dead form to her breast . 
Noiselessly Kerchak entered , crouching for the charge and then John Clayton rose with a sudden start and faced them . 
Then hunger closed the gap between them , and the son of an English lord and an English lady nursed at the breast of Kala , the great ape . 
In the meantime the beasts within the cabin were warily examining the contents of this strange lair . 
Once satisfied that Clayton was dead , Kerchak turned his attention to the thing which lay upon the bed , covered by a piece of sailcloth . 
Instead , he walked back and forth along the floor before it , turning his head so that never once did his eyes leave the object of his desire . 
Presently he halted before the rifle . 
Slowly he raised a huge hand until it almost touched the shining barrel , only to withdraw it once more and continue his hurried pacing . 
Again he stopped , and this time succeeded in forcing his reluctant hand to the cold steel , only to snatch it away almost immediately and resume his restless beat . 
Finding that it harmed him not , Kerchak began to examine it closely . 
He felt of it from end to end , peered down the black depths of the muzzle , fingered the sights , the breech , the stock , and finally the trigger . 
During all these operations the apes who had entered sat huddled near the door watching their chief , while those outside strained and crowded to catch a glimpse of what transpired within . 
Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger . 
There was a deafening roar in the little room and the apes at and beyond the door fell over one another in their wild anxiety to escape . 
As he passed through the opening , the front sight of the rifle caught upon the edge of the inswung door with sufficient force to close it tightly after the fleeing ape . 
The cleverly constructed latch which Clayton had made for the door had sprung as Kerchak passed out nor could the apes find means of ingress through the heavily barred windows . 
After roaming about the vicinity for a short time , they started back for the deeper forests and the higher land from whence they had come . 
Those of the apes who attempted to examine Kala's strange baby were repulsed with bared fangs and low menacing growls , accompanied by words of warning from Kala . 
When they assured her that they meant the child no harm she permitted them to come close , but would not allow them to touch her charge . 
It was as though she knew that her baby was frail and delicate and feared lest the rough hands of her fellows might injure the little thing . 
Another thing she did , and which made traveling an onerous trial for her . 
Remembering the death of her own little one , she clung desperately to the new babe , with one hand , whenever they were upon the march . 
The other young rode upon their mothers' backs their little arms tightly clasping the hairy necks before them , while their legs were locked beneath their mothers' armpits . 
She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death , and she would take no further chances with this . 
Chapter The White Ape Tenderly Kala nursed her little waif , wondering silently why it did not gain strength and agility as did the little apes of other mothers . 
Why , it could not even find food alone , and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it . 
Tublat , Kala's husband , was sorely vexed , and but for the female's careful watching would have put the child out of the way . 
He will never be a great ape , he argued . 
Always will you have to carry him and protect him . 
What good will he be to the tribe ? None only a burden . 
Let us leave him quietly sleeping among the tall grasses , that you may bear other and stronger apes to guard us in our old age . 
Never , Broken Nose , replied Kala . 
If I must carry him forever , so be it . 
Though but ten years old he was fully as strong as the average man of thirty , and far more agile than the most practiced athlete ever becomes . 
And day by day his strength was increasing . 
He was nearly ten before he commenced to realize that a great difference existed between himself and his fellows . 
He attempted to obviate this by plastering himself from head to foot with mud , but this dried and fell off . 
Besides it felt so uncomfortable that he quickly decided that he preferred the shame to the discomfort . 
In the higher land which his tribe frequented was a little lake , and it was here that Tarzan first saw his face in the clear , still waters of its bosom . 
It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink . 
As they leaned over , both little faces were mirrored on the placid pool the fierce and terrible features of the ape beside those of the aristocratic scion of an old English house . 
It had been bad enough to be hairless , but to own such a countenance ! He wondered that the other apes could look at him at all . 
He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion . 
Such a generous nose ! Why it spread half across his face ! It certainly must be fine to be so handsome , thought poor little Tarzan . 
Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched Sabor , the huge lioness lashing her tail . 
Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward , noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next . 
Thus she advanced her belly low , almost touching the surface of the ground a great cat preparing to spring upon its prey . 
Now she was within ten feet of the two unsuspecting little playfellows carefully she drew her hind feet well up beneath her body , the great muscles rolling under the beautiful skin . 
So low she was crouching now that she seemed flattened to the earth except for the upward bend of the glossy back as it gathered for the spring . 
No longer the tail lashed quiet and straight behind her it lay . 
An instant she paused thus , as though turned to stone , and then , with an awful scream , she sprang . 
Sabor , the lioness , was a wise hunter . 
Her wild scream was not a warning . 
So far as the ape was concerned , Sabor reasoned correctly . 
The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant , but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing . 
Not so , however , with Tarzan , the man child . 
So the scream of Sabor , the lioness , galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action . 
Before him lay the deep waters of the little lake , behind him certain death a cruel death beneath tearing claws and rending fangs . 
Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst . 
He hated it because he connected it with the chill and discomfort of the torrential rains , and he feared it for the thunder and lightning and wind which accompanied them . 
He could not swim , and the water was very deep but still he lost no particle of that self confidence and resourcefulness which were the badges of his superior being . 
He was much surprised and pleased with this new acquirement which had been so suddenly thrust upon him , but he had no time for thinking much upon it . 
He was now swimming parallel to the bank and there he saw the cruel beast that would have seized him crouching upon the still form of his little playmate . 
The lioness was intently watching Tarzan , evidently expecting him to return to shore , but this the boy had no intention of doing . 
Instead he raised his voice in the call of distress common to his tribe , adding to it the warning which would prevent would be rescuers from running into the clutches of Sabor . 
Almost immediately there came an answer from the distance , and presently forty or fifty great apes swung rapidly and majestically through the trees toward the scene of tragedy . 
In the lead was Kala , for she had recognized the tones of her best beloved , and with her was the mother of the little ape who lay dead beneath cruel Sabor . 
Tarzan now swam to shore and clambered quickly upon dry land . 
The tribe to which he belonged roamed a tract extending , roughly , twenty five miles along the seacoast and some fifty miles inland . 
This they traversed almost continually , occasionally remaining for months in one locality but as they moved through the trees with great speed they often covered the territory in a very few days . 
Two or three might lie cuddled in each other's arms for additional warmth if the night were chill , and thus Tarzan had slept in Kala's arms nightly for all these years . 
When he was disobedient she cuffed him , it is true , but she was never cruel to him , and was more often caressing him than chastising him . 
Tublat , her mate , always hated Tarzan , and on several occasions had come near ending his youthful career . 
His superior intelligence and cunning permitted him to invent a thousand diabolical tricks to add to the burdens of Tublat's life . 
By constant playing and experimenting with these he learned to tie rude knots , and make sliding nooses and with these he and the younger apes amused themselves . 
What Tarzan did they tried to do also , but he alone originated and became proficient . 
One day while playing thus Tarzan had thrown his rope at one of his fleeing companions , retaining the other end in his grasp . 
By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck , bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt . 
Ah , here was a new game , a fine game , thought Tarzan , and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick . 
And thus , by painstaking and continued practice , he learned the art of roping . 
Now , indeed , was the life of Tublat a living nightmare . 
In sleep , upon the march , night or day , he never knew when that quiet noose would slip about his neck and nearly choke the life out of him . 
Kala punished , Tublat swore dire vengeance , and old Kerchak took notice and warned and threatened but all to no avail . 
Tarzan defied them all , and the thin , strong noose continued to settle about Tublat's neck whenever he least expected it . 
The other apes derived unlimited amusement from Tublat's discomfiture , for Broken Nose was a disagreeable old fellow , whom no one liked , anyway . 
In Tarzan's clever little mind many thoughts revolved , and back of these was his divine power of reason . 
But that came in later years . 
Chapter Jungle Battles The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and silent cabin by the little land locked harbor . 
To Tarzan this was always a source of never ending mystery and pleasure . 
His child like imagination pictured wonderful creatures within , and the very impossibility of forcing entrance added a thousandfold to his desire to do so . 
The story of his own connection with the cabin had never been told him . 
On this day , then , he went directly to the door and spent hours examining it and fussing with the hinges , the knob and the latch . 
Finally he stumbled upon the right combination , and the door swung creakingly open before his astonished eyes . 
For some minutes he did not dare venture within , but finally , as his eyes became accustomed to the dim light of the interior he slowly and cautiously entered . 
In the middle of the floor lay a skeleton , every vestige of flesh gone from the bones to which still clung the mildewed and moldered remnants of what had once been clothing . 
Upon the bed lay a similar gruesome thing , but smaller , while in a tiny cradle near by was a third , a wee mite of a skeleton . 
To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did little Tarzan give but passing heed . 
The furnishings and other contents of the room it was which riveted his attention . 
He examined many things minutely strange tools and weapons , books , paper , clothing what little had withstood the ravages of time in the humid atmosphere of the jungle coast . 
He opened chests and cupboards , such as did not baffle his small experience , and in these he found the contents much better preserved . 
Among other things he found a sharp hunting knife , on the keen blade of which he immediately proceeded to cut his finger . 
Undaunted he continued his experiments , finding that he could hack and hew splinters of wood from the table and chairs with this new toy . 
For a long time this amused him , but finally tiring he continued his explorations . 
In a cupboard filled with books he came across one with brightly colored pictures it was a child's illustrated alphabet A is for Archer Who shoots with a bow . 
B is for Boy , His first name is Joe . 
The pictures interested him greatly . 
But nowhere was pictured any of his own people in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak , or Tublat , or Kala . 
It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet , and he was over ten years old . 
So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures . 
Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy , Sabor , the lioness , and further on , coiled Histah , the snake . 
Oh , it was most engrossing ! Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much . 
So absorbed was he that he did not note the approaching dusk , until it was quite upon him and the figures were blurred . 
He had taken scarce a dozen steps toward the jungle when a great form rose up before him from the shadows of a low bush . 
At first he thought it was one of his own people but in another instant he realized that it was Bolgani , the huge gorilla . 
He knew no fear , as we know it his little heart beat the faster but from the excitement and exhilaration of adventure . 
Had the opportunity presented itself he would have escaped , but solely because his judgment told him he was no match for the great thing which confronted him . 
And since reason showed him that successful flight was impossible he met the gorilla squarely and bravely without a tremor of a single muscle , or any sign of panic . 
In fact he met the brute midway in its charge , striking its huge body with his closed fists and as futilely as he had been a fly attacking an elephant . 
As the knife sank deep into its body the gorilla shrieked in pain and rage . 
The gorilla , fighting after the manner of its kind , struck terrific blows with its open hand , and tore the flesh at the boy's throat and chest with its mighty tusks . 
For a moment they rolled upon the ground in the fierce frenzy of combat . 
It was soon discovered that Tarzan was missing , and Tublat was strongly opposed to sending assistance . 
Darkness had now fallen , and an early moon was sending its faint light to cast strange , grotesque shadows among the dense foliage of the forest . 
Here and there the brilliant rays penetrated to earth , but for the most part they only served to accentuate the Stygian blackness of the jungle's depths . 
The cries of the gorilla proclaimed that it was in mortal combat with some other denizen of the fierce wood . 
Suddenly these cries ceased , and the silence of death reigned throughout the jungle . 
With a low cry Kala rushed to Tarzan's side , and gathering the poor , blood covered body to her breast , listened for a sign of life . 
Faintly she heard it the weak beating of the little heart . 
Of medicine or surgery the poor thing knew nothing . 
She could but lick the wounds , and thus she kept them cleansed , that healing nature might the more quickly do her work . 
At first Tarzan would eat nothing , but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever . 
All he craved was water , and this she brought him in the only way she could , bearing it in her own mouth . 
No human mother could have shown more unselfish and sacrificing devotion than did this poor , wild brute for the little orphaned waif whom fate had thrown into her keeping . 
At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend . 
No word of complaint passed his tight set lips , though the pain of his wounds was excruciating . 
A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs , three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla . 
Also , he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents . 
So , early one morning , he set forth alone upon his quest . 
He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat . 
In another moment he was at the cabin , and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered . 
He found that he could close and lock the door from within , and this he did so that there would be no chance of his being molested while at his investigation . 
Among the other books were a primer , some child's readers , numerous picture books , and a great dictionary . 
Beneath the picture were three little bugs BOY . 
And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence . 
Another fact he learned that there were comparatively few individual bugs but these were repeated many times , occasionally alone , but more often in company with others . 
Beneath this picture the bugs appeared as A BOY AND A DOG There they were , the three little bugs which always accompanied the little ape . 
Of the meaning and use of the articles and conjunctions , verbs and adverbs and pronouns he had but the faintest conception . 
He worked so assiduously with this new toy that the table top was soon a mass of scrawly loops and irregular lines and his pencil point worn down to the wood . 
Then he took another pencil , but this time he had a definite object in view . 
He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled over the pages of his books . 
Thus he made a beginning of writing . 
By the time he was seventeen he had learned to read the simple , child's primer and had fully realized the true and wonderful purpose of the little bugs . 
From then on his progress was rapid . 
Pieces of bark and flat leaves and even smooth stretches of bare earth provided him with copy books whereon to scratch with the point of his hunting knife the lessons he was learning . 
Nor did he neglect the sterner duties of life while following the bent of his inclination toward the solving of the mystery of his library . 
He practiced with his rope and played with his sharp knife , which he had learned to keep keen by whetting upon flat stones . 
Occasionally one more ferocious than his fellows would attempt this latter alternative , but none had come yet who could wrest the palm of victory from the fierce and brutal ape . 
Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe . 
They seemed to consider him one of them and yet in some way different . 
The open space was almost circular in shape . 
Here , safe from interruption , the tribe often gathered . 
At length as darkness settled upon the jungle the apes commenced to bestir themselves , and soon they formed a great circle about the earthen drum . 
The females and young squatted in a thin line at the outer periphery of the circle , while just in front of them ranged the adult males . 
Before the drum sat three old females , each armed with a knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length . 
Slowly and softly they began tapping upon the resounding surface of the drum as the first faint rays of the ascending moon silvered the encircling tree tops . 
As the light in the amphitheater increased the females augmented the frequency and force of their blows until presently a wild , rhythmic din pervaded the great jungle for miles in every direction . 
Huge , fierce brutes stopped in their hunting , with up pricked ears and raised heads , to listen to the dull booming that betokened the Dum Dum of the apes . 
As the din of the drum rose to almost deafening volume Kerchak sprang into the open space between the squatting males and the drummers . 
One twice thrice that terrifying cry rang out across the teeming solitude of that unspeakably quick , yet unthinkably dead , world . 
Another male then sprang into the arena , and , repeating the horrid cries of his king , followed stealthily in his wake . 
Another and another followed in quick succession until the jungle reverberated with the now almost ceaseless notes of their bloodthirsty screams . 
It was the challenge and the hunt . 
When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced . 
Tarzan was one of the wild , leaping horde . 
His brown , sweat streaked , muscular body , glistening in the moonlight , shone supple and graceful among the uncouth , awkward , hairy brutes about him . 
As the noise and rapidity of the drumbeats increased the dancers apparently became intoxicated with the wild rhythm and the savage yells . 
Their leaps and bounds increased , their bared fangs dripped saliva , and their lips and breasts were flecked with foam . 
Then , as one , the males rushed headlong upon the thing which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp . 
Tarzan , more than the apes , craved and needed flesh . 
At his side hung the hunting knife of his unknown father in a sheath self fashioned in copy of one he had seen among the pictures of his treasure books . 
So little Tarzan wriggled out from beneath the struggling mass , clutching his grisly prize close to his breast . 
Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old Tublat . 
He had been among the first at the feast , but had retreated with a goodly share to eat in quiet , and was now forcing his way back for more . 
So it was that he spied Tarzan as the boy emerged from the clawing , pushing throng with that hairy forearm hugged firmly to his body . 
Tublat's little , close set , bloodshot , pig eyes shot wicked gleams of hate as they fell upon the object of his loathing . 
In them , too , was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried . 
Up , up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him . 
There he perched , hurling taunts and insults at the raging , foaming beast fifty feet below him . 
And then Tublat went mad . 
In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage . 
He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees . 
Then the great bulls in the center of the arena felt the mighty fangs of their demented fellow , and with one accord they melted into the black shadows of the overhanging forest . 
There was but one in the amphitheater beside Tublat , a belated female running swiftly toward the tree where Tarzan perched , and close behind her came the awful Tublat . 
Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan , waiting the outcome of the race . 
She leaped into the air grasping a low hanging branch , but almost over the head of Tublat , so nearly had he distanced her . 
She should have been safe now but there was a rending , tearing sound , the branch broke and precipitated her full upon the head of Tublat , knocking him to the ground . 
Nothing could have suited the fierce beast better , and with a roar of triumph he leaped upon the little Lord Greystoke . 
But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh . 
A muscular hand shot out and grasped the hairy throat , and another plunged a keen hunting knife a dozen times into the broad breast . 
Like lightning the blows fell , and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him . 
One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe . 
When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them . 
I am Tarzan , he cried . 
I am a great killer . 
Let all respect Tarzan of the Apes and Kala , his mother . 
There be none among you as mighty as Tarzan . 
Looking full into the wicked , red eyes of Kerchak , the young Lord Greystoke beat upon his mighty breast and screamed out once more his shrill cry of defiance . 
Chapter The Tree top Hunter The morning after the Dum Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast . 
The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen , for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead . 
The march was but a leisurely search for food . 
Cabbage palm and gray plum , pisang and scitamine they found in abundance , with wild pineapple , and occasionally small mammals , birds , eggs , reptiles , and insects . 
The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws , or , if too hard , broke by pounding between stones . 
Upon a low hanging branch sat Tarzan directly above the majestic , supple body as it forged silently through the thick jungle . 
He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people . 
The great beast stopped and , turning , eyed the taunting figure above her . 
With back laid ears she looked straight into the eyes of Tarzan of the Apes and sounded her fierce , shrill challenge . 
And from the safety of his overhanging limb the ape child sent back the fearsome answer of his kind . 
For a moment the two eyed each other in silence , and then the great cat turned into the jungle , which swallowed her as the ocean engulfs a tossed pebble . 
But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang . 
He had killed the fierce Tublat , so was he not therefore a mighty fighter ? Now would he track down the crafty Sabor and slay her likewise . 
He would be a mighty hunter , also . 
On this day , however , he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention . 
Suddenly it became as midnight the noises of the jungle ceased the trees stood motionless as though in paralyzed expectancy of some great and imminent disaster . 
All nature waited but not for long . 
Faintly , from a distance , came a low , sad moaning . 
Nearer and nearer it approached , mounting louder and louder in volume . 
The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand . 
Farther and farther toward the ground they inclined , and still there was no sound save the deep and awesome moaning of the wind . 
Then , suddenly , the jungle giants whipped back , lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest . 
A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling , inky clouds above . 
The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge . 
The deluge came all hell broke loose upon the jungle . 
The tribe shivering from the cold rain , huddled at the bases of great trees . 
The lightning , darting and flashing through the blackness , showed wildly waving branches , whipping streamers and bending trunks . 
For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease , and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear . 
In constant danger from falling trunks and branches and paralyzed by the vivid flashing of lightning and the bellowing of thunder they crouched in pitiful misery until the storm passed . 
The end was as sudden as the beginning . 
The wind ceased , the sun shone forth nature smiled once more . 
The dripping leaves and branches , and the moist petals of gorgeous flowers glistened in the splendor of the returning day . 
And , so as Nature forgot , her children forgot also . 
Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright . 
But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES . 
How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor ! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure . 
Tarzan , happily , was uninjured by the fall , alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock . 
Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon . 
Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him . 
He did not want such insignificant game . 
It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme . 
At last came she whom Tarzan sought , with lithe sinews rolling beneath shimmering hide fat and glossy came Sabor , the lioness . 
Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail . 
Her head was high in ever alert attention her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations . 
Nearer and nearer she came to where Tarzan of the Apes crouched upon his limb , the coils of his long rope poised ready in his hand . 
Like a thing of bronze , motionless as death , sat Tarzan . 
One stride beyond she took a second , a third , and then the silent coil shot out above her . 
With a quick jerk Tarzan snapped the noose tight about the glossy throat , and then he dropped the rope and clung to his support with both hands . 
With a bound the startled beast turned into the jungle , but Tarzan was not to lose another rope through the same cause as the first . 
He had learned from experience . 
Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat . 
The weight of old Sabor was immense , and when she braced her huge paws nothing less than Tantor , the elephant , himself , could have budged her . 
The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her . 
Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive . 
For a moment Sabor hung half across the branch , while Tarzan mocked , and hurled twigs and branches at her unprotected face . 
His well laid plan had come to naught , so he sat there screaming at the roaring creature beneath him and making mocking grimaces at it . 
Here he recounted the details of his adventure , with swelling chest and so considerable swagger that he quite impressed even his bitterest enemies , while Kala fairly danced for joy and pride . 
To him life was never monotonous or stale . 
Quick was Sabor , the lioness , and quick were Numa and Sheeta , but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning . 
With Tantor , the elephant , he made friends . 
Many days during these years he spent in the cabin of his father , where still lay , untouched , the bones of his parents and the skeleton of Kala's baby . 
At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves . 
Thus , at eighteen , we find him , an English lordling , who could speak no English , and yet who could read and write his native language . 
High hills shut it off on three sides , the ocean on the fourth . 
It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes . 
Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier . 
But as Tarzan of the Apes sat one day in the cabin of his father delving into the mysteries of a new book , the ancient security of his jungle was broken forever . 
At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung , in single file , over the brow of a low hill . 
In advance were fifty black warriors armed with slender wooden spears with ends hard baked over slow fires , and long bows and poisoned arrows . 
On their backs were oval shields , in their noses huge rings , while from the kinky wool of their heads protruded tufts of gay feathers . 
Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color , and on each breast three concentric circles . 
Their yellow teeth were filed to sharp points , and their great protruding lips added still further to the low and bestial brutishness of their appearance . 
Following them were several hundred women and children , the former bearing upon their heads great burdens of cooking pots , household utensils and ivory . 
In the rear were a hundred warriors , similar in all respects to the advance guard . 
For many days they had gorged themselves on meat , but eventually a stronger body of troops had come and fallen upon their village by night to revenge the death of their comrades . 
But that which meant freedom and the pursuit of happiness to these savage blacks meant consternation and death to many of the wild denizens of their new home . 
Here there were no white men , no soldiers , nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters . 
Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village . 
But one day , Kulonga , a son of the old king , Mbonga , wandered far into the dense mazes to the west . 
Warily he stepped , his slender lance ever ready , his long oval shield firmly grasped in his left hand close to his sleek ebony body . 
Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak . 
Early the next morning the apes were astir , moving through the jungle in search of food . 
The apes scattered by ones , and twos , and threes in all directions , but ever within sound of a signal of alarm . 
For fifty yards before her the trail was straight , and down this leafy tunnel she saw the stealthy advancing figure of a strange and fearful creature . 
Kala did not wait to see more , but , turning , moved rapidly back along the trail . 
She did not run but , after the manner of her kind when not aroused , sought rather to avoid than to escape . 
Close after her came Kulonga . 
He could make a killing and feast well this day . 
On he hurried , his spear poised for the throw . 
At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another straight stretch . 
His spear hand went far back the muscles rolled , lightning like , beneath the sleek hide . 
Out shot the arm , and the spear sped toward Kala . 
It but grazed her side . 
With a cry of rage and pain the she ape turned upon her tormentor . 
In an instant the trees were crashing beneath the weight of her hurrying fellows , swinging rapidly toward the scene of trouble in answer to Kala's scream . 
As she charged , Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness . 
Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid . 
With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe . 
Roaring and shrieking the apes dashed toward Kulonga , but that wary savage was fleeing down the trail like a frightened antelope . 
He knew something of the ferocity of these wild , hairy men , and his one desire was to put as many miles between himself and them as he possibly could . 
They followed him , racing through the trees , for a long distance , but finally one by one they abandoned the chase and returned to the scene of the tragedy . 
None of them had ever seen a man before , other than Tarzan , and so they wondered vaguely what strange manner of creature it might be that had invaded their jungle . 
When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother . 
Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded . 
He roared out his hideous challenge time and again . 
He beat upon his great chest with his clenched fists , and then he fell upon the body of Kala and sobbed out the pitiful sorrowing of his lonely heart . 
To lose the only creature in all his world who ever had manifested love and affection for him was the greatest tragedy he had ever known . 
What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape ! To Tarzan she had been kind , she had been beautiful . 
Upon her he had lavished , unknown to himself , all the reverence and respect and love that a normal English boy feels for his own mother . 
He had never known another , and so to Kala was given , though mutely , all that would have belonged to the fair and lovely Lady Alice had she lived . 
After the first outburst of grief Tarzan controlled himself , and questioning the members of the tribe who had witnessed the killing of Kala he learned all that their meager vocabulary could convey . 
It was enough , however , for his needs . 
Tarzan waited no longer , but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest . 
At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire , and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope . 
In an hour he struck the trail again , and coming to earth examined the soil minutely . 
In the soft mud on the bank of a tiny rivulet he found footprints such as he alone in all the jungle had ever made , but much larger than his . 
Could it be that he was trailing a MAN one of his own race ? There were two sets of imprints pointing in opposite directions . 
So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail . 
Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more , and with swift noiselessness sped along high above the trail . 
He had covered barely a mile when he came upon the black warrior standing in a little open space . 
In his hand was his slender bow to which he had fitted one of his death dealing arrows . 
Opposite him across the little clearing stood Horta , the boar , with lowered head and foam flecked tucks , ready to charge . 
Tarzan looked with wonder upon the strange creature beneath him so like him in form and yet so different in face and color . 
His books had portrayed the NEGRO , but how different had been the dull , dead print to this sleek thing of ebony , pulsing with life . 
But things were commencing to happen below him . 
With a bound the black leaped entirely over the rushing beast and turning with incredible swiftness planted a second arrow in Horta's back . 
Then Kulonga sprang into a near by tree . 
Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more a dozen steps he took , then he staggered and fell upon his side . 
For a moment his muscles stiffened and relaxed convulsively , then he lay still . 
Kulonga came down from his tree . 
The rest he left where it had fallen . 
Tarzan was an interested spectator . 
His desire to kill burned fiercely in his wild breast , but his desire to learn was even greater . 
He would follow this savage creature for a while and know from whence he came . 
He could kill him at his leisure later , when the bow and deadly arrows were laid aside . 
When Kulonga had finished his repast and disappeared beyond a near turning of the path , Tarzan dropped quietly to the ground . 
With his knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta's carcass , but he did not cook them . 
He had seen fire , but only when Ara , the lightning , had destroyed some great tree . 
Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing his food . 
All day Tarzan followed Kulonga , hovering above him in the trees like some malign spirit . 
Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction once at Dango , the hyena , and again at Manu , the monkey . 
In each instance the animal died almost instantly , for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly . 
Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry . 
No , there was something mysterious connected with these tiny slivers of wood which could bring death by a mere scratch . 
He must look into the matter . 
That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes . 
When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared . 
The black warrior was furious and frightened , but more frightened than furious . 
He searched the ground below the tree , and he searched the tree above the ground but there was no sign of either bow or arrows or of the nocturnal marauder . 
His spear he had hurled at Kala and had not recovered and , now that his bow and arrows were gone , he was defenseless except for a single knife . 
His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him . 
That he was not far from home he was certain , so he took the trail at a rapid trot . 
From a great mass of impenetrable foliage a few yards away emerged Tarzan of the Apes to swing quietly in his wake . 
Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked his caches . 
As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled almost over the black's head . 
His rope he now held coiled in his right hand he was almost ready for the kill . 
Tarzan was directly over Kulonga , as he made the discovery . 
The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village . 
So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe . 
Here he fastened the rope securely to a stout branch , and then , descending , plunged his hunting knife into Kulonga's heart . 
Tarzan examined the black minutely , for he had never seen any other human being . 
The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye he appropriated them . 
A copper anklet also took his fancy , and this he transferred to his own leg . 
He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast . 
He marveled at the sharp filed teeth . 
It could have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us . 
Had not his books taught him that he was a man ? And was not The Archer a man , also ? Did men eat men ? Alas , he did not know . 
Why , then , this hesitancy ! Once more he essayed the effort , but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him . 
Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground , removed the noose , and took to the trees again . 
Chapter The Fear Phantom From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation . 
His savage life among the fierce wild brutes of the jungle left no opening for any thought that these could be aught else than enemies . 
Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist . 
He knew nothing of the brotherhood of man . 
All things outside his own tribe were his deadly enemies , with the few exceptions of which Tantor , the elephant , was a marked example . 
And he realized all this without malice or hatred . 
To kill was the law of the wild world he knew . 
His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty . 
That he joyed in killing , and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty . 
And when he killed for revenge , or in self defense , he did that also without hysteria , for it was a very businesslike proceeding which admitted of no levity . 
So it was that now , as he cautiously approached the village of Mbonga , he was quite prepared either to kill or be killed should he be discovered . 
He proceeded with unwonted stealth , for Kulonga had taught him great respect for the little sharp splinters of wood which dealt death so swiftly and unerringly . 
At length he came to a great tree , heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers . 
From this almost impenetrable bower above the village he crouched , looking down upon the scene below him , wondering over every feature of this new , strange life . 
There were naked children running and playing in the village street . 
There were women grinding dried plantain in crude stone mortars , while others were fashioning cakes from the powdered flour . 
Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing , weeding , or gathering . 
All wore strange protruding girdles of dried grass about their hips and many were loaded with brass and copper anklets , armlets and bracelets . 
Around many a dusky neck hung curiously coiled strands of wire , while several were further ornamented by huge nose rings . 
Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures . 
He noticed that the women alone worked . 
Nowhere was there evidence of a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the village . 
Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him . 
Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick , reddish , tarry mass . 
Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated . 
Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles . 
How he should like to have more of those little death dealing slivers . 
If the woman would only leave her work for an instant he could drop down , gather up a handful , and be back in the tree again before she drew three breaths . 
As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing . 
He looked and saw a black warrior standing beneath the very tree in which he had killed the murderer of Kala an hour before . 
The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head . 
Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him . 
The village was in an uproar instantly . 
Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry . 
After them trooped the old men , and the women and children until , in a moment , the village was deserted . 
Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison . 
For a moment he stood motionless , his quick , bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade . 
No one was in sight . 
His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut . 
He would take a look within , thought Tarzan , and so , cautiously , he approached the low thatched building . 
For a moment he stood without , listening intently . 
There was no sound , and he glided into the semi darkness of the interior . 
Weapons hung against the walls long spears , strangely shaped knives , a couple of narrow shields . 
Several human skulls lay upon the floor . 
Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article , hefted the spears , smelled of them , for he saw largely through his sensitive and highly trained nostrils . 
He determined to own one of these long , pointed sticks , but he could not take one on this trip because of the arrows he meant to carry . 
As he took each article from the walls , he placed it in a pile in the center of the room . 
Then he stood back , surveyed his work , and grinned . 
Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke . 
But now he heard , outside , the sounds of many voices , and long mournful howls , and mighty wailing . 
Had he remained too long ? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate . 
The natives were not yet in sight , though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation . 
They must be very near . 
Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows . 
Then he turned to watch the proceeding below , poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first sign of danger . 
The natives filed up the street , four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga . 
Behind trailed the women , uttering strange cries and weird lamentation . 
On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut , the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations . 
Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild , jabbering confusion . 
The others hastened to gather about . 
There was much excited gesticulating , pointing , and chattering then several of the warriors approached and peered within . 
Finally an old fellow with many ornaments of metal about his arms and legs , and a necklace of dried human hands depending upon his chest , entered the hut . 
It was Mbonga , the king , father of Kulonga . 
For a few moments all was silent . 
Then Mbonga emerged , a look of mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance . 
He spoke a few words to the assembled warriors , and in an instant the men were flying through the little village searching minutely every hut and corner within the palisades . 
Scarcely had the search commenced than the overturned cauldron was discovered , and with it the theft of the poisoned arrows . 
Nothing more they found , and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of savages which huddled around their king a few moments later . 
Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place . 
They stood in little groups , talking in low tones , and ever casting affrighted glances behind them from their great rolling eyes . 
Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the great tree . 
There was much in their demeanor which he could not understand , for of superstition he was ignorant , and of fear of any kind he had but a vague conception . 
The sun was high in the heavens . 
Tarzan had not broken fast this day , and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the boar . 
So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into the leafy fastness of the forest . 
It was a well laden Tarzan who dropped from the branches into the midst of the tribe of Kerchak . 
With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and exhibited the spoils of conquest . 
Kerchak grunted and turned away , for he was jealous of this strange member of his band . 
In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan . 
The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn . 
It was during this period that the young English lord found hidden in the back of one of the cupboards in the cabin a small metal box . 
The key was in the lock , and a few moments of investigation and experimentation were rewarded with the successful opening of the receptacle . 
Tarzan examined these all minutely . 
The photograph he liked most of all , for the eyes were smiling , and the face was open and frank . 
The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth , brown hide . 
Tarzan had long since learned the use of the dictionary , but much to his sorrow and perplexity it proved of no avail to him in this emergency . 
Little did he know that this book held between its covers the key to his origin the answer to the strange riddle of his strange life . 
It was the diary of John Clayton , Lord Greystoke kept in French , as had always been his custom . 
At present he had more important business in hand , for his supply of arrows was exhausted , and he must needs journey to the black men's village and renew it . 
Early the following morning he set out , and , traveling rapidly , he came before midday to the clearing . 
For hours he lay awaiting his opportunity to drop down unseen and gather up the arrows for which he had come but nothing now occurred to call the villagers away from their homes . 
The day wore on , and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron . 
Presently the workers in the fields returned . 
The hunting warriors emerged from the forest , and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred . 
Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village . 
Before each hut a woman presided over a boiling stew , while little cakes of plantain , and cassava puddings were to be seen on every hand . 
Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing . 
It was a party of belated hunters returning from the north , and among them they half led , half carried a struggling animal . 
Sheeta , the leopard , alone of all the jungle folk , tortured his prey . 
The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their victims . 
Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways of human beings . 
He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes , and as savage and cruel as Sabor , herself . 
Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem . 
In a larger circle squatted the women , yelling and beating upon drums . 
It reminded Tarzan of the Dum Dum , and so he knew what to expect . 
He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive . 
The Apes did not do such things as that . 
The circle of warriors about the cringing captive drew closer and closer to their prey as they danced in wild and savage abandon to the maddening music of the drums . 
Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim . 
It was the signal for fifty others . 
Eyes , ears , arms and legs were pierced every inch of the poor writhing body that did not cover a vital organ became the target of the cruel lancers . 
The women and children shrieked their delight . 
Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance . 
All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake . 
Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street . 
Quickly he gathered up the arrows all of them this time , for he had brought a number of long fibers to bind them into a bundle . 
Without haste he wrapped them securely , and then , ere he turned to leave , the devil of capriciousness entered his heart . 
He looked about for some hint of a wild prank to play upon these strange , grotesque creatures that they might be again aware of his presence among them . 
Inside all was darkness , but his groping hands soon found the object for which he sought , and without further delay he turned again toward the door . 
He had taken but a step , however , ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without . 
In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut . 
Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall , and his hand sought the long , keen hunting knife of his father . 
The woman came quickly to the center of the hut . 
There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought . 
Evidently it was not in its accustomed place , for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood . 
So close was she now that the ape man felt the animal warmth of her naked body . 
Up went the hunting knife , and then the woman turned to one side and soon a guttural ah proclaimed that her search had at last been successful . 
Immediately she turned and left the hut , and as she passed through the doorway Tarzan saw that she carried a cooking pot in her hand . 
These they were filling with water and placing over a number of fires near the stake where the dying victim now hung , an inert and bloody mass of suffering . 
Choosing a moment when none seemed near , Tarzan hastened to his bundle of arrows beneath the great tree at the end of the village street . 
As on the former occasion he overthrew the cauldron before leaping , sinuous and catlike , into the lower branches of the forest giant . 
Silently he climbed to a great height until he found a point where he could look through a leafy opening upon the scene beneath him . 
The women were now preparing the prisoner for their cooking pots , while the men stood about resting after the fatigue of their mad revel . 
Comparative quiet reigned in the village . 
Tarzan raised aloft the thing he had pilfered from the hut , and , with aim made true by years of fruit and coconut throwing , launched it toward the group of savages . 
Squarely among them it fell , striking one of the warriors full upon the head and felling him to the ground . 
Then it rolled among the women and stopped beside the half butchered thing they were preparing to feast upon . 
All gazed in consternation at it for an instant , and then , with one accord , broke and ran for their huts . 
It was a grinning human skull which looked up at them from the ground . 
The dropping of the thing out of the open sky was a miracle well aimed to work upon their superstitious fears . 
Thus Tarzan of the Apes left them filled with terror at this new manifestation of the presence of some unseen and unearthly evil power which lurked in the forest about their village . 
From then on an offering of food was daily placed below the great tree from whence the arrows had disappeared in an effort to conciliate the mighty one . 
But the seed of fear was deep sown , and had he but known it , Tarzan of the Apes had laid the foundation for much future misery for himself and his tribe . 
That night he slept in the forest not far from the village , and early the next morning set out slowly on his homeward march , hunting as he traveled . 
Tarzan did not attempt to escape . 
He welcomed the opportunity for which , in fact , he had been searching for days past , now that he was armed with something more than a rope of grass . 
Quickly he unslung his bow and fitted a well daubed arrow , and as Sabor sprang , the tiny missile leaped to meet her in mid air . 
At the same instant Tarzan of the Apes jumped to one side , and as the great cat struck the ground beyond him another death tipped arrow sunk deep into Sabor's loin . 
Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy , but with gleaming knife drawn and striking home . 
For a moment they lay there , and then Tarzan realized that the inert mass lying upon him was beyond power ever again to injure man or ape . 
With difficulty he wriggled from beneath the great weight , and as he stood erect and gazed down upon the trophy of his skill , a mighty wave of exultation swept over him . 
The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean . 
Birds fell still , and the larger animals and beasts of prey slunk stealthily away , for few there were of all the jungle who sought for trouble with the great anthropoids . 
And in London another Lord Greystoke was speaking to HIS kind in the House of Lords , but none trembled at the sound of his soft voice . 
First , however , he must remove the hide , for it was as much for this as for any other purpose that he had desired to destroy Sabor . 
Deftly he removed the great pelt , for he had practiced often on smaller animals . 
What with loss of sleep , arduous exercise , and a full belly , Tarzan of the Apes slept the sun around , awakening about noon of the following day . 
He straightway repaired to the carcass of Sabor , but was angered to find the bones picked clean by other hungry denizens of the jungle . 
So quickly the virus worked that at the end of a dozen leaps the deer plunged headlong into the undergrowth , dead . 
Again did Tarzan feast well , but this time he did not sleep . 
Instead , he hastened on toward the point where he had left the tribe , and when he had found them proudly exhibited the skin of Sabor , the lioness . 
Look ! he cried , Apes of Kerchak . 
See what Tarzan , the mighty killer , has done . 
Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's people ? Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape . 
The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess , and to listen to his words . 
Only Kerchak hung back , nursing his hatred and his rage . 
Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid . 
With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage . 
Biting , and striking with his huge hands , he killed and maimed a dozen ere the balance could escape to the upper terraces of the forest . 
Come down , Tarzan , great killer , cried Kerchak . 
Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground . 
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak , still roaring , charged the relatively puny figure . 
Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs . 
His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles . 
His back drawn , snarling lips exposed his great fighting fangs , and his little , wicked , blood shot eyes gleamed in horrid reflection of his madness . 
Awaiting him stood Tarzan , himself a mighty muscled animal , but his six feet of height and his great rolling sinews seemed pitifully inadequate to the ordeal which awaited them . 
Before he could wrench the blade free again , the bull's quick lunge to seize him in those awful arms had torn the weapon from Tarzan's grasp . 
The man was too quick , and , ducking beneath it , himself delivered a mighty one , with clenched fist , in the pit of Kerchak's stomach . 
And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes . 
Most of them , therefore , were more than content with the change in rulers . 
During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village , where he often renewed his supply of arrows . 
Such a thing was unheard of , and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears . 
Presently the black warriors began to strike farther and farther south into the heart of the forest when they went to hunt , looking for a site for a new village . 
More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen . 
Now was the quiet , fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new , strange cries . 
No longer was there safety for bird or beast . 
With man it is different . 
When he comes many of the larger animals instinctively leave the district entirely , seldom if ever to return and thus it has always been with the great anthropoids . 
They flee man as man flees a pestilence . 
For a short time the tribe of Tarzan lingered in the vicinity of the beach because their new chief hated the thought of leaving the treasured contents of the little cabin forever . 
Once every moon Tarzan would go swinging rapidly back through the swaying branches to have a day with his books , and to replenish his supply of arrows . 
This latter task was becoming more and more difficult , for the blacks had taken to hiding their supply away at night in granaries and living huts . 
This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed . 
Twice had he entered huts at night while the inmates lay sleeping upon their mats , and stolen the arrows from the very sides of the warriors . 
So it came that he spent more and more time in the vicinity of his father's last home , and less and less with the tribe . 
Presently the members of his little community began to suffer on account of his neglect , for disputes and quarrels constantly arose which only the king might settle peaceably . 
At last some of the older apes spoke to Tarzan on the subject , and for a month thereafter he remained constantly with the tribe . 
The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous . 
In the afternoon comes Thaka , possibly , to complain that old Mungo has stolen his new wife . 
Whatever his decision , the apes accept it as final , and return to their occupations satisfied . 
Then comes Tana , shrieking and holding tight her side from which blood is streaming . 
And so it goes , little family differences for the most part , which , if left unsettled would result finally in greater factional strife , and the eventual dismemberment of the tribe . 
But Tarzan tired of it , as he found that kingship meant the curtailment of his liberty . 
He longed for the little cabin and the sun kissed sea for the cool interior of the well built house , and for the never ending wonders of the many books . 
As he had grown older , he found that he had grown away from his people . 
Their interests and his were far removed . 
They had not kept pace with him , nor could they understand aught of the many strange and wonderful dreams that passed through the active brain of their human king . 
Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old . 
A little child may find companionship in many strange and simple creatures , but to a grown man there must be some semblance of equality in intellect as the basis for agreeable association . 
Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows . 
With one accord the tribe swung rapidly toward the frightened cries , and there found Terkoz holding an old female by the hair and beating her unmercifully with his great hands . 
When Terkoz saw Tarzan approaching without his arrows , he continued to belabor the poor woman in a studied effort to affront his hated chieftain . 
Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal , but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz . 
But there was that which had raised him far above his fellows of the jungle that little spark which spells the whole vast difference between man and brute Reason . 
This it was which saved him from death beneath the iron muscles and tearing fangs of Terkoz . 
Scarcely had they fought a dozen seconds ere they were rolling upon the ground , striking , tearing and rending two great savage beasts battling to the death . 
He would work his way to the other's back and , clinging there with tooth and nail , drive his knife home until Terkoz was no more . 
His arm was passed beneath Terkoz's arm from behind and his hand and forearm encircled the back of Terkoz's neck . 
It was the half Nelson of modern wrestling which the untaught ape man had stumbled upon , but superior reason showed him in an instant the value of the thing he had discovered . 
It was the difference to him between life and death . 
And so he struggled to encompass a similar hold with the left hand , and in a few moments Terkoz's bull neck was creaking beneath a full Nelson . 
There was no more lunging about now . 
The two lay perfectly still upon the ground , Tarzan upon Terkoz's back . 
Slowly the bullet head of the ape was being forced lower and lower upon his chest . 
Tarzan knew what the result would be . 
In an instant the neck would break . 
Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits a man's reasoning power . 
KA GODA ? repeated Tarzan . 
KA GODA ! cried Terkoz . 
Listen , said Tarzan , easing up a trifle , but not releasing his hold . 
I am Tarzan , King of the Apes , mighty hunter , mighty fighter . 
In all the jungle there is none so great . 
You have said KA GODA' to me . 
All the tribe have heard . 
Quarrel no more with your king or your people , for next time I shall kill you . 
Do you understand ? HUH , assented Terkoz . 
And you are satisfied ? HUH , said the ape . 
Tarzan let him up , and in a few minutes all were back at their vocations , as though naught had occurred to mar the tranquility of their primeval forest haunts . 
But deep in the minds of the apes was rooted the conviction that Tarzan was a mighty fighter and a strange creature . 
Strange because he had had it in his power to kill his enemy , but had allowed him to live unharmed . 
You have seen again to day that Tarzan of the Apes is the greatest among you , he said . 
HUH , they replied with one voice , Tarzan is great . 
Tarzan , he continued , is not an ape . 
He is not like his people . 
His ways are not their ways , and so Tarzan is going back to the lair of his own kind by the waters of the great lake which has no farther shore . 
You must choose another to rule you , for Tarzan will not return . 
And thus young Lord Greystoke took the first step toward the goal which he had set the finding of other white men like himself . 
Chapter His Own Kind The following morning , Tarzan , lame and sore from the wounds of his battle with Terkoz , set out toward the west and the seacoast . 
He traveled very slowly , sleeping in the jungle at night , and reaching his cabin late the following morning . 
For several days he moved about but little , only enough to gather what fruits and nuts he required to satisfy the demands of hunger . 
It was the mark left by Terkoz when he had torn the scalp away . 
During his convalescence Tarzan tried to fashion a mantle from the skin of Sabor , which had lain all this time in the cabin . 
But he found the hide had dried as stiff as a board , and as he knew naught of tanning , he was forced to abandon his cherished plan . 
About his neck hung the golden chain from which depended the diamond encrusted locket of his mother , the Lady Alice . 
At his back was a quiver of arrows slung from a leathern shoulder belt , another piece of loot from some vanquished black . 
About his waist was a belt of tiny strips of rawhide fashioned by himself as a support for the home made scabbard in which hung his father's hunting knife . 
The long bow which had been Kulonga's hung over his left shoulder . 
A personification , was Tarzan of the Apes , of the primitive man , the hunter , the warrior . 
But of these things Tarzan did not think . 
Was not hair commencing to grow upon his face ? All the apes had hair upon theirs but the black men were entirely hairless , with very few exceptions . 
True , he had seen pictures in his books of men with great masses of hair upon lip and cheek and chin , but , nevertheless , Tarzan was afraid . 
Almost daily he whetted his keen knife and scraped and whittled at his young beard to eradicate this degrading emblem of apehood . 
And so he learned to shave rudely and painfully , it is true but , nevertheless , effectively . 
When he felt quite strong again , after his bloody battle with Terkoz , Tarzan set off one morning towards Mbonga's village . 
He was moving carelessly along a winding jungle trail , instead of making his progress through the trees , when suddenly he came face to face with a black warrior . 
Tarzan took to the trees in pursuit , and in a few moments came in view of the men desperately striving to escape . 
There were three of them , and they were racing madly in single file through the dense undergrowth . 
Tarzan let the first two pass beneath him , but as the third came swiftly on , the quiet noose dropped about the black throat . 
A quick jerk drew it taut . 
There was an agonized scream from the victim , and his fellows turned to see his struggling body rise as by magic slowly into the dense foliage of the trees above . 
With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape . 
Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be . 
None there was who could now doubt his high origin . 
How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery . 
Taking the body across his shoulder , he moved more slowly through the trees toward the little palisaded village , for he again needed arrows . 
Mirando , they said , who had been ahead of them a short distance , had suddenly come screaming toward them , crying that a terrible white and naked warrior was pursuing him . 
The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them . 
No other sound did he utter nor was there any creature in sight about him . 
You tell us this great story , he said , because you do not dare to speak the truth . 
You do not dare admit that when the lion sprang upon Mirando you ran away and left him . 
Scarcely had Mbonga ceased speaking when a great crashing of branches in the trees above them caused the blacks to look up in renewed terror . 
With one accord the blacks took to their heels nor did they stop until the last of them was lost in the dense shadows of the surrounding jungle . 
Again Tarzan came down into the village and renewed his supply of arrows and ate of the offering of food which the blacks had made to appease his wrath . 
Then Tarzan returned , hunting , always hunting , to the cabin by the beach . 
That now seemed to them the logical explanation . 
When Tarzan came in sight of the beach where stood his cabin , a strange and unusual spectacle met his vision . 
On the placid waters of the landlocked harbor floated a great ship , and on the beach a small boat was drawn up . 
But , most wonderful of all , a number of white men like himself were moving about between the beach and his cabin . 
Tarzan saw that in many ways they were like the men of his picture books . 
He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them . 
There were ten men , swarthy , sun tanned , villainous looking fellows . 
Now they had congregated by the boat and were talking in loud , angry tones , with much gesticulating and shaking of fists . 
The little man pointed inland , so that the giant was forced to turn away from the others to look in the direction indicated . 
As he turned , the little , mean faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back . 
The big fellow threw his hands above his head , his knees bent beneath him , and without a sound he tumbled forward upon the beach , dead . 
The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation . 
He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought . 
It was well , thought he , that he had not given way to his first impulse to rush forward and greet these white men as brothers . 
They were evidently no different from the black men no more civilized than the apes no less cruel than Sabor . 
For a moment the others stood looking at the little , mean faced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach . 
Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back . 
There was much more talk and gesticulating , but less quarreling . 
Presently they launched the boat and all jumped into it and rowed away toward the great ship , where Tarzan could see other figures moving about upon the deck . 
When they had clambered aboard , Tarzan dropped to earth behind a great tree and crept to his cabin , keeping it always between himself and the ship . 
Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked . 
His books and pencils strewed the floor . 
His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about . 
Quickly he ran to the cupboard and searched in the far recess of the lower shelf . 
Ah ! He breathed a sigh of relief as he drew out the little tin box , and , opening it , found his greatest treasures undisturbed . 
The photograph of the smiling , strong faced young man , and the little black puzzle book were safe . 
What was that ? His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound . 
Running to the window Tarzan looked toward the harbor , and there he saw that a boat was being lowered from the great ship beside the one already in the water . 
Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats . 
They were coming back in full force . 
This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood . 
Then gathering up his precious tin box , his arrows , and as many bows and spears as he could carry , he hastened through the door and disappeared into the forest . 
When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore . 
Some twenty souls in all there were , fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen . 
The others of the party were of different stamp . 
One was an elderly man , with white hair and large rimmed spectacles . 
His slightly stooped shoulders were draped in an ill fitting , though immaculate , frock coat , and a shiny silk hat added to the incongruity of his garb in an African jungle . 
After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors . 
Her great eyes rolled in evident terror , first toward the jungle and then toward the cursing band of sailors who were removing the bales and boxes from the boats . 
She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks , but no words passed between them . 
In silence the party advanced toward the cabin . 
The men put down their burdens , and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted . 
Ho , mates ! he cried . 
What's here ? This sign was not posted an hour ago or I'll eat the cook . 
Hi , perfesser , he called , step for'rd and read the bloomin' notis . 
Thus addressed , the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood , followed by the other members of his party . 
The old man stopped and , turning back , said Oh , yes , my dear sir , a thousand pardons . 
It was quite thoughtless of me , yes very thoughtless . 
Read it out loud , you blithering old idiot . 
DO NOT HARM THE THINGS WHICH ARE TARZAN'S . 
Who the devil is Tarzan ? cried the sailor who had before spoken . 
He evidently speaks English , said the young man . 
But what does Tarzan of the Apes' mean ? cried the girl . 
What do you make of it , Professor Porter ? he added , turning to the old man . 
Professor Archimedes Q. Porter adjusted his spectacles . 
But , papa , cried the girl , you haven't said anything about it yet . 
I reckon the daffy old bounder don't know no more'n we do about it , growled the rat faced sailor . 
Keep a civil tongue in your head , cried the young man , his face paling in anger , at the insulting tone of the sailor . 
You've murdered our officers and robbed us . 
You damned coward , cried the young man . 
You'd never dare shoot a man until his back was turned . 
You don't dare shoot me even then , and he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test . 
The sailor's hand crept slyly to the butt of one of his revolvers his wicked eyes glared vengefully at the retreating form of the young Englishman . 
The gaze of his fellows was upon him , but still he hesitated . 
At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr. William Cecil Clayton had imagined . 
Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree . 
Tarzan had seen the surprise caused by his notice , and while he could understand nothing of the spoken language of these strange people their gestures and facial expressions told him much . 
Clayton had taken but a dozen steps . 
The rat faced sailor had half drawn his revolver the other sailors stood watching the scene intently . 
Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle , whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T. Philander , his secretary and assistant . 
And then three things happened almost simultaneously . 
The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air , and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror . 
Clayton turned and rushed back toward the scene . 
The sailors stood in a frightened group , with drawn weapons , peering into the jungle . 
The wounded man writhed and shrieked upon the ground . 
Clayton , unseen by any , picked up the fallen revolver and slipped it inside his shirt , then he joined the sailors in gazing , mystified , into the jungle . 
Who could it have been ? whispered Jane Porter , and the young man turned to see her standing , wide eyed and wondering , close beside him . 
I dare say Tarzan of the Apes is watching us all right , he answered , in a dubious tone . 
I wonder , now , who that spear was intended for . 
If for Snipes , then our ape friend is a friend indeed . 
By jove , where are your father and Mr. Philander ? There's someone or something in that jungle , and it's armed , whatever it is . 
Ho ! Professor ! Mr. Philander ! young Clayton shouted . 
What's to be done , Miss Porter ? continued the young man , his face clouded by a frown of worry and indecision . 
I can't leave you here alone with these cutthroats , and you certainly can't venture into the jungle with me yet someone must go in search of your father . 
He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly , regardless of danger or direction , and Mr. Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he . 
I quite agree with you , replied the girl , and I am not offended at all . 
Dear old papa would sacrifice his life for me without an instant's hesitation , provided one could keep his mind on so frivolous a matter for an entire instant . 
There is only one way to keep him in safety , and that is to chain him to a tree . 
The poor dear is SO impractical . 
I have it ! suddenly exclaimed Clayton . 
You can use a revolver , can't you ? Yes . 
Why ? I have one . 
With it you and Esmeralda will be comparatively safe in this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr. Philander . 
Come , call the woman and I will hurry on . 
They can't have gone far . 
Jane did as he suggested and when he saw the door close safely behind them Clayton turned toward the jungle . 
Every few moments he called aloud the names of the wanderers . 
It was by the merest caprice of fortune that they headed toward the west coast of Africa , instead of toward Zanzibar on the opposite side of the dark continent . 
It never occurred to either of these impractical theorists to call aloud on the chance of attracting their friends' attention . 
When Jane and Esmeralda found themselves safely behind the cabin door the Negress's first thought was to barricade the portal from the inside . 
Jane , turning at the cry , saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them the whitened skeleton of a man . 
A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed . 
What horrible place are we in ? murmured the awe struck girl . 
But there was no panic in her fright . 
Quickly , with an impatient stamp of her little foot , she endeavored to shake off the gloomy forebodings , and turning to Esmeralda bade her cease her wailing . 
Stop , Esmeralda , stop it this minute ! she cried . 
You are only making it worse . 
Then they sat down upon a bench with their arms about one another , and waited . 
So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder . 
But the most wonderful sight of all , to him , was the face of the beautiful white girl . 
Here at last was one of his own kind of that he was positive . 
And the young man and the two old men they , too , were much as he had pictured his own people to be . 
But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen . 
The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one . 
They might be very different if provided with weapons . 
As for the big black woman , she was evidently connected in some way to the girl , and so he liked her , also . 
For the sailors , and especially Snipes , he had developed a great hatred . 
He knew by their threatening gestures and by the expression upon their evil faces that they were enemies of the others of the party , and so he decided to watch closely . 
He swung off rapidly in the direction taken by Clayton , and in a short time heard faintly in the distance the now only occasional calls of the Englishman to his friends . 
Presently Tarzan came up with the white man , who , almost fagged , was leaning against a tree wiping the perspiration from his forehead . 
The ape man , hiding safe behind a screen of foliage , sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently . 
At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man . 
Tarzan was on the point of going off to look for them himself , when he caught the yellow glint of a sleek hide moving cautiously through the jungle toward Clayton . 
It was Sheeta , the leopard . 
Now , Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned . 
Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning ? Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy . 
No , the white man did not hear . 
Clayton came to his feet with a start . 
Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears . 
Possibly , too , he thought , the professor and Philander might have returned to camp . 
Yes , that was more than likely . 
At least he would return and see , before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest . 
And so he started , stumbling back through the thick and matted underbrush in the direction that he thought the cabin lay . 
To Tarzan's surprise the young man was heading further into the jungle in the general direction of Mbonga's village , and the shrewd young ape man was convinced that he was lost . 
Nor was he following the trail of the old men . 
That , they had crossed and left long since , though it had been fresh and plain before Tarzan's eyes . 
The fierce jungle would make easy prey of this unprotected stranger in a very short time if he were not guided quickly to the beach . 
Yes , there was Numa , the lion , even now , stalking the white man a dozen paces to the right . 
Clayton heard the great body paralleling his course , and now there rose upon the evening air the beast's thunderous roar . 
The man stopped with upraised spear and faced the brush from which issued the awful sound . 
The shadows were deepening , darkness was settling in . 
Clayton stood rigid , with raised spear . 
Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind . 
It was gathering for the spring . 
At last he saw it , not twenty feet away the long , lithe , muscular body and tawny head of a huge black maned lion . 
The beast was upon its belly , moving forward very slowly . 
As its eyes met Clayton's it stopped , and deliberately , cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it . 
In agony the man watched , fearful to launch his spear , powerless to fly . 
He heard a noise in the tree above him . 
Some new danger , he thought , but he dared not take his eyes from the yellow green orbs before him . 
There was a sharp twang as of a broken banjo string , and at the same instant an arrow appeared in the yellow hide of the crouching lion . 
Almost simultaneously with the lion's turning to renew the attack a half naked giant dropped from the tree above squarely on the brute's back . 
The scene he witnessed there in the twilight depths of the African jungle was burned forever into the Englishman's brain . 
To his agility , to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy . 
His right arm encircled the lion's neck , while the left hand plunged the knife time and again into the unprotected side behind the left shoulder . 
The infuriated beast , pulled up and backwards until he stood upon his hind legs , struggled impotently in this unnatural position . 
Then , squatting upon his haunches , he proceeded to eat , first motioning Clayton to join him . 
If so he must speak English . 
No , this could not be Tarzan of the Apes , for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English . 
Then he left him to follow voluntarily . 
Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm a single shot , and then silence . 
In the cabin by the beach two thoroughly terrified women clung to each other as they crouched upon the low bench in the gathering darkness . 
And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin . 
She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside . 
For an instant , all was silence even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur . 
Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door , not two feet from where she crouched . 
Instinctively the girl shuddered , and shrank closer to the black woman . 
Hush , Esmeralda , for the woman's sobs and groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall . 
A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door . 
The brute tried to force an entrance but presently this ceased , and again she heard the great pads creeping stealthily around the cabin . 
Again they stopped beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves . 
God ! she murmured , for now , silhouetted against the moonlit sky beyond , she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness . 
The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity . 
Look , Esmeralda ! she whispered . 
The sight that met the poor woman's eyes was too much for the already overstrung nerves . 
Oh , Gaberelle ! she shrieked , and slid to the floor an inert and senseless mass . 
For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill , glaring into the little room . 
Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons . 
The girl had almost ceased to breathe , when , to her relief , the head disappeared and she heard the brute's footsteps leaving the window . 
Could Jane have known the immense strength of that door , built piece by piece , she would have felt less fear of the lioness reaching her by this avenue . 
For fully twenty minutes the brute alternately sniffed and tore at the door , occasionally giving voice to a wild , savage cry of baffled rage . 
The girl heard the wooden rods groan beneath the impact but they held , and the huge body dropped back to the ground below . 
Slowly the powerful neck and shoulders spread the bars apart , and the lithe body protruded farther and farther into the room . 
As in a trance , the girl rose , her hand upon her breast , wide eyes staring horror stricken into the snarling face of the beast scarce ten feet from her . 
At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress . 
If she could but arouse her , their combined efforts might possibly avail to beat back the fierce and bloodthirsty intruder . 
Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder . 
Esmeralda ! Esmeralda ! she cried . 
Help me , or we are lost . 
The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness . 
Esmeralda weighed some two hundred and eighty pounds , and her extreme haste , added to her extreme corpulency , produced a most amazing result when Esmeralda elected to travel on all fours . 
With the subsidence of Esmeralda the lioness renewed her efforts to wriggle her huge bulk through the weakening lattice . 
The girl , standing pale and rigid against the farther wall , sought with ever increasing terror for some loophole of escape . 
Suddenly her hand , tight pressed against her bosom , felt the hard outline of the revolver that Clayton had left with her earlier in the day . 
Quickly she snatched it from its hiding place , and , leveling it full at the lioness's face , pulled the trigger . 
There was a flash of flame , the roar of the discharge , and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast . 
Jane Porter saw the great form disappear from the window , and then she , too , fainted , the revolver falling at her side . 
But Sabor was not killed . 
The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders . 
It was the surprise at the blinding flash and the deafening roar that had caused her hasty but temporary retreat . 
In another instant she was back at the lattice , and with renewed fury was clawing at the aperture , but with lessened effect , since the wounded member was almost useless . 
She saw her prey the two women lying senseless upon the floor . 
There was no longer any resistance to be overcome . 
Her meat lay before her , and Sabor had only to worm her way through the lattice to claim it . 
Slowly she forced her great bulk , inch by inch , through the opening . 
Now her head was through , now one great forearm and shoulder . 
Carefully she drew up the wounded member to insinuate it gently beyond the tight pressing bars . 
A moment more and both shoulders through , the long , sinuous body and the narrow hips would glide quickly after . 
It was on this sight that Jane Porter again opened her eyes . 
Chapter The Forest God When Clayton heard the report of the firearm he fell into an agony of fear and apprehension . 
Perhaps even now she was attempting to defend herself against some savage man or beast . 
The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot . 
High into bending and swaying branches he was borne with what seemed to him incredible swiftness , while Tarzan chafed at the slowness of his progress . 
Occasionally they would enter a spot where the foliage above was less dense , and the bright rays of the moon lit up before Clayton's wondering eyes the strange path they were traversing . 
And yet with all his seeming speed , Tarzan was in reality feeling his way with comparative slowness , searching constantly for limbs of adequate strength for the maintenance of this double weight . 
Presently they came to the clearing before the beach . 
The Englishman sprang quickly after him just in time to see the hind quarters of some huge animal about to disappear through the window of the cabin . 
As Jane opened her eyes to a realization of the imminent peril which threatened her , her brave young heart gave up at last its final vestige of hope . 
But then to her surprise she saw the huge animal being slowly drawn back through the window , and in the moonlight beyond she saw the heads and shoulders of two men . 
For a naked man to drag a shrieking , clawing man eater forth from a window by the tail to save a strange white girl , was indeed the last word in heroism . 
Though he knew that the lioness would make short work of both of them , he pulled with a will to keep it from Jane Porter . 
And then he recalled the battle between this man and the great , black maned lion which he had witnessed a short time before , and he commenced to feel more assurance . 
Tarzan was still issuing orders which Clayton could not understand . 
Slowly the lioness was emerging from the window . 
At last her shoulders were out . 
And then Clayton saw an incredible thing . 
With a roar the lioness turned completely over upon her back , falling full upon her enemy but the black haired giant only closed tighter his hold . 
Higher crept the steel forearms of the ape man about the back of Sabor's neck . 
Weaker and weaker became the lioness's efforts . 
At last Clayton saw the immense muscles of Tarzan's shoulders and biceps leap into corded knots beneath the silver moonlight . 
There was a long sustained and supreme effort on the ape man's part and the vertebrae of Sabor's neck parted with a sharp snap . 
In an instant Tarzan was upon his feet , and for the second time that day Clayton heard the bull ape's savage roar of victory . 
As quickly as she could she raised the great bar and fairly dragged Clayton within . 
What was that awful noise ? she whispered , shrinking close to him . 
It was the cry of the kill from the throat of the man who has just saved your life , Miss Porter . 
Wait , I will fetch him so you may thank him . 
The frightened girl would not be left alone , so she accompanied Clayton to the side of the cabin where lay the dead body of the lioness . 
Tarzan of the Apes was gone . 
Clayton called several times , but there was no reply , and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior . 
What a frightful sound ! cried Jane , I shudder at the mere thought of it . 
Do not tell me that a human throat voiced that hideous and fearsome shriek . 
But it did , Miss Porter , replied Clayton or at least if not a human throat that of a forest god . 
I cannot make it out at all , he concluded . 
At first I thought he might be Tarzan of the Apes but he neither speaks nor understands English , so that theory is untenable . 
And now , for Jane Porter , the reaction came , and she threw herself upon the bench , sobbing with hysterical laughter . 
Chapter Most Remarkable Several miles south of the cabin , upon a strip of sandy beach , stood two old men , arguing . 
Before them stretched the broad Atlantic . 
At their backs was the Dark Continent . 
Close around them loomed the impenetrable blackness of the jungle . 
Savage beasts roared and growled noises , hideous and weird , assailed their ears . 
They had wandered for miles in search of their camp , but always in the wrong direction . 
They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world . 
Samuel T. Philander was speaking . 
Professor Archimedes Q. Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr. Philander . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , he chided . 
As I was saying , Mr. Heavens , Professor , a lion ? cried Mr. Philander , straining his weak eyes toward the dim figure outlined against the dark tropical underbrush . 
Yes , yes , Mr. Philander , if you insist upon employing slang in your discourse , a lion . 
In the meantime the lion had approached with quiet dignity to within ten paces of the two men , where he stood curiously watching them . 
The moonlight flooded the beach , and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand . 
Most reprehensible , most reprehensible , exclaimed Professor Porter , with a faint trace of irritation in his voice . 
Never , Mr. Philander , never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage . 
I shall most certainly report this outrageous breach of ethics to the directors of the adjacent zoological garden . 
Quite right , Professor , agreed Mr. Philander , and the sooner it is done the better . 
Seizing the professor by the arm , Mr. Philander set off in the direction that would put the greatest distance between themselves and the lion . 
They had proceeded but a short distance when a backward glance revealed to the horrified gaze of Mr. Philander that the lion was following them . 
He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed . 
As I was saying , Mr. Philander , repeated Professor Porter . 
Mr. Philander took another hasty glance rearward . 
The lion also had quickened his gait , and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them . 
He is following us ! gasped Mr. Philander , breaking into a run . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , remonstrated the professor , this unseemly haste is most unbecoming to men of letters . 
What will our friends think of us , who may chance to be upon the street and witness our frivolous antics ? Pray let us proceed with more decorum . 
Mr. Philander stole another observation astern . 
The lion was bounding along in easy leaps scarce five paces behind . 
Mr. Philander dropped the professor's arm , and broke into a mad orgy of speed that would have done credit to any varsity track team . 
As I was saying , Mr. Philander screamed Professor Porter , as , metaphorically speaking , he himself threw her into high . 
He , too , had caught a fleeting backward glimpse of cruel yellow eyes and half open mouth within startling proximity of his person . 
With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q. Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr. Samuel T. Philander . 
It was Tarzan of the Apes who watched , with face a grin , this odd game of follow the leader . 
He knew the two men were safe enough from attack in so far as the lion was concerned . 
The very fact that Numa had foregone such easy prey at all convinced the wise forest craft of Tarzan that Numa's belly already was full . 
The lion might stalk them until hungry again but the chances were that if not angered he would soon tire of the sport , and slink away to his jungle lair . 
For a moment the two men clung panting to the great branch , while Tarzan squatted with his back to the stem of the tree , watching them with mingled curiosity and amusement . 
It was the professor who first broke the silence . 
You have accused me of cowardice . 
You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me , not to escape the clutches of the lion . 
Have a care , Professor Archimedes Q. Porter ! I am a desperate man . 
Goaded by long suffering patience the worm will turn . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , tut , tut ! cautioned Professor Porter you forget yourself . 
The professor sat in silence for a few minutes , and the darkness hid the grim smile that wreathed his wrinkled countenance . 
Ark ! gasped the astonished Mr. Philander . 
The professor reached out a thin , trembling old hand through the darkness until it found his old friend's shoulder . 
Forgive me , Skinny , he said , softly . 
Another old hand stole up from Mr. Philander's side to clasp the one that lay upon his shoulder , and no other message could better have translated the one heart to the other . 
They did not speak for some minutes . 
The lion below them paced nervously back and forth . 
The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem . 
He , too , was silent motionless as a graven image . 
You certainly pulled me up into this tree just in time , said the professor at last . 
I want to thank you . 
But I didn't pull you up here , Professor , said Mr. Philander . 
Eh ? ejaculated Professor Porter . 
Are you quite positive , Mr. Philander ? Most positive , Professor , replied Mr. Philander , and , he added , I think we should thank the party . 
He may be sitting right next to you now , Professor . 
Eh ? What's that ? Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , tut , tut ! said Professor Porter , edging cautiously nearer to Mr. Philander . 
Even the lion trembles in fear , whispered Mr. Philander . 
Most remarkable , most remarkable , murmured Professor Porter , clutching frantically at Mr. Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered . 
For a moment they swayed uncertainly , and then , with mingled and most unscholarly shrieks , they pitched headlong from the tree , locked in frenzied embrace . 
It was quite some moments ere either moved , for both were positive that any such attempt would reveal so many breaks and fractures as to make further progress impossible . 
At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg . 
To his surprise , it responded to his will as in days gone by . 
He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again . 
Most remarkable , most remarkable , he murmured . 
With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm joy ! It was intact . 
Breathlessly he waved his left arm above his prostrate body it waved ! Most remarkable , most remarkable , he said . 
To whom are you signaling , Professor ? asked Mr. Philander , in an excited tone . 
Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry . 
Instead he raised his head gently from the ground , nodding it back and forth a half dozen times . 
Most remarkable , he breathed . 
Mr. Philander had not moved from where he had fallen he had not dared the attempt . 
How sad ! exclaimed Mr. Philander , half aloud . 
Concussion of the brain , superinducing total mental aberration . 
Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy . 
They are all here , he exclaimed . 
We must be up and doing . 
Mr. Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter . 
Then he attempted to rise nor could there have been any more surprised than he when his efforts were immediately crowned with marked success . 
Professor Porter had recovered his shiny silk hat , which he had brushed carefully upon the sleeve of his coat and replaced upon his head . 
When he saw Mr. Philander pointing to something behind him he turned to behold a giant , naked but for a loin cloth and a few metal ornaments , standing motionless before him . 
Good evening , sir ! said the professor , lifting his hat . 
For reply the giant motioned them to follow him , and set off up the beach in the direction from which they had recently come . 
I think it the better part of discretion to follow him , said Mr. Philander . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , returned the professor . 
A short time since you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us . 
I was skeptical , but you finally convinced me so now I am positive that toward the south we must travel to reach our friends . 
Therefore I shall continue south . 
But , Professor Porter , this man may know better than either of us . 
He seems to be indigenous to this part of the world . 
Let us at least follow him for a short distance . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , repeated the professor . 
I am a difficult man to convince , but when once convinced my decision is unalterable . 
I shall continue in the proper direction , if I have to circumambulate the continent of Africa to reach my destination . 
Further argument was interrupted by Tarzan , who , seeing that these strange men were not following him , had returned to their side . 
Again he beckoned to them but still they stood in argument . 
Presently the ape man lost patience with their stupid ignorance . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , remonstrated Professor Porter it is most unbeseeming in you to submit to such indignities . 
But scarcely were the words out of his mouth ere he , too , had been seized and securely bound by the neck with the same rope . 
Then Tarzan set off toward the north , leading the now thoroughly frightened professor and his secretary . 
Here Tarzan released them , and , pointing toward the little building , vanished into the jungle beside them . 
Most remarkable , most remarkable ! gasped the professor . 
Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of wise counsel . 
Mr. Samuel T. Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling . 
Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin . 
It was a much relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united . 
Dawn discovered them still recounting their various adventures and speculating upon the identity of the strange guardian and protector they had found on this savage shore . 
Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord , sent down especially to watch over them . 
Had you seen him devour the raw meat of the lion , Esmeralda , laughed Clayton , you would have thought him a very material angel . 
There was nothing heavenly about his voice , said Jane Porter , with a little shudder at recollection of the awful roar which had followed the killing of the lioness . 
Chapter Burials As it was now quite light , the party , none of whom had eaten or slept since the previous morning , began to bestir themselves to prepare food . 
Professor Porter and Mr. Philander were deeply interested in examining the skeletons . 
The two larger , they stated , had belonged to a male and female of one of the higher white races . 
The smallest skeleton was given but passing attention , as its location , in the crib , left no doubt as to its having been the infant offspring of this unhappy couple . 
Picking it up to examine it , Clayton gave a cry of astonishment , for the ring bore the crest of the house of Greystoke . 
At the same time , Jane discovered the books in the cupboard , and on opening the fly leaf of one of them saw the name , JOHN CLAYTON , LONDON . 
In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name , GREYSTOKE . 
Why , Mr. Clayton , she cried , what does this mean ? Here are the names of some of your own people in these books . 
But how do you account for these things being here , in this savage African jungle ? exclaimed the girl . 
There is but one way to account for it , Miss Porter , said Clayton . 
The late Lord Greystoke was not drowned . 
He died here in this cabin and this poor thing upon the floor is all that is mortal of him . 
Then this must have been Lady Greystoke , said Jane reverently , indicating the poor mass of bones upon the bed . 
The beautiful Lady Alice , replied Clayton , of whose many virtues and remarkable personal charms I often have heard my mother and father speak . 
Poor woman , he murmured sadly . 
As Mr. Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth , he examined the skull minutely . 
Then he called Professor Porter to his side , and the two argued in low tones for several minutes . 
Most remarkable , most remarkable , said Professor Porter . 
Bless me , said Mr. Philander , we must acquaint Mr. Clayton with our discovery at once . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Philander , tut , tut ! remonstrated Professor Archimedes Q. Porter . 
Let the dead past bury its dead . 
And so the white haired old man repeated the burial service over this strange grave , while his four companions stood with bowed and uncovered heads about him . 
From the trees Tarzan of the Apes watched the solemn ceremony but most of all he watched the sweet face and graceful figure of Jane Porter . 
In his savage , untutored breast new emotions were stirring . 
He could not fathom them . 
He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people why he had gone to such pains to save the three men . 
But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl . 
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly . 
Even Manu , the monkey , was more intelligent than they . 
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted . 
But the girl , ah that was a different matter . 
He did not reason here . 
He knew that she was created to be protected , and that he was created to protect her . 
He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones . 
Surely there was no sense in that no one wanted to steal dry bones . 
Had there been meat upon them he could have understood , for thus alone might one keep his meat from Dango , the hyena , and the other robbers of the jungle . 
Look at them low down white trash out there ! she shrilled , pointing toward the Arrow . 
They all's a desecrating us , right here on this here perverted island . 
And , sure enough , the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea , slowly , through the harbor's entrance . 
They promised to leave us firearms and ammunition , said Clayton . 
The merciless beasts ! It is the work of that fellow they call Snipes , I am sure , said Jane . 
King was a scoundrel , but he had a little sense of humanity . 
If they had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly provided for before they left us to our fate . 
I regret that they did not visit us before sailing , said Professor Porter . 
I had proposed requesting them to leave the treasure with us , as I shall be a ruined man if that is lost . 
Jane looked at her father sadly . 
Never mind , dear , she said . 
It wouldn't have done any good , because it is solely for the treasure that they killed their officers and landed us upon this awful shore . 
Tut , tut , child , tut , tut ! replied Professor Porter . 
His daughter watched him with a pathetic smile upon her lips , and then turning to Mr. Philander , she whispered Please don't let him wander off again as he did yesterday . 
We depend upon you , you know , to keep a close watch upon him . 
He becomes more difficult to handle each day , replied Mr. Philander , with a sigh and a shake of his head . 
I presume he is now off to report to the directors of the Zoo that one of their lions was at large last night . 
Oh , Miss Jane , you don't know what I have to contend with . 
The poor dear cannot differentiate between erudition and wisdom . 
There were some twenty men running hither and thither about the deck , pulling and hauling on ropes . 
Tarzan watched the graceful movements of the ship in rapt admiration , and longed to be aboard her . 
Presently his keen eyes caught the faintest suspicion of smoke on the far northern horizon , and he wondered over the cause of such a thing out on the great water . 
About the same time the look out on the Arrow must have discerned it , for in a few minutes Tarzan saw the sails being shifted and shortened . 
The ship came about , and presently he knew that she was beating back toward land . 
A man at the bows was constantly heaving into the sea a rope to the end of which a small object was fastened . 
Tarzan wondered what the purpose of this action might be . 
At last the ship came up directly into the wind the anchor was lowered down came the sails . 
There was great scurrying about on deck . 
A boat was lowered , and in it a great chest was placed . 
Then a dozen sailors bent to the oars and pulled rapidly toward the point where Tarzan crouched in the branches of a tree . 
In the stern of the boat , as it drew nearer , Tarzan saw the rat faced man . 
It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach . 
The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand . 
They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin . 
The men argued angrily for a moment . 
Then the rat faced one , with several companions , ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan . 
They looked about for several minutes . 
Here is a good place , said the rat faced sailor , indicating a spot beneath Tarzan's tree . 
It is as good as any , replied one of his companions . 
If they catch us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway . 
We might as well bury it here on the chance that some of us will escape the gallows to come back and enjoy it later . 
The rat faced one now called to the men who had remained at the boat , and they came slowly up the bank carrying picks and shovels . 
Hurry , you ! cried Snipes . 
Stow it ! retorted one of the men , in a surly tone . 
You're no admiral , you damned shrimp . 
I'm Cap'n here , though , I'll have you to understand , you swab , shrieked Snipes , with a volley of frightful oaths . 
Steady , boys , cautioned one of the men who had not spoken before . 
It ain't goin' to get us nothing by fightin' amongst ourselves . 
Right enough , replied the sailor who had resented Snipes' autocratic tones but it ain't a goin' to get nobody nothin' to put on airs in this bloomin' company neither . 
You fellows dig here , said Snipes , indicating a spot beneath the tree . 
And while you're diggin' , Peter kin be a makin' of a map of the location so's we kin find it again . 
You , Tom , and Bill , take a couple more down and fetch up the chest . 
Wot are you a goin' to do ? asked he of the previous altercation . 
Just boss ? Git busy there , growled Snipes . 
You didn't think your Cap'n was a goin' to dig with a shovel , did you ? The men all looked up angrily . 
Not by a damned sight , replied Snipes , fingering the butt of his revolver nervously . 
Then , by God , replied Tarrant , if you won't take a shovel you'll take a pickax . 
With the words he raised his pick above his head , and , with a mighty blow , he buried the point in Snipes' brain . 
For a moment the men stood silently looking at the result of their fellow's grim humor . 
Then one of them spoke . 
Served the skunk jolly well right , he said . 
One of the others commenced to ply his pick to the ground . 
The soil was soft and he threw aside the pick and grasped a shovel then the others joined him . 
There was no further comment on the killing , but the men worked in a better frame of mind than they had since Snipes had assumed command . 
When they had a trench of ample size to bury the chest , Tarrant suggested that they enlarge it and inter Snipes' body on top of the chest . 
It might 'elp fool any as 'appened to be diggin' 'ereabouts , he explained . 
Earth was shovelled in and tramped down about the chest until the bottom of the grave showed level and uniform . 
They then filled the grave with earth and tramped upon it until it would hold no more . 
Their work done the sailors returned to the small boat , and pulled off rapidly toward the Arrow . 
Tarzan , an interested spectator of all that had taken place , sat speculating on the strange actions of these peculiar creatures . 
If they did not want it why did they not merely throw it into the water ? That would have been much easier . 
Ah , he thought , but they do want it . 
They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later . 
Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation . 
He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own . 
Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave . 
He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do . 
It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet , but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body . 
This he dragged from the grave and laid to one side . 
Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest . 
This also he dragged to the side of the corpse . 
Then he filled in the smaller hole below the grave , replaced the body and the earth around and above it , covered it over with underbrush , and returned to the chest . 
He could not well negotiate the trees with his awkward burden , but he kept to the trails , and so made fairly good time . 
For several hours he traveled a little north of east until he came to an impenetrable wall of matted and tangled vegetation . 
Near the center of the clearing , and not far from the drum , or altar , he commenced to dig . 
His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable , or the men would not have hidden it . 
But the heavy lock and massive iron bands baffled both his cunning and his immense strength , so that he was compelled to bury the chest without having his curiosity satisfied . 
By the time Tarzan had hunted his way back to the vicinity of the cabin , feeding as he went , it was quite dark . 
The lamps also were still useable , and thus the interior of the cabin appeared as bright as day to the astonished Tarzan . 
He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps . 
As he approached the window nearest the door he saw that the cabin had been divided into two rooms by a rough partition of boughs and sailcloth . 
Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men , however , so he sought the other window . 
How beautiful her features ! How delicate her snowy skin ! She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window . 
Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep . 
For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote . 
At length she arose , leaving her manuscript upon the table . 
She went to the bed upon which had been spread several layers of soft grasses . 
Then she loosened the soft mass of golden hair which crowned her head . 
Like a shimmering waterfall turned to burnished metal by a dying sun it fell about her oval face in waving lines , below her waist it tumbled . 
Then she extinguished the lamp and all within the cabin was wrapped in Cimmerian darkness . 
Creeping close beneath the window he waited , listening , for half an hour . 
At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep . 
Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin . 
Carefully he felt upon the desk . 
At last he grasped the manuscript upon which Jane Porter had been writing , and as cautiously withdrew his arm and hand , holding the precious treasure . 
Tarzan folded the sheets into a small parcel which he tucked into the quiver with his arrows . 
Then he melted away into the jungle as softly and as noiselessly as a shadow . 
Hurriedly he brought it forth , hoping against hope that he could read what the beautiful white girl had written there the preceding evening . 
What did it matter if the message were not intended for him ? It was an expression of her thoughts , and that was sufficient for Tarzan of the Apes . 
Even the little bugs of the black book were familiar friends , though their arrangement meant nothing to him but these bugs were new and unheard of . 
For twenty minutes he pored over them , when suddenly they commenced to take familiar though distorted shapes . 
Ah , they were his old friends , but badly crippled . 
Then he began to make out a word here and a word there . 
His heart leaped for joy . 
He could read it , and he would . 
In another half hour he was progressing rapidly , and , but for an exceptional word now and again , he found it very plain sailing . 
Here is what he read WEST COAST OF AFRICA , ABOUT X DEGREES SOUTH LATITUDE . 
As you know , we were supposed to have set out upon a scientific expedition to the Congo . 
Papa was presumed to entertain some wondrous theory of an unthinkably ancient civilization , the remains of which lay buried somewhere in the Congo valley . 
But after we were well under sail the truth came out . 
They were blown hither and thither for two months , until sick and dying of scurvy , starvation , and thirst , they had been wrecked on a small islet . 
This they buried well up on the island , and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued . 
One by one they sickened and died , until only one man was left , the writer of the letter . 
The men had built a boat from the wreckage of the galleon , but having no idea where the island was located they had not dared to put to sea . 
The story he told was merely one of shipwreck in which all but a few had perished , the balance , except himself , dying after they reached the island . 
He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure . 
To add to my distress , I learned that he had borrowed ten thousand dollars more from Robert Canler , and had given his notes for the amount . 
Mr. Canler had asked for no security , and you know , dearie , what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them . 
It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin , and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight . 
Oh , it was the most terrifying experience one could imagine I cannot even write of it . 
I wish you could know Mr. Clayton he is the dearest fellow imaginable , and unless I am mistaken he has fallen very much in love with me . 
He is the only son of Lord Greystoke , and some day will inherit the title and estates . 
We have had the most weird experiences since we were landed here . 
Papa and Mr. Philander lost in the jungle , and chased by a real lion . 
Mr. Clayton lost , and attacked twice by wild beasts . 
Esmeralda and I cornered in an old cabin by a perfectly awful man eating lioness . 
Oh , it was simply terrifical , as Esmeralda would say . 
But the strangest part of it all is the wonderful creature who rescued us . 
He speaks no English and vanishes as quickly and as mysteriously after he has performed some valorous deed , as though he were a disembodied spirit . 
TO HAZEL STRONG , BALTIMORE , MD . 
Tarzan sat in a brown study for a long time after he finished reading the letter . 
It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all . 
So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes . 
In his tree he had constructed a rude shelter of leaves and boughs , beneath which , protected from the rain , he had placed the few treasures brought from the cabin . 
Among these were some pencils . 
He took one , and beneath Jane Porter's signature he wrote I am Tarzan of the Apes He thought that would be sufficient . 
Later he would return the letter to the cabin . 
In the matter of food , thought Tarzan , they had no need to worry he would provide , and he did . 
The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before . 
She was mystified but when she saw the printed words beneath her signature , she felt a cold , clammy chill run up her spine . 
She showed the letter , or rather the last sheet with the signature , to Clayton . 
And to think , she said , that uncanny thing was probably watching me all the time that I was writing oo ! It makes me shudder just to think of it . 
From then on scarcely a day passed that did not bring its offering of game or other food . 
Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers . 
It seemed to him that no pleasure on earth could compare with laboring for the welfare and protection of the beautiful white girl . 
Some day he would venture into the camp in daylight and talk with these people through the medium of the little bugs which were familiar to them and to Tarzan . 
But he found it difficult to overcome the timidity of the wild thing of the forest , and so day followed day without seeing a fulfillment of his good intentions . 
The party in the camp , emboldened by familiarity , wandered farther and yet farther into the jungle in search of nuts and fruit . 
Scarcely a day passed that did not find Professor Porter straying in his preoccupied indifference toward the jaws of death . 
Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight . 
Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor's mouth to look for passing vessels . 
Here he kept a great mass of wood , high piled , ready to be ignited as a signal should a steamer or a sail top the far horizon . 
The others gone , Jane and Esmeralda had wandered into the jungle to gather fruit , and in their search were led farther and farther from the cabin . 
Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return . 
His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl . 
They were always of her now . 
He wondered if she would fear him , and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan . 
He was rapidly becoming impatient for her return , that he might feast his eyes upon her and be near her , perhaps touch her . 
The ape man knew no god , but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship . 
He wrote I am Tarzan of the Apes . 
We live here together always in my house . 
I will bring you the best of fruits , the tenderest deer , the finest meats that roam the jungle . 
I will hunt for you . 
I am the greatest of the jungle fighters . 
I will fight for you . 
I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters . 
You are Jane Porter , I saw it in your letter . 
When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you . 
As he stood , straight as a young Indian , by the door , waiting after he had finished the message , there came to his keen ears a familiar sound . 
It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest . 
A glance within confirmed their worst fears . 
Jane and Esmeralda were not there . 
Instantly , Clayton , followed by the two old men , plunged into the jungle , calling the girl's name aloud . 
For half an hour they stumbled on , until Clayton , by merest chance , came upon the prostrate form of Esmeralda . 
He stopped beside her , feeling for her pulse and then listening for her heartbeats . 
Esmeralda ! he shrieked in her ear . 
Esmeralda ! For God's sake , where is Miss Porter ? What has happened ? Esmeralda ! Slowly Esmeralda opened her eyes . 
She saw the jungle about her . 
Oh , Gaberelle ! she screamed , and fainted again . 
By this time Professor Porter and Mr. Philander had come up . 
What shall we do , Mr. Clayton ? asked the old professor . 
Where shall we look ? God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl away from me now . 
We must arouse Esmeralda first , replied Clayton . 
She can tell us what has happened . 
Esmeralda ! he cried again , shaking the black woman roughly by the shoulder . 
O Gaberelle , I want to die ! cried the poor woman , but with eyes fast closed . 
Let me die , dear Lord , don't let me see that awful face again . 
Come , come , Esmeralda , cried Clayton . 
The Lord isn't here it's Mr. Clayton . 
Esmeralda did as she was bade . 
O Gaberelle ! Thank the Lord , she said . 
Where's Miss Porter ? What happened ? questioned Clayton . 
Ain't Miss Jane here ? cried Esmeralda , sitting up with wonderful celerity for one of her bulk . 
Oh , Lord , now I remember ! It must have took her away , and the Negress commenced to sob , and wail her lamentations . 
What took her away ? cried Professor Porter . 
A great big giant all covered with hair . 
A gorilla , Esmeralda ? questioned Mr. Philander , and the three men scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought . 
I thought it was the devil but I guess it must have been one of them gorilephants . 
Oh , my poor baby , my poor little honey , and again Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing . 
It was long after dark ere they reached the cabin , and a sad and grief stricken party it was that sat silently within the little structure . 
Professor Porter finally broke the silence . 
I shall lie down now , said the old man , and try to sleep . 
Early to morrow , as soon as it is light , I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane . 
I will not return without her . 
His companions did not reply at once . 
Each was immersed in his own sorrowful thoughts , and each knew , as did the old professor , what the last words meant Professor Porter would never return from the jungle . 
At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder . 
I shall go with you , of course , he said . 
I knew that you would offer that you would wish to go , Mr. Clayton but you must not . 
Jane is beyond human assistance now . 
What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle . 
No it is I alone who may go , for she was my daughter all that was left on earth for me to love . 
I shall go with you , said Clayton simply . 
The old man looked up , regarding the strong , handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently . 
Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath the love for his daughter . 
Now they came back to him , one by one . 
As you wish , he said . 
You may count on me , also , said Mr. Philander . 
No , my dear old friend , said Professor Porter . 
We may not all go . 
It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone , and three of us would be no more successful than one . 
There be enough dead things in the cruel forest as it is . 
Come let us try to sleep a little . 
Chapter The Call of the Primitive From the time Tarzan left the tribe of great anthropoids in which he had been raised , it was torn by continual strife and discord . 
But , instead , let two or three or four of you attack him together . 
And the ape who recalled this wise counsel repeated it to several of his fellows , so that when Terkoz returned to the tribe that day he found a warm reception awaiting him . 
As Terkoz reached the group , five huge , hairy beasts sprang upon him . 
Two more attempts he made to rejoin the tribe , but on each occasion he was set upon and driven away . 
At last he gave it up , and turned , foaming with rage and hatred , into the jungle . 
For several days he wandered aimlessly , nursing his spite and looking for some weak thing on which to vent his pent anger . 
It was in this state of mind that the horrible , man like beast , swinging from tree to tree , came suddenly upon two women in the jungle . 
He was right above them when he discovered them . 
One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm . 
Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat . 
But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid . 
The tribe had kept his women . 
He must find others to replace them . 
Esmeralda's scream of terror had mingled once with that of Jane , and then , as was Esmeralda's manner under stress of emergency which required presence of mind , she swooned . 
But Jane did not once lose consciousness . 
With what seemed to her marvelous rapidity the brute bore her through the forest , but still she did not cry out or struggle . 
The sudden advent of the ape had confused her to such an extent that she thought now that he was bearing her toward the beach . 
For this reason she conserved her energies and her voice until she could see that they had approached near enough to the camp to attract the succor she craved . 
She could not have known it , but she was being borne farther and farther into the impenetrable jungle . 
And then he was gone again into the swaying trees , following the high flung spoor which no other human eye could have detected , much less translated . 
Nearer the center of the tree , where the signs of passage are fainter , the direction is plainly marked . 
Here , on this branch , a caterpillar has been crushed by the fugitive's great foot , and Tarzan knows instinctively where that same foot would touch in the next stride . 
Here he looks to find a tiny particle of the demolished larva , ofttimes not more than a speck of moisture . 
Again , a minute bit of bark has been upturned by the scraping hand , and the direction of the break indicates the direction of the passage . 
Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast . 
To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way . 
But strongest of all is the scent , for Tarzan is pursuing up the wind , and his trained nostrils are as sensitive as a hound's . 
There are those who believe that the lower orders are specially endowed by nature with better olfactory nerves than man , but it is merely a matter of development . 
Man's survival does not hinge so greatly upon the perfection of his senses . 
Not so with Tarzan of the Apes . 
From early infancy his survival had depended upon acuteness of eyesight , hearing , smell , touch , and taste far more than upon the more slowly developed organ of reason . 
He still grasped Jane in one great arm as Tarzan bounded like a leopard into the arena which nature had provided for this primeval like battle . 
To Jane the strange apparition of this god like man was as wine to sick nerves . 
But as Terkoz pushed her roughly aside to meet Tarzan's charge , and she saw the great proportions of the ape and the mighty muscles and the fierce fangs , her heart quailed . 
How could any vanquish such a mighty antagonist ? Like two charging bulls they came together , and like two wolves sought each other's throat . 
Against the long canines of the ape was pitted the thin blade of the man's knife . 
And Tarzan ? He did what no red blooded man needs lessons in doing . 
He took his woman in his arms and smothered her upturned , panting lips with kisses . 
For a moment Jane lay there with half closed eyes . 
For a moment the first in her young life she knew the meaning of love . 
Tarzan had been surprised when he had found the girl he had learned to love after a vague and abstract manner a willing prisoner in his arms . 
Now he was surprised that she repulsed him . 
He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm . 
She turned upon him like a tigress , striking his great breast with her tiny hands . 
Tarzan could not understand it . 
Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm , lithe form close pressed to his . 
Again he laid his hand upon her arm . 
And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done . 
He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle . 
Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon . 
Clayton was the first to rush out , and there , beyond the harbor's mouth , he saw two vessels lying at anchor . 
One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser . 
Both vessels lay at a considerable distance from shore , and it was doubtful if their glasses would locate the waving hats of the little party far in between the harbor's points . 
It seemed an age to him , as to those who waited breathlessly behind , ere he reached the great pile of dry branches and underbrush . 
Presently Clayton saw the two ships come about again and while the Arrow lay drifting quietly on the ocean , the cruiser steamed slowly back toward shore . 
At some distance away she stopped , and a boat was lowered and dispatched toward the beach . 
As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out . 
Monsieur Clayton , I presume ? he asked . 
Thank God , you have come ! was Clayton's reply . 
And it may be that it is not too late even now . 
What do you mean , Monsieur ? asked the officer . 
Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her . 
MON DIEU ! exclaimed the officer , sadly . 
Yesterday and it would not have been too late . 
Today and it may be better that the poor lady were never found . 
It is horrible , Monsieur . 
Soon the entire party had landed where stood Professor Porter , Mr. Philander and the weeping Esmeralda . 
Not an officer or a man was there of those brave and sympathetic Frenchmen who did not quickly beg leave to be one of the expedition . 
The commander selected twenty men and two officers , Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier . 
A boat was dispatched to the cruiser for provisions , ammunition , and carbines the men were already armed with revolvers . 
They had kept her hull up until sunset , firing several shots after her , but the next morning she was nowhere to be seen . 
As they steamed nearer to the derelict they were surprised to note that it was the same vessel that had run from them a few weeks earlier . 
Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow . 
The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling . 
A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck , the living intermingled with the dead . 
Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves . 
The prize crew soon had the vessel under proper sail once more and the living members of the ill starred company carried below to their hammocks . 
The dead were wrapped in tarpaulins and lashed on deck to be identified by their comrades before being consigned to the deep . 
None of the living was conscious when the Frenchmen reached the Arrow's deck . 
Even the poor devil who had waved the single despairing signal of distress had lapsed into unconsciousness before he had learned whether it had availed or not . 
He immediately signalled to the cruiser to send water , medicine , and provisions , and another boat made the perilous trip to the Arrow . 
When restoratives had been applied several of the men regained consciousness , and then the whole story was told . 
That part of it we know up to the sailing of the Arrow after the murder of Snipes , and the burial of his body above the treasure chest . 
They kept on a north northeasterly course for two days , when they were overtaken by a calm which lasted for nearly a week . 
Their water was gone , and in another day they would be without food . 
Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse . 
One man went mad and leaped overboard . 
Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood . 
When he died they threw him overboard also , though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board . 
Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts . 
Two days before they had been picked up by the cruiser they had become too weak to handle the vessel , and that same day three men died . 
On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured . 
All that day the men lay glaring at each other like beasts of prey , and the following morning two of the corpses lay almost entirely stripped of flesh . 
The men were but little stronger for their ghoulish repast , for the want of water was by far the greatest agony with which they had to contend . 
And then the cruiser had come . 
By the time the two parties had narrated their several adventures , the cruiser's boat had returned with supplies and arms for the expedition . 
So presently she gave up the futile effort and lay quietly , looking through half closed lids at the faces of the man who strode easily through the tangled undergrowth with her . 
The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty . 
A perfect type of the strongly masculine , unmarred by dissipation , or brutal or degrading passions . 
When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled , and smiles are the foundation of beauty . 
As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her . 
Once he looked down into her eyes and smiled , and the girl had to close her own to shut out the vision of that handsome , winning face . 
No , he could never harm her of that she was convinced when she translated the fine features and the frank , brave eyes above her into the chivalry which they proclaimed . 
Scarce a branch scraped against her , yet above and below , before and behind , the view presented naught but a solid mass of inextricably interwoven branches and creepers . 
As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts . 
Here was a problem the like of which he had never encountered , and he felt rather than reasoned that he must meet it as a man and not as an ape . 
Now he discovered himself speculating upon the fate which would have fallen to the girl had he not rescued her from Terkoz . 
He knew why the ape had not killed her , and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz . 
Though they had come many miles , it was still but midafternoon , and the amphitheater was bathed in the half light which filtered through the maze of encircling foliage . 
The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting . 
The myriad noises of the jungle seemed far distant and hushed to a mere echo of blurred sounds , rising and falling like the surf upon a remote shore . 
As she watched him from beneath half closed lids , Tarzan crossed the little circular clearing toward the trees upon the further side . 
She noted the graceful majesty of his carriage , the perfect symmetry of his magnificent figure and the poise of his well shaped head upon his broad shoulders . 
What a perfect creature ! There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior . 
Never , she thought had such a man strode the earth since God created the first in his own image . 
With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared . 
Jane wondered where he had gone . 
Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle ? She glanced nervously about . 
Every vine and bush seemed but the lurking place of some huge and horrible beast waiting to bury gleaming fangs into her soft flesh . 
Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body . 
She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear . 
She heard a sudden , slight sound behind her . 
With a cry she sprang to her feet and turned to face her end . 
There stood Tarzan , his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit . 
Jane reeled and would have fallen , had not Tarzan , dropping his burden , caught her in his arms . 
She did not lose consciousness , but she clung tightly to him , shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer . 
Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead , and she did not move , but closed her eyes and sighed . 
She could not analyze her feelings , nor did she wish to attempt it . 
She wondered and then she smiled . 
Together and in silence they ate , occasionally stealing sly glances at one another , until finally Jane broke into a merry laugh in which Tarzan joined . 
I wish you spoke English , said the girl . 
Tarzan shook his head , and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes . 
Then Jane tried speaking to him in French , and then in German but she had to laugh at her own blundering attempt at the latter tongue . 
Anyway , she said to him in English , you understand my German as well as they did in Berlin . 
Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be . 
He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin . 
He would act as he imagined the men in the books would have acted were they in his place . 
Only a feeling of loneliness came over her and she watched the point where he had disappeared , with longing eyes , awaiting his return . 
As before , she was appraised of his presence by a soft sound behind her , and turned to see him coming across the turf with a great armful of branches . 
Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns . 
Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand . 
Then he spread the ferns and grasses upon the ground in a soft flat bed , and above it leaned many branches together so that they met a few feet over its center . 
Upon these he spread layers of huge leaves of the great elephant's ear , and with more branches and more leaves he closed one end of the little shelter he had built . 
Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs . 
The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck , had been a source of much wonderment to Jane . 
She pointed to it now , and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her . 
She noticed too that the locket opened , and , pressing the hidden clasp , she saw the two halves spring apart to reveal in either section an ivory miniature . 
One was of a beautiful woman and the other might have been a likeness of the man who sat beside her , except for a subtle difference of expression that was scarcely definable . 
She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment . 
He reached out his hand for the locket and took it away from her , examining the likenesses within with unmistakable signs of surprise and new interest . 
His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them , nor imagined that the locket opened . 
Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces . 
Carefully he unwrapped it , removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand . 
Pointing to the miniature of the man within the locket he handed the photograph to Jane , holding the open locket beside it . 
Tarzan was looking at her with an expression of puzzled bewilderment in his eyes as she glanced up at him . 
He seemed to be framing a question with his lips . 
At length a simple explanation occurred to her . 
The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke , and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice . 
This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach . 
How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before . 
At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket . 
He could not fathom the meaning of the faces within , but he could read the interest and fascination upon the face of the live young creature by his side . 
She noticed that he was watching her and thinking that he wished his ornament again she held it out to him . 
He took it from her and taking the chain in his two hands he placed it about her neck , smiling at her expression of surprise at his unexpected gift . 
Jane shook her head vehemently and would have removed the golden links from about her throat , but Tarzan would not let her . 
Taking her hands in his , when she insisted upon it , he held them tightly to prevent her . 
At last she desisted and with a little laugh raised the locket to her lips . 
It was a stately and gallant little compliment performed with the grace and dignity of utter unconsciousness of self . 
For the first time in hours a feeling of fear swept over her , and Tarzan felt her draw away as though shrinking from him . 
Contact with this girl for half a day had left a very diferent Tarzan from the one on whom the morning's sun had risen . 
Now , in every fiber of his being , heredity spoke louder than training . 
So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety . 
He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first , again motioning her into the bower . 
The girl understood , and taking the long knife she entered and lay down upon the soft grasses while Tarzan of the Apes stretched himself upon the ground across the entrance . 
And thus the rising sun found them in the morning . 
Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind . 
And then a great wonderment arose in her heart a mighty wave of thankfulness and gratitude that though she had been in such terrible danger , yet she was unharmed . 
She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan . 
He was gone but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return . 
In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her . 
She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security . 
Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now . 
She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near by tree . 
As he caught her eyes upon him his face lighted with that frank and radiant smile that had won her confidence the day before . 
As he approached her Jane's heart beat faster and her eyes brightened as they had never done before at the approach of any man . 
He had again been gathering fruit and this he laid at the entrance of her bower . 
Once more they sat down together to eat . 
Jane commenced to wonder what his plans were . 
Would he take her back to the beach or would he keep her here ? Suddenly she realized that the matter did not seem to give her much concern . 
She could not understand it . 
When they had finished their breakfast Tarzan went to her bower and recovered his knife . 
The girl had entirely forgotten it . 
She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it . 
Motioning her to follow , Tarzan walked toward the trees at the edge of the arena , and taking her in one strong arm swung to the branches above . 
The girl knew that he was taking her back to her people , and she could not understand the sudden feeling of loneliness and sorrow which crept over her . 
For hours they swung slowly along . 
Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry . 
But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes . 
He drew back , shaking his head . 
The girl came close to him , looking up with pleading eyes . 
Somehow she could not bear the thought of his going back into the terrible jungle alone . 
Just an instant the girl hesitated , and then she realized the truth , and throwing her arms about his neck she drew his face to hers and kissed him unashamed . 
I love you I love you , she murmured . 
From far in the distance came the faint sound of many guns . 
Tarzan and Jane raised their heads . 
From the cabin came Mr. Philander and Esmeralda . 
From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor . 
Tarzan pointed toward the sounds , touched his breast and pointed again . 
He was going , and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger . 
Come back to me , she whispered . 
I shall wait for you always . 
He was gone and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin . 
Mr. Philander was the first to see her . 
It was dusk and Mr. Philander was very near sighted . 
Quickly , Esmeralda ! he cried . 
Let us seek safety within it is a lioness . 
Bless me ! Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr. Philander's vision . 
She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the door before he had finished pronouncing her name . 
He beat furiously upon the heavy portal . 
Esmeralda ! Esmeralda ! he shrieked . 
I am being devoured by a lion . 
Esmeralda thought that the noise upon the door was made by the lioness in her attempts to pursue her , so , after her custom , she fainted . 
Mr. Philander cast a frightened glance behind him . 
Horrors ! The thing was quite close now . 
He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin , and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof . 
At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind . 
If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one , according to Mr. Philander's faulty memory . 
So Mr. Philander lay as he had fallen , frozen into the horrid semblance of death . 
As his arms and legs had been extended stiffly upward as he came to earth upon his back the attitude of death was anything but impressive . 
Jane had been watching his antics in mild eyed surprise . 
Now she laughed a little choking gurgle of a laugh but it was enough . 
Mr. Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about . 
At length he discovered her . 
Bless me ! He scrambled to his feet and rushed toward her . 
He could not believe that it was she , and alive . 
Well , well , said Mr. Philander . 
Bless me ! I am so filled with surprise and exuberant delight at seeing you safe and well again that I scarcely know what I am saying , really . 
But come , tell me all that has happened to you . 
Noon found them but a few miles inland . 
They halted for a brief rest then , and after pushing on for a short distance further one of the men discovered a well marked trail . 
It was an old elephant track , and D'Arnot after consulting with Professor Porter and Clayton decided to follow it . 
The path wound through the jungle in a northeasterly direction , and along it the column moved in single file . 
Lieutenant D'Arnot was in the lead and moving at a quick pace , for the trail was comparatively open . 
D'Arnot gave a warning shout to his column as the blacks closed on him , but before he could draw his revolver he had been pinioned and dragged into the jungle . 
His cry had alarmed the sailors and a dozen of them sprang forward past Professor Porter , running up the trail to their officer's aid . 
They did not know the cause of his outcry , only that it was a warning of danger ahead . 
They had rushed past the spot where D'Arnot had been seized when a spear hurled from the jungle transfixed one of the men , and then a volley of arrows fell among them . 
Raising their rifles they fired into the underbrush in the direction from which the missiles had come . 
By this time the balance of the party had come up , and volley after volley was fired toward the concealed foe . 
It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard . 
In an instant they were in a hand to hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village . 
Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast . 
Queer African knives and French gun butts mingled for a moment in savage and bloody duels , but soon the natives fled into the jungle , leaving the Frenchmen to count their losses . 
Four of the twenty were dead , a dozen others were wounded , and Lieutenant D'Arnot was missing . 
Night was falling rapidly , and their predicament was rendered doubly worse when they could not even find the elephant trail which they had been following . 
There was but one thing to do , make camp where they were until daylight . 
Lieutenant Charpentier ordered a clearing made and a circular abatis of underbrush constructed about the camp . 
This work was not completed until long after dark , the men building a huge fire in the center of the clearing to give them light to work by . 
It was a sad and hungry party that lay through the long night praying for dawn . 
It was now dusk , but the watchers at the gate saw the approaching trio and distinguished one as a prisoner ere they reached the portals . 
A cry went up within the palisade . 
A great throng of women and children rushed out to meet the party . 
And then began for the French officer the most terrifying experience which man can encounter upon earth the reception of a white prisoner into a village of African cannibals . 
They fell upon D'Arnot tooth and nail , beating him with sticks and stones and tearing at him with claw like hands . 
Every vestige of clothing was torn from him , and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh . 
But not once did the Frenchman cry out in pain . 
He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture . 
But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had . 
Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner . 
He was to be saved for nobler sport than this , and the first wave of their passion having subsided they contented themselves with crying out taunts and insults and spitting upon him . 
Presently they reached the center of the village . 
There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released . 
Half fainting from pain and exhaustion , D'Arnot watched from beneath half closed lids what seemed but the vagary of delirium , or some horrid nightmare from which he must soon awake . 
The bestial faces , daubed with color the huge mouths and flabby hanging lips the yellow teeth , sharp filed the rolling , demon eyes the shining naked bodies the cruel spears . 
Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth he must indeed be dreaming . 
The savage , whirling bodies circled nearer . 
Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm . 
The sharp pain and the feel of hot , trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position . 
Another spear and then another touched him . 
He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set he would not cry out . 
He was a soldier of France , and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died . 
Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots . 
With Jane Porter's kisses still warm upon his lips he was swinging with incredible rapidity through the forest trees straight toward the village of Mbonga . 
He was not interested in the location of the encounter , for he judged that that would soon be over . 
Those who were killed he could not aid , those who escaped would not need his assistance . 
It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened . 
And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village . 
He knew , too , that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures . 
He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge . 
Night had fallen and he traveled high along the upper terrace where the gorgeous tropic moon lighted the dizzy pathway through the gently undulating branches of the tree tops . 
Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze . 
It lay to the right of his path . 
It must be the light from the camp fire the two men had built before they were attacked Tarzan knew nothing of the presence of the sailors . 
So sure was Tarzan of his jungle knowledge that he did not turn from his course , but passed the glare at a distance of a half mile . 
It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen . 
In a few minutes more Tarzan swung into the trees above Mbonga's village . 
Ah , he was not quite too late ! Or , was he ? He could not tell . 
The figure at the stake was very still , yet the black warriors were but pricking it . 
The death blow had not been struck . 
He could tell almost to a minute how far the dance had gone . 
There would still be life in it , but death then would be the only charity it craved . 
The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree . 
Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape man . 
The dancers halted as though turned to stone . 
The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks . 
It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires . 
A huge black , standing directly before him , lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand . 
Struggling and shrieking , his body , rolling from side to side , moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees . 
The blacks , their eyes protruding in horror , watched spellbound . 
He was a brave man , but he had felt the short hairs bristle upon the nape of his neck when that uncanny cry rose upon the air . 
As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there . 
The branches swayed as though under the weight of a man's body there was a crash and the black came sprawling to earth again , to lie very quietly where he had fallen . 
Immediately after him came a white body , but this one alighted erect . 
D'Arnot saw a clean limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him . 
What could it mean ? Who could it be ? Some new creature of torture and destruction , doubtless . 
His eyes never left the face of the advancing man . 
Nor did the other's frank , clear eyes waver beneath D'Arnot's fixed gaze . 
D'Arnot was reassured , but still without much hope , though he felt that that face could not mask a cruel heart . 
Without a word Tarzan of the Apes cut the bonds which held the Frenchman . 
Weak from suffering and loss of blood , he would have fallen but for the strong arm that caught him . 
He felt himself lifted from the ground . 
There was a sensation as of flying , and then he lost consciousness . 
Chapter The Search Party When dawn broke upon the little camp of Frenchmen in the heart of the jungle it found a sad and disheartened group . 
Charpentier had decided to return to camp for reinforcements , and then make an attempt to track down the natives and rescue D'Arnot . 
As the little party emerged from the jungle the first person that Professor Porter and Cecil Clayton saw was Jane , standing by the cabin door . 
Jane led him toward the cabin , and the Frenchmen turned toward the beach from which several of their fellows were advancing to meet them . 
Then Clayton turned back slowly toward the cabin . 
His heart was filled with happiness . 
The woman he loved was safe . 
He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared . 
To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable . 
As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out . 
When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him . 
Jane ! he cried , God has been good to us , indeed . 
Tell me how you escaped what form Providence took to save you for us . 
He had never before called her by her given name . 
Forty eight hours before it would have suffused Jane with a soft glow of pleasure to have heard that name from Clayton's lips now it frightened her . 
Mr. Clayton , she said quietly , extending her hand , first let me thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father . 
He has told me how noble and self sacrificing you have been . 
How can we repay you ! Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation , but he felt no misgivings on that score . 
She had been through so much . 
This was no time to force his love upon her , he quickly realized . 
I am already repaid , he said . 
Just to see you and Professor Porter both safe , well , and together again . 
I do not think that I could much longer have endured the pathos of his quiet and uncomplaining grief . 
It was the saddest experience of my life , Miss Porter and then , added to it , there was my own grief the greatest I have ever known . 
But his was so hopeless his was pitiful . 
The girl bowed her head . 
But love is a strange master , and human nature is still stranger , so she asked her question . 
Where is the forest man who went to rescue you ? Why did he not return ? I do not understand , said Clayton . 
Whom do you mean ? He who has saved each of us who saved me from the gorilla . 
Oh , cried Clayton , in surprise . 
It was he who rescued you ? You have not told me anything of your adventure , you know . 
But the wood man , she urged . 
Have you not seen him ? When we heard the shots in the jungle , very faint and far away , he left me . 
We had just reached the clearing , and he hurried off in the direction of the fighting . 
I know he went to aid you . 
Her tone was almost pleading her manner tense with suppressed emotion . 
Clayton could not but notice it , and he wondered , vaguely , why she was so deeply moved so anxious to know the whereabouts of this strange creature . 
We did not see him , he replied quietly . 
He did not join us . 
And then after a moment of thoughtful pause Possibly he joined his own tribe the men who attacked us . 
He did not know why he had said it , for he did not believe it . 
The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment . 
No ! she exclaimed vehemently , much too vehemently he thought . 
He is a strange , half savage creature of the jungle , Miss Porter . 
We know nothing of him . 
He neither speaks nor understands any European tongue and his ornaments and weapons are those of the West Coast savages . 
There are no other human beings than savages within hundreds of miles , Miss Porter . 
He must belong to the tribes which attacked us , or to some other equally savage he may even be a cannibal . 
I will not believe it , she half whispered . 
You shall see , she said , addressing Clayton , that he will come back and that he will prove that you are wrong . 
You do not know him as I do . 
I tell you that he is a gentleman . 
Possibly you are right , Miss Porter , he said , but I do not think that any of us need worry about our carrion eating acquaintance . 
The chances are that he is some half demented castaway who will forget us more quickly , but no more surely , than we shall forget him . 
He is only a beast of the jungle , Miss Porter . 
The girl did not answer , but she felt her heart shrivel within her . 
Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin . 
She tried to imagine her wood god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner . 
She saw him eating with his hands , tearing his food like a beast of prey , and wiping his greasy fingers upon his thighs . 
She saw him as she introduced him to her friends uncouth , illiterate a boor and the girl winced . 
She drew it out , holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear blurred eyes bent upon it . 
Then she raised it to her lips , and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns , sobbing . 
Then God make me a beast for , man or beast , I am yours . 
She did not see Clayton again that day . 
Esmeralda brought her supper to her , and she sent word to her father that she was suffering from the reaction following her adventure . 
The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot . 
There were two hundred armed men this time , with ten officers and two surgeons , and provisions for a week . 
They carried bedding and hammocks , the latter for transporting their sick and wounded . 
It was a determined and angry company a punitive expedition as well as one of relief . 
They reached the sight of the skirmish of the previous expedition shortly after noon , for they were now traveling a known trail and no time was lost in exploring . 
From there on the elephant track led straight to Mbonga's village . 
It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing . 
Lieutenant Charpentier , who was in command , immediately sent a portion of his force through the jungle to the opposite side of the village . 
Another detachment was dispatched to a point before the village gate , while he remained with the balance upon the south side of the clearing . 
For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle , waiting the signal . 
To them it seemed like hours . 
They could see natives in the fields , and others moving in and out of the village gate . 
At length the signal came a sharp rattle of musketry , and like one man , an answering volley tore from the jungle to the west and to the south . 
The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade . 
The French bullets mowed them down , and the French sailors bounded over their prostrate bodies straight for the village gate . 
Carefully they ransacked every hut and corner of the village , but no sign of D'Arnot could they find . 
At length all hope left them , and they prepared to camp for the night within the village . 
The prisoners were herded into three huts where they were heavily guarded . 
Sentries were posted at the barred gates , and finally the village was wrapped in the silence of slumber , except for the wailing of the native women for their dead . 
The next morning they set out upon the return march . 
Slowly the expedition retraced its steps of the preceding day . 
Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace . 
In eight of them lay the more seriously wounded , while two swung beneath the weight of the dead . 
Clayton and Lieutenant Charpentier brought up the rear of the column the Englishman silent in respect for the other's grief , for D'Arnot and Charpentier had been inseparable friends since boyhood . 
No , Monsieur , he said , D'Arnot would have chosen to die thus . 
I only grieve that I could not have died for him , or at least with him . 
I wish that you could have known him better , Monsieur . 
He was indeed an officer and a gentleman a title conferred on many , but deserved by so few . 
Clayton did not reply , but within him rose a new respect for Frenchmen which remained undimmed ever after . 
It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach . 
So it was a solemn party that awaited their coming , and few words were spoken as the dead and wounded men were tenderly placed in boats and rowed silently toward the cruiser . 
By the cabin door stood Jane . 
The poor lieutenant ? she asked . 
Did you find no trace of him ? We were too late , Miss Porter , he replied sadly . 
What had happened ? she asked . 
I cannot , Miss Porter , it is too horrible . 
You do not mean that they had tortured him ? she whispered . 
He was sorry ere the words were spoken though he did not know how cruelly they had cut the girl . 
His regret was for his baseless disloyalty to one who had saved the lives of every member of his party , and offered harm to none . 
The girl's head went high . 
There could be but one suitable reply to your assertion , Mr. Clayton , she said icily , and I regret that I am not a man , that I might make it . 
She turned quickly and entered the cabin . 
Clayton was an Englishman , so the girl had passed quite out of sight before he deduced what reply a man would have made . 
Upon my word , he said ruefully , she called me a liar . 
And I fancy I jolly well deserved it , he added thoughtfully . 
Clayton , my boy , I know you are tired out and unstrung , but that's no reason why you should make an ass of yourself . 
You'd better go to bed . 
Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition . 
MY DEAR MISS PORTER I had no reason to insinuate what I did . 
My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung which is no excuse at all . 
Please try and think that I did not say it . 
I would not have hurt YOU , above all others in the world . 
Say that you forgive me . 
A week ago that sentence would have filled her with delight , now it depressed her . 
She wished she had never met Clayton . 
She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god . 
No , she was glad . 
And there was that other note she had found in the grass before the cabin the day after her return from the jungle , the love note signed by Tarzan of the Apes . 
You make me so irritable , sleeping there peacefully when you know perfectly well that the world is filled with sorrow . 
Gaberelle ! screamed Esmeralda , sitting up . 
What is it now ? A hipponocerous ? Where is he , Miss Jane ? Nonsense , Esmeralda , there is nothing . 
You are bad enough asleep , but you are infinitely worse awake . 
Yes honey , but what's the matter with you , precious ? You acts sort of disgranulated this evening . 
Oh , Esmeralda , I'm just plain ugly to night , said the girl . 
Don't pay any attention to me that's a dear . 
Yes , honey now you go right to sleep . 
Your nerves are all on edge . 
What with all these ripotamuses and man eating geniuses that Mister Philander been telling about Lord , it ain't no wonder we all get nervous prosecution . 
Jane crossed the little room , laughing , and kissing the faithful woman , bid Esmeralda good night . 
When D'Arnot regained consciousness , he found himself lying upon a bed of soft ferns and grasses beneath a little A shaped shelter of boughs . 
At his feet an opening looked out upon a green sward , and at a little distance beyond was the dense wall of jungle and forest . 
Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time . 
At length he recollected the whole hideous scene at the stake , and finally recalled the strange white figure in whose arms he had sunk into oblivion . 
D'Arnot wondered what fate lay in store for him now . 
He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him . 
At length he fell into a quiet slumber , nor did he awake again until afternoon . 
The broad , muscular back was turned toward him , but , tanned though it was , D'Arnot saw that it was the back of a white man , and he thanked God . 
The man turned , and rising , came toward the shelter . 
His face was very handsome the handsomest , thought D'Arnot , that he had ever seen . 
Stooping , he crawled into the shelter beside the wounded officer , and placed a cool hand upon his forehead . 
D'Arnot spoke to him in French , but the man only shook his head sadly , it seemed to the Frenchman . 
Then D'Arnot tried English , but still the man shook his head . 
Italian , Spanish and German brought similar discouragement . 
D'Arnot knew a few words of Norwegian , Russian , Greek , and also had a smattering of the language of one of the West Coast negro tribes the man denied them all . 
After examining D'Arnot's wounds the man left the shelter and disappeared . 
In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd like vegetable filled with water . 
D'Arnot drank and ate a little . 
He was surprised that he had no fever . 
Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse , but the attempt was useless . 
Suddenly the man hastened from the shelter only to return a few minutes later with several pieces of bark and wonder of wonders a lead pencil . 
Squatting beside D'Arnot he wrote for a minute on the smooth inner surface of the bark then he handed it to the Frenchman . 
D'Arnot was astonished to see , in plain print like characters , a message in English I am Tarzan of the Apes . 
Who are you ? Can you read this language ? D'Arnot seized the pencil then he stopped . 
This strange man wrote English evidently he was an Englishman . 
Yes , said D'Arnot , I read English . 
First let me thank you for all that you have done for me . 
The man only shook his head and pointed to the pencil and the bark . 
MON DIEU ! cried D'Arnot . 
If you are English why is it then that you cannot speak English ? And then in a flash it came to him the man was a mute , possibly a deaf mute . 
So D'Arnot wrote a message on the bark , in English . 
I am Paul d'Arnot , Lieutenant in the navy of France . 
I thank you for what you have done for me . 
You have saved my life , and all that I have is yours . 
With a human being I have never spoken , except once with Jane Porter , by signs . 
This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words . 
It seemed incredible that there lived upon earth a full grown man who had never spoken with a fellow man , and still more preposterous that such a one could read and write . 
He looked again at Tarzan's message except once , with Jane Porter . 
That was the American girl who had been carried into the jungle by a gorilla . 
A sudden light commenced to dawn on D'Arnot this then was the gorilla . 
He seized the pencil and wrote Where is Jane Porter ? And Tarzan replied , below Back with her people in the cabin of Tarzan of the Apes . 
She is not dead then ? Where was she ? What happened to her ? She is not dead . 
She was taken by Terkoz to be his wife but Tarzan of the Apes took her away from Terkoz and killed him before he could harm her . 
None in all the jungle may face Tarzan of the Apes in battle , and live . 
I am Tarzan of the Apes mighty fighter . 
D'Arnot wrote I am glad she is safe . 
It pains me to write , I will rest a while . 
And then Tarzan Yes , rest . 
When you are well I shall take you back to your people . 
For many days D'Arnot lay upon his bed of soft ferns . 
The second day a fever had come and D'Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die . 
An idea came to him . 
He wondered why he had not thought of it before . 
Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark , wrote I had thought of that the first day but I dared not . 
The great apes come often to this spot , and if they found you here , wounded and alone , they would kill you . 
D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes . 
He did not wish to die but he felt that he was going , for the fever was mounting higher and higher . 
That night he lost consciousness . 
For three days he was in delirium , and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds . 
On the fourth day the fever broke as suddenly as it had come , but it left D'Arnot a shadow of his former self , and very weak . 
Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd . 
Two days later , D'Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater , Tarzan's strong arm about him to keep him from falling . 
They sat beneath the shade of a great tree , and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse . 
The Frenchman wrote little lessons for him in English and had Tarzan repeat them in French , but as a literal translation was usually very poor French Tarzan was often confused . 
On the third day after the fever broke Tarzan wrote a message asking D'Arnot if he felt strong enough to be carried back to the cabin . 
Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot , for he longed to see Jane again . 
D'Arnot , only too willing to attempt the journey , wrote But you cannot carry me all the distance through this tangled forest . 
MAIS OUI , he said , and D'Arnot laughed aloud to hear the phrase that he used so often glide from Tarzan's tongue . 
So they set out , D'Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman . 
No one was in sight outside the cabin , and D'Arnot was perplexed to note that neither the cruiser nor the Arrow was at anchor in the bay . 
An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot , which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin . 
Neither spoke , yet both knew before they opened the closed door what they would find beyond . 
Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges . 
It was as they had feared . 
The men turned and looked at one another . 
A great bitterness rose in his heart . 
He would go away , far into the jungle and join his tribe . 
Never would he see one of his own kind again , nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin . 
He would leave that forever behind him with the great hopes he had nursed there of finding his own race and becoming a man among men . 
And the Frenchman ? D'Arnot ? What of him ? He could get along as Tarzan had . 
Tarzan did not want to see him more . 
He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane . 
As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding , D'Arnot had entered the cabin . 
Many comforts he saw that had been left behind . 
They must intend returning , thought D'Arnot . 
One was in a strong masculine hand and was unsealed . 
The other , in a woman's hand , was sealed . 
Here are two messages for you , Tarzan of the Apes , cried D'Arnot , turning toward the door but his companion was not there . 
D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out . 
Tarzan was nowhere in sight . 
He called aloud but there was no response . 
MON DIEU ! exclaimed D'Arnot , he has left me . 
He has gone back into his jungle and left me here alone . 
The man had been hard hit D'Arnot realized it now but why ? He could not understand . 
The Frenchman looked about him . 
The loneliness and the horror of the place commenced to get on his nerves already weakened by the ordeal of suffering and sickness he had passed through . 
And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe . 
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed . 
He felt that he was running away from himself that by hurtling through the forest like a frightened squirrel he was escaping from his own thoughts . 
But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him . 
He passed above the sinuous body of Sabor , the lioness , going in the opposite direction toward the cabin , thought Tarzan . 
What could D'Arnot do against Sabor or if Bolgani , the gorilla , should come upon him or Numa , the lion , or cruel Sheeta ? Tarzan paused in his flight . 
What are you , Tarzan ? he asked aloud . 
If you are a man , you will return to protect your kind . 
You will not run away from one of your own people , because one of them has run away from you . 
D'Arnot closed the cabin door . 
Even brave men , and D'Arnot was a brave man , are sometimes frightened by solitude . 
He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach . 
Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan . 
Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily . 
We have harmed nothing , but have left many things for you which may add to your comfort and safety here in your lonely home . 
Never to return , muttered D'Arnot , and threw himself face downward upon the cot . 
An hour later he started up listening . 
Something was at the door trying to enter . 
D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder . 
Dusk was falling , and the interior of the cabin was very dark but the man could see the latch moving from its place . 
He felt his hair rising upon his scalp . 
Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond . 
D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door and then he pulled the trigger . 
Your officer , Captain Dufranne , is one of them , and the forest man who has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other . 
Even the soldiers of my own dear South looted not only the living but the dead . 
It is strong circumstantial evidence , I will admit , but it is not positive proof . 
Possibly your forest man , himself was captured or killed by the savages , suggested Captain Dufranne . 
You do not know him , she replied , a little thrill of pride setting her nerves a tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own . 
I admit that he would be worth waiting for , this superman of yours , laughed the captain . 
I most certainly should like to see him . 
Then wait for him , my dear captain , urged the girl , for I intend doing so . 
The Frenchman would have been a very much surprised man could he have interpreted the true meaning of the girl's words . 
The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached , and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane . 
We were just discussing poor Paul's fate , said Captain Dufranne . 
Miss Porter insists that we have no absolute proof of his death nor have we . 
Jane shot a quick glance at Clayton . 
It seems vastly more reasonable , said Professor Porter . 
I do not agree with you , objected Mr. Philander . 
He had ample opportunity to harm us himself , or to lead his people against us . 
Instead , during our long residence here , he has been uniformly consistent in his role of protector and provider . 
That is true , interjected Clayton , yet we must not overlook the fact that except for himself the only human beings within hundreds of miles are savage cannibals . 
It seems improbable then that he is not connected with them , remarked the captain possibly a member of this tribe . 
You are judging him according to your own standards , gentlemen , said Jane . 
He has certainly won a loyal champion , Miss Porter , said Captain Dufranne , laughing . 
You would not wonder that I defend him , said the girl , could you have seen him as I saw him , battling in my behalf with that huge hairy brute . 
Could you have seen him charge the monster as a bull might charge a grizzly absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation you would have believed him more than human . 
Could you have seen those mighty muscles knotting under the brown skin could you have seen them force back those awful fangs you too would have thought him invincible . 
And could you have seen the chivalrous treatment which he accorded a strange girl of a strange race , you would feel the same absolute confidence in him that I feel . 
You have won your suit , my fair pleader , cried the captain . 
This court finds the defendant not guilty , and the cruiser shall wait a few days longer that he may have an opportunity to come and thank the divine Portia . 
For the Lord's sake honey , cried Esmeralda . 
Why , Esmeralda ! You should be ashamed of yourself , cried Jane . 
He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here . 
I expect he be mighty peevish when he find we ain't got no more sense than to stay right here after he done give us the chance to get away . 
I hoped I'd never have to sleep in this here geological garden another night and listen to all them lonesome noises that come out of that jumble after dark . 
I don't blame you a bit , Esmeralda , said Clayton , and you certainly did hit it off right when you called them lonesome' noises . 
I never have been able to find the right word for them but that's it , don't you know , lonesome noises . 
You and Esmeralda had better go and live on the cruiser , said Jane , in fine scorn . 
Those noises at night make the hair on my head bristle . 
I suppose that I should be ashamed to admit it , but it's the truth . 
I don't know about that , said Lieutenant Charpentier . 
MON DIEU ! I shall see them in the dark forever the eyes that you see , and those that you don't see , but feel ah , they are the worst . 
All were silent for a moment , and then Jane spoke . 
And he is out there , she said , in an awe hushed whisper . 
Those eyes will be glaring at him to night , and at your comrade Lieutenant D'Arnot . 
Captain Dufranne is willing to remain , and for my part I am perfectly willing , perfectly willing as I always have been to humor your childish whims . 
We can utilize the morrow in recovering the chest , Professor , suggested Mr. Philander . 
Quite so , quite so , Mr. Philander , I had almost forgotten the treasure , exclaimed Professor Porter . 
Possibly we can borrow some men from Captain Dufranne to assist us , and one of the prisoners to point out the location of the chest . 
Most assuredly , my dear Professor , we are all yours to command , said the captain . 
At the end of that time it was to be assumed that D'Arnot was truly dead , and that the forest man would not return while they remained . 
Then the two vessels were to leave with all the party . 
Where is the treasure ? he cried to Clayton , while yet a hundred feet separated them . 
Gone , he said , as he neared the professor . 
Gone ! It cannot be . 
Who could have taken it ? cried Professor Porter . 
God only knows , Professor , replied Clayton . 
And then our spades showed us that SOMETHING had been buried beneath the corpse , for a hole had been there and it had been filled with loose earth . 
But who could have taken it ? repeated Professor Porter . 
I do not know that you would suspect our men , but I am glad that there is now no chance for suspicion to fall on them , he concluded . 
It would never have occurred to me to suspect the men to whom we owe so much , replied Professor Porter , graciously . 
I would as soon suspect my dear Clayton here , or Mr. Philander . 
The Frenchmen smiled , both officers and sailors . 
It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds . 
The treasure has been gone for some time , continued Clayton . 
There must have been several in the party , said Jane , who had joined them . 
You remember that it took four men to carry it . 
By jove ! cried Clayton . 
It must have been done by a party of blacks . 
Probably one of them saw the men bury the chest and then returned immediately after with a party of his friends , and carried it off . 
Speculation is futile , said Professor Porter sadly . 
We shall never see it again , nor the treasure that was in it . 
Only Jane knew what the loss meant to her father , and none there knew what it meant to her . 
Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow . 
Jane would have begged for a further reprieve , had it not been that she too had begun to believe that her forest lover would return no more . 
In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears . 
The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will . 
That he was a cannibal she would not believe , but that he was an adopted member of some savage tribe at length seemed possible to her . 
She would not admit that he could be dead . 
It was impossible to believe that that perfect body , so filled with triumphant life , could ever cease to harbor the vital spark as soon believe that immortality were dust . 
As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts , others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her . 
If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife a dozen of them perhaps and wild , half caste children . 
The girl shuddered , and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad . 
And at the last minute she left a message for him , to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes . 
She was the last to leave the cabin , returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat . 
But if I did not believe , still should I love . 
Had you come back for me , and had there been no other way , I would have gone into the jungle with you forever . 
Chapter The Outpost of the World With the report of his gun D'Arnot saw the door fly open and the figure of a man pitch headlong within onto the cabin floor . 
With a cry of anguish D'Arnot sprang to the ape man's side , and kneeling , lifted the latter's head in his arms calling Tarzan's name aloud . 
There was no response , and then D'Arnot placed his ear above the man's heart . 
To his joy he heard its steady beating beneath . 
Carefully he lifted Tarzan to the cot , and then , after closing and bolting the door , he lighted one of the lamps and examined the wound . 
The bullet had struck a glancing blow upon the skull . 
There was an ugly flesh wound , but no signs of a fracture of the skull . 
D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief , and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face . 
Soon the cool water revived him , and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot . 
Tarzan , after reading the message , sat on the edge of the couch and laughed . 
D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him . 
Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face . 
The second one he turned over and over , searching for an opening he had never seen a sealed envelope before . 
At length he handed it to D'Arnot . 
The Frenchman had been watching him , and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope . 
How strange it seemed that to a full grown white man an envelope was a mystery . 
D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan . 
That you never came to make friends with us has been a great regret to us . 
We should have liked so much to have seen and thanked our host . 
There is another I should like to thank also , but he did not come back , though I cannot believe that he is dead . 
I do not know his name . 
He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast . 
If you know him and can speak his language carry my thanks to him , and tell him that I waited seven days for him to return . 
Tell him , also , that in my home in America , in the city of Baltimore , there will always be a welcome for him if he cares to come . 
I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin . 
But know that I am always your friend , JANE PORTER . 
Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour . 
It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same . 
I have given my heart to another , he repeated over and over again to himself . 
D'Arnot extinguished the lamp , and lay down upon the cot . 
For a week they did little but rest , D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French . 
At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily . 
One night , as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring , Tarzan turned to D'Arnot . 
Where is America ? he said . 
D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest . 
Many thousands of miles across the ocean , he replied . 
Why ? I am going there . 
It is impossible , my friend , he said . 
Tarzan rose , and , going to one of the cupboards , returned with a well thumbed geography . 
Turning to a map of the world , he said I have never quite understood all this explain it to me , please . 
Now point out America , said Tarzan . 
And as D'Arnot placed his finger upon North America , Tarzan smiled and laid his palm upon the page , spanning the great ocean that lay between the two continents . 
You see it is not so very far , he said scarce the width of my hand . 
How could he make the man understand ? Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa . 
This little mark , he said , is many times larger upon this map than your cabin is upon the earth . 
Do you see now how very far it is ? Tarzan thought for a long time . 
Do any white men live in Africa ? he asked . 
Where are the nearest ? D'Arnot pointed out a spot on the shore just north of them . 
So close ? asked Tarzan , in surprise . 
Yes , said D'Arnot but it is not close . 
Have they big boats to cross the ocean ? Yes . 
We shall go there to morrow , announced Tarzan . 
Again D'Arnot smiled and shook his head . 
We should die long before we reached them . 
Do you wish to stay here then forever ? asked Tarzan . 
Then we shall start to morrow . 
I do not like it here longer . 
I should rather die than remain here . 
Well , answered D'Arnot , with a shrug , I do not know , my friend , but that I also would rather die than remain here . 
If you go , I shall go with you . 
It is settled then , said Tarzan . 
I shall start for America to morrow . 
How will you get to America without money ? asked D'Arnot . 
What is money ? inquired Tarzan . 
It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly . 
How do men get money ? he asked at last . 
I will work for it , then . 
No , my friend , returned D'Arnot , you need not worry about money , nor need you work for it . 
I have enough money for two enough for twenty . 
Much more than is good for one man and you shall have all you need if ever we reach civilization . 
So on the following day they started north along the shore . 
Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition , beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils . 
The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance , so he threw his away . 
But you must learn to eat cooked food , my friend , remonstrated D'Arnot . 
No civilized men eat raw flesh . 
There will be time enough when I reach civilization , said Tarzan . 
I do not like the things and they only spoil the taste of good meat . 
For a month they traveled north . 
Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days . 
They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts . 
Their journey was a miracle of ease . 
Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly . 
Then D'Arnot would expostulate with him , saying You must not eat like a brute , Tarzan , while I am trying to make a gentleman of you . 
MON DIEU ! Gentlemen do not thus it is terrible . 
Tarzan would grin sheepishly and pick up his knife and fork again , but at heart he hated them . 
It must be the treasure chest of Professor Porter , said D'Arnot . 
It is too bad , but of course you did not know . 
To morrow we shall go back after it , he announced to D'Arnot . 
Go back ? exclaimed D'Arnot . 
But , my dear fellow , we have now been three weeks upon the march . 
It must be done , my friend , insisted Tarzan . 
You may go on toward civilization , and I will return for the treasure . 
I can go very much faster alone . 
I have a better plan , Tarzan , exclaimed D'Arnot . 
We shall go on together to the nearest settlement , and there we will charter a boat and sail back down the coast for the treasure and so transport it easily . 
That will be safer and quicker and also not require us to be separated . 
What do you think of that plan ? Very well , said Tarzan . 
When I see how helpless you are , D'Arnot , I often wonder how the human race has escaped annihilation all these ages which you tell me about . 
Why , Sabor , single handed , could exterminate a thousand of you . 
You will think more highly of your genus when you have seen its armies and navies , its great cities , and its mighty engineering works . 
Then you will realize that it is mind , and not muscle , that makes the human animal greater than the mighty beasts of your jungle . 
But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity . 
Even Kala , my mother , could never plan ahead . 
Then you knew your mother , Tarzan ? asked D'Arnot , in surprise . 
She was a great , fine ape , larger than I , and weighing twice as much . 
And your father ? asked D'Arnot . 
I did not know him . 
Kala told me he was a white ape , and hairless like myself . 
I know now that he must have been a white man . 
D'Arnot looked long and earnestly at his companion . 
Tarzan , he said at length , it is impossible that the ape , Kala , was your mother . 
Have you not the slightest clue to your past ? Not the slightest , replied Tarzan . 
Possibly you can read it . 
Tarzan fished the little black diary from the bottom of his quiver , and handed it to his companion . 
D'Arnot glanced at the title page . 
It is the diary of John Clayton , Lord Greystoke , an English nobleman , and it is written in French , he said . 
At times his voice broke , and he was forced to stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines . 
Occasionally he glanced at Tarzan but the ape man sat upon his haunches , like a carven image , his eyes fixed upon the ground . 
Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even sadder than the rest . 
One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit . 
To day our little boy is six months old . 
He is sitting in Alice's lap beside the table where I am writing a happy , healthy , perfect child . 
And there , on the margin of the page , were the partially blurred imprints of four wee fingers and the outer half of the thumb . 
When D'Arnot had finished the diary the two men sat in silence for some minutes . 
Well ! Tarzan of the Apes , what think you ? asked D'Arnot . 
Does not this little book clear up the mystery of your parentage ? Why man , you are Lord Greystoke . 
The book speaks of but one child , he replied . 
I am afraid that Kala spoke the truth , he concluded sadly . 
A week later the two men came suddenly upon a clearing in the forest . 
In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade . 
Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working . 
The two halted at the edge of the jungle . 
Tarzan fitted his bow with a poisoned arrow , but D'Arnot placed a hand upon his arm . 
What would you do , Tarzan ? he asked . 
They will try to kill us if they see us , replied Tarzan . 
I prefer to be the killer . 
Maybe they are friends , suggested D'Arnot . 
They are black , was Tarzan's only reply . 
And again he drew back his shaft . 
You must not , Tarzan ! cried D'Arnot . 
White men do not kill wantonly . 
MON DIEU ! but you have much to learn . 
I pity the ruffian who crosses you , my wild man , when I take you to Paris . 
I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the guillotine . 
Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled . 
I do not know why I should kill the blacks back there in my jungle , yet not kill them here . 
Do not assume that men are your enemies until they prove it . 
Behind him came D'Arnot , clothed in some garments which had been discarded at the cabin by Clayton when the officers of the French cruiser had fitted him out in more presentable fashion . 
Presently one of the blacks looked up , and beholding Tarzan , turned , shrieking , toward the palisade . 
Stop , Tarzan ! cried D'Arnot . 
He thinks we are enemies . 
Tarzan dropped into a walk , and together he and D'Arnot advanced toward the white man by the gate . 
The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment . 
What manner of men are you ? he asked , in French . 
White men , replied D'Arnot . 
We have been lost in the jungle for a long time . 
The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand . 
I am Father Constantine of the French Mission here , he said , and I am glad to welcome you . 
Father Constantine took the hand which Tarzan extended in imitation of the priest's act , while the latter took in the superb physique and handsome face in one quick , keen glance . 
And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization . 
The knife and fork , so contemptuously flung aside a month before , Tarzan now manipulated as exquisitely as did the polished D'Arnot . 
God made you a gentleman at heart , my friend , D'Arnot had said but we want His works to show upon the exterior also . 
As soon as they had reached the little port , D'Arnot had cabled his government of his safety , and requested a three months' leave , which had been granted . 
During their stay at the coast town Monsieur Tarzan became the wonder of both whites and blacks because of several occurrences which to Tarzan seemed the merest of nothings . 
Mounting the broad steps , with brandished knife , the Negro made straight for a party of four men sitting at a table sipping the inevitable absinthe . 
Shouting in alarm , the four took to their heels , and then the black spied Tarzan . 
With a roar he charged the ape man , while half a hundred heads peered from sheltering windows and doorways to witness the butchering of the poor Frenchman by the giant black . 
Tarzan met the rush with the fighting smile that the joy of battle always brought to his lips . 
As the Negro closed upon him , steel muscles gripped the black wrist of the uplifted knife hand , and a single swift wrench left the hand dangling below a broken bone . 
On another occasion as Tarzan and D'Arnot sat at dinner with a number of other whites , the talk fell upon lions and lion hunting . 
D'Arnot and Tarzan had agreed that his past be kept secret , and so none other than the French officer knew of the ape man's familiarity with the beasts of the jungle . 
Monsieur Tarzan has not expressed himself , said one of the party . 
Enough to know that each of you are right in your judgment of the characteristics of the lions you have met . 
But one might as well judge all blacks by the fellow who ran amuck last week , or decide that all whites are cowards because one has met a cowardly white . 
There is as much individuality among the lower orders , gentlemen , as there is among ourselves . 
Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over timid he runs away from us . 
To morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother , and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle . 
For myself , I always assume that a lion is ferocious , and so I am never caught off my guard . 
There would be little pleasure in hunting , retorted the first speaker , if one is afraid of the thing he hunts . 
Tarzan afraid ! I do not exactly understand what you mean by fear , said Tarzan . 
And a piece of rope , added Tarzan . 
Just then the deep roar of a lion sounded from the distant jungle , as though to challenge whoever dared enter the lists with him . 
There is your opportunity , Monsieur Tarzan , bantered the Frenchman . 
I am not hungry , said Tarzan simply . 
The men laughed , all but D'Arnot . 
He alone knew that a savage beast had spoken its simple reason through the lips of the ape man . 
But you are afraid , just as any of us would be , to go out there naked , armed only with a knife and a piece of rope , said the banterer . 
Is it not so ? No , replied Tarzan . 
Only a fool performs any act without reason . 
Five thousand francs is a reason , said the other . 
I wager you that amount you cannot bring back a lion from the jungle under the conditions we have named naked and armed only with a knife and a piece of rope . 
Tarzan glanced toward D'Arnot and nodded his head . 
Make it ten thousand , said D'Arnot . 
Done , replied the other . 
I shall have to leave my clothes at the edge of the settlement , so that if I do not return before daylight I shall have something to wear through the streets . 
You are not going now , exclaimed the wagerer at night ? Why not ? asked Tarzan . 
Numa walks abroad at night it will be easier to find him . 
No , said the other , I do not want your blood upon my hands . 
It will be foolhardy enough if you go forth by day . 
I shall go now , replied Tarzan , and went to his room for his knife and rope . 
The men accompanied him to the edge of the jungle , where he left his clothes in a small storehouse . 
But when he would have entered the blackness of the undergrowth they tried to dissuade him and the wagerer was most insistent of all that he abandon his foolhardy venture . 
Tarzan laughed , and in another moment the jungle had swallowed him . 
The men stood silent for some moments and then slowly turned and walked back to the hotel veranda . 
Tarzan had no sooner entered the jungle than he took to the trees , and it was with a feeling of exultant freedom that he swung once more through the forest branches . 
This was life ! Ah , how he loved it ! Civilization held nothing like this in its narrow and circumscribed sphere , hemmed in by restrictions and conventionalities . 
Even clothes were a hindrance and a nuisance . 
At last he was free . 
He had not realized what a prisoner he had been . 
How easy it would be to circle back to the coast , and then make toward the south and his own jungle and cabin . 
Now he caught the scent of Numa , for he was traveling up wind . 
Presently his quick ears detected the familiar sound of padded feet and the brushing of a huge , fur clad body through the undergrowth . 
Tarzan came quietly above the unsuspecting beast and silently stalked him until he came into a little patch of moonlight . 
Then with his foot upon the carcass of Numa , he raised his voice in the awesome victory cry of his savage tribe . 
For a moment Tarzan stood irresolute , swayed by conflicting emotions of loyalty to D'Arnot and a mighty lust for the freedom of his own jungle . 
At last the vision of a beautiful face , and the memory of warm lips crushed to his dissolved the fascinating picture he had been drawing of his old life . 
The ape man threw the warm carcass of Numa across his shoulders and took to the trees once more . 
The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour , almost in silence . 
They had tried ineffectually to converse on various subjects , and always the thing uppermost in the mind of each had caused the conversation to lapse . 
MON DIEU , said the wagerer at length , I can endure it no longer . 
I am going into the jungle with my express and bring back that mad man . 
I will go with you , said one . 
And I And I And I , chorused the others . 
As though the suggestion had broken the spell of some horrid nightmare they hastened to their various quarters , and presently were headed toward the jungle each one heavily armed . 
God ! What was that ? suddenly cried one of the party , an Englishman , as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears . 
I heard the same thing once before , said a Belgian , when I was in the gorilla country . 
My carriers said it was the cry of a great bull ape who has made a kill . 
The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions , but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat . 
But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men men accustomed to hunting big game . 
Incidentally , he had won ten thousand francs , for D'Arnot insisted that he keep it all . 
It had become evident to Tarzan that without money one must die . 
Shortly after the episode of the lion hunt , D'Arnot succeeded in chartering an ancient tub for the coastwise trip to Tarzan's land locked harbor . 
It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea . 
Late the next day he returned , bearing the great chest upon his shoulder , and at sunrise the little vessel worked through the harbor's mouth and took up her northward journey . 
Three weeks later Tarzan and D'Arnot were passengers on board a French steamer bound for Lyons , and after a few days in that city D'Arnot took Tarzan to Paris . 
One of the first things which D'Arnot accomplished after their arrival was to arrange to visit a high official of the police department , an old friend and to take Tarzan with him . 
Adroitly D'Arnot led the conversation from point to point until the policeman had explained to the interested Tarzan many of the methods in vogue for apprehending and identifying criminals . 
Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science . 
From infancy to senility the fingerprints of an individual change only in size , except as injuries alter the loops and whorls . 
But if imprints have been taken of the thumb and four fingers of both hands one must needs lose all entirely to escape identification . 
It is marvelous , exclaimed D'Arnot . 
I wonder what the lines upon my own fingers may resemble . 
We can soon see , replied the police officer , and ringing a bell he summoned an assistant to whom he issued a few directions . 
The man left the room , but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk . 
Now , said the officer , you shall have your fingerprints in a second . 
He drew from the little case a square of plate glass , a little tube of thick ink , a rubber roller , and a few snowy white cards . 
Place the four fingers of your right hand upon the glass , thus , he said to D'Arnot . 
Now place them in just the same position upon this card , here , no a little to the right . 
We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand . 
Now the same with the left . 
Come , Tarzan , cried D'Arnot , let's see what your whorls look like . 
Tarzan complied readily , asking many questions of the officer during the operation . 
Do fingerprints show racial characteristics ? he asked . 
Could you determine , for example , solely from fingerprints whether the subject was Negro or Caucasian ? I think not , replied the officer . 
Could the finger prints of an ape be detected from those of a man ? Probably , because the ape's would be far simpler than those of the higher organism . 
But a cross between an ape and a man might show the characteristics of either progenitor ? continued Tarzan . 
Yes , I should think likely , responded the official but the science has not progressed sufficiently to render it exact enough in such matters . 
I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals . 
No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits . 
It is very doubtful if any single fingerprint will ever be exactly duplicated by any finger other than the one which originally made it . 
Does the comparison require much time or labor ? asked D'Arnot . 
Ordinarily but a few moments , if the impressions are distinct . 
D'Arnot drew a little black book from his pocket and commenced turning the pages . 
Tarzan looked at the book in surprise . 
How did D'Arnot come to have his book ? Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges . 
He handed the open book to the policeman . 
Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer . 
The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks . 
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair , but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back , smiling . 
D'Arnot looked at him in surprise . 
The policeman looked up in astonishment . 
Go ahead , captain , with your examination , said D'Arnot , we will tell you the story later provided Monsieur Tarzan is agreeable . 
But you are mad , my dear D'Arnot , he insisted . 
Those little fingers are buried on the west coast of Africa . 
I do not know as to that , Tarzan , replied D'Arnot . 
I do not even consider her , replied D'Arnot . 
The friends had walked to the broad window overlooking the boulevard as they talked . 
For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath , each wrapped in his own thoughts . 
It takes some time to compare finger prints , thought D'Arnot , turning to look at the police officer . 
To his astonishment he saw the official leaning back in his chair hastily scanning the contents of the little black diary . 
The policeman looked up , and , catching his eye , raised his finger to admonish silence . 
D'Arnot turned back to the window , and presently the police officer spoke . 
There is evidently a great deal at stake which must hinge to a greater or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison . 
I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc , our expert returns . 
It will be but a matter of a few days . 
I had hoped to know at once , said D'Arnot . 
Monsieur Tarzan sails for America tomorrow . 
I will promise that you can cable him a report within two weeks , replied the officer but what it will be I dare not say . 
There are resemblances , yet well , we had better leave it for Monsieur Desquerc to solve . 
Chapter The Giant Again A taxicab drew up before an oldfashioned residence upon the outskirts of Baltimore . 
A man of about forty , well built and with strong , regular features , stepped out , and paying the chauffeur dismissed him . 
A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home . 
Ah , Mr. Canler ! exclaimed an old man , rising to greet him . 
Good evening , my dear Professor , cried the man , extending a cordial hand . 
Who admitted you ? asked the professor . 
Then she will acquaint Jane with the fact that you are here , said the old man . 
No , Professor , replied Canler , for I came primarily to see you . 
Ah , I am honored , said Professor Porter . 
Professor , continued Robert Canler , with great deliberation , as though carefully weighing his words , I have come this evening to speak with you about Jane . 
You know my aspirations , and you have been generous enough to approve my suit . 
Professor Archimedes Q. Porter fidgeted in his armchair . 
The subject always made him uncomfortable . 
He could not understand why . 
Canler was a splendid match . 
But Jane , continued Canler , I cannot understand her . 
She puts me off first on one ground and then another . 
I have always the feeling that she breathes a sigh of relief every time I bid her good by . 
Tut , tut , said Professor Porter . 
Tut , tut , Mr. Canler . 
Jane is a most obedient daughter . 
She will do precisely as I tell her . 
Then I can still count on your support ? asked Canler , a tone of relief marking his voice . 
Certainly , sir certainly , sir , exclaimed Professor Porter . 
How could you doubt it ? There is young Clayton , you know , suggested Canler . 
He has been hanging about for months . 
Tut tut , Mr. Canler unless what ? Unless , you see fit to request that Jane and I be married at once , said Canler , slowly and distinctly . 
What was her reply ? asked Canler . 
She said she was not ready to marry anyone yet , replied Professor Porter , and that we could go and live upon the farm in northern Wisconsin which her mother left her . 
It is a little more than self supporting . 
The tenants have always made a living from it , and been able to send Jane a trifle beside , each year . 
She is planning on our going up there the first of the week . 
Philander and Mr. Clayton have already gone to get things in readiness for us . 
Clayton has gone there ? exclaimed Canler , visibly chagrined . 
Why was I not told ? I would gladly have gone and seen that every comfort was provided . 
Jane feels that we are already too much in your debt , Mr. Canler , said Professor Porter . 
Canler was about to reply , when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without , and Jane entered the room . 
Oh , I beg your pardon ! she exclaimed , pausing on the threshold . 
I thought you were alone , papa . 
It is only I , Jane , said Canler , who had risen , won't you come in and join the family group ? We were just speaking of you . 
Thank you , said Jane , entering and taking the chair Canler placed for her . 
I only wanted to tell papa that Tobey is coming down from the college tomorrow to pack his books . 
I want you to be sure , papa , to indicate all that you can do without until fall . 
Please don't carry this entire library to Wisconsin , as you would have carried it to Africa , if I had not put my foot down . 
Was Tobey here ? asked Professor Porter . 
Yes , I just left him . 
He and Esmeralda are exchanging religious experiences on the back porch now . 
Tut , tut , I must see him at once ! cried the professor . 
Excuse me just a moment , children , and the old man hastened from the room . 
As soon as he was out of earshot Canler turned to Jane . 
See here , Jane , he said bluntly . 
How long is this thing going on like this ? You haven't refused to marry me , but you haven't promised either . 
I want to get the license tomorrow , so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin . 
I don't care for any fuss or feathers , and I'm sure you don't either . 
The girl turned cold , but she held her head bravely . 
Your father wishes it , you know , added Canler . 
She spoke scarcely above a whisper . 
Do you realize that you are buying me , Mr. Canler ? she said finally , and in a cold , level voice . 
But you , Mr. Canler , would have been the most surprised . 
You had no idea that the venture would succeed . 
You are too good a businessman for that . 
And you are too good a businessman to loan money for buried treasure seeking , or to loan money without security unless you had some special object in view . 
You knew that without security you had a greater hold on the honor of the Porters than with it . 
You knew the one best way to force me to marry you , without seeming to force me . 
You have never mentioned the loan . 
In any other man I should have thought that the prompting of a magnanimous and noble character . 
But you are deep , Mr. Robert Canler . 
I know you better than you think I know you . 
I shall certainly marry you if there is no other way , but let us understand each other once and for all . 
I thought you had more self control more pride . 
Of course you are right . 
I am buying you , and I knew that you knew it , but I thought you would prefer to pretend that it was otherwise . 
I should have thought your self respect and your Porter pride would have shrunk from admitting , even to yourself , that you were a bought woman . 
But have it your own way , dear girl , he added lightly . 
I am going to have you , and that is all that interests me . 
Without a word the girl turned and left the room . 
Why , Mr. Clayton , what have you done ? cried Jane Porter , her heart sinking within her as she realized the probable size of the expenditure that had been made . 
S sh , cautioned Clayton . 
Don't let your father guess . 
If you don't tell him he will never notice , and I simply couldn't think of him living in the terrible squalor and sordidness which Mr. Philander and I found . 
It was so little when I would like to do so much , Jane . 
For his sake , please , never mention it . 
But you know that we can't repay you , cried the girl . 
Why do you want to put me under such terrible obligations ? Don't , Jane , said Clayton sadly . 
Why can't you , Jane ? Because I love another . 
Canler ? No. But you are going to marry him . 
He told me as much before I left Baltimore . 
I do not love him , she said , almost proudly . 
Is it because of the money , Jane ? She nodded . 
Then am I so much less desirable than Canler ? I have money enough , and far more , for every need , he said bitterly . 
I do not love you , Cecil , she said , but I respect you . 
If I must disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man , I prefer that it be one I already despise . 
I should loathe the man to whom I sold myself without love , whomsoever he might be . 
You will be happier , she concluded , alone with my respect and friendship , than with me and my contempt . 
A week passed a tense , uneventful , but uncomfortable week for all the inmates of the little Wisconsin farmhouse . 
Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once . 
At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning . 
It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister . 
Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced , but the girl's tired , hopeless look kept him . 
He could not desert her . 
Something might happen yet , he tried to console himself by thinking . 
And in his heart , he knew that it would require but a tiny spark to turn his hatred for Canler into the blood lust of the killer . 
Early the next morning Canler set out for town . 
About noon Jane started off for a walk . 
She would not let Clayton accompany her . 
She wanted to be alone , she said , and he respected her wishes . 
In the house Professor Porter and Mr. Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem . 
Esmeralda dozed in the kitchen , and Clayton , heavy eyed after a sleepless night , threw himself down upon the couch in the living room and soon dropped into a fitful slumber . 
To the east the black smoke clouds rose higher into the heavens , suddenly they eddied , and then commenced to drift rapidly toward the west . 
On and on they came . 
The inmates of the tenant house were gone , for it was market day , and none was there to see the rapid approach of the fiery demon . 
Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return . 
Suddenly , out of the northeast , a great black car came careening down the road . 
With a jolt it stopped before the cottage , and a black haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch . 
Without a pause he rushed into the house . 
On the couch lay Clayton . 
The man started in surprise , but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man . 
He did not recognize the man , but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound . 
Where is Miss Jane ? cried Clayton , seizing Esmeralda by the shoulders and shaking her roughly . 
Oh , Gaberelle , Mister Clayton , she done gone for a walk . 
Hasn't she come back yet ? and , without waiting for a reply , Clayton dashed out into the yard , followed by the others . 
Which way did she go ? cried the black haired giant of Esmeralda . 
Down that road , cried the frightened woman , pointing toward the south where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view . 
Put these people in the other car , shouted the stranger to Clayton . 
I saw one as I drove up and get them out of here by the north road . 
If I find Miss Porter we shall need it . 
If I don't , no one will need it . 
Do as I say , as Clayton hesitated , and then they saw the lithe figure bound away cross the clearing toward the northwest where the forest still stood , untouched by flame . 
Who was that ? asked Professor Porter . 
I do not know , replied Clayton . 
He called me by name and he knew Jane , for he asked for her . 
And he called Esmeralda by name . 
There was something most startlingly familiar about him , exclaimed Mr. Philander , And yet , bless me , I know I never saw him before . 
Tut , tut ! cried Professor Porter . 
But come , he cried , we must get out of here ourselves , or we shall be shut off , and the party hastened toward Clayton's car . 
At length she was compelled to turn into the dense thicket and attempt to force her way to the west in an effort to circle around the flames and reach the house . 
The twenty minutes that it took her to regain the road was all that had been needed to cut off her retreat as effectually as her advance had been cut off before . 
A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand , for there before her was another wall of flame . 
An arm of the main conflagration had shot out a half mile south of its parent to embrace this tiny strip of road in its implacable clutches . 
Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth . 
She had tried it once , and failed . 
Now she realized that it would be but a matter of minutes ere the whole space between the north and the south would be a seething mass of billowing flames . 
Calmly the girl kneeled down in the dust of the roadway and prayed for strength to meet her fate bravely , and for the delivery of her father and her friends from death . 
Suddenly she heard her name being called aloud through the forest Jane ! Jane Porter ! It rang strong and clear , but in a strange voice . 
Here ! she called in reply . 
Here ! In the roadway ! Then through the branches of the trees she saw a figure swinging with the speed of a squirrel . 
Then she was lifted up , and she felt the rushing of the wind and the occasional brush of a branch as she was borne along . 
Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth . 
About her was the waving foliage of the forest . 
It was he ! My forest man ! she murmured , No , I must be delerious ! Yes , your man , Jane Porter . 
Your savage , primeval man come out of the jungle to claim his mate the woman who ran away from him , he added almost fiercely . 
I did not run away , she whispered . 
I would only consent to leave when they had waited a week for you to return . 
They had come to a point beyond the fire now , and he had turned back to the clearing . 
Side by side they were walking toward the cottage . 
The wind had changed once more and the fire was burning back upon itself another hour like that and it would be burned out . 
Why did you not return ? she asked . 
Ah , I knew it ! she exclaimed . 
They said you had gone to join the blacks that they were your people . 
But you did not believe them , Jane ? No what shall I call you ? she asked . 
What is your name ? I was Tarzan of the Apes when you first knew me , he said . 
It is a long story , but it was I who wrote what I could not speak and now D'Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English . 
Come , he added , jump into my car , we must overtake your father , they are only a little way ahead . 
But in Baltimore Oh , how I have searched for you they told me you would possibly be married by now . 
That a man named Canler had come up here to wed you . 
Is that true ? Yes . 
Do you love him ? No. Do you love me ? She buried her face in her hands . 
I am promised to another . 
I cannot answer you , Tarzan of the Apes , she cried . 
Now , tell me why you would marry one you do not love . 
My father owes him money . 
Suddenly there came back to Tarzan the memory of the letter he had read and the name Robert Canler and the hinted trouble which he had been unable to understand then . 
If your father had not lost the treasure you would not feel forced to keep your promise to this man Canler ? I could ask him to release me . 
And if he refused ? I have given my promise . 
He was silent for a moment . 
Finally they passed the danger point , and Tarzan reduced their speed . 
Suppose I should ask him ? ventured Tarzan . 
He would scarcely accede to the demand of a stranger , said the girl . 
Especially one who wanted me himself . 
Terkoz did , said Tarzan , grimly . 
Jane shuddered and looked fearfully up at the giant figure beside her , for she knew that he meant the great anthropoid he had killed in her defense . 
This is not the African jungle , she said . 
You are no longer a savage beast . 
You are a gentleman , and gentlemen do not kill in cold blood . 
I am still a wild beast at heart , he said , in a low voice , as though to himself . 
Again they were silent for a time . 
Jane , said the man , at length , if you were free , would you marry me ? She did not reply at once , but he waited patiently . 
The girl was trying to collect her thoughts . 
Do you shrink from wounding me ? I do not know what answer to make , said Jane sadly . 
I do not know my own mind . 
You do not love me , then ? he asked , in a level tone . 
You will be happier without me . 
I think I understand you , he replied quietly . 
I shall not urge you , for I would rather see you happy than to be happy myself . 
I see now that you could not be happy with an ape . 
There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice . 
But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet . 
Before them stood Clayton's car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage . 
For a moment no one noticed Tarzan , sitting silently in his seat . 
Clayton was the first to remember , and , turning , held out his hand . 
How can we ever thank you ? he exclaimed . 
You have saved us all . 
You called me by name at the cottage , but I do not seem to recall yours , though there is something very familiar about you . 
It is as though I had known you well under very different conditions a long time ago . 
Tarzan smiled as he took the proffered hand . 
You are quite right , Monsieur Clayton , he said , in French . 
You will pardon me if I do not speak to you in English . 
I am just learning it , and while I understand it fairly well I speak it very poorly . 
But who are you ? insisted Clayton , speaking in French this time himself . 
Clayton started back in surprise . 
By Jove ! he exclaimed . 
And Professor Porter and Mr. Philander pressed forward to add their thanks to Clayton's , and to voice their surprise and pleasure at seeing their jungle friend so far from his savage home . 
The party now entered the modest little hostelry , where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment . 
They were sitting in the little , stuffy parlor when the distant chugging of an approaching automobile caught their attention . 
Mr. Philander , who was sitting near the window , looked out as the car drew in sight , finally stopping beside the other automobiles . 
Bless me ! said Mr. Philander , a shade of annoyance in his tone . 
I had hoped , er I had thought or er how very happy we should be that he was not caught in the fire , he ended lamely . 
Tut , tut ! Mr. Philander , said Professor Porter . 
Tut , tut ! I have often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking . 
Were I you , Mr. Philander , I should count at least a thousand , and then maintain a discreet silence . 
Bless me , yes ! acquiesced Mr. Philander . 
But who is the clerical appearing gentleman with him ? Jane blanched . 
Clayton moved uneasily in his chair . 
Professor Porter removed his spectacles nervously , and breathed upon them , but replaced them on his nose without wiping . 
Only Tarzan did not comprehend . 
Presently Robert Canler burst into the room . 
Thank God ! he cried . 
I feared the worst , until I saw your car , Clayton . 
I was cut off on the south road and had to go away back to town , and then strike east to this road . 
I thought we'd never reach the cottage . 
No one seemed to enthuse much . 
Tarzan eyed Robert Canler as Sabor eyes her prey . 
Jane glanced at him and coughed nervously . 
Mr. Canler , she said , this is Monsieur Tarzan , an old friend . 
Canler turned and extended his hand . 
Tarzan rose and bowed as only D'Arnot could have taught a gentleman to do it , but he did not seem to see Canler's hand . 
Nor did Canler appear to notice the oversight . 
This is the Reverend Mr. Tousley , Jane , said Canler , turning to the clerical party behind him . 
Mr. Tousley , Miss Porter . 
Mr. Tousley bowed and beamed . 
Canler introduced him to the others . 
We can have the ceremony at once , Jane , said Canler . 
Then you and I can catch the midnight train in town . 
Tarzan understood the plan instantly . 
He glanced out of half closed eyes at Jane , but he did not move . 
The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves . 
All eyes turned toward Jane , awaiting her reply . 
Can't we wait a few days ? she asked . 
I have been through so much today . 
Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party . 
We have waited as long as I intend to wait , he said roughly . 
You have promised to marry me . 
I shall be played with no longer . 
I have the license and here is the preacher . 
Come Mr. Tousley come Jane . 
There are plenty of witnesses more than enough , he added with a disagreeable inflection and taking Jane Porter by the arm , he started to lead her toward the waiting minister . 
But scarcely had he taken a single step ere a heavy hand closed upon his arm with a grip of steel . 
Another hand shot to his throat and in a moment he was being shaken high above the floor , as a cat might shake a mouse . 
Jane turned in horrified surprise toward Tarzan . 
She knew that murder lay in that savage heart , and with a little cry of horror she sprang forward to plead with the ape man . 
But her fears were more for Tarzan than for Canler . 
She realized the stern retribution which justice metes to the murderer . 
Before she could reach them , however , Clayton had jumped to Tarzan's side and attempted to drag Canler from his grasp . 
For my sake , she said . 
The grasp upon Canler's throat relaxed . 
Tarzan looked down into the beautiful face before him . 
Do you wish this to live ? he asked in surprise . 
I do not wish him to die at your hands , my friend , she replied . 
I do not wish you to become a murderer . 
Tarzan removed his hand from Canler's throat . 
Do you release her from her promise ? he asked . 
It is the price of your life . 
Canler , gasping for breath , nodded . 
Will you go away and never molest her further ? Again the man nodded his head , his face distorted by fear of the death that had been so close . 
Tarzan released him , and Canler staggered toward the door . 
In another moment he was gone , and the terror stricken preacher with him . 
May I speak with you for a moment , alone , he asked . 
The girl nodded and started toward the door leading to the narrow veranda of the little hotel . 
She passed out to await Tarzan and so did not hear the conversation which followed . 
Wait , cried Professor Porter , as Tarzan was about to follow . 
The professor had been stricken dumb with surprise by the rapid developments of the past few minutes . 
Before we go further , sir , I should like an explanation of the events which have just transpired . 
I interfered , Professor Porter , replied Tarzan , because your daughter does not love Mr. Canler she does not wish to marry him . 
That is enough for me to know . 
You do not know what you have done , said Professor Porter . 
Now he will doubtless refuse to marry her . 
He most certainly will , said Tarzan , emphatically . 
Tut , tut , sir ! exclaimed Professor Porter . 
What do you mean , sir ? Your treasure has been found , said Tarzan . 
What what is that you are saying ? cried the professor . 
You are mad , man . 
It was I who stole it , not knowing either its value or to whom it belonged . 
I saw the sailors bury it , and , ape like , I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere . 
When D'Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it . 
Here it is , Professor Porter , and Tarzan drew an envelope from his pocket and handed it to the astonished professor , two hundred and forty one thousand dollars . 
To the already great burden of the obligations we owe you , sir , said Professor Porter , with trembling voice , is now added this greatest of all services . 
You have given me the means to save my honor . 
Clayton , who had left the room a moment after Canler , now returned . 
Pardon me , he said . 
I think we had better try to reach town before dark and take the first train out of this forest . 
A native just rode by from the north , who reports that the fire is moving slowly in this direction . 
This announcement broke up further conversation , and the entire party went out to the waiting automobiles . 
Clayton , with Jane , the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton's car , while Tarzan took Mr. Philander in with him . 
Bless me ! exclaimed Mr. Philander , as the car moved off after Clayton . 
Bless me ! But it is most remarkable . 
Was there anything peculiar about any of those skeletons ? Mr. Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly . 
Why do you ask ? It means a great deal to me to know , replied Tarzan . 
Your answer may clear up a mystery . 
It can do no worse , at any rate , than to leave it still a mystery . 
Thank you , said Tarzan . 
In the car ahead , Jane was thinking fast and furiously . 
He was not the sort of person one could put off , and somehow that very thought made her wonder if she did not really fear him . 
Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her , as had the stalwart forest god . 
Did she love him ? She did not know now . 
She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye . 
Jane was not coldly calculating by nature , but training , environment and heredity had all combined to teach her to reason even in matters of the heart . 
If he should never touch her again , she reasoned , she would never feel attracted toward him . 
She had not loved him , then . 
It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination , super induced by excitement and by personal contact . 
Excitement would not always mark their future relations , should she marry him , and the power of personal contact eventually would be dulled by familiarity . 
Again she glanced at Clayton . 
He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman . 
She should be very proud of such a husband . 
You are free now , Jane , he said . 
Won't you say yes I will devote my life to making you very happy . 
That evening in the little waiting room at the station Tarzan caught Jane alone for a moment . 
I can make you happy , Jane , in the life you know and love best . 
Will you marry me ? For the first time she realized the depths of the man's love all that he had accomplished in so short a time solely for love of her . 
Turning her head she buried her face in her arms . 
And then she told him all told him the truth word by word , without attempting to shield herself or condone her error . 
What can we do ? he asked . 
You have admitted that you love me . 
You know that I love you but I do not know the ethics of society by which you are governed . 
I shall leave the decision to you , for you know best what will be for your eventual welfare . 
I cannot tell him , Tarzan , she said . 
He too , loves me , and he is a good man . 
I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr. Clayton . 
I shall have to keep it and you must help me bear the burden , though we may not see each other again after tonight . 
The others were entering the room now and Tarzan turned toward the little window . 
In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth , and beside her sat a young giant . 
They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled . 
They were very happy , and they were all alone . 
His thoughts were broken in upon by the station agent who entered asking if there was a gentleman by the name of Tarzan in the party . 
I am Monsieur Tarzan , said the ape man . 
Here is a message for you , forwarded from Baltimore it is a cablegram from Paris . 
Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open . 
The message was from D'Arnot . 
It read Fingerprints prove you Greystoke . 
As Tarzan finished reading , Clayton entered and came toward him with extended hand . 
Here was the man who had Tarzan's title , and Tarzan's estates , and was going to marry the woman whom Tarzan loved the woman who loved Tarzan . 
A single word from Tarzan would make a great difference in this man's life . 
It would take away his title and his lands and his castles , and it would take them away from Jane Porter also . 
I say , old man , cried Clayton , I haven't had a chance to thank you for all you've done for us . 
It seems as though you had your hands full saving our lives in Africa and here . 
I'm awfully glad you came on here . 
We must get better acquainted . 
I often thought about you , you know , and the remarkable circumstances of your environment . 
If it's any of my business , how the devil did you ever get into that bally jungle ? I was born there , said Tarzan , quietly . 
My mother was an Ape , and of course she couldn't tell me much about it . 
I never knew who my father was . 
