THE BIRDS' CHRISTMAS CAROL BY KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN To The Three Dearest Children in the World , BERTHA , LUCY , AND HORATIO . 
O little ones , ye cannot know The power with which ye plead , Nor why , as on through life we go , The little child doth lead . 
CONTENTS I. A LITTLE SNOW BIRD II . 
BIRDS OF A FEATHER FLOCK TOGETHER V. SOME OTHER BIRDS ARE TAUGHT TO FLY VI . 
WHEN THE PIE WAS OPENED , THE BIRDS BEGAN TO SING VII . 
THE BIRDLING FLIES AWAY The Birds' Christmas Carol . 
I. A LITTLE SNOW BIRD . 
It was very early Christmas morning , and in the stillness of the dawn , with the soft snow falling on the housetops , a little child was born in the Bird household . 
They were consulting about it in the nursery . 
Uncle Jack said that the first girl should always be named for her mother , no matter how hideous the name happened to be . 
The reason that the subject had been brought up at all so early in the day lay in the fact that Mrs. Bird never allowed her babies to go over night unnamed . 
But Hugh refused to leave the scene of action . 
Meanwhile dear Mrs. Bird lay in her room , weak , but safe and happy with her sweet girl baby by her side and the heaven of motherhood opening before her . 
Nurse was making gruel in the kitchen , and the room was dim and quiet . 
Suddenly a sound of music poured out into the bright air and drifted into the chamber . 
It was the boy choir singing Christmas anthems . 
Higher and higher rose the clear , fresh voices , full of hope and cheer , as children's voices always are . 
One verse followed another always with the same glad refrain And pray a gladsome Christmas For all your fellow men Carol , brothers , carol , Christmas Day again . 
Mrs. Bird thought , as the music floated in upon her gentle sleep , that she had slipped into heaven with her new baby , and that the angels were bidding them welcome . 
She opened her eyes and drew the baby closer . 
Carol , brothers , carol , Carol joyfully , Carol the good tidings , Carol merrily ! The voices were brimming over with joy . 
Why , my baby , whispered Mrs. Bird in soft surprise , I had forgotten what day it was . 
You are a little Christmas child , and we will name you 'Carol' mother's little Christmas Carol ! What ! said Mr. Bird , coming in softly and closing the door behind him . 
And so Carol came by her name . 
Perhaps because she was born in holiday time , Carol was a very happy baby . 
Why does she do it ? asked Donald , thoughtfully None of us boys ever did . 
It was December , ten years later . 
Donald was away at college now . 
Paul and Hugh were great manly fellows , taller than their mother . 
Papa Bird had grey hairs in his whiskers and Grandma , God bless her , had been four Christmases in heaven . 
The illness was slight at first , and hope was always stirring in Mrs. Bird's heart . 
Love could do nothing and when we have said that we have said all , for it is stronger than anything else in the whole wide world . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bird were talking it over one evening when all the children were asleep . 
Dear heart , said Mr. Bird , pacing up and down the library floor , it is no use to shut our eyes to it any longer Carol will never be well again . 
I suffer chiefly for Carol's sake , but I have almost given up being sorrowful for my own . 
I am too happy in the child , and I see too clearly what she has done for us and for our boys . 
A quarrel or a hot word is almost unknown in this house . 
Why ? Carol would hear it , and it would distress her , she is so full of love and goodness . 
The boys study with all their might and main . 
Why ? Partly , at least , because they like to teach Carol , and amuse her by telling her what they read . 
And as for her future , Mrs. Bird went on , I think we need not be over anxious . 
Carol herself knew nothing of motherly tears and fatherly anxieties she lived on peacefully in the room where she was born . 
The room had been extended by the building of a large addition that hung out over the garden below , and was so filled with windows that it might have been a conservatory . 
The carpet was of soft grey , with clusters of green bay and holly leaves . 
The furniture was of white wood , on which an artist had painted snow scenes and Christmas trees and groups of merry children ringing bells and singing carols . 
This was Carol's Circulating Library . 
Every Saturday she chose ten books , jotting their names down in a little diary into these she slipped cards that said Please keep this book two weeks and read it . 
With love , Carol Bird . 
Then Mrs. Bird stepped into her carriage , and took the ten books to the Childrens' Hospital , and brought home ten others that she had left there the fortnight before . 
On these particular December days she was happier than usual , for Uncle Jack was coming from Europe to spend the holidays . 
The mail had brought this letter LONDON , Nov . 
It's the strangest thing I ever knew I've hunted all over Europe , and can't find a boy to suit me ! I'll tell you why . 
Please drop a note to the clerk of the weather , and have a good , rousing snow storm say on the twenty second . 
Set it up in the garret , if necessary , and then we can cut a hole in the roof if the tree chances to be too high for the room . 
Tell Bridget to begin to fatten a turkey . 
The pudding must be unusually huge , and darkly , deeply , lugubriously black in color . 
It must be stuck so full of plums that the pudding itself will ooze out into the pan and not be brought on to the table at all . 
She is better than all the turkeys and puddings and apples and spare ribs and wreaths and garlands and mistletoe and stockings and chimneys and sleigh bells in Christendom . 
Carol's joy knew no bounds . 
BIRDS OF A FEATHER FLOCK TOGETHER . 
Uncle Jack did really come on the twentieth . 
He was not detained by business , nor did he get left behind nor snowed up , as frequently happens in stories , and in real life too , I am afraid . 
The snow storm came also and the turkey nearly died a natural and premature death from over eating . 
One or the other was always at Carol's bedside , for they fancied her paler than she used to be , and they could not bear her out of sight . 
It was Uncle lack , though , who sat beside her in the winter twilights . 
lay close clasped in Uncle Jack's , and they talked together quietly of many , many things . 
Mama says she supposes that ever so many other children have been born on that day . 
Ha , ha , ha ! laughed Uncle Jack , what an obliging family , to be sure . 
Yes , we all thought it very funny , and I smiled at them from the window when I was well enough to be up again . 
Is Peter the oldest ? No Sarah Maud is the oldest she helps do the washing and Peter is the next . 
He is a dressmaker's boy . 
And which is the pretty little red haired girl ? That's Kitty . 
And the fat youngster ? Baby Larry . 
And that freckled one ? Now , don't laugh that's Peoria ! Carol , you are joking . 
No , really , Uncle dear . 
She was born in Peoria that's all . 
And is the next boy Oshkosh ? No , laughed Carol , the others are Susan , and Clement , and Eily , and Cornelius . 
How did you ever learn all their names ? Well , I have what I call a 'window school . 
Wasn't that pretty ? It might teach some of us a lesson , mightn't it , little girl ? That's what Mama said . 
Now I'm going to give this whole Christmas to the Ruggleses and , Uncle Jack , I earned part of the money myself . 
I have written a letter to the organist , and asked him if I might have the two songs I like best . 
Will you see if it is all right ? BIRDS NEST , Dec . 
Yours respectfully , CAROL BIRD . 
She didn't remember then that my other name would be Bird , because she was half asleep , and couldn't think of but one thing at a time . 
Yours truly , CAROL BIRD . 
Uncle Jack thought the letter quite right , and did not even smile at her telling the organist so many family items . 
The days flew by , as they always fly in holiday time , and it was Christmas eve before anybody knew it . 
The family festival was quiet and very pleasant , but quite swallowed up in the grander preparations for next day . 
The dog and the cat had enjoyed their celebration under Carol's direction . 
Villikins barked , and sniffed , and howled in impatience , and after many vain attempts succeeded in dragging off the prize , though he singed his nose in doing it . 
This was really only done for fun , but it pleased Carol . 
That was to keep the dear ones from quarreling all through the year . 
There were Papa's stout top boots Mama's pretty buttoned shoes next then Uncle Jack's , Donald's , Paul's and Hugh's and at the end of the line her own little white worsted slippers . 
This done , she dropped into bed , a rather tired , but very happy Christmas fairy . 
V. SOME OTHER BIRDS ARE TAUGHT TO FLY . 
Before the earliest Ruggles could wake and toot his five cent tin horn , Mrs. Ruggles was up and stirring about the house , for it was a gala day in the family . 
RUGGLES , I am going to have a dinner party on Christmas day , and would like to have all your children come . 
I want them every one , please , from Sarah Maud to Baby Larry . 
Mama says dinner will be at half past five , and the Christmas tree at seven so you may expect them home at nine o'clock . 
Wishing you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year , I am , yours truly , CAROL BIRD . 
You other boys clear out from under foot ! Clem , you and Con hop into bed with Larry while I wash yer underflannins 'twont take long to dry 'em . 
Sarah Maud , I think 'twould be perfeckly han'som if you ripped them brass buttons off yer uncle's policeman's coat an' sewed 'em in a row up the front o' yer green skirt . 
That's a lady cried her mother . 
All we've got ter do 's go eat ! grumbled Peter . 
Well , that's enough , responded his mother there's more 'n one way of eatin' , let me tell yer , an' you've got a heap ter learn about it , Peter Ruggles . 
I say , complete but I do not know whether they would be called so in the best society . 
Now , Sarah Maud , said Mrs. Ruggles , her face shining with excitement , everything is red up an' we can begin . 
I've got a boiler 'n a kettle 'n a pot o' hot water . 
When the clock struck three they were all clothed , and most of them in their right minds , ready for those last touches that always take the most time . 
When they go out they've got to have close , and learn ter act decent ! Now , I want ter see how yer goin' to behave when yer git there to night . 
Let's start in at the beginnin' 'n act out the whole business . 
Pile into the bed room , there , every last one of ye , an' show me how yer goin' ter go in't the parlor . 
This'll be the parlor 'n I'll be Mis' Bird . 
Now , look me in the eye . 
Now , can you remember ? All the little Ruggleses shouted , Yes , marm , in chorus . 
Yes , marm , they piped , more feebly . 
Now git up , all of ye , an' try it . 
Speak up , Sarah Maud . 
Sarah Maud's tongue clove to the roof of her mouth . 
Quick ! Ma thought it was sech a pleasant hat that we'd we'd better leave our short walk to home , recited Sarah Maud , in an agony of mental effort . 
This was too much for the boys . 
Now , Cornelius , what are YOU goin' ter say ter make yerself good comp'ny ? Dunno ! said Cornelius , turning pale . 
Now we'll make b'lieve we've got ter the dinner that won't be so hard , 'cause yer'll have somethin' to do it's awful bothersome ter stan' round an' act stylish . 
If they have napkins , Sarah Maud down to Peory may put 'em in their laps 'n the rest of ye can tuck 'em in yer necks . 
Clement Ruggles , do you mean to tell me that you'd say that to a dinner party ? I'll give ye one more chance . 
Mr. Clement , will you take some of the cramb'ry ? Yes marm , thank ye kindly , if you happen ter have any handy . 
First rate ! nobody could speak more genteel than that . 
You just stop your gruntin' , Peter Ruggles that was all right . 
I wish I could git it inter your heads that it ain't so much what yer say , as the way yer say it . 
Me too , chimed in Cornelius . 
I wouldn't mind if folks would only say , 'Oh , childern will be childern but they won't . 
Peter rang the door bell , and presently a servant admitted them , and , whispering something in Sarah's ear , drew her downstairs into the kitchen . 
Accordingly , they walked upstairs , and Elfrida , the nurse , ushered them into a room more splendid than anything they had ever seen . 
However , Mrs. Bird said , pleasantly , Of course you wouldn't wear hats such a short distance I forgot when I asked . 
But where is Baby Larry ? she cried , looking over the group with searching eye . 
Uncle Jack went into convulsions of laughter . 
Are you sure there were nine of you ? he asked , merrily . 
I think so , sir , said Peoria , timidly but , anyhow , there was Larry and she showed signs of weeping . 
Oh , well , cheer up ! cried Uncle Jack . 
I guess he's not lost only mislaid . 
Carol's bed had been moved into the farthest corner of the room , and she was lying on the outside , dressed in a wonderful soft white wrapper . 
There was great bustle behind a huge screen in another part of the room , and at half past five this was taken away , and the Christmas dinner table stood revealed . 
No , it ain't neither , for that pig of a Peory's just gittin' another helpin' ! Yes , whispered Kitty , an' the napkins is marked with big red letters . 
I wonder if that's so nobody 'll nip 'em an' oh , Peter , look at the pictures painted right on ter the dishes . 
Did yer ever ! The plums is all took out o' my cramb'ry sarse , an' it's friz to a stiff jell ! shouted Peoria , in wild excitement . 
There was plum pudding , mince pie , and ice cream , and there were nuts , and raisins , and oranges . 
Kitty chose ice cream , explaining that she knew it by sight , but hadn't never tasted none but all the rest took the entire variety , without any regard to consequences . 
I'm going to run races with her after dinner . 
Never mind , laughed Carol , let them eat for once it does my heart good to see them , and they shall come oftener next year . 
The presents had been bought mostly with Carol's story money , and were selected after long consultations with Mrs. Bird . 
Then every girl had a pretty plaid dress of a different color , and every boy a warm coat of the right size . 
Here the useful presents stopped , and they were quite enough but Carol had pleaded to give them something for fun . 
I know they need the clothes , she had said , when they were talking over the matter just after Thanksgiving , but they don't care much for them , after all . 
But that isn't the thing , objected Carol , nestling close to her father it wouldn't be mine . 
Now , Papa , submit , or I shall have to be very firm and disagreeable with you ! Very well , your Highness , I surrender . 
Oh , you would never give it up if you could see it . 
A few more books , and a gold thimble , and a smelling bottle , and a music box . 
You can well believe that everybody was very merry and very thankful . 
Oh , wasn't it a lovely , lovely time , sighed Carol . 
From first to last , everything was just right . 
I am not so very tired , Mama . 
I have felt well all day not a bit of pain anywhere . 
Perhaps this has done me good . 
There was no noise or confusion it was just a merry time . 
Oh , I'm willing to stay alone but I am not sleepy yet , and I am going to hear the music by and by , you know . 
Yes , I have opened the window a little , and put the screen in front of it , so that you will not feel the air . 
I never saw it before , and I thought of the Star in the East , that guided the wise men to the place where Jesus was . 
Such a happy , happy day ! Good night , my precious little Christmas Carol mother's blessed Christmas child . 
Bend your head a minute , mother dear , whispered Carol , calling her mother back . 
Mama , dear , I do think that we have kept Christ's birthday this time just as He would like it . 
Don't you ? I am sure of it , said Mrs. Bird , softly . 
A little child shall lead them , he thought well , if if anything ever happens to Carol , I will take the Ruggleses under my wing . 
Softly , Uncle Jack , whispered the boys , as he walked into the library a little while later We are listening to the music in the church . 
They sang 'Carol , brothers , carol , a while ago , and now we think the organist is beginning to play 'My ain countree' for Carol . 
I hope she hears it , said Mrs. Bird but they are very late to night , and I dare not speak to her lest she should be asleep . 
It is after ten o'clock . 
The boy soprano , clad in white surplice , stood in the organ loft . 
The lamps shone full upon his crown of fair hair , and his pale face , with its serious blue eyes , looked paler than usual . 
I am far frae my hame , I am weary aften whiles For the langed for hame bringin An' my Faether's welcome smiles . 
An' I'll ne'er be fu' content , Until my e'en do see The gowden gates o' heaven In my ain countree . 
There were tears in many eyes , but not in Carol's . 
The loving heart had quietly ceased to beat and the wee birdie in the great house had flown to its home nest . 
