Prepared by Diane and Don Nafis , dnafis nazlo . 
com The Bobbsey Twins at School LAURA LEE HOPE CONTENTS chapter page I. A CIRCUS TRAIN . 
Are you getting tired ? asked Nan's brother Bert . 
If you are I'll sit next to the window , and watch the telegraph poles and trees go by . 
Maybe that's what tires you , Nan , he added , and his father smiled , for he saw that Bert had two thoughts for himself , and one for his sister . 
No , I'm not tired of the scenery , answered the brownhaired and browneyed girl , but you may sit next the window , Bert , if you like . 
Thanks ! he exclaimed as he scrambled over to the place his sister gave up . 
Are you tired , dearie ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey , leaning forward and smoothing out her daughter's hair with her hand . 
I was just wondering how soon we'd be home . 
Bert was wondering if one of the cows might not chase the boy . 
But the cows were very well behaved , and went along slowly . 
Yes , the seashore was nice , murmured Nan , as she leaned her head back on the cushioned seat , but I'm glad to be going home again . 
I want to see some of the girls , and Yes , and I'll be looking for some of the boys , too , put in Bert . 
It's about an hour yet , he said to Nan , and she sighed . 
Really she was more tired than she cared to let her mother know . 
Just ahead of the two Bobbsey children were another set of them . 
I say set for the Bobbsey children came in sets . 
There were two pairs of twins , Bert and Nan , nearly nine years of age , and Flossie and Freddie , almost five . 
The two pairs of twins were quite a contrast , and many persons stopped to look at them as they passed along the street together . 
No , sir , went on Bert musingly , school's no fun , and it starts about a week after we get home . 
No chance to have a good time ! We've had fun all summer , replied his sister . 
Mamma , are we going to school this year ? asked Flossie , as she looked back with a quick turning of her head that set her yellow curls to dancing . 
If we are , I'm going to sit with Flossie can't I ? asked Freddie , kneeling in the seat so that he could face back to his father and mother . 
Indeed his request was not strange , since the two younger twins were always together even more so than their brother and sister . 
Yes , I think you and Freddie will start school regularly this term , said Mrs. Bobbsey , and , if it can be arranged , you may sit together . 
It's my turn to sit by the window , anyhow , said Flossie . 
It is not ! We haven't passed a station yet , disputed Freddie . 
Oh , we have so ! cried his little sister . 
Freddie Bobbsey ! and she pointed her finger at him . 
Children children , said Mrs. Bobbsey , reprovingly . 
Are you two taking turns ? asked Bert , smiling with an older brother's superior wisdom . 
Well , it was only a little station , anyhow , asserted Freddie , and it came awful quick after the last one . 
It isn't fair ! There's a seat up ahead for you , Bert , suggested Mr. Bobbsey , as a gentleman got up , when the train approached a station . 
You can sit there , and let Flossie or Freddie take your place . 
All right , answered Bert goodnaturedly , as he got up . 
The train rolled on , the two younger twins each having a window now , and Nan occupying the seat with her little brother . 
She was Dinah , the Bobbsey cook , and they took her with them always when going away for the summer . 
Now they were on their way to their city house , and of course Dinah came back , too . 
Mamma , I'm thirsty , said Flossie , after a bit . 
Please may I get a drink ? I want one , too , said Freddie quicky . 
Come on , Flossie , we'll both go down to the end of the car where the water cooler is . 
There's no cup , Nan said . 
I went a little while ago , but a lady let me take her glass . 
And if there was a cup , I would rather they didn't use it , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
One never knows who has last handled a public cup . 
But I want a drink , insisted Flossie , a bit fretfully , for she was tired from the long journey . 
I know it , dear , said her mamma gently , and I'm getting out the silver cup for you . 
Only you must be very careful of it , and not drop it , for it is solid silver and will dent , or mar , easily . 
She was searching in her bag , and presently took out a very valuable drinking cup , gold lined and with much engraving on it . 
The cup had been presented to Flossie and Freddie on their first birthday , and bore each of their names . 
They were very proud of it . 
Now be careful , warned Mrs. Bobbsey , as she held out the cup . 
Hold on to the seats as you walk along . 
I'll carry the cup , said Freddie . 
You are not ! declared his sister quickly . 
Well , anyhow , I'm a boy , went on Freddie , and Flossie could not deny this . 
And boys always carries things , her brother went on . 
Very well , but be careful of it , said his mother with a smile , as she handed it to him . 
The two children went down the aisle of the car . 
They stopped for a moment at the seat where Dinah was . 
Is Snoop all right ? asked Freddie , peering into a box that was made of slats , with spaces between them for air . 
'Deed an' he am , honey , said Dinah with a smile , laughing so that she shook all over her big , fleshy body . 
The cat , like Dinah the cook , went with the Bobbseys on all their summer outings . 
Well , maybe he am lonesome , admitted Dinah , with another laugh , but he's been real good . 
Near it they saw something else to look at . 
This was the sight of a very , very fat lady who occupied nearly all of one seat in the end of the car . 
She was so large that only a very little baby could have found room beside her . 
Look look at her , whispered Flossie to Freddie , as they paused . 
The fat woman's back was toward them , and she seemed to be much interested in looking out of the window . 
She is fat , admitted Freddie . 
Did you ever see one so big before ? Only in a circus , said Flossie . 
She'd make make two of Dinah , went on her brother . 
She would not , contradicted Flossie quickly . 
'Cause Dinah's black , and this lady is white . 
That's so , admitted Freddie , with smile . 
I didn't think of that . 
A sway of the train nearly made Flossic fall , and she caught quickly at her brother . 
Look out ! he cried . 
You 'mos knocked the cup down . 
I didn't mean to , spoke Flossie . 
After some confusion the hat was placed on Flossie's head , and once more she and her brother moved on toward the water cooler . 
It was getting dusk now , and some of the lamps in the car had been lighted . 
Freddie , carrying the cup , filled it with water at the little faucet , and , very politely , offered it to his sister first . 
Freddie was no better than most boys of his age , but he did not forget some of the little polite ways his mamma was continually teaching him . 
One of these was ladies first , though Freddie did not always carry it out , especially when he was in a hurry . 
Do you want any more ? he asked , before he would get himself a drink . 
Just a little , said Flossie . 
The silver cup doesn't hold much . 
No , I guess it's 'cause there's so much silver in it , replied her brother . 
It's worth a lot of money , mamma said . 
Yes , and it's all ours . 
When I grow up I'm going to have my half made into a bracelet . 
You are ? said Freddie slowly . 
If you do there won't be enough left for me to drink out of . 
Well , you can have your share of it made into a watch , and drink out of a glass . 
That's so , agreed Freddie , his face brightening . 
He gave his sister more water , and then took some himself . 
As he drank his eyes were constantly looking at the very fat lady who filled so much of her seat . 
She turned from the window and looked at the two children , smiling broadly . 
Freddie was somewhat confused , and looked down quickly . 
Just then the train gave another lurch and Freddie suddenly spilled some of the water on his coat . 
Oh , look what you did ! cried Flossie . 
And that's your best coat ! I I couldn't help it , stammered Freddie . 
Never mind , little boy , said the fat lady . 
Come here and I'll wipe it off with my handkerchief . 
I'd come to you , only I'm so stout it's hard enough for me to walk anyhow , and when the train is moving I simply can't do it . 
Thank you , she answered . 
What a kind little boy you are ! I saw you give your sister a drink first , too . 
Yes , I would like a drink . 
I've been wanting one some time , but I didn't dare get up to go after it . 
I'll get it ! cried Freddie , eager to show what a little man he was . 
Oh , what a beautiful cup , she said , as she took it . 
And it cost a lot of money , too , said Flossie . 
It's ours our birthday cup , and when I grow up I'm going to have a bracelet made from my half . 
That will be nice , said the fat lady , as she prepared to drink . 
Flossie and Freddie sat down suddenly in the aisle , but they were so fat that they did not mind it in the least . 
As surprised as he was , Freddie noticed that the fat lady was so large that she could not be thrown out of her seat , no matter how suddenly the train stopped . 
It's a wreck the train's off the track ! a man exclaimed . 
We've hit something ! cried another . 
It's an accident , anyhow , said still a third , and then every one seemed to be talking at once . 
Mr. Bobbsey came running down the aisle to where Flossie and Freddie still sat , dazed . 
Are you hurt ? he cried , picking them both up together , which was rather hard to do . 
No no , said Freddie slowly . 
Oh , papa , what is it ? asked Flossie , wondering whether she was going to cry . 
I don't know , my dear . 
Nothing serious , I guess . 
The engineer must have put the brakes on too quickly . 
I'll look out and see . 
Knowing that his children were safe , Mr. Bobbsey put them down and led them back to where his wife was anxiously waiting . 
They're all right , he called . 
No one seems to be hurt . 
Bert Bobbsey looked out of the window . 
Though darkness had fallen there seemed to be many lights up ahead of the stopped train . 
And in the light Bert could see some camels , an elephant or two , a number of horses , and cages containing lions and tigers strung out along the track . 
Why why , what's this a circus ? he asked . 
Look , Nan ! See those monkeys ! Why , it is a circus and the train must have been wrecked ! exclaimed his sister . 
Oh mamma , what can it be ? A brakeman came into the car where the Bobbseys were . 
There's no danger , he said . 
A circus train that was running ahead of us got off the track , and some of the animals are loose . 
Our train nearly ran into an elephant , and that's why the engineer had to stop so suddenly . 
We will go on I soon . 
A circus , eh ? said Mr. Bobbsey . 
Well , well ! This is an adventure , children . 
We've run into a circus train ! Let's watch them catch the animals . 
Or a lion ? asked Flossie . 
Of course not ! exclaimed Nan . 
I guess the circus men can look after them , said Bert . 
May I get off , father , and look around ? I'd rather you wouldn't , son . 
You can't tell what may happen . 
Oh , look at that man after the monkey ! cried Nan . 
Yes , and the monkey's gone up on top of the tiger's cage , added Bert . 
There's a big elephant ! cried Freddie . 
See him push the lion's cage around . 
Elephants are awful strong ! They couldn't push a railroad train , said Flossie . 
They could too ! cried her little brother , quickly . 
Could they , papa ? What ? asked Mr. Bobbsey , absentmindedly . 
Could an elephant push a railroad train ? asked Flossie . 
I know they could , declared Freddie . 
Couldn't they , papa ? Now , children , don't argue . 
Look out of the windows , adivsed their mother . 
Mr. Richard Bobbsey , and his wife Mary , the parents of the Bobbsey twins , lived in an Eastern city called Lakeport , on Lake Metoka . 
There was also a river running into the lake , not far from the saw mill . 
The Bobbseys had many vegetables from this garden . 
There was also a barn near the house , and in this the children had many good times . 
Flossie and Freddie played there more than did Nan and Bert , who were growing too old for games of that sort . 
As I have said , Bert and Nan were rather tall and thin , while Flossie and Freddie were short and fat . 
Mr. Bobbsey used often to call Flossie his Fat Fairy , which always made her laugh . 
And Freddie had a pet name , too . 
It was Fat Fireman , for he often played that he was a fireman putting out makebelieve fires , and pretending he was a fire engine . 
Once or twice his father had taken him to see a real one , and this pleased Freddie very much . 
In the first book of this series , called The Bobbsey Twins , I told you something of the fun the four children had in their home town . 
They had troubles , too , and Danny Rugg , one of the few bad boys in Lakeport , was the cause of some . 
Also about a certain broken window what happened when the twins went coasting , how they had a good time in an ice boat , and how they did many other things . 
Snoop , the fat , black kitten , played a part in the story also . 
The Bobbsey twins were very fond of Snoop , and had kept him so many years that I suppose he ought to be called cat , instead of a kitten , now . 
In the book called The Bobbsey Twins in the Country , I wrote down many of the things that happened during the summer . 
If they had fun going off to the country , taking Snoop with them , of course , they had many more good times on arriving at the farm . 
There was fun on the sand , and more fun in the water , and once the little ones got lost on an island . 
Then came closing days at Ocean Cliff , the home of Uncle William and Aunt Emily Minturn at Sunset Beach . 
And so the Bobbseys were on their way home in the train when the circus accident happened that brought them to a stop . 
And so we nearly ran into an elephant , eh ? said Mr. Bobbsey to the brakeman , who had brought in the news . 
Our engineer stopped just in time . 
If we had hit him we'd gone off the track , said Freddy . 
No , we wouldn't , declared Flossie , who seemed bound to start a dispute . 
Perhaps she was so tired that she was fretful . 
Say , can't you two stop disputing all the while ? asked Bert , in a low voice . 
You make papa and mamma nervous . 
Well , an elephant is big , anyhow , said Freddie . 
So he is , little Fat Fireman , said Nan , Come and sit with me , and we can see the men catch the monkeys . 
The work of getting the escaped animals back into their cages was going on rapidly . 
Some of the passengers went out to watch , but the Bobbseys stayed in their seats , Mr. Bobbsey thinking this best . 
The catching of the monkeys was the hardest work , but soon even this was accomplished . 
The conductor came through the car . 
When will we start ? asked Mr. Bobbsey . 
Not for some time , I'm afraid , spoke the tickettaker . 
The wreck is a worse one than I thought at first , and some of the cars of the circus train are across the track so we can't get by . 
We may be here two hours yet . 
Where are we ? Just outside of Whitewood . 
Oh , that's near home ! exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Well , we could do that , I suppose , said her husband , slowly . 
That's what a number of passengers did , said the conductor . 
There's no danger in going out now all the animals are back in their cages . 
Then that's what we'll do , children , said their father . 
Gather up your things , and we'll take the trolley home . 
The moon is coming up , and it will soon be light . 
I'm hungry , said Freddie , fretfully . 
So am I , added his twin sister . 
Well , I have some crackers and cookies in my bag , replied Mrs. Bobbsey . 
You can eat those on the way . 
Nan , go tell Dinah that we're going to take a trolley . 
We can each carry something . 
I'll carry Snoop , exclaimed Freddie . 
He hurried down the aisle to where the cook was now standing , intending to get the box containing his pet cat . 
Where's Snoop , Dinah ? he asked . 
Heah he am ! she said , lifting up the slatbox . 
He ain't made a sound in all dis confusion , nuther . 
The next moment Freddie gave a cry of dismay Snoop's gone ! he wailed . 
He broke open the box and he's gone ! Oh , where is Snoop ? Ma sakes alive ! cried Dinah . 
The box was empty ! A hurried search of the car did not bring forth the black pet . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bobbsey , and some of the passengers , joined in the hunt . 
But there was no Snoop , and a slat that had pulled loose from one side of the box showed how he had gotten out . 
Most likely Snoop got frightened when the train stopped so suddenly , and broke loose , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
We may find him outside . 
I I hope an elephant didn't step on him said Flossie , with a catch in her breath . 
Ohooo ! Maybe a tiger or a lion has him ! wailed Freddie . 
Oh , Snoop ! Be quiet , dear , we'll find him for you , said Mrs. Bobbsey , as she opened her satchel to get out some cookies . 
Freddie , where is that silver cup ? she asked . 
You had it to get a drink . 
Did you give it back to me ? No , mamma , I I He gave the fat lady a drink from it , spoke Flossie , and she didn't give it back . 
The train stopped just as she was drinking , went on Freddie . 
I sat down on the floor hard , and I saw the water spill on her . 
The fat lady has our silver cup ! Oh , dear ! And she's gone and Snoop is gone ! cried Flossie . 
Oh ! oh ! Is that so did you let her take your cup , Freddie ? asked his papa . 
That fat lady was with the circus , said one of the men passengers . 
Maybe you can see her outside . 
I'll look , said Mr. Bobbsey , quickly . 
That cup is too valuable to lose . 
Come , children , we'll see if we can't find Snoop also , and then we'll take a trolley car for home . 
CHAPTER III A QUEER DOG PAPA BOBBSEY first looked for some of the circus men of whom he might inquire about the fat lady . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Bobbsey kept the four children and Dinah with her , surrounding their little pile of baggage off to one side of The tracks . 
Some of the big torches were still burning , and the full moon was coming up , so that there was plenty of light , even if it was night . 
Oh , but if we could only find Snoop ! cried Freddie . 
Here , Snoop ! Snoop ! he called . 
I had much rather find the fat lady , and get back your lovely silver cup , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
I hope she hasn't taken it away with her . 
She had it in her hand when the train , stopped with such a jerk , explained Flossie . 
Oh , but mamma , don't you want us to find Snoop dear Snoop ? Of course I do . 
But I want that silver cup very much , too . 
I hope your father finds it . 
But there never could be another Snoop , cried Flossie . 
Could there , Freddie ? And we could get another silver cup . 
Don't be silly , advised Bert , rather shortly . 
Oh , don't talk that way to them , said Nan . 
They do love that cat so . 
Never mind , Flossie and Freddie . 
I'm sure we'll find him soon . 
Mr. Bobbsey came back , looking somewhat worried . 
Did you find her ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey anxiously . 
No , he replied , with a shake of his head . 
She was the circus fat lady all right . 
It seems she missed the showtrain , and came on in ours . 
And , when we stopped she got out , and went up ahead . 
Part of the circus train , carrying the performers , was not damaged and that has gone on . 
The fat lady is with that , so one of the men said . 
And , very likely , she has carried off our silver cup , exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Oh dear ! Can you find her later , Richard ? I think so . 
But it will take some time . 
The circus is going to Danville that's a hundred miles from here . 
But I will write to the managers there , and ask them to get our cup from the fat lady . 
But where is Snoop ? asked Freddie , with much anxiety . 
I don't know , my dear , answered Mr. Bobbsey . 
I asked the circus men if they had seen him , but they were too busy to remember . 
He may be running around some where . 
But we can't wait any longer . 
I'll speak to one of the switchmen , who stay around here , and if they see Snoop I'll have them keep him for us . 
We'll come back tomorrow and inquire . 
But we want Snoop now ! exclaimed Freddie , fretfully . 
I'm afraid we can't get him , said Mrs. Bobbsey , gently . 
Come , children , let's go home now , and leave it to papa . 
Oh , to think of your lovely silver cup being gone ! Snoop is worse , said Flossie , almost crying . 
I I'm sorry I let the fat lady take the cup , spoke Freddie . 
Oh , you meant all right , my dear , said his mamma , and it was very kind of you . 
But we really ought to start . 
We may miss a trolley . 
Come , Dinah , can you carry all you have ? 'Deed an' I can , Mrs. Bobbsey . 
But I suah am sorry 'bout dat ar' Snoop . 
Oh , it wasn't your fault , Dinah , said Nan quickly . 
He is getting to be such a big cat that he can easily push the slats off his box , now . 
We must make it stronger next time . 
Flossie and Freddie wondered if there would be a next time , for they feared Snoop was gone forever . 
They did not worry so much about the silver cup , valuable as it was . 
With everyone in the little party carrying something , the Bobbsey family set off across , the fields toward the distant trolley line that would take them nearly home . 
The moon was well up now , and there was a good path across the fields . 
Nan and Bert were talking about the wreck , and recalling some of the funny incidents of catching the circus animals . 
Flossie and Freddie were wondering whether they would ever see their pet cat again . 
They had had him so long that he seemed like one of the family . 
Maybe he ran off and joined the circus , said Flossle . 
Maybe , spoke her brother . 
But he can't do any tricks , so they won't want him in a show . 
He can so do tricks ! He can chase his tail and almost grab it . 
It is so as much as standing on your head . 
Children children I don't know what I'll do with you if you don't stop that constant bickering , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
You must not dispute so . 
Well , mamma , but isn't chasing your tail a trick ? asked Flossie . 
Well , it isn't a circus trick , anyhow , declared her brother . 
I meant a circus trick . 
Well , Snoop is a good cat , anyhow , went on Flossie , and I wish we had him back . 
Oh , so do I ! exclaimed Freddie , and thus that little dispute ended . 
I mean I've been listening for two or three minutes now , to some animal following after us along the path . 
Some big animal , too . 
Flossie and Freddie both ran back and took hold of their mother's hands . 
Don't scare the children , Bert , said Mr. Bobbsey , a bit sternly . 
Did you really hear something ? Yes , father . 
It's some animal walking behind us . 
Listen and you can hear it your self . 
Then from down the hard dirt path they all heard the pitpat , pitpat of the footsteps of some animal . 
It was coming on slowly . 
For a moment Mr. Bobbsey thought of the wild animals of the circus . 
In spite of what the men had said perhaps one of the beasts might have escaped from its cage . 
The others in the little party evidently thought the same thing . 
Mrs. Bobbsey drew her children more closely about her . 
One of the big beasts would make more noise than that . 
It may be one of the monkeys I don't see how they could catch them all they were so lively and full of mischief . 
Oh , if it's a monkey , may we keep it ? begged Flossie . 
I just love a monkey . 
Mercy , child ! What would we do with it around the house ? cried Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Richard , can you see what it is ? Mr. Bobbsey peered down the road . 
I can see something , he said . 
Oh dear ! cried Nan , trembling with fear . 
Just then a bark sounded a friendly bark . 
It's a dog ! said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Oh , I'm so glad it wasn't an elephant , and she hugged Freddie and Flossie . 
Pooh ! I wasn't afraid ! cried Freddie . 
If it had been an elephant I I'd give him a cookie , and maybe he'd let me ride home on his back . 
The animal barked louder now , and a moment later he came into sight on a moonlit part of the path . 
The children could see that it was a big , shaggy white dog , who wagged his tail in greeting as he walked up to them . 
Oh , what a lovely dog ! cried Nan . 
I wonder where he belongs ? The fine animal came on . 
Bert snapped his fingers , boy fashion . 
Instantly the dog stood up on his hind legs and began marching about in a circle on the path . 
Oh , what a queer dog ! cried Flossie . 
Be careful ! warned Mamma Bobbsey . 
He won't hurt her ! declared Bert . 
That's a good dog , anyone can tell that . 
Here , doggie come here ! he called . 
But the dog still advanced toward Flossie , who shrank back a bit timidly . 
You never can tell what dogs will do , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
It is best to be careful . 
I guess he knew what Flossie said to him , spoke up Freddie . 
He knows we like dogs . 
The dog barked a little , and , coming up to where Flossie was , again stood on his hind legs . 
That's a queer trick , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
I guess this dog has been trained . 
He probably belongs around here . 
I wish he belonged to us , sighed Nan . 
Like Flossie and Freddie she , too , loved animals . 
Maybe we can keep him if we don't find Snoop ? suggested Freddie . 
Oh , papa , will you get Snoop back ? and Freddie's voice sounded as though he was going to cry . 
Yes , yes , of course I will , said Mr. Bobbsey quickly . 
He did not want the children to fret now , with still quite a distance yet to go home , and that in a trolley car . 
There were bundles to carry , weary children to look after , and Mrs. Bobbsey was rather tired also . 
No wonder Papa Bobbsey thought he had many things to do that night . 
Come along , children , called Mrs. Bobbsey , it is getting late , and we are only about half way to the trolley . 
Oh dear ! If that circus had to be wrecked I wish it could have waited until our train passed . 
Are you very tired ? asked her husband . 
I can take that valise . 
Lemme have it , Massa Bobbsey , pleaded Dinah . 
I ain't carryin' half enough . 
I's pow'ful strong , I is . 
Nonsense , Dinah ! said Mr. Bobbiey . 
I can manage , and your arms are full . 
I I wish she had Snoop , said Freddie , but he was so interested in watching the queer dog that he half forgot his sorrow over the lost cat . 
The dog seemed to have made great friends with Flossie . 
She was patting him on the head now , for the animal , after marching about on his hind legs , was down on all fours again . 
Oh , mamma , he's awful nice ! exclaimed Flossie . 
He's just as gentle , and he's soft , like the little toy lamb I used to have . 
Indeed he does seem to be a gentle dog , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Don't pet him any more , or he may follow us . 
Flossie , and whoever owns him would not like it . 
Forward march ! called Freddie , strutting along the moonlit path as much like a soldier as he could imitate , tired as he was . 
The Bobbseys and their faithful Dinah started off again toward the distant trolley that would take them to their home . 
The dog sat down and looked after them . 
I I wish he was ours , said Flossie wistfully , waving her hand to the dog . 
The Bobbseys had not gone on very far before Nan , looking back , called out Oh , papa , that dog is following us ! He is ? exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey . 
He must have taken a sudden liking to us . 
But I guess he'll go back where he belongs pretty soon . 
Are you getting tired , little Fat Fireman ? And you , my Fat Fairy ? Oh , no , papa , laughed Flossie . 
I sat down so much in the train that I'm glad to stand up now . 
So am I , said Freddie , who made up his mind that he would not say he was tired if his little sister did not . 
And yet , truth to tell , the little Fat Fireman was very weary . 
On and on went the Bobbsey family , and soon Bert happened to look back , and gave a whistle of surprise . 
That dog isn't going home , papa , he said . 
He's still after us , and look ! now he's running . 
They all glanced back on hearing this . 
Surely enough the big white dog was running after them , wagging his tail joyfully , and barking from time to time . 
This will never do ! exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey . 
Whoever owns him may think we are trying to take him away . 
Go home ! Go back , sir ! exclaimed Papa Bobbsey in stern tones . 
The dog stopped wagging his tail . 
Then he sat down on the path , and calmly waited . 
Mr. Bobbsey walked toward him . 
Oh , don't don't whip him , papa ! exclaimed Flossie . 
I don't intend to , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
But I must be stern with him or he will think I'm only playing . 
Go back ! he cried . 
The dog stretched out on the path , his head down between his fore paws . 
He he looks sad , said Freddie . 
Maybe he hasn't any home , papa . 
Oh , of course a valuable dog like that has a home , declared Bert . 
But maybe they didn't treat him kindly , and he is looking for a new one , suggested Nan , hopefully . 
He doesn't seem illtreated , spoke Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Oh , I do wish he'd go back , so we could go on . 
Mr. Bobbsey pretended to pick up a stone and throw it at the dog , as masters sometimes do when they do not want their dogs to follow them . 
This dog only wagged his tail , as though he thought it the best joke he had ever known . 
Go back ! Go back , I say ! cried Papa Bobbsey in a loud voice . 
The dog did not move . 
I guess he won't follow us any more , went on Mr. Bobbsey . 
Hurry along now , children . 
We are almost at the trolley . 
He turned away from the dog , who seemed to be asleep now , and the family went on . 
Is he coming ? asked Flossie . 
He certainly is , answered Bert , who was in the rear . 
I guess he wants us to take him home with us . 
Oh , let's do it ! begged Flossie . 
Please , papa , pleaded Freddie . 
We haven't got Snoop now , so let us have a dog . 
And I'm sure we could teach him to do tricks he's so smart . 
And so he's coming after us still ! exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey . 
Well , well , I don't know what to do , and he came to a stop on the path . 
Couldn't we take him home just for to night ? asked Nan , and then in the morning we could find out who owns him and return him . 
Oh , please do , begged Freddie and Flossie , impulsively . 
But how can we take him on a trolley car ? asked Mr. Bobbsey . 
The conductor would not let us . 
Maybe he would if he was a kind man , suggested Freddie . 
We could tell him how it was , and how we lost our cat . 
And our silver cup , added Flossie . 
Well , certainly the dog doesn't seem to want to go home , said Mr. Bobbsey , after he had tried two or three times more to drive the animal back . 
But it would not go . 
Go on a little farther , suggested Mrs. Bobbsey . 
By the time we get to the trolley he may get tired , and go back . 
And if we want to lose him I think we can , by getting on the car quickly . 
But we don't want to lose him ! cried Freddie . 
No , no ! said Flossie . 
We want to keep him . 
He can run along behind the trolley car . 
I'll ask the motorman to go slow , papa . 
My ! This has been a mixedup day ! sighed Mr. Bobbsey . 
I really don't know what to do . 
The dog seemed to think that he was one of the family , now . 
He came up to Flossie and Freddie and let them pat him . 
His tail kept wagging all the while . 
Well , we'll see what happens where we get to the trolley , decided Mr. Bobbsey , thinking that there would be the best and only place to get rid of the dog . 
Freddie and Flossie came on , the dog between them , and this seemed to suit the fine animal . 
He had found friends , now , he evidently thought . 
Mr. Bobbsey wondered why so valuable a dog would leave its home . 
And he was very much puzzled as to what he should do if the children insisted on keeping the animal , and if it came aboard the trolley car . 
There's the car ! exclaimed Bert , as they went around another turn in the path and came to a road . 
Down it could be seen the headlight of an approaching trolley , and also the twin lamps of an oncoming automobile . 
Look out for the auto , children ! cried Mrs. Bobbsey . 
They stood at the side of the road , and as the auto came up the man in it slowed down his machine . 
It was a big car and he was alone in it . 
Well , I declare ! exclaimed the autoist , as his engine stopped . 
Oh , our train was held back by a circus wreck , so we walked across the lots to the car . 
We're homeward bound from the seashore . 
Well , well ! A circus wreck , eh ? Where did you get the dog ? Oh , he followed us , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
And we're going to keep him , too ! exclaimed Flossie . 
And take him in the trolley with us , added her little brother . 
Well , well ! exclaimed Mr. Blake . 
Say , now , I have a better plan than that , he went on . 
Come , Dinah , I see you , too . 
Yes , sah , Massa Blake , I'se heah ! Can't lose ole Dinah ! But we lost our cat , Snoop ! said Flossie regretfully . 
And we nearly ran over an elephant , added Freddie , bound that his sister should not tell all the news . 
Well , get in the auto , invited Mr. Blake . 
Do you really mean it ? asked Mr. Bobbsey . 
Perhaps we are keeping you from going somewhere . 
Pile in , and you'll soon be home . 
Can we bring the dog , too ? asked Flossie . 
Yes , there's plenty of room for the dog , laughed Mr. Blake . 
But the strange dog did not need lifting . 
He sprang into the tonneau of the auto as soon as the door was opened . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bobbsey lifted in Flossie and Freddie , and Nan and Bert followed . 
Then in got Papa and Mamma Bobbsey and Mr. Blake started off . 
This is lovely , said Mrs. Bobbsey with a sigh of relief . 
She was more tired than she had thought . 
It certainly is kind of you , Mr. Blake , said Papa Bobbsey . 
I'm only too glad I happened to meet you . 
Are you children comfortable ? Yep ! chorused Freddie and Flossie . 
And the dog ? We're holding him so he won't fall out , explained Flossie . 
She and her little brother had the dog between them . 
On went the auto , and with the telling of the adventures of the day the journey seemed very short . 
Soon the Bobbsey home was reached . 
There were lights in it , for Sam , the colored man , had been telephoned to , to have the place opened for the family . 
Sam came out on the stoop to greet them and his wife Dinah . 
Here we are ! cried Papa Bobbsey . 
Come , Flossie Freddie we're home . 
Flossie and Freddie did not answer . 
They were fast asleep , their heads on the shaggy back of the big dog . 
I'll take 'em , said Sam kindly . 
Many a time I'se carried 'em in offen de porch when dey falled asleep . 
And he did , first taking Flossie , and then Freddie . 
Where where are we ? asked Flossie , rubbing her eyes and looking around the room which she had not seen in some months . 
An' an' where's our dog ? demanded Freddie . 
Oh , bless your hearts that dog ! cried Mamma Bobbsey . 
Sam took him out in the barn . 
You may see him in the morning , if he doesn't run away in the night . 
The twins looked worried over this suggestion , until Sam said Oh , I locked him up good an' proper in a box stall 'deed an' I did , Mrs. Bobbsey . 
He won't get away tonight . 
That's good , murmured Freddie , and then he fell asleep again . 
Soon the little twins were undressed and put to bed Nan and Bert soon followed , but Mr. and Mrs. Bobbsey stayed up a little later to talk over certain matters . 
It's good to be home again , said Mr. Bobbsey , as he looked about the rooms of the town house . 
Yes , but we had a delightful summer , spoke his wife , and the children are so well . 
The country was delightful , and so was the seashore . 
But I think I , too , am glad to be back . 
It will be quite a task , though , to get the children ready for school . 
Flossie and Freddie will go regularly now , I suppose , and with Nan and Bert in a higher class , it means plenty of work . 
I suppose so , said her husband . 
But Dinah is a great help , went on Mrs. Bobbsey , for she did not mean to complain . 
There will be plenty of time to start them in the Fall , said Mrs. Bobbsey , and so it had been arranged . 
And now the four twins were all to attend the same school , which would open in about a week . 
Flossie and Freddie were both up early the next morning , and , scarcely halfdressed , they hurried out to the barn . 
Whar yo' chillers gwine ? demanded Dinah , as she prepared to get breakfast . 
Out to see our dog , answered Freddie . 
Is Sam around ? Yes , he's out dere somewheres , washin' de carriage . 
But don't yo' let dat dog bite yo' . 
We won't , said Freddie . 
He wouldn't bite anyhow , declared Flossie . 
What shall we call him ? asked Freddie . 
Maybe we'd better name him Snoop , like our cat . 
I guess Snoop is gone forever . 
No , we mustn't call him Snoop , said Flossie , for some day our cat might come back , and he'd want his own name again . 
We'll call our dog Snap , 'cause see how bright his eyes snap . 
Then if our cat comes back we'll have Snoop and Snap . 
That's a good name , decided Freddie , after thinking it over . 
I wonder how we can make this dog stand on his hind legs like he did before ? Bert snapped his fingers and he did it , suggested Flossie . 
But maybe he'll do it now if you just ask him to . 
Freddie tried to snap his fingers , but they were too short and fat . 
Then he patted the dog an the head and said Stand up ! At once the dog , with a bark , did so . 
He sat up on his hind legs and then walked around . 
I wonder if he can do any other tricks ? asked Flossie . 
I'm going to try , said her brother . 
What trick do you want him to do ? Make him lie down and roll over . 
All right , spoke Freddie . 
Now , Snap , lie down and roll over ! he called . 
I wonder who taught him those tricks ? Let's see if he can do any more , said Freddie . 
There's a barrel hoop over there . 
Maybe he'll jump through it if we hold it up Oh , let's do it ! cried Flossie , as she ran to get the hoop . 
Snap barked at the sight of it , and capered about as though he knew just what it was for , and was pleased at the chance to do more of his tricks . 
The hoop was a large one , and Freddie alone could not hold it very steady . 
So Flossie took hold of one side . 
As soon as they were in position , Freddie called Come on now , Snap . 
Jump ! Snap barked , ran back a little way , turned around and came racing straight for the twins . 
At that moment Sam Johnson came up running , a stick in his hand . 
Heah ! heah ! shouted the colored man , You let dem chillers alone , dog ! Go 'way , I tells yo' ! That's all right , Sam , said Freddie . 
He's our new dog Snap , and he's going to do a trick , for the colored gardener had supposed the dog was running at Flossie and Freddie to bite them . 
Snap paid no attention to Sam , but raced on . 
When a short distance from where Flosxie and Freddie held the hoop , Snap jumped up into the air , and shot straight through the wooden circle , landing quite a way off . 
Mah gracious sakes alive ! gasped Sam . 
In a moment Snap raced up , and jumped over the stick . 
Oh , look ! cried Flossie . 
Another trick ! exclaimed Freddie . 
Mah gracious goodness ! cried Sam . 
Dat suah am wonderful ! Snap ran about barking in delight . 
He seemed happy to be doing tricks . 
Let's go tell papa , said Freddie . 
He'll want to know about this . 
Oh , I do hope he lets us keep him , said Flossie . 
Mr. Bobbsey had not yet gone to his lumber office . 
He listened to what the little twins had to tell them about Snap , who lay on the lawn , seeming to listen to his own praises . 
A trick dog eh ? exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey . 
I wonder who owns him ? Maybe he escaped from the circus , suggested Bert , who came out just then to see how his pigeons were getting along . 
That's it ! cried Mr. Bobbsey . 
I wonder I did not think of it before . 
The dog must have escaped from the wrecked circus train , and he followed us , not knowing what else to do . 
That accounts for his tricks . 
But we can keep him can't we ? begged Flossie . 
Hum ! I'll have to see about that , said Mr. Bobbsey slowly . 
I suppose the circus people will want him back , for he must be valuable . 
Perhaps some clown trained him . 
But if we can't have Snoop , our cat , we ought to have a dog , asserted Freddie . 
I'll try to get Snoop back , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
I'll have one of my men go down to the place where the wreck was , today , and inquire of the railroad men . 
He may be wandering about there . 
Poor Snoop ! said Nan , coming out to feed some of her pet chickens , that Sam had looked after all summer . 
I will , replied Mr. Bobbsey . 
I will have to write to them anyhow , about the dog , and at the same time I'll ask about the cup . 
Though I don't believe the fat lady meant to keep it . 
Oh , no , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Probably she just held it , in the excitement over the wreck , and she may have left it in the car . 
But please write about it . 
I will , promised Mr. Bobbsey , as he started for the office , while the twins gathered about the new dog , who seemed ready to do more tricks . 
CHAPTER Vl DANNY RUGG IS MEAN THAT afternoon a small fire broke out in Mr. Bobbsey's lumber yard . 
The alarm bell rang , and Mrs. Bobbsey , hearing it , and knowing by the number that the blaze must be near her husband's place of business , came hurrying down stairs . 
Oh , I must go and see how dangerous it is , she said to Dinah . 
It is too bad to have it happen just after Mr. Bobbsey comes back from his summer vacation . 
'Deed it am ! cried the fat , colored cook . 
But maybe it am only a little fire , Mrs. Bobbsey . 
I'm sure I hope so , was the answer . 
As Mrs. Bobbsey was hurrying down the front walk Flossie and Freddie saw her . 
Where are you going , mamma ? they called . 
Down to papa's office , she answered . 
There's a fire near his place , and Oh , a fire ! Then I'm going ! cried Freddie . 
Fire ! Fire ! Ding , dong ! Turn on the water ! and he raced about quite excitedly . 
Oh , I don't know , said Mrs. Bobbsey , in doubt . 
Where are Nan and Bert ? she asked . 
They went down to the lake , said Flossie . 
Oh , mamma , do take us to the fire with you . 
Hi , Snap ! he called . 
The trick dog came rushing from the stable , barking and wagging his tail . 
Well , I suppose I might as well take you , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
But you must stay near me . 
We'll leave Snap home , though . 
Oh , no ! cried Freddie . 
He might get lost , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
That was enough for Freddie . 
He did not want the new pet to get lost , so he did not make a fuss when Sam came hurrying up to lock Snap in the stable . 
Poor Snap howled , for he wanted very much to go with the children . 
The fire was , as I have said , a small one , in part of the planing mill . 
But the engines puffed away , and spurted water , and this pleased Freddie . 
Flossie stayed close to her mother , and Mrs. Bobbsey , once she found out that the main lumber yard was not in danger , was ready to come back home . 
But Freddie wanted to stay until the fire was wholly out . 
Mr. Bobbsey came from his office to give some directions to the firemen , and saw his wife and the two twins . 
Then he took charge of them , and led them as close to the blaze as was safe . 
It will soon be out , he said . 
It was only some sawdust that got on fire . 
I wish I could squirt some water ! sighed Freddie . 
What's that ? Do you want to be a fireman ? asked one of the men in a rubber coat and a big helmet . 
He smiled at Mr. Bobbsey , whom he knew quite well . 
Yes , I do , said Freddie . 
Then come with me , and I'll let you help hold the hose , said the fireman . 
I'll look after him , he went on , to Mrs. Bobbsey , and she nodded to show that Freddie could go . 
What a good time the little fellow had , standing beside a real fireman , and helping throw real water on a real fire ! Freddie never forgot that . 
Did you write to the circus people today about our silver cup , and that trick dog ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey of her husband , that night . 
I declare , I didn't ! he exclaimed . 
The fire upset me so that it slipped my mind . 
I'll do it the first thing tomorrow . 
There is no special hurry . 
How is the dog , by the way ? Oh , he's just lovely ! cried Flossie . 
And I do hope we can keep him forever ! exclaimed Freddie . 
'Specially since Snoop is gone . 
Did you hear anything about our cat ? asked Nan , of her father . 
No. I sent a man to the railroad company , but no stray cat had been found . 
I am afraid Snoop is lost , children . 
Oh dear ! cried Flossie . 
There ! he exclaimed as he sent the letter to be mailed , now we'll just have to wait for an answer . 
Nan and Bert , and Flossie and Freddie were soon having almost as much fun as they had had at the seashore and in the country . 
Their town playmates , who had come back from their vacations , called at the Bobbsey home , and made up games and all sorts of sports . 
For , said Grace Lavine , with whom Nan sometimes played , school will soon begin , and we want to have all the fun we can until then . 
Let's jump rope , proposed Nan . 
All right , agreed Grace . 
Here comes Nellie Parks , and we'll see who can jump the most . 
No , you mustn't do that , said Nan . 
Don't you remember how you once tried to jump a hundred , and you fainted ? Indeed I do , said Grace . 
I'm not going to be so silly as to try that again . 
We'll only jump a little . 
Soon Nan and her chums were having good time in the yard . 
Charley Mason , with whom Bert sometimes played , came over , and the two boys went for a row on the lake , in Bert's boat . 
Some little friends of Flossie and Freddie came over , and they had fun watching Snap do tricks . 
For the circus dog , as he had come to be called , seemed to be able to do some new trick each day . 
He could play dead , and say his prayers , besides turning a back somersault . 
The little twins , who seemed to claim more share in Snap than did Nan and Bert , did not really know how many tricks their pet could do . 
Maybe you'll have to give him back to the circus , said Willie Flood , one of Freddie's chums . 
Well , if we do , papa may buy him , or get another dog like him , spoke Flossie . 
A few days after this , when Bert was out in the front yard , watering the grass with a hose , along came Danny Rugg . 
Hello , Bert ! exclaimed Danny , leaning on the fence . 
I hear you have a trick circus dog here . 
Who told you ? asked Bert , wondering what Danny would say next . 
He says you found him . 
I didn't , spoke Bert , spraying a bed of geranium flowers . 
He followed us the night of the circus wreck . 
Well , you took him all the same . 
I know who owns him , too and I'm going to tell that you've got him . 
Oh , are you ? asked Bert . 
Well , we think he belongs to the circus , and my father has written about it , so you needn't trouble yourself . 
He doesn't belong to any circus , went on Danny . 
That dog belongs to Mr. Peterson , who lives over in Millville . 
He lost a trick dog , and he adverstised for it . 
He's going to give a reward . 
I'm going to tell him , and get the money . 
You can't take our dog away ! cried Freddie , coming up just then . 
Don't you dare do it , Danny Rugg . 
Yes , I will ! exclaimed the mean boy , who often teased the smaller Bobbsey twins . 
You won't have that dog after today . 
Don't mind him , Freddie , said Bert in a low voice . 
He's trying to scare you . 
Oh , I am eh ? cried Danny . 
I'll show you what I'm trying to do . 
I'll tell on you for keeping a dog that don't belong to you , and you'll be arrested all of you . 
Freddie looked worried , and tears came into his eyes . 
Bert saw this , and was angry at Danny for being so mean . 
Don't be afraid , Freddie , said Bert , Look , I'll let you squirt the hose , and you can pretend to be a fireman . 
Oh , fine ! cried Freddie , in delight , as he took the nozzle from his older brother . 
Just how it happened neither of them could tell , but the stream of water shot right at Danny Rugg , and wet him all over in a second . 
Hi there ! he cried . 
Stop that ! I'll pay you back for that , Fred Bobbsey , and he jumped over the fence and ran toward the little fellow . 
CHAPTER VII AT SCHOOL FREDDIE saw Danny coming , and did the most natural thing in the world . 
He dropped the hose and ran . 
And you know what a hose , with water bursting from the nozzle will sometimes do if you don't hold it just right . 
Well , this hose did that . 
It seemed to aim itself straight at Danny , and again the rough boy received a charge of water full in the face . 
Ha ha here ! You quit that ! he gasped . 
I'll fix you for that ! The water got in his eyes and mouth , and for a moment he could not see . 
But with his handkerchief he soon had his eyes cleared , and then he came running toward Bert . 
Danny Rugg was larger than Bert , and stronger , and , in addition , was a bullying sort of chap , almost always ready to fight some one smaller than himself . 
But what Bert lacked in size and strength he made up in a bold Spirit . 
He was not at all afraid of Danny , even when the bully came rushing at him . 
Bert stood his ground manfully . 
He had taken up the hose where Freddie had dropped it , and the water was spurting out in a solid stream . 
Freddie , having gotten a safe distance away , now turned and stood looking at Danny . 
Danny , too , had halted and was fairly glaring at Bert , who looked at him a bit anxiously . 
More than once he and the bully had come to blows , and sometimes Bert had gotten the best of it . 
Still he did not like a fight . 
I'll get you yet , Freddie Bobbsey ! cried Danny , shaking his fist at the little fellow . 
Whereupon Freddie turned and ran toward the house . 
Danny saw that he could not catch him in time , and so he turned to Bert . 
You put him up to do that to douse me with water ! cried Danny angrily . 
I did not , said Bert quietly . 
It was just an accident . 
But if you want to think Freddie did it on purpose I can't stop you . 
Well , I'm going to hit you just the same , growled Danny , and he stepped toward Bert . 
You'd better look out , said Bert , with just a little smile . 
There's still a lot of water in this hose , and he brought the nozzle around in front , ready to squirt on Danny if the bad boy should come too near . 
Danny came to a stop . 
Don't you dare put any more water on me ! cried the bully . 
If you do , I'll He doubled up his fists and glared at Bert . 
Then don't you come any nearer if you don't want to get wet , said Bert . 
This hose might sprinkle you by accident , the same as it did when Freddie had it , he added . 
Huh ! I know what kind of an accident that was ! spoke Danny , with a sneer . 
You'd better get out of the way , went on Bert quietly . 
I want to sprinkle that flower bed near where you are , and if you're there you might get wet , and it wouldn't my fault . 
I'll fix you ! growled Danny , springing forward . 
Bert got ready with the hose , and there might have been more trouble , except that Sam , the colored man , came out on the lawn . 
If yo' need any help , jest remembah dat I'm around , spoke Sam , with a wide grin that showed his white teeth in his black , but kindly face . 
I'l be right handy by , Massa Bert , yes , I will ! All right , said Bert , as he went on watering the flowers . 
Huh ! You needn't think I'm afraid of you ! boasted Danny , but he kept on out of the gate just the same . 
Sam went back to his work , of weeding the vegetable garden and Bert watered the flowers . 
Pretty soon Freddie came back . 
Did did Danny do anything to you ? the little fellow wanted to know . 
No , Freddie , but the hose did something to him , said Bert . 
Oh , did it wet him again ? That's what it did . 
Ha ! Ha ! laughed Freddie . 
I wish I'd been here to see it , Bert . 
Well , why did you run ? Oh , I I thought maybe mamma might want me , answered Freddie , but Bert understood , and smiled . 
Then he let Freddie finish watering the flowers , after which Freddie played he was a fireman , saving houses from burning by means of the hose . 
Snap , the trick dog came running out , followed by Flossie , who had just been washed and combed , her mother having put a clean dress on her . 
Oh , Freddie , said the little girl , let's make Snap do some tricks . 
See if he will jump over the stream of water from the hose . 
All right , agreed her little brother . 
I'll squirt the water out straight , and you stand on one side of it and call Snap over . 
Flossie tried this , but at first the dog did not seem to want to do this particular trick . 
He played soldier , said his prayers , stood on his hind legs , and turned a somersault . 
But he would not jump over the water . 
Come , Snap , Snap ! called Flossie . 
Jump ! Snap raced about and barked , and seemed to be having all sorts of fun , but jump he would not until he got ready . 
Then , when he did Freddie accidentally lowered the nozzle and Snap was soaked . 
But the dog did not mind the water in the least . 
In fact he seemed to like it , for the day was warm , and he stood still and let Freddie wet him all over . 
Then Snap rolled about on the lawn , Freddie and Flossie taking turns sprinkling . 
Nan , coming from the house saw this . 
And you're just as bad ! cried Nan . 
You'd both better go in the house right away , and stop playing with the hose . 
We're through , anyhow , said Freddie . 
You ought to see Snap jump over the water . 
Oh , you children ! cried Nan , with a shake of her head . 
She seemed like a little mother to them at times , though she was only four years older . 
Mrs. Bobbsey was very sorry to see Flossie so wet and bedraggled , and said You should have known better than to play with water with a clean dress on , Flossie . 
Now I must punish you . 
You will have to stay in the house for an hour , and so will Freddie . 
Poor little Bobbsey twins ! But then it was not a very severe punishment , and really some was needed . 
It was hard when two of their little playmates came and called for them to come out . 
But Mrs. Bobbsey insisted on the two remaining in until the hour was at an end . 
Then , when they had on dry garments , and could go out , there was no one with whom to play . 
I'm not going to squirt the hose ever again , said Freddie . 
Neither am I , said his sister . 
Never , never ! Snap didn't say anything . 
He lay on the porch asleep , being cooled off after his sport with the water . 
I I wish we had our cat , Snoop , back , said Flossie . 
Then we wouldn't have played in the water . 
That's so , agreed Freddie . 
He seems to have disappeared . 
But , anyhow , you have Snap . 
But some one may come along and claim him , said Freddie . 
That Danny Rugg says he belongs to Mr. Peterson in Millville , father , said Bert . 
Well , I'll call Mr. Peterson up on the telephone tomorrow , and find out , spoke Mr. Bobbsey . 
That much will be settled , at any rate . 
Did you hear anything from the circus people about the fat lady ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Yes , but no news , was her husband's answer . 
The circus has gone to Cuba and Porto Rico for the winter , and I will have to write there . 
But we may find the fat lady and the cup some day . 
And Snoop , too , put in Nan . 
One fact consoled the Bobbseys in their trouble over their lost pet and cup . 
This was the answer received by Mr. Bobbsey from Mr. Peterson . 
That gentleman had lost a valuable dog , but it was a small poodle , and unlike big Snap . 
So far no one had claimed the trick dog , and it seemed likely that the children could keep him . 
They were very glad about this . 
Oh dear ! exclaimed Bert , one afternoon a few days following the fun with the hose , school begins Monday . 
I like school , said Nan . 
There are lot of new girls coming this term , I hear . 
Any new fellows ? asked Bert , more interested . 
There is a new teacher in the kindergarten , though , where Flossie and Freddie will go . 
Nellie Parks has met her , and says she's awfully nice . 
That's good , spoke Flossie . 
Well , I hope you and Freddie will get along well , said Mamma Bobbsey . 
You are getting older you know , and you must soon begin to study hard . 
We will , they promised . 
The school bell , next Monday morning , called to many rather unwilling children . 
The long vacation was over and class days had begun once more . 
The four Bobbseys went off together to the building , which was only a few blocks from their home . 
Mr. Tetlow was the principal , and there were half a dozen lady teachers . 
Hello , Nan , greeted Grace Lavine . 
May I sit with you this term ? Oh , I was going to ask her , said Nellie Parks . 
Well , I was first , spoke Grace , with a pout . 
We'll be in the room where there are three seated desks , said Nan with a smile . 
Maybe we three can be together . 
Oh , we'll ask teacher ! cried Nellie . 
That will be lovely ! I'm going to sit with Freddie , declared Flossie . 
We're to be together mamma said so . 
Of course , dear , agreed Nan . 
I'll speak to your teacher about it . 
Bert was walking in the rear with Charley Mason , when Danny Rugg came around a corner . 
I know what I'm going to do to you after school , Bert Bobbsey ! called the bully . 
You just wait and see . 
A right I'll wait spoke Bert quietly . 
By this time they were at the school , and it was nearly time for the last bell to ring . 
Danny went off to join some of his particular chums , shaking his fist at Bert as he went . 
CHAPTER VIII BERT SEES SOMETHING LESSONS were not very well learned that first day in school , but this is generally the case when the Fall term opens after the Summer vacation . 
Many of the children were in new rooms and different classes , and this did not make them feel so much at home as before vacation . 
Nan Bobbsey's first duty , after reporting to her new teacher , was to go to the kindergarten room , and ask the teacher there if Flossie and Freddie might sit together . 
You see , Nan explained , this is really their first real school work . 
They attended a few times before , but did not stay long . 
I see , spoke the pretty kindergarten instructor with a laugh , and we must make it as pleasant for them this time as we can , so they will want to stay . 
Yes , my dear , Flossie and Freddie may sit together , and I'll look after them as much as I can . 
But , oh , there are such a lot of little tots ! and she looked about the room that seemed overflowing with small boys and girls . 
Some were playing and talking , telling of their summer experiences . 
Others seemed frightened , and stood against the wall bashfully , little girls holding to the hands of their little brothers . 
Nan looked for Freddie and Flossie . 
It was his first day at school . 
They are too cute for anything the little dears ! And they are very good , said Nan , only of course they do things sometimes . 
They wouldn't be real children if they didn't , answered the teacher . 
This was during a recess that had come after the classes were first formed . 
On her way back to her room , to see if she could arrange to sit with Grace and Nellie at one of the new big desks , Nan saw her brother Bert . 
Yes there is , insisted Nan . 
I can tell by your face . 
It's that Danny Rugg I'm sure . 
Oh , Bert , is he bothering you again ? Well , he said he was going to . 
Then why don't you go straight and tell Mr. Tetlow ? He'll make Danny behave . 
I'll go tell him myself ! Don't you are sic , Nan ! cried Bert . 
All the fellows would call me 'sissy , if I let you do that . 
Never mind , I can look out for my self . 
I'm not afraid of Danny . 
Oh , Bert , I hope you don't get into fight . 
I won't , Nan if I can help it . 
At least I won't hit first , but if he hits me Bert looked as though he knew what he would do in that case . 
He won't know it , thought Nan . 
Meanwhile Flossie and Freddie got along very well in the kindergarten . 
This is like the one where we were this Summer , said Flossie , as she made a hole in her sand pile to take the place of the ocean . 
If I had water and a piece of wood I could show you where there was a shipwreck , she said to the girl next to her . 
That isn't the way it was , spoke Freddie , from the other side of the room . 
There was more sand at the seashore than on this whole table yes , on ten tables like this . 
There was not ! cried Flossie . 
There was too ! insisted her brother . 
Children children ! called the teacher . 
You must not argue like that ever in school , or out of it . 
Now we will sing our worksong , and after that we will march with the flags , and she went to the piano to play . 
All the little ones liked this , and the dispute of Flossie and Freddie was soon forgotten . 
Fought ! exclaimed the teacher . 
The book says they gave thanks . 
Well , I meant they fought the er the Indians . 
Poor Bert was thinking of what might take place between himself and the bully . 
Well , yes , they did fight the Indians , admitted the teacher , but that wasn't what I was thinking of . 
I will ask you another question in history . 
But I am not going to tire you with an account of what went on in the classrooms . 
There were mostly lessons there , such as you have yourselves , and I know you don't care to read about them . 
Bert did not see Danny Rugg at the noon recess , when the Bobbsey twins and the other children went home for lunch . 
It was in a field some distance from the school , and no houses were near . 
Now I've got you , Bert Bobbsey ! taunted Danny , as he advanced with doubledup fists . 
What did you want to squirt the hose on me that time for ? I told you it was an accident , said Bert quietly . 
And I say you did it on purpose . 
I said I'd get even with you , and now I'm going to . 
I don't want to fight , Danny , said Bert quietly . 
Huh ! he's afraid ! sneered Jack Westly , one of Danny's friends . 
Yes , he's a coward ! taunted Danny . 
I'm not ! cried Bert stoutly . 
Then take that ! exclaimed Danny , and he gave Bert a push that nearly knocked him down . 
Bert put out a hand to save himself and struck Danny , not really meaning to . 
There ! He hit you back ! cried one boy . 
Yes , go on in , now , Dan , and beat him ! said another . 
Oh , I'll fix him now , boasted Danny , circling around Bert . 
He did not mean to let Danny get the best of him if he could help it , much as he did not like to fight . 
Danny struck Bert on the chest , and Bert hit the bully on the cheek . 
Then Danny jumped forward swiftly and tried to give Bert a blow on the head . 
But Bert stepped to one side , and Danny slipped down to the ground . 
As he did so a white box fell from his pocket . 
For the box had in it cigarettes . 
Danny saw where it had fallen , and picked it up quickly . 
Anyhow , you knocked him down , Bert , said Charley Mason , as he ran on with Bert . 
You beat ! He did not I slipped , said Danny . 
I can fight him , and I will , too , some day . 
I'm not afraid of you , answered Bert . 
Mr. Tetlow did not appear to have seen the fight that amounted to so little . 
Perhaps he pretended not to . 
When he passed him he scowled , or shook his fist , or muttered something about getting even , but this was all . 
Perhaps it was the thought of what Bert had seen fall from Danny's pocket that made the bully less anxious to keep up the quarrel . 
At any rate , Bert was left alone and he was glad of it . 
He was not afraid , but he liked peace . 
The school days went on , and the classes settled down to their work for the long Winter term . 
And the thought of the snow and ice that would comparatively soon be with them , made the Bobbsey twins rejoice . 
Charley Mason and I are going to make a dandy big bob this year , said Bert one day . 
It's going to carry ten fellows . 
And no girls ? asked Nan with a smile . 
She was walking along behind her brother , with Grace and Nellie . 
Sure , we'll let you girls ride once in a while , said Charley , as he caught up to his chum . 
I steered a bob once , said Grace , who was quite athletic for her age . 
It was Danny Rugg's , too . 
Pooh ! His is a little one alongside the one Charley and I are going to make ! exclaimed Bert . 
Ours will be hard to steer , and it's going to have a gong on it to tell folks to get out of the way . 
That's right , agreed Charley . 
And we'd better start it right away , Bert . 
It doesn't feel so now , spoke Nan . 
It feels more like ice cream cones . 
And if you'll come with me I'll treat you all to some , exclaimed Nellie Parks , whose father was quite well off . 
I have some of my birthday money left . 
Oh , but there are five of us ! cried Nan , counting . 
That is too much twenty five cents , Nellie . 
I've got fifty , and really it is very hot today . 
It was warm , being the end of September , with Indian Summer near at hand . 
Well , let's go to Johnson's , suggested Nellie . 
They have the best cream . 
Oh , here comes Flossie and Freddie ! exclaimed Nan . 
We don't want to take them , Nellie . 
That means Of course I'll take them ! exclaimed Nellie , generously . 
I've got fifty cents , I told you . 
I'll give them each a penny and let them run along home , offered Bert . 
No , I'm going to treat them , too , insisted Nellie . 
Come on ! she called to the little twins , we're going to get ice cream cones , it's so warm . 
Oh , goodie ! cried Flossie . 
I was just wishing for one . 
So was I , added her brother . 
And I'll ask you to my party next week , the little girl went on . 
I'm going to have one on my birthday . 
Oh , are you really , Flossie ? asked Nan . 
I hadn't heard about it . 
Mamma said I could , but she told me not to tell . 
I don't care , I wanted Nellie to know , as she's going to treat us to cones . 
And it's half my party , 'cause my birthday's the same day , explained Freddie . 
So you can come to my party at the same time , Nellie . 
Thank you , dear , I shall . 
Now let's hurry to the store , for it's getting warmer all the while . 
The ice cream in the funny little cones was much enjoyed by all . 
Bert and Charley walked on together eating , and talking of the bob sled they were going to make . 
They passed Danny Rugg , who looked rather enviously at them . 
Hey , Charley , called Danny , come here , I want to speak to you . 
I'm busy now , answered Charley . 
Bert and I have something to do . 
So have I. I've got a dandy plan . 
Well , I'll see you later , spoke Charley . 
The two boys went on to Bert's barn , where they were going to build the bob sled . 
The girls , with Flossie and Freddie , went on the Bobbsey lawn , where there were some easy chairs . 
They sat in the shade of the trees , and Freddie had Snap do some of his tricks for the visitors . 
Can he jump through a hoop , covered with paper as they do in the circus ? asked Nellie . 
Oh , we never thought to try that , said Freddie . 
I'm going to make one , and , filled with this new idea , he hurried into the house . 
Dinah , he said , I want some paper and paste . 
Land sakes , chile ! what yo' gwine t' do now ? asked the colored cook . 
Make a kite , an' take Snoop up in de air laik yo' brother Bert done once ? No , we're not going to do that , answered the little boy . 
We're going to cover a hoop with paper , and make Snap jump through it , like in a circus . 
Mah goodness mustard pot ! cried Dinah . 
What will yo' all be up to next ? I don't know , answered Freddie . 
But will you make me some paste , Dinah ? And you know we haven't got Snoop , anyhow , so we couldn't send him up on a kite tail , added Freddie . 
Flossie and Freddie insisted on making the paper covered hoop themselves . 
But we can help , can't we ? asked Freddie . 
Even for Nan covering a hoop with paper was not as easy as she thought it would be . 
Grace and Nellie helped , but sometimes the wind would blow the paper away just as they were ready to fold it around the rim of the hoop . 
Then the paste would get on the girls' hands . 
What are you doing ? asked Bert , as he and Charley came from the barn . 
They had to stop work on their job , as they could not find a long enough plank . 
The sic decided to get one from Mr. Bobbsey's lumber yard , later . 
We're going to have Snap do the circus trick of jumping through a paper hoop , explained Nan . 
Only we can't seem to get the hoop made . 
I'll do it , offered Bert , and as he and Charley had often pasted paper on their kite frames they had better luck , and soon the hoop was ready . 
Come , Snap ! called Freddie , it having been settled that he and Flossie were to hold the hoop for the dog to leap through . 
Snap , always ready for fun , jumped up from the grass where he had been sleeping , and frisked about , barking loudly . 
Now you hold him there , Charley , directed Bert , pointing to a spot back of where Freddie and Flossie stood . 
Then I'll go over here and call him . 
He'll come running , and when he gets near enough , Freddie , you and Flossie hold up the paper hoop . 
He'll go right through it . 
It worked out just as the children had planned . 
Snap raced away from Charley , when he heard Bert calling . 
He ran right between Flossie and Freddie , who raised the hoop just in time . 
Rip ! Tear ! burst the paper , and Snap sailed through the hoop just as he probably had often done in the circus , perhaps from the back of a horse . 
Oh , that was fine ! cried Flossie . 
Oh , yes ! agreed his sister . 
Well , they did make more hoops , and Snap seemed to enjoy jumping through them . 
But when Mrs. Bobbsey heard about the circus plans she decided it would make too much confusion . 
Besides , you have to help me get ready for your party , she said to the two little twins . 
This took their mind off the proposed circus , but for several days after that they had much fun making hoops for Snap to jump through . 
Bert and Charley got a long plank from the lumber yard , and spent much time after school in the Bobbsey barn , working over their bob sled . 
It was harder than they had thought it would be , and they had to call in some other boys to help them . 
Mr. Bobbsey , too , gave his son some advice about how to build it . 
Flossie and Freddie liked it very much in school . 
The kindergarten teacher was very kind , and took an interest in all her pupils . 
Oh , mamma ! cried Flossie , coming in one day from school , I've learned how to make a house . 
And I can make a lantern , and a chain to hang it on , and I can put it in front of Flossie's house ! exclaimed Freddie . 
And , please , mother , may I have some bread and jam . 
Yes , dear , go ask Dinah , said Mrs. Bobbsey , with a smile . 
And then you may show me how you make houses and lanterns and a chain . 
Are they real ? No , said Flossie , they're only paper , but they look nice . 
I'm sure they must , said their mother . 
After each of the twins had been given a large slice of bread and butter and jam , they showed the latest thing they had learned at school . 
Flossie did manage to cut out a house , that had a chimney on it , and a door , besides two windows . 
Freddie took several little narrow strips of paper , and pasting the ends together , made a lot of rings . 
Each ring before being pasted , was slipped into another , and soon he had A paper chain . 
And the handle was a narrow slip of paper pasted over the top of the lantern . 
Very fine Indeed , said Mamma BobbSey . 
Run out now to play . 
If you stay in the house too much you will soon lose all the lovely tan you got in the country , and at the seashore . 
Children , said the principal to the Bobbseys and all the others in school the next day , I have a little treat for you . 
Tomorrow will be a holiday , and , as the weather is very warm , we will close the school at noon , and go off in the woods for a little picnic . 
But I expect you all to have perfect marks from now until Friday , Mr. Tetlow went on . 
You may bring your lunches to school with you Friday morning , if your parents will let you , and we will leave here at noon , and go to Ward's woods . 
It was rather hard work to study after such good news , but , somehow , the pupils managed it . 
Finally Friday came , and nearly every boy and girl came to school with a basket or bundle holding his or her lunch . 
Mrs. Bobbsey put up two baskets for her children , Nan taking one and Bert the other . 
Oh , we'll have a lovely time ! cried Freddie , dancing about on his little fat legs . 
Twelve o'clock came , and with each teacher at the head of her class , and Mr. Tetlow marching in front of all , the whole school started off for the woods . 
CHAPTER X A SCARE THE way to the woods where the little school outing was to be held ran close to the road on which the Bobbsey house stood . 
Yes , and maybe she'll come with us , suggested Flossie . 
Wouldn't that be nice ? Pooh ! exclaimed Bert . 
Mamma's too busy to come to a picnic today . 
Yes , added Nan , the minister and his wife are coming , and mamma's cooking a lot of things . 
Why , does a minister eat more than other folks ? asked Freddie . 
If they does , I'm going to be a minister when I grow up . 
I thought you were going to be a fireman , said Bert . 
Well , I can be a fireman week days and a minister on Sundays , said the little fellow , thus solving the problem . 
Folks always give their best to the minister . 
Then I'm surely going to be one , too , declared Flossie . 
I like good things to eat . 
I hope our minister isn't very hungry , 'cause then there'll be some left for us when we come home from this picnic . 
Why , Flossie ! cried Nan . 
We have a lovely lunch with us plenty , I'm sure . 
Well , I'm awful hungry , Nan , said the little girl . 
Besides , Sammie Jones , and his sister Julia , haven't any lunch at all . 
I saw them , and they looked terrible hungry . 
I'll look after Sammie and Julia when we get to the grove . 
In spite of what Nan and Bert had said about Mrs. Bobbsey being very busy , Flossie and Freddie looked anxiously in the direction of their house as they walked along . 
But no sight of their mother greeted them . 
Here , Snap ! Snap ! called Freddie . 
Come on , old fellow ! and the dog leaped all about him . 
Let's take him to the picnic with us , suggested Flossie . 
We can have lots of fun . 
And he can eat the scraps , said Nan . 
Shall we , Bert ? I don't care . 
But maybe Mr. Tetlow wouldn't like it . 
You ask him , Bert , pleaded Flossie . 
Tell him Snap will do tricks to amuse us . 
Bert goodnaturedly started ahead to speak to the principal , who was talking with some of the teachers , planning games for the little folk . 
Flossie and Freddie were patting their pet , when Danny Rugg , and one of his friends came along . 
That dog can't come to our picnic ! said Danny , with a scowl . 
He might bite some of us . 
Snap never bites ! cried Freddie . 
Of course not , said Flossie . 
Well , he can't come to this picnic ! spoke Danny , angrily . 
Go on home ! he cried , sharply , stooping to pick up a stone . 
Snap growled and showed his teeth . 
I told you he'd bite . 
He will not , Danny Rugg ! exclaimed Nan , who had gone up front for a minute to speak to some of the older girls . 
He only growled because you acted mean to him . 
Now you leave him alone , or I'll tell Mr. Tetlow on you . 
Pooh ! Think I care ? I say no dog can come to our picnic . 
Go on home ! and with raised hand Danny approached Snap . 
Again the dog growled angrily . 
He was not used to being treated in this way . 
Look out , Danny Rugg , said Nan , severely , or he may jump on you , and knock you down . 
He wouldn't bite you , though , mean as you are , unless I told him to do so . 
I'm not afraid of you ! cried Danny , more angry than before . 
I'll get a stick and then we'll see what will happen , and he looked about for one . 
Don't let Danny beat Snap ! pleaded Flossie , tears coming into her eyes . 
I won't , said Nan , looking about anxiously for Bert . 
She saw him coming back , and felt better . 
I'll make that dog go home now ! cried Danny . 
I'm not going to get bitten , and have hyperfobia , or whatever you call it . 
I'll tell Mr. Tetlow if you don't make him go home . 
Oh , don't be so smart ! exclaimed Bert , stepping out from behind a group of girls . 
I've told Mr. Tetlow myself that Snap is following us , and he said to let him come along . 
So you needn't take the trouble , Danny Rugg . 
And if you try to hit our dog I'll have something more to say , and Bert stepped boldly forth . 
Huh ! I'm not afraid of you , sneered Danny , but he let the club drop , and walked off with his own particular chums . 
Did Mr. Tetlow say Snap could come ? asked Freddie , anxiously . 
He said he'd be good to drive away the cows if they bothered us , answered Bert , with a smile . 
After this little trouble , the Bobbseys and their friends went on toward the grove in the woods where the picnic was to be held . 
There was laughing and shouting , and much fun on the way , in which Snap shared . 
Boys and girls would run to one side or the other of the path to gather late flowers . 
Some would pick up odd stones , or pine cones , and others would find curious little creeping or crawling things which they called their friends to see . 
We'll make Snap do some tricks when we get to the grove , said Flossie . 
Yes , we'll have a little circus , added her brother . 
Can he stand on his head ? one girl wanted to know . 
Well , he can turn a somersault , and he's on his head for a second while he's doing that , explained Freddie , proudly . 
Can he roll over and over ? a boy wanted to know . 
We had a dog , once , that could . 
Snap can , too , said Flossie . 
Roll over , Snap ! she ordered , and the dog , with a bark , did so . 
The children laughed and some clapped their hands . 
They thought Snap was about the best dog they had ever seen . 
No accidents happened on the way to the grove , except that one little boy tried to cross a brook on some stones , instead of the plank which the others used . 
He slipped in and got his feet wet , but as the day was warm no one worried much . 
Finally the grove was reached . 
It was in a wooded valley , with hills on either side , and a cold , clear spring of water at one end , where everyone could get a drink . 
And that always seems to be what is most wanted at a picnic a drink of water . 
And now , he said , have the best fun you can . 
Play anything you wish school games if you like but don't get too warm or excited . 
And don't go too far away . 
You may eat your luncheon when you like . 
Then let's eat ours now , suggested Flosssie . 
So am I , said Freddie . 
So Nan and Bert decided that the little ones might at least have a sandwich and a piece of cake . 
Nor did they forget the two little Jones children , who had no lunch . 
The Bobbseys were well provided and soon Sammie and Julia were smiling and happy as they sat beneath a tree , eating . 
Then came all sorts of games , from tag and jumping rope , to blindman's bluff and hide and seek . 
Snap was made to do a number of tricks , much to the amusement of the teachers and children . 
Bert heard one of the boys ask another if he had any matches . 
I know what they're going to do , whispered Bert to Nan . 
I saw Danny have a pack . 
Nan was much shocked , but she did not see anything . 
She was glad Bert did not smoke . 
What's the matter ? What is it ? asked Nan , catching her brother just in time . 
Up there ! he gasped . 
It's up there ! A great big black one ! A big black what bug ? asked Nan , ready to laugh . 
No ! a big black snake ! I almost stepped on it . 
A snake ! Oh , dear ! screamed the girls . 
Call Mr. Tetlow ! said Flossie . 
He's got a book about snakes , and he'll know what to do . 
Come on ! cried Nellie Parks . 
I'm going to run ! So am I ! added Grace Lavine . 
Oh , it may chase us ! In fright the children turned , Freddie looking back at the spot where he thought he had seen the snake . 
CHAPTER XI DANNY'S TRICK NAN BOBBSEY stood for a moment , she hardly knew why . 
Perhaps she wanted to see the big snake of which Freddie spoke . 
It certainly was not because she liked reptiles . 
Then she thought she saw something long and black wiggling toward her , and , with a little exclamation of fright , she , too , turned to follow the others . 
But , as she did so , she saw their dog Snap come running up the hill , barking and wagging his tail . 
He seemed to have lost the children for a moment and to be telling them how glad he was that he had found them again . 
Straight up the hill , toward where Freddie had said the snake was , rushed Snap . 
Here ! Come back ! Don't go there ! cried Nan . 
No , don't let him he may be bitten ! added Flossie . 
Come here , Snap ! But Snap evidently did not want to mind . 
On up the hill he rushed , pausing now and then to dig in the earth . 
Nearer and nearer he came to where the little Bobbsey boy had said the snake was hiding in the grass and bushes . 
Oh , Snap ! Snap ! cried Freddie . 
Don't go there ! But Snap kept on , and Freddie , afraid lest his pet dog be bitten , caught up a stone and threw it at the place . 
With a loud bark he rushed on , and the children , turning to look , saw something long and black , and seemingly wiggling , come toward them . 
Oh , the snake ! The snake ! cried Nan . 
Run ! Run ! shouted Grace . 
Come on ! exclaimed Nellie Parks , in loud tones . 
Freddie ! Freddie ! called Flossie , afraid lest her little brother be bitten . 
Snap rushed at the black thing so fiercely that he turned a somersault down the hill , and rolled over and over . 
But he did not mind this , and in an instant was up again . 
Once more he rushed at the black object , but the children did not watch to see what happened , for they were running away as fast as they could . 
Then Freddie , anxious as to what would become of Snap if he fought a snake , looked back . 
He saw a strange sight . 
The dog had in his mouth the long , black thing , and was running with it toward the Bobbseys and their friends . 
Oh , Nan ! Nan ! Look ! Look ! cried Freddie . 
Snap has the snake ! He's bringing it to us ! Oh , he mustn't do that ! shouted Nan . 
It may bite him or us . 
Run ! Run faster ! shrieked Grace . 
But even though it was down hill the children could not run as fast as Snap , and he soon caught up to them . 
Running on a little way ahead he dropped the black thing . 
But instead of wiggling or trying to bite , it was I very still . 
It it's dead , said Nan . 
Why why ! he exclaimed . 
Snap stood over it , wagging his tail as proudly as though he had captured a real snake . 
As Freddie had said , it was only a tree root . 
But it did look a lot like a snake in the grass , said the little fellow . 
It must have , agreed Nan . 
It looked like one even when Snap had it . 
But I'm glad it wasn't . 
So am I , spoke Grace , and Nellie made like remark . 
Snap frisked about , barking as though to ask praise for what he had done . 
He is a good dog , observed Freddie , hearing which the animal almost wagged his tail off . 
And if it had been a real snake he'd have gotten it wouldn't you ? went on the little boy . 
If barks meant anything , Snap said , with all his heart , that he certainly would that not even a dozen snakes could frighten a big dog like him . 
The children soon got over the little scare , and went back up the hill again to gather more flowers . 
Snap went with them this time , running about here and there . 
If there are any real snakes , said Freddie , he'll scare them away . 
But I guess there aren't any . 
I hope not , said Nan , but she and the others kept a sharp lookout . 
However , there was no further fright for them , and soon , with their hands filled with blossoms the Bobbseys and the others went back to the main party . 
Some of the teachers were arranging games with their pupils , and Nan , Flossie and Freddie joined in , having a good time . 
Then , when it was almost time to start for home , Mr. Tetlow blew loudly on a whistle he carried to call in the stragglers . 
Where's Bert ? asked Flossie , looking about for her older brother . 
I guess he hasn't come back from fishing yet , said Nan . 
Come , Flossie and Freddie , I have a little bit of lunch left , and you might as well eat it , so you won't be hungry on the way home . 
The littler Bobbsey twins were glad enough to do this . 
Then they had to have a drink , and Nan went with them to the spring , carrying a glass tumbler she had brought . 
This isn't like our nice silver cup that the fat lady took in the train , said Freddie , as he passed the glass of water very carefully to Flossie . 
No , she said , after she had taken her drink . 
But I think he will . 
It isn't like Snoop , our cat . 
We don't know where he is , but we're pretty sure the fat lady has the cup . 
Poor Snoop ! cried Freddie , as he thought of the fine black cat . 
Maybe some of the railroad men have him . 
When they got back to where the teachers and principal were , Bert and the boys who bad gone fishing had returned . 
They had one or two small fish . 
I'm going to have mamma cook them for my supper , said Bert , proudly holding up those he had caught . 
They're too small there won't be anything left of them after they're cleaned , said Nan , who was quite a little housekeeper . 
Oh , yes , there will , declared her brother . 
I'm going fishing again tomorrow and , catch more . 
Mr. Tetlow was going about among the teachers , asking if all their pupils were on hand , ready for the march back . 
Danny Rugg and some of his close friends were missing . 
They ought not to have gone off so far , said Mr. Tetlow , as he blew several times on the whistle . 
Soon Danny and the other boy , were seen coming from a distant part of the grove . 
One of the boys , Harry White , looked very pale , and not at all well . 
What is the matter ? asked Mr. Tetlow , and he looked curiously at Danny and the others , and sniffed the air as though he smelled something . 
I I guess I ate too many apples , said Harry , in a faint voice . 
We found an orchard , and I told you not to go into orchards , and take fruit , said Mr. Tetlow , severely . 
The man said we could , remarked Danny . 
Then you should not have eaten so many , said Mr. Tetlow . 
But they did not answer . 
The march home was not as joyful as the one to the grove had been , for most of the children were tired . 
But they all had had a fine time , and there were many requests of the teachers to have another picnic the next week . 
Oh , we can't have them every week , my dears , said Miss Franklin , who had charge of Flossie , Freddie and some others in the kindergarten class . 
Besides , it will soon be too cool to go out in the woods . 
In a little while we will have ice and snow , and Thanksgiving and Christmas . 
That will be better than picnics , said Freddie . 
I'm going to have a new sled . 
I'm going to get a new doll , that can walk , declared Flossie , and then she and the others talked about the coming holidays . 
And I can guess what made him sick too , said Bert to Nan , privately . 
How do you know ? Because when I and some of the other fellows were fishing we saw Danny and his crowd smoking in the woods . 
They offered us some , but we wouldn't take any . 
Harry said he was sick then , but Danny only laughed at him . 
That Danny Rugg is a bad boy , said Nan , severely . 
But she was soon to see how much meaner Danny could be . 
Whoever is caught playing with the faucets in the yard after this will be severely punished , he said . 
As it happened , Flossie and Freddie were not at school that day , Freddie having a slight sore throat . 
His mother kept him home , and Flossie would not go without him . 
So they did not hear the warning , and Bert and Nan did not think to tell the smaller children of it . 
Two days later Freddie was well enough to go back to class , and Flossie accompanied him . 
It was at the morning recess when , as Freddie went to get a drink at one of the new faucets , Danny saw him . 
A gleam of mischief came into the eyes of the school bully . 
Want to see the water squirt , Freddie ? asked Danny . 
That's a new kind of faucet . 
Does it ? asked Freddie , innocently . 
How do you make it ? He had no idea it was forbidden fun . 
Just put your thumb over the hole , and turn the water on , directed Danny . 
You , too , Flossie . 
Danny looked all around , thinking he was unobserved as he gave this bad advice . 
Naturally , Freddie and Flossie , being so young , suspected nothing . 
They covered the opening of the faucet with their thumbs , and turned on the water . 
It spurted in a fine spray , and they laughed in glee . 
That they wet each other did not matter . 
Danny , seeing the success of his trick , walked off as he saw Mr. Tetlow coming . 
The Bobbsey twins were so intent on spurting the water that they did not observe the principal until he was close to them . 
You will be punished for this ! With tears in their eyes the little twins obeyed . 
They could not understand it . 
They had cried a little , but had stopped now . 
I am very sorry to have to punish you two twins , said the principal , but I had given strict orders that no one was to play with that water . 
Why did you do it ? Because , answered Flossie . 
Danny Rugg told us to , added Freddie . 
He said it was a new kind of faucet . 
Now be careful , warned Mr. Tetlow . 
Often before he had heard pupils say that someone else told them to break certain rules . 
Are you sure about this ? he asked . 
Yes ! sir , said Freddie , eagerly . 
Danny told us to do it . 
But didn't you know it was forbidden ? . 
No , sir , answered Flossie . 
Why , I spoke of it in all the rooms . 
We wasn't here yesterday or the day before , said Flossie . 
Mr. Tetlow began to understand . 
I will look this up , he said , and if find He was interrupted by a boy from one of the higher classes coming in with a note from his teacher . 
She wanted a new box of chalk . 
Flossie and Freddie say he told them to spray water with one of the new faucets . 
Yes , sir , he did ! exclaimed George . 
I heard him , but I didn't think they would do it . 
At this unexpected information Mr. Tetlow was much surprised . 
If that is the case , Danny is the one to be punished , he said . 
I am sorry , Flossie and Freddie , that I suspected you . 
But , after this , no matter whether anyone tells you or not , don't spray the water . 
No , sir , we won't ! exclaimed the Bobbsey twins , now happy again . 
I wish I had heard Danny telling you that just to get you in trouble , said Bert , when he was told of what had happened . 
Oh , don't get into any more fights , begged Nan . 
Oh , I'm not afraid of you , sneered Danny . 
Lessons and fun made up many school days for the Bobbsey twins . 
And , as the Fall went on , lessons grew a little harder . 
Even Freddie and Flossie , young as they were , had little tasks to do that kept them busy . 
But they liked their school and the teacher , and many were the queer stories they brought home of the happenings in the classroom . 
It was now toward the end of October , and the weather was getting cooler , though during the day it was still very warm at times . 
The twins , as did their friends , looked forward to the coming of Winter and the Christmas holidays . 
But before this there was another event down on the program . 
This was to be a party for Flossie and Freddie , the occasion being their joint birthdays . 
And we're going to have candy ! cried Freddie , when the arrangements were talked over . 
And ice cream added Flossie a whole freezer full aren't we , mamma ? Well , I guess a small freezer full won't be any too much , said Mrs. Bobbsey , smiling . 
But I hope none of you eat enough to make yourselves ill . 
We won't , promised Freddie and Flossie . 
Invitations were sent out , on little sheets of note paper , adorned with flowers , and in cute little envelopes . 
Flossie and Freddie took them to the postoffice themselves . 
My ! what a lot of mail ! exclaimed the clerk at the stamp window , as he saw the children dropping the invitations into the slot . 
Uncle Sam will have to get some extra men to carry that around , I guess . 
What's it all about ? We're going to have a party , said Flossie , proudly . 
Just then Danny Rugg came into the post office . 
A party eh ? he sneered . 
I'm coming to it , I am and I'm going to have two plates of ice cream . 
You are not ! cried Freddie . 
My mamma wouldn't let a boy like you come to our party . 
'Specially not after what you did telling us to play in the water , added Freddie . 
You can't come ! Yes , I can , insisted Danny , just to tease the children . 
For a moment Flossie and Freddie almost believed him , he seemed so much in earnest about it . 
You can't come you haven't any invitation , said Flossie , suddenly . 
I'll take one of those you put in the box , went on the mean boy . 
He won't dare will he ? and Freddie appealed to the mail clerk . 
I should say not ! said the man at the stamp window . 
If he does Uncle Sam will be after him . 
Well , I'm coming to that party all the same ! insisted Danny , with a grin on his freckled face . 
Flossie and Freddie were so worried about him that they told their mother , but she assured them that Danny would not come to spoil their fun . 
Flossie and Freddie had been dressed in their prettiest clothes , and Nan and Bert also attired for the affair . 
The ice cream had come from the store , all packed in ice and salt , and Dinah had set it out on the back stoop , where it would be cooler . 
Dinah was very busy that day . 
She hurried about here and there , helping Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Sam , her husband , also had plenty to do . 
I 'clar t' gracious goodness ! Dinah exclaimed , I suah will get thin ef dish yeah keeps up ! I ain't set down a minute dis blessed day . 
My feet'll drop off soon I 'specs . 
Will they , really , Dinah ? asked Freddie . 
And can we watch 'em fall ? Bress yo' hearts , honeys ! exclaimed the colored cook , I didn't mean it jest dat way . 
But suffin's suah gwine t' happen I feels it in mah bones ! And something was to happen , though not exactly what Dinah expected . 
Finally all was in readiness for the guests . 
The good things to eat were in the kitchen , all but the ice cream , which , as I have said , was out on the back porch . 
Flossie and Freddie had gone to the front door nearly a dozen times to see if any of the guests were in sight . 
Snap , as a special favor , had been allowed to stay in the house that afternoon , for the twins were going to make him do tricks for their friends . 
There came a ring at the door bell . 
Here they come ! Here they come ! cried Flossie . 
Let me answer , too , cried Freddie , and they both hurried through the front hall to greet the first guest at their party . 
CHAPTER XIII AN UNPLEASANT SURPRISE QUICKLY , after the first guests had arrived came the others . 
The boys seemed to all crowd together in one part of the room , and the girls in another . 
Flossie and Freddie , Nan and Bert , were so busy answering the door that they did not notice this at first . 
But Aunt Sarah , their mother's sister , who had come over to help Mrs. Bobbsey , looking in the parlor and library , saw what the trouble was . 
My ! she cried , with a goodnatured laugh , as she noticed how stiff the children were . 
You're not that way at school , I don't believe . 
Pretend this is recess at school , and make as much noise as you like . 
For a moment the boys and girls did not know what to think of this invitation . 
Bert had given it to him . 
Then how the children laughed and clapped their hands ! And Snap barked so loudly for he liked applause that there was noise enough for even jolly Aunt Sarah . 
After that there was no trouble . 
The boys and girls talked together and soon they were playing games , and having the best kind of fun . 
For some of the games simple prizes had been offered and it was quite exciting toward the end to see who would win . 
Flossie and Freddie thought they had never had such a good time in all their lives . 
Nan and Bert were enjoying themselves , too , with their friends , who were slightly older than those who had been asked for the younger Bobbsey twins . 
Going to Jerusalem , was one game that created lots of enjoyment . 
A number of chairs were placed in the centre of the room , and the boys and girls marched around them while Mrs. Bobbsey played the piano . 
Then this one had to stay out of the game . 
Then a chair would be taken away , so as always to have one less than the number of players , and the game went on . 
Mrs. Bobbsey kept playing quite some time , as the two went around and around that one chair . 
Everyone was laughing , wondering who would get a seat and so win the game , when , all at once , Mrs. Bobbsey stopped the music . 
She had her back turned so it would be perfectly fair . 
Grace and John made a rush for the one chair , but Grace got to it first , and so she won . 
Well , I'm glad you did , anyhow , said John , politely . 
Other games were peanut races and potato scrambles . 
Sometimes a boy would slip , he was in such a hurry , or a girl would drop her peanuts , and this made fun and confusion . 
Nan won this race easily . 
In the potato scramble several rows of potatoes were made across the room . 
In this Charley Mason was successful , and won the prize a pretty little pin for his tie . 
The afternoon wore on , and , almost before the children realized it the hour for supper had arrived . 
They were not sorry , either , for they all had good appetites . 
Come into the dining room , children , invited Mrs. Bobbsey . 
The long table was set with dishes and pretty glasses . 
There were flowers in the centre , and at each end , and also blooms in vases about the room . 
Then , from the centre chandelier to the four corners of the table , were strings of green smilax in which had been entwined carnations of various colors . 
The lights were softly glowing on the pretty scene , and there were prettily shaded candles to add to the effect . 
But what caught the eyes of all the children more than anything else were two large cakes one at either end of the table . 
On each cake burned five candles , and on one cake was the name Flossie , while the other was marked Freddie . 
The names were in pink icing on top of the white frosting that covered the birthday cakes . 
Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! could be heard all about the room . 
Dat's what I did , honey ! Dat's what I did ! she exclaimed . 
If anybody's got a toofache he'd better not eat any ob dem cakes , 'cause dey suah am sweet . 
How the children laughed at that ! All ready , now , children , sit down , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Your names are at your plates . 
There was a little confusion getting them all seated , as those on one side of the table found that their name cards were on the other side . 
But Flossie and Freddie , and Nan and Bert , helped the guests to find their proper places and soon everyone was in his or her chair . 
Can't Snap sit with us , too ? asked Freddie , looking about for his pet , who had done all his tricks well that evening . 
No , dear , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Snap is a good dog , but we don't want him in the dining room when we are eating . 
It gives him bad habits . 
Then can't I send him out some cakes ? asked Flossie , for Snap had almost as large a sweet tooth as the children themselves . 
Yes , as it is your birthday , I suppose you can give him some of your good things , said Mamma Bobbsey . 
Here , Dinah ! called Freddie to the cook , as he piled a plate full of cakes . 
Please give these to Snap . 
Land sakes goodness me alive ! cried Dinah . 
Feedin' a dog jest laik a human at a party . 
I can't bring mahself to it , nohow . 
I'll take 'em out to him , said her husband . 
Don't eat too much , advised Freddie to some of the friends who sat near him . 
We've got a lot of ice cream coming . 
That's so I almost forgot , spoke Jimmie Black . 
A little later Mrs. Bobbsey said to Dinah I think you may bring in the cream now , and I will help you serve it . 
Oh , goodie ! cried Freddie . 
Ice cream's coming ! and he waved his spoon above his head . 
Freddie Freddie ! said his mother , in gentle reproof . 
Dinah went out on the back stoop , looked around and came running back to the dining room , where Mrs. Bobbsey was . 
Dinah's eyes were big with wonder and surprise . 
Mrs. Bobbsey ! Mrs. Bobbsey ! she cried . 
Suffin's done gone an' happened ! What is it ? asked Mamma Bobbsey , quickly . 
Then Flossie burst out with Are you sure , Dinah ? Maybe it fell off the porch . 
Deed an' it didn't , honey gal . 
I done looked eberywhar fo' dat freezer , an' it's jest gone complete . 
Maybe Snap took it , suggested Freddie , as a last hope . 
Once he took my book and hid it . 
Snap , did you take the ice cream ? Snap barked and wagged his tail , looking rather pained at being asked such a question . 
No , indeedy , Snap couldn't take off a big freezer like dat , declared Dinah . 
Then who could it have been ? asked Nan . 
Everyone had stopped eating while this talk went on . 
Who could have taken our ice cream ? Dat's what I don't know , honey , answered the colored cook . 
Dat's why I comed in heah to tell yo' mamma . 
I 'spects , Mrs. Bobbsey , dat we'd better phonograph fo' de police . 
Phonograph I guess you mean telephone don't you , Dinah ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey , with a smile . 
Yes'm , dat's what I done mean . 
Or else maybe we kin send mah man Sam down to de station house fo' 'em . 
No , I had better telephone , in case it is necessary . 
But perhaps I had better take a look out there . 
Perhaps the man from the store may have set the cream off to one side . 
No'm , he didn't do dat . 
I took p'ticlar notice where he set it . 
Dere's a wet ringmark on de porch where de freezer was , 'count of de salty water leakin' out . 
Well , I'm going to have a look , anyhow , said Bert . 
Maybe , after all , that Danny Rugg is up to some of his tricks . 
I'm with you , Bert ! cried Charley . 
But we ought to have some sort of a light . 
I'll get my little pocket electric light , said Bert . 
He had one , and it gave a good light . 
He went to his room for it . 
Flossie and Freddie did not know what to do . 
That their lovely party should be spoiled by the missing ice cream seemed too bad to be true . 
Mamma , if we can't find this ice cream , can't we buy more ? Flossie wanted to know . 
The girls just want some so bad ! And the boys , too , added Freddie . 
Oh , I guess we'll manage to get some fo you , if we can't find this , answered Mrs. Bobbsey . 
We may have to wait a little while for it , though . 
Well , we'll have a look , said Bert , as he came down with his little electric lamp . 
But it was not to be found . 
Well , here's where it stood , said Bert , as he looked at the round , wet mark on the porch where the freezer had set . 
See , the water has dripped down on each step ! This is the way they carried off our ice cream . 
The others could see a trail of water drops leading from the stoop down the steps and along the stone walk at the side of the Bobbsey house . 
Now we can follow and see just where they took our cream ! cried Bert . 
This is the way Indians used to trail the white settlers . 
Let me come ! cried Freddie , hearing this . 
I want to help hunt whoever took our ice cream . 
No , you'd better stay back there , said Bert . 
Why ? his little brother wanted to know . 
Because it might be tramps who have it , and there'd be trouble , said Bert . 
Wait until I get my cap pistol ! cried Freddie . 
I can scare a tramp with that . 
No , you go back there , and stay in the house , went on Bert . 
If we find tramps have it , we'll get a policeman . 
It might be that a tramp did steal up on the steps , and lift off the freezer , said Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Bert , be careful , she called to her son , who set off in the darkness with his chums , flashing his electric light from time to time . 
I'll look out ! he called back . 
For some distance it was easy to see which way the ice cream freezer had been carried , for there were the marks of the dripping water . 
Then these stopped about the middle of the sidewalk , and seemed to go over in the grass . 
We can't see 'em now , spoke Charley . 
Well , we'll keep on this way in a straight line , suggested Bert . 
Maybe they took the freezer down back of our berry bushes to eat the cream . 
I hope they left some , said John Anderson , in a mournful sort of voice . 
Hurrying on after Bert , the boys looked eagerly about in the darkness for a sign of the missing ice cream . 
There were not many chances of them finding it , for though Bert's electric torch gave a brilliant light for a short distance , it was not very large . 
What's over there ? asked Charley , pausing and pointing to a patch of blackness . 
An old barn , that we used to use before we had our new one built , answered Bert . 
Why ? Well , maybe they took the ice cream in there to eat it , went on Charley . 
Is it open ? Yes , it's never locked . 
Say , we'll take a look in there , anyhow ! exclaimed Bert . 
Come on , fellows ! He led the way , the others following . 
As they approached the big , deserted barn Frank Black exclaimed in a whisper I see a light ! So do I ! added Will Evans . 
And it's moving around , spoke Charley Mason . 
It's them , all right , decided Bert . 
The tramps who took our ice cream are in there , all right ! What makes you think they are tramps ? asked Will . 
Well , I'm not sure , of course , admitted Bert . 
But we can soon tell . 
Come on ! Are you are you going up there ? sked Charley . 
Sure ! Why not ? I think we can scare em away . 
Some of them were older than Bert , and when they saw that he was determined to go on , they made up their minds that they would not let him go alone . 
All right go ahead we're with you , said Charley . 
Bert and the others advanced . 
As they walked on they could see the light in the barn more plainly . 
And , as they stopped for a moment they could hear voices talking in low tones . 
More than one , whispered Charley . 
Yes , three or four , said Bert . 
They walked ahead again , when suddenly Charley stepped on a stick that broke with a loud snap . 
In an instant the light in the barn went out , and then could be heard the footsteps of several persons running away . 
There they are ! shouted Bert , dashing forward . 
Come on , fellows ! We'll get 'em now ! That's right ! cried Charley . 
But Bert thought that they could scare the thieves away , for the latter could not tell , in the darkness , how many , nor who were after them . 
Flashing his light , Bert dashed ahead , followed by the others . 
Into the big barn they went , and , just as they entered the main part , they had a glimpse of someone running out of a side door . 
There they go ! cried Charley . 
We can catch 'em ! No , let 'em go , advised Bert . 
Let's see if there's any left . 
If there is we'll take it back to the party . 
We might get into trouble if we went after those fellows . 
By the gleam of the electric light they could all see the freezer of cream in the middle of the barn floor , near some upturned boxes . 
A hasty look showed that only a little had been taken out . 
There's plenty left ! said Bert . 
We surprised 'em just in time . 
Now let's get beck to the house . 
It was rather a triumphant procession that went back to the home of the Bobbsey twins , carrying the recovered ice cream freezer . 
And such a shout of delight from Flossie , Freddie and the others as greeted the boys ! Is there any left ? asked Freddie . 
And did you catch the bad tramps ? Flossie wanted to know . 
They got away , her brother said . 
But never mind , we scared them before they had a chance to eat much . 
As Dinah and Mrs. Bobbsey were dishing out the cream , the colored cook uttered a cry . 
Look out ! she exclaimed . 
Dere's suffin black in dere , Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Maybe it's a stone dem careless tramps put in . 
Wait 'till I gits it out . 
With a longhandled spoon Dinah fished for the black thing , and got it . 
Why , it's a button a coat button ! he exclaimed . 
A button ? How in the world could that get in there ? asked his mother . 
Unless you boys dropped it in when you were carrying the cream . 
Bert and the other boys quickly looked at their coats . 
There were no buttons missing . 
An' it suah wasn't in when de cream come heah , said Dinah . 
I knows , fo I took off de kiver an' looked in t' see how hard it were froze . 
Dat button got in since ! Yes , and I think I know how , too ! exclaimed Bert . 
It was dropped in by whoever took the freezer . 
They must have been eating the cream right out of the can , and maybe they dropped the button in . 
What for ? asked Nan , wonderingly . 
I may be able to find out by it , who took the freezer , went on Bert . 
I'm going to look at the coats of all the fellows in school next week , and if I find one with the button like this missing , I'll know what to think . 
Be careful not to accuse anyone wrongly , cautioned his mother . 
Bert put the button carefully away , and the party guests were soon eating their ice cream , and discussing the disappearance of the freezer and the finding of it by the boys . 
Then with the playing of more games , and the singing of songs , the affair came to a close , and goodnights were said . 
We've had a lovely time ! said the boys and girls to Flossie and Freddie , as they left . 
Glad you did come again , invited the small Bobbsey twins . 
Even Snap seemed to have enjoyed himself . 
When Bert went to bed that night he laid the button found in the ice cream where he would be sure to see it in the morning . 
I'm going to find out whose coat that came off of , he said to himself . 
The little Bobbsey twins slept late the next morning , and so did Nan , but Bert was up early . 
I'm going over to the barn , and see if I can tell by looking around it , how many were at our freezer , he said . 
But there was nothing there to help him in his search . 
Some old boxes , placed in a sort of circle , showed where the ones who had taken the ice cream , had rested to eat it . 
They must have had spoons with them , said Bert to himself , as he looked about , That shows they came all prepared to take our ice cream . 
So they must have known it was going to be here . 
Well , I'll see whose coat has a button missing . 
It took Bert some days to look carefully at the coats of the various boys in school , who might have been guilty of taking the cream . 
His heart beat fast as he noticed that from the middle of Danny's coat a button was gone . 
And a glance at the others showed Bert that they were just like the one found in the ice cream freezer . 
I see you've lost a button , Danny , said Bert , slowly . 
Hey ? exclaimed the bully , with a start . 
I see you've lost a button , repeated Bert . 
Yes , I guess it dropped off . 
Maybe it's home somewhere , said Danny . 
No , it isn't it's here ! exclaimed Bert , suddenly holding the button out to him . 
CHAPTER XV THANKSGIVING FOR a moment Danny Rugg just stared at Bert . 
Then the bully swallowed a sort of lump that came in his throat , and said That isn't my button . 
Isn't it ? asked Bert , politely . 
I guess it's your button , all right , Danny . 
Danny did not say anything . 
He looked from the button to Bert , and then at the space on his coat where a button should have been , but where one was missing . 
Well well , he stammered . 
Maybe it is off my coat , but but how did you get it , Bert Bobbsey ? I found it , was the answer . 
Don't you want it back ? He held it out to Danny , who took it slowly . 
I s'pose you picked it up around the school yard , where I lost it , playing tag with the fellows . 
No , you didn't lose it there , went on Bert , still smiling . 
You have another guess coming , Danny . 
Pooh ! I don't care where you found it , and Danny was about to turn away . 
Wait a minute , said Bert . 
He was confused and his face was white and red by turns , for he realized that Bert had good proof of what he said . 
Better go slow , advised Bert , calmly . 
I don't intend to go around telling what you did . 
I just want to let you know that I am sure you took our ice cream . 
You're only trying to fool me ! he exclaimed . 
That button wasn't in it at all ! Wasn't it ? asked Bert , quietly . 
Well , you just ask Charley Mason , or any of the fellows who were at the party , what we found in the freezer , and see what they say . 
Danny had nothing to reply to this . 
Thrusting the button in his pocket he walked off . 
Bert was sure he had found the boy who had taken the ice cream . 
He and several boys did this , carrying it to the old barn . 
The coat Danny wore that night he did not put on again for some time , but when he did Bert saw the missing button . 
Danny knew that he had been found out , and for a time he had little to say . 
But Bert was boy enough not to be able to keep altogether quiet over his discovery . 
From time to time he would ask Danny Lost any more buttons , lately ? You let me alone ! Danny would reply , surlily . 
Of course this made talk , the boys wanting to know what it meant , and at last the story came out . 
This made Danny so angry that he picked several quarrels with Bert . 
On his part Bert tried to avoid them , but at last he could stand it no longer , and he and Danny came to blows again , Danny striking first . 
Bert had been brought up with the idea that fighting , unless it could absolutely be avoided , was not gentlemanly , but in this case he could not get out of it . 
Danny struck Bert several times , and Bert hit back , once hitting Danny in the eye . 
Bert's lip was cut , and when the fight was over both boys did not look very nice . 
But everyone said Bert had the best of it . 
Oh , Bert ! exclaimed his mother , when he came home after the trouble with Danny . 
You've been fighting ! Yes , mother , I have , he admitted . 
I'm sorry , but I couldn't help it . 
Danny Rugg hit me first . 
I couldn't run away , could I ? It was a hard question for a mother to answer . 
No mother likes to think her son a coward , and that was what the boys would have called Bert had he not stood up to Danny . 
I I just had to ! continued Bert . 
And I beat him , anyhow , mother . 
Mrs. Bobbsey cried a little , and then she made the best of it , and bathed Bert's cut lip and bruised forehead . 
She told his father about it , too , and Mr. Bobbsey , after hearing the account , asked Who won ? Well , Bert says he did ? Um . 
Well , I've no doubt but what he did . 
Oh , Richard ! exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey , in dismay . 
Well , boys will er have their little troubles , said her husband . 
I'm sorry Bert had to fight , but I'm glad he wasn't a coward . 
But he mustn't fight any more . 
Then Mr. Bobbsey sat down to read the evening paper . 
The weather was getting cooler . 
It was the end of the Fall term of school , and there were to be examinations to see who would pass into the next higher classes for the Winter season . 
And both the twins were very anxious for this . 
Bert and Nan had somewhat harder lessons to do , and they had to answer more difficult questions in the examinations . 
An' I'se gwine t' stuff him wif chestnuts an' oysters , said Dinah . 
I tells you what , chilluns , yo' all am suttinly gwine to hab one grand feed . 
I wish everybody was , said Flossie , a bit wistfully . 
I hope our cat Snoop , wherever he is , has plenty of milk , and some nice turkey bones . 
I guess he will have , said Mamma Bobbsey , gently . 
I hope all the poor children in our school have enough to eat , said Freddie . 
Mr. Tetlow said for us to bring what we could for them . 
And you never told me ! exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Why didn't you ? I would have sent something . 
Neither Bert nor Nan had thought to mention at home that a collection would be taken at the school for the poor families in the town . 
But as soon as Mrs. Bobbsey heard what Freddie said she telephoned to her husband . 
Mr. Bobbsey went to see Mr. Tetiow , and from him learned that there were a number of families who would not have a very happy Thanksgiving . 
But I am getting a little ahead of my story . 
Guess who are coming to spend Thanksgiving with us ! cried Mamma Bobbsey , as she waved the letter in the air . 
Uncle Bobbsey ! guessed Nan . 
Uncle Minturn , said Bert . 
Oh , what a jolly Thanksgiving it will be ! cried the Bobbsey twins . 
TETLOW ASKS QUESTIONS THANKSGIVING was celebrated in the Bobbsey home as it never had been before . 
For I am sure you would all be writing to me to ask where the Bobbseys lived , so that you might go and see them , and perhaps spend Christmas with them . 
Not that they would not be glad to have you , but they have so many friends that their house is sure to be filled over the holidays . 
So I will simply say that there was the grandest time ever , and let it go at that . 
Isn't it lonesome at the seashore now ? asked Nan of Dorothy , as she walked with her cousin about the busy streets of the town . 
Not at all , answered Dorothy . 
The sea is never lonesome for me . 
It always seems to be telling me something , Winter or Summer . 
I love it in the Summer , said Nan , but in the Winter it seems so cold and cruel . 
That is because you do not know it as well as I do , said Dorothy . 
Hal , Harry , and Bert had fine times together . 
There was no skating , and the little flurry of snow there had been was not enough for coasting , but they had other fun . 
Do your ducks miss our duck Downy ? asked Freddie of his cousin Harry . 
Well , I guess they do , was the laughing answer , for Freddie and Flossie had a pet duck which they took about with them almost as faithfully as they did Snoop . 
How is Downy , anyhow ? asked Harry . 
He's fine , answered the little fellow . 
Want to see him ? and he took his cousin out to the barn where Downy had a pen all to himself . 
Snoop's gone , said Freddie , and so is our silver cup , but maybe we'll get that back . 
In a circus ! cried Harry . 
I should think your cat might be in a circus , but not a silver cup . 
We don't know where Snoop is , went on Freddie , 'cause he got away at the time of the circus wreck , and he explained about it . 
But we are almost sure the circus fat lady has our cup . 
The Thanksgiving holidays came to an end at last and , much to the regret of the Bobbseys , their visitors , old and young , had to go back to their homes . 
But you'll come again at Christmas , won't you ? asked Flossie as she said goodbye . 
We'll try , said her Uncle Bobbsey . 
But maybe there won't be room , with Santa Claus and all his reindeers . 
Oh , we'll make room for you , spoke Freddie . 
Santa Claus won't stay long . 
With a merry peal of laughter the visitors went off to the station , waving farewells . 
Then came rather a quiet time at the Bobbsey house , as there always is when visitors go . 
There seems to be a sort of loneliness , when company leaves , no matter how many there are in the family , nor what fun there is . 
But the feeling soon passes . 
Well , we'll soon be at school again , said Bert , a day or so before the opening of the Winter term . 
I wish we'd get some snow . 
Then it would be more fun . 
We could build snow forts and have snowball fights . 
I wish it would snow hard . 
So do I , so we could ride down hill , said Nan . 
I'm going to have skates for Christmas , announced Freddie . 
I hope the lake will be frozen over by then . 
I guess it will be , returned Bert . 
It's getting colder every night . 
The Bobbseys were back at school . 
But they were not children who gave up easily , and soon they were at the head of their class as usual . 
Their teacher , too , was much nicer than they had thought at first . 
They had considered her stern , but it was only her way , and soon wore off . 
As for Freddie and Flossie , they had advanced but little except in reading , and this opened a new world to them . 
We'll soon be reading books , boasted Freddie , on his way home one day . 
And I'm going to read all about firemen , soldiers and Indians . 
Oh , I'm not , said Flossie . 
I'm going to read how to be a nurse , so I can take care of you when you're hurt . 
That will be nice , said Freddie . 
One day , at recess , Bert saw Jim Osborne motioning to him in a secret sort of fashion . 
Come on with us , said Jim , who was a new boy in school . 
Danny Rugg and some of the rest of us are going to have some sport . 
What doing ? asked Bert . 
Smoking cigarettes back of the coal house . 
I've got a whole pack . 
No I don't smoke , said Bert quietly . 
Bah ! You're afraid ! sneered Jim . 
It's only cigars and pipes that do . 
Yes , I admit I am afraid , said Bert . 
I'm afraid of getting sick . 
Besides , I promised my mother I wouldn't smoke until I was twenty one , and I'm not going to tell a story . 
Anyhow , I've got an uncle who smokes , and he says cigarettes are worse than a pipe or cigars , and he ought to know . 
Aw , come on ! urged Jim . 
No , said Bert firmly , and he would not go . 
Jim went off with Danny and some of the other boys , and they were laughing among themselves . 
Bert felt that they were laughing at him , but he did not mind . 
Perhaps the furnace does not work properly . 
It isn't that kind of smoke , went on Mr. Tetlow . 
Have any of you boys been smoking during recess ? he asked sternly , looking across the room . 
Danny , Jim , and some of the others seemed to be studying their geography lessons very hard . 
I just want to say a word about cigarette smoking , went on Mr. Tetlow , for that is usually how a boy begins . 
Of smoking in general , when a boy gets to be a man , I have nothing to say . 
Some say it is injurious , and others not , in moderation . 
But there can be no doubt that for a growing boy to smoke is very harmful . 
Again I ask if anyone here has been smoking ? No one replied . 
The guilty boys bent deep over their books and did not look up . 
Well , I am sure someone here has , said Mr. Tetlow . 
I can smell it plainly . 
He walked down the aisles , looking sharply from one boy to another . 
If he was sure who were the guilty ones he gave no sign . 
And I want to add , said Mr. Tetlow , that not only is cigarette smoking harmful to the smoker , but it is dangerous . 
Many fires have been caused in that way . 
If I find out who of my pupils have been smoking around the school they will be severely punished . 
CHAPTER XVII THE FIRST SNOW THERE was considerable talk among the boys in Danny's room after Mr. Tetlow departed . 
And it was noticed that Danny and some of his particular friends looked around with rather frightened faces , over their shoulders , as they talked among themselves . 
What they said could not be heard , for they spoke in whispers . 
I hope you weren't one of those boys , Bert , said Nan , as she passed her brother on the way home from school that afternoon . 
If you were You needn't worry , he said , with a smile . 
I'm not ready to smoke yet . 
Nor ever , I hope , said Nan , as she turned up her little nose . 
Nothing more was heard of the smoking matter for several days , and it was about forgotten , when something else came to claim the attention of the Bobbsey twins and their friends . 
At once she was all attention , and her lesson was forgotten . 
Oh ! she thought , it's snowing ! And it looks as if it would be a big storm . 
Oh , I'm so glad ! Nan did not know all the trouble and misery a big snow storm can cause , so she may be forgiven for wishing for one . 
She only saw the side of it that meant fun for her and her friends . 
But now a number of other pupils in the room had noticed the storm , and eyes were out of doors rather than on books . 
The teacher saw that she was not getting the attention of her class , and she understood the reason . 
Now , boys and girls , she said gently , you can have a good time in the snow after you get out of here . 
So please give attention to your lessons for a few minutes more . 
Then you will be finished . 
Nan Bobbsey , you may go to the board and do the third example . 
Nor was Bert any more successful . 
He was thinking how many times he would ring the bell on the bob when he came to a street crossing . 
When the Bobbsey twins , little and big , came out of school the snow was coming down more thickly . 
There were just about enough of the white crystals on the ground , when the school children came out to make a few snowballs , and this they at once proceeded to do . 
Danny Rugg , who had not forgiven Bert for the many times the Bobbsey lad had gotten the best of him , threw a ball at Freddie . 
But Bert was on the watch , and managed to jump up and catch the white missile in his hand . 
Then he threw it at Danny , striking him on the neck . 
Here ! Where you throwin' ? demanded Danny , in angry tones . 
The same place you are , replied Bert , not a bit afraid . 
Good weather for ice cream , Danny , he added , and Danny went off in an angry fashion . 
Other boys and girls too , threw the snowballs , but it was in goodnatured fun , and no one was hurt . 
The girls , while they played at this sport , also indulged in washing the faces of each other . 
With handsful of snow they rubbed the ears and cheeks of their chums so that there came a healthy glow to the skin . 
One or two children , who lived near the school , ran in their yards as soon as the classes were dismissed , and brought out their sleds . 
But the snow was too thin to pack well and at best the coasting was not good . 
But it soon will be , declared Bert , as he and Charley walked along . 
We must finish our bob in a hurry . 
We'll work on it late tonight . 
And so the sound of hammer , plane and saw was heard in the old barn , where the sled was being built , until nearly ten o'clock . 
She ought to go very fast ! exclaimed Charley , as they paused to look at their sled . 
I'm sure she will , agreed Bert . 
And we'll put some carpet on the top of the main board , for a cushion for some of the girls . 
His chum agreed that this would be a good plan , and so the bob was made very attractive for the girls . 
Bert and Charley took the big sled out for a private trial on a little hill behind the barn without telling anyone about it . 
They slid down very swiftly , and as they were walking up again Bert said I think we have a fast one all right , Charley . 
I'm sure we have , was the answer . 
It will pass anything on the main hill , went on Bert , and his friend believed him . 
The storm kept up all night , and in the morning there was snow enough to suit anyone . 
Bert laughed as he looked out of the window and saw it . 
There'll be coasting now all right ! he cried , as he saw the big stretch of white over the fields and on the hills . 
We can have bob sled races , too . 
Can't we come ? asked Flossie . 
We like sled rides , added Freddie . 
You may come part of the time , answered Bert . 
But big sleds aren't for little folks like you . 
Not far from the Bobbsey home was a long hill that was most excellent for coasting . 
It was on this that Charley and Bert had decided to test their new sled on a long stretch . 
As they hauled it from the barn where it had been made , and started to pull it to the hill , there were many laughs at the odd homemade affair . 
For Bert and Charley had done most of the work themselves , and it was rather rough . 
She'll never coast ! cried one boy , with a laugh . 
He was quite a friend of Danny's . 
Here comes the sled that can , though ! cried another , and Danny himself came into view , pulling a fine , new , big bob after him . 
That's the fastest one on the hill , boasted another lad who was helping Danny pull his sled . 
Well , I think ours is fast , too , said Bert calmly . 
Do you want to race ? asked Danny with a sharp glance at Bert . 
I don't mind , was the answer . 
It was after school , following the first snow , and the hill was just right for coasting . 
Come on ! Come on ! cried a number of boys and girls , as they heard what went on between Danny and Bert . 
There's going to be a race on the big hill between the big bobs . 
The sleds were the two largest owned by anyone in the neighborhood , and both were fine ones . 
Danny had bought his , but Bert and Charley had made theirs , and so , though it was not so fancy , it was stronger . 
Most eyes were on Danny's sled , for it was painted in bright colors , and brightly varnished . 
It had a red cushion of carpet on the top , and places at the side to rest one's feet . 
The bob of Bert and Charley was built just the same , but it was painted in homemade fashion , and the carpet seat was an old and faded one . 
But it had a new gong and a fine big steering wheel . 
All ready for the race , cried Danny , as he got his sled in position . 
Who's going down with me ? A number of boys came forward . 
Who's going with Bert and me ? asked Charley , and several others stepped forward . 
Go ahead , if you want to come in last ! sneered Danny , as he got his sled in place . 
I'll tell 'em you're coming , Bert . 
All right , was the cool answer . 
Get an , boys ! Soon both sleds were filled , and all was ready for the big race the first of the season . 
CHAPTER XVIII A NIGHT ALARM ARE you all ready ? called Danny to Bert , looking over at the homemade bob , and there was something like contempt in his tone . 
All ready , answered Bert . 
I'll start as soon as you give the word . 
We ought to have someone to shove us off , suggested Danny . 
It won't be fair if one or the other gets a headstart . 
Hi ! He's afraid already ! cried Charley Mason . 
He knows we're going to beat ! I am not ! retorted Danny . 
It will be a walkover for me once I start . 
But I don't want Bert Bobbsey saying I took advantage of him , after the race is over . 
You needn't be afraid I won't say so I won't have to , replied Bert . 
All the same I think it would be better if we each had a push . 
I want to be fair , too . 
Hey , Bert ! called a shrill voice , as the elder Bobbsey lad was looking about for some on the hill to whom he might appeal . 
Can't I ride down with you , Bert ? It was Freddie who called , and he came runnining up , anxious to take part in the exciting race . 
No , Freddie , not this time , explained Bert kindly . 
I want only large boys with me in the race . 
I'll give you a ride afterward . 
After I beat him , he means , sneered Danny . 
Come on , let's race if we're going to , called some of the boys on Danny's sled . 
Yes don't stay here all day . 
Shall we shove off ourselves ? Just then there came along two large boys , Frank Cobb , and his particular chum , Irving Knight . 
What's going on here a race ? asked Frank . 
It looks that way , said Irving . 
Oh , will you push us off ? begged Bert , appealing to Frank , whose father worked in Mr. Bobbsey's lumber yard . 
Sure we will , answered Frank goodnaturedly . 
Take the other sled , Irving , he said to his chum , and we'll give 'em an even start . 
Then we'll see which beats , and may the best sled win ! That's what I say ! cried Irving . 
The two larger boys took their places behind the bobs . 
They slowly shoved them to the edge of the hill , held them there a moment , and , at a nod to each other , shoved them down evenly . 
Hurray ! cried the crowd of other coasters . 
There they go ! And Danny's ahead ! said some of his friends . 
No , Bert's sled is ! shouted his admirers . 
As a matter of fact , though , both sleds were even at the start . 
On and on they went very swiftly , for the hill had been worn smooth . 
Then Bert saw his bob getting ahead a little , and he felt that he was going to win easily . 
But he was glad too soon , for , a little later , Danny's sled shot ahead , and for some distance was in the lead . 
Can't you beat him , Bert ? whispered Charley Mason , who sat just behind his chum . 
I hope so , was the answer . 
But I can't really do anything . 
We just have to depend on the sled , you know . 
Steer a little more over to the left , suggested another boy . 
Look out where you're going , Bert Bobbsey ! warned Danny , looking back . 
You're coming over on my side of the hill ! No I'm not . 
I'm away from the middle even , said Bert . 
Besides , I'm behind you . 
I know you are , and you're going to stay there but I don't want you to run into me . 
Bert thought of the time , the winter before , when Danny had run into him , and broken his sled , but he said nothing . 
He did not want that kind of an accident to be repeated if he could help it . 
On , on and on dashed the big bobs , with the crowd on the hill , and a number of coasters scattered along the way , watching anxiously . 
As soon as Bert had steered over to the left his sled began to go faster , as the snow was packed better there . 
He was fast catching up to Danny , when one of the boys on that bob , looking back , saw it , and warned the steersman . 
He's coming , Danny , he cried . 
Oh , he is eh ? Well , he won't pass me , and Danny steered his sled over directly in front of Bert's , almost causing Bert to collide vith him . 
Shame ! cried some watchers . 
That wasn't fair ! Let him keep on his own side then , warned Danny . 
Better look out , Danny , warned the boy sitting directly back of him . 
Oh , it's only a spurt . 
We'll soon be at the bottom of the hill and win . 
On and on came Bert's bob , the Flier . 
It was a little ahead of Danny's now , and the latter , seeing this , steered over , thinking the going was better there . 
Look out ! warned Bert . 
Who's crowding over now ? Well , I've got a right here ! snarled Danny . 
But Bert knew his rights also , and would not give away . 
He held to his place , and Danny dared not come too close . 
Then , as Bert found himself on smooth , hardpacked snow , he steered as straight as he could . 
More and more ahead of Danny he went , until he was fully in front of him . 
We're going to win ! We're going to win ! cried Bert's friends . 
We're going to win the race ! Danny was wild with anger . 
He steered his sled over sharply , hoping to get on the same track as was Bert and so pass him . 
But it was not to be . 
Danny took too sudden a turn , and the next instant his bob overturned , spilling everyone off . 
There was a cry of surprise at the accident , and some of those on Bert's sled looked back . 
Bert himself looked straight ahead as a steersman always should . 
Danny's upset ! cried Charley . 
I'm sorry ! said Bert . 
Now he'll claim the race wasn't fair . 
Aw , I'd have beaten if you hadn't gotten in my way so I had to steer over , cried Danny . 
Don't talk that way now , said Irving , who , with Frank Cobb had come to the end of the hill . 
Bert beat you fair and square . 
Aw , well grumbled Danny . 
I'll race over again , if you like , offered Bert . 
Yes , and do the same thing , grumbled Danny . 
I know my sled is the best . 
But few others , save those who hoped for a ride on it , agreed with the bully , and Bert's homemade bob was held to be champion of the hill . 
Then came many more coasts , Bert giving Nan and Flossie and Freddie , and a number of their little girl and boy friends , several rides . 
Until late that evening the coasting kept up , and Bert and Charley were congratulated on all sides for the fine bob they had made . 
They all heard the alarm , and as Papa Bobbsey counted the number , he said to his wife That must be near here . 
It's a windy night and a fire in my lumber yard would be very bad . 
As he went to the window he saw a glare on the sky in the direction of the lake . 
It is near here ! he said . 
The engines are going past our house ! I'd better take a look . 
Can I come ? asked the little Fat Fireman from his cot . 
Take me , papa ! CHAPTER XIX WHO WAS SMOKING ? MR . 
BOBBSEY laughed , though he was worried about the fire . 
It seemed so odd for Freddie to want to go out in the cold , dark night . 
Not this time , my Fat Fireman ! said Freddie's papa . 
It may be only a pile of rubbish on fire . 
I'll tell you about it when I come back . 
Where does it seem to be ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey . 
Down near the lake , answered her husband . 
I'm afraid , he added in a lower voice , that it may be our boathouse . 
It seems to be about there . 
Oh , I hope not ! she exclaimed . 
Still , better that than our own house . 
Pooh ! engines have their own water ! exclaimed Freddie , who had rather hazy notions as to how fire engines work . 
He was getting over his disappointment about not being allowed to go with his father , and had again cuddled down in his warm crib . 
Another engine dashed by the Bobbsey house , and the ringing of the alarm bell increased . 
He felt that his father would let him go to the fire . 
At any rate he intended to be all ready when he made his request , so as not to cause delay . 
Are you going , Bert ? asked Nan , as from her room , next to that of her brother , she heard him moving around . 
I am , if father will take me , he said . 
It's too cold for me ! Nan exclaimed with a shiver , as she went back in bed again . 
She had gotten up to peer from the window at the red glare in the sky . 
Oh good land a'massy ! Don't tell me dat ! she cried . 
Sam ! Sam ! Wake up . 
De house is on fire an' you'se got t' sabe me ! No , no , Dinah ! cried Mrs. Bobbsey , to calm the cook . 
It's down by the lake . 
If you look out of your window you can see it . 
Bert came out of his room , also ready for the street . 
May I come , father ? he asked . 
Well , I declare ! exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey , in surprise . 
So you got dressed too , did you ? Yes , sir . 
May I come ? Mr. Bobbsey hesitated a moment , and then , with a smile , said Well , I suppose so , since you are all ready . 
I'm taking Bert , he called to his wife . 
Freddie , you'll have to be the Fat Fireman while I'm gone , and look after the house . 
The fire was now larger , as they could see when they got out in the street . 
There was no wind and the flames went straight up in the air . 
There were not many buildings down by the lake , only some boat shelters and places like that . 
The Bobbsey's boathouse was a fine large one , having recently been made bigger as Mr. Bobbsey was thinking of buying a new motor boat . 
Mr. Bobbsey and his son hurried on , following the crowd that filled the street leading to the lake . 
Several gentlemen knew the lumber merchant , and called to him . 
I guess you're glad this isn't your lumber yard , said one . 
Yes , indeed , was the answer . 
I had a little fire there once , and I don't want another . 
But I'm afraid this is some of my property just the same . 
Is that so ? Yes , it looks to be my boathouse . 
So it does ! cried another man . 
Oh , father ! cried Bert . 
Our nice boathouse ! Well , the firemen may save it , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
We will hope so , anyhow , he added . 
They had not gone on much farther before Mr. Bobbsey and Bert could see that it was indeed their boathouse on fire . 
One side was all ablaze , and the flames were slowly , but surely , eating their way over the whole place . 
But two engines were now pumping streams of water on the fire , and they might put it out before too much damage was done . 
Mr. Bobbsey rushed forward , and , as the policemen and firemen knew him , they let him get close to the boathouse . 
You stay here , Bert , said Mr. Bobbsey to his son . 
Where are you going ? Bert wanted to know . 
I'm going to see if we can save any of the boats . 
There was a sailing craft , a number of rowboats , and a small gasoline launch in the boathouse . 
They had been stored away for the winter . 
Come on , men ! cried Mr. Bobbsey , as he saw some of his workmen in the crowd . 
They began lowering the boats into the icy water , while the firemen played the several lines of hose on the flames . 
The third engine was now working , and so much water was pumped that even a larger fire could not have stood it for very long . 
It will soon be out . 
Are you sure ? asked the lumber merchant . 
You can see for yourself . 
It will be all right . 
Mr. Bobbsey looked , and was satisfied that the larger part of the boathouse would be saved . 
So he and his men stopped their work and went outside to cool off . 
A little later the fire was practically out , but one engine continued to throw water on the smouldering sparks . 
The crowd began to leave now , for there was nothing more to see , and it was cold . 
My ! exclaimed Bert as his father came back to where he had left his son , it didn't take long to settle that fire . 
No , we have a good fire department , replied Mr. Bobbsey . 
The fire chief came up to Mr Bobbsey , who expressed his thanks for the quick work of the firemen . 
Have you any idea what started the fire , Mr. Bobbsey ? asked the chief . 
Was the boathouse in use ? No , was the answer . 
It had been closed for the winter some time ago in fact as soon as the carpenters finished making the changes . 
No one was in it as far as I know . 
Then how do you account for this ? asked the chief , as he held out a box partly filled with cigarettes . 
You found those cigarettes in the living room of the boathouse ? asked Mr. Bobbsey . 
I did and the question is who was smoking ? went on the chief . 
In my opinion the end of a cigarette thrown aside , or perhaps a lighted match dropped in some corner , started this fire . 
Who was smoking ? CHAPTER XX A CONFESSION THE chief handed Mr. Bobbsey the half emptied cigarette box . 
Mr. Bobbsey turned it over and over in his hand , as though trying to learn to whom it belonged . 
They are something I never use , he said . 
I don't suppose we could tell , from this , who had it ? No , and the chief shook his head . 
It's a common kind , and a good many of the stores sell 'em . 
A good many of the boys smoke 'em , too that's the worst of it , and he looked at Bert a bit sharply . 
Oh , you needn't be afraid for my boy ! exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey hastily . 
I have Bert's promise that he won't smoke until he's man , and perhaps he won't want to then . 
Good ! exclaimed the chief heartily That's what I like to hear . 
But it's as certain as guns is , and nothing more certain than them , that some one was smoking in your boathouse , and set fire to it . 
And I wish we could find out who it was . 
So do I ! exclaimed Mr. Bobbsey . 
If only to teach them a lesson on how dangerous it is to be careless . 
Well , I suppose we can't do anything more , and he sighed , for half the beautiful boathouse was in ruins . 
Mr. Bobbsey and Bert were soon at home , telling the news to the folks . 
Freddie's eyes opened wide in surprise as he listened to the account of how the firemen had put out the fire . 
Oh , I wish I could have been there ! he cried . 
What caused the fire ? asked Mrs. Bobbsey of her husband , when the children had gone to bed again . 
Some boys or some one else smoking cigarettes , the chief thinks . 
We found a half emptied box . 
Mr. Bobbsey was up early , for he wanted to see by daylight what damage the fire had done , and he also wanted to see the insurance company about the loss . 
The fire chief came down while Mr. Bobbsey was there , and they talked matters over . 
One afternoon Danny's father , Mr. Rugg , came home unexpectedly , and , wanting something that was out in his barn went to get it . 
As he entered the place he heard a scramble of feet , some excited whispers , and then silence . 
He was sure that some one was in the place and had run to hide . 
Who's there ? called Mr. Rugg sharply . 
There was no answer , but he listened and was sure he heard some one in the little room where the harness was kept . 
He walked over to the door , and tried to open it . 
Some one on the inside was holding it , but Mr. Rugg gave a strong pull , and the door flew open . 
To the surprise of Mr. Rugg he saw his son Danny , and a number of boys , hiding there , and the smell of cigarette smoke was very strong . 
Danny ! exclaimed his father sternly , what does this mean ? We were playing ! stammered Danny . 
And to play that is it necessary to smoke ? Mr. Rugg asked sharply . 
We we aren't smoking , answered Danny . 
Not now , but you have been . 
I can smell it plainly . 
Go into the house , Danny , and these other boys must go home . 
If I find them smoking in my barn again I shall punish them . 
You might have set it on fire . 
Danny had nothing to say , indeed , there was little he could say . 
He had been caught in the act . 
The other boys slunk off , and Danny went into the house , his father following . 
Danny , I am very sorry to learn this , said Mr. Rugg . 
I did not know that you smoked a boy of your age ! Well , I never smoked much . 
Lots of the fellows smoke more than I do . 
It is a bad habit for a boy . 
You may go to your room . 
I will consider your case later . 
From then on Mr. Rugg did some hard thinking . 
He began putting two and two together as the old saying has it . 
He remembered the Bobbsey boathouse fire . 
On that occasion Danny had come in late , and there had been the smell of smoke on his clothes . 
Mr. Rugg went to his son's room . 
A search showed a number of empty cigarette boxes , and cigarette pictures , and the boxes were all of the same kind the kind that had been found in the halfburned boathouse . 
They did not mean to cause the fire , and had no idea that they were to blame . 
One of the boys was made ill by too much smoking , and they all hurried away . 
But they must have left a smouldering stump of cigarette in some corner , or a carelessly thrown match , that started the blaze . 
Then , when the fire bells sounded , and they learned what had happened , Danny and all the boys promised each other that they would keep the secret . 
Well , Danny , I can't tell you how sorry I am , said Mr. Rugg , when the confession was over . 
Sorry not only that Mr. Bobbsey's boathouse was burned , but because you have deceived me , and your good mother , and smoked in secret . 
I feel very badly about it . 
There was , however , hope for him . 
You must be punished for this , went on Mr. Rugg , and this punishment will be that you are not to have the motor boat I promised you for next Summer . 
Perhaps it will be a lesson to you . 
Danny wept bitterly , for he had counted very much on having this boat . 
But it was a good lesson to him . 
Mr. Rugg also told the fathers of the other boys whom he caught with his son , and these boys were punished in different ways . 
Mr. Rugg also informed Mr. Bobbsey how the boathouse had been set afire , and expressed his sorrow . 
And so the mystery was cleared up . 
So do I , added Flossie . 
Poor Snoop ! I do miss him so much . 
So do I ! exclaimed Freddie . 
But Snap is a nice dog , and I guess I like dogs better than cats , anyhow . 
Why , Freddie Bobbsey ! cried Nan . 
Don't you love Snoop any more ? Oh , yes , 'course I do , but then he isn't here to be loved , and Snap is . 
Yes , I guess that does make a difference , admitted Nan . 
Let's ask , cried Freddie , always ready for action . 
It was Saturday , and there was no school . 
Bert had gone off coasting on his new bob , but Nan did not want to go , her mother having asked her to stay and help with the dusting . 
But now the little bit of housework was over , and Nan was free . 
We'll go down to papa's office , she said to Flossie and Freddie , and ask him if we can go to the railroad . 
I know one of the ticket agents and he can tell us of whom to ask about our cat . 
Mrs. Bobbsey had no objections , and soon , with F ossie and Freddie at her side , Nan set off for her father's office in the lumber yard . 
The smaller twins were delighted . 
The fat lady has our cup I'm sure of that , said Flossie . 
Well , we can ask papa if he has heard from the circus people , suggested Nan . 
Mr. Bobbsey was rather surprised to see his three children come into the office , but he was glad to meet them , for it made a break in his day's work . 
After a little thought he said they might go to the railroad office to inquire about Snoop . 
Nan and her brother and sister went in a trolley car , and were soon at the depot . 
But to their disappointment there was no news of Snoop . 
The fat , black cat seemed to have completely disappeared . 
None was pure black , so I knew they could not be yours . 
Yes , so are we , replied Nan . 
Well , I guess Snoop is lost for good . 
He has been away a long time now . 
What luck ? asked Mr. Bobbsey , as the three came in his private office , their faces shining and red with the glow of winter . 
None , said Nan sadly . 
Have you heard from the circus fat lady yet , papa ? asked Flossie . 
Yes , we want our cup back , added her brother . 
No word yet , answered Mr. Bobbsey . 
That circus is traveling all over Cuba , and the letters I sent never seem to catch up to them . 
However , I am sending one on ahead now , to a city where they will soon give a show . 
The fat lady will find it there waiting for her , and she may answer then . 
And with this the children had to be content . 
Getting back home , Flossie and Freddie took out their sleds and went for a coast on a small hill , not far from their home . 
This was where the smaller children had their fun , leaving the larger hill for the bigger girls and boys . 
Well , after this I think we all need something to cheer us up , said Papa Bobbsey , who came home from the office early that day . 
I have some good news , if you would like to hear it , he said , as he drew a letter from his pocket . 
Is it to tell that some of our friends are coming to see us ? asked Bert . 
Well , yes , I think you will call it a visit from a friend at least part of it , said Papa Bobbsey . 
This is a letter from the fat lady in the circus . 
What ! cried Flossie the one who has our cup ? The same , said Mr. Bobbsey with a smile . 
And she has more than your cup . 
Listen , and he read the letter . 
It was too long to put it all in here , but it went on to say how the fat lady really had the valuable silver cup belonging to the twins . 
I have had it ever since and have been wondering how I could send it back to you . 
The circus went to Cuba soon after that , and has been traveling around that island ever since . 
I have only just received your last letter asking me about the cup , or I would have answered before . 
If you will send me directions how to ship the cup to you I shall be very glad to return it . 
Oh goodie ! cried Freddie . 
We'll have our nice cup again ! Is that all in the letter , papa , ? asked Flossie . 
No , not quite , he said . 
I'll read a little more , and be read When our circus was wrecked we lost a valuable trick dog . 
He could play soldier , say his prayers , turn somersaults , and do a number of tricks . 
The ringmaster feels very badly about losing him , and has tried to locate him , but without success . 
If you should hear of anyone near you having such a dog we would be much obliged if you would send him to us as he belongs to the circus . 
He just couldn't help it . 
Well , I don't see anything to make fun over , said Nan , with a little pout . 
Why , you all act as though you had lost your best friend or were going to . 
Well , Snap is one of our best friends , aren't you Snap ? said Freddie . 
Still , if he belongs to the circus I don't see but what I'll have to send him back , went on Mr. Bobbsey , slowly . 
At this Flossie burst into tears , and Mrs. Bobbsey , putting her arms about the little girl , said to her husband Are you in earnest Richard ? Don't tease the child . 
The fat lady wrote just that . 
I believe the dog we have does belong to the circus . 
Then we'll have to give him up I suppose , and Mrs. Bobbsey sighed , for she had grown very much attached to the fine animal . 
Well , we won't have to send him back right away , said Mr. Bobbsey . 
I will have to get more particulars . 
But I did not finish the fat lady's letter . 
What ! Is there more news in it ? asked Nan . 
I brought him to Cuba with me , and I am teaching him tricks . 
He may be as valuable as our dog was . 
A black cat ! cried Nan . 
It's our Snoop ! shouted Freddie , yes , that's it ! The fat lady has our cat as well as our cup . 
Oh , papa , make her give back our Snoop ! Mr. Bobbsey laughed . 
You see how it is , he said . 
She has our cat , and we have their dog . 
We'll have to give up our dog to get our cat . 
The Bobbsey twins had not thought of this before . 
They looked strangely at one another . 
Papa ! cried Freddie , jumping up and down in his excitement , can't we keep both the circus dog and our cat ? Oh , do please , let us . 
But maybe Snap would fight Snoop , said Flossie . 
Freddie thought for a moment . 
I don't believe he would , he said at last . 
Well , said Papa Bobbsey , after a bit , I' see what I can do . 
I'll write to the fat lady , telling her how to ship your silver cup , and also how to send Snoop . 
And I'll ask if we can buy Snap . 
How will that do ? Fine ! cried all the Bobbsey twins at once , and they made a rush for Mr. Bobbsey , hugging and kissing him . 
The letter was sent to the fat lady , and then came a time of anxious waiting . 
Never before had the children seemed to care so much for Snap . 
One day a letter came , saying that the silver cup had been sent , and also Snoop , the cat . 
But what about Snap , papa ? asked Nan . 
Does she say the circus will sell him ? No , the man who owns him is away for a few days . 
When he comes back he will let me know . 
But , anyhow , you will have your cup and cat back . 
But we want Snap , too ! said Flossie . 
The twins did not feel much like having fun . 
There was a warm spell , and all the snow had melted . 
One day an express wagon stopped in front of the Bobbsey house . 
It was a Saturday , and there was no school , and , as it happened , all four of the twins were in . 
Two boxes for you , Mrs. Bobbsey , said the driver , as he opened his receipt book . 
I'll bring them in while you sign . 
The man came up the walk with two boxes . 
One was small , and the other larger , with slats on one end . 
And from this box came a peculiar noise . 
It's a cat ! shouted Freddie . 
It's Snoop our Snoop ! cried Flossie . 
Quickly the boxes were carried into the house . 
Bert got a hammer and screw driver and soon had opened the one containing the black cat . 
Snap , the dog , walked slowly into the room . 
Oh dear ! cried Flossie as she saw him , now maybe they'll fight ! I'll hold Snap , volunteered Freddie . 
Come on , Snoop ! Come out ! cried Bert , as he pried off the last slat . 
Meouw ! cried Snoop , as he came slowly out of the box in which he had ridden from Cuba . 
Out walked the black cat . 
He looked about him strangely for a moment , and then began to purr , and rubbed up against Flossie's legs . 
They all looked anxiously at Snap . 
The dog glanced at the cat , stretched lazily and wagged his tail . 
Snoop came over to him , and the two animals sniffed at each other , Mrs. Bobbsey holding Snap by the collar . 
He's kissing Snoop ! He's kissing Snoop ! cried Freddie . 
Yes , they love each other ! exclaimed Flossie . 
They are not going to fight ! Oh , how glad I am ! and she danced in delight . 
Oh , if only we can keep Snap now , said Nan , while Mrs. Bobbsey , satisfied that the two animals would be friends , had opened the other express box . 
It contained the twins' silver cup , so long missing . 
Mr. Bobbsey came home soon after that his face was smiling . 
Oh , papa ! Flossie greeted him , Snoop came , and Snap kissed him ! May we keep Snap , papa ? asked Freddie . 
Yes , was Mr. Bobbsey's answer . 
I have a letter from the circus man , and he will sell Snap to me . 
I have already sent the money . 
And there is another letter from the fat lady , telling about some of the new tricks she taught Snoop , so you can make him do them . 
Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! cried the Bobbsey twins in firelight , as they looked at their two pets . 
What lots of things have happened since we came back from the seashore , said Nan , little later . 
I wonder if the rest of the Winter will be as lively as this first part has been ? Maybe , said Bert with a smile . 
After reading the fat lady's second letter the twins got Snoop to do some of the tricks the cat had learned . 
He was not as smart at them as Snap was at his , but then cats never do learn to do tricks as well as do dogs . 
Still everyone agreed that the fat lady had done her training well . 
And the silver cup , which , with Snoop , had gone on such a long journey , was put back in its place on the mantle , to be admired by all . 
Now my little story has come to an end , but I hope you children who have read it will care to hear more of the Bobbsey twins and the things they did . 
So I will say goodbye for a while , trusting to meet you all again . 
