The brothers De Witt humoured Louis XIV . 
Their national pride held him up as the Mithridates of the Republic . 
This new chief , quite ready to appear on the political stage , and to measure himself against Louis XIV . 
, however gigantic the fortunes of the Grand Monarch loomed in the future , was William , Prince of Orange , son of William II . 
, and grandson , by his mother Henrietta Stuart , of Charles I. of England . 
We have mentioned him before as the person by whom the people expected to see the office of Stadtholder restored . 
This young man was , in , twenty two years of age . 
John de Witt , who was his tutor , had brought him up with the view of making him a good citizen . 
, notifying thereby that he only yielded to force . 
It was a real miracle that on that day he escaped from the doom intended for him . 
John de Witt derived no advantage from his ready compliance with the wishes of his fellow citizens . 
Only a few days after , an attempt was made to stab him , in which he was severely although not mortally wounded . 
This by no means suited the views of the Orange faction . 
The wretched tool who was at hand to be the agent of this dastardly plot was one Tyckelaer whom we have already mentioned , a surgeon by profession . 
This disclosure was , indeed , well calculated to call forth a furious outbreak among the Orange faction . 
But Cornelius was not only possessed of a great mind , but also of a great heart . 
The Athenians , who indeed have left behind them a pretty tolerable reputation for ingratitude , have in this respect to yield precedence to the Dutch . 
They , at least in the case of Aristides , contented themselves with banishing him . 
John de Witt , at the first intimation of the charge brought against his brother , had resigned his office of Grand Pensionary . 
There were , indeed , others with less hostile intentions . 
All that they cared for was the spectacle , always so attractive to the mob , whose instinctive pride is flattered by it , the sight of greatness hurled down into the dust . 
Being in such a temper , people generally will run rather than walk which was the reason why the inhabitants of the Hague were hurrying so fast towards the Buytenhof . 
The mob even began to vent its rage by inveighing against the iniquitous judges , who had allowed such a detestable criminal as the villain Cornelius to get off so cheaply . 
Some of the agitators whispered , He will be off , he will escape from us ! Others replied , A vessel is waiting for him at Schevening , a French craft . 
Honest Tyckelaer ! Hurrah for Tyckelaer ! the mob cried in chorus . 
Well , then , don't let us allow them to depart ! advised one of the patriots who had gained the start of the others . 
Forward to the prison , to the prison ! echoed the crowd . 
Amid these cries , the citizens ran along faster and faster , cocking their muskets , brandishing their hatchets , and looking death and defiance in all directions . 
'Death to the traitors ! as much of it as you like , as long as you show your wishes only by cries . 
But , as to putting them to death in good earnest , I am here to prevent that , and I shall prevent it . 
And do you know , sir , that we have muskets ? roared the commandant of the burghers . 
Death to the traitors ! cried the exasperated burghers . 
Go along with you , growled the officer , you always cry the same thing over again . 
With this , he took his post at the head of his troops , whilst the tumult grew fiercer and fiercer about the Buytenhof . 
John de Witt , indeed , had alighted from his coach with his servant , and quietly walked across the courtyard of the prison . 
But what is it you are afraid of ? I am afraid of the harm which they are going to do to him . 
That's unfortunately no reason , except for the contrary , muttered the girl , as , on an imperative sign from her father , she withdrew . 
Indeed , child , what you say is only too true . 
And with the same calm mien , but more melancholy than he had been on entering the prison , the Grand Pensionary proceeded towards the cell of his brother . 
Chapter The Two Brothers As the fair Rosa , with foreboding doubt , had foretold , so it happened . 
Wherefore such an order ? Why guard the prison ? cried the Orangists . 
Stop , replied the Count , there you at once ask me more than I can tell you . 
I was told , 'Guard the prison , and I guard it . 
You , gentlemen , who are almost military men yourselves , you are aware that an order must never be gainsaid . 
But this order has been given to you that the traitors may be enabled to leave the town . 
Very possibly , as the traitors are condemned to exile , replied Tilly . 
But who has given this order ? The States , to be sure ! The States are traitors . 
I don't know anything about that ! And you are a traitor yourself ! I ? Yes , you . 
Well , as to that , let us understand each other gentlemen . 
Whom should I betray ? The States ? Why , I cannot betray them , whilst , being in their pay , I faithfully obey their orders . 
If you did that , cried the burghers , we should have a pop at you , too . 
Of course you would but suppose you killed every man Jack of us , those whom we should have killed would not , for all that , be less dead . 
Then leave the place to us , and you will perform the part of a good citizen . 
The sentence of banishment having been pronounced , there was no occasion for inflicting the torture extraordinary . 
Cornelius was stretched on his couch , with broken wrists and crushed fingers . 
This noise , which roared outside of the walls of the prison , as the surf dashing against the rocks , now reached the ears of the prisoner . 
He was so absorbed in his never ceasing pain that it had almost become a habit with him . 
John tenderly kissed his brother on the forehead , and put his sore hands gently back on the mattress . 
Cornelius , my poor brother , you are suffering great pain , are you not ? I am suffering no longer , since I see you , my brother . 
Oh , my poor dear Cornelius ! I feel most wretched to see you in such a state . 
You are coming to take me away , are you not ? I am . 
I am quite healed help me to get up , and you shall see how I can walk . 
You will not have to walk far , as I have my coach near the pond , behind Tilly's dragoons . 
Of a tumult ? replied Cornelius , fixing his eyes on his perplexed brother a tumult ? Yes , Cornelius . 
Oh ! that's what I heard just now , said the prisoner , as if speaking to himself . 
Then , turning to his brother , he continued , Are there many persons down before the prison . 
Yes , my brother , there are . 
I have made my way through all sorts of bystreets and alleys . 
At this moment the noise in the square below was heard to roar with increasing fury . 
Tilly was parleying with the burghers . 
With the help of God , Cornelius , we'll at least try , answered John but , first of all , a word with you . 
Speak ! The shouts began anew . 
Hark , hark ! continued Cornelius , how angry those people are ! Is it against you , or against me ? I should say it is against us both , Cornelius . 
What blockheads they are ! But , indeed , they reproach us with it . 
I hope you have burned the letters before you left Dort to join me at the Hague . 
I rejoice in the glory of my country and particularly do I rejoice in your glory , John . 
I have taken good care not to burn that correspondence . 
Then we are lost , as far as this life is concerned , quietly said the Grand Pensionary , approaching the window . 
No , on the contrary , John , we shall at the same time save our lives and regain our popularity . 
But what have you done with these letters ? I have intrusted them to the care of Cornelius van Baerle , my godson , whom you know , and who lives at Dort . 
Poor honest Van Baerle ! who knows so much , and yet thinks of nothing but of flowers and of God who made them . 
You have intrusted him with this fatal secret it will be his ruin , poor soul ! His ruin ? Yes , for he will either be strong or he will be weak . 
In either case he is lost , and so are we . 
Let us , therefore , fly , fly , as long as there is still time . 
He is neither the one nor the other but that is not now the question . 
The principal point is , that he is sure not to divulge the secret , for the very good reason that he does not know it himself . 
John turned round in surprise . 
Quick then , cried John , as there is still time , let us convey to him directions to burn the parcel . 
Through whom ? Through my servant Craeke , who was to have accompanied us on horseback , and who has entered the prison with me , to assist you downstairs . 
Yes , yes , said Cornelius , I hear these shouts very plainly , but what is their meaning ? John opened the window . 
Death to the traitors ! howled the populace . 
Do you hear now , Cornelius ? To the traitors ! that means us ! said the prisoner , raising his eyes to heaven and shrugging his shoulders . 
Yes , it means us , repeated John . 
Where is Craeke ? At the door of your cell , I suppose . 
John opened the door the faithful servant was waiting on the threshold . 
Come in , Craeke , and mind well what my brother will tell you . 
No , John it will not suffice to send a verbal message unfortunately , I shall be obliged to write . 
And why that ? Because Van Baerle will neither give up the parcel nor burn it without a special command to do so . 
But will you be able to write , poor old fellow ? John asked , with a look on the scorched and bruised hands of the unfortunate sufferer . 
If I had pen and ink you would soon see , said Cornelius . 
Here is a pencil , at any rate . 
Have you any paper ? for they have left me nothing . 
Here , take this Bible , and tear out the fly leaf . 
Very well , that will do . 
But your writing will be illegible . 
Just leave me alone for that , said Cornelius . 
The executioners have indeed pinched me badly enough , but my hand will not tremble once in tracing the few lines which are requisite . 
A cold sweat stood on the brow of the Grand Pensionary . 
Cornelius wrote My dear Godson , Burn the parcel which I have intrusted to you . 
Burn it without looking at it , and without opening it , so that its contents may for ever remain unknown to yourself . 
Secrets of this description are death to those with whom they are deposited . 
Burn it , and you will have saved John and Cornelius de Witt . 
Farewell , and love me . 
Cornelius de Witt August th , . 
And then it will be our turn to depart . 
Five minutes had not elapsed , before a long and shrill whistle was heard through the din and noise of the square of the Buytenhof . 
John gratefully raised his eyes to heaven . 
And now , said he , let us off , Cornelius . 
This stranger was a very young man , of scarcely twenty two or three , with nothing about him that bespoke any great energy . 
What difference is there between the figure of the conqueror and that of the pirate ? said the ancients . 
The difference only between the eagle and the vulture , serenity or restlessness . 
At the savage yells of the mob , the window of the Town hall opened , and a man came forth to address the people . 
Who is that on the balcony ? asked the young man , glancing at the orator . 
It is the Deputy Bowelt , replied the officer . 
What sort of a man is he ? Do you know anything of him ? An honest man at least I believe so , Monseigneur . 
I cannot say anything about it myself , as I have no personal acquaintance with Mynheer Bowelt . 
If this Bowelt is an honest man , his Highness continued , he will give to the demand of these furibund petitioners a very queer reception . 
The order ! we want the order ! cried several thousand voices . 
When , at last , he saw that he could not make himself heard , he turned round towards the open window , and called Mynheer d'Asperen . 
Come along , and let us hear the debate . 
Because doing so would simply be signing the death warrant of Cornelius and John de Witt . 
We shall see , his Highness replied , with the most perfect coolness God alone knows what is going on within the hearts of men . 
The officer looked askance at the impassible figure of his companion , and grew pale he was an honest man as well as a brave one . 
From the spot where they stood , his Highness and his attendant heard the tumult and the heavy tramp of the crowd on the staircase of the Town hall . 
The noise thereupon sounded through the windows of the hall , on the balcony of which Mynheers Bowelt and D'Asperen had presented themselves . 
These two gentlemen had retired into the building , very likely from fear of being forced over the balustrade by the pressure of the crowd . 
After this , fluctuating shadows in tumultuous confusion were seen flitting to and fro across the windows the council hall was filling . 
Suddenly the noise subsided , and as suddenly again it rose with redoubled intensity , and at last reached such a pitch that the old building shook to the very roof . 
At length , the living stream poured back through the galleries and stairs to the arched gateway , from which it was seen issuing like waters from a spout . 
At the head of the first group , man was flying rather than running , his face hideously distorted with satanic glee this man was the surgeon Tyckelaer . 
We have it ! we have it ! he cried , brandishing a paper in the air . 
They have got the order ! muttered the officer in amazement . 
Well , then , his Highness quietly remarked , now I know what to believe with regard to Mynheer Bowelt's honesty and courage he has neither the one nor the other . 
The officer bowed , and , without making any reply , followed in the steps of his master . 
There was an immense crowd in the square and about the neighbourhood of the prison . 
But the dragoons of Tilly still kept it in check with the same success and with the same firmness . 
It was not long before the Count heard the increasing din of the approaching multitude , the first ranks of which rushed on with the rapidity of a cataract . 
At the same time he observed the paper , which was waving above the surface of clenched fists and glittering arms . 
Halloa ! he said , rising in his stirrups , and touching his lieutenant with the knob of his sword I really believe those rascals have got the order . 
Dastardly ruffians they are , cried the lieutenant . 
It was indeed the order , which the burgher guard received with a roar of triumph . 
They immediately sallied forth , with lowered arms and fierce shouts , to meet Count Tilly's dragoons . 
But the Count was not the man to allow them to approach within an inconvenient distance . 
Stop ! he cried , stop , and keep off from my horse , or I shall give the word of command to advance . 
Here is the order ! a hundred insolent voices answered at once . 
He took it in amazement , cast a rapid glance on it , and said quite aloud , Those who have signed this order are the real murderers of Cornelius de Witt . 
I would rather have my two hands cut off than have written one single letter of this infamous order . 
Saying this , he folded up the document , and carefully put it in the pocket of his coat . 
The Count tarried behind , facing to the last the infuriated populace , which advanced at the same rate as the Count retired . 
John de Witt , therefore , had by no means exaggerated the danger , when , assisting his brother in getting up , he hurried his departure . 
Cornelius , leaning on the arm of the Ex Grand Pensionary , descended the stairs which led to the courtyard . 
At the bottom of the staircase he found little Rosa , trembling all over . 
Oh , Mynheer John , she said , what a misfortune ! What is it , my child ? asked De Witt . 
They say that they are gone to the Town hall to fetch the order for Tilly's horse to withdraw . 
You do not say so ! replied John . 
Indeed , my dear child , if the dragoons are off , we shall be in a very sad plight . 
I have some advice to give you , Rosa said , trembling even more violently than before . 
Well , let us hear what you have to say , my child . 
Why should not God speak by your mouth ? Now , then , Mynheer John , if I were in your place , I should not go out through the main street . 
But the burgher guard ? Alas ! the burgher guard are the most enraged of all . 
From there I should try to reach the gate by which you intend to leave the town . 
But my brother is not able to walk , said John . 
I shall try , Cornelius said , with an expression of most sublime fortitude . 
But have you not got your carriage ? asked the girl . 
The carriage is down near the great entrance . 
Not so , she replied . 
I considered your coachman to be a faithful man , and I told him to wait for you at the postern . 
The two brothers looked first at each other , and then at Rosa , with a glance full of the most tender gratitude . 
The question is now , said the Grand Pensionary , whether Gryphus will open this door for us . 
Indeed , he will do no such thing , said Rosa . 
And you have got it ? Here it is , Mynheer John . 
I thank you , Master Cornelius , it shall never leave me , replied Rosa . 
Come along , gentlemen , said the girl , who now led the two brothers through an inner lobby to the back of the prison . 
Quick , quick , my masters ! do you hear them ? cried the coachman , in a deadly fright . 
God will reward you for having saved the lives of two men . 
Rosa took the hand which John de Witt proffered to her , and kissed it with every show of respect . 
Go ! for Heaven's sake , go ! she said it seems they are going to force the gate . 
The carriage drove off with the fugitives at the full speed of a pair of spirited Flemish horses . 
The noise which had made Rosa suppose that the people were forcing the prison door was indeed owing to the mob battering against it after the square had been left by the military . 
He turned round and saw Rosa . 
Do you hear these madmen ? he said . 
I hear them so well , my father , that in your place You would open the door ? No , I should allow it to be forced . 
But they will kill me ! Yes , if they see you . 
How shall they not see me ? Hide yourself . 
Where ? In the secret dungeon . 
But you , my child ? I shall get into it with you . 
We shall lock the door and when they have left the prison , we shall again come forth from our hiding place . 
But our prisoners ? God will watch over them , and I shall watch over you . 
Gryphus followed his daughter , and the trap door closed over his head , just as the broken gate gave admittance to the populace . 
Indeed , said he to the officer , indeed , I think you were right , Van Deken the order which the deputies have signed is truly the death warrant of Master Cornelius . 
Do you hear these people ? They certainly bear a sad grudge to the two De Witts . 
In truth , replied the officer , I never heard such shouts . 
They seem to have found out the cell of the man . 
Halloa , halloa ! the man called out , he is gone . 
How is that ? gone ? asked those of the mob who had not been able to get into the prison , crowded as it was with the mass of intruders . 
Gone , gone , repeated the man in a rage , the bird has flown . 
What does this man say ? asked his Highness , growing quite pale . 
However , look ! said the officer . 
At these words the officer felt his blood run cold , as somehow or other he was convinced that the prisoner was lost . 
At this moment the roar of the multitude broke forth like thunder , for it was now quite certain that Cornelius de Witt was no longer in the prison . 
All at once he stopped . 
What is the matter ? asked John , putting his head out of the coach window . 
Oh , my masters ! cried the coachman , it is Terror choked the voice of the honest fellow . 
Well , say what you have to say ! urged the Grand Pensionary . 
The gate is closed , that's what it is . 
How is this ? It is not usual to close the gate by day . 
Just look ! John de Witt leaned out of the window , and indeed saw that the man was right . 
Never mind , but drive on , said John , I have with me the order for the commutation of the punishment , the gate keeper will let us through . 
The carriage moved along , but it was evident that the driver was no longer urging his horses with the same degree of confidence . 
He uttered a cry of surprise , and ran after two other men before him , whom he overtook about a hundred yards farther on , and told them what he had seen . 
The three men then stopped , looking after the carriage , being however not yet quite sure as to whom it contained . 
The carriage in the meanwhile arrived at the Tol Hek . 
Open ! cried the coachman . 
With the key ! Oh , yes ! but if you have not got it ? How is that ? Have not you got the key ? asked the coachman . 
What has become of it ? Well , they have taken it from me . 
Who ? Some one , I dare say , who had a mind that no one should leave the town . 
By whom ? By a pale and thin young man , of about twenty two . 
And wherefore did you give it up to him ? Because he showed me an order , signed and sealed . 
By whom ? By the gentlemen of the Town hall . 
Well , then , said Cornelius calmly , our doom seems to be fixed . 
Do you know whether the same precaution has been taken at the other gates ? I do not . 
Now then , said John to the coachman , God commands man to do all that is in his power to preserve his life go , and drive to another gate . 
These new comers evidently meant mischief with regard to the carriage . 
The brothers De Witt , enclosed within the body of the carriage , were not able to see anything but they felt a severe shock , occasioned by the rearing of the horses . 
Alas ! said Cornelius , I am afraid we have hurt some one . 
Gallop ! gallop ! called John . 
But , notwithstanding this order , the coachman suddenly came to a stop . 
Now , then , what is the matter again ? asked John . 
Look there ! said the coachman . 
Yes , here they are , the traitors , the murderers , the assassins ! answered the men who were running after the carriage to the people who were coming to meet it . 
The former carried in their arms the bruised body of one of their companions , who , trying to seize the reins of the horses , had been trodden down by them . 
This was the object over which the two brothers had felt their carriage pass . 
The coachman stopped , but , however strongly his master urged him , he refused to get off and save himself . 
In an instant the carriage was hemmed in between those who followed and those who met it . 
It rose above the mass of moving heads like a floating island . 
But in another instant it came to a dead stop . 
A blacksmith had with his hammer struck down one of the horses , which fell in the traces . 
Behind him appeared the head of the officer , almost as pale as himself . 
Good heavens , Monseigneur , what is going on there ? whispered the officer . 
Something very terrible , to a certainty , replied the other . 
And here is Cornelius , whom they now likewise drag out of the carriage , Cornelius , who is already quite broken and mangled by the torture . 
Only look , look ! Indeed , it is Cornelius , and no mistake . 
He rose once more , but immediately fell again . 
The young man a thing which would have been thought impossible grew even paler than before , and his eyes were for a moment veiled behind the lids . 
But the young man had already opened his eyes again . 
To be sure , he said . 
These people are really implacable . 
It does no one good to offend them . 
John uttered a cry of agony and grief , and put one of his hands before his eyes . 
Oh , you close your eyes , do you ? said one of the soldiers of the burgher guard well , I shall open them for you . 
And saying this he stabbed him with his pike in the face , and the blood spurted forth . 
But the gun did not go off . 
The fellow then turned his musket round , and , taking it by the barrel with both hands , struck John de Witt down with the butt end . 
There remained little more to see a third murderer fired a pistol with the muzzle to his face and this time the shot took effect , blowing out his brains . 
John de Witt fell to rise no more . 
Ah ! sir , said the gatekeeper , do you bring me the key ? Yes , my man , here it is . 
It is most unfortunate that you did not bring me that key only one quarter of an hour sooner , said the gatekeeper , with a sigh . 
And why that ? asked the other . 
Because I might have opened the gate to Mynheers de Witt whereas , finding the gate locked , they were obliged to retrace their steps . 
Gate ! gate ! cried a voice which seemed to be that of a man in a hurry . 
The Prince , turning round , observed Captain Van Deken . 
Is that you , Captain ? he said . 
You are not yet out of the Hague ? This is executing my orders very slowly . 
Monseigneur , replied the Captain , this is the third gate at which I have presented myself the other two were closed . 
Well , this good man will open this one for you do it , my friend . 
As it were to make up for his fault , he hastened to open the gate , which swung creaking on its hinges . 
Will Monseigneur avail himself of my horse ? asked the Captain . 
I thank you , Captain , I shall use my own steed , which is waiting for me close at hand . 
William , without touching the stirrup , vaulted into the saddle of the led horse , and , setting his spurs into its flanks , started off for the Leyden road . 
Having reached it , he turned round and beckoned to the Captain who was far behind , to ride by his side . 
Certainly , it would have been better , said William , if what did happen had not happened . 
But it cannot be helped now , and we have had nothing to do with it . 
Let us push on , Captain , that we may arrive at Alphen before the message which the States General are sure to send to me to the camp . 
Craeke from afar off recognised Dort , the smiling city , at the foot of a hill dotted with windmills . 
The outlines of its roof were merging in the yellow foliage of a curtain of poplar trees , the whole habitation having for background a dark grove of gigantic elms . 
This happy mortal , rara avis , was Dr . 
van Baerle , the godson of Cornelius de Witt . 
Cornelius then remained alone in his large house . 
Van Baerle began by expending his yearly revenue in laying the groundwork of his collection , after which he broke in upon his new guilders to bring it to perfection . 
Cornelius , at that period , as William of Orange said , began to enjoy the most perfect unpopularity . 
To his fellow citizens , the good burghers of Dort , however , he did not appear in the light of a criminal who deserved to be hung . 
Van Baerle was truly beloved by his servants and labourers nor had he any conception that there was in this world a man who wished ill to another . 
is the first word in the Cingalese tongue which was ever used to designate that masterpiece of floriculture which is now called the tulip . 
Boxtel had not the good fortune of being rich , like Van Baerle . 
Isaac knew the temperature of his frames to the twentieth part of a degree . 
He knew the strength of the current of air , and tempered it so as to adapt it to the wave of the stems of his flowers . 
His productions also began to meet with the favour of the public . 
They were beautiful , nay , distinguished . 
Several fanciers had come to see Boxtel's tulips . 
After all , this mishap appeared to Boxtel of no great consequence . 
Van Baerle was but a painter , a sort of fool who tried to reproduce and disfigure on canvas the wonders of nature . 
The painter , he thought , had raised his studio by a story to get better light , and thus far he had only been in the right . 
Mynheer van Baerle was a painter , as Mynheer Boxtel was a tulip grower he wanted somewhat more sun for his paintings , and he took half a degree from his neighbour's tulips . 
The law was for Van Baerle , and Boxtel had to abide by it . 
He therefore felt almost grateful to Cornelius van Baerle for having given him a screen gratis . 
Maybe this was not quite in accordance with the true state of things in general , and of Isaac Boxtel's feelings in particular . 
It is certainly astonishing what rich comfort great minds , in the midst of momentous catastrophes , will derive from the consolations of philosophy . 
Boxtel was quite amazed when he saw all this apparatus , but he was not as yet aware of the full extent of his misfortune . 
Van Baerle was known to be fond of everything that pleases the eye . 
, and the whole surrounded by a border of turf to keep the soil in its place . 
There could not be a doubt that Van Baerle had become a tulip grower . 
And thus it was not for the sake of painted tulips , but for real ones , that Van Baerle took from him half a degree of warmth . 
Boxtel , as the reader may see , was not possessed of the spirit of Porus , who , on being conquered by Alexander , consoled himself with the celebrity of his conqueror . 
Thus Boxtel , with jealous foreboding , became the prophet of his own misfortune . 
And , after having made this melancholy discovery , he passed the most wretched night imaginable . 
Chapter The Hatred of a Tulip fancier From that moment Boxtel's interest in tulips was no longer a stimulus to his exertions , but a deadening anxiety . 
Henceforth all his thoughts ran only upon the injury which his neighbour would cause him , and thus his favourite occupation was changed into a constant source of misery to him . 
Van Baerle , as may easily be imagined , had no sooner begun to apply his natural ingenuity to his new fancy , than he succeeded in growing the finest tulips . 
From that premise the school of tulip fanciers , the most exclusive of all schools , worked out the following syllogism in the same year To despise flowers is to offend God . 
The more beautiful the flower is , the more does one offend God in despising it . 
The tulip is the most beautiful of all flowers . 
Therefore , he who despises the tulip offends God beyond measure . 
We cannot doubt that in such a cause Boxtel , though he was Van Baerle's deadly foe , would have marched under the same banner with him . 
And also , if Dante had wished for a new type to be added to his characters of the Inferno , he might have chosen Boxtel during the period of Van Baerle's successes . 
When the evil spirit has once taken hold of the heart of man , it urges him on , without letting him stop . 
Thus Boxtel soon was no longer content with seeing Van Baerle . 
He wanted to see his flowers , too he had the feelings of an artist , the master piece of a rival engrossed his interest . 
He considered a long time , and at last his meditations were crowned with success . 
The mists of the morning chilled his frame , but he did not feel the cold , the hope of revenge keeping his blood at fever heat . 
The chagrin of his rival was to pay for all the inconvenience which he incurred himself . 
He ran up to them with blanched cheek . 
They raised proudly their noble heads above the corpses of their slain companions . 
Van Baerle could not imagine the cause of the mishap , which , fortunately , was of far less consequence than it might have been . 
On making inquiries , he learned that the whole night had been disturbed by terrible caterwaulings . 
The tulip growing world , however , was thrown by it into a state of most active commotion . 
Van Baerle was one of the tulip growers who were struck with the idea Boxtel thought of it in the light of a speculation . 
Boxtel , once more worsted by the superiority of his hated rival , was now completely disgusted with tulip growing , and , being driven half mad , devoted himself entirely to observation . 
But the most curious part of the operations was not performed in the garden . 
He beheld him sifting his seeds , and soaking them in liquids which were destined to modify or to deepen their colours . 
For , strange to say , the love and interest of horticulture had not deadened in Isaac his fierce envy and thirst of revenge . 
All this hubbub excited the attention of Boxtel , who was just taking his meal by his fireside . 
This telescope had not been of great service to him since the autumn of . 
The tulips , like true daughters of the East , averse to cold , do not abide in the open ground in winter . 
They need the shelter of the house , the soft bed on the shelves , and the congenial warmth of the stove . 
Van Baerle , therefore , passed the whole winter in his laboratory , in the midst of his books and pictures . 
Never had any of his servants been bold enough to set his foot there . 
At the mere mention of the dry room , therefore , the servants who were carrying the lights respectfully fell back . 
The envious spy was watching more intently than ever . 
First of all he saw the walls and windows lit up . 
Then two dark figures appeared . 
One of them , tall , majestic , stern , sat down near the table on which Van Baerle had placed the taper . 
In this figure , Boxtel recognised the pale features of Cornelius de Witt , whose long hair , parted in front , fell over his shoulders . 
He therefore came to the conclusion that the parcel contained simply some papers , and that these papers were relating to politics . 
Boxtel had not been mistaken in his supposition . 
Little dreaming of the jealous hatred of his neighbour , Van Baerle had proceeded step by step towards gaining the prize offered by the Horticultural Society of Haarlem . 
I shall find the black tulip , said Cornelius to himself , whilst detaching the suckers . 
I shall obtain the hundred thousand guilders offered by the Society . 
It is therefore settled I shall give the hundred thousand guilders of the Haarlem prize to the poor . 
And yet Here Cornelius stopped and heaved a sigh . 
But , alas ! these are no thoughts for the present times , when muskets , standards , proclamations , and beating of drums are the order of the day . 
Van Baerle raised his eyes to heaven and sighed again . 
On their skin you cannot even distinguish the circulating veins with the naked eye . 
Certainly , certainly , not a light spot will disfigure the tulip which I have called into existence . 
And by what name shall we call this offspring of my sleepless nights , of my labour and my thought ? Tulipa nigra Barlaensis ? Yes Barlaensis a fine name . 
'Tulipa nigra Barlaensis ! 'Why Barlaensis ? 'After its grower , Van Baerle , will be the answer . 
'And who is this Van Baerle ? 'It is the same who has already produced five new tulips the Jane , the John de Witt , the Cornelius de Witt , etc . 
Well , that is what I call my ambition . 
It will cause tears to no one . 
And people will talk of my Tulipa nigra Barlaensis when perhaps my godfather , this sublime politician , is only known from the tulip to which I have given his name . 
Then , with the remaining fifty thousand guilders , I shall make experiments . 
With them I shall succeed in imparting scent to the tulip . 
Oh the admirable bulbs ! Thus Cornelius indulged in the delights of contemplation , and was carried away by the sweetest dreams . 
Suddenly the bell of his cabinet was rung much more violently than usual . 
Cornelius , startled , laid his hands on his bulbs , and turned round . 
Who is here ? he asked . 
Sir , answered the servant , it is a messenger from the Hague . 
A messenger from the Hague ! What does he want ? Sir , it is Craeke . 
Craeke ! the confidential servant of Mynheer John de Witt ? Good , let him wait . 
I cannot wait , said a voice in the lobby . 
And at the same time forcing his way in , Craeke rushed into the dry room . 
All right ! all right ! my dear Craeke , said Cornelius , stretching his arm under the table for the bulb your paper shall be read , indeed it shall . 
Then , examining the bulb which he held in the hollow of his hand , he said Well , here is one of them uninjured . 
That confounded Craeke ! thus to rush into my dry room let us now look after the other . 
He at once felt the other bulb . 
Well ! asked Cornelius , foreboding some mischief from the double breach of the strict rule of his house . 
Oh , sir , fly ! fly quick ! cried the servant . 
Fly ! and what for ? Sir , the house is full of the guards of the States . 
What do they want ? They want you . 
What for ? To arrest you . 
Arrest me ? arrest me , do you say ? Yes , sir , and they are headed by a magistrate . 
What's the meaning of all this ? said Van Baerle , grasping in his hands the two bulbs , and directing his terrified glance towards the staircase . 
They are coming up ! they are coming up ! cried the servant . 
Jump out of the window . 
Twenty five feet from the ground ! But you will fall on six feet of soft soil ! Yes , but I should fall on my tulips . 
Never mind , jump out . 
At this moment they saw across the banister of the staircase the points of the halberds of the soldiers rising . 
The housekeeper raised her hands to heaven . 
As to Cornelius van Baerle , it must be stated to his honour , not as a man , but as a tulip fancier , his only thought was for his inestimable bulbs . 
At this very moment the soldiers , preceded by a magistrate , entered the room . 
I am that person , Master van Spennen , answered Cornelius , politely , to his judge , and you know it very well . 
Then give up to us the seditious papers which you secrete in your house . 
The seditious papers ! repeated Cornelius , quite dumfounded at the imputation . 
Now don't look astonished , if you please . 
I vow to you , Master van Spennen , Cornelius replied , that I am completely at a loss to understand what you want . 
A sudden light came into the mind of Cornelius . 
Halloa ! said Van Spennen , you begin now to remember , don't you ? Indeed I do , but you spoke of seditious papers , and I have none of that sort . 
You deny it then ? Certainly I do . 
The magistrate turned round and took a rapid survey of the whole cabinet . 
Where is the apartment you call your dry room ? he asked . 
The very same where you now are , Master van Spennen . 
The magistrate cast a glance at a small note at the top of his papers . 
All right , he said , like a man who is sure of his ground . 
Cornelius , said the judge , in the name of the States , I order you to open this drawer , and to give up to me the papers which it contains . 
Saying this , the judge pointed with his finger to the third drawer of the press , near the fireplace . 
In this very drawer , indeed the papers deposited by the Warden of the Dikes with his godson were lying a proof that the police had received very exact information . 
Ah ! you will not , said Van Spennen , when he saw Cornelius standing immovable and bewildered , then I shall open the drawer myself . 
How's that ! follow you ? cried the Doctor . 
Yes , sir , for in the name of the States I arrest you . 
Arrests were not as yet made in the name of William of Orange he had not been Stadtholder long enough for that . 
Arrest me ! cried Cornelius but what have I done ? That's no affair of mine , Doctor you will explain all that before your judges . 
Where ? At the Hague . 
Chapter An Invasion The incident just related was , as the reader has guessed before this , the diabolical work of Mynheer Isaac Boxtel . 
It will be remembered that , with the help of his telescope , not even the least detail of the private meeting between Cornelius de Witt and Van Baerle had escaped him . 
But there is this terrible thing in evil thoughts , that evil minds soon grow familiar with them . 
Besides this , Mynheer Isaac Boxtel encouraged himself with the following sophism Cornelius de Witt is a bad citizen , as he is charged with high treason , and arrested . 
I , on the contrary , am a good citizen , as I am not charged with anything in the world , as I am as free as the air of heaven . 
Boxtel was quite aware of the progress which Van Baerle had made towards producing the grand black tulip . 
It was just this certainty of Cornelius van Baerle that caused the fever which raged in the heart of Isaac Boxtel . 
Awake , he thought of nothing but the grand black tulip asleep , he dreamed of it . 
At last , on the th of August , about two o'clock in the afternoon , the temptation grew so strong , that Mynheer Isaac was no longer able to resist it . 
Accordingly , he wrote an anonymous information , the minute exactness of which made up for its want of authenticity , and posted his letter . 
Never did a venomous paper , slipped into the jaws of the bronze lions at Venice , produce a more prompt and terrible effect . 
On the same evening the letter reached the principal magistrate , who without a moment's delay convoked his colleagues early for the next morning . 
He knew too well what was about to happen in the house of the poor doctor to feel any desire to look into it . 
He did not even get up when his only servant who envied the lot of the servants of Cornelius just as bitterly as Boxtel did that of their master entered his bedroom . 
He said to the man , I shall not get up to day , I am ill . 
His servant entered the room Boxtel hid himself under the counterpane . 
Well , Mynheer Boxtel , at this moment your neighbour Cornelius van Baerle is arrested for high treason . 
Nonsense ! Boxtel muttered , with a faltering voice the thing is impossible . 
Faith , sir , at any rate that's what people say and , besides , I have seen Judge van Spennen with the archers entering the house . 
Well , if you have seen it with your own eyes , that's a different case altogether . 
At all events , said the servant , I shall go and inquire once more . 
Be you quiet , sir , I shall let you know all about it . 
Boxtel contented himself with signifying his approval of the zeal of his servant by dumb show . 
The man went out , and returned in half an hour . 
Oh , sir , all that I told you is indeed quite true . 
How so ? Mynheer van Baerle is arrested , and has been put into a carriage , and they are driving him to the Hague . 
To the Hague ! Yes , to the Hague , and if what people say is true , it won't do him much good . 
And what do they say ? Boxtel asked . 
Faith , sir , they say but it is not quite sure that by this hour the burghers must be murdering Mynheer Cornelius and Mynheer John de Witt . 
Oh , muttered , or rather growled Boxtel , closing his eyes from the dreadful picture which presented itself to his imagination . 
And , in reality , Isaac Boxtel was very sick , like a man who has murdered another . 
But he had murdered his man with a double object the first was attained , the second was still to be attained . 
It was the night which Boxtel had looked forward to . 
As soon as it was dark he got up . 
He then climbed into his sycamore . 
He had calculated correctly no one thought of keeping watch over the garden the house and the servants were all in the utmost confusion . 
He heard the clock strike ten , eleven , twelve . 
All was perfectly quiet , not a sound broke the silence of the night one solitary light , that of the housekeeper , was burning in the house . 
He found nothing , and thought he was mistaken . 
In the meanwhile , the cold sweat stood on his brow . 
He felt about close by it , nothing . 
He felt about on the right , and on the left , nothing . 
He felt about in front and at the back , nothing . 
He was nearly mad , when at last he satisfied himself that on that very morning the earth had been disturbed . 
Boxtel could not bring himself to leave the place . 
He dug up with his hands more than ten square feet of ground . 
At last no doubt remained of his misfortune . 
Mad with rage , he returned to his ladder , mounted the wall , drew up the ladder , flung it into his own garden , and jumped after it . 
There he would find them , and , moreover , it was not at all difficult , as the sashes of the dry room might be raised like those of a greenhouse . 
Cornelius had opened them on that morning , and no one had thought of closing them again . 
Everything , therefore , depended upon whether he could procure a ladder of sufficient length , one of twenty five feet instead of ten . 
Boxtel had noticed in the street where he lived a house which was being repaired , and against which a very tall ladder was placed . 
This ladder would do admirably , unless the workmen had taken it away . 
He ran to the house the ladder was there . 
Boxtel put a lighted dark lantern into his pocket , mounted the ladder , and slipped into the dry room . 
On reaching this sanctuary of the florist he stopped , supporting himself against the table his legs failed him , his heart beat as if it would choke him . 
Here it was even worse than in the garden there Boxtel was only a trespasser , here he was a thief . 
However , he took courage again he had not gone so far to turn back with empty hands . 
Chapter The Family Cell It was about midnight when poor Van Baerle was locked up in the prison of the Buytenhof . 
What Rosa foresaw had come to pass . 
The prison was therefore completely deserted . 
Why should people remain in the jail whilst murder was going on at the Tol Hek ? Gryphus came forth trembling behind the courageous Rosa . 
They went to close the great gate , at least as well as it would close , considering that it was half demolished . 
It was easy to see that a hurricane of mighty fury had vented itself upon it . 
About four o'clock a return of the noise was heard , but of no threatening character to Gryphus and his daughter . 
The people were only dragging in the two corpses , which they came back to gibbet at the usual place of execution . 
Rosa hid herself this time also , but only that she might not see the ghastly spectacle . 
At midnight , people again knocked at the gate of the jail , or rather at the barricade which served in its stead it was Cornelius van Baerle whom they were bringing . 
This vision lasted but a moment , much less time than we have taken to describe it . 
Gryphus pointed with his finger to the bed on which the martyr had suffered so much , who on that day had rendered his soul to God . 
Then , taking up his cresset , he quitted the cell . 
On it were suspended two shapeless trunks , which indeed were no more than bleeding skeletons . 
The jailer opened the door , with terrible imprecations against the prisoner who disturbed him at an hour which Master Gryphus was not accustomed to be aroused . 
Well , now , by my soul , he is mad , this new De Witt , he cried , but all those De Witts have the devil in them . 
And , trembling , pale , and gasping for breath , he pointed to the gibbet at the other side of the yard , with the cynical inscription surmounting it . 
Gryphus broke out into a laugh . 
Eh ! eh ! he answered , so , you have read it . 
Well , my good sir , that's what people will get for corresponding with the enemies of his Highness the Prince of Orange . 
The brothers De Witt have been judged by the people , said Gryphus you call that murdered , do you ? well , I call it executed . 
And seeing that the prisoner was not only quiet , but entirely prostrate and senseless , he rushed from the cell , violently slamming the door , and noisily drawing the bolts . 
Useless labour of so many years ! such sweet hopes crushed his discovery was , after all , to lead to naught , just as his own career was to be cut short . 
Here , in his prison , there was not a trace of vegetation , not an atom of soil , not a ray of sunshine . 
At this thought Cornelius fell into a gloomy despair , from which he was only aroused by an extraordinary circumstance . 
What was this circumstance ? We shall inform the reader in our next chapter . 
He then tried to support himself on his arm , but the bone gave way then only he felt the pain , and uttered a cry . 
During all this time the door of the cell stood open and Cornelius found himself almost free . 
Cornelius understood what was passing in the mind of the girl , at the very moment when the suspicion arose in her heart . 
Cornelius blushed , and said , I am but doing my duty as a Christian in helping my neighbour . 
Yes , and affording him your help this evening , you have forgotten the abuse which he heaped on you this morning . 
Oh , sir ! this is more than humanity , this is indeed Christian charity . 
Cornelius cast his eyes on the beautiful girl , quite astonished to hear from the mouth of one so humble such a noble and feeling speech . 
But he had no time to express his surprise . 
Hush , my father , said Rosa , you are unjust to this gentleman , whom I found endeavouring to give you his aid . 
His aid ? Gryphus replied , with a doubtful air . 
It is quite true , master ! I am quite ready to help you still more . 
You ! said Gryphus , are you a medical man ? It was formerly my profession . 
And so you would be able to set my arm ? Perfectly . 
And what would you need to do it ? let us hear . 
Two splinters of wood , and some linen for a bandage . 
Gryphus sat down then , turning towards his daughter , he said , Well , didn't you hear ? go and fetch what is wanted . 
Rosa went down , and immediately after returned with two staves of a small barrel and a large roll of linen bandage . 
Cornelius had made use of the intervening moments to take off the man's coat , and to tuck up his shirt sleeve . 
Is this what you require , sir ? asked Rosa . 
Yes , mademoiselle , answered Cornelius , looking at the things she had brought , yes , that's right . 
Now push this table , whilst I support the arm of your father . 
At the last touch , the jailer fainted a second time . 
Go and fetch vinegar , mademoiselle , said Cornelius we will bathe his temples , and he will recover . 
What do you mean , my pretty child ? said Cornelius . 
But , asked Cornelius , what harm can they do to me ? Look at that gibbet . 
But I am not guilty , said Cornelius . 
Were they guilty whom you see down there gibbeted , mangled , and torn to pieces ? That's true , said Cornelius , gravely . 
And besides , continued Rosa , the people want to find you guilty . 
But whether innocent or guilty , your trial begins to morrow , and the day after you will be condemned . 
Matters are settled very quickly in these times . 
Fly , then that's what I mean . 
What do you say ? I say that I was not able to save Mynheer Cornelius or Mynheer John de Witt , and that I should like to save you . 
Only be quick there , my father is regaining his breath , one minute more , and he will open his eyes , and it will be too late . 
Do you hesitate ? In fact , Cornelius stood immovable , looking at Rosa , yet looking at her as if he did not hear her . 
Don't you understand me ? said the young girl , with some impatience . 
Yes , I do , said Cornelius , but But ? I will not , they would accuse you . 
Never mind , said Rosa , blushing , never mind that . 
You are very good , my dear child , replied Cornelius , but I stay . 
Thereupon , he said in an undertone to Rosa My child , I am innocent , and I shall await my trial with tranquillity and an easy mind . 
Why hush ? My father must not suppose that we have been talking to each other . 
What harm would that do ? What harm ? He would never allow me to come here any more , said Rosa . 
Cornelius received this innocent confidence with a smile he felt as if a ray of good fortune were shining on his path . 
Now , then , what are you chattering there together about ? said Gryphus , rising and supporting his right arm with his left . 
Nothing , said Rosa the doctor is explaining to me what diet you are to keep . 
Diet , diet for me ? Well , my fine girl , I shall put you on diet too . 
Come , off with me , lead the way , and be quick . 
Rosa and Cornelius exchanged glances . 
That of Rosa tried to express , There , you see ? That of Cornelius said , Let it be as the Lord wills . 
Chapter Cornelius van Baerle's Will Rosa had not been mistaken the judges came on the following day to the Buytenhof , and proceeded with the trial of Cornelius van Baerle . 
The examination , however , did not last long , it having appeared on evidence that Cornelius had kept at his house that fatal correspondence of the brothers De Witt with France . 
He did not deny it . 
The only point about which there seemed any difficulty was whether this correspondence had been intrusted to him by his godfather , Cornelius de Witt . 
This confession involved the godson in the crime of the godfather manifest complicity being considered to exist between Cornelius de Witt and Cornelius van Baerle . 
The honest doctor did not confine himself to this avowal , but told the whole truth with regard to his own tastes , habits , and daily life . 
He described his indifference to politics , his love of study , of the fine arts , of science , and of flowers . 
He explained that , since the day when Cornelius de Witt handed to him the parcel at Dort , he himself had never touched , nor even noticed it . 
As far as Craeke was concerned , it was impossible to find him , as he had left Holland . 
The paper also was not very likely to be found , and no one gave himself the trouble to look for it . 
This was Van Baerle's whole defence after which the judges began to deliberate on the verdict . 
They considered that every offshoot of civil discord is mischievous , because it revives the contest which it is the interest of all to put down . 
And herein lies the enormity of the case . 
As this deliberation was a most serious affair , it lasted a full half hour , during which the prisoner was remanded to his cell . 
There the Recorder of the States came to read the sentence to him . 
Master Gryphus was detained in bed by the fever caused by the fracture of his arm . 
His keys passed into the hands of one of his assistants . 
Cornelius listened to the sentence with an expression rather of surprise than sadness . 
After the sentence was read , the Recorder asked him whether he had anything to answer . 
Indeed , I have not , he replied . 
Only I confess that , among all the causes of death against which a cautious man may guard , I should never have supposed this to be comprised . 
On this answer , the Recorder saluted Van Baerle with all that consideration which such functionaries generally bestow upon great criminals of every sort . 
A sob was heard behind the door , and Cornelius turned round to look from whom it came but Rosa , who had foreseen this movement , had fallen back . 
And , continued Cornelius , what hour is appointed ? Twelve o'clock , sir . 
Indeed , said Cornelius , I think I heard the clock strike ten about twenty minutes ago I have not much time to spare . 
Indeed you have not , if you wish to make your peace with God , said the Recorder , bowing to the ground . 
You may ask for any clergyman you please . 
Cornelius saw nothing but the golden brocade cap , tipped with lace , such as the Frisian girls wore he heard nothing but some one whispering into the ear of the turnkey . 
The head dress turned round , and Cornelius beheld the face of Rosa , blanched with grief , and her beautiful eyes streaming with tears . 
She went up to Cornelius , crossing her arms on her heaving breast . 
Oh , sir , sir ! she said , but sobs choked her utterance . 
My good girl , Cornelius replied with emotion , what do you wish ? I may tell you that my time on earth is short . 
I come to ask a favour of you , said Rosa , extending her arms partly towards him and partly towards heaven . 
Come , there's a dear , don't cry any more , and tell me what you want , my pretty Rosa . 
She fell on her knees . 
Forgive my father , she said . 
Your father , your father ! said Cornelius , astonished . 
Yes , he has been so harsh to you but it is his nature , he is so to every one , and you are not the only one whom he has bullied . 
He is punished , my dear Rosa , more than punished , by the accident that has befallen him , and I forgive him . 
I thank you , sir , said Rosa . 
The clergyman whom they have proposed to you ? I have worshipped God all my life , I have worshipped Him in His works , and praised Him in His decrees . 
I am at peace with Him and do not wish for a clergyman . 
Oh , Mynheer Cornelius , speak , speak ! exclaimed Rosa , still bathed in tears . 
Give me your hand , and promise me not to laugh , my dear child . 
Laugh , exclaimed Rosa , frantic with grief , laugh at this moment ! do you not see my tears ? Rosa , you are no stranger to me . 
I have not seen much of you , but that little is enough to make me appreciate your character . 
Rosa felt a shudder creeping over her frame , for , whilst the prisoner pronounced these words , the belfry clock of the Buytenhof struck eleven . 
Yes , yes , let us make haste , he said , you are right , Rosa . 
That was at a time when I did not know that there was anything else to be loved . 
Don't blush , Rosa , nor turn away and even if I were making you a declaration of love , alas ! poor dear , it would be of no more consequence . 
Down there in the yard , there is an instrument of steel , which in sixty minutes will put an end to my boldness . 
Mynheer Cornelius ! Yes , yes , Rosa , you may take them you are not wronging any one , my child . 
I am alone in this world my parents are dead I never had a sister or a brother . 
I have never had a thought of loving any one with what is called love , and if any one has loved me , I have not known it . 
However , you see well , Rosa , that I am abandoned by everybody , as in this sad hour you alone are with me in my prison , consoling and assisting me . 
Don't interrupt me , Rosa dear , I have only a few minutes more . 
The poor girl was nearly choking with her sobs . 
Cornelius took her by the hand . 
Listen to me , he continued I'll tell you how to manage it . 
Go to Dort and ask Butruysheim , my gardener , for soil from my border number six , fill a deep box with it , and plant in it these three bulbs . 
They will flower black , I am quite sure of it . 
You are then to apprise the President of the Haarlem Society . 
He will cause the color of the flower to be proved before a committee and these hundred thousand guilders will be paid to you . 
Rosa heaved a deep sigh . 
Rosa sobbed afresh , and handed to him a book , bound in shagreen , which bore the initials C. W. What is this ? asked the prisoner . 
Alas ! replied Rosa , it is the Bible of your poor godfather , Cornelius de Witt . 
From it he derived strength to endure the torture , and to bear his sentence without flinching . 
I found it in this cell , after the death of the martyr , and have preserved it as a relic . 
To day I brought it to you , for it seemed to me that this book must possess in itself a divine power . 
Cornelius took the Bible , and kissed it reverently . 
With what shall I write ? asked Cornelius . 
There is a pencil in the Bible , said Rosa . 
This was the pencil which John de Witt had lent to his brother , and which he had forgotten to take away with him . 
So may God grant me mercy , and to her health and long life ! Cornelius van Baerle . 
The prisoner then , giving the Bible to Rosa , said , Read . 
Alas ! she answered , I have already told you I cannot read . 
Cornelius then read to Rosa the testament that he had just made . 
The agony of the poor girl almost overpowered her . 
Do you accept my conditions ? asked the prisoner , with a melancholy smile , kissing the trembling hands of the afflicted girl . 
Oh , I don't know , sir , she stammered . 
You don't know , child , and why not ? Because there is one condition which I am afraid I cannot keep . 
Which ? I should have thought that all was settled between us . 
You give me the hundred thousand guilders as a marriage portion , don't you ? And under the condition of my marrying a man whom I love ? Certainly . 
Well , then , sir , this money cannot belong to me . 
I shall never love any one neither shall I marry . 
And , after having with difficulty uttered these words , Rosa almost swooned away in the violence of her grief . 
They are coming to fetch you . 
Oh God ! Oh God ! cried Rosa , wringing her hands . 
And have you nothing more to tell me ? She fell on her knees with her face buried in her hands and became almost senseless . 
I have only to say , that I wish you to preserve these bulbs as a most precious treasure , and carefully to treat them according to the directions I have given you . 
Do it for my sake , and now farewell , Rosa . 
She then put the cherished treasure next her beating heart . 
The noise on the staircase which Cornelius and Rosa had heard was caused by the Recorder , who was coming for the prisoner . 
He was followed by the executioner , by the soldiers who were to form the guard round the scaffold , and by some curious hangers on of the prison . 
Chapter The Execution Cornelius had not three hundred paces to walk outside the prison to reach the foot of the scaffold . 
The dog perhaps knew the condemned prisoners , and only bit those who left as free men . 
The shorter the way from the door of the prison to the foot of the scaffold , the more fully , of course , it was crowded with curious people . 
These were the same who , not satisfied with the blood which they had shed three days before , were now craving for a new victim . 
The scaffold indeed looked like an islet at the confluence of several rivers . 
In the midst of these threats , groans , and yells , Cornelius , very likely in order not to hear them , had buried himself in his own thoughts . 
And what did he think of in his last melancholy journey ? Neither of his enemies , nor of his judges , nor of his executioners . 
It is only one stroke of the axe , said the philosopher to himself , and my beautiful dream will begin to be realised . 
At length the fatal moment arrived , and Cornelius placed his chin on the cold damp block . 
But at this moment his eyes closed involuntarily , to receive more resolutely the terrible avalanche which was about to fall on his head , and to engulf his life . 
A gleam like that of lightning passed across the scaffold it was the executioner raising his sword . 
Van Baerle bade farewell to the great black tulip , certain of awaking in another world full of light and glorious tints . 
Three times he felt , with a shudder , the cold current of air from the knife near his neck , but what a surprise ! he felt neither pain nor shock . 
He saw no change in the colour of the sky , or of the world around him . 
Then suddenly Van Baerle felt gentle hands raising him , and soon stood on his feet again , although trembling a little . 
There was some one by his side , reading a large parchment , sealed with a huge seal of red wax . 
Van Baerle began to be sensible to what was going on around him . 
His Highness , accordingly , had granted him his life . 
Cornelius at first hoped that the pardon would be complete , and that he would be restored to his full liberty and to his flower borders at Dort . 
In this postscript , William of Orange , Stadtholder of Holland , condemned Cornelius van Baerle to imprisonment for life . 
He was not sufficiently guilty to suffer death , but he was too much so to be set at liberty . 
I , said Van Baerle to himself , I am worth much less than Grotius . 
They will hardly give me twelve stivers , and I shall live miserably but never mind , at all events I shall live . 
Then suddenly a terrible thought struck him . 
This vehicle was for the prisoner . 
He was invited to enter it , and he obeyed . 
His last look was towards the Buytenhof . 
He hoped to see at the window the face of Rosa , brightening up again . 
Many had shown themselves eager to see the perfidious blood of the guilty Cornelius flow , but not one had shown such a keen anxiety as the individual just alluded to . 
Boxtel had at first tried to gain over Gryphus to his interest , but the jailer had not only the snarling fierceness , but likewise the fidelity , of a dog . 
The piece which the mastiff had torn from his hose did not discourage Boxtel . 
He came back to the charge , but this time Gryphus was in bed , feverish , and with a broken arm . 
In the meanwhile the sentence had been pronounced . 
Thus Isaac had no more time to bribe any one . 
He therefore clung to the idea which Rosa had suggested he went to the executioner . 
Isaac had not the least doubt that Cornelius would die with the bulbs on his heart . 
But there were two things which Boxtel did not calculate upon Rosa , that is to say , love William of Orange , that is to say , clemency . 
But for Rosa and William , the calculations of the envious neighbour would have been correct . 
But for William , Cornelius would have died . 
But for Rosa , Cornelius would have died with his bulbs on his heart . 
, which , as nobody will deny , was a very handsome investment . 
The headsman , on the other hand , had scarcely anything to do to earn his hundred guilders . 
He needed only , as soon as the execution was over , to allow Mynheer Boxtel to ascend the scaffold with his servants , to remove the inanimate remains of his friend . 
The thing was , moreover , quite customary among the faithful brethren , when one of their masters died a public death in the yard of the Buytenhof . 
A fanatic like Cornelius might very easily have found another fanatic who would give a hundred guilders for his remains . 
The executioner also readily acquiesced in the proposal , making only one condition , that of being paid in advance . 
Boxtel , like the people who enter a show at a fair , might be disappointed , and refuse to pay on going out . 
Boxtel paid in advance , and waited . 
Had he been able to get at Van Baerle , he would have pounced upon him and strangled him . 
Boxtel , quite overcome by his frenzy , fell from the stone upon some Orangemen , who , like him , were sorely vexed at the turn which affairs had taken . 
Blows were , however , nothing to him . 
He wanted to run after the coach which was carrying away Cornelius with his bulbs . 
Chapter The Pigeons of Dort It was indeed in itself a great honour for Cornelius van Baerle to be confined in the same prison which had once received the learned master Grotius . 
But on arriving at the prison he met with an honour even greater . 
The cell had an historical character . 
Cornelius felt himself perfectly indifferent as to the place where he had to lead an existence which was little more than vegetation . 
There were only two things now for which he cared , and the possession of which was a happiness enjoyed only in imagination . 
A flower , and a woman both of them , as he conceived , lost to him for ever . 
Fortunately the good doctor was mistaken . 
In his prison cell the most adventurous life which ever fell to the lot of any tulip fancier was reserved for him . 
These pigeons , Van Baerle said to himself , are coming from Dort , and consequently may return there . 
By fastening a little note to the wing of one of these pigeons , one might have a chance to send a message there . 
Then , after a few moments' consideration , he exclaimed , I will do it . 
a day and , after a month of unsuccessful attempts , he at last caught a female bird . 
She returned in the evening . 
She had preserved the note . 
Thus it went on for fifteen days , at first to the disappointment , and then to the great grief , of Van Baerle . 
On the sixteenth day , at last , she came back without it . 
In this letter there was a little note enclosed for Rosa . 
Van Baerle's nurse had received the letter in the following way . 
Leaving Dort , Mynheer Isaac Boxtel had abandoned , not only his house , his servants , his observatory , and his telescope , but also his pigeons . 
The servant , having been left without wages , first lived on his little savings , and then on his master's pigeons . 
Seeing this , the pigeons emigrated from the roof of Isaac Boxtel to that of Cornelius van Baerle . 
The nurse was a kind hearted woman , who could not live without something to love . 
This being just double their value , the man was very glad to close the bargain , and the nurse found herself in undisputed possession of the pigeons of her master's envious neighbour . 
In the course of their wanderings , these pigeons with others visited the Hague , Loewestein , and Rotterdam , seeking variety , doubtless , in the flavour of their wheat or hempseed . 
Chance , or rather God , for we can see the hand of God in everything , had willed that Cornelius van Baerle should happen to hit upon one of these very pigeons . 
The note , as we have said , had reached Van Baerle's nurse . 
He put his hand on his heart , and listened . 
It was the sweet harmonious voice of Rosa . 
He rose , listened once more , and bent forward towards the door . 
Yes , they were indeed the accents which had fallen so sweetly on his heart at the Hague . 
Your father ? Yes , he is in the courtyard at the bottom of the staircase , receiving the instructions of the Governor he will presently come up . 
The instructions of the Governor ? Listen to me , I'll try to tell you all in a few words . 
The Prince could not have suspected my object had he known it , he would have refused my request , but as it is he granted it . 
And so you are here ? As you see . 
And thus I shall see you every day ? As often as I can manage it . 
Oh , Rosa , my beautiful Rosa , do you love me a little ? A little ? she said , you make no great pretensions , Mynheer Cornelius . 
Cornelius tenderly stretched out his hands towards her , but they were only able to touch each other with the tips of their fingers through the wire grating . 
Here is my father , said she . 
Rosa then abruptly drew back from the door , and ran to meet old Gryphus , who made his appearance at the top of the staircase . 
Chapter The Little Grated Window Gryphus was followed by the mastiff . 
The turnkey took the animal round the jail , so that , if needs be , he might recognize the prisoners . 
Father , said Rosa , here is the famous prison from which Mynheer Grotius escaped . 
You know Mynheer Grotius ? Oh , yes , that rogue Grotius , a friend of that villain Barneveldt , whom I saw executed when I was a child . 
Ah ! so Grotius and that's the chamber from which he escaped . 
Well , I'll answer for it that no one shall escape after him in my time . 
And thus opening the door , he began in the dark to talk to the prisoner . 
But the fair Rosa called him to her side . 
Well , my master , said Gryphus , holding up his lantern to throw a little light around , you see in me your new jailer . 
I am head turnkey , and have all the cells under my care . 
I am not vicious , but I'm not to be trifled with , as far as discipline goes . 
My good Master Gryphus , I know you perfectly well , said the prisoner , approaching within the circle of light cast around by the lantern . 
Halloa ! that's you , Mynheer van Baerle , said Gryphus . 
That's you well , I declare , it's astonishing how people do meet . 
Now , that's just it , he said , people always make blunders in politics . 
His Highness has granted you your life I'm sure I should never have done so . 
Don't say so , replied Cornelius why not ? Because you are the very man to conspire again . 
You learned people have dealings with the devil . 
Are you dissatisfied with the manner in which I have set your arm , or with the price that I asked you ? said Cornelius , laughing . 
On the contrary , growled the jailer , you have set it only too well . 
There is some witchcraft in this . 
, 'I laugh at the devil . 
But if you laugh at the devil , Master Gryphus , you ought with so much more reason to laugh at learned people . 
Ah , learned people , learned people ! Why , I would rather have to guard ten soldiers than one scholar . 
They keep sober , spend nothing , and have their heads always clear to make conspiracies . 
But I tell you , at the very outset , it won't be such an easy matter for you to conspire . 
First of all , you will have no books , no paper , and no conjuring book . 
It's books that helped Mynheer Grotius to get off . 
I assure you , Master Gryphus , replied Van Baerle , that if I have entertained the idea of escaping , I most decidedly have it no longer . 
Well , well , said Gryphus , just look sharp that's what I shall do also . 
But , for all that , I say his Highness has made a great mistake . 
Not to have cut off my head ? thank you , Master Gryphus . 
Just so , look whether the Mynheer de Witt don't keep very quiet now . 
That's very shocking what you say now , Master Gryphus , cried Van Baerle , turning away his head to conceal his disgust . 
You forget that one of those unfortunate gentlemen was my friend , and the other my second father . 
Yes , but I also remember that the one , as well as the other , was a conspirator . 
And , moreover , I am speaking from Christian charity . 
Oh , indeed ! explain that a little to me , my good Master Gryphus . 
I do not quite understand it . 
Thank you for the promise , Master Gryphus . 
And whilst the prisoner smiled ironically at the old jailer , Rosa , from the outside , answered by a bright smile , which carried sweet consolation to the heart of Van Baerle . 
Gryphus stepped towards the window . 
It was still light enough to see , although indistinctly , through the gray haze of the evening , the vast expanse of the horizon . 
What view has one from here ? asked Gryphus . 
Why , a very fine and pleasant one , said Cornelius , looking at Rosa . 
Yes , yes , too much of a view , too much . 
Halloa ! what's this ? cried Gryphus . 
My pigeons , answered Cornelius . 
So , here we have a breach of the rules already , replied Gryphus . 
Pigeons ! ah , young man , young man ! I'll tell you one thing , that before to morrow is over , your pigeons will boil in my pot . 
First of all you should catch them , Master Gryphus . 
You won't allow these pigeons to be mine ! Well , I vow they are even less yours than mine . 
Omittance is no acquittance , growled the jailer , and I shall certainly wring their necks before twenty four hours are over you may be sure of that . 
Whilst giving utterance to this ill natured promise , Gryphus put his head out of the window to examine the nest . 
This gave Van Baerle time to run to the door , and squeeze the hand of Rosa , who whispered to him , At nine o'clock this evening . 
Rather than expose them to the tender mercies of his bullying jailer , he drove away for ever those gentle messengers to whom he owed the happiness of having seen Rosa again . 
He waited eagerly to hear the clock of the tower of Loewestein strike nine . 
The shutter opened on the outside . 
Here I am , said Rosa , out of breath from running up the stairs , here I am . 
Oh , my good Rosa . 
You are then glad to see me ? Can you ask ? But how did you contrive to get here ? tell me . 
My father falls asleep every evening almost immediately after his supper I then make him lie down , a little stupefied with his gin . 
Don't say anything about it , because , thanks to this nap , I shall be able to come every evening and chat for an hour with you . 
Oh , I thank you , Rosa , dear Rosa . 
Saying these words , Cornelius put his face so near the little window that Rosa withdrew hers . 
I have brought back to you your bulbs . 
Cornelius's heart leaped with joy . 
He had not yet dared to ask Rosa what she had done with the precious treasure which he had intrusted to her . 
They would have belonged to me after your death , but , fortunately , you are alive now . 
When I looked at the Bible of your godfather Cornelius , I was resolved to bring back to you your bulbs , only I did not know how to accomplish it . 
Oh , how we wept together ! But your letter only confirmed me the more in my resolution . 
I then left for Leyden , and the rest you know . 
Rosa , however , drew back as before . 
I kept the paper in my hands , which spoke to other people , and which was dumb to poor stupid me . 
So you have often regretted not being able to read , said Cornelius . 
I should just like to know on what occasions . 
Troth , she said , laughing , to read all the letters which were written to me . 
Oh , you received letters , Rosa ? By hundreds . 
Since a certain time ! exclaimed Cornelius , with a look beaming with love and joy . 
Rosa cast down her eyes , blushing . 
In her sweet confusion , she did not observe the lips of Cornelius , which , alas ! only met the cold wire grating . 
Yet , in spite of this obstacle , they communicated to the lips of the young girl the glowing breath of the most tender kiss . 
At this sudden outburst of tenderness , Rosa grew very pale , perhaps paler than she had been on the day of the execution . 
She uttered a plaintive sob , closed her fine eyes , and fled , trying in vain to still the beating of her heart . 
And thus Cornelius was again alone . 
Rosa had fled so precipitately , that she completely forgot to return to Cornelius the three bulbs of the Black Tulip . 
Chapter Master and Pupil The worthy Master Gryphus , as the reader may have seen , was far from sharing the kindly feeling of his daughter for the godson of Cornelius de Witt . 
There being only five prisoners at Loewestein , the post of turnkey was not a very onerous one , but rather a sort of sinecure , given after a long period of service . 
But the worthy jailer , in his zeal , had magnified with all the power of his imagination the importance of his office . 
To him Cornelius had swelled to the gigantic proportions of a criminal of the first order . 
He looked upon him , therefore , as the most dangerous of all his prisoners . 
He watched all his steps , and always spoke to him with an angry countenance punishing him for what he called his dreadful rebellion against such a clement prince as the Stadtholder . 
Three times a day he entered Van Baerle's cell , expecting to find him trespassing but Cornelius had ceased to correspond , since his correspondent was at hand . 
Rosa , in fact , had promised to come and see him every evening , and from the first evening she had kept her word . 
On the following evening she went up as before , with the same mysteriousness and the same precaution . 
Only she had this time resolved within herself not to approach too near the grating . 
But to the great astonishment of Rosa , Van Baerle pushed back her white hand with the tips of his fingers . 
The young man had been considering about the matter . 
Listen to me , he said . 
I think we should risk too much by embarking our whole fortune in one ship . 
Let us , therefore , take every possible precaution , so that in case of a failure we may not have anything to reproach ourselves with . 
I will now tell you the way I have traced out for us . 
I will explain to you , Rosa , he said . 
I dare say you have in this fortress a small garden , or some courtyard , or , if not that , at least some terrace . 
We have a very fine garden , said Rosa , it runs along the edge of the Waal , and is full of fine old trees . 
Could you bring me some soil from the garden , that I may judge ? I will do so to morrow . 
Take some from a sunny spot , and some from a shady , so that I may judge of its properties in a dry and in a moist state . 
It is sure to flower , if you tend it according to my directions . 
I will not lose sight of it for a minute . 
You will give me another , which I will try to grow here in my cell , and which will help me to beguile those long weary hours when I cannot see you . 
I confess to you I have very little hope for the latter one , and I look beforehand on this unfortunate bulb as sacrificed to my selfishness . 
However , the sun sometimes visits me . 
I will bring you the soil to morrow , and you will choose it for your bulb and for mine . 
As to that in which yours is to grow , I shall have several journeys to convey it to you , as I cannot bring much at a time . 
There is no hurry for it , dear Rosa our tulips need not be put into the ground for a month at least . 
So you see we have plenty of time before us . 
Only I hope that , in planting your bulb , you will strictly follow all my instructions . 
I promise you I will . 
You will listen at night whether our garden is not resorted to by cats . 
A couple of those untoward animals laid waste two of my borders at Dort . 
On moonlight nights have you ever looked at your garden , my dear child ? The window of my sleeping room overlooks it . 
Well , on moonlight nights you will observe whether any rats come out from the holes in the wall . 
The rats are most mischievous by their gnawing everything and I have heard unfortunate tulip growers complain most bitterly of Noah for having put a couple of rats in the ark . 
I will observe , and if there are cats or rats You will apprise me of it , that's right . 
And , moreover , Van Baerle , having become mistrustful in his captivity , continued , there is an animal much more to be feared than even the cat or the rat . 
No one ever enters the garden but myself . 
Thank you , thank you , my dear Rosa . 
All the joy of my life has still to come from you . 
In this pretty little hand , of which the coquettish damsel was particularly proud , was the bulb . 
Cornelius kissed most tenderly the tips of her fingers . 
Rosa withdrew with the other two suckers , pressing them to her heart . 
However that may have been , from that moment life became sweet , and again full of interest to the prisoner . 
Rosa , as we have seen , had returned to him one of the suckers . 
A large jug , which Cornelius had skilfully broken , did service as a flower pot . 
He half filled it , and mixed the earth of the garden with a small portion of dried river mud , a mixture which formed an excellent soil . 
Then , at the beginning of April , he planted his first sucker in that jug . 
Not a day passed on which Rosa did not come to have her chat with Cornelius . 
They therefore began to chat also about other things , and the tulip fancier found out to his great astonishment what a vast range of subjects a conversation may comprise . 
Only Rosa had made it a habit to keep her pretty face invariably six inches distant from the grating , having perhaps become distrustful of herself . 
There was one thing especially which gave Cornelius almost as much anxiety as his bulbs a subject to which he always returned the dependence of Rosa on her father . 
Indeed , Van Baerle's happiness depended on the whim of this man . 
I don't think we make such a bad use of it as it is . 
Let us employ it even better , said Rosa , smiling . 
Teach me to read and write . 
I shall make the best of your lessons , believe me and , in this way , we shall never be separated any more , except by our own will . 
Oh , then , we have an eternity before us , said Cornelius . 
Rosa smiled , and quietly shrugged her shoulders . 
And yours Rosa ? Oh , I have done things on a large scale , and according to your directions . 
Now , let me hear , Rosa , what you have done , said Cornelius , with as tender an anxiety as he had lately shown to herself . 
Well done , Rosa , well done . 
All true , all true , exclaimed Cornelius , clapping his hands with joy , you are a good pupil , Rosa , and you are sure to gain your hundred thousand guilders . 
Don't forget , said Rosa , smiling , that your pupil , as you call me , has still other things to learn besides the cultivation of tulips . 
Yes , yes , and I am as anxious as you are , Rosa , that you should learn to read . 
When shall we begin ? At once . 
Why to morrow ? Because to day our hour is expired , and I must leave you . 
Already ? But what shall we read ? Oh , said Rosa , I have a book , a book which I hope will bring us luck . 
On the following evening Rosa returned with the Bible of Cornelius de Witt . 
Chapter The First Bulb On the following evening , as we have said , Rosa returned with the Bible of Cornelius de Witt . 
Then began between the master and the pupil one of those charming scenes which are the delight of the novelist who has to describe them . 
Rosa's intellect rapidly developed itself under the animating influence of Cornelius , and when the difficulties seemed too arduous , the sympathy of two loving hearts seemed to smooth them away . 
One evening she came half an hour later than usual . 
This was too extraordinary an instance not to call forth at once Cornelius's inquiries after its cause . 
Oh ! do not be angry with me , she said , it is not my fault . 
My father has renewed an acquaintance with an old crony who used to visit him at the Hague , and to ask him to let him see the prison . 
You don't know anything further of him ? asked Cornelius , surprised . 
No , she answered it's only for about a fortnight that my father has taken such a fancy to this friend who is so assiduous in visiting him . 
I don't believe that , said Rosa , smiling if that worthy person is spying after any one , it is certainly not after my father . 
After whom , then ? Me , for instance . 
You ? Why not ? said Rosa , smiling . 
Ah , that's true , Cornelius observed , with a sigh . 
You will not always have suitors in vain this man may become your husband . 
I don't say anything to the contrary . 
What cause have you to entertain such a happy prospect ? Rather say , this fear , Mynheer Cornelius . 
Thank you , Rosa , you are right well , I will say then , this fear ? I have only this reason Tell me , I am anxious to hear . 
This man came several times before to the Buytenhof , at the Hague . 
I remember now , it was just about the time when you were confined there . 
When I left , he left too when I came here , he came after me . 
At the Hague his pretext was that he wanted to see you . 
Go on , Rosa , pray do , that I may guess who that man is , and what he wants . 
Alas , poor Sue ! she would come herself , and use no roundabout ways . 
No , no , continued Cornelius with the exception of my poor old Sue , I have no friends in this world . 
I did not appear to see him , but it was this man . 
He concealed himself and saw me digging the ground , and certainly it was me whom he followed , and me whom he was spying after . 
I could not move my rake , or touch one atom of soil , without his noticing it . 
Oh , yes , yes , he is in love with you , said Cornelius . 
Is he young ? Is he handsome ? Saying this he looked anxiously at Rosa , eagerly waiting for her answer . 
Young ? handsome ? cried Rosa , bursting into a laugh . 
He is hideous to look at crooked , nearly fifty years of age , and never dares to look me in the face , or to speak , except in an undertone . 
And his name ? Jacob Gisels . 
Then you see that , at all events , he does not come after you . 
At any rate , if he loves you , Rosa , which is very likely , as to see you is to love you , at least you don't love him . 
To be sure I don't . 
Then you wish me to keep my mind easy ? I should certainly ask you to do so . 
This small germ has caused me a much greater emotion than the order of his Highness which turned aside the sword already raised at the Buytenhof . 
You hope , then ? said Rosa , smiling . 
Yes , yes , I hope . 
It is still wrapped up in the same paper in which you put it , and just as you gave it me . 
I have laid it at the bottom of my chest under my point lace , which keeps it dry , without pressing upon it . 
But good night , my poor captive gentleman . 
How ? already ? It must be , it must be . 
Coming so late and going so soon . 
My father might grow impatient not seeing me return , and that precious lover might suspect a rival . 
What is it ? asked Van Baerle . 
I thought I heard something . 
What , then ? Something like a step , creaking on the staircase . 
Rosa rushed toward the staircase , and a door was really heard rapidly to close before the young damsel had got down the first ten steps . 
Cornelius was very uneasy about it , but it was after all only a prelude to greater anxieties . 
The flowing day passed without any remarkable incident . 
Gryphus made his three visits , and discovered nothing . 
He never came at the same hours as he hoped thus to discover the secrets of the prisoner . 
The strings by which this was effected he had found means to cover with that moss which generally grows on tiles , or in the crannies of the walls . 
Gryphus suspected nothing , and the device succeeded for eight days . 
Gryphus , perceiving an unknown and consequently a forbidden object in the hands of his prisoner , pounced upon it with the same rapidity as the hawk on its prey . 
What have you got here ? he roared . 
Ah ! have I caught you ? and with this he grabbed in the soil . 
I ? nothing , nothing , cried Cornelius , trembling . 
Ah ! have I caught you ? a jug and earth in it There is some criminal secret at the bottom of all this . 
Oh , my good Master Gryphus , said Van Baerle , imploringly , and anxious as the partridge robbed of her young by the reaper . 
In fact , Gryphus was beginning to dig the soil with his crooked fingers . 
Take care , sir , take care , said Cornelius , growing quite pale . 
Care of what ? Zounds ! of what ? roared the jailer . 
Take care , I say , you will crush it , Master Gryphus . 
And with a rapid and almost frantic movement he snatched the jug from the hands of Gryphus , and hid it like a treasure under his arms . 
He therefore tried to wrest it from him by force . 
Halloa ! said the jailer , furious , here , you see , you are rebelling . 
Leave me my tulip , cried Van Baerle . 
Ah , yes , tulip , replied the old man , we know well the shifts of prisoners . 
But I vow to you Let go , repeated Gryphus , stamping his foot , let go , or I shall call the guard . 
Call whoever you like , but you shall not have this flower except with my life . 
The idea of striking down this spiteful bully passed like lightning through the brain of the tulip fancier . 
One instant more , and he would have flung it on the bald head of old Gryphus . 
Gryphus then understood the danger with which he had been threatened , and he broke out in a volley of the most terrible abuse . 
Indeed , said Cornelius to him , you must be a very mean and spiteful fellow to rob a poor prisoner of his only consolation , a tulip bulb . 
For shame , my father , Rosa chimed in , it is indeed a crime you have committed here . 
Unfortunate me , continued Cornelius , overwhelmed with grief . 
After all , it is but a tulip , Gryphus resumed , as he began to be a little ashamed of himself . 
You may have as many tulips as you like I have three hundred of them in my loft . 
Oh , so ! Gryphus said , in a tone of triumph now there we have it . 
It was not your tulip you cared for . 
There was in that false bulb some witchcraft , perhaps some means of correspondence with conspirators against his Highness who has granted you your life . 
I always said they were wrong in not cutting your head off . 
Father , father ! cried Rosa . 
Chapter Rosa's Lover Rosa had scarcely pronounced these consolatory words when a voice was heard from the staircase asking Gryphus how matters were going on . 
Do you hear , father ? said Rosa . 
What ? Master Jacob calls you , he is uneasy . 
There was such a noise , said Gryphus wouldn't you have thought he would murder me , this doctor ? They are always very troublesome fellows , these scholars . 
Then , pointing with his finger towards the staircase , he said to Rosa Just lead the way , Miss . 
After this he locked the door and called out I shall be with you directly , friend Jacob . 
And certainly the unfortunate prisoner would have fallen ill but for the counterpoise which Providence had granted to his grief , and which was called Rosa . 
In the evening she came back . 
Her first words announced to Cornelius that henceforth her father would make no objection to his cultivating flowers . 
And how do you know that ? the prisoner asked , with a doleful look . 
I know it because he has said so . 
To deceive me , perhaps . 
Ah yes ! but too late . 
This repentance is not of himself . 
Saying this , she smiled in such a way that the little cloud of jealousy which had darkened the brow of Cornelius speedily vanished . 
How was it ? asked the prisoner . 
Cornelius heaved a sigh , which might have been called a groan . 
Had you only seen Master Jacob at that moment ! continued Rosa . 
'You have done that , he cried , 'you have crushed the bulb ? 'Indeed I have . 
'It is infamous , said Master Jacob , 'it is odious ! You have committed a great crime ! My father was quite dumbfounded . 
'Are you mad , too ? he asked his friend . 
Oh , what a worthy man is this Master Jacob ! muttered Cornelius , an honest soul , an excellent heart that he is . 
'You think it was not the only one ? said my father . 
'Very well , we shall search for the others . 
'You will search for the others ? cried Jacob , taking my father by the collar but he immediately loosed him . 
'Perhaps some less precious one than that was ! I quite incautiously replied . 
And what did Jacob say or do at these words ? asked Cornelius . 
At these words , if I must say it , his eyes seemed to flash like lightning . 
But , said Cornelius , that was not all I am sure he said something in his turn . 
This poor Mynheer van Baerle amused himself with this bulb . 
Well , I think it very cruel to take from him the only thing that he could have amused himself with . 
'But , first of all , said my father , 'we ought to know how he has contrived to procure this bulb . 
I turned my eyes away to avoid my father's look but I met those of Jacob . 
It was as if he had tried to read my thoughts at the bottom of my heart . 
Some little show of anger sometimes saves an answer . 
I shrugged my shoulders , turned my back , and advanced towards the door . 
But I was kept by something which I heard , although it was uttered in a very low voice only . 
Jacob said to my father , 'It would not be so difficult to ascertain that . 
Did you say that I have three ? The word certainly struck me just as much as it does you . 
They were both of them so deeply engaged in their conversation that they did not observe my movement . 
Halloa , halloa ! said Cornelius . 
But this Mr. Jacob of yours is a villain , it seems . 
I am afraid he is . 
Tell me , Rosa , continued Cornelius , with a pensive air . 
What ? Did you not tell me that on the day when you prepared your borders this man followed you ? So he did . 
That he glided like a shadow behind the elder trees ? Certainly . 
That not one of your movements escaped him ? Not one , indeed . 
Rosa , said Cornelius , growing quite pale . 
Well ? It was not you he was after . 
Will you make sure of it ? In what manner ? Oh , it would be very easy ! Tell me . 
Go to morrow into the garden manage matters so that Jacob may know , as he did the first time , that you are going there , and that he may follow you . 
Feign to put the bulb into the ground leave the garden , but look through the keyhole of the door and watch him . 
Well , and what then ? What then ? We shall do as he does . 
Oh ! said Rosa , with a sigh , you are very fond of your bulbs . 
To tell the truth , said the prisoner , sighing likewise , since your father crushed that unfortunate bulb , I feel as if part of my own self had been paralyzed . 
Accept two or three , and , along with them , you may grow the third sucker . 
Yes , that would do very well , said Cornelius , knitting his brow if your father were alone , but there is that Master Jacob , who watches all our ways . 
Well , that is true but only think ! you are depriving yourself , as I can easily see , of a very great pleasure . 
She pronounced these words with a smile , which was not altogether without a tinge of irony . 
Cornelius reflected for a moment he evidently was struggling against some vehement desire . 
Be easy , Mynheer Cornelius , said Rosa , with a sweet mixture of melancholy and gravity , be easy your wishes are commands to me . 
Rosa felt her heart sink within her , and her eyes were filling with tears . 
What is it ? asked Cornelius . 
Saying this , she fled . 
Cornelius , after this , passed one of the worst nights he ever had in his life . 
Rosa was vexed with him , and with good reason . 
Perhaps she would never return to see the prisoner , and then he would have no more news , either of Rosa or of his tulips . 
Chapter The Maid and the Flower But poor Rosa , in her secluded chamber , could not have known of whom or of what Cornelius was dreaming . 
From what he had said she was more ready to believe that he dreamed of the black tulip than of her and yet Rosa was mistaken . 
Thus Rosa understood Cornelius's preference of the tulip to herself , but was only so much the more unhappy therefor . 
Rosa therefore applied herself most diligently to reading poor Cornelius de Witt's Bible , on the second fly leaf of which the last will of Cornelius van Baerle was written . 
Poor Rosa ! she was mistaken . 
But Rosa was not aware of it . 
Having finished reading , she took her pen , and began with as laudable diligence the by far more difficult task of writing . 
She had not forgotten one word of the directions given to her by Cornelius , whose speeches she treasured in her heart , even when they did not take the shape of directions . 
He , on his part , awoke deeper in love than ever . 
This thought took more and more hold of him , until at the approach of evening his whole mind was absorbed in it . 
In Cornelius's cell one heard the chimes of the clock of the fortress . 
It struck seven , it struck eight , it struck nine . 
Never did the metal voice vibrate more forcibly through the heart of any man than did the last stroke , marking the ninth hour , through the heart of Cornelius . 
All was then silent again . 
Cornelius put his hand on his heart , to repress as it were its violent palpitation , and listened . 
This was the hour at which Rosa generally used to leave Cornelius . 
The hour had struck , but Rosa had not come . 
Thus then his foreboding had not deceived him Rosa , being vexed , shut herself up in her room and left him to himself . 
Alas ! he thought , I have deserved all this . 
She will come no more , and she is right in staying away in her place I should do just the same . 
Yet notwithstanding all this , Cornelius listened , waited , and hoped until midnight , then he threw himself upon the bed , with his clothes on . 
It was a long and sad night for him , and the day brought no hope to the prisoner . 
Thus Cornelius did not even look at Gryphus . 
And yet he would have been so glad to draw him out , and to inquire about Rosa . 
He even very nearly made this inquiry , strange as it would needs have appeared to her father . 
To tell the truth , there was in all this some selfish hope to hear from Gryphus that his daughter was ill . 
Except on extraordinary occasions , Rosa never came during the day . 
Cornelius therefore did not really expect her as long as the day lasted . 
Gryphus , being little used to this sort of civility on the part of Cornelius , began to suspect that his prisoner was about to try and bribe him . 
Cornelius was now alone once more it was seven o'clock in the evening , and the anxiety of yesterday returned with increased intensity . 
Van Baerle passed the night in an agony of despair . 
It was now just that week in April which the most experienced gardeners point out as the precise time when tulips ought to be planted . 
He had said to Rosa , I shall tell you the day when you are to put the bulb in the ground . 
He had intended to fix , at the vainly hoped for interview , the following day as the time for that momentous operation . 
This was the case on the fourth day . 
He hoped that perhaps he might see , in the light of the April sun , Rosa or the tulip , the two lost objects of his love . 
In the evening , Gryphus took away the breakfast and dinner of Cornelius , who had scarcely touched them . 
On the following day he did not touch them at all , and Gryphus carried the dishes away just as he had brought them . 
Cornelius had remained in bed the whole day . 
Well , said Gryphus , coming down from the last visit , I think we shall soon get rid of our scholar . 
What do you mean ? He doesn't drink , he doesn't eat , he doesn't leave his bed . 
He will get out of it , like Mynheer Grotius , in a chest , only the chest will be a coffin . 
Rosa grew pale as death . 
Ah ! she said to herself , he is uneasy about his tulip . 
On the following morning , when Cornelius got up to drag himself to the window , he perceived a paper which had been slipped under the door . 
Although these few words of Rosa's somewhat soothed the grief of Cornelius , yet he felt not the less the irony which was at the bottom of them . 
Rosa , then , was not ill , she was offended she had not been forcibly prevented from coming , but had voluntarily stayed away . 
Thus Rosa , being at liberty , found in her own will the force not to come and see him , who was dying with grief at not having seen her . 
Cornelius had paper and a pencil which Rosa had brought to him . 
He guessed that she expected an answer , but that she would not come before the evening to fetch it . 
For eight days Cornelius and Rosa had not seen each other . 
Cornelius being , as may easily be imagined , not far off from the door , perceived Rosa , who at last was waiting again for him with her lamp in her hand . 
I saw that you did not eat , said Rosa my father told me that you remained in bed all day . 
I then wrote to calm your uneasiness concerning the fate of the most precious object of your anxiety . 
And I , said Cornelius , I have answered . 
Seeing your return , my dear Rosa , I thought you had received my letter . 
It is true I have received it . 
You cannot this time excuse yourself with not being able to read . 
Not only do you read very fluently , but also you have made marvellous progress in writing . 
Indeed , I have not only received , but also read your note . 
Accordingly I am come to see whether there might not be some remedy to restore you to health . 
Restore me to health ? cried Cornelius but have you any good news to communicate to me ? Saying this , the poor prisoner looked at Rosa , his eyes sparkling with hope . 
Rosa pronounced those few words in a freezing tone , which cut deeply into the heart of Cornelius . 
He did not suspect what lay hidden under this appearance of indifference with which the poor girl affected to speak of her rival , the black tulip . 
Ah ! she said , your tulip has been in such danger . 
Cornelius trembled involuntarily , and showed himself clearly to be caught in the trap , if ever the remark was meant as such . 
Yes , she said , you have guessed the truth that suitor and amorous swain , Jacob , did not come on my account . 
And what did he come for ? Cornelius anxiously asked . 
He came for the sake of the tulip . 
Rosa saw this alarm , and Cornelius guessed , from the expression of her face , in what direction her thoughts were running . 
Oh , pardon me , Rosa ! he said , I know you , and I am well aware of the kindness and sincerity of your heart . 
To you God has given the thought and strength for defending yourself but to my poor tulip , when it is in danger , God has given nothing of the sort . 
On the day , therefore , after that on which I saw you last , and on which you said Cornelius interrupted her . 
Once more , pardon me , Rosa ! he cried . 
I was wrong in saying to you what I said . 
I have asked your pardon for that unfortunate speech before . 
You , too , have been unhappy , Rosa ? I thank you a thousand times for this kind confession . 
And then ? Cornelius asked . 
And then the same shadow glided between the gate and the wall , and once more disappeared behind the elder trees . 
You feigned not to see him , didn't you ? Cornelius asked , remembering all the details of the advice which he had given to Rosa . 
Yes , and I stooped over the border , in which I dug with a spade , as if I was going to put the bulb in . 
And he , what did he do during all this time ? I saw his eyes glisten through the branches of the tree like those of a tiger . 
There you see , there you see ! cried Cornelius . 
Then , after having finished my make believe work , I retired . 
Oh , the wretch ! muttered Cornelius , wiping the cold sweat from his brow . 
Oh , the wretch ! I guessed his intentions . 
But the bulb , Rosa what have you done with it ? It is already rather late to plant it . 
The bulb ? It has been in the ground for these six days . 
Where ? and how ? cried Cornelius . 
Oh ! then it is with you in your bedroom ? said Cornelius , somewhat relieved . 
It is in a good , sound stone pot , just about the size of the jug in which you had planted yours . 
The soil is composed of three parts of common mould , taken from the best spot of the garden , and one of the sweepings of the road . 
And now what is the aspect , Rosa ? At present it has the sun all day long , that is to say when the sun shines . 
That's it ! that's it ! cried Cornelius and you are a perfect gardener , my pretty Rosa . 
But I am afraid the nursing of my tulip will take up all your time . 
Yes , it will , said Rosa but never mind . 
Your tulip is my daughter . 
I shall devote to it the same time as I should to a child of mine , if I were a mother . 
Only by becoming its mother , Rosa added , smilingly , can I cease to be its rival . 
My kind and pretty Rosa ! muttered Cornelius casting on her a glance in which there was much more of the lover than of the gardener , and which afforded Rosa some consolation . 
And it does not yet show leaf No , but I think it will to morrow . 
To morrow ? said Rosa , looking at Cornelius askance . 
I don't know whether I shall be able to come to morrow . 
Good heavens ! said Cornelius , why can't you come to morrow ? Mynheer Cornelius , I have lots of things to do . 
And I have only one , muttered Cornelius . 
Yes , said Rosa , to love your tulip . 
To love you , Rosa . 
Rosa shook her head , after which followed a pause . 
What does all this mean ? asked Rosa . 
You have abandoned me , Miss Rosa , to seek your pleasure elsewhere . 
You have done well , and I will not complain . 
You are displeased , Rosa , my sweet girl , with my loving flowers . 
I am not displeased with your loving them , Mynheer Cornelius , only it makes me sad to think that you love them better than you do me . 
Oh , my dear , dear Rosa ! look how my hands tremble look at my pale cheek , hear how my heart beats . 
It is for you , my love , not for the black tulip . 
Yes , after the black tulip , sighed Rosa , who at last no longer coyly withdrew her warm hands from the grating , as Cornelius most affectionately kissed them . 
Above and before everything in this world , Rosa . 
May I believe you ? As you believe in your own existence . 
Well , then , be it so but loving me does not bind you too much . 
Unfortunately , it does not bind me more than I am bound but it binds you , Rosa , you . 
To what ? First of all , not to marry . 
That's your way , she said you are tyrants all of you . 
You worship a certain beauty , you think of nothing but her . 
But who is the beauty you are talking of , Rosa ? said Cornelius , trying in vain to remember a woman to whom Rosa might possibly be alluding . 
The dark beauty with a slender waist , small feet , and a noble head in short , I am speaking of your flower . 
Who write letters ? They do write . 
In that will you bid me to love and marry a handsome young man of twenty six or eight years . 
But , Rosa , the will was made in the expectation of death , and , thanks to Heaven , I am still alive . 
Well , then , I shall not be after the handsome young man , and I shall come to see you . 
That's it , Rosa , come ! come ! Under one condition . 
Granted beforehand ! That the black tulip shall not be mentioned for the next three days . 
It shall never be mentioned any more , if you wish it , Rosa . 
No , no , the damsel said , laughing , I will not ask for impossibilities . 
And , saying this , she brought her fresh cheek , as if unconsciously , so near the iron grating , that Cornelius was able to touch it with his lips . 
Rosa uttered a little scream , which , however , was full of love , and disappeared . 
Chapter The Second Bulb The night was a happy one , and the whole of the next day happier still . 
During the last few days , the prison had been heavy , dark , and lowering , as it were , with all its weight on the unfortunate captive . 
Its walls were black , its air chilling , the iron bars seemed to exclude every ray of light . 
Halloa ! exclaimed the jailer . 
How are you this morning ? asked Cornelius . 
Gryphus looked at him with a scowl . 
And how is the dog , and Master Jacob , and our pretty Rosa ? Gryphus ground his teeth , saying . 
Thank you , friend Cerberus , said the prisoner you are just in time I am very hungry . 
Oh ! you are hungry , are you ? said Gryphus . 
And why not ? asked Van Baerle . 
The conspiracy seems to thrive , remarked Gryphus . 
What conspiracy ? Very well , I know what I know , Master Scholar just be quiet , we shall be on our guard . 
Be on your guard , friend Gryphus be on your guard as long as you please my conspiracy , as well as my person , is entirely at your service . 
We'll see that at noon . 
Saying this , Gryphus went out . 
At noon ? repeated Cornelius what does that mean ? Well , let us wait until the clock strikes twelve , and we shall see . 
It was very easy for Cornelius to wait for twelve at midday , as he was already waiting for nine at night . 
It struck twelve , and there were heard on the staircase not only the steps of Gryphus , but also those of three or four soldiers , who were coming up with him . 
Gryphus entered , led his men in , and shut the door after them . 
There , now search ! They searched not only the pockets of Cornelius , but even his person yet they found nothing . 
They then searched the sheets , the mattress , and the straw mattress of his bed and again they found nothing . 
Now , Cornelius rejoiced that he had not taken the third sucker under his own care . 
Gryphus would have been sure to ferret it out in the search , and would then have treated it as he did the first . 
And certainly never did prisoner look with greater complacency at a search made in his cell than Cornelius . 
Gryphus retired with the pencil and the two or three leaves of white paper which Rosa had given to Van Baerle , this was the only trophy brought back from the expedition . 
Cornelius burst out laughing , to which Gryphus answered through the grating , Let him laugh that wins . 
The winner that day was Cornelius Rosa came at nine . 
She was without a lantern . 
She needed no longer a light , as she could now read . 
Moreover , the light might betray her , as Jacob was dogging her steps more than ever . 
And lastly , the light would have shown her blushes . 
They spoke of those things which give wings to the hours they spoke of everything except the black tulip . 
At last , when the clock struck ten , they parted as usual . 
Cornelius was happy , as thoroughly happy as a tulip fancier would be to whom one has not spoken of his tulip . 
He found Rosa pretty , good , graceful , and charming . 
But why did Rosa object to the tulip being spoken of ? This was indeed a great defect in Rosa . 
Cornelius confessed to himself , sighing , that woman was not perfect . 
Part of the night he thought of this imperfection that is to say , so long as he was awake he thought of Rosa . 
After having fallen asleep , he dreamed of her . 
But the Rosa of his dreams was by far more perfect than the Rosa of real life . 
Not only did the Rosa of his dreams speak of the tulip , but also brought to him a black one in a china vase . 
Cornelius then awoke , trembling with joy , and muttering , Rosa , Rosa , I love you . 
But Rosa had forbidden it under pain of not returning Rosa had forbidden the least mention of the tulip for three days . 
That meant seventy two hours given to the lover to be sure but it was seventy two hours stolen from the horticulturist . 
Rosa came at the same hour , and Cornelius submitted most heroically to the pangs which the compulsory silence concerning the tulip gave him . 
Well , she said , she is up . 
She ? Well , my daughter , the tulip , said Rosa . 
What ! cried Cornelius , you give me permission , then ? I do , said Rosa , with the tone of an affectionate mother who grants a pleasure to her child . 
Ah , Rosa ! said Cornelius , putting his lips to the grating with the hope of touching a cheek , a hand , a forehead , anything , in short . 
He touched something much better , two warm and half open lips . 
Rosa uttered a slight scream . 
Cornelius understood that he must make haste to continue the conversation . 
He guessed that this unexpected kiss had frightened Rosa . 
Is it growing up straight ? Straight as a rocket , said Rosa . 
How high ? At least two inches . 
Oh , Rosa , take good care of it , and we shall soon see it grow quickly . 
Can I take more care of it ? said she . 
Indeed , I think of nothing else but the tulip . 
Of nothing else , Rosa ? Why , now I shall grow jealous in my turn . 
Oh , you know that to think of the tulip is to think of you I never lose sight of it . 
I see it from my bed , on awaking it is the first object that meets my eyes , and on falling asleep the last on which they rest . 
During the day I sit and work by its side , for I have never left my chamber since I put it there . 
You are right Rosa , it is your dowry , you know . 
Yes , and with it I may marry a young man of twenty six or twenty eight years , whom I shall be in love with . 
Don't talk in that way , you naughty girl . 
That evening Cornelius was one of the happiest of men . 
Rosa allowed him to press her hand in his , and to keep it as long as he would , besides which he might talk of his tulip as much as he liked . 
From that hour every day marked some progress in the growth of the tulip and in the affection of the two young people . 
At one time it was that the leaves had expanded , and at another that the flower itself had formed . 
Great was the joy of Cornelius at this news , and his questions succeeded one another with a rapidity which gave proof of their importance . 
Formed ! exclaimed Cornelius , is it really formed ? It is , repeated Rosa . 
Cornelius trembled with joy , so much so that he was obliged to hold by the grating . 
Good heavens ! he exclaimed . 
Then , turning again to Rosa , he continued his questions . 
Two days after Rosa announced that they were open . 
Open , Rosa ! cried Cornelius . 
Is the involucrum open ? but then one may see and already distinguish Here the prisoner paused , anxiously taking breath . 
Yes , answered Rosa , one may already distinguish a thread of different colour , as thin as a hair . 
And its colour ? asked Cornelius , trembling . 
Oh , answered Rosa , it is very dark ! Brown ? Darker than that . 
Darker , my good Rosa , darker ? Thank you . 
Dark as Dark as the ink with which I wrote to you . 
Cornelius uttered a cry of mad joy . 
Ah ! be quiet , you malicious little creature , be quiet ! For shame ! Do not spoil my pleasure . 
Rosa drew near , not by accident , but intentionally , and Cornelius kissed her tenderly . 
Faith , I shall cull it , if you wish it . 
I know well it is far to Haarlem , but with money you will find a messenger . 
Have you any money , Rosa ? Rosa smiled . 
Oh , yes ! she said . 
I have three hundred guilders . 
Oh , if you have three hundred guilders , you must not send a messenger , Rosa , but you must go to Haarlem yourself . 
But what in the meantime is to become of the flower ? Oh , the flower ! you must take it with you . 
You understand that you must not separate from it for an instant . 
But whilst I am not separating from it , I am separating from you , Mynheer Cornelius . 
Ah ! that's true , my sweet Rosa . 
Well , you will send some one to Haarlem , that's settled really , the matter is wonderful enough for the President to put himself to some trouble . 
He will come himself to Loewestein to see the tulip . 
And to wait until evening to know it , Rosa ! I shall die with impatience . 
Could we not agree about a signal ? I shall do better than that . 
What will you do ? If it opens at night , I shall come and tell you myself . 
Yes , Rosa , let it be so . 
One word of yours , announcing this news to me , will be a double happiness . 
There , ten o'clock strikes , said Rosa , I must now leave you . 
Yes , yes , said Cornelius , go , Rosa , go ! Rosa withdrew , almost melancholy , for Cornelius had all but sent her away . 
It is true that he did so in order that she might watch over his black tulip . 
Chapter The Opening of the Flower The night passed away very sweetly for Cornelius , although in great agitation . 
Every instant he fancied he heard the gentle voice of Rosa calling him . 
He then started up , went to the door , and looked through the grating , but no one was behind it , and the lobby was empty . 
which not only was unknown , but was not even thought possible until then . 
The day passed as the night . 
Night came , and with it Rosa , joyous and cheerful as a bird . 
Well , all is going on prosperously . 
This night , without any doubt , our tulip will be in flower . 
And will it flower black ? Black as jet . 
Without a speck of any other colour . 
and then of what we must do . 
Well ? Well , and I will tell you now what I have decided on . 
The tulip once being in flower , and it being quite certain that it is perfectly black , you must find a messenger . 
If it is no more than that , I have a messenger quite ready . 
Is he safe ? One for whom I will answer , he is one of my lovers . 
No , be quiet , it is the ferryman of Loewestein , a smart young man of twenty five . 
By Jove ! Be quiet , said Rosa , smiling , he is still under age , as you have yourself fixed it from twenty six to twenty eight . 
In fine , do you think you may rely on this young man ? As on myself he would throw himself into the Waal or the Meuse if I bade him . 
You will write to the President of the Horticultural Society , and I am sure he will come . 
But if he tarries ? Well , let us suppose that he tarries one day , or even two but it is impossible . 
A tulip fancier like him will not tarry one hour , not one minute , not one second , to set out to see the eighth wonder of the world . 
But , as I said , if he tarried one or even two days , the tulip will still be in its full splendour . 
And above all , Rosa , before the President has seen it , let it not be seen by any one . 
Alas ! if any one saw the black tulip , it would be stolen . 
But if it opened whilst you were here ? The whimsical little thing would indeed be quite capable of playing such a trick , said Rosa . 
And if on your return you find it open ? Well ? Oh , Rosa , whenever it opens , remember that not a moment must be lost in apprising the President . 
Rosa sighed , yet without any bitter feeling , but rather like a woman who begins to understand a foible , and to accustom herself to it . 
I return to your tulip , Mynheer van Baerle , and as soon as it opens I will give you news , which being done the messenger will set out immediately . 
Rosa , Rosa , I don't know to what wonder under the sun I shall compare you . 
Compare me to the black tulip , and I promise you I shall feel very much flattered . 
Good night , then , till we meet again , Mynheer Cornelius . 
Oh , say 'Good night , my friend . 
Good night , my friend , said Rosa , a little consoled . 
Say , 'My very dear friend . 
Oh , my friend Very dear friend , I entreat you , say 'very dear , Rosa , very dear . 
Very dear , yes , very dear , said Rosa , with a beating heart , beyond herself with happiness . 
And now that you have said 'very dear , dear Rosa , say also 'most happy' say 'happier and more blessed than ever man was under the sun . 
I only lack one thing , Rosa . 
And that is ? Your cheek , your fresh cheek , your soft , rosy cheek . 
Oh , Rosa , give it me of your own free will , and not by chance . 
Cornelius stood with his heart upon his lips , and his face glued to the wicket in the door . 
He was fairly choking with happiness and joy . 
He filled his lungs with the pure , sweet air , while his brain dwelt upon thoughts of happiness , and his heart overflowed with gratitude and religious fervour . 
He was well again , the poor invalid the wretched captive was free once more . 
During part of the night Cornelius , with his heart full of joy and delight , remained at his window , gazing at the stars , and listening for every sound . 
Touch it gently , Rosa . 
Perhaps she touches with her lips its expanding chalice . 
Touch it cautiously , Rosa , your lips are burning . 
Yes , perhaps at this moment the two objects of my dearest love caress each other under the eye of Heaven . 
At this moment , a star blazed in the southern sky , and shot through the whole horizon , falling down , as it were , on the fortress of Loewestein . 
Cornelius felt a thrill run through his frame . 
Ah ! he said , here is Heaven sending a soul to my flower . 
How ! here it is ? exclaimed Cornelius . 
Yes , yes , we ought indeed to run some little risk to give a great joy here it is , take it . 
Cornelius uttered a cry , and was nearly fainting . 
Rosa , said Cornelius , almost gasping , Rosa , there is not one moment to lose in writing the letter . 
It is written , my dearest Cornelius , said Rosa . 
Is it , indeed ? Whilst the tulip opened I wrote it myself , for I did not wish to lose a moment . 
Here is the letter , and tell me whether you approve of it . 
As soon as it is open , I shall send a messenger to you , with the request that you will come and fetch it in person from the fortress at Loewestein . 
I am the daughter of the jailer , Gryphus , almost as much of a captive as the prisoners of my father . 
I cannot , therefore , bring to you this wonderful flower . 
This is the reason why I beg you to come and fetch it yourself . 
It is my wish that it should be called Rosa Barlaensis . 
It has opened it is perfectly black come , Mynheer President , come . 
I have the honour to be your humble servant , Rosa Gryphus . 
That's it , dear Rosa , that's it . 
Your letter is admirable ! I could not have written it with such beautiful simplicity . 
You will give to the committee all the information that will be required of you . 
They will then know how the tulip has been grown , how much care and anxiety , and how many sleepless nights , it has cost . 
But for the present not a minute must be lost . 
The messenger ! the messenger ! What's the name of the President ? Give me the letter , I will direct it . 
Oh , he is very well known it is Mynheer van Systens , the burgomaster of Haarlem give it to me , Rosa , give it to me . 
And with a trembling hand Cornelius wrote the address , To Mynheer Peter van Systens , Burgomaster , and President of the Horticultural Society of Haarlem . 
And now , Rosa , go , go , said Cornelius , and let us implore the protection of God , who has so kindly watched over us until now . 
Chapter The Rival And in fact the poor young people were in great need of protection . 
They had never been so near the destruction of their hopes as at this moment , when they thought themselves certain of their fulfilment . 
The reader will remember that the first cause of uneasiness was given to the prisoner by the rage of Jacob when Gryphus crushed the first bulb . 
In that moment Boxtel's exasperation was the more fierce , as , though suspecting that Cornelius possessed a second bulb , he by no means felt sure of it . 
From that moment he began to dodge the steps of Rosa , not only following her to the garden , but also to the lobbies . 
Her discovery , however , was made too late , as Boxtel had heard from the mouth of the prisoner himself that a second bulb existed . 
He saw Rosa conveying a large flower pot of white earthenware from her father's kitchen to her bedroom . 
He saw Rosa washing in pails of water her pretty little hands , begrimed as they were with the mould which she had handled , to give her tulip the best soil possible . 
He had not been installed more than three days in his attic before all his doubts were removed . 
Rosa watched the flower pot with an interest which betrayed to Boxtel the real value of the object enclosed in it . 
This object could not be anything else but the second bulb , that is to say , the quintessence of all the hopes of the prisoner . 
When the nights threatened to be too cold , Rosa took in the flower pot . 
Well , it was then quite evident she was following the instructions of Cornelius , who was afraid of the bulb being killed by frost . 
When the sun became too hot , Rosa likewise took in the pot from eleven in the morning until two in the afternoon . 
Another proof Cornelius was afraid lest the soil should become too dry . 
But when the first leaves peeped out of the earth Boxtel was fully convinced and his telescope left him no longer in any uncertainty before they had grown one inch in height . 
Cornelius possessed two bulbs , and the second was intrusted to the love and care of Rosa . 
For it may well be imagined that the tender secret of the two lovers had not escaped the prying curiosity of Boxtel . 
The question , therefore , was how to wrest the second bulb from the care of Rosa . 
Certainly this was no easy task . 
Rosa watched over her tulip as a mother over her child , or a dove over her eggs . 
Rosa never left her room during the day , and , more than that , strange to say , she never left it in the evening . 
For seven days Boxtel in vain watched Rosa she was always at her post . 
This happened during those seven days which made Cornelius so unhappy , depriving him at the same time of all news of Rosa and of his tulip . 
Would the coolness between Rosa and Cornelius last for ever ? This would have made the theft much more difficult than Mynheer Isaac had at first expected . 
The point was to steal the tulip . 
But in order that Boxtel might steal the tulip , it was necessary that Rosa should leave her room . 
Great therefore was his joy when he saw the usual evening meetings of the lovers resumed . 
He first of all took advantage of Rosa's absence to make himself fully acquainted with all the peculiarities of the door of her chamber . 
The lock was a double one and in good order , but Rosa always took the key with her . 
He thought it , therefore , better to employ a different expedient . 
He collected as many keys as he could , and tried all of them during one of those delightful hours which Rosa and Cornelius passed together at the grating of the cell . 
Two of the keys entered the lock , and one of them turned round once , but not the second time . 
There was , therefore , only a little to be done to this key . 
It cost Boxtel two days more to bring his key to perfection , with the aid of a small file . 
Rosa's door thus opened without noise and without difficulty , and Boxtel found himself in her room alone with the tulip . 
Thus envy urged Boxtel on with rapid steps in the career of crime . 
Boxtel , as we have said , was alone with the tulip . 
A common thief would have taken the pot under his arm , and carried it off . 
But Boxtel was not a common thief , and he reflected . 
Should any one then reclaim it , Boxtel would in his turn charge him or her with theft . 
This was a deep laid scheme , and quite worthy of its author . 
Seeing Rosa enter her room ten minutes after she had left it , Boxtel guessed that the tulip had opened , or was about to open . 
During that night , therefore , the great blow was to be struck . 
Boxtel presented himself before Gryphus with a double supply of Genievre , that is to say , with a bottle in each pocket . 
Gryphus being once fuddled , Boxtel was very nearly master of the house . 
At eleven o'clock Gryphus was dead drunk . 
At two in the morning Boxtel saw Rosa leaving the chamber but evidently she held in her arms something which she carried with great care . 
He did not doubt that this was the black tulip which was in flower . 
Was she only going to show the tulip to Cornelius ? This was more likely . 
He followed Rosa in his stocking feet , walking on tiptoe . 
He saw her approach the grated window . 
He heard her calling Cornelius . 
By the light of the dark lantern he saw the tulip open , and black as the night in which he was hidden . 
He heard the plan concerted between Cornelius and Rosa to send a messenger to Haarlem . 
He saw the lips of the lovers meet , and then heard Cornelius send Rosa away . 
He saw Rosa extinguish the light and return to her chamber . 
Ten minutes after , he saw her leave the room again , and lock it twice . 
And in that hand , it must be understood , he held the false key which opened Rosa's door as easily as did the real one . 
And this is why , in the beginning of the chapter , we said that the poor young people were in great need of the protection of God . 
Chapter The Black Tulip changes Masters Cornelius remained standing on the spot where Rosa had left him . 
He was quite overpowered with the weight of his twofold happiness . 
Half an hour passed away . 
Almost at the same instant he saw before him the pale and distracted face of Rosa . 
He started , and turned pale with fright . 
Cornelius , Cornelius ! she screamed , gasping for breath . 
Good Heaven ! what is it ? asked the prisoner . 
Cornelius ! the tulip Well ? How shall I tell you ? Speak , speak , Rosa ! Some one has taken stolen it from us . 
Stolen taken ? said Cornelius . 
But how ? Tell me , explain to me . 
Oh , it is not my fault , my friend . 
Poor Rosa ! she no longer dared to call him My beloved one . 
You have then left it alone , said Cornelius , ruefully . 
One minute only , to instruct our messenger , who lives scarcely fifty yards off , on the banks of the Waal . 
And during that time , notwithstanding all my injunctions , you left the key behind , unfortunate child ! No , no , no ! this is what I cannot understand . 
The key was never out of my hands I clinched it as if I were afraid it would take wings . 
But how did it happen , then ? That's what I cannot make out . 
Some one must have had a key for my room , or have got a false one made on purpose . 
She was nearly choking with sobs , and was unable to continue . 
Rosa , we know the thief ! Alas ! what can I say about it ? But I say that it is no one else but that infamous Jacob . 
Rosa , in her fright , made vain attempts to check this furious outbreak . 
I tell you that I shall kill that infamous Gryphus ? roared Cornelius . 
I tell you I shall shed his blood as he did that of my black tulip . 
The wretched prisoner began really to rave . 
Well , then , yes , said Rosa , all in a tremble . 
Yes , yes , only be quiet . 
Yes , yes , I will take his keys , I will open the door for you ! Yes , only be quiet , my own dear Cornelius . 
She did not finish her speech , as a growl by her side interrupted her . 
My father ! cried Rosa . 
Gryphus ! roared Van Baerle . 
Oh , you villain ! Old Gryphus , in the midst of all the noise , had ascended the staircase without being heard . 
He rudely seized his daughter by the wrist . 
So you will take my keys ? he said , in a voice choked with rage . 
Ah ! won't I teach you won't I ? Rosa clasped her hands in despair . 
We know the law , we shall give a second edition of the Buytenhof , Master Scholar , and a good one this time . 
Yes , yes , just gnaw your paws like a bear in his cage , and you , my fine little lady , devour your dear Cornelius with your eyes . 
I tell you , my lambkins , you shall not much longer have the felicity of conspiring together . 
Away with you , unnatural daughter ! And as to you , Master Scholar , we shall see each other again . 
Just be quiet , we shall . 
Rely on me , my Cornelius . 
Her father followed her , growling . 
As to poor Cornelius , he gradually loosened his hold of the bars , which his fingers still grasped convulsively . 
And now , as we have seen him enter his coach , we shall with the consent of the reader , follow him to the end of his journey . 
He proceeded but slowly , as the black tulip could not bear travelling post haste . 
But Boxtel , fearing that he might not arrive early enough , procured at Delft a box , lined all round with fresh moss , in which he packed the tulip . 
She had seen the despair of the prisoner , and she knew that it was derived from a double source , and that it was incurable . 
On the one hand , separation became inevitable , Gryphus having at the same time surprised the secret of their love and of their secret meetings . 
On the other hand , all the hopes on the fulfilment of which Cornelius van Baerle had rested his ambition for the last seven years were now crushed . 
But she sought in vain , the tulip was still missing the tulip was indeed stolen . 
And in fact she had not proceeded more than a league before she saw him hastening along one of the side paths of a very pretty road by the river . 
Setting her horse off at a canter , she soon came up with him . 
Rosa took from him the note , which had now become useless , and explained to him what she wanted him to do for her . 
The jailer , who was of a very spiteful and cruel disposition , chuckled within himself at the idea of having struck such terror into his daughter's heart . 
And whilst the affectionate father was rejoicing at the thought of his daughter weeping in her room , Rosa was making the best of her way towards Haarlem . 
Thus the prisoner alone was where Gryphus thought him to be . 
He first went to her room , but , loud as he knocked , Rosa answered not . 
The locksmith of the fortress was sent for he opened the door , but Gryphus no more found Rosa than she had found the tulip . 
At that very moment she entered Rotterdam . 
Gryphus therefore had just as little chance of finding her in the kitchen as in her room , and just as little in the garden as in the kitchen . 
The damsel , meanwhile , after having stopped for two hours at Rotterdam , had started again on her journey . 
On that evening she slept at Delft , and on the following morning she reached Haarlem , four hours after Boxtel had arrived there . 
Rosa , first of all , caused herself to be led before Mynheer van Systens , the President of the Horticultural Society of Haarlem . 
She found that worthy gentleman in a situation which , to do justice to our story , we must not pass over in our description . 
The President was drawing up a report to the committee of the society . 
This report was written on large sized paper , in the finest handwriting of the President . 
Rosa was announced simply as Rosa Gryphus but as her name , well as it might sound , was unknown to the President , she was refused admittance . 
Announce to the President , she said to the servant , that I want to speak to him about the black tulip . 
These words seemed to be an Open Sesame , for she soon found herself in the office of the President , Van Systens , who gallantly rose from his chair to meet her . 
Well , miss , he said , you are coming , I am told , about the affair of the black tulip . 
To the President of the Horticultural Society the Tulipa nigra was a first rate power , which , in its character as queen of the tulips , might send ambassadors . 
Yes , sir , answered Rosa I come at least to speak of it . 
Is it doing well , then ? asked Van Systens , with a smile of tender veneration . 
Alas ! sir , I don't know , said Rosa . 
How is that ? could any misfortune have happened to it ? A very great one , sir yet not to it , but to me . 
What ? It has been stolen from me . 
Stolen ! the black tulip ? Yes , sir . 
Do you know the thief ? I have my suspicions , but I must not yet accuse any one . 
But the matter may very easily be ascertained . 
How is that ? As it has been stolen from you , the thief cannot be far off . 
Why not ? Because I have seen the black tulip only two hours ago . 
You have seen the black tulip ! cried Rosa , rushing up to Mynheer van Systens . 
As I see you , miss . 
But where ? Well , with your master , of course . 
With my master ? Yes , are you not in the service of Master Isaac Boxtel ? I ? Yes , you . 
And what is it you told me just now ? I told you , sir , that my tulip has been stolen . 
Then your tulip is that of Mynheer Boxtel . 
Well , my child , you express yourself very badly . 
The tulip has been stolen , not from you , but from Mynheer Boxtel . 
I repeat to you , sir , that I do not know who this Mynheer Boxtel is , and that I have now heard his name pronounced for the first time . 
You do not know who Mynheer Boxtel is , and you also had a black tulip ? But is there any other besides mine ? asked Rosa , trembling . 
Yes , that of Mynheer Boxtel . 
How is it ? Black , of course . 
Without speck ? Without a single speck , or even point . 
With sunken eyes ? I think he has . 
Restless , stooping , and bowlegged ? In truth , you draw Master Boxtel's portrait feature by feature . 
Oh , sir ! that's my tulip , which has been stolen from me . 
I came here to reclaim it before you and from you . 
Oh ! oh ! said Van Systens , looking at Rosa . 
What ! you are here to claim the tulip of Master Boxtel ? Well , I must say , you are cool enough . 
Honoured sir , a little put out by this apostrophe , I do not say that I am coming to claim the tulip of Master Boxtel , but to reclaim my own . 
Yours ? Yes , the one which I have myself planted and nursed . 
Good bye , my child . 
Oh , sir , sir ! said Rosa , imploringly . 
Only , my child , continued Van Systens , as you are young and pretty , and as there may be still some good in you , I'll give you some good advice . 
Go , my child , go , remember , Master Isaac Boxtel at the White Swan Inn . 
And Mynheer van Systens , taking up his fine pen , resumed his report , which had been interrupted by Rosa's visit . 
Good Heaven ! she muttered to herself , I have made a grievous blunder it may be I have ruined Cornelius , the tulip , and myself . 
I have given the alarm , and perhaps awakened suspicion . 
I am but a woman these men may league themselves against me , and then I shall be lost . 
If I am lost that matters nothing , but Cornelius and the tulip ! She reflected for a moment . 
In the meanwhile , a great noise was heard , like the distant roar of the sea , at the other extremity of the market place . 
People were running about , doors opening and shutting , Rosa alone was unconscious of all this hubbub among the multitude . 
We must return to the President , she muttered . 
Well , then , let us return , said the boatman . 
They took a small street , which led them straight to the mansion of Mynheer van Systens , who with his best pen in his finest hand continued to draw up his report . 
Everywhere on her way Rosa heard people speaking only of the black tulip , and the prize of a hundred thousand guilders . 
The news had spread like wildfire through the town . 
But when he recognised Rosa , whom in his own mind he had set down as mad , or even worse , he grew angry , and wanted to send her away . 
Well , I declare , here is a proposal , said Van Systens . 
In his wake followed two officers , one of the navy , and the other of the cavalry . 
Van Systens , having found his way through the frightened domestics , began to bow , almost to prostrate himself before his visitor , who had been the cause of all this stir . 
I am sorry to say we have not . 
And where is it ? With its owner . 
Who is he ? An honest tulip grower of Dort . 
Very well , send for him . 
Yes , your Highness , but What is it ? Oh , nothing of any consequence , Monseigneur . 
Everything is of consequence , Mynheer van Systens . 
Well , then , Monseigneur , if it must be said , a little difficulty has presented itself . 
What difficulty ? This tulip has already been claimed by usurpers . 
It's true that it is worth a hundred thousand guilders . 
Indeed ! Yes , Monseigneur , by usurpers , by forgers . 
This is a crime , Mynheer van Systens . 
So it is , your Highness . 
And what do you think of her ? I think , Monseigneur , that the bait of a hundred thousand guilders may have tempted her . 
And so she claims the tulip ? Yes Monseigneur . 
And what proof does she offer ? I was just going to question her when your Highness came in . 
Question her , Mynheer van Systens , question her . 
I am the first magistrate of the country I will hear the case and administer justice . 
I have found my King Solomon , said Van Systens , bowing , and showing the way to the Prince . 
His Highness was just going to walk ahead , but , suddenly recollecting himself he said Go before me , and call me plain Mynheer . 
The two then entered the cabinet . 
Rosa was still standing at the same place , leaning on the window , and looking through the panes into the garden . 
Ah ! a Frisian girl , said the Prince , as he observed Rosa's gold brocade headdress and red petticoat . 
At the noise of their footsteps she turned round , but scarcely saw the Prince , who seated himself in the darkest corner of the apartment . 
The humble stranger took a book down from the shelf , and made Van Systens a sign to commence the examination forthwith . 
Well , then , speak before this gentleman this gentleman is one of the members of the Horticultural Society . 
What am I to tell you , sir , said Rosa , beside that which I have told you already . 
Well , then , what is it ? I repeat the question I have addressed to you before . 
Which ? That you will order Mynheer Boxtel to come here with his tulip . 
You have , then , some proofs , my child ? God , who knows my good right , will assist me to some . 
An officer went off to fetch Boxtel , and Van Systens in the meanwhile continued his examination . 
In your chamber ? Where was your chamber ? At Loewestein . 
You are from Loewestein ? I am the daughter of the jailer of the fortress . 
The Prince made a little movement , as much as to say , Well , that's it , I remember now . 
And , all the while feigning to be engaged with his book , he watched Rosa with even more attention than he had before . 
And you are fond of flowers ? continued Mynheer van Systens . 
There was such an expression of truth in the tone of her voice , that Van Systens and the Prince answered simultaneously by an affirmative movement of their heads . 
No , the black tulip has not been found by myself . 
But by whom else ? By a poor prisoner of Loewestein . 
By a prisoner of Loewestein ? repeated the Prince . 
The tone of his voice startled Rosa , who was sure she had heard it before . 
By a prisoner of state , then , continued the Prince , as there are none else there . 
Having said this he began to read again , at least in appearance . 
Yes , said Rosa , with a faltering voice , yes , by a prisoner of state . 
Van Systens trembled as he heard such a confession made in the presence of such a witness . 
Continue , said William dryly , to the President of the Horticultural Society . 
Ah , sir , said Rosa , addressing the person whom she thought to be her real judge , I am going to incriminate myself very seriously . 
Certainly , said Van Systens , the prisoner of state ought to be kept in close confinement at Loewestein . 
And from what you tell me you took advantage of your position , as daughter of the jailer , to communicate with a prisoner of state about the cultivation of flowers . 
So it is , sir , Rosa murmured in dismay yes , I am bound to confess , I saw him every day . 
Unfortunate girl ! exclaimed Van Systens . 
Go on , young woman , go on . 
Van Systens , by means of an eloquent glance , offered , in the name of the tulip , his thanks to the new member of the Horticultural Society . 
All this was detailed with an accent of truth which , although producing no change in the impassible mien of the Prince , did not fail to take effect on Van Systens . 
But , said the Prince , it cannot be long since you knew the prisoner . 
Rosa opened her large eyes and looked at the stranger , who drew back into the dark corner , as if he wished to escape her observation . 
Why , sir ? she asked him . 
Because it is not yet four months since the jailer Gryphus and his daughter were removed to Loewestein . 
That is true , sir . 
Otherwise , you must have solicited the transfer of your father , in order to be able to follow some prisoner who may have been transported from the Hague to Loewestein . 
Sir , said Rosa , blushing . 
Finish what you have to say , said William . 
I confess I knew the prisoner at the Hague . 
Happy prisoner ! said William , smiling . 
Rosa , trembling , pale and terrified , expected to be invited in her turn to see the tulip . 
She now heard the voice of Boxtel . 
It is he ! she exclaimed . 
The Prince made her a sign to go and look through the open door into the drawing room . 
It is my tulip , cried Rosa , I recognise it . 
Oh , my poor Cornelius ! And saying this she burst into tears . 
The Prince rose from his seat , went to the door , where he stood for some time with the full light falling upon his figure . 
As Rosa's eyes now rested upon him , she felt more than ever convinced that this was not the first time she had seen the stranger . 
Master Boxtel , said the Prince , come in here , if you please . 
Boxtel eagerly approached , and , finding himself face to face with William of Orange , started back . 
His Highness ! he called out . 
His Highness ! Rosa repeated in dismay . 
Hearing this exclamation on his left , Boxtel turned round , and perceived Rosa . 
At this sight the whole frame of the thief shook as if under the influence of a galvanic shock . 
Ah ! muttered the Prince to himself , he is confused . 
But Boxtel , making a violent effort to control his feelings , was already himself again . 
It is true his agitation might have been attributable to the emotion which the man must have felt on suddenly recognising the Prince . 
But , continued the Stadtholder , here is a young damsel who also pretends to have found it . 
Boxtel , with a disdainful smile , shrugged his shoulders . 
William watched all his movements with evident interest and curiosity . 
Then you don't know this young girl ? said the Prince . 
No , your Highness ! And you , child , do you know Master Boxtel ? No , I don't know Master Boxtel , but I know Master Jacob . 
What do you mean ? I mean to say that at Loewestein the man who here calls himself Isaac Boxtel went by the name of Master Jacob . 
What do you say to that , Master Boxtel ? I say that this damsel lies , your Highness . 
You deny , therefore , having ever been at Loewestein ? Boxtel hesitated the fixed and searching glance of the proud eye of the Prince prevented him from lying . 
I cannot deny having been at Loewestein , your Highness , but I deny having stolen the tulip . 
You have stolen it , and that from my room , cried Rosa , with indignation . 
I have even acquired some reputation in this art one of my hybrids is entered in the catalogue under the name of an illustrious personage . 
I have dedicated it to the King of Portugal . 
The truth in the matter is as I shall now tell your Highness . 
Yah ! cried Rosa , beyond herself with anger . 
Silence ! said the Prince . 
Nothing could have been more agreeable to Boxtel than this question . 
This prisoner , he said , is a man whose name in itself will prove to your Highness what trust you may place in his probity . 
He is a prisoner of state , who was once condemned to death . 
And his name ? Rosa hid her face in her hands with a movement of despair . 
His name is Cornelius van Baerle , said Boxtel , and he is godson of that villain Cornelius de Witt . 
The Prince gave a start , his generally quiet eye flashed , and a death like paleness spread over his impassible features . 
He went up to Rosa , and with his finger , gave her a sign to remove her hands from her face . 
Rosa obeyed , as if under mesmeric influence , without having seen the sign . 
Go on , said the Prince to Boxtel . 
I have nothing more to say , Isaac continued . 
But there is one thing which I did not intend to say , because I did not wish to make this girl blush for her ingratitude . 
I came to Loewestein because I had business there . 
Her lover having himself made a show at Dort of cultivating tulips to hide his political intrigues , they now plotted together for my ruin . 
On the eve of the day when the flower was expected to open , the tulip was taken away by this young woman . 
But she did not stop there . 
There is no doubt that , during the few hours which she kept the flower in her room , she showed it to some persons whom she may now call as witnesses . 
But , fortunately , your Highness has now been warned against this impostor and her witnesses . 
You have done very wrong , my child , he said , and your lover shall be punished for having thus badly advised you . 
For you are so young , and have such an honest look , that I am inclined to believe the mischief to have been his doing , and not yours . 
Monseigneur ! Monseigneur ! cried Rosa , Cornelius is not guilty . 
Well , sir , he was ignorant of this correspondence being deposited with him completely ignorant . 
Oh , would to Heaven that you knew my Cornelius Monseigneur ! He is a De Witt ! cried Boxtel . 
His Highness knows only too much of him , having once granted him his life . 
Silence ! said the Prince all these affairs of state , as I have already said , are completely out of the province of the Horticultural Society of Haarlem . 
Then , knitting his brow , he added , As to the tulip , make yourself easy , Master Boxtel , you shall have justice done to you . 
Boxtel bowed with a heart full of joy , and received the congratulations of the President . 
You , my child , William of Orange continued , you were going to commit a crime . 
I will not punish you but the real evil doer shall pay the penalty for both . 
A man of his name may be a conspirator , and even a traitor , but he ought not to be a thief . 
A thief ! cried Rosa . 
Cornelius a thief ? Pray , your Highness , do not say such a word , it would kill him , if he knew it . 
If theft there has been , I swear to you , Sir , no one else but this man has committed it . 
Prove it , Boxtel coolly remarked . 
With God's help I shall . 
Then , turning towards Boxtel , she asked , The tulip is yours ? It is . 
He therefore answered , Three . 
What has become of these bulbs ? Oh ! what has become of them ? Well , one has failed the second has produced the black tulip . 
And the third ? The third ! The third , where is it ? I have it at home , said Boxtel , quite confused . 
At home ? Where ? At Loewestein , or at Dort ? At Dort , said Boxtel . 
You lie ! cried Rosa . 
Monseigneur , she continued , whilst turning round to the Prince , I will tell you the true story of these three bulbs . 
When about to be led to the scaffold , Cornelius van Baerle gave me all the three . 
Take it , Monseigneur , take it . 
And Rosa , unfolding the paper , offered the bulb to the Prince , who took it from her hands and examined it . 
This request , as the reader may remember , was couched in the following terms My Dear Godson , Burn the parcel which I have intrusted to you . 
Burn it without looking at it , and without opening it , so that its contents may for ever remain unknown to yourself . 
Secrets of this description are death to those with whom they are deposited . 
Burn it , and you will have saved John and Cornelius de Witt . 
Farewell , and love me . 
This slip of paper offered the proofs both of Van Baerle's innocence and of his claim to the property of the tulip . 
Rosa and the Stadtholder exchanged one look only . 
That of Rosa was meant to express , Here , you see yourself . 
That of the Stadtholder signified , Be quiet , and wait . 
Soon , however , raising his head with an effort , he said , in his usual voice , Go , Mr. Boxtel justice shall be done , I promise you . 
Then , turning to the President , he added , You , my dear Mynheer van Systens , take charge of this young woman and of the tulip . 
All bowed , and the Prince left , among the deafening cheers of the crowd outside . 
Gryphus , not having received any tidings of Rosa or of Jacob , persuaded himself that all that had happened was the devil's work , and that Dr . 
Cornelius van Baerle had been sent on earth by Satan . 
The pigeons were still there , but hope was not there there was no future to look forward to . 
Alas ! Rosa , being watched , was no longer able to come . 
Could she not write ? and if so , could she convey her letters to him ? No , no . 
He had seen during the two preceding days too much fury and malignity in the eyes of old Gryphus to expect that his vigilance would relax , even for one moment . 
He then felt his own powerlessness . 
He asked himself whether God was just in inflicting so much tribulation on two innocent creatures . 
And certainly in these moments he began to doubt the wisdom of Providence . 
It is one of the curses of misfortune that it thus begets doubt . 
But how should he write ? Gryphus had taken the paper and pencil from him , and even if he had both , he could hardly expect Gryphus to despatch his letter . 
Then Cornelius revolved in his mind all those stratagems resorted to by unfortunate prisoners . 
But no and it is much better so . 
Some fine day Gryphus will commit some atrocity . 
I am losing my patience , since I have lost the joy and company of Rosa , and especially since I have lost my tulip . 
Undoubtedly , some day or other Gryphus will attack me in a manner painful to my self respect , or to my love , or even threaten my personal safety . 
I don't know how it is , but since my imprisonment I feel a strange and almost irresistible pugnacity . 
Well , I shall get at the throat of that old villain , and strangle him . 
It will not do , Cornelius , my fine fellow , it is a bad plan . 
And at that very moment Gryphus entered . 
Cornelius heard him enter , and guessed that it was he , but did not turn round , as he knew well that Rosa was not coming after him . 
There is nothing more galling to angry people than the coolness of those on whom they wish to vent their spleen . 
This song , the placid melancholy of which was still heightened by its calm and sweet melody , exasperated Gryphus . 
Ah , you accursed sorcerer ! you are making game of me , I believe , roared Gryphus . 
Gryphus went up to the prisoner and said , But you don't see that I have taken means to get you under , and to force you to confess your crimes . 
Are you mad , my dear Master Gryphus ? asked Cornelius . 
Gryphus flourished his stick above his head , but Van Baerle moved not , and remained standing with his arms akimbo . 
It seems your intention to threaten me , Master Gryphus . 
Yes , indeed , I threaten you , cried the jailer . 
And with what ? First of all , look at what I have in my hand . 
I think that's a stick , said Cornelius calmly , but I don't suppose you will threaten me with that . 
Yes , who lays hands , said Gryphus , mad with rage , but there is not a word about a stick in the regulation . 
And the second , continued Cornelius , which is not written in the regulation , but which is to be found elsewhere 'Whosoever takes up the stick will be thrashed by the stick . 
Gryphus fairly bellowed with rage . 
Hush , hush , my good man , said Cornelius , don't do anything to lose your place . 
Ah , you sorcerer ! I'll pinch you worse , roared Gryphus . 
Don't you see my hand is empty ? Yes , I see it , and I am glad of it . 
You know that it is not generally so when I come upstairs in the morning . 
It's true , you generally bring me the worst soup , and the most miserable rations one can imagine . 
But that's not a punishment to me I eat only bread , and the worse the bread is to your taste , the better it is to mine . 
How so ? Oh , it's a very simple thing . 
Well , tell it me , said Gryphus . 
I know that in giving me bad bread you think you do me harm . 
Certainly I don't give it you to please you , you brigand . 
Gryphus answered with a growl . 
Oh ! you confess , then , that you are a sorcerer . 
Indeed , I am one . 
I don't say it before all the world , because they might burn me for it , but as we are alone , I don't mind telling you . 
Well , well , well , answered Gryphus . 
But if a sorcerer can change black bread into white , won't he die of hunger if he has no bread at all ? What's that ? said Cornelius . 
Consequently , I shall not bring you any bread at all , and we shall see how it will be after eight days . 
And , continued Gryphus , we'll begin this very day . 
But that's murder , cried Cornelius , carried away by the first impulse of the very natural terror with which this horrible mode of death inspired him . 
Well , Gryphus went on , in his jeering way , as you are a sorcerer , you will live , notwithstanding . 
Cornelius put on a smiling face again , and said , Have you not seen me make the pigeons come here from Dort ? Well ? said Gryphus . 
Well , a pigeon is a very dainty morsel , and a man who eats one every day would not starve , I think . 
And how about the fire ? said Gryphus . 
Fire ! but you know that I'm in league with the devil . 
Do you think the devil will leave me without fire ? Why , fire is his proper element . 
A man , however healthy his appetite may be , would not eat a pigeon every day . 
Wagers have been laid to do so , and those who made them gave them up . 
Well , but when I am tired of pigeons , I shall make the fish of the Waal and of the Meuse come up to me . 
Gryphus opened his large eyes , quite bewildered . 
I am rather fond of fish , continued Cornelius you never let me have any . 
Well , I shall turn your starving me to advantage , and regale myself with fish . 
Halloa ! a knife ? said Cornelius , preparing to defend himself with his stick . 
Chapter In which Van Baerle , before leaving Loewestein , settles Accounts with Gryphus The two remained silent for some minutes , Gryphus on the offensive , and Van Baerle on the defensive . 
Your daughter ? cried Van Baerle . 
Yes , my daughter Rosa , whom you have taken from me by your devilish magic . 
Now , will you tell me where she is ? And the attitude of Gryphus became more and more threatening . 
Rosa is not at Loewestein ? cried Cornelius . 
You know well she is not . 
Once more , will you restore her to me ? I see , said Cornelius , this is a trap you are laying for me . 
Now , for the last time , will you tell me where my daughter is ? Guess it , you rogue , if you don't know it . 
Only wait , only wait , growled Gryphus , white with rage , and with quivering lips , as his brain began to turn . 
But , you blockhead , said Cornelius , will you really kill me ? I shall open your heart to see in it the place where you hide my daughter . 
The knife fell to the ground , and Cornelius put his foot on it . 
It was not long before Gryphus begged for mercy . 
But before begging for mercy , he had lustily roared for help , and his cries had roused all the functionaries of the prison . 
Two turnkeys , an inspector , and three or four guards , made their appearance all at once , and found Cornelius still using the stick , with the knife under his foot . 
At the sight of these witnesses , who could not know all the circumstances which had provoked and might justify his offence , Cornelius felt that he was irretrievably lost . 
In fact , appearances were sadly against him . 
The regulations had been read to him at the moment of his entering the prison , and certain articles in them remained fixed in his memory . 
There they fettered his hands , bandaged his eyes , and let him say his prayers . 
In consequence of this proceeding , Mathias incontinently did then and there die . 
Thank you , said Cornelius . 
The guards fell back to allow an officer to pass , who entered the cell of Cornelius at the moment when the clerk of Loewestein was still making out his report . 
Is this No. ? he asked . 
Yes , Captain , answered a non commissioned officer . 
Then this is the cell of the prisoner Cornelius van Baerle ? Exactly , Captain . 
Where is the prisoner ? Here I am , sir , answered Cornelius , growing rather pale , notwithstanding all his courage . 
Cornelius van Baerle ? asked he , this time addressing the prisoner himself . 
Oh ! oh ! said Cornelius , whose heart felt oppressed by the first dread of death . 
What quick work they make here in the fortress of Loewestein . 
And the rascal talked to me of twelve hours ! Ah ! what did I tell you ? whispered the communicative guard in the ear of the culprit . 
How so ? You promised me twelve hours . 
Ah , yes , but here comes to you an aide de camp of his Highness , even one of his most intimate companions Van Deken . 
Zounds ! they did not grant such an honour to poor Mathias . 
Come , come ! said Cornelius , drawing a long breath . 
Come , I'll show to these people that an honest burgher , godson of Cornelius de Witt , can without flinching receive as many musket balls as that Mathias . 
It is not worth while finishing it , answered the officer . 
All right , replied the clerk , philosophically putting up his paper and pen into a greasy and well worn writing case . 
Repressing his melancholy thoughts , he followed the officer with a resolute heart , and carrying his head erect . 
In vain did Cornelius look to the right and to the left he saw no sign either of Rosa or Gryphus . 
On reaching the Esplanade , he bravely looked about for the guards who were to be his executioners , and in reality saw a dozen soldiers assembled . 
But they were not standing in line , or carrying muskets , but talking together so gayly that Cornelius felt almost shocked . 
But , sir , it was only in self defence . 
The unfortunate tulip fancier then felt that he had no more resources , and no more friends , and resigned himself to his fate . 
Enter , said the officer . 
Ah ! muttered Cornelius to himself , it seems they are not going to treat me to the honours of the Esplanade . 
He uttered these words loud enough for the chatty guard , who was at his heels , to overhear him . 
It's all according to circumstances . 
Cornelius thanked him by signs , and then said to himself , Well , here is a fellow who never misses giving consolation whenever an opportunity presents itself . 
In truth , my friend , I'm very much obliged to you . 
At five o'clock in the evening , at least twenty leagues had been travelled . 
Cornelius regretted that he had no longer by his side the chatty soldier , who would talk without being questioned . 
That obliging person would undoubtedly have given him as pleasant details and exact explanations concerning this third strange part of his adventures as he had done concerning the first two . 
The travellers passed the night in the carriage . 
On the following morning at dawn Cornelius found himself beyond Leyden , having the North Sea on his left , and the Zuyder Zee on his right . 
Three hours after , he entered Haarlem . 
Cornelius was not aware of what had passed at Haarlem , and we shall leave him in ignorance of it until the course of events enlightens him . 
But the reader has a right to know all about it even before our hero , and therefore we shall not make him wait . 
We have seen that Rosa and the tulip , like two orphan sisters , had been left by Prince William of Orange at the house of the President van Systens . 
Rosa did not hear again from the Stadtholder until the evening of that day on which she had seen him face to face . 
Toward evening , an officer called at Van Systen's house . 
He came from his Highness , with a request for Rosa to appear at the Town Hall . 
There , in the large Council Room into which she was ushered , she found the Prince writing . 
Rosa advanced a few steps towards the table . 
Sit down , he said . 
Rosa obeyed , for the Prince was fixing his eyes upon her , but he had scarcely turned them again to his paper when she bashfully retired to the door . 
The Prince finished his letter . 
During this time , the greyhound went up to Rosa , surveyed her and began to caress her . 
Ah , ah ! said William to his dog , it's easy to see that she is a countrywoman of yours , and that you recognise her . 
Then , turning towards Rosa , and fixing on her his scrutinising , and at the same time impenetrable glance , he said , Now , my child . 
The Prince was scarcely twenty three , and Rosa eighteen or twenty . 
He might therefore perhaps better have said , My sister . 
My child , he said , with that strangely commanding accent which chilled all those who approached him , we are alone let us speak together . 
Rosa began to tremble , and yet there was nothing but kindness in the expression of the Prince's face . 
You have a father at Loewestein ? Yes , your Highness . 
You do not love him ? I do not at least , not as a daughter ought to do , Monseigneur . 
It is not right not to love one's father , but it is right not to tell a falsehood . 
Rosa cast her eyes to the ground . 
What is the reason of your not loving your father ? He is wicked . 
In what way does he show his wickedness ? He ill treats the prisoners . 
All of them ? All . 
Whom I love , Monseigneur , she answered proudly . 
Since when ? asked the Prince . 
Since the day when I first saw him . 
And when was that ? The day after that on which the Grand Pensionary John and his brother Cornelius met with such an awful death . 
The Prince compressed his lips , and knit his brow and his eyelids dropped so as to hide his eyes for an instant . 
After a momentary silence , he resumed the conversation . 
Ah , I understand you , he said . 
Rosa , with a smile , clasped her hands . 
You hope in me ? said the Prince . 
The officer bowed , and a few minutes afterwards the gallop of a horse was heard resounding in the vaulted archway . 
My child , continued the Prince , the feast of the tulip will be on Sunday next , that is to say , the day after to morrow . 
Make yourself smart with these five hundred guilders , as I wish that day to be a great day for you . 
How does your Highness wish me to be dressed ? faltered Rosa . 
Take the costume of a Frisian bride . 
said William it will suit you very well indeed . 
We have observed that Leyden overflowed with scholars . 
In like manner Haarlem was devoted to the gentle pursuits of peace , to music and painting , orchards and avenues , groves and parks . 
Haarlem went wild about flowers , and tulips received their full share of worship . 
Study the pictures of the two Teniers . 
It is certain that sluggish folk are of all men the most earnest in tiring themselves , not when they are at work , but at play . 
Thus Haarlem was thrice given over to rejoicing , for a three fold celebration was to take place . 
The Horticultural Society of Haarlem had shown itself worthy of its fame by giving a hundred thousand guilders for the bulb of a tulip . 
The town , which did not wish to be outdone , voted a like sum , which was placed in the hands of that notable body to solemnise the auspicious event . 
At the head of the notables and of the Horticultural Committee shone Mynheer van Systens , dressed in his richest habiliments . 
The people , even among the respected republicans of the Seven Provinces , had no place assigned to them in the procession they merely lined the streets . 
This time , however , there was no question either of the triumph of Pompey or of Caesar neither of the defeat of Mithridates , nor of the conquest of Gaul . 
The procession was as placid as the passing of a flock of lambs , and as inoffensive as a flight of birds sweeping through the air . 
Haarlem had no other triumphers , except its gardeners . 
Worshipping flowers , Haarlem idolised the florist . 
In the centre of this pacific and fragrant cortege the black tulip was seen , carried on a litter , which was covered with white velvet and fringed with gold . 
For in the most insignificant words of men of political importance their friends and their opponents always endeavour to detect , and hence think they can interpret , something of their true thoughts . 
Nothing however , is more fickle than such a resolution of the people . 
When a crowd is once in the humour to cheer , it is just the same as when it begins to hiss . 
It never knows when to stop . 
Now and then Boxtel quickened his step to rub elbows for a moment with Van Systens . 
She would have been a spectre spoiling the joy of the festival for him , just as Banquo's ghost did that of Macbeth . 
Yet he did not perceive Rosa his joy therefore was not spoiled . 
The crowd and the noise and the display of artificial and natural magnificence were as dazzling to the prisoner as a ray of light flashing suddenly into his dungeon . 
What is all this , pray , Mynheer Lieutenant ? he asked of his conductor . 
As you may see , sir , replied the officer , it is a feast . 
Ah , a feast , said Cornelius , in the sad tone of indifference of a man to whom no joy remains in this world . 
It is , indeed , a feast in which flowers play a principal part . 
Oh , the sweet scents ! oh , the beautiful colours ! cried Cornelius . 
Stop , that the gentleman may see , said the officer , with that frank kindliness which is peculiar to military men , to the soldier who was acting as postilion . 
Oh , thank you , Sir , for your kindness , replied Van Baerle , in a melancholy tone the joy of others pains me please spare me this pang . 
And what flower is that ? The tulip . 
The tulip ! cried Van Baerle , is to day the feast of tulips ? Yes , sir but as this spectacle displeases you , let us drive on . 
The officer was about to give the order to proceed , but Cornelius stopped him , a painful thought having struck him . 
He asked , with faltering voice , Is the prize given to day , sir ? Yes , the prize for the black tulip . 
Cornelius's cheek flushed , his whole frame trembled , and the cold sweat stood on his brow . 
What is it you mean to say ? I mean to say . 
replied Cornelius , throwing himself back in the carriage , that the black tulip will not be found , except by one whom I know . 
The black tulip ! replied Van Baerle , thrusting half his body out of the carriage window . 
Where is it ? where is it ? Down there on the throne , don't you see ? I do see it . 
Come along , sir , said the officer . 
Now we must drive off . 
Ah ! if I were there , I should see it at once . 
Let me alight , let me see it close , I beg of you . 
Are you mad , Sir ? How could I allow such a thing ? I implore you . 
But you forget that you are a prisoner . 
But my orders , Sir , my orders . 
And the officer again made the driver a sign to proceed . 
Cornelius stopped him once more . 
Oh , be forbearing , be generous ! my whole life depends upon your pity . 
Alas ! perhaps it will not be much longer . 
You don't know , sir , what I suffer . 
You don't know the struggle going on in my heart and mind . 
William , impassible and quiet as usual , was proceeding to the green to fulfil his duty as chairman . 
He held in his hand the roll of parchment , which , on this festive day , had become his baton . 
Seeing the man gesticulate with imploring mien , and perhaps also recognising the officer who accompanied him , his Highness ordered his carriage to stop . 
In an instant his snorting steeds stood still , at a distance of about six yards from the carriage in which Van Baerle was caged . 
What is this ? the Prince asked the officer , who at the first order of the Stadtholder had jumped out of the carriage , and was respectfully approaching him . 
Monseigneur , he cried , this is the prisoner of state whom I have fetched from Loewestein , and whom I have brought to Haarlem according to your Highness's command . 
What does he want ? He entreats for permission to stop here for minute . 
William , looking with his cold glance on Cornelius , listened to his anxious and urgent request . 
His good tempered honest face turned pale and red at the same instant . 
Allow the prisoner to alight , and let him see the black tulip it is well worth being seen once . 
After having granted this permission , the Prince proceeded on his way over the green amidst the most enthusiastic acclamations . 
He soon arrived at the platform , and the thunder of cannon shook the air . 
He saw it at last , that unique flower , which he was to see once and no more . 
And yet , the more he ascertained with his own eyes the perfection of the flower , the more wretched and miserable he felt . 
At one of the angles , Boxtel , trembling with impatience , and quite absorbed in watching the Prince , the guilders , the black tulip , and the crowd . 
You know what has brought us here ? A prize of one hundred thousand guilders has been promised to whosoever should grow the black tulip . 
The black tulip has been grown here it is before your eyes , coming up to all the conditions required by the programme of the Horticultural Society of Haarlem . 
The history of its production , and the name of its grower , will be inscribed in the book of honour of the city . 
Let the person approach to whom the black tulip belongs . 
In pronouncing these words , the Prince , to judge of the effect they produced , surveyed with his eagle eye the three extremities of the triangle . 
He saw Boxtel rushing forward . 
He saw Cornelius make an involuntary movement and lastly he saw the officer who was taking care of Rosa lead , or rather push her forward towards him . 
At the sight of Rosa , a double cry arose on the right and left of the Prince . 
Boxtel , thunderstruck , and Cornelius , in joyful amazement , both exclaimed , Rosa ! Rosa ! This tulip is yours , is it not , my child ? said the Prince . 
Yes , Monseigneur , stammered Rosa , whose striking beauty excited a general murmur of applause . 
Oh ! muttered Cornelius , she has then belied me , when she said this flower was stolen from her . 
Oh ! that's why she left Loewestein . 
Alas ! am I then forgotten , betrayed by her whom I thought my best friend on earth ? Oh ! sighed Boxtel , I am lost . 
At the same moment there fell at the feet of the President van Systens another man , struck down by a very different emotion . 
Boxtel , crushed by the failure of his hopes , lay senseless on the ground . 
When they raised him , and examined his pulse and his heart , he was quite dead . 
This incident did not much disturb the festival , as neither the Prince nor the President seemed to mind it much . 
It would therefore be unjust to consider it as her dowry it is the gift of the town of Haarlem to the tulip . 
Cornelius wondered what the Prince was driving at . 
The latter continued , I give to Rosa the sum of a hundred thousand guilders , which she has fairly earned , and which she can offer to you . 
They are the reward of her love , her courage , and her honesty . 
This means , that you are not only free , but that your property will be restored to you as the property of an innocent man cannot be confiscated . 
Cornelius van Baerle , you are the godson of Cornelius de Witt and the friend of his brother John . 
Remain worthy of the name you have received from one of them , and of the friendship you have enjoyed with the other . 
The two De Witts , wrongly judged and wrongly punished in a moment of popular error , were two great citizens , of whom Holland is now proud . 
And , casting a glance towards that point of the compass where France lay , as if he saw new clouds gathering there , he entered his carriage and drove off . 
Cornelius started on the same day for Dort with Rosa , who sent her lover's old housekeeper as a messenger to her father , to apprise him of all that had taken place . 
Those who , thanks to our description , have learned the character of old Gryphus , will comprehend that it was hard for him to become reconciled to his son in law . 
He had not yet forgotten the blows which he had received in that famous encounter . 
Appointed to watch over the tulips , the old man made the rudest keeper of flowers in the whole of the Seven Provinces . 
It was indeed a sight to see him watching the obnoxious moths and butterflies , killing slugs , and driving away the hungry bees . 
As a matter of course , one was a boy , the other a girl , the former being called Cornelius , the other Rosa . 
Van Baerle remained faithfully attached to Rosa and to his tulips . 
