The Chimes by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk The Chimes CHAPTER I First Quarter . 
, but in the night , and alone . 
A great multitude of persons will be violently astonished , I know , by this position , in the broad bold Day . 
But it applies to Night . 
Anon , it comes up stealthily , and creeps along the walls , seeming to read , in whispers , the Inscriptions sacred to the Dead . 
At some of these , it breaks out shrilly , as with laughter and at others , moans and cries as if it were lamenting . 
They were old Chimes , trust me . 
, and had their silver mugs no doubt , besides . 
But Time had mowed down their sponsors , and Henry the Eighth had melted down their mugs and they now hung , nameless and mugless , in the church tower . 
They had clear , loud , lusty , sounding voices , had these Bells and far and wide they might be heard upon the wind . 
For my part , I confess myself of Toby Veck's belief , for I am sure he had opportunities enough of forming a correct one . 
And whatever Toby Veck said , I say . 
just outside the church door . 
In fact he was a ticket porter , Toby Veck , and waited there for jobs . 
The wind came tearing round the corner especially the east wind as if it had sallied forth , express , from the confines of the earth , to have a blow at Toby . 
But , windy weather , in spite of its using him so roughly , was , after all , a sort of holiday for Toby . 
They called him Trotty from his pace , which meant speed if it didn't make it . 
He could have Walked faster perhaps most likely but rob him of his trot , and Toby would have taken to his bed and died . 
A weak , small , spare old man , he was a very Hercules , this Toby , in his good intentions . 
He loved to earn his money . 
He delighted to believe Toby was very poor , and couldn't well afford to part with a delight that he was worth his salt . 
With a shilling or an eighteenpenny message or small parcel in hand , his courage always high , rose higher . 
Thus , even when he came out of his nook to warm himself on a wet day , Toby trotted . 
Falling out into the road to look up at the belfry when the Chimes resounded , Toby trotted still . 
Perhaps he was the more curious about these Bells , because there were points of resemblance between themselves and him . 
And though I had said his love , I would not have recalled the word , though it would scarcely have expressed his complicated feeling . 
For , being but a simple man , he invested them with a strange and solemn character . 
For all this , Toby scouted with indignation a certain flying rumour that the Chimes were haunted , as implying the possibility of their being connected with any Evil thing . 
'Dinner time , eh ! repeated Toby , using his right hand muffler like an infantine boxing glove , and punishing his chest for being cold . 
'Ah h h h ! He took a silent trot , after that , for a minute or two . 
It was but a little way and he had soon finished . 
'I thought it was gone , said Toby , trotting off again . 
'It's all right , however . 
I am sure I couldn't blame it if it was to go . 
It has a precious hard service of it in the bitter weather , and precious little to look forward to for I don't take snuff myself . 
it's generally from somebody else's dinner , a coming home from the baker's . 
The reflection reminded him of that other reflection , which he had left unfinished . 
'There's nothing , said Toby , 'more regular in its coming round than dinner time , and nothing less regular in its coming round than dinner . 
That's the great difference between 'em . 
It's took me a long time to find it out . 
'Why ! Lord ! said Toby . 
'The Papers is full of obserwations as it is and so's the Parliament . 
I don't know what we poor people are coming to . 
Lord send we may be coming to something better in the New Year nigh upon us ! 'Why , father , father ! said a pleasant voice , hard by . 
But Toby , not hearing it , continued to trot backwards and forwards musing as he went , and talking to himself . 
'It seems as if we can't go right , or do right , or be righted , said Toby . 
'I hadn't much schooling , myself , when I was young and I can't make out whether we have any business on the face of the earth , or not . 
Sometimes I think we must have a little and sometimes I think we must be intruding . 
I get so puzzled sometimes that I am not even able to make up my mind whether there is any good at all in us , or whether we are born bad . 
We seem to be dreadful things we seem to give a deal of trouble we are always being complained of and guarded against . 
One way or other , we fill the papers . 
Talk of a New Year ! said Toby , mournfully . 
Eyes that would bear a world of looking in , before their depth was fathomed . 
Eyes that were beautiful and true , and beaming with Hope . 
'Why , Pet , said Trotty . 
'What's to do ? I didn't expect you to day , Meg . 
'Neither did I expect to come , father , cried the girl , nodding her head and smiling as she spoke . 
'Only smell it ! Trotty was going to lift up the cover at once , in a great hurry , when she gaily interposed her hand . 
'No , no , no , said Meg , with the glee of a child . 
'Lengthen it out a little . 
What's that ? Toby took the shortest possible sniff at the edge of the basket , and cried out in a rapture 'Why , it's hot ! 'It's burning hot ! cried Meg . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! It's scalding hot ! 'Ha , ha , ha ! roared Toby , with a sort of kick . 
'It's scalding hot ! 'But what is it , father ? said Meg . 
You haven't guessed what it is . 
And you must guess what it is . 
I can't think of taking it out , till you guess what it is . 
Don't be in such a hurry ! Wait a minute ! A little bit more of the cover . 
'Ah ! It's very nice , said Toby . 
'It an't I suppose it an't Polonies ? 'No , no , no ! cried Meg , delighted . 
'Nothing like Polonies ! 'No , said Toby , after another sniff . 
'It's it's mellower than Polonies . 
It's too decided for Trotters . 
An't it ? Meg was in an ecstasy . 
He could not have gone wider of the mark than Trotters except Polonies . 
'Liver ? said Toby , communing with himself . 
There's a mildness about it that don't answer to liver . 
Pettitoes ? No. It an't faint enough for pettitoes . 
It wants the stringiness of Cocks' heads . 
And I know it an't sausages . 
I'll tell you what it is . 
It's chitterlings ! 'No , it an't ! cried Meg , in a burst of delight . 
'No , it an't ! 'Why , what am I a thinking of ! said Toby , suddenly recovering a position as near the perpendicular as it was possible for him to assume . 
'I shall forget my own name next . 
It's tripe ! Tripe it was and Meg , in high joy , protested he should say , in half a minute more , it was the best tripe ever stewed . 
'But they're always a bringing up some new law or other . 
'And according to what I was reading you in the paper the other day , father what the Judge said , you know we poor people are supposed to know them all . 
He'd grow fat upon the work he'd get , that man , and be popular with the gentlefolks in his neighbourhood . 
Very much so ! 'He'd eat his dinner with an appetite , whoever he was , if it smelt like this , said Meg , cheerfully . 
'Make haste , for there's a hot potato besides , and half a pint of fresh drawn beer in a bottle . 
Where will you dine , father ? On the Post , or on the Steps ? Dear , dear , how grand we are . 
Two places to choose from ! 'The steps to day , my Pet , said Trotty . 
There's a greater conveniency in the steps at all times , because of the sitting down but they're rheumatic in the damp . 
'Then here , said Meg , clapping her hands , after a moment's bustle 'here it is , all ready ! And beautiful it looks ! Come , father . 
Roused , now , by her cheerful summons , he shook off a melancholy shake of the head which was just coming upon him , and trotted to her side . 
As he was stooping to sit down , the Chimes rang . 
'Amen ! said Trotty , pulling off his hat and looking up towards them . 
'Amen to the Bells , father ? cried Meg . 
'They broke in like a grace , my dear , said Trotty , taking his seat . 
'They'd say a good one , I am sure , if they could . 
Many's the kind thing they say to me . 
'The Bells do , father ! laughed Meg , as she set the basin , and a knife and fork , before him . 
'Well ! 'Seem to , my Pet , said Trotty , falling to with great vigour . 
She had , though over and over again . 
For it was Toby's constant topic . 
'And it comes at last , father , said Meg , with a touch of sadness in her pleasant voice . 
'Always , answered the unconscious Toby . 
'Why , Lord forgive me ! said Trotty , dropping his knife and fork . 
I have had my dinner . 
'I have had my dinner , father , for all that , said Meg , coming nearer to him . 
'And if you'll go on with yours , I'll tell you how and where and how your dinner came to be brought and and something else besides . 
Toby still appeared incredulous but she looked into his face with her clear eyes , and laying her hand upon his shoulder , motioned him to go on while the meat was hot . 
So Trotty took up his knife and fork again , and went to work . 
But much more slowly than before , and shaking his head , as if he were not at all pleased with himself . 
'I had my dinner , father , said Meg , after a little hesitation , 'with with Richard . 
His dinner time was early and as he brought his dinner with him when he came to see me , we we had it together , father . 
Trotty took a little beer , and smacked his lips . 
Then he said , 'Oh ! because she waited . 
'And Richard says , father Meg resumed . 
'What does Richard say , Meg ? asked Toby . 
'Richard says , father Another stoppage . 
'Richard's a long time saying it , said Toby . 
He says that if we wait people in our condition until we see our way quite clearly , the way will be a narrow one indeed the common way the Grave , father . 
A bolder man than Trotty Veck must needs have drawn upon his boldness largely , to deny it . 
'And see how he leaves it cooling on the step ! said another voice . 
'See how he leaves it cooling on the step ! said Richard . 
'Meg don't know what he likes . 
Why don't you let 'em be ? CAN'T you let 'em be ? 'There ! That'll do , that'll do ! said the gentleman . 
'Halloa there ! Porter ! beckoning with his head to Trotty Veck . 
What's that ? Your dinner ? 'Yes , sir , said Trotty , leaving it behind him in a corner . 
'Don't leave it there , exclaimed the gentleman . 
'Bring it here , bring it here . 
Two other gentlemen had come out with him . 
The other , a full sized , sleek , well conditioned gentleman , in a blue coat with bright buttons , and a white cravat . 
He who had Toby's meat upon the fork , called to the first one by the name of Filer and they both drew near together . 
But Mr. Filer didn't eat it . 
The Alderman laughed , and winked for he was a merry fellow , Alderman Cute . 
Oh , and a sly fellow too ! A knowing fellow . 
Not to be imposed upon . 
Deep in the people's hearts ! He knew them , Cute did . 
I believe you ! 'But who eats tripe ? said Mr. Filer , looking round . 
'Tripe is without an exception the least economical , and the most wasteful article of consumption that the markets of this country can by possibility produce . 
Tripe is more expensive , properly understood , than the hothouse pine apple . 
The Waste , the Waste ! Trotty stood aghast , and his legs shook under him . 
He seemed to have starved a garrison of five hundred men with his own hand . 
'Who eats tripe ? said Mr. Filer , warmly . 
'Who eats tripe ? Trotty made a miserable bow . 
'You do , do you ? said Mr. Filer . 
'Then I'll tell you something . 
You snatch your tripe , my friend , out of the mouths of widows and orphans . 
'I hope not , sir , said Trotty , faintly . 
Not a grain is left for that man . 
Consequently , he's a robber . 
Trotty was so shocked , that it gave him no concern to see the Alderman finish the tripe himself . 
It was a relief to get rid of it , anyhow . 
'And what do you say ? asked the Alderman , jocosely , of the red faced gentleman in the blue coat . 
'You have heard friend Filer . 
What do YOU SAY ? 'What's it possible to say ? returned the gentleman . 
'What IS to be said ? Who can take any interest in a fellow like this , meaning Trotty 'in such degenerate times as these ? Look at him . 
Those were the times for every sort of thing , in fact . 
There's nothing now a days . 
Ah ! sighed the red faced gentleman . 
'The good old times , the good old times , repeated the gentleman . 
'What times they were ! They were the only times . 
It's of no use talking about any other times , or discussing what the people are in THESE times . 
You don't call these , times , do you ? I don't . 
Look into Strutt's Costumes , and see what a Porter used to be , in any of the good old English reigns . 
'I can prove it , by tables . 
But still the red faced gentleman extolled the good old times , the grand old times , the great old times . 
It is possible that poor Trotty's faith in these very vague Old Times was not entirely destroyed , for he felt vague enough at that moment . 
We can't go right or do right , thought Trotty in despair . 
'There is no good in us . 
'God help her , thought poor Trotty . 
'She will know it soon enough . 
He anxiously signed , therefore , to the young smith , to take her away . 
But he was so busy , talking to her softly at a little distance , that he only became conscious of this desire , simultaneously with Alderman Cute . 
There is not the least mystery or difficulty in dealing with this sort of people if you only understand 'em , and can talk to 'em in their own manner . 
I have tasted your tripe , you know , and you can't chaff me . 
There's a certain amount of cant in vogue about Starvation , and I mean to Put it Down . 
Trotty took Meg's hand and drew it through his arm . 
He didn't seem to know what he was doing though . 
'Your daughter , eh ? said the Alderman , chucking her familiarly under the chin . 
Always affable with the working classes , Alderman Cute ! Knew what pleased them ! Not a bit of pride ! 'Where's her mother ? asked that worthy gentleman . 
'Her mother got up linen and was called to Heaven when She was born . 
'Not to get up linen THERE , I suppose , remarked the Alderman pleasantly Toby might or might not have been able to separate his wife in Heaven from her old pursuits . 
'Yes , returned Richard quickly , for he was nettled by the question . 
'And we are going to be married on New Year's Day . 
'What do you mean ! cried Filer sharply . 
'Married ! 'Why , yes , we're thinking of it , Master , said Richard . 
'We're rather in a hurry , you see , in case it should be Put Down first . 
'Ah ! cried Filer , with a groan . 
'Put THAT down indeed , Alderman , and you'll do something . 
And marriage seemed as reasonable and fair a deed as they need have in contemplation . 
And THAT we know they haven't . 
'Come here , my girl ! said Alderman Cute . 
The young blood of her lover had been mounting , wrathfully , within the last few minutes and he was indisposed to let her come . 
But , setting a constraint upon himself , he came forward with a stride as Meg approached , and stood beside her . 
Trotty kept her hand within his arm still , but looked from face to face as wildly as a sleeper in a dream . 
'Now , I'm going to give you a word or two of good advice , my girl , said the Alderman , in his nice easy way . 
'It's my place to give advice , you know , because I'm a Justice . 
You know I'm a Justice , don't you ? Meg timidly said , 'Yes . 
'Very unbecoming and indelicate in one of your sex ! But never mind that . 
After you are married , you'll quarrel with your husband and come to be a distressed wife . 
You may think not but you will , because I tell you so . 
Now , I give you fair warning , that I have made up my mind to Put distressed wives Down . 
So , don't be brought before me . 
Those boys will grow up bad , of course , and run wild in the streets , without shoes and stockings . 
Mind , my young friend ! I'll convict 'em summarily , every one , for I am determined to Put boys without shoes and stockings , Down . 
and leave you with a baby . 
Then you'll be turned out of doors , and wander up and down the streets . 
Now , don't wander near me , my dear , for I am resolved , to Put all wandering mothers Down . 
All young mothers , of all sorts and kinds , it's my determination to Put Down . 
I am determined to Put Down . 
So don't try it on . 
That's the phrase , isn't it ? Ha , ha ! now we understand each other . 
Toby knew not whether to be agonised or glad , to see that Meg had turned a deadly white , and dropped her lover's hand . 
Don't make such a fool of yourself as to get married on New Year's Day . 
You'll think very differently of it , long before next New Year's Day a trim young fellow like you , with all the girls looking after you . 
There ! Go along with you ! They went along . 
Not arm in arm , or hand in hand , or interchanging bright glances but , she in tears he , gloomy and down looking . 
Were these the hearts that had so lately made old Toby's leap up from its faintness ? No , no . 
'As you happen to be here , said the Alderman to Toby , 'you shall carry a letter for me . 
Can you be quick ? You're an old man . 
Toby , who had been looking after Meg , quite stupidly , made shift to murmur out that he was very quick , and very strong . 
'How old are you ? inquired the Alderman . 
'I'm over sixty , sir , said Toby . 
'I feel I'm intruding , sir , said Toby . 
'I I misdoubted it this morning . 
Oh dear me ! The Alderman cut him short by giving him the letter from his pocket . 
Then the Alderman gave an arm to each of his friends , and walked off in high feather but , he immediately came hurrying back alone , as if he had forgotten something . 
'Porter ! said the Alderman . 
'Take care of that daughter of yours . 
'Even her good looks are stolen from somebody or other , I suppose , thought Toby , looking at the sixpence in his hand , and thinking of the tripe . 
'She's been and robbed five hundred ladies of a bloom a piece , I shouldn't wonder . 
It's very dreadful ! 'She's much too handsome , my man , repeated the Alderman . 
'The chances are , that she'll come to no good , I clearly see . 
Take care of her ! With which , he hurried off again . 
Wrong every way ! said Trotty , clasping his hands . 
No business here ! The Chimes came clashing in upon him as he said the words . 
Full , loud , and sounding but with no encouragement . 
No , not a drop . 
'The tune's changed , cried the old man , as he listened . 
'There's not a word of all that fancy in it . 
Why should there be ? I have no business with the New Year nor with the old one neither . 
Let me die ! Still the Bells , pealing forth their changes , made the very air spin . 
He pressed his bewildered head between his hands , as if to keep it from splitting asunder . 
CHAPTER II The Second Quarter . 
THE letter Toby had received from Alderman Cute , was addressed to a great man in the great district of the town . 
The greatest district of the town . 
It must have been the greatest district of the town , because it was commonly called 'the world' by its inhabitants . 
The letter positively seemed heavier in Toby's hand , than another letter . 
'How different from us ! thought Toby , in all simplicity and earnestness , as he looked at the direction . 
He couldn't finish the name . 
The final letter swelled in his throat , to the size of the whole alphabet . 
'Never mind , thought Trotty . 
'I know what I mean . 
That's more than enough for me . 
And with this consolatory rumination , trotted on . 
It was a hard frost , that day . 
The air was bracing , crisp , and clear . 
The wintry sun , though powerless for warmth , looked brightly down upon the ice it was too weak to melt , and set a radiant glory there . 
At other times , Trotty might have learned a poor man's lesson from the wintry sun but , he was past that , now . 
The Year was Old , that day . 
The patient Year had lived through the reproaches and misuses of its slanderers , and faithfully performed its work . 
Spring , summer , autumn , winter . 
It had laboured through the destined round , and now laid down its weary head to die . 
Trotty might have read a poor man's allegory in the fading year but he was past that , now . 
The New Year , like an Infant Heir to the whole world , was waited for , with welcomes , presents , and rejoicings . 
The New Year , the New Year . 
Everywhere the New Year ! The Old Year was already looked upon as dead and its effects were selling cheap , like some drowned mariner's aboardship . 
Its patterns were Last Year's , and going at a sacrifice , before its breath was gone . 
Its treasures were mere dirt , beside the riches of its unborn successor ! Trotty had no portion , to his thinking , in the New Year or the Old . 
But , even that one , melancholy as it was , brought him , in due time , to the end of his journey . 
To the mansion of Sir Joseph Bowley , Member of Parliament . 
The door was opened by a Porter . 
Such a Porter ! Not of Toby's order . 
His place was the ticket though not Toby's . 
This Porter underwent some hard panting before he could speak having breathed himself by coming incautiously out of his chair , without first taking time to think about it and compose his mind . 
'You're to take it in , yourself , said the Porter , pointing to a room at the end of a long passage , opening from the hall . 
'Everything goes straight in , on this day of the year . 
You're not a bit too soon for the carriage is at the door now , and they have only come to town for a couple of hours , a' purpose . 
'What is this ? said the last named gentleman . 
Fish , will you have the goodness to attend ? Mr. Fish begged pardon , and taking the letter from Toby , handed it , with great respect . 
'From Alderman Cute , Sir Joseph . 
'Is this all ? Have you nothing else , Porter ? inquired Sir Joseph . 
Toby replied in the negative . 
'You have no bill or demand upon me my name is Bowley , Sir Joseph Bowley of any kind from anybody , have you ? said Sir Joseph . 
'If you have , present it . 
There is a cheque book by the side of Mr. Fish . 
I allow nothing to be carried into the New Year . 
Every description of account is settled in this house at the close of the old one . 
So that if death was to to 'To cut , suggested Mr. Fish . 
'To sever , sir , returned Sir Joseph , with great asperity , 'the cord of existence my affairs would be found , I hope , in a state of preparation . 
'My dear Sir Joseph ! said the lady , who was greatly younger than the gentleman . 
We should look into our our accounts . 
We should feel that every return of so eventful a period in human transactions , involves a matter of deep moment between a man and his and his banker . 
Sir Joseph delivered these words as if he felt the full morality of what he was saying and desired that even Trotty should have an opportunity of being improved by such discourse . 
Possibly he had this end before him in still forbearing to break the seal of the letter , and in telling Trotty to wait where he was , a minute . 
'You were desiring Mr. Fish to say , my lady observed Sir Joseph . 
Fish has said that , I believe , returned his lady , glancing at the letter . 
'But , upon my word , Sir Joseph , I don't think I can let it go after all . 
It is so very dear . 
'What is dear ? inquired Sir Joseph . 
'That Charity , my love . 
They only allow two votes for a subscription of five pounds . 
Really monstrous ! 'My lady Bowley , returned Sir Joseph , 'you surprise me . 
Besides , one can't oblige one's acquaintance . 
But you are the Poor Man's Friend , you know , Sir Joseph . 
'I AM the Poor Man's Friend , observed Sir Joseph , glancing at the poor man present . 
'As such I may be taunted . 
As such I have been taunted . 
But I ask no other title . 
'Bless him for a noble gentleman ! thought Trotty . 
'I don't agree with Cute here , for instance , said Sir Joseph , holding out the letter . 
'I don't agree with the Filer party . 
I don't agree with any party . 
My friend the Poor Man , has no business with anything of that sort , and nothing of that sort has any business with him . 
My friend the Poor Man , in my district , is my business . 
No man or body of men has any right to interfere between my friend and me . 
That is the ground I take . 
I assume a a paternal character towards my friend . 
I say , My good fellow , I will treat you paternally . 
Toby listened with great gravity , and began to feel more comfortable . 
'Your only business , my good fellow , pursued Sir Joseph , looking abstractedly at Toby 'your only business in life is with me . 
You needn't trouble yourself to think about anything . 
I will think for you I know what is good for you I am your perpetual parent . 
Go forth erect into the cheerful morning air , and and stop there . 
and you may trust to me to be your Friend and Father . 
'Nice children , indeed , Sir Joseph ! said the lady , with a shudder . 
Not the less shall he receive encouragement at my hands . 
Every quarter day he will be put in communication with Mr. Fish . 
Every New Year's Day , myself and friends will drink his health . 
Once every year , myself and friends will address him with the deepest feeling . 
Once in his life , he may even perhaps receive in public , in the presence of the gentry a Trifle from a Friend . 
'O ! You have a thankful family , Sir Joseph ! cried his wife . 
'My lady , said Sir Joseph , quite majestically , 'Ingratitude is known to be the sin of that class . 
I expect no other return . 
'Ah ! Born bad ! thought Toby . 
'What man can do , I do , pursued Sir Joseph . 
'I do my duty as the Poor Man's Friend and Father and I endeavour to educate his mind , by inculcating on all occasions the one great moral lesson which that class requires . 
That is , entire Dependence on myself . 
They have no business whatever with with themselves . 
It is in the nature of things . 
With that great sentiment , he opened the Alderman's letter and read it . 
'Very polite and attentive , I am sure ! exclaimed Sir Joseph . 
'MOST agreeable ! replied my Lady Bowley . 
'The worst man among them ! He has been committing a robbery , I hope ? 'Why no , said Sir Joseph' , referring to the letter . 
, and being found at night asleep in a shed , was taken into custody , and carried next morning before the Alderman . 
'Let him be made an example of , by all means , returned the lady . 
Sir Joseph ! Make an example of him ! 'Hem ! coughed Sir Joseph . 
Fish , if you'll have the goodness to attend Mr. Fish immediately seized his pen , and wrote from Sir Joseph's dictation . 
I am very much indebted to you for your courtesy in the matter of the man William Fern , of whom , I regret to add , I can say nothing favourable . 
with ingratitude , and constant opposition to my plans . 
He is a turbulent and rebellious spirit . 
His character will not bear investigation . 
Nothing will persuade him to be happy when he might . 
And I am , and so forth . 
'It appears , remarked Sir Joseph when he had signed this letter , and Mr. Fish was sealing it , 'as if this were Ordained really . 
'With my compliments and thanks , said Sir Joseph . 
'Stop ! 'Stop ! echoed Mr. Fish . 
Behind hand with the world ! repeated Sir Joseph Bowley , in a tone of terrible distinctness . 
'I am afraid , sir , faltered Trotty , 'that there's a matter of ten or twelve shillings owing to Mrs. Chickenstalker . 
'To Mrs. Chickenstalker ! repeated Sir Joseph , in the same tone as before . 
'A shop , sir , exclaimed Toby , 'in the general line . 
Also a a little money on account of rent . 
A very little , sir . 
He then made a despondent gesture with both hands at once , as if he gave the thing up altogether . 
Take the letter ! 'I heartily wish it was otherwise , sir , said Trotty , anxious to excuse himself . 
'We have been tried very hard . 
And in the street , poor Trotty pulled his worn old hat down on his head , to hide the grief he felt at getting no hold on the New Year , anywhere . 
He didn't even lift his hat to look up at the Bell tower when he came to the old church on his return . 
He halted there a moment , from habit and knew that it was growing dark , and that the steeple rose above him , indistinct and faint , in the murky air . 
He knew , too , that the Chimes would ring immediately and that they sounded to his fancy , at such a time , like voices in the clouds . 
Toby discharged himself of his commission , therefore , with all possible speed , and set off trotting homeward . 
'I hope I haven't hurt you . 
But , satisfied of his good faith , he answered 'No , friend . 
You have not hurt me . 
'Nor the child , I hope ? said Trotty . 
'Nor the child , returned the man . 
The tone in which he said 'I thank you kindly , penetrated Trotty's heart . 
Toby stood gazing after him as he plodded wearily away , with the child's arm clinging round his neck . 
And at the child's arm , clinging round its neck . 
Before he merged into the darkness the traveller stopped and looking round , and seeing Trotty standing there yet , seemed undecided whether to return or go on . 
After doing first the one and then the other , he came back , and Trotty went half way to meet him . 
'Close at hand , replied Toby . 
'I'll show you his house with pleasure . 
So , maybe he'll forgive my going to his house to night . 
'It's impossible , cried Toby with a start , 'that your name's Fern ! 'Eh ! cried the other , turning on him in astonishment . 
'Fern ! Will Fern ! said Trotty . 
'That's my name , replied the other . 
Here ! come up this alley , and I'll tell you what I mean . 
His new acquaintance looked as if he thought him mad but he bore him company nevertheless . 
When they were shrouded from observation , Trotty told him what he knew , and what character he had received , and all about it . 
The subject of his history listened to it with a calmness that surprised him . 
He did not contradict or interrupt it , once . 
But he did no more . 
'It's true enough in the main , he said , 'master , I could sift grain from husk here and there , but let it be as 'tis . 
What odds ? I have gone against his plans to my misfortun' . 
I can't help it I should do the like to morrow . 
For myself , master , I never took with that hand' holding it before him 'what wasn't my own and never held it back from work , however hard , or poorly paid . 
My doors is dark enough without your darkening of 'em more . 
Don't look for me to come up into the Park to help the show when there's a Birthday , or a fine Speechmaking , or what not . 
Act your Plays and Games without me , and be welcome to 'em , and enjoy 'em . 
We've nowt to do with one another . 
I bear no ill will against none of 'em . 
I only want to live like one of the Almighty's creeturs . 
I can't I don't and so there's a pit dug between me , and them that can and do . 
You might tell 'em off by hundreds and by thousands , sooner than by ones . 
Trotty knew he spoke the Truth in this , and shook his head to signify as much . 
'I've got a bad name this way , said Fern 'and I'm not likely , I'm afeared , to get a better . 
'Tan't lawful to be out of sorts , and I AM out of sorts , though God knows I'd sooner bear a cheerful spirit if I could . 
'She has a beautiful face , said Trotty . 
'Why yes ! replied the other in a low voice , as he gently turned it up with both his hands towards his own , and looked upon it steadfastly . 
'I've thought so , many times . 
I've thought so , when my hearth was very cold , and cupboard very bare . 
I thought so t'other night , when we were taken like two thieves . 
'I never had one , he returned , shaking his head . 
'She's my brother's child a orphan . 
Nine year old , though you'd hardly think it but she's tired and worn out now . 
but I took her instead , and she's lived with me ever since . 
Her mother had a friend once , in London here . 
We are trying to find her , and to find work too but it's a large place . 
More room for us to walk about in , Lilly ! Meeting the child's eyes with a smile which melted Toby more than tears , he shook him by the hand . 
'I don't so much as know your name , he said , 'but I've opened my heart free to you , for I'm thankful to you with good reason . 
I'll take your advice , and keep clear of this 'Justice , suggested Toby . 
'If that's the name they give him . 
And to morrow will try whether there's better fortun' to be met with , somewheres near London . 
A Happy New Year ! 'Stay ! cried Trotty , catching at his hand , as he relaxed his grip . 
'Stay ! The New Year never can be happy to me , if we part like this . 
The New Year never can be happy to me , if I see the child and you go wandering away , you don't know where , without a shelter for your heads . 
Come home with me ! I'm a poor man , living in a poor place but I can give you lodging for one night and never miss it . 
Come home with me ! Here ! I'll take her ! cried Trotty , lifting up the child . 
'A pretty one ! I'd carry twenty times her weight , and never know I'd got it . 
Tell me if I go too quick for you . 
Lighter than a Peacock's feather a great deal lighter . 
Meg , surprising you ! With which words Trotty , in a breathless state , set the child down before his daughter in the middle of the floor . 
The little visitor looked once at Meg and doubting nothing in that face , but trusting everything she saw there ran into her arms . 
'Here we are and here we go ! cried Trotty , running round the room , and choking audibly . 
'Why , father ! said Meg . 
'You're crazy to night , I think . 
I don't know what the Bells would say to that . 
How cold they are ! 'Oh , they're warmer now ! exclaimed the child . 
'They're quite warm now ! 'No , no , no , said Meg . 
'We haven't rubbed 'em half enough . 
Who could do more ! 'Why , father ! cried Meg , after a pause . 
'Here I am and here I go , my dear ! said Trotty . 
'Good Gracious me ! cried Meg . 
As I don't remember where it was exactly , I'll go myself and try to find 'em . 
'But here they are at last , said Trotty , setting out the tea things , 'all correct ! I was pretty sure it was tea , and a rasher . 
Meg , my pet , if you'll just make the tea , while your unworthy father toasts the bacon , we shall be ready , immediate . 
I like to see other people enjoy 'em , said Trotty , speaking very loud , to impress the fact upon his guest , 'but to me , as food , they're disagreeable . 
No. Trotty's occupation was , to see Will Fern and Lilian eat and drink and so was Meg's . 
Meg smiled at Trotty , Trotty laughed at Meg . 
'Although , thought Trotty , sorrowfully , as he watched Meg's face 'that match is broken off , I see ! 'Now , I'll tell you what , said Trotty after tea . 
'The little one , she sleeps with Meg , I know . 
'With good Meg ! cried the child , caressing her . 
'That's right , said Trotty . 
'And I shouldn't wonder if she kiss Meg's father , won't she ? I'M Meg's father . 
Mightily delighted Trotty was , when the child went timidly towards him , and having kissed him , fell back upon Meg again . 
'She's as sensible as Solomon , said Trotty . 
'To be sure , said Toby . 
'To be sure ! I don't know what I'm rambling on about , to night . 
My wits are wool gathering , I think . 
Will Fern , you come along with me . 
You're tired to death , and broken down for want of rest . 
You come along with me . 
The man still played with the child's curls , still leaned upon Meg's chair , still turned away his face . 
He didn't speak , but in his rough coarse fingers , clenching and expanding in the fair hair of the child , there was an eloquence that said enough . 
'Yes , yes , said Trotty , answering unconsciously what he saw expressed in his daughter's face . 
'Take her with you , Meg . 
There ! Now , Will , I'll show you where you lie . 
There's plenty of sweet hay up there , belonging to a neighbour and it's as clean as hands , and Meg , can make it . 
Cheer up ! Don't give way . 
A new heart for a New Year , always ! The hand released from the child's hair , had fallen , trembling , into Trotty's hand . 
So Trotty , talking without intermission , led him out as tenderly and easily as if he had been a child himself . 
Returning before Meg , he listened for an instant at the door of her little chamber an adjoining room . 
It was some short time before the foolish little old fellow could compose himself to mend the fire , and draw his chair to the warm hearth . 
But , when he had done so , and had trimmed the light , he took his newspaper from his pocket , and began to read . 
Carelessly at first , and skimming up and down the columns but with an earnest and a sad attention , very soon . 
For this same dreaded paper re directed Trotty's thoughts into the channel they had taken all that day , and which the day's events had so marked out and shaped . 
of a woman who had laid her desperate hands not only on her own life but on that of her young child . 
'Unnatural and cruel ! None but people who were bad at heart , born bad , who had no business on the earth , could do such deeds . 
It's too true , all I've heard to day too just , too full of proof . 
We're Bad ! The Chimes took up the words so suddenly burst out so loud , and clear , and sonorous that the Bells seemed to strike him in his chair . 
Fancy , fancy ! His remorse for having run away from them that afternoon ! No , no . 
Again , again , and yet a dozen times again . 
'Do you hear anything ? 'I hear the Bells , father . 
Surely they're very loud to night . 
'Is she asleep ? said Toby , making an excuse for peeping in . 
'So peacefully and happily ! I can't leave her yet though , father . 
Look how she holds my hand ! 'Meg , whispered Trotty . 
'Listen to the Bells ! She listened , with her face towards him all the time . 
But it underwent no change . 
Trotty withdrew , resumed his seat by the fire , and once more listened by himself . 
He remained here a little time . 
It was impossible to bear it their energy was dreadful . 
'What have I to fear ? said Trotty . 
'It's a church ! Besides , the ringers may be there , and have forgotten to shut the door . 
So he went in , feeling his way as he went , like a blind man for it was very dark . 
And very quiet , for the Chimes were silent . 
This was another reason , however , for going on . 
Trotty groped his way , and went on . 
, all kneaded up together in a leaven of mist and darkness . 
This was the belfry , where the ringers came . 
He had caught hold of one of the frayed ropes which hung down through apertures in the oaken roof . 
At first he started , thinking it was hair then trembled at the very thought of waking the deep Bell . 
The Bells themselves were higher . 
Higher , Trotty , in his fascination , or in working out the spell upon him , groped his way . 
By ladders now , and toilsomely , for it was steep , and not too certain holding for the feet . 
It was barely possible to make out their great shapes in the gloom but there they were . 
Shadowy , and dark , and dumb . 
A heavy sense of dread and loneliness fell instantly upon him , as he climbed into this airy nest of stone and metal . 
His head went round and round . 
He listened , and then raised a wild 'Holloa ! Holloa ! was mournfully protracted by the echoes . 
Giddy , confused , and out of breath , and frightened , Toby looked about him vacantly , and sunk down in a swoon . 
BLACK are the brooding clouds and troubled the deep waters , when the Sea of Thought , first heaving from a calm , gives up its Dead . 
But , awake and standing on his feet upon the boards where he had lately lain , he saw this Goblin Sight . 
He saw the tower , whither his charmed footsteps had brought him , swarming with dwarf phantoms , spirits , elfin creatures of the Bells . 
He saw them leaping , flying , dropping , pouring from the Bells without a pause . 
He saw them , of all aspects and all shapes . 
He saw them ugly , handsome , crippled , exquisitely formed . 
He saw the air thick with them . 
He saw them come and go , incessantly . 
He saw them riding downward , soaring upward , sailing off afar , perching near at hand , all restless and all violently active . 
Stone , and brick , and slate , and tile , became transparent to him as to them . 
He saw them IN the houses , busy at the sleepers' beds . 
He saw these creatures , not only among sleeping men but waking also , active in pursuits irreconcilable with one another , and possessing or assuming natures the most opposite . 
He saw one buckling on innumerable wings to increase his speed another loading himself with chains and weights , to retard his . 
He saw some putting the hands of clocks forward , some putting the hands of clocks backward , some endeavouring to stop the clock entirely . 
He saw them representing , here a marriage ceremony , there a funeral in this chamber an election , in that a ball he saw , everywhere , restless and untiring motion . 
As he gazed , the Chimes stopped . 
Instantaneous change ! The whole swarm fainted ! their forms collapsed , their speed deserted them they sought to fly , but in the act of falling died and melted into air . 
No fresh supply succeeded them . 
One straggler leaped down pretty briskly from the surface of the Great Bell , and alighted on his feet , but he was dead and gone before he could turn round . 
Then and not before , did Trotty see in every Bell a bearded figure of the bulk and stature of the Bell incomprehensibly , a figure and the Bell itself . 
Gigantic , grave , and darkly watchful of him , as he stood rooted to the ground . 
Mysterious and awful figures ! Resting on nothing poised in the night air of the tower , with their draped and hooded heads merged in the dim roof motionless and shadowy . 
Shadowy and dark , although he saw them by some light belonging to themselves none else was there each with its muffled hand upon its goblin mouth . 
He could not plunge down wildly through the opening in the floor for all power of motion had deserted him . 
Again , again , the dread and terror of the lonely place , and of the wild and fearful night that reigned there , touched him like a spectral hand . 
A blast of air how cold and shrill ! came moaning through the tower . 
As it died away , the Great Bell , or the Goblin of the Great Bell , spoke . 
'What visitor is this ! it said . 
The voice was low and deep , and Trotty fancied that it sounded in the other figures as well . 
'I thought my name was called by the Chimes ! said Trotty , raising his hands in an attitude of supplication . 
'I hardly know why I am here , or how I came . 
I have listened to the Chimes these many years . 
They have cheered me often . 
'And you have thanked them ? said the Bell . 
'A thousand times ! cried Trotty . 
'How ? 'I am a poor man , faltered Trotty , 'and could only thank them in words . 
'And always so ? inquired the Goblin of the Bell . 
'Have you never done us wrong in words ? 'No ! cried Trotty eagerly . 
'Never done us foul , and false , and wicked wrong , in words ? pursued the Goblin of the Bell . 
Trotty was about to answer , 'Never ! But he stopped , and was confused . 
Ages of darkness , wickedness , and violence , have come and gone millions uncountable , have suffered , lived , and died to point the way before him . 
'It was quite by accident if I did . 
I wouldn't go to do it , I'm sure . 
And you have done that wrong , to us , the Chimes . 
Trotty's first excess of fear was gone . 
That wrong you have done us ! said the Bell . 
'I have ! said Trotty . 
And you have done us wrong ! 'Not meaning it , said Trotty . 
Not meaning it ! 'Lastly , and most of all , pursued the Bell . 
And you have done that wrong ! 'Spare me ! cried Trotty , falling on his knees 'for Mercy's sake ! 'Listen ! said the Shadow . 
'Listen ! cried the other Shadows . 
'Listen ! said a clear and childlike voice , which Trotty thought he recognised as having heard before . 
The organ sounded faintly in the church below . 
Swelling by degrees , the melody ascended to the roof , and filled the choir and nave . 
No wonder that an old man's breast could not contain a sound so vast and mighty . 
It broke from that weak prison in a rush of tears and Trotty put his hands before his face . 
'Listen ! said the Shadow . 
'Listen ! said the other Shadows . 
'Listen ! said the child's voice . 
A solemn strain of blended voices , rose into the tower . 
It was a very low and mournful strain a Dirge and as he listened , Trotty heard his child among the singers . 
'She is dead ! exclaimed the old man . 
'Meg is dead ! Her Spirit calls to me . 
Learn from her life , a living truth . 
Learn from the creature dearest to your heart , how bad the bad are born . 
See every bud and leaf plucked one by one from off the fairest stem , and know how bare and wretched it may be . 
Follow her ! To desperation ! Each of the shadowy figures stretched its right arm forth , and pointed downward . 
'The Spirit of the Chimes is your companion , said the figure . 
'In these arms ! 'Show him what he calls himself , said the dark figures , one and all . 
The tower opened at his feet . 
He looked down , and beheld his own form , lying at the bottom , on the outside crushed and motionless . 
'No more a living man ! cried Trotty . 
'Dead ! 'Dead ! said the figures all together . 
'Gracious Heaven ! And the New Year 'Past , said the figures . 
'What ! he cried , shuddering . 
'I missed my way , and coming on the outside of this tower in the dark , fell down a year ago ? 'Nine years ago ! replied the figures . 
As they gave the answer , they recalled their outstretched hands and where their figures had been , there the Bells were . 
And they rung their time being come again . 
'What are these ? he asked his guide . 
'If I am not mad , what are these ? 'Spirits of the Bells . 
Their sound upon the air , returned the child . 
'They take such shapes and occupations as the hopes and thoughts of mortals , and the recollections they have stored up , give them . 
'And you , said Trotty wildly . 
'What are you ? 'Hush , hush ! returned the child . 
But , he held his trembling breath , and brushed away the blinding tears , that he might look upon her that he might only see her . 
The light of the clear eye , how dimmed . 
The bloom , how faded from the cheek . 
Following her eyes , the old man started back . 
In the woman grown , he recognised her at a glance . 
In the long silken hair , he saw the self same curls around the lips , the child's expression lingering still . 
They were speaking ! 'Meg , said Lilian , hesitating . 
'How often you raise your head from your work to look at me ! 'Are my looks so altered , that they frighten you ? asked Meg . 
'Nay , dear ! But you smile at that , yourself ! Why not smile , when you look at me , Meg ? 'I do so . 
Do I not ? she answered smiling on her . 
'Now you do , said Lilian , 'but not usually . 
When you think I'm busy , and don't see you , you look so anxious and so doubtful , that I hardly like to raise my eyes . 
There is little cause for smiling in this hard and toilsome life , but you were once so cheerful . 
'Am I not now ! cried Meg , speaking in a tone of strange alarm , and rising to embrace her . 
'How can the cruel world go round , and bear to look upon such lives ! 'Lilly ! said Meg , soothing her , and putting back her hair from her wet face . 
'Why , Lilly ! You ! So pretty and so young ! 'Oh Meg ! she interrupted , holding her at arm's length , and looking in her face imploringly . 
But the Spirit of the child had taken flight . 
, it was on a New Year's Day that this festivity took place . 
Bowley Hall was full of visitors . 
Trotty's ghost was there , wandering about , poor phantom , drearily and looking for its guide . 
There was to be a great dinner in the Great Hall . 
At which Sir Joseph Bowley , in his celebrated character of Friend and Father of the Poor , was to make his great speech . 
But , there was more than this to happen . 
Ah ! Fine character ! 'Very , said Mr. Filer , dryly . 
'For marrying women and murdering 'em . 
Considerably more than the average number of wives by the bye . 
'You'll marry the beautiful ladies , and not murder 'em , eh ? said Alderman Cute to the heir of Bowley , aged twelve . 
to turn out bad , who might have been the children of poor Meg . 
'Bless my heart and soul ! cried Mr. Fish . 
And wherever the great people were , there , to be sure , attracted by the kindred sympathy between great souls , was Cute . 
Several voices cried that he was in the circle round Sir Joseph . 
Mr. Fish made way there found him and took him secretly into a window near at hand . 
Not of his own accord . 
He felt that his steps were led in that direction . 
'My dear Alderman Cute , said Mr. Fish . 
'A little more this way . 
The most dreadful circumstance has occurred . 
I have this moment received the intelligence . 
I think it will be best not to acquaint Sir Joseph with it till the day is over . 
You understand Sir Joseph , and will give me your opinion . 
The most frightful and deplorable event ! 'Fish ! returned the Alderman . 
'Fish ! My good fellow , what is the matter ? Nothing revolutionary , I hope ! No no attempted interference with the magistrates ? 'Deedles , the banker , gasped the Secretary . 
'Deedles Brothers who was to have been here to day high in office in the Goldsmiths' Company 'Not stopped ! exclaimed the Alderman , 'It can't be ! 'Shot himself . 
'Good God ! 'Put a double barrelled pistol to his mouth , in his own counting house , said Mr. Fish , 'and blew his brains out . 
Princely circumstances ! 'Circumstances ! exclaimed the Alderman . 
'A man of noble fortune . 
One of the most respectable of men . 
Suicide , Mr. Fish ! By his own hand ! 'This very morning , returned Mr. Fish . 
'Oh the brain , the brain ! exclaimed the pious Alderman , lifting up his hands . 
'Oh the nerves , the nerves the mysteries of this machine called Man ! Oh the little that unhinges it poor creatures that we are ! Perhaps a dinner , Mr. Fish . 
One of the most respectable men I ever knew ! A lamentable instance , Mr. Fish . 
A public calamity ! I shall make a point of wearing the deepest mourning . 
A most respectable man ! But there is One above . 
We must submit , Mr. Fish . 
We must submit ! What , Alderman ! No word of Putting Down ? Remember , Justice , your high moral boast and pride . 
Come , Alderman ! Balance those scales . 
how they croak their comfortable wickedness to raving heads and stricken hearts . 
What then ? The words rose up in Trotty's breast , as if they had been spoken by some other voice within him . 
Alderman Cute pledged himself to Mr. Fish that he would assist him in breaking the melancholy catastrophe to Sir Joseph when the day was over . 
, why such afflictions were allowed on earth . 
Deedles Brothers ! The skittle playing came off with immense success . 
At its proper time , the Banquet was served up . 
Trotty involuntarily repaired to the Hall with the rest , for he felt himself conducted thither by some stronger impulse than his own free will . 
The sight was gay in the extreme the ladies were very handsome the visitors delighted , cheerful , and good tempered . 
After some confusion , noise , and opposition , one man broke through the rest , and stood forward by himself . 
No. But one whom he had thought of , and had looked for , many times . 
'What is this ! exclaimed Sir Joseph , rising . 
'Who gave this man admittance ? This is a criminal from prison ! Mr. Fish , sir , WILL you have the goodness 'A minute ! said Will Fern . 
'A minute ! My Lady , you was born on this day along with a New Year . 
Get me a minute's leave to speak . 
She made some intercession for him . 
Sir Joseph took his seat again , with native dignity . 
The ragged visitor for he was miserably dressed looked round upon the company , and made his homage to them with a humble bow . 
Look at me ! 'Just come from jail , said Mr. Fish . 
'Just come from jail , said Will . 
'And neither for the first time , nor the second , nor the third , nor yet the fourth . 
Mr. Filer was heard to remark testily , that four times was over the average and he ought to be ashamed of himself . 
'Gentlefolks ! repeated Will Fern . 
'Look at me ! You see I'm at the worst . 
Let me say a word for these , pointing to the labouring people in the Hall 'and when you're met together , hear the real Truth spoke out for once . 
'There's not a man here , said the host , 'who would have him for a spokesman . 
'Like enough , Sir Joseph . 
Not the less true , perhaps , is what I say . 
Perhaps that's a proof on it . 
Gentlefolks , I've lived many a year in this place . 
You may see the cottage from the sunk fence over yonder . 
I've seen the ladies draw it in their books , a hundred times . 
It looks well in a picter , I've heerd say but there an't weather in picters , and maybe 'tis fitter for that , than for a place to live in . 
Well ! I lived there . 
How hard how bitter hard , I lived there , I won't say . 
Any day in the year , and every day , you can judge for your own selves . 
He spoke as he had spoken on the night when Trotty found him in the street . 
''Tis harder than you think for , gentlefolks , to grow up decent , commonly decent , in such a place . 
That I growed up a man and not a brute , says something for me as I was then . 
As I am now , there's nothing can be said for me or done for me . 
'I am glad this man has entered , observed Sir Joseph , looking round serenely . 
It appears to be Ordained . 
He is an example a living example . 
I hope and trust , and confidently expect , that it will not be lost upon my Friends here . 
'I dragged on , said Fern , after a moment's silence , 'somehow . 
Neither me nor any other man knows how but so heavy , that I couldn't put a cheerful face upon it , or make believe that I was anything but what I was . 
Now , gentlemen you gentlemen that sits at Sessions when you see a man with discontent writ on his face , you says to one another , He's suspicious . 
I has my doubts , says you , about Will Fern . 
Alderman Cute stuck his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets , and leaning back in his chair , and smiling , winked at a neighbouring chandelier . 
As much as to say , 'Of course ! I told you so . 
The common cry ! Lord bless you , we are up to all this sort of thing myself and human nature . 
I tries to live elsewhere . 
To jail with him ! I comes back here . 
I goes a nutting in your woods , and breaks who don't ? a limber branch or two . 
To jail with him ! One of your keepers sees me in the broad day , near my own patch of garden , with a gun . 
To jail with him ! I has a nat'ral angry word with that man , when I'm free again . 
To jail with him ! I cuts a stick . 
To jail with him ! I eats a rotten apple or a turnip . 
To jail with him ! It's twenty mile away and coming back I begs a trifle on the road . 
To jail with him ! At last , the constable , the keeper anybody finds me anywhere , a doing anything . 
To jail with him , for he's a vagrant , and a jail bird known and jail's the only home he's got . 
The Alderman nodded sagaciously , as who should say , 'A very good home too ! 'Do I say this to serve MY cause ! cried Fern . 
But , gentlemen , gentlemen , dealing with other men like me , begin at the right end . 
Trotty thought at first , that several had risen to eject the man and hence this change in its appearance . 
But , another moment showed him that the room and all the company had vanished from his sight , and that his daughter was again before him , seated at her work . 
But in a poorer , meaner garret than before and with no Lilian by her side . 
The frame at which she had worked , was put away upon a shelf and covered up . 
The chair in which she had sat , was turned against the wall . 
A history was written in these little things , and in Meg's grief worn face . 
Though he knew , poor Trotty , though he knew she could not hear him . 
A great part of the evening had worn away , when a knock came at her door . 
A man was on the threshold . 
He stopped until he had her leave to enter and she , retiring a pace of two from the open door , silently and sorrowfully looked upon him . 
'May I come in , Margaret ? 'Yes ! Come in . 
There were but two chairs in the room . 
She gave him hers , and stood at some short distance from him , waiting to hear what he had to say . 
He sat , however , staring vacantly at the floor with a lustreless and stupid smile . 
Roused by the rustling of her dress , or some such trifling sound , he lifted his head , and began to speak as if there had been no pause since he entered . 
'Still at work , Margaret ? You work late . 
'And early ? 'And early . 
She said you never tired or never owned that you tired . 
Not all the time you lived together . 
Not even when you fainted , between work and fasting . 
But I told you that , the last time I came . 
'You did , she answered . 
'And I implored you to tell me nothing more and you made me a solemn promise , Richard , that you never would . 
'A solemn promise , he repeated , with a drivelling laugh and vacant stare . 
'O , does she think of me so often ! Has she been again ! 'Twenty times again , said Richard . 
'Margaret , she haunts me . 
She comes behind me in the street , and thrusts it in my hand . 
, and before I can turn my head , her voice is in my ear , saying , Richard , don't look round . 
For Heaven's love , give her this ! She brings it where I live she sends it in letters she taps at the window and lays it on the sill . 
What CAN I do ? Look at it ! He held out in his hand a little purse , and chinked the money it enclosed . 
'Hide it , sad Meg . 
'Hide it ! When she comes again , tell her , Richard , that I love her in my soul . 
That I never lie down to sleep , but I bless her , and pray for her . 
That , in my solitary work , I never cease to have her in my thoughts . 
That she is with me , night and day . 
That if I died to morrow , I would remember her with my last breath . 
But , that I cannot look upon it ! He slowly recalled his hand , and crushing the purse together , said with a kind of drowsy thoughtfulness 'I told her so . 
I told her so , as plain as words could speak . 
I've taken this gift back and left it at her door , a dozen times since then . 
But when she came at last , and stood before me , face to face , what could I do ? 'You saw her ! exclaimed Meg . 
I heard her say it . 
Meg checked her sobs , and with the tears streaming from her eyes , bent over him to listen . 
Not to lose a breath . 
But you loved her once , even in my memory , dearly . 
'I did ! That's neither here nor there O Richard , if you ever did if you have any memory for what is gone and lost , take it to her once more . 
Once more ! Tell her how I laid my head upon your shoulder , where her own head might have lain , and was so humble to you , Richard . 
Tell her everything , and take it back , and she will not refuse again . 
She will not have the heart ! So he sat musing , and repeating the last words , until he woke again , and rose . 
'You won't take it , Margaret ? She shook her head , and motioned an entreaty to him to leave her . 
'Good night ! He turned to look upon her struck by her sorrow , and perhaps by the pity for himself which trembled in her voice . 
It was a quick and rapid action and for the moment some flash of his old bearing kindled in his form . 
In the next he went as he had come . 
Nor did this glimmer of a quenched fire seem to light him to a quicker sense of his debasement . 
In any mood , in any grief , in any torture of the mind or body , Meg's work must be done . 
She sat down to her task , and plied it . 
She had a meagre fire , the night being very cold and rose at intervals to mend it . 
The Chimes rang half past twelve while she was thus engaged and when they ceased she heard a gentle knocking at the door . 
Before she could so much as wonder who was there , at that unusual hour , it opened . 
O Youth and Beauty , happy as ye should be , look at this . 
Never more ! When I first looked into your face , you knelt before me . 
On my knees before you , let me die . 
Let it be here ! 'You have come back . 
And with her arms twined round she knew it now a broken heart . 
'His blessing on you , dearest love . 
Kiss me once more ! He suffered her to sit beside His feet , and dry them with her hair . 
Fat company , rosy cheeked company , comfortable company . 
They were but two , but they were red enough for ten . 
A little shop , quite crammed and choked with the abundance of its stock a perfectly voracious little shop , with a maw as accommodating and full as any shark's . 
The features of her companion were less easy to him . 
There was no record of his name . 
'Blowing and sleeting hard , returned his wife 'and threatening snow . 
'I'm glad to think we had muffins , said the former porter , in the tone of one who had set his conscience at rest . 
'It's a sort of night that's meant for muffins . 
The former porter mentioned each successive kind of eatable , as if he were musingly summing up his good actions . 
After which he rubbed his fat legs as before , and jerking them at the knees to get the fire upon the yet unroasted parts , laughed as if somebody had tickled him . 
'You're in spirits , Tugby , my dear , observed his wife . 
The firm was Tugby , late Chickenstalker . 
Nor were they reduced to anything like decorum until Mrs. Tugby had thumped him violently on the back , and shaken him as if he were a great bottle . 
'Good gracious , goodness , lord a mercy bless and save the man ! cried Mrs. Tugby , in great terror . 
'What's he doing ? Mr. Tugby wiped his eyes , and faintly repeated that he found himself a little elewated . 
'Hard weather indeed , returned his wife , shaking her head . 
'Aye , aye ! Years , said Mr. Tugby , 'are like Christians in that respect . 
Some of 'em die hard some of 'em die easy . 
This one hasn't many days to run , and is making a fight for it . 
I like him all the better . 
There's a customer , my love ! Attentive to the rattling door , Mrs. Tugby had already risen . 
'Now then ! said that lady , passing out into the little shop . 
'What's wanted ? Oh ! I beg your pardon , sir , I'm sure . 
I didn't think it was you . 
'This is a bad business up stairs , Mrs. Tugby , said the gentleman . 
'Not the back attic can't ! cried Tugby , coming out into the shop to join the conference . 
'The back attic , Mr. Tugby , said the gentleman , 'is coming down stairs fast , and will be below the basement very soon . 
'The back attic , Mr. Tugby , said the gentleman Tugby having stood in silent consternation for some time 'is Going . 
'Then , said Tugby , turning to his wife , 'he must Go , you know , before he's Gone . 
'I don't think you can move him , said the gentleman , shaking his head . 
'I wouldn't take the responsibility of saying it could be done , myself . 
You had better leave him where he is . 
Going to die upon the premises . 
Going to die in our house ! 'And where should he have died , Tugby ? cried his wife . 
'In the workhouse , he returned . 
'What are workhouses made for ? 'Not for that , said Mrs. Tugby , with great energy . 
'Not for that ! Neither did I marry you for that . 
Don't think it , Tugby . 
I'd be separated first , and never see your face again . 
Knowing nothing yet , but that they spoke of Meg . 
How did she come to marry him ? 'Why that , said Mrs. Tugby , taking a seat near him , 'is not the least cruel part of her story , sir . 
You see they kept company , she and Richard , many years ago . 
When they were a young and beautiful couple , everything was settled , and they were to have been married on a New Year's Day . 
And in short , they lingered and lingered , and their trust in one another was broken , and so at last was the match . 
But the fault was his . 
She would have married him , sir , joyfully . 
'Well , sir , I don't know that he rightly understood himself , you see . 
'I'm coming to it , sir , in a moment . 
This went on for years and years he sinking lower and lower she enduring , poor thing , miseries enough to wear her life away . 
At last , he was so cast down , and cast out , that no one would employ or notice him and doors were shut upon him , go where he would . 
Something like that , in his anger and vexation . 
'Ah ! said the gentleman . 
'And she ? Don't distress yourself , Mrs. Tugby . 
'She came to me that night to ask me about living here . 
What he was once to me , she said , is buried in a grave , side by side with what I was to him . 
But I have thought of this and I will make the trial . 
who was to have been married on a New Year's Day and for the love of her Richard . 
And she said he had come to her from Lilian , and Lilian had trusted to him , and she never could forget that . 
I think he has always felt for her . 
I am sure he has . 
I have seen him , in his crying fits and tremblings , try to kiss her hand and I have heard him call her Meg , and say it was her nineteenth birthday . 
There he has been lying , now , these weeks and months . 
'Like Fighting Cocks ! He was interrupted by a cry a sound of lamentation from the upper story of the house . 
The gentleman moved hurriedly to the door . 
'My friend , he said , looking back , 'you needn't discuss whether he shall be removed or not . 
He has spared you that trouble , I believe . 
Trotty , with the child beside him , floated up the staircase like mere air . 
'Follow her ! Follow her ! Follow her ! He heard the ghostly voices in the Bells repeat their words as he ascended . 
'Learn it , from the creature dearest to your heart ! It was over . 
Who can tell how spare , how sickly , and how poor an infant ! Who can tell how dear ! 'Thank God ! cried Trotty , holding up his folded hands . 
It's better as it is ! Mrs. Tugby tried to comfort her with kindness . 
'Come , come ! he said , with his hands in his pockets , 'you mustn't give way , you know . 
'Follow her ! it said . 
He hovered round her sat down at her feet looked up into her face for one trace of her old self listened for one note of her old pleasant voice . 
He flitted round the child so wan , so prematurely old , so dreadful in its gravity , so plaintive in its feeble , mournful , miserable wail . 
He clung to it as her only safeguard as the last unbroken link that bound her to endurance . 
Patient ! Was its loving mother in her inmost heart and soul , and had its Being knitted up with hers as when she carried it unborn . 
All this time , she was in want languishing away , in dire and pining want . 
She loved it more and more . 
But a change fell on the aspect of her love . 
She was singing faintly to it in its sleep , and walking to and fro to hush it , when her door was softly opened , and a man looked in . 
'For the last time , he said . 
'William Fern ! 'For the last time . 
He listened like a man pursued and spoke in whispers . 
'Margaret , my race is nearly run . 
I couldn't finish it , without a parting word with you . 
'What have you done ? she asked regarding him with terror . 
He looked at her , but gave no answer . 
We little thought , then , he added , looking round , 'that we should ever meet like this . 
Your child , Margaret ? Let me have it in my arms . 
Let me hold your child . 
He put his hat upon the floor , and took it . 
And he trembled as he took it , from head to foot . 
'Is it a girl ? 'Yes . 
He put his hand before its little face . 
'See how weak I'm grown , Margaret , when I want the courage to look at it ! Let her be , a moment . 
It's long ago , but What's her name ? 'Margaret , she answered , quickly . 
'I'm glad of that , he said . 
'I'm glad of that ! He seemed to breathe more freely and after pausing for an instant , took away his hand , and looked upon the infant's face . 
But covered it again , immediately . 
'Margaret ! he said and gave her back the child . 
'Lilian's ! 'I held the same face in my arms when Lilian's mother died and left her . 
'When Lilian's mother died and left her ! she repeated , wildly . 
Sometimes , she released it from her embrace , to look anxiously in its face then strained it to her bosom again . 
At those times , when she gazed upon it , then it was that something fierce and terrible began to mingle with her love . 
Then it was that her old father quailed . 
'Follow her ! was sounded through the house . 
'Learn it , from the creature dearest to your heart ! 'Margaret , said Fern , bending over her , and kissing her upon the brow 'I thank you for the last time . 
Good bye ! Put your hand in mine , and tell me you'll forget me from this hour , and try to think the end of me was here . 
'What have you done ? she asked again . 
'There'll be a Fire to night , he said , removing from her . 
'There'll be Fires this winter time , to light the dark nights , East , West , North , and South . 
When you see the distant sky red , they'll be blazing . 
Good bye ! She called to him but he was gone . 
She sat down stupefied , until her infant roused her to a sense of hunger , cold , and darkness . 
She paced the room with it the livelong night , hushing it and soothing it . 
She'll never cease to love it . 
It was the last day of the Old Year . 
She tried till night , and never broke her fast . 
Here , too , she failed . 
She loved her child , and wished to have it lying on her breast . 
And that was quite enough . 
It was night a bleak , dark , cutting night when , pressing the child close to her for warmth , she arrived outside the house she called her home . 
She was so faint and giddy , that she saw no one standing in the doorway until she was close upon it , and about to enter . 
Then , she recognised the master of the house , who had so disposed himself with his person it was not difficult as to fill up the whole entry . 
'O ! he said softly . 
'You have come back ? She looked at the child , and shook her head . 
She repeated the same mute appeal . 
'Suppose you try and deal somewhere else , he said . 
'And suppose you provide yourself with another lodging . 
Come ! Don't you think you could manage it ? She said in a low voice , that it was very late . 
'Now I see what you want , said Tugby 'and what you mean . 
You know there are two parties in this house about you , and you delight in setting 'em by the ears . 
But you shan't come in . 
She put her hair back with her hand , and looked in a sudden manner at the sky , and the dark lowering distance . 
'I wonder you an't ashamed of yourself , to carry such practices into a New Year . 
If you haven't any business in the world , but to be always giving way , and always making disturbances between man and wife , you'd be better out of it . 
'Follow her ! To desperation ! Again the old man heard the voices . 
Looking up , he saw the figures hovering in the air , and pointing where she went , down the dark street . 
'She loves it ! he exclaimed , in agonised entreaty for her . 
'Chimes ! she loves it still ! 'Follow her ! The shadow swept upon the track she had taken , like a cloud . 
He joined in the pursuit he kept close to her he looked into her face . 
He saw the same fierce and terrible expression mingling with her love , and kindling in her eyes . 
He heard her say , 'Like Lilian ! To be changed like Lilian ! and her speed redoubled . 
The air was made of breath expended in those words . 
He seemed to take them in , at every gasp he drew . 
They were everywhere , and not to be escaped . 
And still she hurried on the same light in her eyes , the same words in her mouth , 'Like Lilian ! To be changed like Lilian ! All at once she stopped . 
'Now , turn her back ! exclaimed the old man , tearing his white hair . 
'My child ! Meg ! Turn her back ! Great Father , turn her back ! In her own scanty shawl , she wrapped the baby warm . 
With her fevered hands , she smoothed its limbs , composed its face , arranged its mean attire . 
In her wasted arms she folded it , as though she never would resign it more . 
And with her dry lips , kissed it in a final pang , and last long agony of Love . 
To the rolling River , swift and dim , where Winter Night sat brooding like the last dark thoughts of many who had sought a refuge there before her . 
Where scattered lights upon the banks gleamed sullen , red , and dull , as torches that were burning there , to show the way to Death . 
Where no abode of living people cast its shadow , on the deep , impenetrable , melancholy shade . 
To the River ! To that portal of Eternity , her desperate footsteps tended with the swiftness of its rapid waters running to the sea . 
She paused a moment on the brink , before the dreadful plunge . 
He fell down on his knees , and in a shriek addressed the figures in the Bells now hovering above them . 
'I have learnt it ! cried the old man . 
The figures looked down steadfastly upon him . 
'I have learnt it ! cried the old man . 
He felt his hold relaxing . 
There is no loving mother on the earth who might not come to this , if such a life had gone before . 
His strength was like a giant's . 
'I see the Spirit of the Chimes among you ! cried the old man , singling out the child , and speaking in some inspiration , which their looks conveyed to him . 
'I know that our inheritance is held in store for us by Time . 
I know there is a sea of Time to rise one day , before which all who wrong us or oppress us will be swept away like leaves . 
I see it , on the flow ! I know that we must trust and hope , and neither doubt ourselves , nor doubt the good in one another . 
I have learnt it from the creature dearest to my heart . 
I clasp her in my arms again . 
But , he caught his feet in the newspaper , which had fallen on the hearth and somebody came rushing in between them . 
'No ! cried the voice of this same somebody a generous and jolly voice it was ! 'Not even you . 
The first kiss of Meg in the New Year is mine . 
Mine ! I have been waiting outside the house , this hour , to hear the Bells and claim it . 
Meg , my precious prize , a happy year ! A life of happy years , my darling wife ! And Richard smothered her with kisses . 
You never in all your life saw anything like Trotty after this . 
'And to morrow's your wedding day , my pet ! cried Trotty . 
'Your real , happy wedding day ! 'To day ! cried Richard , shaking hands with him . 
The Chimes are ringing in the New Year . 
'You and Richard had some words to day . 
'Because he's such a bad fellow , father , said Meg . 
Doing it too ! 'No . 
Not a bit more , said Meg . 
'But I wouldn't let him , father . 
Where would have been the use ! 'Richard my boy ! cried Trotty . 
And thinking that you might miss me , and be lonely . 
Trotty was backing off to that extraordinary chair again , when the child , who had been awakened by the noise , came running in half dressed . 
'Why , here she is ! cried Trotty , catching her up . 
then stepped forward , and said 'Trotty Veck , my boy ! It's got about , that your daughter is going to be married to morrow . 
There an't a soul that knows you that don't wish you well , or that knows her and don't wish her well . 
Or that knows you both , and don't wish you both all the happiness the New Year can bring . 
And here we are , to play it in and dance it in , accordingly . 
Which was received with a general shout . 
The Drum was rather drunk , by the bye but , never mind . 
'What a happiness it is , I'm sure , said Trotty , 'to be so esteemed ! How kind and neighbourly you are ! It's all along of my dear daughter . 
Trotty said , 'It's Mrs. Chickenstalker ! And sat down and beat his knees again . 
'Married , and not tell me , Meg ! cried the good woman . 
'Never ! I couldn't rest on the last night of the Old Year without coming to wish you joy . 
I couldn't have done it , Meg . 
Not if I had been bed ridden . 
Mrs. Chickenstalker's notion of a little flip did honour to her character . 
The pitcher steamed and smoked and reeked like a volcano and the man who had carried it , was faint . 
Tugby ! said Trotty , who had been going round and round her , in an ecstasy . 
The worthy dame , to his surprise , turned very pale and very red . 
'Not Lilian Fern whose mother died in Dorsetshire ! said she . 
'Will Fern ! said Trotty , pulling on his right hand muffler . 
'Not the friend you was hoping to find ? 'Ay ! returned Will , putting a hand on each of Trotty's shoulders . 
'And like to prove a'most as good a friend , if that can be , as one I found . 
'Please to play up there . 
