The Contrast by Royall Tyler A Comedy WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY THOMAS J. McKEE INTRODUCTION . 
THE 'Contrast' was the first American play ever performed in public by a company of professional actors . 
, and was printed in , two years after the author's death . 
A comedy called the 'Mercenary Match , by one Barnabas Bidwell , is said to have been performed by the students at Yale College , under the auspices of the Rev . 
Ezra Styles , President of the College . 
Dun lap speaks of having heard it read , but does not men tion whether it was from a manuscript or printed copy . 
It was printed at New Haven in . 
The 'Contrast , however , was the first to meet suc cessfully the critical judgment and approval of a pro fessional manager . 
This fact alone should redeem it from the neglect and inattention it has heretofore met with . 
Thoroughly natural in its plan and characters , it was a bold venture of a young writer in a new literary domain . 
The character of Jonathan is a thoroughly original conception nothing of the typical Yankee , since so familiar and popular , had as yet appeared , either on the stage or in print . 
Royall Tyler , the author of the 'Contrast , was born at Boston , Mass . 
, July , , and belonged to one of the wealthiest and most influential families of New England . 
another play from his pen , called 'A Good Spec , or Land in the Moon , was produced . 
I have been unable to ascertain whether either 'May day' or 'A Good Spec' was ever printed or not . 
Up to the time it first appeared , the drama here had met with few friends , and but little favor . 
But immediately after the production of the 'Contrast , a radical change of opinion in respect to the drama is apparent . 
There was some interference on the part of the authorities , but the new theater was erected and performances publicly given there , while the prohibitory law became a dead letter . 
The illustration to the song of Alknomook is from music published contemporaneously with the play . 
This song had long the popularity of a national air and was familiar in every drawing room in the early part of the century . 
Its authorship has been accredited both to Philip Freneau and to Mrs. Hunter , the wife of the celebrated English physician , John Hunter . 
Mrs. Hunter's poems were not printed till , and the version of the song there printed is an exact copy as given in the play . 
This song also ap peared in a play , entitled , 'New Spain , or Love in Mexico , published at Dublin in . 
After consider able research , I have become convinced that Alkno mook is the offspring of Tyler's genius . 
THOMAS J. MCKEE THE CONTRAST A COMEDY IN FIVE ACTS WRITTEN BY A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES Primus ego in patriam Aonio deduxi vertice Musas . 
First on our shores I try THALIA'S powers , And bid the laughing , useful Maid be ours . 
Our Author pictures not from foreign climes The fashions or the follies of the times But has confin'd the subject of his work To the gay scenes the circles of New York . 
On native themes his Muse displays her pow'rs If ours the faults , the virtues too are ours . 
Strange ! We should thus our native worth disclaim , And check the progress of our rising fame . 
Yet one , whilst imitation bears the sway , Aspires to nobler heights , and points the way . 
The bold attempt alone demands applause . 
Still may the wisdom of the Comic Muse Exalt your merits , or your faults accuse . 
But think not , tis her aim to be severe We all are mortals , and as mortals err . 
If candour pleases , we are truly blest Vice trembles , when compell'd to stand confess'd . 
Let not light Censure on your faults offend , Which aims not to expose them , but amend . 
Thus does our Author to your candour trust Conscious , the free are generous , as just . 
Characters New York Maryland Col . 
SERVANTS SCENE , NEW YORK . 
ACT I. Scene , an Apartment at CHARLOTTE'S . 
LETITIA AND so , Charlotte , you really think the pocket hoop unbecoming . 
CHARLOTTE No , I don't say so . 
LETITIA Well , I won't argue with you you always out talk me let us change the subject . 
I hear that Mr. Dim ple and Maria are soon to be married . 
I was consulted in the choice of the wedding clothes . 
She is to be married in a delicate white sattin , and has a monstrous pretty brocaded lutestring for the second day . 
LETITIA But they say her indifference to dress , and even to the gentleman himself , is not entirely affected . 
CHARLOTTE How ? LETITIA It is whispered that if Maria gives her hand to Mr. Dimple , it will be without her heart . 
, was the most intimate friend of Maria's father . 
The old folks , about a year before Mr. Van Dumpling's death , proposed this match the young folks were accordingly introduced , and told they must love one another . 
Billy was then a good natured , decent dress ing young fellow , with a little dash of the coxcomb , such as our young fellows of fortune usually have . 
CHARLOTTE Why did they not then marry ? LETITIA Upon the death of his father , Billy went to England to see the world and rub off a little of the patroon rust . 
CHARLOTTE How ? Oh ! I have it some likely young beau found the way to her study . 
LETITIA Be patient , Charlotte your head so runs upon beaux . 
Why , she read Sir Charles Grandison , Clarissa Harlow , Shenstone , and the Sentimental Journey and between whiles , as I said , Billy's letters . 
But , as her taste improved , her love declined . 
Clary Harlow would have scorned such a match . 
CHARLOTTE Well , how was it on Mr. Dimple's return ? Did he meet a more favourable reception than his letters ? LETITIA Much the same . 
She spoke of him with respect abroad , and with contempt in her closet . 
Oh ! my dear girl , you are a monstrous prude . 
LETITIA I don't say what I would do I only intimate how I suppose she wishes to act . 
CHARLOTTE No , no , no ! A fig for sentiment . 
If she breaks , or wishes to break , with Mr. Dimple , depend upon it , she has some other man in her eye . 
A woman rarely dis cards one lover until she is sure of another . 
Letitia little thinks what a clue I have to Dimple's conduct . 
The generous man submits to render himself disgust ing to Maria , in order that she may leave him at lib erty to address me . 
I must change the subject . 
Aside , and rings a bell . 
Frank , order the horses to . 
CHARLOTTE I do not know how that is , but you may depend upon it , 'tis a done affair . 
I have it from the best au thority . 
There is my aunt Wyerly's Hannah . 
You know Hannah though a black , she is a wench that was never caught in a lie in her life . 
Now , as she is to be married , who can it be to but to Mr. Indigo ? Why , there is no other gentleman that visits at her papa's . 
LETITIA Say not a word more , Charlotte . 
Your intelligence is so direct and well grounded , it is almost a pity that it is not a piece of scandal . 
CHARLOTTE Oh ! I am the pink of prudence . 
It is true , there is infinite pleasure in this charitable pursuit . 
Ha , ha , ha ! LETITIA Ha , ha , ha ! Well , but , Charlotte , you don't tell me what you think of Miss Bloomsbury's match . 
CHARLOTTE Think ! why I think it is probable she cried for a plaything , and they have given her a husband . 
Well , well , well , the puling chit shall not be deprived of her plaything 'tis only exchanging London dolls for American babies . 
Don't you remember ? Enter SERVANT . 
Madam , the carriage is ready . 
LETITIA Shall we go to the stores first , or visiting ? CHARLOTTE I should think it rather too early to visit , especially Mrs. Prim you know she is so particular . 
LETITIA Well , but what of Mrs. Affable ? CHARLOTTE Oh , I'll tell you as we go come , come , let us hasten . 
I hear Mrs. Catgut has some of the prettiest caps arrived you ever saw . 
I shall die if I have not the first sight of them . 
page intentionally blank illustration omitted SCENE II . 
A Room in VAN ROUGH'S House MARIA sitting disconsolate at a Table , with Books , c . 
There is something in this song which ever calls forth my affections . 
The prepossession which our sex is supposed to entertain for the character of a soldier is , I know , a standing piece of raillery among the wits . 
A cockade , a lapell'd coat , and a feather , they will tell you , are irresistible by a female heart . 
Alas ! how little of the former do we find ! How inconsis tent ! that man should be leagued to destroy that honour upon which solely rests his respect and esteem . 
Mary ! Ha ! my father's voice Sir ! Enter VAN ROUGH . 
VAN ROUGH What , Mary , always singing doleful ditties , and moping over these plaguy books . 
MARIA I hope , Sir , that it is not criminal to improve my mind with books , or to divert my melancholy with singing , at my leisure hours . 
VAN ROUGH Why , I don't know that , child I don't know that . 
Now , what good have these books done you ? have they not made you melancholy ? as you call it . 
VAN ROUGH Pho , pho , pho ! child nonsense , downright non sense , child . 
This comes of your reading your story books your Charles Grandisons , your Sentimental Journals , and your Robinson Crusoes , and such other trumpery . 
No , no , no ! child it is money makes the mare go keep your eye upon the main chance , Mary . 
MARIA Marriage , Sir , is , indeed , a very serious affair . 
VAN ROUGH You are right , child you are right . 
I am sure I found it so , to my cost . 
MARIA I mean , Sir , that as marriage is a portion for life , and so intimately involves our happiness , we cannot be too considerate in the choice of our companion . 
VAN ROUGH Right , child very right . 
Solomon says that there is a time to laugh , and a time to weep . 
Now , a time for a young woman to laugh is when she has made sure of a good rich husband . 
MARIA My honoured mother , Sir , had no motive to mel ancholy she married the man of her choice . 
I'd have you to know , Mary , if you won't make young Van Dumpling the man of your choice , you shall marry him as the man of my choice . 
MARIA You terrify me , Sir . 
Indeed , Sir , I am all submission . 
VAN ROUGH Why , that is the way your mother us'd to talk . 
My will is yours , my dear Mr. Van Rough , my will is yours but she took special care to have her own way , though , for all that . 
I'll see you well settled in the world . 
MARIA I do not doubt your love , Sir , and it is my duty to obey you . 
I will endeavour to make my duty and inclination go hand in hand . 
VAN ROUGH Well , Well , Mary do you be a good girl , mind the main chance , and never mind inclination . 
It was well worth sixty pounds but I over reach'd Ben Bulkhead , the supercargo . 
I'll tell you the whole story . 
You must know that Enter SERVANT . 
Sir , Mr. Transfer , the broker is below . 
VAN ROUGH Well , Mary , I must go . 
Remember , and be a good girl , and mind the main chance . 
At a father's command , I could embrace poverty . 
END OF THE FIRST ACT . 
SCENE I. Enter CHARLOTTE and LETITIA . 
BETTY , take those things out of the carriage and carry them to my chamber see that you don't tumble them . 
My dear , I protest , I think it was the home liest of the whole . 
I declare I was almost tempted to return and change it . 
LETITIA Why would you take it ? CHARLOTTE Didn't Mrs. Catgut say it was the most fashionable ? LETITIA But , my dear , it will never fit becomingly on you . 
CHARLOTTE Lud ! Letitia , is that so extraordinary ? Why , my dear , I hope you are not going to turn sentimentalist . 
SERVANT enters and delivers a letter to CHAR LOTTE , and Exit . 
CHARLOTTE You'll excuse me , my dear . 
Opens and reads to herself . 
LETITIA Oh , quite excusable . 
CHARLOTTE As I hope to be married , my brother Henry is in the city . 
LETITIA What , your brother , Colonel Manly ? CHARLOTTE Yes , my dear the only brother I have in the world . 
LETITIA Was he never in this city ? CHARLOTTE Never nearer than Harlem Heights , where he lay with his regiment . 
And thus , whilst he is plucking the briars and thorns from the path of the unfortunate , I am strewing my own path with roses . 
LETITIA My sweet friend , not quite so poetical , and a little more particular . 
CHARLOTTE Hands off , Letitia . 
I feel the rage of simile upon me I can't talk to you in any other way . 
LETITIA By what I can pick out of your flowery description , your brother is no beau . 
CHARLOTTE No , indeed he makes no pretension to the char acter . 
I'll tell you one of his antiquated , anti gallant notions . 
I protest I was crimson to the eyes , upon reflecting that I was known as his sister . 
LETITIA Insupportable creature ! tell a lady of her faults ! if he is so grave , I fear I have no chance of captivating him . 
CHARLOTTE His conversation is like a rich , old fashioned bro cade , it will stand alone every sentence is a sen timent . 
Now you may judge what a time I had with him , in my twelve months' visit to my father . 
You captivate him ! Why , my dear , he would as soon fall in love with a box of Italian flowers . 
There is Maria , now , if she were not engaged , she might do something . 
LETITIA Oh ! my dear fanciful CHARLOTTE Hush ! I hear some person coming through the entry . 
Madam , there's a gentleman below who calls him self Colonel Manly do you chuse to be at home ? CHARLOTTE Shew him in . 
Now for a sober face . 
MANLY My dear Charlotte , I am happy that I once more enfold you within the arms of fraternal affection . 
how our parents do , the venerable pair transmit you their blessing by me . 
They totter on the verge of a well spent life , and wish only to see their children settled in the world , to depart in peace . 
CHARLOTTE I am very happy to hear that they are well . 
Brother , will you give me leave to introduce you to our uncle's ward , one of my most intimate friends ? MANLY saluting Letitia . 
I ought to regard your friends as my own . 
CHARLOTTE Come , Letitia , do give us a little dash of your vivacity my brother is so sentimental and so grave , that I protest he'll give us the vapours . 
CHARLOTTE Well , well , brother if you won't be gay , we'll not differ I will be as grave as you wish . 
CHARLOTTE Then you won't have occasion to do a very good thing . 
I may be romantic , but I preserve them as a sacred deposit . 
But , however , I must , I believe , introduce you to two or three ladies of my acquaintance . 
LETITIA And that will make him acquainted with thirty or forty beaux . 
CHARLOTTE Oh ! brother , you don't know what a fund of happi ness you have in store . 
MANLY I fear , sister , I have not refinement sufficient to enjoy it . 
CHARLOTTE Oh ! you cannot fail being pleased . 
LETITIA Our ladies are so delicate and dressy . 
CHARLOTTE And our beaux so dressy and delicate . 
LETITIA Our ladies chat and flirt so agreeably . 
CHARLOTTE And our beaux simper and bow so gracefully . 
LETITIA With their hair so trim and neat . 
CHARLOTTE And their faces so soft and sleek . 
LETITIA Their buckles so tonish and bright . 
CHARLOTTE And their hands so slender and white . 
LETITIA I vow , Charlotte , we are quite poetical . 
Oh ! that you could be with us at a little snug party . 
Everything is conducted with such decorum . 
Oh ! the sentimental charms of a side box conversation ! All laugh . 
CHARLOTTE Well , but , brother , positively I can't introduce you in these clothes why , your coat looks as if it were calculated for the vulgar purpose of keeping yourself comfortable . 
MANLY This coat was my regimental coat in the late war . 
The public tumults of our state have induced me to buckle on the sword in support of that government which I once fought to establish . 
CHARLOTTE We agree in opinion entirely , brother , though it would not have done for me to have said it it is the coat makes the man respectable . 
And pray direct the taylor to make yours the height of the fashion . 
You know my sentiments on that subject . 
I have often lamented the advantage which the French have over us in that particular . 
In America , the cry is , what is the fashion ? and we follow it indiscriminately , because it is so . 
Ladies , I must wish you a good morning . 
CHARLOTTE But , brother , you are going to make home with us . 
I have seen my uncle and explained that matter . 
CHARLOTTE Come and dine with us , then . 
We have a family dinner about half past four o'clock . 
MANLY I am engaged to dine with the Spanish ambassador . 
Sister , adieu Madam , your most obedient Exit . 
CHARLOTTE I will wait upon you to the door , brother I have something particular to say to you . 
What a pair ! She the pink of flirtation , he the essence of everything that is outre and gloomy . 
I think I have completely deceived Charlotte by my manner of speaking of Mr. Dimple she's too much the friend of Maria to be confided in . 
He is certainly rendering himself disagreeable to Maria , in order to break with her and proffer his hand to me . 
This is what the delicate fellow hinted in our last conversation . 
Positively this Mall is a very pretty place . 
I hope the cits won't ruin it by repairs . 
Ah ! who comes here ? This , by his awkwardness , must be the Yankee colonel's servant . 
JESSAMY Votre tres humble serviteur , Monsieur . 
I under stand Colonel Manly , the Yankee officer , has the honour of your services . 
JONATHAN Sir ! JESSAMY I say , Sir , I understand that Colonel Manly has the honour of having you for a servant . 
JONATHAN Servant ! Sir , do you take me for a neger , I am Colonel Manly's waiter . 
JESSAMY A true Yankee distinction , egad , without a differ ence . 
Father said I should come as Colonel Manly's waiter , to see the world , and all that but no man shall master me . 
My father has as good a farm as the colonel . 
We lodge under the same roof , and should be glad of the honour of your acquaintance . 
JONATHAN You a waiter ! by the living jingo , you look so top ping , I took you for one of the agents to Congress . 
JESSAMY The brute has discernment , notwithstanding his appearance . 
Give me leave to say I wonder then at your familiarity . 
JONATHAN Why , as to the matter of that , Mr. pray , what's your name ? JESSAMY Jessamy , at your service . 
JONATHAN Why , I swear we don't make any great matter of distinction in our state between quality and other folks . 
JESSAMY This is , indeed , a levelling principle . 
I hope , Mr. Jonathan , you have not taken part with the insurgents . 
JESSAMY I thought , Mr. Jonathan , you Massachusetts men always argued with a gun in your hand . 
They said as how the leaden man was a damn'd tory , and that he took wit in his anger and rode off in the time of the troubles . 
JESSAMY But this was not the end of your excursion ? JONATHAN Oh , no I went to a place they call Holy Ground . 
At last I spied a young gentlewoman standing by one of the seats which they have here at the doors . 
JESSAMY Why , my dear friend , you are not acquainted with the city that girl you saw was a whispers . 
We have a number of elegant , fine girls here that make a man's leisure hours pass very agreeably . 
I would esteem it an honour to announce you to some of them . 
Gad ! that announce is a select word I won der where I picked it up . 
JONATHAN I don't want to know them . 
JESSAMY Come , come , my dear friend , I see that I must assume the honour of being the director of your amuse ments . 
Nature has given us passions , and youth and opportunity stimulate to gratify them . 
It is no shame , my dear Blueskin , for a man to amuse himself with a little gallantry . 
JONATHAN Girl huntry ! I don't altogether understand . 
I never played at that game . 
I know how to play hunt the squirrel , but I can't play anything with the girls I am as good as married . 
So you are married ? JONATHAN No , I don't say so I said I was as good as mar ried , a kind of promise . 
JONATHAN Why , as to fortune , I must needs say her father is pretty dumb rich he went representative for our town last year . 
JONATHAN You don't say so ! JESSAMY Yes , and I'll introduce to one of them . 
There is a little lump of flesh and delicacy that lives at next door , waitress to Miss Maria we often see her on the stoop . 
I say there can be no doubt that the brilliancy of your merit will secure you a favourable reception . 
Say to her ! Why , when a man goes a courting , and hopes for success , he must begin with doing , and not saying . 
JONATHAN Well , what must I do ? JESSAMY Why , when you are introduced you must make five or six elegant bows . 
JONATHAN Well , if I follow all your plans , make them six bows , and all that , shall I have such little cherubim conse quences ? JESSAMY Undoubtedly . 
But I must hasten to my master . 
Adieu , my dear friend . 
JONATHAN Stay , Mr. Jessamy must I buss her when I am introduced to her ? JESSAMY I told you , you must kiss her . 
JONATHAN Well , but must I buss her ? JESSAMY Why , kiss and buss , and buss and kiss , is all one . 
JONATHAN Oh ! my dear friend , though you have a profound knowledge of all , a pugnency of tribulation , you don't know everything . 
Well , certainly I improve my master could not have insinuated himself with more address into the heart of a man he despised . 
Now will this blundering dog sicken Jenny with his nauseous pawings , until she flies into my arms for very ease . 
How sweet will the contrast be between the blundering Jonathan and the courtly and accomplished Jessamy ! END OF THE SECOND ACT . 
DIMPLE discovered at a Toilet , Reading . 
WOMEN have in general but one object , which is their beauty . 
Very true , my lord positively very true . 
Nature has hardly formed a woman ugly enough to be insensible to flattery upon her person . 
Extremely just , my lord every day's delightful ex perience confirms this . 
If her face is so shocking that she must , in some degree , be conscious of it , her figure and air , she thinks , make ample amends for it . 
The sallow Miss Wan is a proof of this . 
If her figure is deformed , she thinks her face counterbalances it . 
DIMPLE Where got you these , Jessamy ? JESSAMY Sir , the English packet is arrived . 
DIMPLE opens and reads a letter enclosing notes . 
Sir , I have drawn bills on you in favour of Messrs . 
I have taken up your note to Col . 
Piquet , and discharged your debts to my Lord Lurcher and Sir Harry Rook . 
I here with enclose you copies of the bills , which I have no doubt will be immediately honoured . 
On failure , I shall empower some lawyer in your country to recover the amounts . 
I am , Sir , Your most humble servant , JOHN HAZARD . 
Now , did not my lord expressly say that it was un becoming a well bred man to be in a passion , I confess I should be ruffled . 
There is no accident so unfortunate , which a wise man may not turn to his advantage nor any accident so fortunate , which a fool will not turn to his disadvantage . 
True , my lord but how advantage can be derived from this I can't see . 
Chesterfield himself , who made , however , the worst practice of the most excellent precepts , was never in so embarrassing a situation . 
I love the per son of Charlotte , and it is necessary I should com mand the fortune of Letitia . 
As to Maria ! I doubt not by my sang froid behaviour I shall compel her to decline the match but the blame must not fall upon me . 
A prudent man , as my lord says , should take all the credit of a good action to himself , and throw the discredit of a bad one upon others . 
I must break with Maria , marry Letitia , and as for Charlotte why , Charlotte must be a companion to my wife . 
Here , Jessamy ! Enter JESSAMY . 
DIMPLE folds and seals two letters . 
DIMPLE Here , Jessamy , take this letter to my love . 
JESSAMY To which of your honour's loves ? Oh ! reading to Miss Letitia , your honour's rich love . 
DIMPLE And this delivers another to Miss Charlotte Manly . 
See that you deliver them privately . 
JESSAMY Yes , your honour . 
I have had one of the most outre con versations with him ! He really has a most prodig ious effect upon my risibility . 
DIMPLE I ought , according to every rule of Chesterfield , to wait on him and insinuate myself into his good graces . 
Jessamy , wait on the colonel with my com pliments , and if he is disengaged I will do myself the honour of paying him my respects . 
Some ignorant , unpolished boor JESSAMY goes off and returns . 
JESSAMY Sir , the colonel is gone out , and Jonathan his ser vant says that he is gone to stretch his legs upon the Mall . 
Stretch his legs ! what an indelicacy of diction ! DIMPLE Very well . 
Reach me my hat and sword . 
I'll ac cost him there , in my way to Letitia's , as by accident pretend to be struck by his person and address , and endeavour to steal into his confidence . 
Jessamy , I have no business for you at present . 
JESSAMY taking up the book . 
My master and I obtain our knowledge from the same source though , gad ! I think myself much the prettier fellow of the two . 
Surveying himself in the glass . 
That was a brilliant thought , to insinuate that I folded my master's letters for him the folding is so neat , that it does honour to the operator . 
I once in tended to have insinuated that I wrote his letters too but that was before I saw them it won't do now no honour there , positively . 
Segments of circles ! surely my lord did not consider that he wrote for the beaux . 
Ha ! that's Jenny's titter . 
I protest I despair of ever teaching that girl to laugh she has something so execrably natural in her laugh , that I declare it absolutely dis composes my nerves . 
How came she into our house ! Calls . 
JESSAMY Prythee , Jenny , don't spoil your fine face with laughing . 
JENNY Why , mustn't I laugh , Mr. Jessamy ? JESSAMY You may smile , but , as my lord says , nothing can authorise a laugh . 
JENNY Well , but I can't help laughing . 
Have you seen him , Mr. Jessamy ? ha , ha , ha ! JESSAMY Seen whom ? JENNY Why , Jonathan , the New England colonel's servant . 
Do you know he was at the play last night , and the stupid creature don't know where he has been . 
He would not go to a play for the world he thinks it was a show , as he calls it . 
He is to make love to you . 
JENNY I must say , Mr. Jessamy , if he copies after me , he will be vastly , monstrously polite . 
JESSAMY Stay here one moment , and I will call him . 
Jona than ! Mr. Jonathan ! Calls . 
JONATHAN within Holla ! there . 
You promise to stand by me six bows you say . 
JESSAMY Mrs. Jenny , I have the honour of presenting Mr. Jonathan , Colonel Manly's waiter , to you . 
I am ex tremely happy that I have it in my power to make two worthy people acquainted with each other's merits . 
JENNY So , Mr. Jonathan , I hear you were at the play last night . 
Oh ! no , no , no ! you won't catch me at a play house , I warrant you . 
JENNY Well JONATHAN So I went right in , and they shewed me away , clean up to the garret , just like meeting house gallery . 
JENNY But did you see no other folks ? JONATHAN Yes . 
He was going to ask a young woman to spark it with him , and the Lord have mercy on my soul ! she was another man's wife . 
JESSAMY The Wabash ! JENNY And did you see any more folks ? JONATHAN Why , they came on as thick as mustard . 
For my part , I thought the house was haunted . 
His name was Darby that was his baptizing name his other name I forgot . 
JENNY I can't say I have that pleasure . 
JONATHAN I wish you did he is a cute fellow . 
Now , I'm a true born Yankee American son of liberty , and I never was afraid of a gun yet in all my life . 
JENNY Well , Mr. Jonathan , you were certainly at the play house . 
JONATHAN I at the play house ! Why didn't I see the play then ? JENNY Why , the people you saw were players . 
Why , I vow , now I come to think on't , the candles seemed to burn blue , and I am sure where I sat it smelt tarnally of brimstone . 
JESSAMY Well , Mr. Jonathan , from your account , which I confess is very accurate , you must have been at the play house . 
JONATHAN Why , I vow , I began to smell a rat . 
Why , says he , it is the School for Scandalization . 
JESSAMY My dear Jenny , my master's business drags me from you would to heaven I knew no other servitude than to your charms . 
JONATHAN Well , but don't go you won't leave me so JESSAMY Excuse me . 
Aside to him , and Exit . 
JENNY Mr. Jonathan , won't you please to sit down ? Mr. Jessamy tells me you wanted to have some conversa tion with me . 
Having brought forward two chairs , they sit . 
Yes , Ma'am , I can sing I can sing Mear , Old Hundred , and Bangor . 
JENNY Oh ! I don't mean psalm tunes . 
JENNY What is it called ? JONATHAN I am sure you have heard folks talk about it it is called Yankee Doodle . 
JENNY Oh ! it is the tune I am fond of and if I know any thing of my mistress , she would be glad to dance to it . 
Pray , sing ! JONATHAN Sings . 
Father and I went up to camp , Along with Captain Goodwin And there we saw the men and boys , As thick as hasty pudding . 
Yankee doodle do , etc . 
And there we saw a swamping gun , Big as log of maple , On a little deuced cars , A load for father's cattle . 
Yankee doodle do , etc . 
And every time they fired it off It took a horn of powder , It made a noise like father's gun , Only a nation louder . 
Yankee doodle do , etc . 
There was a man in our town , His name was No , no , that won't do . 
JENNY Is that all ! I assure you I like it of all things . 
Marblehead's a rocky place , And Cape Cod is sandy Charlestown is burnt down , Boston is the dandy . 
Yankee doodle , doodle do , etc . 
Burning rivers ! cooling flames ! red hot roses ! pig nuts ! hasty pudding and ambrosia ! JENNY What means this freedom ? you insulting wretch . 
JENNY Pretend to be affronted ! JONATHAN Aye , aye , if you only pretend , you shall hear how I'll go to work to make cherubim consequences . 
JENNY Begone , you brute ! JONATHAN That looks like mad but I won't lose my speech . 
JENNY Marry you ! you audacious monster ! get out of my sight , or , rather , let me fly from you . 
JONATHAN Gor ! she's gone off in a swinging passion , before I had time to think of consequences . 
If this is the way with your city ladies , give me the twenty acres of rock , the Bible , the cow , and Tabitha , and a little peaceable bundling . 
It must be so , Montague ! and it is not all the tribe of Mandevilles that shall convince me that a nation , to become great , must first become dissipated . 
When the Grecian states knew no other tools than the axe and the saw , the Grecians were a great , a free , and a happy people . 
But when foreign gold , and still more per nicious foreign luxury , had crept among them , they sapped the vitals of their virtue . 
The virtues of their ancestors were only found in their writings . 
Envy and suspicion , the vices of little minds , possessed them . 
Oh ! that America ! Oh ! that my country , would , in this her day , learn the things which belong to her peace ! Enter DIMPLE . 
DIMPLE You are Colonel Manly , I presume ? MANLY At your service , Sir . 
DIMPLE My name is Dimple , Sir . 
I have the honour to be a lodger in the same house with you , and , hearing you were in the Mall , came hither to take the liberty of joining you . 
MANLY You are very obliging , Sir . 
MANLY An attention to strangers is worthy a liberal mind , and must ever be gratefully received . 
But to a sol dier , who has no fixed abode , such attentions are particularly pleasing . 
DIMPLE Sir , there is no character so respectable as that of a soldier . 
I have hit the Bumkin off very tolerably . 
MANLY Give me your hand , Sir ! I do not proffer this hand to everybody but you steal into my heart . 
that I never hear the name of soldier mentioned with respect , but I experience a thrill of pleasure which I never feel on any other occasion . 
MANLY Sir , I should be proud of the honour of being acquainted with those gentlemen but , as for the ladies , I don't understand you . 
DIMPLE How he awes me by the superiority of his senti ments . 
As you say , Sir , a gentleman should be cautious how he mentions marriage . 
MANLY Cautious , Sir ! No person more approves of an inter course between the sexes than I do . 
Female conver sation softens our manners , whilst our discourse , from the superiority of our literary advantages , improves their minds . 
DIMPLE Sir , I admire your sentiments they are mine . 
The light observations that fell from me were only a principle of the tongue they came not from the heart my practice has ever disapproved these principles . 
MANLY I believe you , Sir . 
I should with reluctance sup pose that those pernicious sentiments could find ad mittance into the heart of a gentleman . 
DIMPLE I am now , Sir , going to visit a family , where , if you please , I will have the honour of introducing you . 
Mr. Manly's ward , Miss Letitia , is a young lady of immense fortune and his niece , Miss Charlotte Manly , is a young lady of great sprightliness and beauty . 
MANLY That gentleman , Sir , is my uncle , and Miss Manly my sister . 
DIMPLE The devil she is ! Aside . 
Miss Manly your sister , Sir ? I rejoice to hear it , and feel a double pleasure in being known to you . 
Plague on him ! I wish he was at Boston again , with all my soul . 
MANLY Come , Sir , will you go ? DIMPLE I will follow you in a moment , Sir . 
Plague on it ! this is unlucky . 
A fighting brother is a cursed appendage to a fine girl . 
Egad ! I just stopped in time had he not discovered himself , in two minutes more I should have told him how well I was with his sister . 
Indeed , I cannot see the satisfac tion of an intrigue , if one can't have the pleasure of communicating it to our friends . 
END OF THE THIRD ACT . 
CHARLOTTE THIS is so kind , my sweet friend , to come to see me at this moment . 
I declare , if I were going to be married in a few days , as you are , I should scarce have found time to visit my friends . 
Ah ! my dear , your senti mental imagination does not conceive what that little tiny word implies . 
MARIA Spare me your raillery , my sweet friend I should love your agreeable vivacity at any other time . 
CHARLOTTE Why , this is the very time to amuse you . 
You grieve me to see you look so unhappy . 
CHARLOTTE This works well oh ! the generous Dimple . 
I'll endeavour to excite her to discharge him . 
But , my dear friend , your happiness depends on your self . 
MARIA Oh ! my dear , you never lived with your parents , and do not know what influence a father's frowns have upon a daughter's heart . 
CHARLOTTE This morning ! MARIA Yes one of the strangest accidents in the world . 
He was not strictly handsome , but he spoke the language of sentiment , and his eyes looked tender ness and honour . 
CHARLOTTE Oh ! eagerly you sentimental , grave girls , when your hearts are once touched , beat us rattles a bar's length . 
Besides , my dear , he is a married man . 
LETITIA My dear Maria , I am happy to see you . 
Lud ! what a pity it is that you have purchased your wed ding clothes . 
I thought they said the large hoops were going out of fashion . 
CHARLOTTE Did you see the hat ? Is it a fact that the deep laces round the border is still the fashion ? DIMPLE within . 
Upon my honour , Sir . 
MARIA Ha ! Dimple's voice ! My dear , I must take leave of you . 
There are some things necessary to be done at our house . 
Can't I go through the other room ? Enter DIMPLE and MANLY . 
DIMPLE Ladies , your most obedient . 
CHARLOTTE Miss Van Rough , shall I present my brother Henry to you ? Colonel Manly , Maria , Miss Van Rough , brother . 
MARIA Her brother ! turns and sees Manly . 
Oh ! my heart ! the very gentleman I have been praising . 
MANLY The same amiable girl I saw this morning ! CHARLOTTE Why , you look as if you were acquainted . 
MANLY I unintentionally intruded into this lady's presence this morning , for which she was so good as to promise me her forgiveness . 
CHARLOTTE Oh ! ho ! is that the case ! Have these two pense rosos been together ? Were they Henry's eyes that looked so tenderly ? Aside . 
But , my dear , as you are in such haste , it would be cruel to detain you I can show you the way through the other room . 
MARIA Spare me , my sprightly friend . 
MANLY The lady does not , I hope , intend to deprive us of the pleasure of her company so soon . 
CHARLOTTE She has only a mantua maker who waits for her at home . 
But , as I am to give my opinion of the dress , I think she cannot go yet . 
We were talking of the fashions when you came in , but I suppose the subject must be changed to something of more importance now . 
For my part , I must confess that , to a man who has travelled , there is noth ping that is worthy the name of amusement to be found in this city . 
CHARLOTTE Except visiting the ladies . 
DIMPLE Pardon me , Madam that is the avocation of a man of taste . 
MANLY Do you never attend the theatre , Sir ? DIMPLE I was tortured there once . 
Yet , on second thoughts , it might be some hero in a tragedy , dying so comically as to set the whole house in an uproar . 
Colonel , I presume you have been in Europe ? MANLY Indeed , Sir , I was never ten leagues from the conti nent . 
MANLY Therefore I do not wish to see them for I can never esteem that knowledge valuable which tends to give me a distaste for my native country . 
DIMPLE Well , Colonel , though you have not travelled , you have read . 
MANLY I have , a little and by it have discovered that there is a laudable partiality which ignorant , untrav elled men entertain for everything that belongs to their native country . 
I call it laudable it injures no one adds to their own happiness and , when extended , be comes the noble principle of patriotism . 
MARIA What noble sentiments ! CHARLOTTE Let my brother set out where he will in the fields of conversation , he is sure to end his tour in the temple of gravity . 
MANLY Forgive me , my sister . 
I love my country it has its foibles undoubtedly some foreigners will with pleasure remark them but such remarks fall very ungracefully from the lips of her citizens . 
DIMPLE You are perfectly in the right , Colonel America has her faults . 
MANLY Yes , Sir and we , her children , should blush for them in private , and endeavour , as individuals , to re form them . 
CHARLOTTE But , brother , we must introduce you to some of our gay folks , and let you see the city , such as it is . 
Mr. Dimple is known to almost every family in town he will doubtless take a pleasure in introducing you . 
DIMPLE I shall esteem every service I can render your brother an honour . 
MANLY I fear the business I am upon will take up all my time , and my family will be anxious to hear from me . 
MARIA His family ! but what is it to me that he is married ! Aside . 
Pray , how did you leave your lady , Sir ? CHARLOTTE My brother is not married observing her anxiety it is only an odd way he has of expressing himself . 
My sister says true to Maria I call my late soldiers my family . 
Friendships made in adversity are last ping our countrymen may forget us , but that is no reason why we should forget one another . 
But I must leave you my time of engagement approaches . 
MARIA I am obliged to your sister , Sir , and was just intend ping to go . 
MANLY I shall attend her with pleasure . 
Exit with Maria , followed by Dimple and Charlotte . 
MARIA Now , pray , don't betray me to your brother . 
CHARLOTTE Just as she sees him make a motion to take his leave . 
One word with you , brother , if you please . 
Manent , DIMPLE and LETITIA . 
DIMPLE You received the billet I sent you , I presume ? LETITIA Hush ! Yes . 
DIMPLE When shall I pay my respects to you ? LETITIA At eight I shall be unengaged . 
DIMPLE Did my lovely angel receive my billet ? to Char lotte . 
DIMPLE At eight I shall be at home unengaged . 
DIMPLE Unfortunate ! I have a horrid engagement of busi ness at that hour . 
Can't you finish your visit earlier and let six be the happy hour ? CHARLOTTE You know your influence over me . 
IT cannot possibly be true ! The son of my old friend can't have acted so unadvisedly . 
Seventeen thousand pounds ! in bills ! Mr. Transfer must have been mistaken . 
No , no , no ! it can't be it cannot be . 
But , however , I must look out sharp . 
I did not care what his principles or his actions were , so long as he minded the main chance . 
No , no Mary is right . 
I wonder Mary did not tell me she knew of his spending his money so foolishly . 
Hush ! I hear somebody coming . 
'Tis Mary's voice a man with her too ! I shouldn't be surprised if this should be the other string to her bow . 
Aye , aye , let them alone women understand the main chance . 
Though , I' faith , I'll listen a little . 
MARIA Indeed , Sir , I have been led to hear more upon this subject than I ought . 
I am not so indelicate as to seek your imme diate approbation permit me only to be near you , and by a thousand tender assiduities to endeavour to excite a grateful return . 
A young lady should reflect that the loss of a lover may be supplied , but nothing can compensate for the loss of a parent's affection . 
MARIA You distress me , Sir . 
MANLY Then I will sincerely beg your excuse for obtruding so disagreeable a subject , and retire . 
What would you have me say ? You are too generous to wish the truth . 
We are both unhappy but it is your duty to obey your parent mine to obey my honour . 
Adieu ! I dare not trust myself longer with you . 
END OF THE FOURTH ACT . 
ACT V. SCENE I. DIMPLE'S Lodgings . 
But what the rattle makes you look so tarnation glum ? JESSAMY I was thinking , Mr. Jonathan , what could be the reason of her carrying herself so coolly to you . 
JONATHAN Coolly , do you call it ? Why , I vow , she was fire hot angry may be it was because I buss'd her . 
JESSAMY No , no , Mr. Jonathan there must be some other cause I never yet knew a lady angry at being kissed . 
JONATHAN Well , if it is not the young woman's bashfulness , I vow I can't conceive why she shouldn't like me . 
JESSAMY May be it is because you have not the Graces , Mr. Jonathan . 
JONATHAN Maple log seize it ! don't I laugh natural ? JESSAMY That's the very fault , Mr. Jonathan . 
Besides , you absolutely misplace it . 
I was told by a friend of mine that you laughed outright at the play the other night , when you ought only to have tittered . 
JONATHAN Gor ! I what does one go to see fun for if they can't laugh ? JESSAMY You may laugh but you must laugh by rule . 
JONATHAN Swamp it laugh by rule ! Well , I should like that tarnally . 
JONATHAN Mercy on my soul ! A gamut for laughing just like fa , la , sol ? JEREMY Yes . 
JONATHAN Ha , ha , ha ! that's dang'd cute , I swear . 
Oh ! no , this is only a titter with its variations . 
Ah , here it is . 
Now , you must know , Mr. Jonathan , this is a piece written by Ben Johnson , which I have set to my master's gamut . 
The places where you must smile , look grave , or laugh out right , are marked below the line . 
There was a certain man now you must smile . 
JONATHAN Well , read it again I warrant I'll mind my eye . 
JESSAMY There was a certain man , who had a sad scolding wife , now you must laugh . 
JONATHAN Tarnation ! That's no laughing matter though . 
JESSAMY And she lay sick a dying now you must titter . 
Why you ought to have tittered piano , and you have laughed fortissimo . 
Look here you see these marks , A , B , C , and so on these are the references to the other part of the book . 
Let us turn to it , and you will see the directions how to manage the muscles . 
This turns over was note D you blundered at . 
You must purse the mouth into a smile , then titter , discov ering the lower part of the three front upper teeth . 
JONATHAN How ? read it again . 
Let me look grave here , and I'll laugh your belly full , where the old creature's a dying . 
JESSAMY And she asked her husband Bell rings . 
My master's bell ! he's returned , I fear . 
Here , Mr. Jona than , take this gamut and I make no doubt but with a few years' close application , you may be able to smile gracefully . 
But to know she is unhappy ! I must drive these thoughts from me . 
Charlotte has some books and this is what I believe she calls her little library . 
LETITIA You could not expect it . 
DIMPLE Nay , but be calm a moment 'twas from my regard to you that I did not discard her . 
LETITIA Regard to me ! DIMPLE Yes I have done everything in my power to break with her , but the foolish girl is so fond of me that nothing can accomplish it . 
LETITIA Did I not see you whisper her to day ? DIMPLE Possibly I might but something of so very trifling a nature that I have already forgot what it was . 
LETITIA I believe she has not forgot it . 
DIMPLE My dear creature , how can you for a moment sup pose I should have any serious thoughts of that trifling , gay , flighty coquette , that disagreeable Enter CHARLOTTE . 
DIMPLE My dear Miss Manly , I rejoice to see you there is a charm in your conversation that always marks your entrance into company as fortunate . 
LETITIA Where have you been , my dear ? CHARLOTTE Why , I have been about to twenty shops , turning over pretty things , and so have left twenty visits unpaid . 
LETITIA So anxious to get me out ! but I'll watch you . 
Oh ! yes , I'll go I want a little exercise . 
Exit , but returns to the door in the back scene and listens . 
DIMPLE This attachment of your brother to Maria is fortunate . 
CHARLOTTE How did you come to the knowledge of it ? DIMPLE I read it in their eyes . 
CHARLOTTE And I had it from her mouth . 
DIMPLE I have done everything in my power to assist his passion there your delicacy , my dearest girl , would be shocked at half the instances of neglect and mis behaviour . 
CHARLOTTE I don't know how I should bear neglect but Mr. Dimple must misbehave himself indeed , to forfeit my good opinion . 
CHARLOTTE All my sex besides , Mr. Dimple ! you forgot your tete a tete with Letitia . 
The man , who has been blessed with the good opinion of my Charlotte , must despise the allurements of fortune . 
DIMPLE Let us think no more on the odious subject , but devote the present hour to happiness . 
Come , then , my charming angel ! why delay our bliss ? The present moment is ours the next is in the hand of fate . 
CHARLOTTE Begone , Sir ! By your delusions you had almost lulled my honour asleep . 
DIMPLE Let me lull the demon to sleep again with kisses . 
He struggles with her she screams . 
MANLY Turn , villain ! and defend yourself . 
VAN ROUGH enters and beats down their swords . 
VAN ROUGH Is the devil in you ? are you going to murder one another ? Holding Dimple . 
DIMPLE Hold him , hold him , I can command my passion . 
JONATHAN Gor ! I I wish he did I'd shew him Yankee boys play , pretty quick . 
VAN ROUGH Why , all this is nothing to the purpose can you explain it , Miss ? To Charlotte . 
Enter LETITIA through the back scene . 
LETITIA I can explain it to that gentleman's confusion . 
he has privately paid his ad dresses to me . 
JONATHAN What a tarnal curse ! LETITIA Nor is this all , Miss Manly . 
When he was with me this very morning , he made the same ungenerous reflections upon the weakness of your mind as he has so recently done upon the defects of my person . 
JONATHAN What a tarnal curse and damn , too ! DIMPLE Ha ! since I have lost Letitia , I believe I had as good make it up with Maria . 
Mr. Van Rough , at present I cannot enter into particulars but , I believe , I can explain everything to your satisfaction in private . 
VAN ROUGH There is another matter , Mr. Van Dumpling , which I would have you explain . 
Pray , Sir , have Messrs . 
Sir , you'll hear from me . 
MANLY And you from me , Sir DIMPLE Sir , you wear a sword MANLY Yes , Sir . 
This sword was presented to me by that brave Gallic hero , the Marquis De la Fayette . 
I have fought too many battles in the service of my country to dread the imputation of cowardice . 
DIMPLE You won't meet me , Sir ? Then I'll post you for a coward . 
MANLY I'll venture that , Sir . 
The reputation of my life does not depend upon the breath of a Mr. Dimple . 
MARIA Is he indeed gone ? LETITIA I hope , never to return . 
VAN ROUGH I am glad I heard of those bills though it's plaguy unlucky I hoped to see Mary married before I died . 
You may find a son in law of more fortune , but you can never meet with one who is richer in love for her , or respect for you . 
VAN ROUGH Ha , ha , ha ! Mark me , Mary young folks think old folks to be fools but old folks know young folks to be fools . 
Why , I knew all about this affair . 
This was only a cunning way I had to bring it about . 
Hark ye ! I was in the closet when you and he were at our hours . 
I have inquired into your character , and find you to be a man of punctuality and mind the main chance . 
And so , as you love Mary and Mary loves you , you shall have my consent immediately to be married . 
I'll settle my fortune on you , and go and live with you the remainder of my life . 
MANLY Sir , I hope VAN ROUGH Come , come , no fine speeches mind the main chance , young man , and you and I shall always agree . 
LETITIA I sincerely wish you joy advancing to Maria and hope your pardon for my conduct . 
MARIA I thank you for your congratulations , and hope we shall at once forget the wretch who has given us so much disquiet , and the trouble that he has occasioned . 
MARIA My dear , you distress me you have all my love . 
CHARLOTTE If repentance can entitle me to forgiveness , I have already much merit for I despise the littleness of my past conduct . 
In addition to the 'Prince of Parthia , the following plays by American authors are known to have been printed . 
'The Suspected Daughter , or Jealous Father , a Farce in three acts , both serious and comic , written by T. T. Bos ton , . 
'The Disappointment , or The Force of Credulity , a new American Comic Opera of two acts , by Andrew Barton , Esq . 
'The Conquest of Canada , or Siege of Quebec , a Historic Tragedy , by George Cockings . 
'The Adulateur , a tragedy and . 
'The Group , a Political Comedy , both by Mrs. Mercy Warren . 
'The Blockheads , or the Affrighted Officers , a Farce . 
'The Battle of Bunker Hill , a dramatic piece , in five acts . 
'The Death of General Montgomery in storming the City of Quebec , a Tragedy . 
Philadelphia , both by H. H. Brackenridge . 
'The Patriot Chief , a Drama , by Peter Markoe . 
'Edwin and Angelina , or The Banditti , an Opera in three acts , by Dr . 
Dunlap erroneously gives the date of the first performance of the 'Contrast' as in , and writers generally following him make the same mistake . 
Ireland in his 'Records' gives the date correctly . 
Tyler , in addition to the plays and law reports mentioned , wrote and published the following works . 
'The Algerine Captive , or The Life and Adventures of Doctor Updike Underhill , six years a prisoner among the Algerines . 
Walpole , N. H. , . 
'Moral Tales for American Youths . 
'The Yankey in London a series of Letters written by an American Youth during nine months' residence in the City of London . 
were published in a volume , at Walpole , in , entitled 'The Spirit of the Farmers' Museum and Lay Preachers' Gazette . 
