The Cricket on the Hearth by Charles Dickens SCanned and David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Cricket on the Hearth CHAPTER I Chrip the First THE kettle began it ! Don't tell me what Mrs. Peerybingle said . 
Mrs. Peerybingle may leave it on record to the end of time that she couldn't say which of them began it but , I say the kettle did . 
I ought to know , I hope ! The kettle began it , full five minutes by the little waxy faced Dutch clock in the corner , before the Cricket uttered a chirp . 
I wouldn't set my own opinion against the opinion of Mrs. Peerybingle , unless I were quite sure , on any account whatever . 
But , this is a question of act . 
And the fact is , that the kettle began it , at least five minutes before the Cricket gave any sign of being in existence . 
Contradict me , and I'll say ten . 
Let me narrate exactly how it happened . 
And this is what led to it , and how it came about . 
, she set the kettle on the fire . 
upon our legs , and keep ourselves particularly neat in point of stockings , we find this , for the moment , hard to bear . 
Besides , the kettle was aggravating and obstinate . 
It was quarrelsome , and hissed and spluttered morosely at the fire . 
Nothing shall induce me ! But Mrs. Peerybingle , with restored good humour , dusted her chubby little hands against each other , and sat down before the kettle , laughing . 
He was on the move , however and had his spasms , two to the second , all right and regular . 
It was not until a violent commotion and a whirring noise among the weights and ropes below him had quite subsided , that this terrified Haymaker became himself again . 
Now it was , you observe , that the kettle began to spend the evening . 
So plain too ! Bless you , you might have understood it like a book better than some books you and I could name , perhaps . 
Mrs. Peerybingle knew it , perfectly , as she sat musing before the hearth . 
The kettle had had the last of its solo performance . 
It persevered with undiminished ardour but the Cricket took first fiddle and kept it . 
Good Heaven , how it chirped ! Its shrill , sharp , piercing voice resounded through the house , and seemed to twinkle in the outer darkness like a star . 
Yet they went very well together , the Cricket and the kettle . 
The burden of the song was still the same and louder , louder , louder still , they sang it in their emulation . 
, that she might have looked a long way , and seen nothing half so agreeable . 
When she came back , and sat down in her former seat , the Cricket and the kettle were still keeping it up , with a perfect fury of competition . 
The kettle's weak side clearly being , that he didn't know when he was beat . 
There was all the excitement of a race about it . 
Chirp , chirp , chirp ! Cricket a mile ahead . 
Hum , hum , hum m m ! Kettle making play in the distance , like a great top . 
Chirp , chirp , chirp ! Cricket round the corner . 
Hum , hum , hum m m ! Kettle sticking to him in his own way no idea of giving in . 
Chirp , chirp , chirp ! Cricket fresher than ever . 
Hum , hum , hum m m ! Kettle slow and steady . 
Chirp , chirp , chirp ! Cricket going in to finish him . 
Hum , hum , hum m m ! Kettle not to be finished . 
Where the baby came from , or how Mrs. Peerybingle got hold of it in that flash of time , I don't know . 
But she was worth the trouble . 
Six foot six , with the lumbago , might have done it . 
'Oh goodness , John ! said Mrs. P. 'What a state you are in with the weather ! He was something the worse for it , undeniably . 
The thick mist hung in clots upon his eyelashes like candied thaw and between the fog and fire together , there were rainbows in his very whiskers . 
'Why , you see , Dot , John made answer , slowly , as he unrolled a shawl from about his throat and warmed his hands 'it it an't exactly summer weather . 
'I wish you wouldn't call me Dot , John . 
I don't like it , said Mrs. Peerybingle pouting in a way that clearly showed she DID like it , very much . 
'Why what else are you ? returned John , looking down upon her with a smile , and giving her waist as light a squeeze as his huge hand and arm could give . 
'A dot and' here he glanced at the baby 'a dot and carry I won't say it , for fear I should spoil it but I was very near a joke . 
I don't know as ever I was nearer . 
of this grouping and stood with her mouth and eyes wide open , and her head thrust forward , taking it in as if it were air . 
'An't he beautiful , John ? Don't he look precious in his sleep ? 'Very precious , said John . 
He generally IS asleep , an't he ? 'Lor , John ! Good gracious no ! 'Oh , said John , pondering . 
'I thought his eyes was generally shut . 
'But how should you know what little complaints children are troubled with , John ! You wouldn't so much as know their names , you stupid fellow . 
And when she had turned the baby over on her left arm , and had slapped its back as a restorative , she pinched her husband's ear , laughing . 
'No , said John , pulling off his outer coat . 
'It's very true , Dot . 
I don't know much about it . 
I only know that I've been fighting pretty stiffly with the wind to night . 
It's been blowing north east , straight into the cart , the whole way home . 
'Poor old man , so it has ! cried Mrs. Peerybingle , instantly becoming very active . 
'Here ! Take the precious darling , Tilly , while I make myself of some use . 
How doth the little and all the rest of it , you know , John . 
Did you ever learn how doth the little , when you went to school , John ? 'Not to quite know it , John returned . 
'I was very near it once . 
But I should only have spoilt it , I dare say . 
'Ha ha , laughed Dot . 
She had the blithest little laugh you ever heard . 
'There ! There's the teapot , ready on the hob ! said Dot as briskly busy as a child at play at keeping house . 
, would have amused you almost as much as it amused him . 
It may have entertained the Cricket too , for anything I know but , certainly , it now began to chirp again , vehemently . 
'Heyday ! said John , in his slow way . 
'It's merrier than ever , to night , I think . 
'And it's sure to bring us good fortune , John ! It always has done so . 
But , it was probably one of his narrow escapes , for he said nothing . 
'The first time I heard its cheerful little note , John , was on that night when you brought me home when you brought me to my new home here its little mistress . 
You recollect , John ? O yes . 
I should think so ! 'Its chirp was such a welcome to me ! It seemed so full of promise and encouragement . 
to find an old head on the shoulders of your foolish little wife . 
And really he had reason . 
This has been a happy home , John and I love the Cricket for its sake ! 'Why so do I then , said the Carrier . 
'So do I , Dot . 
'I love it for the many times I have heard it , and the many thoughts its harmless music has given me . 
I was thinking of these things to night , dear , when I sat expecting you and I love the Cricket for their sake ! 'And so do I , repeated John . 
Next moment she was down upon her knees before the basket , speaking in a sprightly voice , and busy with the parcels . 
'Why what's this round box ? Heart alive , John , it's a wedding cake ! 'Leave a woman alone to find out that , said John , admiringly . 
'Now a man would never have thought of it . 
Yes I called for it at the pastry cook's . 
'And it weighs I don't know what whole hundredweights ! cried Dot , making a great demonstration of trying to lift it . 
'Whose is it , John ? Where is it going ? 'Read the writing on the other side , said John . 
'Why , John ! My Goodness , John ! 'Ah ! who'd have thought it ! John returned . 
'You never mean to say , pursued Dot , sitting on the floor and shaking her head at him , 'that it's Gruff and Tackleton the toymaker ! John nodded . 
Mrs. Peerybingle nodded also , fifty times at least . 
, and looking the good Carrier through and through , in her abstraction . 
'And that is really to come about ! said Dot . 
'Why , she and I were girls at school together , John . 
He might have been thinking of her , or nearly thinking of her , perhaps , as she was in that same school time . 
He looked upon her with a thoughtful pleasure , but he made no answer . 
'As to eating , I eat but little but that little I enjoy , Dot . 
, until he rose and touched her on the arm when she looked at him for a moment , and hurried to her place behind the teaboard , laughing at her negligence . 
But , not as she had laughed before . 
The manner and the music were quite changed . 
The Cricket , too , had stopped . 
Somehow the room was not so cheerful as it had been . 
'So , these are all the parcels are they , John ? 'That's all , said John . 
'Why no I laying down his knife and fork , and taking a long breath . 
'I declare I've clean forgotten the old gentleman ! 'The old gentleman ? 'In the cart , said John . 
'He was asleep , among the straw , the last time I saw him . 
I've very nearly remembered him , twice , since I came in but he went out of my head again . 
Holloa ! Yahip there ! Rouse up ! That's my hearty ! John said these latter words outside the door , whither he had hurried with the candle in his hand . 
His garb was very quaint and odd a long , long way behind the time . 
Its hue was brown , all over . 
In his hand he held a great brown club or walking stick and striking this upon the floor , it fell asunder , and became a chair . 
On which he sat down , quite composedly . 
'There ! said the Carrier , turning to his wife . 
'That's the way I found him , sitting by the roadside ! Upright as a milestone . 
'Sitting in the open air , John ! 'In the open air , replied the Carrier , 'just at dusk . 
Carriage Paid , he said and gave me eighteenpence . 
'He's going , John , I think ! Not at all . 
He was only going to speak . 
'If you please , I was to be left till called for , said the Stranger , mildly . 
With that , he took a pair of spectacles from one of his large pockets , and a book from another , and leisurely began to read . 
Making no more of Boxer than if he had been a house lamb ! The Carrier and his wife exchanged a look of perplexity . 
The Stranger raised his head and glancing from the latter to the former , said , 'Your daughter , my good friend ? 'Wife , returned John . 
'Niece ? said the Stranger . 
'Indeed ? observed the Stranger . 
'Surely ? Very young ! He quietly turned over , and resumed his reading . 
'Girl ? 'Bo o oy ! roared John . 
'Also very young , eh ? Mrs. Peerybingle instantly struck in . 
'Hark ! He's called for , sure enough , said John . 
'There's somebody at the door . 
Also the word GLASS in bold characters . 
'Good evening , John ! said the little man . 
Good evening , Unbeknown ! How's Baby , Mum ? Boxer's pretty well I hope ? 'All thriving , Caleb , replied Dot . 
'I am sure you need only look at the dear child , for one , to know that . 
'And I'm sure I need only look at you for another , said Caleb . 
'Or at John for another , said Caleb . 
'Or at Tilly , as far as that goes . 
'Busy just now , Caleb ? asked the Carrier . 
'Why , pretty well , John , he returned , with the distraught air of a man who was casting about for the Philosopher's stone , at least . 
There's rather a run on Noah's Arks at present . 
I could have wished to improve upon the Family , but I don't see how it's to be done at the price . 
It would be a satisfaction to one's mind , to make it clearer which was Shems and Hams , and which was Wives . 
'There it is ! he said , adjusting it with great care . 
'Not so much as a leaf damaged . 
Full of buds ! Caleb's dull eye brightened , as he took it , and thanked him . 
'Dear , Caleb , said the Carrier . 
'Very dear at this season . 
It would be cheap to me , whatever it cost , returned the little man . 
'Anything else , John ? 'A small box , replied the Carrier . 
'Here you are ! For Caleb Plummer , said the little man , spelling out the direction . 
With Cash , John ? I don't think it's for me . 
'With Care , returned the Carrier , looking over his shoulder . 
'Where do you make out cash ? 'Oh ! To be sure ! said Caleb . 
With care ! Yes , yes that's mine . 
It might have been with cash , indeed , if my dear Boy in the Golden South Americas had lived , John . 
You loved him like a son didn't you ? You needn't say you did . 
I know , of course . 
Yes , yes , it's all right . 
It's a box of dolls' eyes for my daughter's work . 
I wish it was her own sight in a box , John . 
'I wish it was , or could be ! cried the Carrier . 
'Thank'ee , said the little man . 
To think that she should never see the Dolls and them a staring at her , so bold , all day long ! That's where it cuts . 
What's the damage , John ? 'I'll damage you , said John , 'if you inquire . 
Dot ! Very near ? 'Well ! it's like you to say so , observed the little man . 
'I think not , said the Carrier . 
'Something for our Governor , eh ? said Caleb , after pondering a little while . 
That's what I came for but my head's so running on them Arks and things ! He hasn't been here , has he ? 'Not he , returned the Carrier . 
'He's too busy , courting . 
'He's coming round though , said Caleb 'for he told me to keep on the near side of the road going home , and it was ten to one he'd take me up . 
I had better go , by the bye . 
'He mightn't like it perhaps . 
There's a small order just come in , for barking dogs and I should wish to go as close to Natur' as I could , for sixpence . 
It happened opportunely , that Boxer , without receiving the proposed stimulus , began to bark with great zeal . 
He might have spared himself the trouble , for he met the visitor upon the threshold . 
'Oh ! You are here , are you ? Wait a bit . 
John Peerybingle , my service to you . 
More of my service to your pretty wife . 
'You know all about it then ? 'I have got myself to believe it , somehow , said Dot . 
'After a hard struggle , I suppose ? 'Very . 
They were his only relief , and safety valve . 
He was great in such inventions . 
Anything suggestive of a Pony nightmare was delicious to him . 
by getting up Goblin slides for magic lanterns , whereon the Powers of Darkness were depicted as a sort of supernatural shell fish , with human faces . 
What he was in toys , he was in other things . 
Still , Tackleton , the toy merchant , was going to be married . 
In spite of all this , he was going to be married . 
And to a young wife too , a beautiful young wife . 
But , a Bridegroom he designed to be . 
The last day of the first month in the year . 
That's my wedding day , said Tackleton . 
'That's my wedding day ! said Tackleton , rattling his money . 
'Why , it's our wedding day too , exclaimed the Carrier . 
'Ha ha ! laughed Tackleton . 
'Odd ! You're just such another couple . 
Just ! The indignation of Dot at this presumptuous assertion is not to be described . 
What next ? His imagination would compass the possibility of just such another Baby , perhaps . 
'I say ! A word with you , murmured Tackleton , nudging the Carrier with his elbow , and taking him a little apart . 
'You'll come to the wedding ? We're in the same boat , you know . 
'How in the same boat ? inquired the Carrier . 
'A little disparity , you know , said Tackleton , with another nudge . 
'Come and spend an evening with us , beforehand . 
'Why ? demanded John , astonished at this pressing hospitality . 
'Why ? returned the other . 
'That's a new way of receiving an invitation . 
Why , for pleasure sociability , you know , and all that ! 'I thought you were never sociable , said John , in his plain way . 
'Tchah ! It's of no use to be anything but free with you , I see , said Tackleton . 
'Why , then , the truth is you have a what tea drinking people call a sort of a comfortable appearance together , you and your wife . 
We know better , you know , but 'No , we don't know better , interposed John . 
'What are you talking about ? 'Well ! We DON'T know better , then , said Tackleton . 
'We'll agree that we don't . 
at home , said John . 
'We have made the promise to ourselves these six months . 
We think , you see , that home 'Bah ! what's home ? cried Tackleton . 
There are four walls and a ceiling at my house . 
Come to me ! 'You kill your Crickets , eh ? said John . 
'Scrunch 'em , sir , returned the other , setting his heel heavily on the floor . 
Whatever one woman says , another woman is determined to clinch , always . 
'Do you mean to say she don't , then ? asked the Carrier . 
'Don't ! cried Tackleton , with a short , sharp laugh . 
'Don't what ? The Carrier had some faint idea of adding , 'dote upon you . 
But the Carrier , though slow to understand the full drift of his meaning , eyed him in such a serious manner , that he was obliged to be a little more explanatory . 
'I'm able to gratify that humour and I do . 
But now look there ! He pointed to where Dot was sitting , thoughtfully , before the fire leaning her dimpled chin upon her hand , and watching the bright blaze . 
The Carrier looked at her , and then at him , and then at her , and then at him again . 
'She honours and obeys , no doubt , you know , said Tackleton 'and that , as I am not a man of sentiment , is quite enough for ME . 
But do you think there's anything more in it ? 'I think , observed the Carrier , 'that I should chuck any man out of window , who said there wasn't . 
'Exactly so , returned the other with an unusual alacrity of assent . 
'To be sure ! Doubtless you would . 
Pleasant dreams ! The Carrier was puzzled , and made uncomfortable and uncertain , in spite of himself . 
He couldn't help showing it , in his manner . 
'Good night , my dear friend ! said Tackleton , compassionately . 
We're exactly alike , in reality , I see . 
You won't give us to morrow evening ? Well ! Next day you go out visiting , I know . 
I'll meet you there , and bring my wife that is to be . 
What's that ! It was a loud cry from the Carrier's wife a loud , sharp , sudden cry , that made the room ring , like a glass vessel . 
She had risen from her seat , and stood like one transfixed by terror and surprise . 
The Stranger had advanced towards the fire to warm himself , and stood within a short stride of her chair . 
'Dot ! cried the Carrier . 
'Mary ! Darling ! What's the matter ? They were all about her in a moment . 
'Mary ! exclaimed the Carrier , supporting her in his arms . 
'Are you ill ! What is it ? Tell me , dear ! She only answered by beating her hands together , and falling into a wild fit of laughter . 
Then , sinking from his grasp upon the ground , she covered her face with her apron , and wept bitterly . 
The old man standing , as before , quite still . 
'I'm better , John , she said . 
'I'm quite well now I 'John ! But John was on the other side of her . 
It's quite gone , quite gone . 
'I'm glad it's gone , muttered Tackleton , turning the expressive eye all round the room . 
'I wonder where it's gone , and what it was . 
Humph ! Caleb , come here ! Who's that with the grey hair ? 'I don't know , sir , returned Caleb in a whisper . 
'Never see him before , in all my life . 
A beautiful figure for a nut cracker quite a new model . 
With a screw jaw opening down into his waistcoat , he'd be lovely . 
'Not ugly enough , said Tackleton . 
'Nothing in him at all ! Come ! Bring that box ! All right now , I hope ? 'Quite gone ! said the little woman , waving him hurriedly away . 
'Good night ! 'Good night , said Tackleton . 
'Good night , John Peerybingle ! Take care how you carry that box , Caleb . 
'He don't belong to them , you see , said John . 
'I must give him a hint to go . 
so acceptable , is still as bad as ever . 
Would you , in your kindness , suffer me to rent a bed here ? 'Yes , yes , cried Dot . 
'Yes ! Certainly ! 'Oh ! said the Carrier , surprised by the rapidity of this consent . 
'Well ! I don't object but , still I'm not quite sure that 'Hush ! she interrupted . 
'Dear John ! 'Why , he's stone deaf , urged John . 
'I know he is , but Yes , sir , certainly . 
Yes ! certainly ! I'll make him up a bed , directly , John . 
, had once more tied the Baby's cap on . 
'And frighten it , a precious Pets , a sitting by the fires . 
What frightened Dot , I wonder ! mused the Carrier , pacing to and fro . 
He scouted , from his heart , the insinuations of the Toy merchant , and yet they filled him with a vague , indefinite uneasiness . 
For , Tackleton was quick and sly and he had that painful sense , himself , of being of slow perception , that a broken hint was always worrying to him . 
The bed was soon made ready and the visitor , declining all refreshment but a cup of tea , retired . 
She always WOULD sit on that little stool . 
I think she must have had a kind of notion that it was a coaxing , wheedling little stool . 
She was , out and out , the very best filler of a pipe , I should say , in the four quarters of the globe . 
came out , in fairy shape , into the room , and summoned many forms of Home about him . 
Dots of all ages , and all sizes , filled the chamber . 
and sick old Carriers , tended by the gentlest hands and graves of dead and gone old Carriers , green in the churchyard . 
I have said that Caleb and his poor Blind Daughter lived here . 
The Blind Girl never knew that ceilings were discoloured , walls blotched and bare of plaster here and there , high crevices unstopped and widening every day , beams mouldering and tending downward . 
The Blind Girl never knew that iron was rusting , wood rotting , paper peeling off the size , and shape , and true proportion of the dwelling , withering away . 
Caleb and his daughter were at work together in their usual working room , which served them for their ordinary living room as well and a strange place it was . 
There were houses in it , finished and unfinished , for Dolls of all stations in life . 
Suburban tenements for Dolls of moderate means kitchens and single apartments for Dolls of the lower classes capital town residences for Dolls of high estate . 
Thus , the Doll lady of distinction had wax limbs of perfect symmetry but only she and her compeers . 
The next grade in the social scale being made of leather , and the next of coarse linen stuff . 
There were various other samples of his handicraft , besides Dolls , in Caleb Plummer's room . 
There were scores of melancholy little carts , which , when the wheels went round , performed most doleful music . 
Many small fiddles , drums , and other instruments of torture no end of cannon , shields , swords , spears , and guns . 
And not in an exaggerated form , for very little handles will move men and women to as strange performances , as any Toy was ever made to undertake . 
In the midst of all these objects , Caleb and his daughter sat at work . 
The Blind Girl busy as a Doll's dressmaker Caleb painting and glazing the four pair front of a desirable family mansion . 
'So you were out in the rain last night , father , in your beautiful new great coat , said Caleb's daughter . 
'How glad I am you bought it , father ! 'And of such a tailor , too , said Caleb . 
It's too good for me . 
The Blind Girl rested from her work , and laughed with delight . 
I really felt as if I hadn't a right to wear it . 
A blue coat 'Bright blue , said Caleb . 
'I shall be vain , presently ! 'I think you are , already , cried the Blind Girl , pointing at him , in her glee . 
She was right in that . 
'You are speaking quite softly . 
You are not tired , father ? 'Tired ! echoed Caleb , with a great burst of animation , 'what should tire me , Bertha ? I was never tired . 
It was a Bacchanalian song , something about a Sparkling Bowl . 
He sang it with an assumption of a Devil may care voice , that made his face a thousand times more meagre and more thoughtful than ever . 
'What ! You're singing , are you ? said Tackleton , putting his head in at the door . 
'Go it ! I can't sing . 
Nobody would have suspected him of it . 
He hadn't what is generally termed a singing face , by any means . 
'I can't afford to sing , said Tackleton . 
I hope you can afford to work too . 
Hardly time for both , I should think ? 'If you could only see him , Bertha , how he's winking at me ! whispered Caleb . 
'Such a man to joke ! you'd think , if you didn't know him , he was in earnest wouldn't you now ? The Blind Girl smiled and nodded . 
'The bird that can sing and won't sing , must be made to sing , they say , grumbled Tackleton . 
'O , my gracious ! 'Always merry and light hearted with us ! cried the smiling Bertha . 
'O , you're there , are you ? answered Tackleton . 
'Poor Idiot ! He really did believe she was an Idiot and he founded the belief , I can't say whether consciously or not , upon her being fond of him . 
'Well ! and being there , how are you ? said Tackleton , in his grudging way . 
'Oh ! well quite well . 
And as happy as even you can wish me to be . 
As happy as you would make the whole world , if you could ! 'Poor Idiot ! muttered Tackleton . 
'We shall arrive at the strait waistcoat and mufflers soon . 
whether Tackleton had done anything to deserve her thanks , or not . 
'Bertha ! said Tackleton , assuming , for the nonce , a little cordiality . 
'Oh ! I can come straight to you ! You needn't guide me ! she rejoined . 
'Shall I tell you a secret , Bertha ? 'If you will ! she answered , eagerly . 
'I thought so , said Tackleton . 
'I should like to join the party . 
'Do you hear that , father ! cried the Blind Girl in an ecstasy . 
'Yes , yes , I hear it , murmured Caleb , with the fixed look of a sleep walker 'but I don't believe it . 
It's one of my lies , I've no doubt . 
'You see I I want to bring the Peerybingles a little more into company with May Fielding , said Tackleton . 
'I am going to be married to May . 
'Married ! cried the Blind Girl , starting from him . 
'She's such a con founded Idiot , muttered Tackleton , 'that I was afraid she'd never comprehend me . 
A wedding , you know a wedding . 
Don't you know what a wedding is ? 'I know , replied the Blind Girl , in a gentle tone . 
'I understand ! 'Do you ? muttered Tackleton . 
'It's more than I expected . 
Well ! On that account I want to join the party , and to bring May and her mother . 
I'll send in a little something or other , before the afternoon . 
A cold leg of mutton , or some comfortable trifle of that sort . 
You'll expect me ? 'Yes , she answered . 
She had drooped her head , and turned away and so stood , with her hands crossed , musing . 
'I don't think you will , muttered Tackleton , looking at her 'for you seem to have forgotten all about it , already . 
Caleb ! 'I may venture to say I'm here , I suppose , thought Caleb . 
'Sir ! 'Take care she don't forget what I've been saying to her . 
'SHE never forgets , returned Caleb . 
'It's one of the few things she an't clever in . 
'Every man thinks his own geese swans , observed the Toy merchant , with a shrug . 
'Poor devil ! Having delivered himself of which remark , with infinite contempt , old Gruff and Tackleton withdrew . 
Bertha remained where he had left her , lost in meditation . 
The gaiety had vanished from her downcast face , and it was very sad . 
Three or four times she shook her head , as if bewailing some remembrance or some loss but her sorrowful reflections found no vent in words . 
I want my eyes , my patient , willing eyes . 
'Here they are , said Caleb . 
They are more yours than mine , Bertha , any hour in the four and twenty . 
What shall your eyes do for you , dear ? 'Look round the room , father . 
'All right , said Caleb . 
'No sooner said than done , Bertha . 
'It's much the same as usual , said Caleb . 
'Homely , but very snug . 
Cheerful and neat it was wherever Bertha's hands could busy themselves . 
But nowhere else , were cheerfulness and neatness possible , in the old crazy shed which Caleb's fancy so transformed . 
'You have your working dress on , and are not so gallant as when you wear the handsome coat ? said Bertha , touching him . 
'Not quite so gallant , answered Caleb . 
'Father , said the Blind Girl , drawing close to his side , and stealing one arm round his neck , 'tell me something about May . 
She is very fair ? 'She is indeed , said Caleb . 
It was quite a rare thing to Caleb , not to have to draw on his invention . 
'Her hair is dark , said Bertha , pensively , 'darker than mine . 
Her voice is sweet and musical , I know . 
I have often loved to hear it . 
Her shape 'There's not a Doll's in all the room to equal it , said Caleb . 
'And her eyes ! He stopped for Bertha had drawn closer round his neck , and from the arm that clung about him , came a warning pressure which he understood too well . 
He coughed a moment , hammered for a moment , and then fell back upon the song about the sparkling bowl his infallible resource in all such difficulties . 
'Our friend , father , our benefactor . 
I am never tired , you know , of hearing about him . 
Now , was I ever ? she said , hastily . 
'Of course not , answered Caleb , 'and with reason . 
'Ah ! With how much reason ! cried the Blind Girl . 
'Then , tell me again about him , dear father , said Bertha . 
'Many times again ! His face is benevolent , kind , and tender . 
Honest and true , I am sure it is . 
The manly heart that tries to cloak all favours with a show of roughness and unwillingness , beats in its every look and glance . 
'And makes it noble ! added Caleb , in his quiet desperation . 
'And makes it noble ! cried the Blind Girl . 
'He is older than May , father . 
'Ye es , said Caleb , reluctantly . 
'He's a little older than May . 
'I love her , father I can love her from my soul ! exclaimed the Blind Girl . 
And saying so , she laid her poor blind face on Caleb's shoulder , and so wept and wept , that he was almost sorry to have brought that tearful happiness upon her . 
between two blankets for the best part of an hour . 
After which , he went to sleep again . 
As to a chair , or anything of that kind for helping Mrs. Peerybingle into the cart , you know very little of John , if you think THAT was necessary . 
But as this might be considered ungenteel , I'll think of it . 
'John ? You've got the Basket with the Veal and Ham Pie and things , and the bottles of Beer ? said Dot . 
'If you haven't , you must turn round again , this very minute . 
'You're a nice little article , returned the Carrier , 'to be talking about turning round , after keeping me a full quarter of an hour behind my time . 
Way ! This monosyllable was addressed to the horse , who didn't mind it at all . 
'Oh DO way , John ! said Mrs. Peerybingle . 
'Please ! 'It'll be time enough to do that , returned John , 'when I begin to leave things behind me . 
The basket's here , safe enough . 
Regularly once a fortnight ever since we have been married , John , have we made our little Pic Nic there . 
If anything was to go wrong with it , I should almost think we were never to be lucky again . 
'It was a kind thought in the first instance , said the Carrier 'and I honour you for it , little woman . 
'My dear John , replied Dot , turning very red , 'don't talk about honouring ME . 
Good Gracious ! 'By the bye observed the Carrier . 
'That old gentleman Again so visibly , and instantly embarrassed ! 'He's an odd fish , said the Carrier , looking straight along the road before them . 
'I can't make him out . 
I don't believe there's any harm in him . 
I'm I'm sure there's none at all . 
'Yes , said the Carrier , with his eyes attracted to her face by the great earnestness of her manner . 
'I am glad you feel so certain of it , because it's a confirmation to me . 
It's curious that he should have taken it into his head to ask leave to go on lodging with us an't it ? Things come about so strangely . 
'So very strangely , she rejoined in a low voice , scarcely audible . 
'However , he's a good natured old gentleman , said John , 'and pays as a gentleman , and I think his word is to be relied upon , like a gentleman's . 
I had quite a long talk with him this morning he can hear me better already , he says , as he gets more used to my voice . 
He told me a great deal about himself , and I told him a great deal about myself , and a rare lot of questions he asked me . 
and he seemed quite pleased . 
Why , then I shall be returning home to night your way , he says , when I thought you'd be coming in an exactly opposite direction . 
That's capital ! I may trouble you for another lift perhaps , but I'll engage not to fall so sound asleep again . 
He WAS sound asleep , sure ly ! Dot ! what are you thinking of ? 'Thinking of , John ? I I was listening to you . 
'O ! That's all right ! said the honest Carrier . 
'I was afraid , from the look of your face , that I had gone rambling on so long , as to set you thinking about something else . 
I was very near it , I'll be bound . 
Dot making no reply , they jogged on , for some little time , in silence . 
But , it was not easy to remain silent very long in John Peerybingle's cart , for everybody on the road had something to say . 
The trip was a little foggy , to be sure , in the January weather and was raw and cold . 
But who cared for such trifles ? Not Dot , decidedly . 
Not Tilly Slowboy , for she deemed sitting in a cart , on any terms , to be the highest point of human joys the crowning circumstance of earthly hopes . 
The hedges were tangled and bare , and waved a multitude of blighted garlands in the wind but there was no discouragement in this . 
It was agreeable to contemplate for it made the fireside warmer in possession , and the summer greener in expectancy . 
The river looked chilly but it was in motion , and moving at a good pace which was a great point . 
The canal was rather slow and torpid that must be admitted . 
Boxer , by the way , made certain delicate distinctions of his own , in his communication with Bertha , which persuade me fully that he knew her to be blind . 
He never sought to attract her attention by looking at her , as he often did with other people , but touched her invariably . 
What experience he could ever have had of blind people or blind dogs , I don't know . 
'May ! My dear old friend ! cried Dot , running up to meet her . 
'What a happiness to see you . 
Tackleton was a man of taste beyond all question . 
Tackleton had brought his leg of mutton , and , wonderful to relate , a tart besides but we don't mind a little dissipation when our brides are in the case . 
, Tackleton led his intended mother in law to the post of honour . 
For the better gracing of this place at the high festival , the majestic old soul had adorned herself with a cap , calculated to inspire the thoughtless with sentiments of awe . 
She also wore her gloves . 
As Tilly stared about her at the dolls and toys , they stared at her and at the company . 
Certainly , if these old gentlemen were inclined to have a fiendish joy in the contemplation of Tackleton's discomfiture , they had good reason to be satisfied . 
Tackleton couldn't get on at all and the more cheerful his intended bride became in Dot's society , the less he liked it , though he had brought them together for that purpose . 
'Ah , May ! said Dot . 
'Dear dear , what changes ! To talk of those merry school days makes one young again . 
'Why , you an't particularly old , at any time are you ? said Tackleton . 
'Look at my sober plodding husband there , returned Dot . 
'He adds twenty years to my age at least . 
Don't you , John ? 'Forty , John replied . 
'How many YOU'll add to May's , I am sure I don't know , said Dot , laughing . 
'But she can't be much less than a hundred years of age on her next birthday . 
'Ha ha ! laughed Tackleton . 
Hollow as a drum , that laugh though . 
And he looked as if he could have twisted Dot's neck , comfortably . 
'Dear dear ! said Dot . 
'Only to remember how we used to talk , at school , about the husbands we would choose . 
May seemed to know which to do for the colour flushed into her face , and tears stood in her eyes . 
'Even the very persons themselves real live young men were fixed on sometimes , said Dot . 
'We little thought how things would come about . 
I never fixed on John I'm sure I never so much as thought of him . 
And if I had told you , you were ever to be married to Mr. Tackleton , why you'd have slapped me . 
Wouldn't you , May ? Though May didn't say yes , she certainly didn't say no , or express no , by any means . 
Tackleton laughed quite shouted , he laughed so loud . 
John Peerybingle laughed too , in his ordinary good natured and contented manner but his was a mere whisper of a laugh , to Tackleton's . 
'You couldn't help yourselves , for all that . 
You couldn't resist us , you see , said Tackleton . 
'Here we are ! Here we are ! 'Where are your gay young bridegrooms now ! 'Some of them are dead , said Dot 'and some of them forgotten . 
No ! they would not believe one word of it ! 'Why , Dot ! exclaimed the Carrier . 
'Little woman ! She had spoken with such earnestness and fire , that she stood in need of some recalling to herself , without doubt . 
Her husband's cheek was very gentle , for he merely interfered , as he supposed , to shield old Tackleton but it proved effectual , for she stopped , and said no more . 
May uttered no word , good or bad , but sat quite still , with her eyes cast down , and made no sign of interest in what had passed . 
For you ought to know that he only rested there , and gave the old horse a bait . 
He had to go some four of five miles farther on and when he returned in the evening , he called for Dot , and took another rest on his way home . 
This was the order of the day on all the Pic Nic occasions , had been , ever since their institution . 
There were two persons present , besides the bride and bridegroom elect , who did but indifferent honour to the toast . 
'Good bye ! said stout John Peerybingle , pulling on his dreadnought coat . 
'I shall be back at the old time . 
Good bye all ! 'Good bye , John , returned Caleb . 
'Come , come ! returned the Carrier , clapping his sounding hands . 
'Where's the pipe ? 'I quite forgot the pipe , John . 
Forgot the pipe ! Was such a wonder ever heard of ! She ! Forgot the pipe ! 'I'll I'll fill it directly . 
But it was not so soon done , either . 
The filling of the pipe and lighting it , those little offices in which I have commended her discretion , were vilely done , from first to last . 
'Why , what a clumsy Dot you are , this afternoon ! said John . 
What time the dreamy Caleb still stood , watching his blind daughter , with the same expression on his face . 
'Bertha ! said Caleb , softly . 
'What has happened ? How changed you are , my darling , in a few hours since this morning . 
YOU silent and dull all day ! What is it ? Tell me ! 'Oh father , father ! cried the Blind Girl , bursting into tears . 
'Oh my hard , hard fate ! Caleb drew his hand across his eyes before he answered her . 
'But think how cheerful and how happy you have been , Bertha ! How good , and how much loved , by many people . 
'That strikes me to the heart , dear father ! Always so mindful of me ! Always so kind to me ! Caleb was very much perplexed to understand her . 
'To be to be blind , Bertha , my poor dear , he faltered , 'is a great affliction but 'I have never felt it ! cried the Blind Girl . 
'I have never felt it , in its fulness . 
I have wept in my prayers at night , to think that when your images ascended from my heart to Heaven , they might not be the true resemblance of yourselves . 
But I have never had these feelings long . 
They have passed away and left me tranquil and contented . 
'And they will again , said Caleb . 
'But , father ! Oh my good , gentle father , bear with me , if I am wicked ! said the Blind Girl . 
'Bring her to me , said Bertha . 
'I cannot hold it closed and shut within myself . 
Bring her to me , father ! She knew he hesitated , and said , 'May . 
Bring May ! May heard the mention of her name , and coming quietly towards her , touched her on the arm . 
The Blind Girl turned immediately , and held her by both hands . 
'Look into my face , Dear heart , Sweet heart ! said Bertha . 
'Read it with your beautiful eyes , and tell me if the truth is written on it . 
But Dot , recovering her self possession , interposed , before May could reply , or Caleb say another word . 
'Come , come , dear Bertha ! come away with me ! Give her your arm , May . 
So ! How composed she is , you see , already and how good it is of her to mind us , said the cheery little woman , kissing her upon the forehead . 
'Come away , dear Bertha . 
have utterly destroyed and done up that Young Peerybingle , though he had been an Infant Samson . 
By this time it was the established hour for having tea and Tackleton came back again , to share the meal , and spend the evening . 
Caleb and Bertha had returned some time before , and Caleb had sat down to his afternoon's work . 
But he couldn't settle to it , poor fellow , being anxious and remorseful for his daughter . 
Not as good wives are , when listening for their husbands . 
No , no , no . 
It was another sort of restlessness from that . 
The barking of a dog . 
The gradual approach of all the sounds . 
The scratching paw of Boxer at the door ! 'Whose step is that ! cried Bertha , starting up . 
'Whose step ? returned the Carrier , standing in the portal , with his brown face ruddy as a winter berry from the keen night air . 
'The other step , said Bertha . 
'The man's tread behind you ! 'She is not to be deceived , observed the Carrier , laughing . 
You'll be welcome , never fear ! He spoke in a loud tone and as he spoke , the deaf old gentleman entered . 
'He's not so much a stranger , that you haven't seen him once , Caleb , said the Carrier . 
'You'll give him house room till we go ? 'Oh surely , John , and take it as an honour . 
'He's the best company on earth , to talk secrets in , said John . 
'I have reasonable good lungs , but he tries 'em , I can tell you . 
Bertha had been listening intently . 
She called Caleb to her side , when he had set the chair , and asked him , in a low voice , to describe their visitor . 
, she moved , for the first time since he had come in , and sighed , and seemed to have no further interest concerning him . 
The Carrier was in high spirits , good fellow that he was , and fonder of his little wife than ever . 
'A clumsy Dot she was , this afternoon ! he said , encircling her with his rough arm , as she stood , removed from the rest 'and yet I like her somehow . 
See yonder , Dot ! He pointed to the old man . 
'He's ha ha ha ! he's full of admiration for you ! said the Carrier . 
'Talked of nothing else , the whole way here . 
Why , he's a brave old boy . 
I like him for it ! 'I wish he had had a better subject , John , she said , with an uneasy glance about the room . 
'A better subject ! cried the jovial John . 
A game at cribbage , you and I ? That's hearty . 
The cards and board , Dot . 
Thus , his whole attention gradually became absorbed upon the cards and he thought of nothing else , until a hand upon his shoulder restored him to a consciousness of Tackleton . 
'I am sorry to disturb you but a word , directly . 
'I'm going to deal , returned the Carrier . 
'It is , said Tackleton . 
'Come here , man ! There was that in his pale face which made the other rise immediately , and ask him , in a hurry , what the matter was . 
'Hush ! John Peerybingle , said Tackleton . 
'I am sorry for this . 
I have been afraid of it . 
I have suspected it from the first . 
'What is it ? asked the Carrier , with a frightened aspect . 
'Hush ! I'll show you , if you'll come with me . 
The Carrier accompanied him , without another word . 
There was no light in the counting house itself , but there were lamps in the long narrow ware room and consequently the window was bright . 
'A moment ! said Tackleton . 
'Can you bear to look through that window , do you think ? 'Why not ? returned the Carrier . 
'A moment more , said Tackleton . 
You're a strong made man and you might do murder before you know it . 
The Carrier looked him in the face , and recoiled a step as if he had been struck . 
, and so , as they passed out , fell down upon a desk , and was as weak as any infant . 
He was wrapped up to the chin , and busy with his horse and parcels , when she came into the room , prepared for going home . 
Tackleton observed her closely , and she did all this . 
Where's John , for goodness' sake ? 'He's going to walk beside the horse's head , said Tackleton who helped her to her seat . 
Boxer , the unconscious Boxer , running on before , running back , running round and round the cart , and barking as triumphantly and merrily as ever . 
CHAPTER III Chirp the Third THE Dutch clock in the corner struck Ten , when the Carrier sat down by his fireside . 
The Stranger was beneath his outraged roof . 
Three steps would take him to his chamber door . 
One blow would beat it in . 
'You might do murder before you know it , Tackleton had said . 
How could it be murder , if he gave the villain time to grapple with him hand to hand ! He was the younger man . 
It was an ill timed thought , bad for the dark mood of his mind . 
He was the younger man ! Yes , yes some lover who had won the heart that HE had never touched . 
Some lover of her early choice , of whom she had thought and dreamed , for whom she had pined and pined , when he had fancied her so happy by his side . 
O agony to think of it ! She had been above stairs with the Baby , getting it to bed . 
He only knew it , when he felt her hand upon his own , and saw her looking up into his face . 
With wonder ? No. It was his first impression , and he was fain to look at her again , to set it right . 
No , not with wonder . 
With an eager and inquiring look but not with wonder . 
This in itself was anguish keener than all , reminding him how desolate he was become , and how the great bond of his life was rent asunder . 
He looked about him for a weapon . 
There was a gun , hanging on the wall . 
He took it down , and moved a pace or two towards the door of the perfidious Stranger's room . 
He knew the gun was loaded . 
Not casting out his milder thoughts , but artfully transforming them . 
Changing them into scourges to drive him on . 
Turning water into blood , love into hate , gentleness into blind ferocity . 
He recoiled from the door , like a man walking in his sleep , awakened from a frightful dream and put the gun aside . 
Clasping his hands before his face , he then sat down again beside the fire , and found relief in tears . 
The Cricket on the Hearth came out into the room , and stood in Fairy shape before him . 
'She said so ! cried the Carrier . 
'True ! This has been a happy home , John and I love the Cricket for its sake ! 'It has been , Heaven knows , returned the Carrier . 
'She made it happy , always , until now . 
'So gracefully sweet tempered so domestic , joyful , busy , and light hearted ! said the Voice . 
'Otherwise I never could have loved her as I did , returned the Carrier . 
The Voice , correcting him , said 'do . 
The Carrier repeated 'as I did . 
His faltering tongue resisted his control , and would speak in its own way , for itself and him . 
The Figure , in an attitude of invocation , raised its hand and said 'Upon your own hearth 'The hearth she has blighted , interposed the Carrier . 
'All things that speak the language of your hearth and home , must plead for her ! returned the Cricket . 
'For they speak the truth . 
It was not a solitary Presence . 
Not to stand beside him as the Cricket did , but to busy and bestir themselves . 
To do all honour to her image . 
To pull him by the skirts , and point to it when it appeared . 
To cluster round it , and embrace it , and strew flowers for it to tread on . 
To try to crown its fair head with their tiny hands . 
His thoughts were constant to her image . 
She sat plying her needle , before the fire , and singing to herself . 
A crowd of young merry makers came pouring in , among whom were May Fielding and a score of pretty girls . 
Dot was the fairest of them all as young as any of them too . 
They came to summon her to join their party . 
If ever little foot were made for dancing , hers was , surely . 
And yet indifference was not her character . 
A great shadow of the Stranger , as he first stood underneath their roof covering its surface , and blotting out all other objects . 
But the nimble Fairies worked like bees to clear it off again . 
And Dot again was there . 
Perhaps some calm and quiet light had risen also , in his mind and he could think more soberly of what had happened . 
Although the shadow of the Stranger fell at intervals upon the glass always distinct , and big , and thoroughly defined it never fell so darkly as at first . 
Whenever it appeared , the Fairies uttered a general cry of consternation , and plied their little arms and legs , with inconceivable activity , to rub it out . 
And whenever they got at Dot again , and showed her to him once more , bright and beautiful , they cheered in the most inspiring manner . 
As he had seen her last . 
The moon went down the stars grew pale the cold day broke the sun rose . 
The Carrier still sat , musing , in the chimney corner . 
He had sat there , with his head upon his hands , all night . 
All night the faithful Cricket had been Chirp , Chirp , Chirping on the Hearth . 
All night he had listened to its voice . 
All night the household Fairies had been busy with him . 
All night she had been amiable and blameless in the glass , except when that one shadow fell upon it . 
He rose up when it was broad day , and washed and dressed himself . 
He thought to have gone merrily to church with Dot . 
But such plans were at an end . 
It was their own wedding day too . 
Ah ! how little he had looked for such a close to such a year ! The Carrier had expected that Tackleton would pay him an early visit and he was right . 
He had not walked to and fro before his own door , many minutes , when he saw the Toy merchant coming in his chaise along the road . 
As the chaise drew nearer , he perceived that Tackleton was dressed out sprucely for his marriage , and that he had decorated his horse's head with flowers and favours . 
The horse looked much more like a bridegroom than Tackleton , whose half closed eye was more disagreeably expressive than ever . 
But the Carrier took little heed of this . 
His thoughts had other occupation . 
'John Peerybingle ! said Tackleton , with an air of condolence . 
But it's over now ! Can you spare me half an hour or so , for some private talk ? 'I came on purpose , returned Tackleton , alighting . 
He'll stand quiet enough , with the reins over this post , if you'll give him a mouthful of hay . 
The Carrier having brought it from his stable , and set it before him , they turned into the house . 
'You are not married before noon , he said , 'I think ? 'No , answered Tackleton . 
When they entered the kitchen , Tilly Slowboy was rapping at the Stranger's door which was only removed from it by a few steps . 
was at the keyhole and she was knocking very loud and seemed frightened . 
'If you please I can't make nobody hear , said Tilly , looking round . 
'Shall I go ? said Tackleton . 
The Carrier , who had turned his face from the door , signed to him to go if he would . 
So Tackleton went to Tilly Slowboy's relief and he too kicked and knocked and he too failed to get the least reply . 
But he thought of trying the handle of the door and as it opened easily , he peeped in , looked in , went in , and soon came running out again . 
'John Peerybingle , said Tackleton , in his ear . 
'I hope there has been nothing nothing rash in the night ? The Carrier turned upon him quickly . 
'Because he's gone ! said Tackleton 'and the window's open . 
I don't see any marks to be sure it's almost on a level with the garden but I was afraid there might have been some some scuffle . 
Eh ? He nearly shut up the expressive eye altogether he looked at him so hard . 
And he gave his eye , and his face , and his whole person , a sharp twist . 
As if he would have screwed the truth out of him . 
'Make yourself easy , said the Carrier . 
'He went into that room last night , without harm in word or deed from me , and no one has entered it since . 
He is away of his own free will . 
I'd go out gladly at that door , and beg my bread from house to house , for life , if I could so change the past that he had never come . 
But he has come and gone . 
And I have done with him ! 'Oh ! Well , I think he has got off pretty easy , said Tackleton , taking a chair . 
The sneer was lost upon the Carrier , who sat down too , and shaded his face with his hand , for some little time , before proceeding . 
'You showed me last night , he said at length , 'my wife my wife that I love secretly 'And tenderly , insinuated Tackleton . 
'Conniving at that man's disguise , and giving him opportunities of meeting her alone . 
I think there's no sight I wouldn't have rather seen than that . 
I think there's no man in the world I wouldn't have rather had to show it me . 
'I confess to having had my suspicions always , said Tackleton . 
'And that has made me objectionable here , I know . 
For it's settled , said the Carrier , regarding him attentively . 
'And nothing can shake it now . 
Tackleton muttered a few general words of assent , about its being necessary to vindicate something or other but he was overawed by the manner of his companion . 
Plain and unpolished as it was , it had a something dignified and noble in it , which nothing but the soul of generous honour dwelling in the man could have imparted . 
'I am a plain , rough man , pursued the Carrier , 'with very little to recommend me . 
I am not a clever man , as you very well know . 
I am not a young man . 
And in the end it came about , and we were married . 
'Hah ! said Tackleton , with a significant shake of the head . 
'I had studied myself I had had experience of myself I knew how much I loved her , and how happy I should be , pursued the Carrier . 
'But I had not I feel it now sufficiently considered her . 
'To be sure , said Tackleton . 
I took advantage of her hopeful nature and her cheerful disposition and I married her . 
I wish I never had ! For her sake not for mine ! The Toy merchant gazed at him , without winking . 
Even the half shut eye was open now . 
'She made such a show of it , that to tell you the truth it was the origin of my misgivings . 
And here he asserted the superiority of May Fielding , who certainly made no sort of show of being fond of HIM . 
'Here alone ? said Tackleton . 
I can release her from the daily pain of an unequal marriage , and the struggle to conceal it . 
She shall be as free as I can render her . 
'Make HER reparation ! exclaimed Tackleton , twisting and turning his great ears with his hands . 
'There must be something wrong here . 
You didn't say that , of course . 
The Carrier set his grip upon the collar of the Toy merchant , and shook him like a reed . 
'Listen to me ! he said . 
'And take care that you hear me right . 
Do I speak plainly ? 'Very plainly indeed , answered Tackleton . 
'As if I meant it ? 'Very much as if you meant it . 
'I sat upon that hearth , last night , all night , exclaimed the Carrier . 
'On the spot where she has often sat beside me , with her sweet face looking into mine . 
I called up her whole life , day by day . 
I had her dear self , in its every passage , in review before me . 
In an unhappy moment some old lover , better suited to her tastes and years than I forsaken , perhaps , for me , against her will returned . 
In an unhappy moment , taken by surprise , and wanting time to think of what she did , she made herself a party to his treachery , by concealing it . 
Last night she saw him , in the interview we witnessed . 
But otherwise than this she is innocent if there is truth on earth ! 'If that is your opinion' Tackleton began . 
'So , let her go ! pursued the Carrier . 
'Go , with my blessing for the many happy hours she has given me , and my forgiveness for any pang she has caused me . 
Let her go , and have the peace of mind I wish her ! She'll never hate me . 
She'll learn to like me better , when I'm not a drag upon her , and she wears the chain I have riveted , more lightly . 
This is the day on which I took her , with so little thought for her enjoyment , from her home . 
To day she shall return to it , and I will trouble her no more . 
Her father and mother will be here to day we had made a little plan for keeping it together and they shall take her home . 
I can trust her , there , or anywhere . 
She leaves me without blame , and she will live so I am sure . 
Now , it's over ! 'O no , John , not over . 
Do not say it's over yet ! Not quite yet . 
I have heard your noble words . 
I could not steal away , pretending to be ignorant of what has affected me with such deep gratitude . 
Do not say it's over , 'till the clock has struck again ! She had entered shortly after Tackleton , and had remained there . 
She never looked at Tackleton , but fixed her eyes upon her husband . 
But she kept away from him , setting as wide a space as possible between them and though she spoke with most impassioned earnestness , she went no nearer to him even then . 
'But let it be so , if you will , my dear . 
It's of little matter what we say . 
I'd try to please you in a harder case than that . 
'I must be off , for when the clock strikes again , it'll be necessary for me to be upon my way to church . 
Good morning , John Peerybingle . 
I'm sorry to be deprived of the pleasure of your company . 
Sorry for the loss , and the occasion of it too ! 'I have spoken plainly ? said the Carrier , accompanying him to the door . 
'The better for us both , returned the Carrier . 
I give you joy ! 'I wish I could give it to YOU , said Tackleton . 
I don't much think I shall have the less joy in my married life , because May hasn't been too officious about me , and too demonstrative . 
Good bye ! Take care of yourself . 
, that Tilly was quite horrified . 
'Ow if you please don't ! said Tilly . 
'It's enough to dead and bury the Baby , so it is if you please . 
, if her eyes had not encountered Caleb Plummer , leading in his daughter . 
'Not at the marriage ! 'I told her you would not be there , mum , whispered Caleb . 
'I heard as much last night . 
But bless you , said the little man , taking her tenderly by both hands , 'I don't care for what they say . 
'Bertha couldn't stay at home this morning , said Caleb . 
'She was afraid , I know , to hear the bells ring , and couldn't trust herself to be so near them on their wedding day . 
So we started in good time , and came here . 
You'll stay with me the while ? he inquired , trembling from head to foot . 
'I don't know what effect it may have upon her I don't know what she'll think of me I don't know that she'll ever care for her poor father afterwards . 
'I heard them speaking softly among themselves , last night , of some blame against you . 
The Carrier's Wife was silent . 
'They were wrong , he said . 
'I knew it ! cried Bertha , proudly . 
I scorned to hear a word ! Blame HER with justice ! she pressed the hand between her own , and the soft cheek against her face . 
'No ! I am not so blind as that . 
Her father went on one side of her , while Dot remained upon the other holding her hand . 
'I know you all , said Bertha , 'better than you think . 
But none so well as her . 
Not even you , father . 
There is nothing half so real and so true about me , as she is . 
Hear me kindly ! I have a confession to make to you , my darling . 
'A confession , father ? 'I have wandered from the truth and lost myself , my child , said Caleb , with a pitiable expression in his bewildered face . 
'I have wandered from the truth , intending to be kind to you and have been cruel . 
She turned her wonder stricken face towards him , and repeated 'Cruel ! 'He accuses himself too strongly , Bertha , said Dot . 
'You'll say so , presently . 
You'll be the first to tell him so . 
'He cruel to me ! cried Bertha , with a smile of incredulity . 
'Not meaning it , my child , said Caleb . 
'But I have been though I never suspected it , till yesterday . 
My dear blind daughter , hear me and forgive me ! The world you live in , heart of mine , doesn't exist as I have represented it . 
The eyes you have trusted in , have been false to you . 
She turned her wonder stricken face towards him still but drew back , and clung closer to her friend . 
'Your road in life was rough , my poor one , said Caleb , 'and I meant to smooth it for you . 
I have altered objects , changed the characters of people , invented many things that never have been , to make you happier . 
I have had concealments from you , put deceptions on you , God forgive me ! and surrounded you with fancies . 
'But living people are not fancies ! she said hurriedly , and turning very pale , and still retiring from him . 
'I have done so , Bertha , pleaded Caleb . 
'There is one person that you know , my dove 'Oh father ! why do you say , I know ? she answered , in a term of keen reproach . 
'What and whom do I know ! I who have no leader ! I so miserably blind . 
'The marriage that takes place to day , said Caleb , 'is with a stern , sordid , grinding man . 
A hard master to you and me , my dear , for many years . 
Ugly in his looks , and in his nature . 
Unlike what I have painted him to you in everything , my child . 
She had been but a short time in this passion of regret , when the Cricket on the Hearth , unheard by all but her , began to chirp . 
Not merrily , but in a low , faint , sorrowing way . 
She heard the Cricket voice more plainly soon , and was conscious , through her blindness , of the Presence hovering about her father . 
'Mary , said the Blind Girl , 'tell me what my home is . 
'It is a poor place , Bertha very poor and bare indeed . 
The house will scarcely keep out wind and rain another winter . 
It is as roughly shielded from the weather , Bertha , Dot continued in a low , clear voice , 'as your poor father in his sack cloth coat . 
The Blind Girl , greatly agitated , rose , and led the Carrier's little wife aside . 
'Who then ? Dot saw she knew , already , and was silent . 
The Blind Girl spread her hands before her face again . 
But in quite another manner now . 
'Dear Mary , a moment . 
One moment ? More this way . 
You are true , I know . 
You'd not deceive me now would you ? 'No , Bertha , indeed ! 'No , I am sure you would not . 
You have too much pity for me . 
Mary , look across the room to where we were just now to where my father is my father , so compassionate and loving to me and tell me what you see . 
'I see , said Dot , who understood her well , 'an old man sitting in a chair , and leaning sorrowfully on the back , with his face resting on his hand . 
As if his child should comfort him , Bertha . 
'He is an old man , worn with care and work . 
He is a spare , dejected , thoughtful , grey haired man . 
I see him now , despondent and bowed down , and striving against nothing . 
But , Bertha , I have seen him many times before , and striving hard in many ways for one great sacred object . 
'It is my sight restored . 
It is my sight ! she cried . 
'I have been blind , and now my eyes are open . 
I never knew him ! To think I might have died , and never truly seen the father who has been so loving to me ! There were no words for Caleb's emotion . 
'He's gone ! 'Nothing is gone , she answered . 
'Dearest father , no ! Everything is here in you . 
Nothing is dead to me . 
The soul of all that was most dear to me is here here , with the worn face , and the grey head . 
'Father , said Bertha , hesitating . 
'Yes , my dear , returned Caleb . 
'There is no change in HER . 
But I must have changed her for the worse , if I had changed her at all . 
Nothing could improve her , Bertha . 
Confident as the Blind Girl had been when she asked the question , her delight and pride in the reply and her renewed embrace of Dot , were charming to behold . 
'More changes than you think for , may happen though , my dear , said Dot . 
'Changes for the better , I mean changes for great joy to some of us . 
You mustn't let them startle you too much , if any such should ever happen , and affect you ? Are those wheels upon the road ? You've a quick ear , Bertha . 
Are they wheels ? 'Yes . 
Though as I said just now , there are great changes in the world great changes and we can't do better than prepare ourselves to be surprised at hardly anything . 
Caleb wondered what this meant perceiving that she spoke to him , no less than to his daughter . 
He saw her , with astonishment , so fluttered and distressed that she could scarcely breathe and holding to a chair , to save herself from falling . 
'They are wheels indeed ! she panted . 
'Is it over ? cried Dot . 
'Yes ! 'Happily over ? 'Yes ! 'Do you recollect the voice , dear Caleb ? Did you ever hear the like of it before ? cried Dot . 
'If my boy in the Golden South Americas was alive' said Caleb , trembling . 
And well he might , to find himself in such good company . 
'Tell him all , Edward and don't spare me , for nothing shall make me spare myself in his eyes , ever again . 
'I was the man , said Edward . 
'And could you steal , disguised , into the house of your old friend ? rejoined the Carrier . 
'There was a generous friend of mine , once more a father to me than a friend said Edward , 'who never would have judged me , or any other man , unheard . 
So I am certain you will hear me now . 
The Carrier , with a troubled glance at Dot , who still kept far away from him , replied , 'Well ! that's but fair . 
'You must know that when I left here , a boy , said Edward , 'I was in love , and my love was returned . 
She was a very young girl , who perhaps didn't know her own mind . 
But I knew mine , and I had a passion for her . 
'You had ! exclaimed the Carrier . 
'You ! 'Indeed I had , returned the other . 
I have ever since believed she did , and now I am sure she did . 
'Heaven help me ! said the Carrier . 
'This is worse than all . 
I had no mind to reproach her but I wished to see her , and to prove beyond dispute that this was true . 
I hoped she might have been forced into it , against her own desire and recollection . 
It would be small comfort , but it would be some , I thought , and on I came . 
before her , on the other I dressed myself unlike myself you know how and waited on the road you know where . 
You had no suspicion of me neither had had she , pointing to Dot , 'until I whispered in her ear at that fireside , and she so nearly betrayed me . 
There never were congratulations so endearing and delicious , as those she lavished on herself and on the Bride . 
Amid the tumult of emotions in his breast , the honest Carrier had stood , confounded . 
Flying , now , towards her , Dot stretched out her hand to stop him , and retreated as before . 
'No , John , no ! Hear all ! Don't love me any more , John , till you've heard every word I have to say . 
It was wrong to have a secret from you , John . 
I'm very sorry I didn't think it any harm , till I came and sat down by you on the little stool last night . 
But oh , dear John , how could you , could you , think so ! Little woman , how she sobbed again ! John Peerybingle would have caught her in his arms . 
But no she wouldn't let him . 
You believe that , now . 
Don't you , John ? John was going to make another rush at this appeal but she stopped him again . 
'Hooroar ! said Caleb with unusual vigour . 
She saw that he was coming and stopped him again . 
But she was very nearly too late . 
'No , don't love me for another minute or two , if you please , John ! What I want most to tell you , I have kept to the last . 
And if I could have loved you better than I do , the noble words I heard you say this morning , would have made me . 
I gave you , as you well deserve , long , long ago , and I have no more left to give . 
It was the most complete , unmitigated , soul fraught little piece of earnestness that ever you beheld in all your days . 
But , now , the sound of wheels was heard again outside the door and somebody exclaimed that Gruff and Tackleton was coming back . 
Speedily that worthy gentleman appeared , looking warm and flustered . 
'Why , what the Devil's this , John Peerybingle ! said Tackleton . 
I appointed Mrs. Tackleton to meet me at the church , and I'll swear I passed her on the road , on her way here . 
'But I can't spare her , returned Edward . 
'I couldn't think of it . 
'What do you mean , you vagabond ? said Tackleton . 
Tackleton looked hard at the third finger , and took a little piece of silver paper , apparently containing a ring , from his waistcoat pocket . 
'Miss Slowboy , said Tackleton . 
'Will you have the kindness to throw that in the fire ? Thank'ee . 
'It was a previous engagement , quite an old engagement , that prevented my wife from keeping her appointment with you , I assure you , said Edward . 
'Oh certainly ! said Tackleton . 
Mrs. Edward Plummer , I infer ? 'That's the name , returned the bridegroom . 
'Ah , I shouldn't have known you , sir , said Tackleton , scrutinising his face narrowly , and making a low bow . 
'I give you joy , sir ! 'Thank'ee . 
Peerybingle , said Tackleton , turning suddenly to where she stood with her husband 'I am sorry . 
You haven't done me a very great kindness , but , upon my life I am sorry . 
You are better than I thought you . 
John Peerybingle , I am sorry . 
You understand me that's enough . 
It's quite correct , ladies and gentlemen all , and perfectly satisfactory . 
Tilly never came out in such force before . 
Her ubiquity was the theme of general admiration . 
The Baby's head was , as it were , a test and touchstone for every description of matter , animal , vegetable , and mineral . 
Nothing was in use that day that didn't come , at some time or other , into close acquaintance with it . 
They were so like each other . 
Then , Dot's mother had to renew her acquaintance with May's mother and May's mother always stood on her gentility and Dot's mother never stood on anything but her active little feet . 
I wouldn't have missed Dot , doing the honours in her wedding gown , my benison on her bright face ! for any money . 
No ! nor the good Carrier , so jovial and so ruddy , at the bottom of the table . 
Nor the brown , fresh sailor fellow , and his handsome wife . 
Nor any one among them . 
After dinner , Caleb sang the song about the Sparkling Bowl . 
As I'm a living man , hoping to keep so , for a year or two , he sang it through . 
And , by the by , a most unlooked for incident occurred , just as he finished the last verse . 
There was a tap at the door and a man came staggering in , without saying with your leave , or by your leave , with something heavy on his head . 
Setting this down in the middle of the table , symmetrically in the centre of the nuts and apples , he said 'Mr . 
Tackleton's compliments , and as he hasn't got no use for the cake himself , p'raps you'll eat it . 
And with those words , he walked off . 
There was some surprise among the company , as you may imagine . 
But she was overruled by acclamation and the cake was cut by May , with much ceremony and rejoicing . 
Tackleton's compliments , and he's sent a few toys for the Babby . 
After the delivery of which expressions , he retired again . 
The whole party would have experienced great difficulty in finding words for their astonishment , even if they had had ample time to seek them . 
But they had none at all for the messenger had scarcely shut the door behind him , when there came another tap , and Tackleton himself walked in . 
Peerybingle ! said the Toy merchant , hat in hand . 
I'm more sorry than I was this morning . 
I have had time to think of it . 
John Peerybingle ! I'm sour by disposition but I can't help being sweetened , more or less , by coming face to face with such a man as you . 
Caleb ! This unconscious little nurse gave me a broken hint last night , of which I have found the thread . 
I have not so much as a Cricket on my Hearth . 
I have scared them all away . 
Be gracious to me let me join this happy party ! He was at home in five minutes . 
You never saw such a fellow . 
He had gone with the cart to its journey's end , very much disgusted with the absence of his master , and stupendously rebellious to the Deputy . 
But suddenly yielding to the conviction that the Deputy was a humbug , and must be abandoned , he had got up again , turned tail , and come home . 
There was a dance in the evening . 
It was formed in an odd way in this way . 
said her dancing days were over I think because the Carrier was smoking his pipe , and she liked sitting by him , best . 
Mrs. Fielding had no choice , of course , but to say HER dancing days were over , after that and everybody said the same , except May May was ready . 
So , May and Edward got up , amid great applause , to dance alone and Bertha plays her liveliest tune . 
Tackleton no sooner sees this , than he skims across to Mrs. Fielding , takes her round the waist , and follows suit . 
Old Dot no sooner sees this , than up he is , all alive , whisks off Mrs. Dot in the middle of the dance , and is the foremost there . 
A Cricket sings upon the Hearth a broken child's toy lies upon the ground and nothing else remains . 
