AMY FOSTER Kennedy is a country doctor , and lives in Cole brook , on the shores of Eastbay . 
The high ground rising abruptly behind the red roofs of the little town crowds the quaint High Street against the wall which defends it from the sea . 
The brow of the upland overtops the square tower of the Colebrook Church . 
The slope is green and looped by a white road . 
In this valley down to Brenzett and Colebrook and up to Darnford , the market town fourteen miles away , lies the practice of my friend Kennedy . 
He had begun life as surgeon in the Navy , and afterwards had been the companion of a famous traveller , in the days when there were continents with unexplored interiors . 
His papers on the fauna and flora made him known to scientific socie ties . 
And now he had come to a country practice from choice . 
The penetrating power of his mind , acting like a corrosive fluid , had destroyed his ambition , I fancy . 
His intelligence is of a scientific order , of an investigating habit , and of that unappeasable curiosity which believes that there is a particle of a general truth in every mys tery . 
A good many years ago now , on my return from abroad , he invited me to stay with him . 
He had the talent of making people talk to him freely , and an inexhaustible patience in listening to their tales . 
Kennedy pulled up to a walk . 
A woman , in full sunlight , was throwing a dripping blanket over a line stretched between two old ap ple trees . 
With a distinct catch in her breath , her voice sounded low and timid . 
He's well , thank you . 
A young patient of yours , I said and the doctor , flicking the chest nut absently , muttered , Her husband used to be . 
She seems a dull creature , I remarked list lessly . 
She is very pas sive . 
And yet which of us is safe ? At any rate , such as you see her , she had enough imagination to fall in love . 
But this old affair , scandalous enough to serve as a motive for a Greek tragedy , arose from the simi larity of their characters . 
The uniform brownness of the harrowed field glowed with a rosy tinge , as though the powdered clods had sweated out in minute pearls of blood the toil of uncounted ploughmen . 
From the edge of a copse a waggon with two horses was rolling gently along the ridge . 
And the clumsy figure of the man plodding at the head of the leading horse projected itself on the back ground of the Infinite with a heroic uncouthness . 
The end of his carter's whip quivered high up in the blue . 
She's the eldest of a large family . 
At the age of fifteen they put her out to service at the New Barns Farm . 
I attended Mrs. Smith , the tenant's wife , and saw that girl there for the first time . 
Mrs. Smith , a genteel person with a sharp nose , made her put on a black dress every afternoon . 
I don't know what induced me to notice her at all . 
The only pecu liarity I perceived in her was a slight hesitation in her utterance , a sort of preliminary stammer which passes away with the first word . 
When sharply spoken to , she was apt to lose her head at once but her heart was of the kindest . 
She had never been heard to express a dislike for a single human being , and she was tender to every living creature . 
For Mrs. Smith this was another evidence of her stupidity on the other hand , her want of charm , in view of Smith's well known frivolousness , was a great rec commendation . 
She had even more than is necessary to understand suffer ing and to be moved by pity . 
How this aptitude came to her , what it did feed upon , is an inscrutable mystery . 
She was born in the village , and had never been further away from it than Colebrook or perhaps Darnford . 
She lived for four years with the Smiths . 
She never showed a desire for conversation , and , as it seemed to me , she did not know how to smile . 
, seize an absurdly slender parasol , climb over two stiles , tramp over three fields and along two hundred yards of road never further . 
She would help her mother to give their tea to the younger children , wash up the crockery , kiss the little ones , and go back to the farm . 
All the rest , all the change , all the relaxation . 
She never seemed to wish for anything more . 
And then she fell in love . 
She fell in love silently , obstinately perhaps help lessly . 
With the sun hanging low on its western limit , the expanse of the grass lands framed in the coun ter scarps of the rising ground took on a gorgeous and sombre aspect . 
A sense of penetrating sad ness , like that inspired by a grave strain of music , disengaged itself from the silence of the fields . 
He vaulted over the stiles , paced these slopes with a long elastic stride that made him noticeable at a great distance , and had lustrous black eyes . 
Shipwrecked in the bay ? I said . 
Yes he was a castaway . 
A poor emigrant from Central Europe bound to America and washed ashore here in a storm . 
And for him , who knew nothing of the earth , England was an undiscovered country . 
But he struggled instinc tively like an animal under a net , and this blind struggle threw him out into a field . 
He must have been , indeed , of a tougher fibre than he looked to withstand without expiring such buffetings , the violence of his exertions , and so much fear . 
They ran off in all directions , bleating in the darkness , and he welcomed the first familiar sound he heard on these shores . 
It must have been two in the morning then . 
And this is all we know of the manner of his landing , though he did not arrive unattended by any means . 
Only his grisly company did not begin to come ashore till much later in the day . 
The doctor gathered the reins , clicked his tongue we trotted down the hill . 
Then turning , almost directly , a sharp corner into the High Street , we rattled over the stones and were home . 
Late in the evening Kennedy , breaking a spell of moodiness that had come over him , returned to the story . 
Smoking his pipe , he paced the long room from end to end . 
The relations of shipwrecks in the olden time tell us of much suffering . 
We read about these things , and they are very pitiful . 
It is indeed hard upon a man to find himself a lost stranger , helpless , incomprehensible , and of a mysterious origin , in some obscure corner of the earth . 
He did not know the name of his ship . 
And probably he had not . 
They were driven below into the 'tween deck and battened down from the very start . 
It was a low timber dwelling he would say with wooden beams overhead , like the houses in his coun try , but you went into it down a ladder . 
Besides , one could not tell whether it was morning or evening . 
It seemed always to be night in that place . 
Before that he had been travelling a long , long time on the iron track . 
He gave me to understand that he had on his passage beheld uncounted multitudes of peo ple whole nations all dressed in such clothes as the rich wear . 
Steam machines rolled in at one end and out at the other . 
In the morning they were all led down to the stony shores of an extremely broad muddy river , flowing not between hills but between houses that seemed immense . 
A cold rain fell , the wind blew in his face he was wet through , and his teeth chattered . 
He and the young man from the same valley took each other by the hand . 
They thought they were being taken to Amer ica straight away , but suddenly the steam machine bumped against the side of a thing like a house on the water . 
The walls were smooth and black , and there uprose , growing from the roof as it were , bare trees in the shape of crosses , extremely high . 
That's how it appeared to him then , for he had never seen a ship before . 
This was the ship that was going to swim all the way to America . 
Voices shouted , everything swayed there was a ladder dipping up and down . 
He went up on his hands and knees in mortal fear of falling into the water below , which made a great splashing . 
He got sep arated from his companion , and when he descended into the bottom of that ship his heart seemed to melt suddenly within him . 
They would arrive on market days driv ing in a peasant's cart , and would set up an office in an inn or some other Jew's house . 
There were three of them , of whom one with a long beard looked venerable and they had red cloth collars round their necks and gold lace on their sleeves like Government officials . 
But the American Kaiser would not take every body . 
The American Kaiser engaged him at last at three dollars , he being young and strong . 
However , many able young men backed out , afraid of the great dis tance besides , those only who had some money could be taken . 
His father's house was getting over full . 
Two of his brothers were married and had children . 
He promised to send money home from America by post twice a year . 
Afterwards there seemed to come for him a period of blank ignorance , at any rate as to facts . 
Of these experiences he was unwilling to speak they seemed to have seared into his soul a sombre sort of wonder and indignation . 
Several of them turned out even , but , no doubt , he had fled in sudden alarm at their rough angry tones hailing each other in the darkness . 
A sort of frenzy must have helped him up the steep Norton hill . 
As the day advanced , some children came dashing into school at Norton in such a fright that the schoolmistress went out and spoke indignantly to a 'horrid looking man' on the road . 
He edged away , hanging his head , for a few steps , and then suddenly ran off with ex traordinary fleetness . 
Maybe that in his desperate endeavours to get help , and in his need to get in touch with some one , the poor devil had tried to stop the cart . 
From that moment he is plainly in the toils of his obscure and touching destiny . 
There is no doubt after this of what happened to him . 
Was he ? He would teach him to frighten women . 
Then this tramp stood up si lently before him , one mass of mud and filth from head to foot . 
Smith , alone amongst his stacks with this apparition , in the stormy twilight ringing with the infuriated barking of the dog , felt the dread of an inexplicable strangeness . 
that he made more than one step backwards . 
Then a sudden burst of rapid , senseless speech persuaded him at once that he had to do with an escaped luna tic . 
In fact , that impression never wore off com pletely . 
Smith has not in his heart given up his secret conviction of the man's essential insanity to this very day . 
kept on speaking firmly but gently to it , and re treating all the time into the other yard . 
At last , watching his chance , by a sudden charge he bun dled him headlong into the wood lodge , and in stantly shot the bolt . 
Thereupon he wiped his brow , though the day was cold . 
He had done his duty to the community by shutting up a wander ing and probably dangerous maniac . 
Smith isn't a hard man at all , but he had room in his brain only for that one idea of lunacy . 
He was not imagina tive enough to ask himself whether the man might not be perishing with cold and hunger . 
Meantime , at first , the maniac made a great deal of noise in the lodge . 
He couldn't possibly have connected this troublesome lunatic with the sinking of a ship in Eastbay , of which there had been a rumour in the Darnford market place . 
And I daresay the man inside had been very near to insanity on that night . 
A few months later we could read in the papers the accounts of the bogus 'Emigration Agencies' among the Sclavonian peasantry in the more re mote provinces of Austria . 
The object of these scoundrels was to get hold of the poor ignorant people's homesteads , and they were in league with the local usurers . 
They exported their victims through Hamburg mostly . 
As to the ship , I had watched her out of this very window , reaching close hauled under short canvas into the bay on a dark , threatening afternoon . 
She came to an an chor , correctly by the chart , off the Brenzett Coast guard station . 
In the evening the wind rose . 
At midnight I could hear in my bed the terrific gusts and the sounds of a driving deluge . 
About that time the Coastguardmen thought they saw the lights of a steamer over the anchoring ground . 
, and then had gone out either scathless or damaged , who shall say but had gone out , unknown , unseen , and fatal , to perish mysteriously at sea . 
The wind would have prevented the loudest outcries from reaching the shore there had been evidently no time for sig nals of distress . 
It was death without any sort of fuss . 
The Hamburg ship , filling all at once , cap sized as she sank , and at daylight there was not even the end of a spar to be seen above water . 
Officially , the body of the little girl in the red frock is the first thing that came ashore from that ship . 
Their families ate the birds , and the hen coop was split into firewood with a hatchet . 
might have floated ashore on that hencoop . 
The man himself , even when he learned to speak intelligibly , could tell us very little . 
, and that the darkness , the wind , and the rain took his breath away . 
This looks as if he had been on deck some time during that night . 
He had approached them as a beg gar , it is true , he said but in his country , even if they gave nothing , they spoke gently to beggars . 
The children in his country were not taught to throw stones at those who asked for compassion . 
Smith's strategy overcame him completely . 
The wood lodge presented the horrible aspect of a dun geon . 
What would be done to him next ? . 
No wonder that Amy Foster appeared to his eyes with the aureole of an angel of light . 
The girl had not been able to sleep for thinking of the poor man , and in the morning , before the Smiths were up , she slipped out across the back yard . 
At this he got up slowly from amongst all sorts of rubbish , stiff , hungry , trembling , miserable , and doubtful . 
'Can you eat this ? she asked in her soft and timid voice . 
He must have taken her for a 'gracious lady . 
He devoured ferociously , and tears were falling on the crust . 
Suddenly he dropped the bread , seized her wrist , and im printed a kiss on her hand . 
She was not fright ened . 
Through his forlorn condition she had observed that he was good looking . 
She shut the door and walked back slowly to the kitchen . 
Much later on , she told Mrs. Smith , who shud dered at the bare idea of being touched by that creature . 
Through this act of impulsive pity he was brought back again within the pale of human rela tions with his new surroundings . 
He never forgot it never . 
came over to give his advice , and ended by carrying him off . 
He stood , unsteady on his legs , meek , and caked over in half dried mud , while the two men talked around him in an incomprehensible tongue . 
But Smith was full of mistrust . 
'Mind , sir ! It may be all his cunning , he cried repeatedly in a tone of warning . 
When Mr. Swaffer started the mare , the deplorable being sit ting humbly by his side , through weakness , nearly fell out over the back of the high two wheeled cart . 
Swaffer took him straight home . 
And it is then that I come upon the scene . 
I was called in by the simple process of the old man beckoning to me with his forefinger over the gate of his house as I happened to be driving past . 
I got down , of course . 
'I've got something here , he mumbled , lead ing the way to an outhouse at a little distance from his other farm buildings . 
It was there that I saw him first , in a long low room taken upon the space of that sort of coach house . 
It was bare and whitewashed , with a small square aperture glazed with one cracked , dusty pane at its further end . 
He was almost speechless his quick breathing under the blankets pulled up to his chin , his glittering , restless black eyes reminded me of a wild bird caught in a snare . 
While I was examining him , old Swaffer stood silently by the door , passing the tips of his fingers along his shaven upper lip . 
I gave some directions , promised to send a bottle of medicine , and naturally made some inquiries . 
'That's how I came by him . 
Quite a curiosity , isn't he ? Now tell me , doctor you've been all over the world don't you think that's a bit of a Hindoo we've got hold of here . 
His long black hair scattered over the straw bolster contrasted with the olive pallor of his face . 
It occurred to me he might be a Basque . 
It didn't necessarily follow that he should understand Spanish but I tried him with the few words I know , and also with some French . 
The whispered sounds I caught by bending my ear to his lips puzzled me utterly . 
, coming to see Miss Swaffer , tried their German and Italian on him from the doorway . 
They retreated , just the least bit scared by the flood of passionate speech which , turning on his pallet , he let out at them . 
The village boys climbed up the bank to have a peep through the little square aperture . 
Everybody was wondering what Mr. Swaffer would do with him . 
Swaffer would be called eccentric were he not so much respected . 
He himself would tell you that the Swaffers had owned land between this and Darnford for these three hundred years . 
He must be eighty five to day , but he does not look a bit older than when I first came here . 
He is a great breeder of sheep , and deals extensively in cat tle . 
The calmness of advanced age gives a solemnity to his manner . 
He is clean shaved his lips are thin and sensitive something rigid and monarchal in the set of his features lends a certain elevation to the character of his face . 
He has been known to drive miles in the rain to see a new kind of rose in somebody's garden , or a mon strous cabbage grown by a cottager . 
He loves to hear tell of or to be shown something that he calls 'outlandish . 
Perhaps it was just that outlandish ness of the man which influenced old Swaffer . 
Per haps it was only an inexplicable caprice . 
All I know is that at the end of three weeks I caught sight of Smith's lunatic digging in Swaffer's kitch en garden . 
They had found out he could use a spade . 
His black hair flowed over his shoulders . 
fitting to the leg almost like tights was belted with a broad leathern belt stud ded with little brass discs and had never yet ven tured into the village . 
He won dered what made them so hardhearted and their children so bold . 
Beside the same pal let , kneeling in the early darkness of the short days , he recited aloud the Lord's Prayer before he slept . 
and wore a little steel cross at her waist . 
She had the unmoved countenance of the deaf , spoke very seldom , and her lips , thin like her father's , astonished one sometimes by a myste riously ironic curl . 
These were the people to whom he owed alle giance , and an overwhelming loneliness seemed to fall from the leaden sky of that winter without sun shine . 
All the faces were sad . 
He could talk to no one , and had no hope of ever understanding anybody . 
It was as if these had been the faces of people from the other world dead people he used to tell me years afterwards . 
Upon my word , I wonder he did not go mad . 
He didn't know where he was . 
Somewhere very far from his moun tains somewhere over the water . 
He used to cast stealthy glances at it , and feel comforted . 
There was nothing here the same as in his country ! The earth and the water were differ ent there were no images of the Redeemer by the roadside . 
The very grass was different , and the trees . 
All the trees but the three old Norway pines on the bit of lawn before Swaffer's house , and these reminded him of his country . 
He had been detected once , after dusk , with his forehead against the trunk of one of them , sobbing , and talking to himself . 
They had been like brothers to him at that time , he affirmed . 
Conceive you the kind of an existence overshad owed , oppressed , by the everyday material appear ances , as if by the visions of a nightmare . 
At night , when he could not sleep , he kept on thinking of the girl who gave him the first piece of bread he had eaten in this foreign land . 
She had been neither fierce nor angry , nor frightened . 
I wonder whether the mem ory of her compassion prevented him from cutting his throat . 
But there ! I suppose I am an old sen timentalist , and forget the instinctive love of life which it takes all the strength of an uncommon de spair to overcome . 
He did the work which was given him with an intelligence which surprised old Swaffer . 
He began to pick up words , too , very fast and suddenly , one fine morning in spring , he res cued from an untimely death a grand child of old Swaffer . 
Swaffer's younger daughter is married to Willcox , a solicitor and the Town Clerk of Cole brook . 
Regularly twice a year they come to stay with the old man for a few days . 
But he had straight glancing , quick , far reaching eyes , that only seemed to flinch and lose their amazing power before the immensity of the sea . 
He was barefooted , and looking as out landish as the heart of Swaffer could desire . 
I believe that from that day , too , Swaffer began to pay him reg ular wages . 
I can't follow step by step his development . 
He cut his hair short , was seen in the village and along the road going to and fro to his work like any other man . 
Children ceased to shout after him . 
He became aware of social differences , but re mained for a long time surprised at the bare pov erty of the churches among so much wealth . 
He couldn't understand either why they were kept shut up on week days . 
There was nothing to steal in them . 
And though he wore corduroys at work , and a slop made pepper and salt suit on Sundays , strangers would turn round to look after him on the road . 
His foreignness had a peculiar and indelible stamp . 
At last people be came used to see him . 
But they never became used to him . 
i They i wouldn't in their dinner hour lie flat on their backs on the grass to stare at the sky . 
Neither did they go about the fields screaming dis mal tunes . 
And I should be startled myself . 
His quick , fervent ut terance positively shocked everybody . 
'An excit able devil , they called him . 
, he upset them all by singing a love song of his country . 
On another occasion he tried to show them how to dance . 
But when sud denly he sprang upon a table and continued to dance among the glasses , the landlord interfered . 
He didn't want any 'acrobat tricks in the tap room . 
They laid their hands on him . 
Having had a glass or two , Mr. Swaffer's foreigner tried to expostulate was ejected forcibly got a black eye . 
I believe he felt the hostility of his human sur roundings . 
But he was tough tough in spirit , too , as well as in body . 
Only the memory of the sea frightened him , with that vague terror that is left by a bad dream . 
His home was far away and he did not want now to go to America . 
I had often explained to him that there is no place on earth where true gold can be found lying ready and to be got for the trouble of the picking up . 
But sometimes , cock ing his hat with a little conquering air , he would defy my wisdom . 
He had found his bit of true gold . 
That was Amy Foster's heart which was 'a golden heart , and soft to people's misery , he would say in the accents of overwhelming convic tion . 
he got it for his surname . 
And this is the only trace of him that the succeeding ages may find in the marriage register of the parish . 
There it stands Yanko Goorall in the rector's handwrit ing . 
His courtship had lasted some time ever since he got his precarious footing in the community . 
It began by his buying for Amy Foster a green satin ribbon in Darnford . 
This was what you did in his country . 
You bought a ribbon at a Jew's stall on a fair day . 
I don't suppose the girl knew what to do with it , but he seemed to think that his honoura ble intentions could not be mistaken . 
Every old woman in the village was up in arms . 
Smith , coming upon him near the farm , promised to break his head for him if he found him about again . 
But he twisted his little black moustache with such a bellicose air and rolled such big , black fierce eyes at Smith that this promise came to noth ing . 
Smith , however , told the girl that she must be mad to take up with a man who was surely wrong in his head . 
Mrs. Smith called her a shameless hussy . 
She said nothing at all to anybody , and went on her way as if she had been deaf . 
She and I alone all in the land , I fancy , could see his very real beauty . 
He was very good looking , and most graceful in his bearing , with that something wild as of a woodland creature in his aspect . 
Her moth er moaned over her dismally whenever the girl came to see her on her day out . 
The father was surly , but pretended not to know and Mrs. Finn once told her plainly that 'this man , my dear , will do you some harm some day yet . 
And so it went on . 
I wonder whether he saw how plain she was . 
Perhaps among types so different from what he had ever seen , he had not the power to judge or perhaps he was seduced by the divine quality of her pity . 
Yanko was in great trouble meantime . 
In his country you get an old man for an ambassador in marriage affairs . 
He did not know how to pro ceed . 
he took off his hat to the father and de clared himself humbly . 
'I daresay she's fool enough to marry you , was all Foster said . 
The Fosters , of course , didn't like to lose the wages the girl earned Amy used to give all her money to her mother . 
But there was in Foster a very genuine aversion to that match . 
He con tended that the fellow was very good with sheep , but was not fit for any girl to marry . 
For one thing , he used to go along the hedges muttering to himself like a dam' fool and then , these foreign ers behave very queerly to women sometimes . 
And perhaps he would want to carry her off somewhere or run off himself . 
He preached it to his daughter that the fellow might ill use her in some way . 
It was , they said in the village , as if the man had done something to her . 
It was quite an excitement , and the two went on 'walking out' together in the face of opposition . 
I don't know whether old Swaffer ever under stood how much he was regarded in the light of a father by his foreign retainer . 
Anyway the rela tion was curiously feudal . 
it was to obtain their permission to marry . 
Swaffer heard him unmoved , dismissed him by a nod , and then shouted the intelligence into Miss Swaffer's best ear . 
She showed no surprise , and only remarked grimly , in a veiled blank voice , 'He certainly won't get any other girl to marry him . 
and something like an acre of ground had made it over to him in absolute property . 
Willcox expe dited the deed , and I remember him telling me he had a great pleasure in making it ready . 
It re cited 'In consideration of saving the life of my beloved grandchild , Bertha Willcox . 
Of course , after that no power on earth could prevent them from getting married . 
People saw her go ing out to meet him in the evening . 
When the boy was born , he got elevated at the 'Coach and Horses , essayed again a song and a dance , and was again ejected . 
People expressed their commiseration for a woman married to that Jack in the box . 
to whom he could sing and talk in the language of his country , and show how to dance by and by . 
To me he appeared to have grown less springy of step , heavier in body , less keen of eye . 
Imagination , no doubt but it seems to me now as if the net of fate had been drawn closer round him already . 
One day I met him on the footpath over the Talfourd Hill . 
He told me that 'women were fun ny . 
I had heard already of domestic differences . 
People were saying that Amy Foster was begin ning to find out what sort of man she had married . 
He looked upon the sea with indifferent , unseeing eyes . 
His wife had snatched the child out of his arms one day as he sat on the doorstep crooning to it a song such as the mothers sing to babies in his mountains . 
She seemed to think he was doing it some harm . 
And she had ob jected to him praying aloud in the evening . 
Why his wife should dislike the idea he couldn't tell . 
But that would pass , he said . 
Physiologically , now , he said , turning away abruptly , it was possible . 
Then went on At all events , the next time I saw him he was ill lung trouble . 
He was tough , but I daresay he was not acclimatised as well as I had supposed . 
It was a bad winter and , of course , these mountain eers do get fits of home sickness and a state of de pression would make him vulnerable . 
He was lying half dressed on a couch downstairs . 
A table covered with a dark oilcloth took up all the middle of the little room . 
There was a wicker cradle on the floor , a kettle spouting steam on the hob , and some child's linen lay drying on the fender . 
The room was warm , but the door opens right into the garden , as you noticed perhaps . 
He was very feverish , and kept on muttering to himself . 
She sat on a chair and looked at him fixedly across the table with her brown , blurred eyes . 
'Why don't you have him upstairs ? I asked . 
With a start and a confused stammer she said , 'Oh ! ah ! I couldn't sit with him upstairs , Sir . 
I gave her certain directions and going out side , I said again that he ought to be in bed up stairs . 
He keeps on saying something I don't know what . 
With the memory of all the talk against the man that had been dinned into her ears , I looked at her narrowly . 
But I saw she was uneasy . 
'What's the matter with him ? she asked in a sort of vacant trepidation . 
'He doesn't look very ill . 
I never did see anybody look like this be fore . 
'Do you think , I asked indignantly , 'he is shamming ? 'I can't help it , sir , she said stolidly . 
And suddenly she clapped her hands and looked right and left . 
I am so fright ened . 
He wanted me just now to give him the baby . 
I can't understand what he says to it . 
'Can't you ask a neighbour to come in to night ? I asked . 
'Please , sir , nobody seems to care to come , she muttered , dully resigned all at once . 
I impressed upon her the necessity of the greatest care , and then had to go . 
There was a good deal of sickness that winter . 
'Oh , I hope he won't talk ! she exclaimed softly just as I was go ing away . 
I don't know how it is I did not see but I didn't . 
And yet , turning in my trap , I saw her lingering before the door , very still , and as if med itating a flight up the miry road . 
Towards the night his fever increased . 
He tossed , moaned , and now and then muttered a complaint . 
She had drawn the wicker cradle close to her feet . 
There was nothing in her now but the maternal instinct and that unaccountable fear . 
Suddenly coming to himself , parched , he de manded a drink of water . 
She had not understood , though he may have thought he was speaking in English . 
He spoke to her , and his passion ate remonstrances only increased her fear of that strange man . 
I believe he spoke to her for a long time , entreating , wondering , pleading , ordering , I suppose . 
She says she bore it as long as she could . 
And then a gust of rage came over him . 
He sat up and called out terribly one word some word . 
Then he got up as though he hadn't been ill at all , she says . 
She heard him call twice after her down the road in a terrible voice and fled . 
And it was I who found him lying face down and his body in a puddle , just outside the little wicket gate . 
I had been called out that night to an urgent case in the village , and on my way home at day break passed by the cottage . 
My man helped me to carry him in . 
We laid him on the couch . 
The lamp smoked , the fire was out , the chill of the stormy night oozed from the cheer less yellow paper on the wall . 
'Amy ! I called aloud , and my voice seemed to lose itself in the emptiness of this tiny house as if I had cried in a desert . 
'Gone ! he said dis tinctly . 
'I had only asked for water only for a little water . 
I covered him up and stood waiting in silence , catching a painfully gasped word now and then . 
They were no longer in his own language . 
The fever had left him , taking with it the heat of life . 
And with his panting breast and lustrous eyes he reminded me again of a wild creature under the net of a bird caught in a snare . 
She had left him sick helpless thirsty . 
The spear of the hunter had entered his very soul . 
'Why ? he cried in the pen etrating and indignant voice of a man calling to a responsible Maker . 
A gust of wind and a swish of rain answered . 
And as I turned away to shut the door he pro nounced the word 'Merciful ! and expired . 
Eventually I certified heart failure as the im mediate cause of death . 
His heart must have in deed failed him , or else he might have stood this night of storm and exposure , too . 
I closed his eyes and drove away . 
Not very far from the cottage I met Foster walking sturdily between the dripping hedges with his collie at his heels . 
'Do you know where your daughter is ? I asked . 
'Don't I ! he cried . 
'I am going to talk to him a bit . 
Frightening a poor woman like this . 
'He won't frighten her any more , I said . 
He struck with his stick at the mud . 
Then , after thinking deeply for a while 'I don't know that it isn't for the best . 
And she says nothing at all now . 
Not a word of him . 
She lives in the cottage and works for Miss Swaffer . 
She is Amy Foster for everybody , and the child is 'Amy Foster's boy . 
She calls him Johnny which means Little John . 
It is impossible to say whether this name re calls anything to her . 
Does she ever think of the past ? I have seen her hanging over the boy's cot in a very passion of maternal tenderness . 
And looking at him I seemed to see again the other one the father , cast out mysteriously by the sea to perish in the supreme disaster of loneliness and despair . 
