Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE CROSSING BY WINSTON CHURCHILL CONTENTS BOOK I. THE BORDERLAND CHAPTER I. THE BLUE WALL II . 
WARS AND RUMORS OF WARS III . 
TEMPLE BOW V. CRAM'S HELL VI . 
MAN PROPOSES , BUT GOD DISPOSES VII . 
IN SIGHT OF THE BLUE WALL ONCE MORE VIII . 
ON THE WILDERNESS TRAIL X. HARRODSTOWN XI . 
HOW THE KASKASKIANS WERE MADE CITIZENS XV . 
DAVY GOES TO CAHOKIA XVII . 
AN' YE HAD BEEN WHERE I HAD BEEN'' XIX . 
THE HAIR BUYER TRAPPED XX . 
THE CAMPAIGN ENDS BOOK II . 
FLOTSAM AND JETSAM I. IN THE CABIN II . 
THE BEGGARS ARE COME TO TOWN'' III . 
WE GO TO DANVILLE IV . 
I CROSS THE MOUNTAINS ONCE MORE V. I MEET AN OLD BEDFELLOW VI . 
I MEET A HERO VIII . 
CHERCHEZ LA FEMME'' X. THE KEEL BOAT XI . 
LOUISIANA I. THE RIGHTS OF MAN II . 
THE HOUSE ABOVE THE FALLS III . 
OF A SUDDEN RESOLUTION V. THE HOUSE OF THE HONEYCOMBED TILES VI . 
THE DISPOSAL OF THE SIEUR DE ST . 
MONSIEUR LE BARON X. THE SCOURGE XI . 
IN THE MIDST OF LIFE'' XII . 
VISIONS , AND AN AWAKENING XIII . 
TO UNPATHED WATERS , UNDREAMED SHORES'' XV . 
The cabin reeked of corn pone and bacon , and the odor of pelts . 
It had two shakedowns , on one of which I slept under a bearskin . 
A rough stone chimney was reared outside , and the fireplace was as long as my father was tall . 
There was a crane in it , and a bake kettle and over it great buckhorns held my father's rifle when it was not in use . 
These once belonged to my mother . 
Among them was a gown of silk , of a fine , faded pattern , over which I was wont to speculate . 
The women at the Cross Roads , twelve miles away , were dressed in coarse butternut wool and huge sunbonnets . 
But when I questioned my father on these matters he would give me no answers . 
My father was how shall I say what he was ? To this day I can only surmise many things of him . 
He was a Scotchman born , and I know now that he had a slight Scotch accent . 
At the time of which I write , my early childhood , he was a frontiersman and hunter . 
I can see him now , with his hunting shirt and leggings and moccasins his powder horn , engraved with wondrous scenes his bullet pouch and tomahawk and hunting knife . 
He was a tall , lean man with a strange , sad face . 
And he talked little save when he drank too many horns , '' as they were called in that country . 
These lapses of my father's were a perpetual source of wonder to me , and , I must say , of delight . 
They occurred only when a passing traveller who hit his fancy chanced that way , or , what was almost as rare , a neighbor . 
Many a winter night I have lain awake under the skins , listening to a flow of language that held me spellbound , though I understood scarce a word of it . 
Virtuous and vicious every man must be , Few in the extreme , but all in a degree . 
'' The chance neighbor or traveller was no less struck with wonder . 
Even as a child I knew this , and resented it . 
He had brought me up in solitude , and I was old for my age , learned in some things far beyond my years , and ignorant of others I should have known . 
I loved the man passionately . 
In the long winter evenings , when the howl of wolves and painters'' rose as the wind lulled , he taught me to read from the Bible and the Pilgrim's Progress . 
'' I can see his long , slim fingers on the page . 
They seemed but ill fitted for the life he led . 
As I grew older I went with him into the mountains , often on his back and spent the nights in open camp with my little moccasins drying at the blaze . 
So I learned to skin a bear , and fleece off the fat for oil with my hunting knife and cure a deerskin and follow a trail . 
At seven I even shot the long rifle , with a rest . 
I learned to endure cold and hunger and fatigue and to walk in silence over the mountains , my father never saying a word for days at a spell . 
And often , when he opened his mouth , it would be to recite a verse of Pope's in a way that moved me strangely . 
For a poem is not a poem unless it be well spoken . 
In the hot days of summer , over against the dark forest the bright green of our little patch of Indian corn rippled in the wind . 
And towards night I would often sit watching the deep blue of the mountain wall and dream of the mysteries of the land that lay beyond . 
And by chance , one evening as I sat thus , my father reading in the twilight , a man stood before us . 
So silently had he come up the path leading from the brook that we had not heard him . 
Presently my father looked up from his book , but did not rise . 
As for me , I had been staring for some time in astonishment , for he was a better looking man than I had ever seen . 
He wore a deerskin hunting shirt dyed black , but , in place of a coonskin cap with the tail hanging down , a hat . 
His long rifle rested on the ground , and he held a roan horse by the bridle . 
Howdy , neighbor ? '' said he . 
I recall a fear that my father would not fancy him . 
In such cases he would give a stranger food , and leave him to himself . 
My father's whims were past understanding . 
Good evening , '' said he . 
The visitor looked a little surprised , as I had seen many do , at my father's accent . 
Neighbor , '' said he , kin you keep me over night ? '' Come in , '' said my father . 
We sat down to our supper of corn and beans and venison , of all of which our guest ate sparingly . 
He , too , was a silent man , and scarcely a word was spoken during the meal . 
But once , when my father said something about Indians , the eyes grew hard as flint . 
It was then I remarked , with a boy's wonder , that despite his dark hair he had yellow eyebrows . 
After supper the two men sat on the log step , while I set about the task of skinning the deer my father had shot that day . 
Presently I felt a heavy hand on my shoulder . 
What's your name , lad ? '' he said . 
Davy , I'll larn ye a trick worth a little time , '' said he , whipping out a knife . 
In a trice the red carcass hung between the forked stakes , while I stood with my mouth open . 
He turned to me and laughed gently . 
Some day you'll cross the mountains and skin twenty of an evening , '' he said . 
Ye'll make a woodsman sure . 
You've got the eye , and the hand . 
'' This little piece of praise from him made me hot all over . 
Game rare ? '' said he to my father . 
None sae good , now , '' said my father . 
My cabin's on Beaver Creek some forty mile above , and game's going there , too . 
'' Settlements , '' said my father . 
'' And well named , '' said the stranger . 
But a brave country , '' said my father , and all tramped down with game . 
I hear that Daniel Boone and others have gone into it and come back with marvellous tales . 
They tell me Boone was there alone three months . 
He's saething of a man . 
D'ye ken him ? '' The ruddy face of the stranger grew ruddier still . 
My name's Boone , '' he said . 
What ! '' cried my father , it wouldn't be Daniel ? '' You've guessed it , I reckon . 
'' My father rose without a word , went into the cabin , and immediately reappeared with a flask and a couple of gourds , one of which he handed to our visitor . 
Tell me aboot it , '' said he . 
That was the fairy tale of my childhood . 
Far into the night I lay on the dewy grass listening to Mr. Boone's talk . 
It did not at first flow in a steady stream , for he was not a garrulous man , but my father's questions presently fired his enthusiasm . 
I recall but little of it , being so small a lad , but I crept closer and closer until I could touch this superior being who had been beyond the Wall . 
Marco Polo was no greater wonder to the Venetians than Boone to me . 
He spoke of leaving wife and children , and setting out for the Unknown with other woodsmen . 
And as he talked he lost himself in the tale of it , and the very quality of his voice changed . 
And , simply , he told how , when the others had left him , he stayed for three months roaming the hills alone with Nature herself . 
But did you no' meet the Indians ? '' asked my father . 
I seed one fishing on a log once , '' said our visitor , laughing , but he fell into the water . 
I reckon he was drowned . 
'' My father nodded comprehendingly , even admiringly . 
And again ! '' said he . 
Wal , '' said Mr. Boone , we fell in with a war party of Shawnees going back to their lands north of the great river . 
The critters took away all we had . 
It was hard , '' he added reflectively I had staked my fortune on the venter , and we'd got enough skins to make us rich . 
But , neighbor , there is land enough for you and me , as black and rich as Canaan . 
'' The Lord is my shepherd , '' said my father , lapsing into verse . 
The Lord is my shepherd . 
He leadeth me into green pastures , and beside still waters . 
'' For a time they were silent , each wrapped in his own thought , while the crickets chirped and the frogs sang . 
From the distant forest came the mournful hoot of an owl . 
And you are going back ? '' asked my father , presently . 
Aye , that I am . 
There are many families on the Yadkin below going , too . 
And you , neighbor , you might come with us . 
Davy is the boy that would thrive in that country . 
'' My father did not answer . 
The sun was just flooding the slopes when our guest arose to leave , and my father bade him God speed with a heartiness that was rare to him . 
But , to my bitter regret , neither spoke of my father's going . 
Being a man of understanding , Mr. Boone knew it were little use to press . 
He patted me on the head . 
You're a wise lad , Davy , '' said he . 
I hope we shall meet again . 
'' He mounted his roan and rode away down the slope , waving his hand to us . 
And it was with a heavy heart that I went to feed our white mare , whinnying for food in the lean to . 
CHAPTER II WARS AND RUMORS OF WARS And so our life went on the same , but yet not the same . 
For I had the Land of Promise to dream of , and as I went about my tasks I conjured up in my mind pictures of its beauty . 
You will forgive a backwoods boy , self centred , for lack of wider interest , and with a little imagination . 
But at the Cross Roads , too , they were talking of Kaintuckee . 
For so the Land was called , the Dark and Bloody Ground . 
The next year came a war on the Frontier , waged by Lord Dunmore , Governor of Virginia . 
Of this likewise I heard at the Cross Roads , though few from our part seemed to have gone to it . 
But in the autumn came tidings of a great battle far to the north , and of the Indians suing for peace . 
The next year came more tidings of a sort I did not understand . 
I remember once bringing back from the Cross Roads a crumpled newspaper , which my father read again and again , and then folded up and put in his pocket . 
He said nothing to me of these things . 
I recall her dimly , a slattern creature in a loose gown and bare feet , wife of the storekeeper and wagoner , with a swarm of urchins about her . 
They were all very natural to me thus . 
And I remember a battle with one of these urchins in the briers , an affair which did not add to the love of their family for ours . 
There was no money in that country , and the store took our pelts in exchange for what we needed from civilization . 
Once a month would I load these pelts on the white mare , and make the journey by the path down the creek . 
At times I met other settlers there , some of them not long from Ireland , with the brogue still in their mouths . 
And again , I saw the wagoner with his great canvas covered wagon standing at the door , ready to start for the town sixty miles away . 
'Twas he brought the news of this latest war . 
One day I was surprised to see the wagoner riding up the path to our cabin , crying out for my father , for he was a violent man . 
And a violent scene followed . 
They remained for a long time within the house , and when they came out the wagoner's face was red with rage . 
My father , too , was angry , but no more talkative than usual . 
Ye say ye'll not help the Congress ? '' shouted the wagoner . 
I'll not , '' said my father . 
Ye'll live to rue this day , Alec Trimble , '' cried the man . 
Ye may think ye're too fine for the likes of us , but there's them in the settlement that knows about ye . 
'' With that he flung himself on his horse , and rode away . 
But the next time I went to the Cross Roads the woman drove me away with curses , and called me an aristocrat . 
Wearily I tramped back the dozen miles up the creek , beside the mare , carrying my pelts with me stumbling on the stones , and scratched by the dry briers . 
For it was autumn , the woods all red and yellow against the green of the pines . 
I sat down beside the old beaver dam to gather courage to tell my father . 
But he only smiled bitterly when he heard it . 
Nor would he tell me what the word ARISTOCRAT meant . 
That winter we spent without bacon , and our salt gave out at Christmas . 
It was at this season , if I remember rightly , that we had another visitor . 
He arrived about nightfall one gray day , his horse jaded and cut , and he was dressed all in wool , with a great coat wrapped about him , and high boots . 
This made me stare at him . 
When my father drew back the bolt of the door he , too , stared and fell back a step . 
Come in , '' said he . 
D'ye ken me , Alec ? '' said the man . 
He was a tall , spare man like my father , a Scotchman , but his hair was in a cue . 
Come in , Duncan , '' said my father , quietly . 
Davy , run out for wood . 
'' Loath as I was to go , I obeyed . 
We'll have two thousand Highlanders and more to meet the fleet . 
and no help the King ? '' He brought his fist down on the pine boards . 
Ye did no help the King greatly at Culloden , Duncan , '' said my father , dryly . 
Our visitor did not answer at once . 
The Yankee Rebels 'll no help the House of Stuart , '' said he , presently . 
And Hanover's coom to stay . 
Are ye , too , a Rebel , Alec Ritchie ? '' I remember wondering why he said RITCHIE . 
I'll no take a hand in this fight , '' answered my father . 
And that was the end of it . 
The man left with scant ceremony , I guiding him down the creek to the main trail . 
He did not open his mouth until I parted with him . 
Puir Davy , '' said he , and rode away in the night , for the moon shone through the clouds . 
I remember these things , I suppose , because I had nothing else to think about . 
And the names stuck in my memory , intensified by later events , until I began to write a diary . 
And now I come to my travels . 
As the spring drew on I had had a feeling that we could not live thus forever , with no market for our pelts . 
And one day my father said to me abruptly Davy , we'll be travelling . 
'' Where ? '' I asked . 
Ye'll ken soon enough , '' said he . 
We'll go at crack o' day . 
'' We went away in the wild dawn , leaving the cabin desolate . 
We loaded the white mare with the pelts , and my father wore a woollen suit like that of our Scotch visitor , which I had never seen before . 
He had clubbed his hair . 
But , strangest of all , he carried in a small parcel the silk gown that had been my mother's . 
We had scant other baggage . 
This I know now was the Catawba . 
My memories of that ride are as misty as the spring weather in the mountains . 
But presently the country began to open up into broad fields , some of these abandoned to pines . 
And at last , splashing through the stiff red clay that was up to the mare's fetlocks , we came to a place called Charlotte Town . 
He , too , was talking of war . 
The Cherokees had risen on the western border . 
He was telling of the massacre of a settlement , in no mild language . 
Sirs , '' he cried , the British have stirred the redskins to this . 
Stuart and Cameron go unpunished ? '' My father got up from the corner where he sat , and stood beside the man . 
I ken Alec Cameron , '' said he . 
The man looked at him with amazement . 
Ay ? '' said he , I shouldn't think you'd own it . 
Damn him , '' he cried , if we catch him we'll skin him alive . 
'' I ken Cameron , '' my father repeated , and I'll gang with you to skin him alive . 
'' The man seized his hand and wrung it . 
But first I must be in Charlestown , '' said my father . 
The next morning we sold our pelts . 
And though the mare was tired , we pushed southward , I behind the saddle . 
I had much to think about , wondering what was to become of me while my father went to skin Cameron . 
I had not the least doubt that he would do it . 
The world is a story book to a lad of nine , and the thought of Charlestown filled me with a delight unspeakable . 
Perchance he would leave me in Charlestown . 
At nightfall we came into a settlement called the Waxhaws . 
And there being no tavern there , and the mare being very jaded and the roads heavy , we cast about for a place to sleep . 
The sunlight slanting over the pine forest glistened on the pools in the wet fields . 
My father hailed him , and he came running towards us , still shouting , and vaulted the rails . 
He stood before us , eying me with a most mischievous look in his blue eyes , and dabbling in the red mud with his toes . 
I remember I thought him a queer looking boy . 
He was lanky , and he had a very long face under his tousled hair . 
My father asked him where he could spend the night . 
Wal , '' said the boy , I reckon Uncle Crawford might take you in . 
'' He ran ahead , still swinging the pail . 
And we , following , came at length to a comfortable looking farmhouse . 
As we stopped at the doorway a stout , motherly woman filled it . 
She held her knitting in her hand . 
You Andy ! '' she cried , '' have you fetched the milk ? '' Andy tried to look repentant . 
I declare I'll tan you , '' said the lady . 
What rascality have you been in ? '' I fetched home visitors , Ma , '' said Andy . 
Visitors ! '' cried the lady . 
What 'll your Uncle Crawford say ? And she looked at us smiling , but with no great hostility . 
Pardon me , Madam , '' said my father , if we seem to intrude . 
But my mare is tired , and we have nowhere to stay . 
'' Uncle Crawford did take us in . 
He was a man of substance in that country , a north of Ireland man by birth , if I remember right . 
I went to bed with the red headed boy , whose name was Andy Jackson . 
I remember that his mother came into our little room under the eaves and made Andy say his prayers , and me after him . 
But when she was gone out , Andy stumped his toe getting into bed in the dark and swore with a brilliancy and vehemence that astonished me . 
It was some hours before we went to sleep , he plying me with questions about my life , which seemed to interest him greatly , and I returning in kind . 
My Pa's dead , '' said Andy . 
He came from a part of Ireland where they are all weavers . 
We're kinder poor relations here . 
Aunt Crawford's sick , and Ma keeps house . 
But Uncle Crawford's good , an' lets me go to Charlotte Town with him sometimes . 
'' I recall that he also boasted some about his big brothers , who were away just then . 
Andy was up betimes in the morning , to see us start . 
But we didn't start , because Mr. Crawford insisted that the white mare should have a half day's rest . 
Andy , being hustled off unwillingly to the Old Field'' school , made me go with him . 
He was a very headstrong boy . 
I was very anxious to see a school . 
This one was only a log house in a poor , piny place , with a rabble of boys and girls romping at the door . 
But when they saw us they stopped . 
Andy jumped into the air , let out a war whoop , and flung himself into the midst , scattering them right and left , and knocking one boy over and over . 
I'm Billy Buck ! '' he cried . 
I'm a hull regiment o' Rangers . 
Let th' Cherokees mind me ! '' Way for Sandy Andy ! '' cried the boys . 
Where'd you get the new boy , Sandy ? '' His name's Davy , '' said Andy , and his Pa's goin' to fight the Cherokees . 
He kin lick tarnation out'n any o' you . 
'' Meanwhile I held back , never having been thrown with so many of my own kind . 
He's shot painters and b'ars , '' said Andy . 
Kin you lick him , Smally ? I reckon not . 
'' Now I had not come to the school for fighting . 
Fortunately for me , Smally held back also . 
But he tried skilful tactics . 
He kin throw you , Sandy . 
'' Andy faced me in an instant . 
Kin you ? '' said he . 
We rolled and rolled and rolled in the mud , until we both lost our breath , and even Andy stopped swearing , for want of it . 
After a while the boys were silent , and the thing became grim earnest . 
At length , by some accident rather than my own strength , both his shoulders touched the ground . 
But he was on his feet in an instant and at me again like a wildcat . 
Andy won't stay throwed , '' shouted a boy . 
And before I knew it he had my shoulders down in a puddle . 
But that was the end of me , and the beginning of Smally . 
Andy left me instantly , not without an intimation that he would come back , and proceeded to cover Smally with red clay and blood . 
However , in the midst of this turmoil the schoolmaster arrived , haled both into the schoolhouse , held court , and flogged Andrew with considerable gusto . 
He pronounced these words afterwards , with great solemnity Andrew Jackson , if I catch ye fightin' once more , I'll be afther givin' ye lave to lave the school . 
'' I parted from Andy at noon with real regret . 
He was the first boy with whom I had ever had any intimacy . 
And I admired him chiefly , I fear , for his fluent use of profanity and his fighting qualities . 
He was a merry lad , with a wondrous quick temper but a good heart . 
And he seemed sorry to say good by . 
He filled my pockets with June apples unripe , by the way and told me to remember him when I got TILL Charlestown . 
I remembered him much longer than that , and usually with a shock of surprise . 
Once in a while I caught glimpses of great red houses , with stately pillars , among the trees . 
They put me in mind of the palaces in Bunyan , their windows all golden in the morning sun and as we jogged ahead , I pondered on the delights within them . 
He was willing to talk on such subjects . 
But on others , and especially our errand to Charlestown , he would say nothing . 
And I knew better than to press him . 
We caught up with them , the wagoners cracking their whips and swearing at the straining horses . 
And lo ! in front of the wagons was an army , at least my boyish mind magnified it to such . 
Men clad in homespun , perspiring and spattered with mud , were straggling along the road by fours , laughing and joking together . 
The officers rode , and many of these had blue coats and buff waistcoats , some the worse for wear . 
My father was pushing the white mare into the ditch to ride by , when one hailed him . 
'' Good , '' said the other . 
And then , Where are you from ? '' Upper Yadkin , '' answered my father . 
And you ? '' The officer , who was a young man , looked surprised . 
But then he laughed pleasantly . 
We're North Carolina troops , going to join Lee in Charlestown , '' said he . 
The British are sending a fleet and regiments against it . 
'' Oh , aye , '' said my father , and would have passed on . 
But he was made to go before the Colonel , who plied him with many questions . 
Then he gave us a paper and dismissed us . 
We pursued our journey through the heat that shimmered up from the road , pausing now and again in the shade of a wayside tree . 
At times I thought I could bear the sun no longer . 
And then a wind burst out of the east with a high mournful note , as from a great flute afar , filling the air with leaves and branches of trees . 
But it bore , too , a savor that was new to me , a salt savor , deep and fresh , that I drew down into my lungs . 
And I knew that we were near the ocean . 
Then came the rain , in great billows , as though the ocean itself were upon us . 
The next day we crossed a ferry on the Ashley River , and rode down the sand of Charlestown neck . 
Something lay heavy on his mind . 
For I had grown to know his moods by a sort of silent understanding . 
And when the roofs and spires of the town shone over the foliage in the afternoon sun , I felt him give a great sigh that was like a sob . 
But before long we came to a barricade fixed across the street , and then to another . 
And presently , in an open space near a large building , was a company of soldiers at drill . 
It did not strike me as strange then that my father asked his way of no man , but went to a little ordinary in a humbler part of the town . 
After a modest meal in a corner of the public room , we went out for a stroll . 
And nearer , greatest of all delights to me , riding on the swell was a fleet of ships . 
My father gazed at them long and silently , his palm over his eyes . 
Men o' war from the old country , lad , '' he said after a while . 
'' And why are they here ? '' I asked . 
They've come to fight , '' said he , and take the town again for the King . 
'' It was twilight when we turned to go , and then I saw that many of the warehouses along the wharves were heaps of ruins . 
My father said this was that the town might be the better defended . 
We bent our way towards one of the sandy streets where the great houses were . 
And to my surprise we turned in at a gate , and up a path leading to the high steps of one of these . 
Under the high portico the door was open , but the house within was dark . 
My father paused , and the hand he held to mine trembled . 
Then he stepped across the threshold , and raising the big polished knocker that hung on the panel , let it drop . 
The sound reverberated through the house , and then stillness . 
And then , from within , a shuffling sound , and an old negro came to the door . 
For an instant he stood staring through the dusk , and broke into a cry . 
Marse Alec ! '' he said . 
Is your master at home ? '' said my father . 
Without another word he led us through a deep hall , and out into a gallery above the trees of a back garden , where a gentleman sat smoking a long pipe . 
The old negro stopped in front of him . 
Marse John , '' said he , his voice shaking , heah's Marse Alec done come back . 
'' The gentleman got to his feet with a start . 
His pipe fell to the floor , and the ashes scattered on the boards and lay glowing there . 
Alec ! '' he cried , peering into my father's face , Alec ! You're not dead . 
'' John , '' said my father , can we talk here ? '' Good God ! '' said the gentleman , you're just the same . 
To think of it to think of it ! Breed , a light in the drawing room . 
'' There was no word spoken while the negro was gone , and the time seemed very long . 
But at length he returned , a silver candlestick in each hand . 
Careful , '' cried the gentleman , petulantly , you'll drop them . 
'' He led the way into the house , and through the hall to a massive door of mahogany with a silver door knob . 
The grandeur of the place awed me , and well it might . 
Boy like , I was absorbed in this . 
Our little mountain cabin would almost have gone into this one room . 
The candles threw their flickering rays upward until they danced on the high ceiling . 
Marvel of marvels , in the oval left clear by the heavy , rounded cornice was a picture . 
The negro set down the candles on the marble top of a table . 
But the air of the room was heavy and close , and the gentleman went to a window and flung it open . 
It came down instantly with a crash , so that the panes rattled again . 
Curse these Rebels , '' he shouted , they've taken our window weights to make bullets . 
'' Calling to the negro to pry open the window with a walking stick , he threw himself into a big , upholstered chair . 
'Twas then I remarked the splendor of his clothes , which were silk . 
And he wore a waistcoat all sewed with flowers . 
With a boy's intuition , I began to dislike him intensely . 
Damn the Rebels ! '' he began . 
They've driven his Lordship away . 
I hope his Majesty will hang every mother's son of 'em . 
All pleasure of life is gone , and they've folly enough to think they can resist the fleet . 
And the worst of it is , '' cried he , the worst of it is , I'm forced to smirk to them , and give good gold to their government . 
'' Seeing that my father did not answer , he asked Have you joined the Highlanders ? You were always for fighting . 
'' I'm to be at Cherokee Ford on the twentieth , '' said my father . 
We're to scalp the redskins and Cameron , though 'tis not known . 
'' Cameron ! '' shrieked the gentleman . 
But that's the other side , man ! Against his Majesty ? '' One side or t'other , '' said my father , 'tis all one against Alec Cameron . 
'' The gentleman looked at my father with something like terror in his eyes . 
You'll never forgive Cameron , '' he said . 
I'll no forgive anybody who does me a wrong , '' said my father . 
And where have you been all these years , Alec ? '' he asked presently . 
Since you went off with '' I've been in the mountains , leading a pure life , '' said my father . 
And we'll speak of nothing , if you please , that's gone by . 
'' And what will you have me do ? '' said the gentleman , helplessly . 
Little enough , '' said my father . 
Keep the lad till I come again . 
He'll no trouble you greatly . 
Davy , this is Mr. Temple . 
You're to stay with him till I come again . 
'' Come here , lad , '' said the gentleman , and he peered into my face . 
You'll not resemble your mother . 
'' He'll resemble no one , '' said my father , shortly . 
Keep this till I come again . 
'' And he gave me the parcel made of my mother's gown . 
Then he lifted me in his strong arms and kissed me , and strode out of the house . 
We listened in silence as he went down the steps , and until his footsteps died away on the path . 
Then the gentleman rose and pulled a cord hastily . 
Put the lad to bed , Breed , '' said he . 
Whah , suh ? '' Oh , anywhere , '' said the master . 
I'll be better able to talk to you in the morning , David , '' said he . 
I followed the old servant up the great stairs , gulping down a sob that would rise , and clutching my mother's gown tight under my arm . 
Had my father left me alone in our cabin for a fortnight , I should not have minded . 
But here , in this strange house , amid such strange surroundings , I was heartbroken . 
The old negro was very kind . 
He led me into a little bedroom , and placing the candle on a polished dresser , he regarded me with sympathy . 
So you're Miss Lizbeth's boy , '' said he . 
An' Marse Alec rough an' hard es though he been bo'n in de woods . 
Honey , ol' Breed'll tek care ob you . 
I'll git you one o' dem night rails Marse Nick has , and some ob his'n close in de mawnin' . 
'' These things I remember , and likewise sobbing myself to sleep in the four poster . 
Often since I have wished that I had questioned Breed of many things on which I had no curiosity then , for he was my chief companion in the weeks that followed . 
He awoke me bright and early the next day Heah's some close o' Marse Nick's you kin wear , honey , '' he said . 
Who is Master Nick ? '' I asked . 
Marse Nick Temple , Marsa's son . 
He's 'bout you size , but he ain' no mo' laik you den a Jack rabbit's laik an' owl . 
Dey ain' none laik Marse Nick fo' gittin' into trouble and gittin' out agin . 
'' Where is he now ? '' I asked . 
He at Temple Bow , on de Ashley Ribber . 
'' His what ? '' De place whah he lib at , in de country . 
He pointed across the dense foliage of the garden to a strip of water gleaming in the morning sun beyond . 
See dat boat ? '' said the negro . 
Sometime de Marse he tek ar ride in dat boat at night . 
Sometime gentlemen comes heah in a pow'ful hurry to git away , out'n de harbor whah de English is at . 
'' By that time I was dressed , and marvellously uncomfortable in Master Nick's clothes . 
But as I was going out of the door , Breed hailed me . 
Marse Dave , '' it was the first time I had been called that , Marse Dave , you ain't gwineter tell ? '' Tell what ? '' I asked . 
Bout'n de boat , and Marsa agwine away nights . 
'' No , '' said I , indignantly . 
I knowed you wahn't , '' said Breed . 
You don' look as if you'd tell anything . 
'' We found the master pacing the lower gallery . 
At first he barely glanced at me , and nodded . 
After a while he stopped , and began to put to me many questions about my life when and how I had lived . 
And to some of my answers he exclaimed , Good God ! '' That was all . 
He was a handsome man , with hands like a woman's , well set off by the lace at his sleeves . 
He had fine cut features , and the white linen he wore was most becoming . 
David , '' said he , at length , and I noted that he lowered his voice , David , you seem a discreet lad . 
Pay attention to what I tell you . 
And mark ! if you disobey me , you will be well whipped . 
You have this house and garden to play in , but you are by no means to go out at the front of the house . 
And whatever you may see or hear , you are to tell no one . 
Do you understand ? '' Yes , sir , '' I said . 
For the rest , '' said he , Breed will give you food , and look out for your welfare . 
'' And so he dismissed me . 
They were lonely days after that for a boy used to activity , and only the damp garden paths and lawns to run on . 
The creek at the back of the garden was stagnant and marshy when the water fell , and overhung by leafy boughs . 
On each side of the garden was a high brick wall . 
And though I was often tempted to climb it , I felt that disobedience was disloyalty to my father . 
Then there was the great house , dark and lonely in its magnificence , over which I roamed until I knew every corner of it . 
Another amusement I had was to climb into the deep windows and peer through the blinds across the front garden into the street . 
Sometimes men stopped and talked loudly there , and again a rattle of drums would send me running to see the soldiers . 
I recall that I had a poor enough notion of what the fighting was all about . 
But I remember chiefly my insatiable longing to escape from this prison , as the great house soon became for me . 
And I yearned with a yearning I cannot express for our cabin in the hills and the old life there . 
I caught glimpses of the master on occasions only , and then I avoided him for I knew he had no wish to see me . 
Sometimes he would be seated in the gallery , tapping his foot on the floor , and sometimes pacing the garden walks with his hands opening and shutting . 
And one night I awoke with a start , and lay for a while listening until I heard something like a splash , and the scraping of the bottom boards of a boat . 
Irresistibly I jumped out of bed , and running to the gallery rail I saw two dark figures moving among the leaves below . 
The next morning I came suddenly on a strange gentleman in the gallery . 
He wore a flowered dressing gown like the one I had seen on the master , and he had a jolly , round face . 
Who the devil are you ? '' said he , but not unkindly . 
My name is David Trimble , '' said I , and I come from the mountains . 
Mr. David Trimble from the mountains , who the devil am I ? '' I don't know , sir , '' and I started to go away , not wishing to disturb him . 
Avast ! '' he cried . 
See that you remember that . 
'' I'm not here of my free will , sir , but because my father wishes it . 
'' Then he stared at me . 
How old did you say you were ? '' he demanded . 
I didn't say , '' said I. And you are of Scotch descent ? '' said he . 
I didn't say so , sir . 
'' You're a rum one , '' said he , laughing again , and he disappeared into the house . 
That day , when Breed brought me my dinner on my gallery , he did not speak of a visitor . 
You may be sure I did not mention the circumstance . 
But Breed always told me the outside news . 
Dey's gittin' ready fo' a big fight , Marse Dave , '' said he . 
Mister Moultrie in the fo't in de bay , an' Marse Gen'l Lee tryin' for to boss him . 
An' Marse Admiral Parker an' de King's reg'ments fixin' fo' to tek de fo't , an' den Charlesto'n . 
Dey say Mister Moultrie ain't got no mo' chance dan a treed 'possum . 
'' Why , Breed ? '' I asked . 
I had heard my father talk of England's power and might , and Mister Moultrie seemed to me a very brave man in his little fort . 
Why ! '' exclaimed the old negro . 
You ain't neber read no hist'ry books . 
I knows some of de gentlemen wid Mister Moultrie . 
Some is fine gentlemen , to be suah , but it's jist foolishness to fight dat fleet an' army . 
Marse Gen'l Lee hisself , he done sesso . 
'' And he's on Mister Moultrie's side ? '' I asked . 
Sholy , '' said Breed . 
'' Then he's a knave and a coward ! '' I cried with a boy's indignation . 
Where did you hear him say that ? '' I demanded , incredulous of some of Breed's talk . 
Right heah in dis house , '' he answered , and quickly clapped his hand to his mouth , and showed the whites of his eyes . 
You ain't agwineter tell dat , Marse Dave ? '' Of course not , '' said I. And then I wish I could see Mister Moultrie in his fort , and the fleet . 
'' Why , honey , so you kin , '' said Breed . 
The good natured negro dropped his work and led the way upstairs , I following expectant , to the attic . 
, whence the bay spread out before me like a picture , the white islands edged with the whiter lacing of the waves . 
There , indeed , was the fleet , but far away , like toy ships on the water , and the bit of a fort perched on the sandy edge of an island . 
I spent most of that day there , watching anxiously for some movement . 
That night I was again awakened . 
And running into the gallery , I heard quick footsteps in the garden . 
Then there was a lantern's flash , a smothered oath , and all was dark again . 
But in the flash I had seen distinctly three figures . 
One was Breed , and he held the lantern another was the master and the third , a stout one muffled in a cloak , I made no doubt was my jolly friend . 
I lay long awake , with a boy's curiosity , until presently the dawn broke , and I arose and dressed , and began to wander about the house . 
No Breed was sweeping the gallery , nor was there any sign of the master . 
The house was as still as a tomb , and the echoes of my footsteps rolled through the halls and chambers . 
At last , prompted by curiosity and fear , I sought the kitchen , where I had often sat with Breed as he cooked the master's dinner . 
This was at the bottom and end of the house . 
The great fire there was cold , and the pots and pans hung neatly on their hooks , untouched that day . 
I was running through the wet garden , glad to be out in the light , when a sound stopped me . 
It was a dull roar from the direction of the bay . 
Almost instantly came another , and another , and then several broke together . 
And I knew that the battle had begun . 
There was the battle indeed , a sight so vivid to me after all these years that I can call it again before me when I will . 
The toy men o' war , with sails set , ranging in front of the fort . 
They looked at my distance to be pressed against it . 
White puffs , like cotton balls , would dart one after another from a ship's side , melt into a cloud , float over her spars , and hide her from my view . 
And then presently the roar would reach me , and answering puffs along the line of the fort . 
And I could see the mortar shells go up and up , leaving a scorched trail behind , curve in a great circle , and fall upon the little garrison . 
Mister Moultrie became a real person to me then , a vivid picture in my boyish mind a hero beyond all other heroes . 
As the sun got up in the heavens and the wind fell , the cupola became a bake oven . 
But I scarcely felt the heat . 
My whole soul was out in the bay , pent up with the men in the fort . 
But at noon it seemed to me as though some of the ships were sailing . 
Slowly they drew away from the others , and presently I thought they had stopped again . 
Surely two of them were stuck together , then three were fast on a shoal . 
Boats , like black bugs in the water , came and went between them and the others . 
After a long time the two that were together got apart and away . 
But the third stayed there , immovable , helpless . 
Throughout the afternoon the fight , kept on , the little black boats coming and going . 
I saw a mast totter and fall on one of the ships . 
I saw the flag shot away from the fort , and reappear again . 
But now the puffs came from her walls slowly and more slowly , so that my heart sank with the setting sun . 
And presently it grew too dark to see aught save the red flashes . 
Slowly , reluctantly , the noise died down until at last a great silence reigned , broken only now and again by voices in the streets below me . 
It was not until then that I realized that I had been all day without food that I was alone in the dark of a great house . 
I had never known fear in the woods at night . 
But now I trembled as I felt my way down the ladder , and groped and stumbled through the black attic for the stairs . 
Every noise I made seemed louder an hundred fold than the battle had been , and when I barked my shins , the pain was sharper than a knife . 
Frantically as I tried , I could not unfasten the bolts on the front door . 
The still air of the night and the heavy , damp odors of the foliage helped me . 
And I tried to think what was right for me to do . 
I had promised the master not to leave the place , and that promise seemed in pledge to my father . 
Surely the master would come back or Breed . 
They would not leave me here alone without food much longer . 
Although I was young , I was brought up to responsibility . 
And I inherited a conscience that has since given me much trouble . 
From these thoughts , trying enough for a starved lad , I fell to thinking of my father on the frontier fighting the Cherokees . 
And so I dozed away to dream of him . 
I remember that he was skinning Cameron , I had often pictured it , and Cameron yelling , when I was awakened with a shock by a great noise . 
I listened with my heart in my throat . 
The noise seemed to come from the hall , a prodigious pounding . 
Presently it stopped , and a man's voice cried out Ho there , within ! '' My first impulse was to answer . 
But fear kept me still . 
Batter down the door , '' some one shouted . 
A lantern's rays shot through the hall . 
The house is as dark as a tomb , '' said a voice . 
And as empty , I reckon , '' said another . 
John Temple and his spy have got away . 
'' We'll have a search , '' answered the first voice . 
They stood for a moment in the drawing room door , peering , and then they entered . 
There were five of them . 
Two looked to be gentlemen , and three were of rougher appearance . 
That window's open , '' said one of the gentlemen . 
They must have been here to day . 
Hello , what's this ? '' He started back in surprise . 
I slid down from the window seat , and stood facing them , not knowing what else to do . 
They , too , seemed equally confounded . 
It must be Temple's son , '' said one , at last . 
I had thought the family at Temple Bow . 
What's your name , my lad ? '' David Trimble , sir , '' said I. And what are you doing here ? '' he asked more sternly . 
I was left in Mr. Temple's care by my father . 
'' Oho ! '' he cried . 
And where is your father ? '' He's gone to fight the Cherokees , '' I answered soberly . 
To skin a man named Cameron . 
'' At that they were silent for an instant , and then the two broke into a laugh . 
Egad , Lowndes , '' said the gentleman , here is a fine mystery . 
Do you think the boy is lying ? '' The other gentleman scratched his forehead . 
I'll have you know I don't lie , sir , '' I said , ready to cry . 
No , '' said the other gentleman . 
A backwoodsman named Trimble went to Rutledge with credentials from North Carolina , and has gone off to Cherokee Ford to join McCall . 
'' Bless my soul ! '' exclaimed the first gentleman . 
He came up and laid his hand on my shoulder , and said Where is Mr. Temple ? '' That I don't know , sir . 
'' When did he go away ? '' I did not answer at once . 
That I can't tell you , sir . 
'' Was there any one with him ? '' That I can't tell you , sir . 
'' The devil you can't ! '' he cried , taking his hand away . 
And why not ? '' I shook my head , sorely beset . 
Come , Mathews , '' cried the gentleman called Lowndes . 
We'll search first , and attend to the lad after . 
'' And so they began going through the house , prying into every cupboard and sweeping under every bed . 
They even climbed to the attic and noting the open casement in the cupola , Mr. Lowndes said Some one has been here to day . 
'' It was I , sir , '' I said . 
I have been here all day . 
'' And what doing , pray ? '' he demanded . 
And oh , sir , '' I cried , can you tell me whether Mister Moultrie beat the British ? '' He did so , '' cried Mr. Lowndes . 
He did , and soundly . 
'' He stared at me . 
I must have looked my pleasure . 
Why , David , '' says he , you are a patriot , too . 
'' I am a Rebel , sir , '' I cried hotly . 
Both gentlemen laughed again , and the men with them . 
The lad is a character , '' said Mr. Lowndes . 
We made our way down into the garden , which they searched last . 
At the creek's side the boat was gone , and there were footsteps in the mud . 
The bird has flown , Lowndes , '' said Mr. Mathews . 
And good riddance for the Committee , '' answered that gentleman , heartily . 
He got to the fleet in fine season to get a round shot in the middle . 
David , '' said he , solemnly , remember it never pays to try to be two things at once . 
'' I'll warrant he stayed below water , '' said Mr. Mathews . 
But what shall we do with the lad ? '' I'll take him to my house for the night , '' said Mr. Lowndes , and in the morning we'll talk to him . 
I reckon he should be sent to Temple Bow . 
He is connected in some way with the Temples . 
'' God help him if he goes there , '' said Mr. Mathews , under his breath . 
They locked up the house , and left one of the men to guard it , while I went with Mr. Lowndes to his residence . 
I remember that people were gathered in the streets as we passed , making merry , and that they greeted Mr. Lowndes with respect and good cheer . 
His house , too , was set in a garden and quite as fine as Mr. Temple's . 
It was ablaze with candles , and I caught glimpses of fine gentlemen and ladies in the rooms . 
But he hurried me through the hall , and into a little chamber at the rear where a writing desk was set . 
He turned and faced me . 
You must be tired , David , '' he said . 
And hungry ? Boys are always hungry . 
'' You had no dinner ? '' No , sir , '' I answered , off my guard . 
Mercy ! '' he said . 
It is a long time since breakfast . 
'' I had no breakfast , sir . 
'' Good God ! '' he said , and pulled the velvet handle of a cord . 
Is the supper for the guests ready ? '' Yes , Marsa . 
'' Then bring as much as you can carry here , '' said the gentleman . 
And ask Mrs. Lowndes if I may speak with her . 
'' Mrs. Lowndes came first . 
And such a fine lady she was that she frightened me , this being my first experience with ladies . 
But when Mr. Lowndes told her my story , she ran to me impulsively and put her arms about me . 
Poor lad ! '' she said . 
What a shame ! '' I think that the tears came then , but it was small wonder . 
There were tears in her eyes , too . 
Such a supper as I had I shall never forget . 
And she sat beside me for long , neglecting her guests , and talking of my life . 
Suddenly she turned to her husband , calling him by name . 
He is Alec Ritchie's son , '' she said , and Alec has gone against Cameron . 
'' Mr. Lowndes did not answer , but nodded . 
And must he go to Temple Bow ? '' My dear , '' said Mr. Lowndes , I fear it is our duty to send him there . 
'' CHAPTER IV TEMPLE BOW In the morning I started for Temple Bow on horseback behind one of Mr. Lowndes' negroes . 
Good Mrs. Lowndes had kissed me at parting , and tucked into my pocket a parcel of sweetmeats . 
There had been a few grave gentlemen to see me , and to their questions I had replied what I could . 
But tell them of Mr. Temple I would not , save that he himself had told me nothing . 
And Mr. Lowndes had presently put an end to their talk . 
The lad knows nothing , gentlemen , '' he had said , which was true . 
David , '' said he , when he bade me farewell , I see that your father has brought you up to fear God . 
Remember that all you see in this life is not to be imitated . 
'' And so I went off behind his negro . 
He was a merry lad , and despite the great heat of the journey and my misgivings about Temple Bow , he made me laugh . 
I was sad at crossing the ferry over the Ashley , through thinking of my father , but I reflected that it could not be long now ere I saw him again . 
In the middle of the day we stopped at a tavern . 
And presently , winding through the trees , we were in sight of a long , brick mansion trimmed with white , and a velvet lawn before it all flecked with shadows . 
In front of the portico was a saddled horse , craning his long neck at two panting hounds stretched on the ground . 
A negro boy in blue clutched the bridle . 
On the horse block a gentleman in white reclined . 
He wore shiny boots , and he held his hat in his hand , and he was gazing up at a lady who stood on the steps above him . 
The lady I remember as well Lord forbid that I should forget her . 
And her laugh as I heard it that evening is ringing now in my ears . 
And yet it was not a laugh . 
It stopped abruptly as the negro pulled up his horse before her , and she stared at us haughtily . 
What's this ? '' she said . 
Pardon , Mistis , '' said the negro , I'se got a letter from Marse Lowndes . 
'' Mr. Lowndes should instruct his niggers , '' she said . 
There is a servants' drive . 
'' The man was turning his horse when she cried Hold ! Let's have it . 
She must have been about thirty . 
Her face was beautiful , but had no particle of expression in it , and was dotted here and there with little black patches of plaster . 
While she was reading , a sober gentleman in black silk breeches and severe coat came out of the house and stood beside her . 
With a leap he landed sprawling on the indolent gentleman's shoulders , nearly upsetting him . 
Harry Riddle , '' cried the boy , I'll ride steeplechases and beat you some day . 
'' Hush , Nick , '' cried the lady , petulantly , I'll have no nerves left me . 
'' She turned to the letter again , holding it very near to her eyes , and made a wry face of impatience . 
Then she held the sheet out to Mr. Riddle . 
A pretty piece of news , '' she said languidly . 
The gentleman seized her hand instead . 
The lady glanced at the clergyman , whose back was turned , and shook her head . 
How tiresome you are ! '' she said . 
What's happened ? '' asked Mr. Riddle , letting go as the parson looked around . 
Oh , they've had a battle , '' said the lady , and Moultrie and his Rebels have beat off the King's fleet . 
'' The devil they have ! '' exclaimed Mr. Riddle , while the parson started forwards . 
Anything more ? '' Yes , a little . 
That husband of mine has fled Charlestown . 
They think he went to the fleet . 
'' And she shot a meaning look at Mr. Riddle , who in turn flushed red . 
What ! '' cried the clergyman , John Temple has run away ? '' Why not , '' said Mr. Riddle . 
One can't live between wind and water long . 
And Charlestown's uncomfortable in summer . 
'' At that the clergyman cast one look at them such a look as I shall never forget and went into the house . 
Mamma , '' said the boy , where has father gone ? Has he run away ? '' Yes . 
Don't bother me , Nick . 
'' I don't believe it , '' cried Nick , his high voice shaking . 
'' At that Mr. Riddle burst into a hearty laugh . 
Come , Nick , '' said he , it isn't so bad as that . 
Your father's for his Majesty , like the rest of us . 
He's merely gone over to fight for him . 
'' And he looked at the lady and laughed again . 
But I liked the boy . 
As for the lady , she curled her lip . 
Mr. Riddle , don't be foolish , '' she said . 
If we are to play , send your horse to the stables . 
'' Suddenly her eye lighted on me . 
One more brat , '' she sighed . 
Nick , take him to the nursery , or the stable . 
And both of you keep out of my sight . 
'' Nick strode up to me . 
She's always saying , Keep out of my sight . 
He took me by the sleeve and began pulling me around the house and into a little summer bower that stood there for he had a masterful manner . 
What's your name ? '' he demanded . 
David Trimble , '' I said . 
Have you seen my father in town ? '' The intense earnestness of the question surprised an answer out of me . 
'' Where ? '' he demanded . 
My father left me with your father . 
'' Tell me about it . 
'' I related as much as I dared , leaving out Mr. Temple's double dealing which , in truth , I did not understand . 
But the boy was relentless . 
Why , '' said he , my father was a friend of Mr. Lowndes and Mr. Mathews . 
I have seen them here drinking with him . 
And he ran away ? '' I do not know where he went , '' said I , which was the truth . 
He said nothing , but hid his face in his arms over the rail of the bower . 
At length he looked up at me fiercely . 
If you ever tell this , I will kill you , '' he cried . 
Do you hear ? '' That made me angry . 
Yes , I hear , '' I said . 
But I am not afraid of you . 
He was taller than I , and wiry , but not so rugged . 
Yet there was a look about him that was far beyond his strength . 
A look that meant , NEVER SAY DIE . 
Curiously , even as I fought desperately I compared him with that other lad I had known , Andy Jackson . 
And this one , though not so powerful , frightened me the more in his relentlessness . 
And it was all that gentleman could do to hold him . 
I am sure it was quite five minutes before he forced the lad , exhausted , on to the seat . 
And then there was a defiance about his nostrils that showed he was undefeated . 
The clergyman , still holding him with one hand , took out his handkerchief with the other and wiped his brow . 
I expected a scolding and a sermon . 
The parson looked at me queerly . 
Then you are in the right of it , '' he said . 
It is as I thought I'll not expect Nicholas to tell me . 
'' I will tell you , sir , '' said Nicholas . 
He was in the house with my father when when he ran away . 
And I said that if he ever spoke of it to any one , I would kill him . 
'' For a while the clergyman was silent , gazing with a strange tenderness at the lad , whose face was averted . 
And you , David ? '' he said presently . 
I I never mean to tell , sir . 
But I was not to be frightened . 
'' Quite right , my lad , '' said the clergyman , so kindly that it sent a strange thrill through me . 
You won't tell ? '' he said . 
No , '' I said . 
You can let me go now , Mr. Mason , '' said he . 
And he came over and sat beside me , but said nothing more . 
After a while Mr. Mason cleared his throat . 
Nicholas , '' said he , when you grow older you will understand these matters better . 
Your father went away to join the side he believes in , the side we all believe in the King's side . 
Did he ever pretend to like the other side ? '' asked Nick , quickly . 
When you grow older you will know his motives , '' answered the clergyman , gently . 
Until then you must trust him . 
'' You never pretended , '' cried Nick . 
Thank God I never was forced to do so , '' said the clergyman , fervently . 
It is wonderful that the conditions of our existence may wholly change without a seeming strangeness . 
After many years only vivid snatches of what I saw and heard and did at Temple Bow come back to me . 
I understood but little the meaning of the seigniorial life there . 
My chief wonder now is that its golden surface was not more troubled by the winds then brewing . 
It was a new life to me , one that I had not dreamed of . 
After that first falling out , Nick and I became inseparable . 
Far slower than he in my likes and dislikes , he soon became a passion with me . 
Even as a boy , he did everything with a grace unsurpassed the dash and daring of his pranks took one's breath his generosity to those he loved was prodigal . 
Nor did he ever miss a chance to score those under his displeasure . 
At times he was reckless beyond words to describe , and again he would fall sober for a day . 
He could be cruel and tender in the same hour abandoned and freezing in his dignity . 
He had an old negro mammy whose worship for him and his possessions was idolatry . 
I can hear her now calling and calling , Marse Nick , honey , yo' supper's done got cole , '' as she searched patiently among the magnolias . 
And suddenly there would be a shout , and Mammy's turban go flying from her woolly head , or Mammy herself would be dragged down from behind and sat upon . 
We had our supper , Nick and I , at twilight , in the children's dining room . 
We sat at a little mahogany table eating porridge and cream from round blue bowls , with Mammy to wait on us . 
Sometimes there floated in upon us the hum of revelry from the great drawing room where Madame had her company . 
, and talk to us of our day's doings . 
Nick had his lessons from the clergyman in the winter time . 
Mr. Mason took occasion once to question me on what I knew . 
Some of my answers , in especial those relating to my knowledge of the Bible , surprised him . 
David , '' said he , you are an earnest lad , with a head to learn , and you will . 
When your father comes , I shall talk with him . 
'' He paused I knew him , '' said he , I knew him ere you were born . 
A just man , and upright , but with a great sorrow . 
We must never be hasty in our judgments . 
But you will never be hasty , David , '' he added , smiling at me . 
You are a good companion for Nicholas . 
'' Nicholas and I slept in the same bedroom , at a corner of the long house , and far removed from his mother . 
She would not be disturbed by the noise he made in the mornings . 
I remember that he had cut in the solid shutters of that room , folded into the embrasures , Nicholas Temple , His Mark , '' and a long , flat sword . 
The first night in that room we slept but little , near the whole of it being occupied with tales of my adventures and of my life in the mountains . 
Over and over again I must tell him of the painters'' and wildcats , of deer and bear and wolf . 
Nor was he ever satisfied . 
And at length I came to speak of that land where I had often lived in fancy the land beyond the mountains of which Daniel Boone had told . 
Of its forest and glade , its countless herds of elk and buffalo , its salt licks and Indians , until we fell asleep from sheer exhaustion . 
I will go there , '' he cried in the morning , as he hurried into his clothes I will go to that land as sure as my name is Nick Temple . 
And you shall go with me , David . 
'' Perchance I shall go before you , '' I answered , though I had small hopes of persuading my father . 
And many days we spent in the wood , playing at hunting game a poor enough amusement for me , and one that Nick soon tired of . 
They were thick , wet woods , unlike our woods of the mountains and more than once we had excitement enough with the snakes that lay there . 
I believe that in a week's time Nick was as conversant with my life as I myself . 
For he made me tell of it again and again , and of Kentucky . 
And always as he listened his eyes would glow and his breast heave with excitement . 
Do you think your father will take you there , David , when he comes for you ? '' I hoped so , but was doubtful . 
I'll run away with you , '' he declared . 
There is no one here who cares for me save Mr. Mason and Mammy . 
'' And I believe he meant it . 
He saw but little of his mother , and nearly always something unpleasant was coupled with his views . 
Sometimes we ran across her in the garden paths walking with a gallant , oftenest Mr. Riddle . 
It was a beautiful garden , with hedge bordered walks and flowers wondrously massed in color , a high brick wall surrounding it . 
'' Once we heard high words between the two , and running into the garden found the cards scattered on the grass , and the couple gone . 
Of all Nick's escapades , and he was continually in and out of them , I recall only a few of the more serious . 
Life was always war with him , or some semblance of a struggle . 
Of his many wild doings I recall well the time when fired by my tales of hunting he went out to attack the young bull in the paddock with a bow and arrow . 
It made small difference to the bull that the arrow was too blunt to enter his hide . 
With a bellow that frightened the idle negroes at the slave quarters , he started for Master Nick . 
As the furious animal came charging , with his head lowered , I struck him by a good fortune between the eyes , and Nicholas got over . 
We were standing on the far side , watching him pawing the broken bow , when , in the crowd of frightened negroes , we discovered the parson beside us . 
David , '' said he , patting me with a shaking hand , I perceive that you have a cool head . 
Our young friend here has a hot one . 
Johnson may not care for Scotch blood , and yet I think a wee bit of it is not to be despised . 
'' I wondered whether Dr . 
Johnson was staying in the house , too . 
One day a huge Congo chief , not long from Africa , nearly killed an overseer , and escaped to the swamp . 
As the day fell , we heard the baying of the bloodhounds hot upon his trail . 
More ominous still , a sound like a rising wind came from the direction of the quarters . 
Into our little dining room burst Mrs. Temple herself , slamming the door behind her . 
Mr. Mason , who was sitting with us , rose to calm her . 
The Rebels ! '' she cried . 
The Rebels have taught them this , with their accursed notions of liberty and equality . 
We shall all be murdered by the blacks because of the Rebels . 
Oh , hell fire is too good for them . 
Have the house barred and a watch set to night . 
What shall we do ? '' I pray you compose yourself , Madame , '' said the clergyman . 
We can send for the militia . 
'' The militia ! '' she shrieked the Rebel militia ! They would murder us as soon as the niggers . 
'' They are respectable men , '' answered Mr. Mason , and were at Fanning Hall to day patrolling . 
'' I would rather be killed by whites than blacks , '' said the lady . 
But who is to go for the militia ? '' I will ride for them , '' said Mr. Mason . 
It was a dark , lowering night , and spitting rain . 
And leave me defenceless ! '' she cried . 
You do not stir , sir . 
'' It is a pity , '' said Mr. Mason he was goaded to it , I suppose 'tis a pity Mr. Riddle did not come to night . 
'' She shot at him a withering look , for even in her fear she would brook no liberties . 
Nick spoke up I will go , '' said he I can get through the woods to Fanning Hall '' And I will go with him , '' I said . 
Let the brats go , '' she said , and cut short Mr. Mason's expostulations . 
She drew Nick to her and kissed him . 
He wriggled away , and without more ado we climbed out of the dining room windows into the night . 
Running across the lawn , we left the lights of the great house twinkling behind us in the rain . 
We had to pass the long line of cabins at the quarters . 
Three overseers with lanterns stood guard there the cabins were dark , the wretches within silent and cowed . 
Thence we felt with our feet for the path across the fields , stumbled over a sty , and took our way through the black woods . 
I was at home here , and Nick was not to be frightened . 
At intervals the mournful bay of a bloodhound came to us from a distance . 
Suppose we should meet the Congo chief , '' said Nick , suddenly . 
The idea had occurred to me . 
She needn't have been so frightened , '' said he , in scornful remembrance of his mother's actions . 
Nick knew the path as only a boy can . 
The rain ceased , and a new moon shot out between the leaves . 
What's that ? '' I whispered . 
'' But I , cradled in woodcraft , had heard plainly a man creeping through the underbrush beside us . 
Fear of the Congo chief and pity for the wretch tore at my heart . 
Suddenly there loomed in front of us , on the path , a great , naked man . 
We stood with useless limbs , staring at him . 
Then , from the trees over our heads , came a chittering and a chattering such as I had never heard . 
The big man before us dropped to the earth , his head bowed , muttering . 
As for me , my fright increased . 
The chattering stopped , and Nick stepped forward and laid his hand on the negro's bare shoulder . 
We needn't be afraid of him now , Davy , '' he said . 
I learned that trick from a Portuguese overseer we had last year . 
'' You did it ! '' I exclaimed , my astonishment overcoming my fear . 
It's the way the monkeys chatter in the Canaries , '' he said . 
Manuel had a tame one , and I heard it talk . 
Once before I tried it on the chief , and he fell down . 
He thinks I'm a god . 
'' It must have been a weird scene to see the great negro following two boys in the moonlight . 
Indeed , he came after us like a dog . 
At length we were in sight of the lights of Fanning Hall . 
We were challenged by the guard , and caused sufficient amazement when we appeared in the hall before the master , who was a bachelor of fifty . 
'Sblood , Nick Temple ! '' he cried , what are you doing here with that big Congo for a dog ? The sight of him frightens me . 
'' The negro , indeed , was a sight to frighten one . 
The black mud of the swamps was caked on him , and his flesh was torn by brambles . 
He ran away , '' said Nick and I am taking him home . 
'' You you are taking him home ! '' sputtered Mr. Fanning . 
Do you want to see him act ? '' said Nick . 
And without waiting for a reply he filled the hall with a dozen monkeys . 
Mr. Fanning leaped back into a doorway , but the chief prostrated himself on the floor . 
Now do you believe I can take him home ? '' said Nick . 
'Swounds ! '' said Mr. Fanning , when he had his breath . 
You beat the devil , Nicholas Temple . 
The next time you come to call I pray you leave your travelling show at home . 
Mamma sent me for the militia , '' said Nick . 
She did ! '' said Mr. Fanning , looking grim . 
An insurrection is a bad thing , but there was no danger for two lads in the woods , I suppose . 
'' There's no danger anyway , '' said Nick . 
The niggers are all scared to death . 
'' Mr. Fanning burst out into a loud laugh , stopped suddenly , sat down , and took Nick on his knee . 
It was an incongruous scene . 
Bless your soul , '' he said , but you are a lad . 
Would to God I had you instead of '' He paused abruptly . 
I must go home , '' said Nick she will be worried . 
'' SHE will be worried ! '' cried Mr. Fanning , in a burst of anger . 
Then he said You shall have the militia . 
You shall have the militia . 
'' He rang a bell and sent his steward for the captain , a gawky country farmer , who gave a gasp when he came upon the scene in the hall . 
And mind , '' said Nick to the captain , you are to keep your men away from him , or he will kill one of them . 
'' The captain grinned at him curiously . 
I reckon I won't have to tell them to keep away , '' said he . 
Mr. Fanning started us off for the walk with pockets filled with sweetmeats , which we nibbled on the way back . 
It was midnight when we saw the lights of Temple Bow through the trees . 
One of the tired overseers met us near the kitchen . 
When he perceived the Congo his face lighted up with rage , and he instinctively reached for his whip . 
But the chief stood before him , immovable , with arms folded , and a look on his face that meant danger . 
He will kill you , Emory , '' said Nick he will kill you if you touch him . 
Emory dropped his hand , limply . 
He will go to work in the morning , '' said Nick but mind you , not a lash . 
'' Very good , Master Nick , '' said the man but who's to get him in his cabin ? '' I will , '' said Nick . 
He beckoned to the Congo , who followed him over to quarters and went in at his door without a protest . 
The next morning Mrs. Temple looked out of her window and saw the militiamen on the lawn . 
One of our amusements , I recall , was to go to the Congo's cabin to see him fall on his face , until Mr. Mason put a stop to it . 
The clergyman let us know that we were encouraging idolatry , and he himself took the chief in hand . 
Another incident comes to me from those bygone days . 
The fear of negro insurrections at the neighboring plantations being temporarily lulled , the gentry began to pluck up courage for their usual amusements . 
There were to be races at some place a distance away , and Nick was determined to go . 
Had he not determined that I should go , all would have been well . 
The evening before he came upon his mother in the garden . 
Strange to say , she was in a gracious mood and alone . 
Come and kiss me , Nick , '' she said . 
Now , what do you want ? '' I want to go to the races , '' he said . 
You can follow the coach . 
'' David is to ride the pony , '' said Nick , generously . 
May I go in the coach ? '' No , '' she said , there is no room for you . 
Harry Riddle is going in the coach . 
I don't see why you can't take me sometimes . 
You like him better than me . 
'' The lady flushed very red . 
How dare you , Nick ! '' she cried angrily . 
What has Mr. Mason been putting into your head ? '' Nothing , '' said Nick , quite as angrily . 
Any one can see that you like Harry . 
And I WILL ride in the coach . 
'' You'll not , '' said his mother . 
I had heard nothing of this . 
The next morning he led out his pony from the stables for me to ride , and insisted . 
And , supposing he was to go in the coach , I put foot in the stirrup . 
The little beast would scarce stand still for me to mount . 
Presently , with a great noise and clatter of hoofs , the coach rounded the drive , the powdered negro coachman pulling up the four horses with much ceremony at the door . 
It was a wondrous great vehicle , the bright colors of its body flashing in the morning light . 
I had examined it more than once , and with awe , in the coach house . 
It had glass windows and a lion on a blue shield on the door , and within it was all salmon silk , save the painted design on the ceiling . 
Great leather straps held up this house on wheels , to take the jolts of the road . 
And behind it was a platform . 
That morning two young negroes with flowing blue coats stood on it . 
They leaped to the ground when the coach stopped , and stood each side of the door , waiting for my lady to enter . 
She came down the steps , laughing , with Mr. Riddle , who was in his riding clothes , for he was to race that day . 
He handed her in , and got in after her . 
The coachman cracked his whip , the coach creaked off down the drive , I in the trees one side waiting for them to pass , and wondering what Nick was to do . 
What possessed the footman I know not . 
I guessed what would happen . 
Picking himself up , Nick was at the man like a hurricane , seizing him swiftly by the leg . 
The negro fell upon the platform , clutching wildly , where he lay in a sheer fright , shrieking for mercy , his cries rivalled by those of the lady within . 
You young devil , '' cried Mr. Riddle , angrily , striding forward , what are you doing ? '' Keep off , Harry , '' said Nicholas . 
I am teaching this nigger that he is not to lay hands on his betters . 
'' With that he gave the boy one more cut , and turned from him contemptuously . 
What is it , Harry ? '' came in a shrill voice from within the coach . 
It's Nick's pranks , '' said Mr. Riddle , grinning in spite of his anger he's ruined one of your footmen . 
You little scoundrel , '' cried Mr. Riddle , advancing again , you've frightened your mother nearly to a swoon . 
'' Serves her right , '' said Nick . 
What ! '' cried Mr. Riddle . 
Come down from there instantly . 
'' Nick raised his whip . 
It was not that that stopped Mr. Riddle , but a sign about the lad's nostrils . 
Harry Riddle , '' said the boy , if it weren't for you , I'd be riding in this coach to day with my mother . 
I don't want to ride with her , but I will go to the races . 
If you try to take me down , I'll do my best to kill you , '' and he lifted the loaded end of the whip . 
Mrs. Temple's beautiful face had by this time been thrust out of the door . 
For the love of heaven , Harry , let him come in with us . 
We're late enough as it is . 
'' Mr. Riddle turned on his heel . 
He tried to glare at Nick , but he broke into a laugh instead . 
Come down , Satan , '' says he . 
God help the woman you love and the man you fight . 
'' And so Nicholas jumped down , and into the coach . 
The footman picked himself up , more scared than injured , and the vehicle took its lumbering way for the race course , I following . 
I have seen many courses since , but none to equal that in the gorgeous dress of those who watched . 
There had been many , many more in former years , so I heard people say . 
This was the only sign that a war was in progress , the scanty number of gentry present , for all save the indifferent were gone to Charlestown or elsewhere . 
Yet so runs the world , strife at one man's home , and peace and contentment at his neighbor's sorrow here , and rejoicing not a league away . 
Master Nicholas played one prank that evening that was near to costing dear . 
My lady Temple made up a party for Temple Bow at the course , two other coaches to come and some gentlemen riding . 
As Nick and I were running through the paddock we came suddenly upon Mr. Harry Riddle and a stout , swarthy gentleman standing together . 
The stout gentleman was counting out big gold pieces in his hand and giving them to Mr. Riddle . 
Lucky dog ! '' said the stout gentleman you'll ride back with her , and you've won all I've got . 
'' And he dug Mr. Riddle in the ribs . 
You'll have it again when we play to night , Darnley , '' answered Mr. Riddle , crossly . 
And as for the seat in the coach , you are welcome to it . 
That firebrand of a lad is on the front seat . 
'' D n the lad , '' said the stout gentleman . 
I'll take it , and you can ride my horse . 
He'll he'll carry you , I reckon . 
'' His voice had a way of cracking into a mellow laugh . 
At that Mr. Riddle went off in a towering bad humor , and afterwards I heard him cursing the stout gentleman's black groom as he mounted his great horse . 
And then he cursed the horse as it reared and plunged , while the stout gentleman stood at the coach door , cackling at his discomfiture . 
The gentleman did ride home with Mrs. Temple , Nick going into another coach . 
I afterwards discovered that the gentleman had bribed him with a guinea . 
And Mr. Riddle more than once came near running down my pony on his big charger , and he swore at me roundly , too . 
That night there was a gay supper party in the big dining room at Temple Bow . 
Nick and I looked on from the gallery window . 
It was a pretty sight . 
And presently , after the ladies were gone , the gentlemen tossed off their wine and roared over their jokes , and followed into the drawing room . 
This I noticed , that only Mr. Harry Riddle sat silent and morose , and that he had drunk more than the others . 
Come , Davy , '' said Nick to me , let's go and watch them again . 
'' But how ? '' I asked , for the drawing room windows were up some distance from the ground , and there was no gallery on that side . 
I'll show you , '' said he , running into the garden . 
Then we both clambered cautiously to the top and looked in . 
The company were at cards , silent , save for a low remark now and again . 
The little tables were ranged along by the windows , and it chanced that Mr. Harry Riddle sat so close to us that we could touch him . 
On his right sat Mr. Darnley , the stout gentleman , and in the other seats two ladies . 
Between Mr. Riddle and Mr. Darnley was a pile of silver and gold pieces . 
There was not room for two of us in comfort at the top of the ladder , so I gave place to Nick , and sat on a lower rung . 
Presently I saw him raise himself , reach in , and duck quickly . 
Feel that , '' he whispered to me , chuckling and holding out his hand . 
It was full of money . 
But that's stealing , Nick , '' I said , frightened . 
Of course I'll give it back , '' he whispered indignantly . 
Instantly there came loud words and the scraping of chairs within the room , and a woman's scream . 
I heard Mr. Riddle's voice say thickly , amid the silence that followed Mr. Darnley , you're a d d thief , sir . 
'' You shall answer for this , when you are sober , sir , '' said Mr. Darnley . 
Then there came more scraping of chairs , all the company talking excitedly at once . 
Nick and I scrambled to the ground , and we did the very worst thing we could possibly have done , we took the ladder away . 
There was little sleep for me that night . 
I had first of all besought Nick to go up into the drawing room and give the money back . 
But some strange obstinacy in him resisted . 
'Twill serve Harry well for what he did to day , '' said he . 
My next thought was to find Mr. Mason , but he was gone up the river to visit a sick parishioner . 
I had seen enough of the world to know that gentlemen fought for less than what had occurred in the drawing room that evening . 
But Nick would not listen to me , and went to sleep in the midst of my urgings . 
Davy , '' said he , pinching me , do you know what you are ? '' No , '' said I. You're a granny , '' he said . 
And that was the last word I could get out of him . 
But I lay awake a long time , thinking . 
They were wild doings indeed to me . 
But strangest of all seemed the duels , conducted with a decorum and ceremony as rigorous as the law . 
Did you ever see a duel , Breed ? '' I had asked . 
Yessah , '' said Breed , dramatically , rolling the whites of his eyes . 
Where ? '' Whah ? Down on de riveh bank at Temple Bow in de ea'ly mo'nin' ! Dey mos' commonly fights at de dawn . 
Breed had also told me where he was in hiding at the time , and that was what troubled me . 
Try as I would , I could not remember . 
It had sounded like Clam Shell . 
That I recalled , and how Breed had looked out at the sword play through the cracks of the closed shutters , agonized between fear of ghosts within and the drama without . 
At the first faint light that came into our window I awakened Nick . 
Listen , '' I said do you know a place called Clam Shell ? '' He turned over , but I punched him persistently until he sat up . 
What the deuce ails you , Davy ? '' he asked , rubbing his eyes . 
'' What's that ? '' I asked . 
It's a house that used to belong to Cram , who was an overseer . 
The niggers hated him , and he was killed in bed by a big black nigger chief from Africa . 
The niggers won't go near the place . 
'' Get up , '' said I we're going there now . 
'' Nick sprang out of bed and began to get into his clothes . 
Is it a game ? '' he asked . 
'' He was always ready for a game . 
We climbed out of the window , and made our way in the mist through the long , wet grass , Nick leading . 
What's to do now ? '' said Nick . 
We must get into the house , '' I answered . 
But I confess I didn't care for the looks of it . 
Very good , Davy , '' he said I'll follow where you go . 
'' It was a Saturday morning . 
Why I recall this I do not know . 
It has no special significance . 
With a groan and a shriek it gave way , disclosing the blackness inside . 
I looked at Nick , and Nick at me . 
He was very pale , and so must I have been . 
But such was the respect we each held for the other's courage that neither dared flinch . 
And so I walked in , although it seemed as if my shirt was made of needle points and my hair stood on end . 
The crackings of the old floor were to me like the shots in Charlestown Bay . 
Our hearts beating wildly , we made our way into a farther room . 
It was like walking into the beyond . 
Is there a window here ? '' I asked Nick , my voice sounding like a shout . 
Yes , ahead of us . 
'' Groping for it , I suddenly received a shock that set me reeling . 
Human nature could stand no more . 
We both turned tail and ran out of the house as fast as we could , and stood in the wet grass , panting . 
Let's open the window first , '' I suggested . 
So we walked around the house and pried the solid shutter from its fastenings . 
Then , gathering our courage , we went in again at the door . 
In the dim light let into the farther room we saw a four poster bed , old and cheap , with ragged curtains . 
It was this that I had struck in my groping . 
The chief killed Cram there , '' said Nick , in an awed voice , in that bed . 
What do you want to do here , Davy ? '' Wait , '' I said , though I had as little mind to wait as ever in my life . 
Stand here by the window . 
The sun peeped over the bank of dense green forest and spread rainbow colors on the still waters of the river . 
Now and again a fish broke , or a great bird swooped down and slit the surface . 
A far off snatch of melody came to our ears , the slaves were going to work . 
And little by little grave misgivings gnawed at my soul of the wisdom of coming to this place . 
Doubtless there were many other spots . 
Davy , '' said Nick , at last , I'm sorry I took that money . 
What are we here for ? '' Hush ! '' I whispered do you hear anything ? '' I did , and distinctly . 
For I had been brought up in the forest . 
I hear voices , '' he said presently , coming this way . 
'' They were very clear to me by then . 
Emerging from the forest path were five gentlemen . 
The leader , more plainly dressed than the others , carried a leather case . 
They are going to fight , '' said he . 
Yes , '' I replied , and we are here to stop them , now . 
'' No , not now , '' he said , holding me still . 
We'll have some more fun out of this yet . 
'' Fun ? '' I echoed . 
Yes , '' he said excitedly . 
I shan't let them fight . 
'' And that instant we changed generals , David giving place to Nicholas . 
Mr. Riddle retired with one gentleman to a side of the little patch of grass , and Mr. Darnley and a friend to another . 
The fifth gentleman took a position halfway between the two , and , opening the leather case , laid it down on the grass , where its contents glistened . 
Ball , '' whispered Nick . 
And his voice shook with excitement . 
Mr. Riddle stripped off his coat and waistcoat and ruffles , and his sword belt , and Mr. Darnley did the same . 
Both gentlemen drew their swords and advanced to the middle of the lawn , and stood opposite one another , with flowing linen shirts open at the throat , and bared heads . 
They were indeed a contrast . 
Mr. Riddle , tall and white , with closed lips , glared at his opponent . 
Mr. Darnley cut a merrier figure , rotund and flushed , with fat calves and short arms , though his countenance was sober enough . 
He jingled as he ran . 
What in the devil's name now ? '' cried Mr. Riddle , angrily . 
Harry , '' said he , here's something of yours I found last night . 
'' You found ? '' echoed Mr. Riddle , in a strange voice , amidst a dead silence . 
You found where ? '' On the table beside you . 
'' And where the deuce were you ? '' Mr. Riddle demanded . 
In the window behind you , '' said Nick , calmly . 
This piece of information , to Mr. Riddle's plain discomfiture , was greeted with a roar of laughter , Mr. Darnley himself laughing loudest . 
Nor were these gentlemen satisfied with that . 
They crowded around Mr. Riddle and slapped him on the back , Mr. Darnley joining in with the rest . 
And presently Mr. Riddle flung away his sword , and laughed , too , giving his hand to Mr. Darnley . 
At length Mr. Darnley turned to Nick , who had stood all this while behind them , unmoved . 
My friend , '' said he , seriously , such is your regard for human life , you will probably one day be a pirate or an outlaw . 
This time we've had a laugh . 
The next time somebody will be weeping . 
I wish I were your father . 
'' I wish you were , '' said Nick . 
This took Mr. Darnley's breath . 
He glanced at the other gentlemen , who returned his look significantly . 
He laid his hand kindly on the lad's head . 
Nick , '' said he , I wish to God I were your father . 
'' After that they all went home , very merry , to breakfast , Nick and I coming after them . 
Nick was silent until we reached the house . 
Davy , '' said he , then , how old are you ? '' Ten , '' I answered . 
How old did you believe me ? '' Eighty , '' said he . 
The next day , being Sunday , we all gathered in the little church to hear Mr. Mason preach . 
Nick and I sat in the high box pew of the family with Mrs. Temple , who paid not the least attention to the sermon . 
As for me , the rhythm of it held me in fascination . 
Mr. Mason had written it out and that afternoon read over this part of it to Nick . 
Blessed are the stolid , and thrice cursed he who hath imagination , for that imagination shall devour him . 
And in thy life a sin shall be presented unto thee with a great longing . 
God , who is in heaven , gird thee for that struggle , my son , for it will surely come . 
That it may be said of you , Behold , I have refined thee , but not with silver , I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction . 
'' Seven days shalt thou wrestle with thy soul seven nights shall evil haunt thee , and how thou shalt come forth from that struggle no man may know . 
A hush was in the air , and a presage of we knew not what . 
It weighed upon my spirits , and even Nick's , and we wandered restlessly under the trees , seeking for distraction . 
About two o'clock a black line came on the horizon , and slowly crept higher until it broke into giant , fantastic shapes . 
Mutterings arose , but the sun shone hot as ever . 
We're to have a hurricane , '' said Nick . 
I wish we might have it and be done with it . 
'' At five the sun went under . 
I remember that Madame was lolling listless in the garden , daintily arrayed in fine linen , trying to talk to Mr. Mason , when a sound startled us . 
It was the sound of swift hoof beats on the soft drive . 
Mrs. Temple got up , an unusual thing . 
Perchance she was expecting a message from some of the gentlemen or else she may well have been tired of Mr. Mason . 
Nick and I were before her , and , running through the house , arrived at the portico in time to see a negro ride up on a horse covered with lather . 
It was the same negro who had fetched me hither from Mr. Lowndes . 
And when I saw him my heart stood still lest he had brought news of my father . 
What's to do , boy ? '' cried Nicholas to him . 
The boy held in his hand a letter with a great red seal . 
Fo' Mistis Temple , '' he said , and , looking at me queerly , he took off his cap as he jumped from the horse . 
Mistress Temple herself having arrived , he handed her the letter . 
She took it , and broke the seal carelessly . 
Oh , '' she said , it's only from Mr. Lowndes . 
I wonder what he wishes now . 
'' Every moment of her reading was for me an agony , and she read slowly . 
The last words she spoke aloud If you do not wish the lad , send him to me , as Kate is very fond of him . 
So Kate is very fond of him , '' she repeated . 
And handing the letter to Mr. Mason , she added , Tell him , Parson . 
'' The words burned into my soul and seared it . 
And to this day I tremble with anger as I think of them . 
David , '' said he , in a thick voice , you are a brave boy , David . 
You will need all your courage now , my son . 
The rest of the company had cut their way through and reached the settlements after terrible hardships . 
I was left an orphan . 
I shall not dwell here on the bitterness of those moments . 
We have all known sorrows in our lives , great sorrows . 
The clergyman was a wise man , and did not strive to comfort me with words . 
Then he led me through the drenching rain into the house , nor heeded the wet himself on his Sunday coat . 
A great anger stayed me in my sorrow . 
I would no longer tarry under Mrs. Temple's roof , though the world without were a sea or a desert . 
The one resolution to escape rose stronger and stronger within me , and I determined neither to eat nor sleep until I had got away . 
Davy , '' he said passionately , Davy , you mustn't mind what she says . 
She never means anything she says she never cares for anything save her pleasure . 
You and I will stay here until we are old enough to run away to Kentucky . 
Davy ! Answer me , Davy ! '' I could not , try as I would . 
There were no words that would come with honesty . 
In the lightning flashes I saw Nick's face , and it haunted me afterwards through many years of wandering . 
On it was written a sorrow for me greater than my own sorrow . 
For God had given to this lad every human passion and compassion . 
The storm rolled away with the night , and Mammy came through the hall with a candle . 
Whah is you , Marse Nick ? Whah is you , honey ? You' suppah's ready . 
'' And so we went into our little dining room , but I would not eat . 
The good old negress brushed her eyes with her apron as she pressed a cake upon me she had made herself , for she had grown fond of me . 
And presently we went away silently to bed . 
It was a long , long time before Nick's breathing told me that he was asleep . 
He held me tightly clutched to him , and I know that he feared I would leave him . 
The thought of going broke my heart , but I never once wavered in my resolve , and I lay staring into the darkness , pondering what to do . 
I thought of good Mr. Lowndes and his wife , and I decided to go to Charlestown . 
Yes , I would go to Mr. Lowndes , and ask him to let me work for him and so earn my education . 
With a heavy spirit I crept out of bed , slowly disengaging Nick's arm lest he should wake . 
He turned over and sighed in his sleep . 
Then I climbed carefully out of the window , and so down the corner of the house to the ground . 
It was starlight , and a waning moon hung in the sky . 
I made my way through the drive between the black shadows of the forest , and came at length to the big gates at the entrance , locked for the night . 
I had been alone in the mountains before . 
I have crossed great strips of wilderness since , but always there was love to go back to . 
Then I was leaving the only being in the world that remained to me . 
As I lingered a light began to tremble in the heavens . 
A cock crew in the distance . 
I sat down on a fallen log to rest . 
But presently , as the light grew , I heard shouts which drew nearer and deeper and brought me to my feet in an uncertainty of expectation . 
Next came the rattling of chains , the scramble of hoofs in the mire , and here was a wagon with a big canvas cover . 
Beside the straining horses was a great , burly man with a red beard , cracking his long whip , and calling to the horses in a strange tongue . 
He stopped still beside his panting animals when he saw me , his high boots sunk in the mud . 
Gut morning , poy , '' he said , wiping his red face with his sleeve what you do here ? '' I am going to Charlestown , '' I answered . 
Ach ! '' he cried , dot is pad . 
Mein poy , he run avay . 
You are ein gut poy , I know . 
I vill pay ein gut price to help me vit mein wagon ja . 
'' Where are you going ? '' I demanded , with a sudden wavering . 
You know der Proad River yes ? '' No , I did not . 
And I had a desire , even at that age , to make my own way in the world . 
What will you give me ? '' I asked . 
At that he put his finger to his nose . 
'' I shook my head . 
He looked at me queerly . 
How old you pe , twelve , yes ? '' Now I had no notion of telling him . 
So I said Is this the Charlestown road ? '' Fourpence ! '' he cried , dot is riches . 
'' I will go for sixpence , '' I answered . 
Mein Gott ! '' he cried , sixpence . 
'' But seeing me obdurate , he added I vill give it , because ein poy I must have . 
Vat is your name , Tavid ? You are ein sharp poy , Tavid . 
'' And so I went with him . 
In writing a biography , the relative value of days and years should hold . 
There are days which count in space for years , and years for days . 
I spent the time on the whole happily with this Dutchman , whose name was Hans Koppel . 
He talked merrily save when he spoke of the war against England , and then contemptuously , for he was a bitter English partisan . 
And you were there , Hans ? '' I asked him once . 
Ja , '' he said , but I did not stay . 
'' You ran away ? '' Ja , '' Hans would answer , laughing , run avay . 
I love peace , Tavid . 
Dot is vy I come here , and now , '' bitterly , and now ve haf var again once . 
Travelling with incredible slowness , in due time we came to a county called Orangeburg , where all were Dutchmen like Hans , and very few spoke English . 
And they all thought like Hans , and loved peace , and hated the Congress . 
At such times Hans would be drunk , and I would have to feed the tired horses and mount watch over the cargo . 
I had many adventures , but none worth the telling here . 
And at length we came to Hans's farm , in a prettily rolling country on the Broad River . 
Hans's wife spoke no English at all , nor did the brood of children running about the house . 
And I could at least have guided his plough in the furrow and cared for his cattle . 
It was the first money I had earned in my life , and a prouder day than many I have had since . 
For the convenience of travellers passing that way , Hans kept a tavern , if it could have been dignified by such a name . 
It was in truth merely a log house with shakedowns , and stood across the rude road from his log farmhouse . 
And he gave me leave to sleep there and to work for my board until I cared to leave . 
You damned Dutchmen be all Tories , and worse , '' he cried you stay here and till your farms while our boys are off in the hill towns fighting Cherokees . 
I wish the devils had every one of your fat sculps . 
Polly Ann , water the nags . 
'' Hans replied to this sally with great vigor , lapsing into Dutch . 
Polly Ann led the scrawny ponies to the trough , but her eyes snapped with merriment as she listened . 
She was a wonderfully comely lass , despite her loose cotton gown and poke bonnet and the shoepacks on her feet . 
She had blue eyes , the whitest , strongest of teeth , and the rosiest of faces . 
Gran'pa hates a Dutchman wuss'n pizen , '' she said to me . 
So do I. We've all been burned out and sculped up river and they never give us so much as a man or a measure of corn . 
'' I helped her feed the animals , and tether them , and loose their bells for the night , and carry the packs under cover . 
All the boys is gone to join Rutherford and lam the Indians , '' she continued , so Gran'pa and I had to go to the settlements . 
There wahn't any one else . 
What's your name ? '' she demanded suddenly . 
She sat down on a log at the corner of the house , and pulled me down beside her . 
And whar be you from ? '' I told her . 
It was impossible to look into her face and not tell her . 
She listened eagerly , now with compassion , and now showing her white teeth in amusement . 
And when I had done , much to my discomfiture , she seized me in her strong arms and kissed me . 
Poor Davy , '' she cried , you ain't got a home . 
You shall come home with us . 
I looked for another and mightier explosion from the old backwoodsman , but to my astonishment he seemed to forget Hans's existence , and turned and smiled on her benevolently . 
'' All right , David , '' answered Mr. Ripley , mildly , ef Polly Ann says so , you kin come . 
Whar was you raised ? '' I told him on the upper Yadkin . 
You don't tell me , '' said he . 
Did ye ever know Dan'l Boone ? '' I did , indeed , sir , '' I answered , my face lighting up . 
Can you tell me where he is now ? '' He's gone to Kaintuckee , them new settlements , fer good . 
And ef I wasn't eighty years old , I'd go thar , too . 
'' I reckon I'll go thar when I'm married , '' said Polly Ann , and blushed redder than ever . 
Drawing me to her , she said , I'll take you , too , Davy . 
'' When you marry that wuthless Tom McChesney , '' said her grandfather , testily . 
He's not wuthless , '' said Polly , hotly . 
he's the best man in Rutherford's army . 
He'll git more sculps then any of 'em , you see . 
'' Tavy is ein gut poy , '' Hans put in , for he had recovered his composure . 
I wish much he stay mit me . 
'' As for me , Polly Ann never consulted me on the subject nor had she need to . 
I would have followed her to kingdom come , and at the thought of reaching the mountains my heart leaped with joy . 
By daylight we had left Hans and his farm forever . 
I can see the lass now , as she strode along the trace by the flowing river , through sunlight and shadow , straight and supple and strong . 
Sometimes she sang like a bird , and the forest rang . 
She would wake from those reveries with a laugh , and give me a push to send me rolling down a bank . 
What's the matter , Davy ? You look as solemn as a wood owl . 
What a little wiseacre you be ! '' Once I retorted , You were thinking of that Tom McChesney . 
'' Ay , that she was , I'll warrant , '' snapped her grandfather . 
Polly Ann replied , with a merry peal of laughter , You are both jealous of Tom both of you . 
But , Davy , when you see him you'll love him as much as I do . 
'' I'll not , '' I said sturdily . 
He's a man to look upon '' He's a rip roarer , '' old man Ripley put in . 
'' That I am , '' said Polly , flushing and subsiding but he'll not know it . 
'' As we rose into the more rugged country we passed more than one charred cabin that told its silent story of Indian massacre . 
Only on the scattered hill farms women and boys and old men were working in the fields , all save the scalawags having gone to join Rutherford . 
He must have been an escaped redemptioner , for he wore jauntily a swanskin three cornered hat and stained breeches of a fine cloth . 
He was a bold , vain fellow . 
My beauty , '' says he , as we sat at supper , silver and Wedgwood better become you than pewter and a trencher . 
'' And I reckon a rope would sit better on your neck than a ruff , '' retorted Polly Ann , while the company shouted with laughter . 
But he was not the kind to become discomfited . 
I'd give a guinea to see you in silk . 
But I vow your hair looks better as it is . 
'' Not so yours , '' said she , like lightning 'twould look better to me hanging on the belt of one of them red devils . 
In the morning , when he would have lifted the pack of alum salt , Polly Ann gave him a push that sent him sprawling . 
But she did it in such good nature withal that the fellow mistook her . 
He scrambled to his feet , flung his arm about her waist , and kissed her . 
Whereupon I hit him with a sapling , and he staggered and let her go . 
You imp of hell ! '' he cried , rubbing the bump . 
After that we were more devoted friends than ever . 
We travelled slowly , day by day , until I saw the mountains lift blue against the western sky , and the sight of them was like home once more . 
I loved them and though I thought with sadness of my father , I was on the whole happier with Polly Ann than I had been in the lonely cabin on the Yadkin . 
Her spirits flagged a little as she drew near home , but old Mr. Ripley's rose . 
There's Burr's , '' he would say , and O'Hara's and Williamson's , '' marking the cabins set amongst the stump dotted corn fields . 
And thar , '' sweeping his hand at a blackened heap of logs lying on the stones , thar's whar Nell Tyler and her baby was sculped . 
'' Poor Nell , '' said Polly Ann , the tears coming into her eyes as she turned away . 
And Jim Tyler was killed gittin' to the fort . 
He can't say I didn't warn him . 
'' I reckon he'll never say nuthin' , now , '' said Polly Ann . 
These same Indians had killed my father and there surged up in my breast that hatred of the painted race felt by every backwoods boy in my time . 
Towards the end of the day the trace led into a beautiful green valley , and in the middle of it was a stream shining in the afternoon sun . 
Then Polly Ann fell entirely silent . 
She stared at us so earnestly that I looked at Polly Ann , and saw her redden and pale . 
The children were the first to come shouting at us , and then the woman dropped her wool and ran down the slope straight into Polly Ann's arms . 
Mr. Ripley halted the horses with a grunt . 
The two women drew off and looked into each other's faces . 
Then Polly Ann dropped her eyes . 
Have ye ? '' she said , and stopped . 
No , Polly Ann , not one word sence Tom and his Pa went . 
What do folks say in the settlements ? '' Polly Ann turned up her nose . 
They don't know nuthin' in the settlements , '' she replied . 
I wrote to Tom and told him you was gone , '' said the older woman . 
I knowed he'd wanter hear . 
'' And she looked meaningly at Polly Ann , who said nothing . 
The children had been pulling at the girl's skirts , and suddenly she made a dash at them . 
They scattered , screaming with delight , and she after them . 
Howdy , Mr. Ripley ? '' said the woman , smiling a little . 
Howdy , Mis' McChesney ? '' said the old man , shortly . 
So this was the mother of Tom , of whom I had heard so much . 
She was , in truth , a motherly looking person , her fleshy face creased with strong character . 
Who hev ye brought with ye ? '' she asked , glancing at me . 
A lad Polly Ann took a shine to in the settlements , '' said the old man . 
Polly Ann ! Polly Ann ! '' he cried sharply , we'll hev to be gittin' home . 
, he added , How be ye for salt , Mis' McChesney ? '' So so , '' said she . 
Wal , I reckon a little might come handy , '' said he . 
And to the girl who stood panting beside him , Polly , give Mis' McChesney some salt . 
'' Polly Ann did , and generously , the salt they had carried with so much labor threescore and ten miles from the settlements . 
Then we took our departure , the girl turning for one last look at Tom's mother , and at the cabin where he had dwelt . 
We were all silent the rest of the way , climbing the slender trail through the forest over the gap into the next valley . 
For I was jealous of Tom . 
I am not ashamed to own it now . 
In the smoky haze that rises just before night lets her curtain fall , we descended the farther slope , and came to Mr. Ripley's cabin . 
CHAPTER VII IN SIGHT OF THE BLUE WALL ONCE MORE Polly Ann lived alone with her grandfather , her father and mother having been killed by Indians some years before . 
There was that bond between us , had we needed one . 
Her father had built the cabin , a large one with a loft and a ladder climbing to it , and a sleeping room and a kitchen . 
The cabin stood on a terrace that nature had levelled , looking across a swift and shallow stream towards the mountains . 
All around us the silent forest threw its encircling arms , spreading up the slopes , higher and higher , to crown the crests with the little pines and hemlocks and balsam fir . 
All day I waited , until the forest light grew gray , when a buck came and stood over the water , raising his head and stamping from time to time . 
Polly Ann gave a cry of joy when she saw me . 
Davy , '' she exclaimed , little Davy , I reckoned you was gone away from us . 
Gran'pa , here is Davy back , and he has shot a deer . 
'' You don't say ? '' replied Mr. Ripley , surveying me and my booty with a grim smile . 
How could you , Gran'pa ? '' said Polly Ann , reproachfully . 
Wal , '' said Mr. Ripley , the gun was gone , an' Davy . 
I reckon he ain't sich a little rascal after all . 
'' Polly Ann and I went up the next day , and brought the rest of the buck merrily homeward . 
After that I became the hunter of the family but oftener than not I returned tired and empty handed , and ravenously hungry . 
Indeed , our chief game was rattlesnakes , which we killed by the dozens in the corn and truck patches . 
As Polly Ann and I went about our daily chores , we would talk of Tom McChesney . 
Often she would sit idle at the hand mill , a light in her eyes that I would have given kingdoms for . 
It was Mr. McChesney , Tom's father alone . 
No , Polly Ann , '' he cried , there ain't nuthin' happened . 
We've laid out the hill towns . 
But the Virginna men wanted a guide , and Tom volunteered , and so he ain't come back with Rutherford's boys . 
'' Polly Ann seized him by the shoulders , and looked him in the face . 
Be you tellin' the truth , Warner McChesney ? '' she said in a hard voice . 
As God hears me , '' said Warner McChesney , solemnly . 
'' He drew from the bosom of his hunting shirt a soiled piece of birch bark , scrawled over with rude writing . 
Polly seized it , and flew into the house . 
The hickories turned a flaunting yellow , the oaks a copper red , the leaves crackled on the Catawba vines , and still Tom McChesney did not come . 
The Cherokees were homeless and houseless and subdued , their hill towns burned , their corn destroyed , their squaws and children wanderers . 
Yes , Tom had gone to guide the Virginia boys . 
All had tales to tell of his prowess , and how he had saved Rutherford's men from ambush at the risk of his life . 
To all of which Polly Ann listened with conscious pride , and replied with sallies . 
I reckon I don't care if he never comes back , '' she would cry . 
If he likes the Virginny boys more than me , there be others here I fancy more than him . 
'' Whereupon the informant , if he were not bound in matrimony , would begin to make eyes at Polly Ann . 
One windy morning when the leaves were kiting over the valley we were getting ready for pounding hominy , when a figure appeared on the trail . 
Polly Ann sat down at the block again in disgust . 
It's only Chauncey Dike , '' she said . 
Who's Chauncey Dike ? '' I asked . 
He reckons he's a buck , '' was all that Polly Ann vouchsafed . 
Chauncey drew near with a strut . 
He had very long black hair , a new coonskin cap with a long tassel , and a new blue fringed hunting shirt . 
What first caught my eye was a couple of withered Indian scalps that hung by their long locks from his girdle . 
Chauncey Dike was certainly handsome . 
Wal , Polly Ann , are ye tired of hanging out fer Tom ? '' he cried , when a dozen paces away . 
I wouldn't be if you was the only one left ter choose , '' Polly Ann retorted . 
Chauncey Dike stopped in his tracks and haw hawed with laughter . 
But I could see that he was not very much pleased . 
Wal , '' said he , I 'low ye won't see Tom very soon . 
'' Has he ? '' said Polly Ann , with brave indifference . 
He met a gal on the trail a blazin' fine gal , '' said Chauncey Dike . 
She was goin' to Kaintuckee . 
And Tom he 'lowed he'd go 'long . 
'' Polly Ann laughed , and fingered the withered pieces of skin at Chauncey's girdle . 
Did Tom give you them sculps ? '' she asked innocently . 
Who ? Tom McChesney ? I reckon he ain't got none to give . 
This here's from a big brave at Noewee , whar the Virginny boys was surprised . 
'' And he held up the one with the longest tuft . 
He'd liked to tomahawked me out'n the briers , but I throwed him fust . 
'' Shucks , '' said Polly Ann , pounding the corn , I reckon you found him dead . 
'' But that night , as we sat before the fading red of the backlog , the old man dozing in his chair , Polly Ann put her hand on mine . 
Davy , '' she said softly , do you reckon he's gone to Kaintuckee ? '' How could I tell ? The days passed . 
The wind grew colder , and one subdued dawn we awoke to find that the pines had fantastic white arms , and the stream ran black between white banks . 
All that day , and for many days after , the snow added silently to the thickness of its blanket , and winter was upon us . 
It was a long winter and a rare one . 
Polly Ann sat by the little window of the cabin , spinning the flax into linsey woolsey . 
And she made a hunting shirt for her grandfather , and another little one for me which she fitted with careful fingers . 
But as she spun , her wheel made the only music for Polly Ann sang no more . 
Once I came on her as she was thrusting the tattered piece of birch bark into her gown , but she never spoke to me more of Tom McChesney . 
When , from time to time , the snow melted on the hillsides , I sometimes surprised a deer there and shot him with the heavy rifle . 
And so the months wore on till spring . 
The buds reddened and popped , and the briers grew pink and white . 
Old Mr. Ripley grew querulous and savage and hard to please . 
, and the thought grew on me that I might make my way over the mountains into that land beyond , and find Tom for Polly Ann . 
I even climbed the watershed to the east as far as the O'Hara farm , to sound that big Irishman about the trail . 
For he had once gone to Kentucky , to come back with his scalp and little besides . 
But none went from the Grape Vine settlement that spring . 
War was a waging in Kentucky . 
The great Indian nations were making a frantic effort to drive from their hunting grounds the little bands of settlers there , and these were in sore straits . 
So I waited , and gave Polly Ann no hint of my intention . 
Sometimes she herself would slip away across the notch to see Mrs. McChesney and the children . 
There came a certain hot Sunday in July when she went on this errand , and Grandpa Ripley having gone to spend the day at old man Winn's , I was left alone . 
And wondering , likewise , what Polly Ann would do without me . 
I was cleaning the long rifle , a labor I loved , when suddenly I looked up , startled to see a man standing in front of me . 
How he got there I know not . 
He was a young man , very spare and very burned , with bright red hair and blue eyes that had a kind of laughter in them , and yet were sober . 
His buckskin hunting shirt was old and stained and frayed by the briers , and his leggins and moccasins were wet from fording the stream . 
He leaned his chin on the muzzle of his gun . 
Folks live here , sonny ? '' said he . 
Whar be they ? '' Out , '' said I. Comin' back ? '' he asked . 
To night , '' said I , and began to rub the lock . 
Be they good folks ? '' said he . 
Yes , '' I answered . 
Wal , '' said he , making a move to pass me , I reckon I'll slip in and take what I've a mind to , and move on . 
'' Now I liked the man's looks very much , but I did not know what he would do . 
So I got in his way and clutched the gun . 
It was loaded , but not primed , and I emptied a little powder from the flask in the pan . 
You're a good boy , sonny , '' he said . 
Do you reckon you could hit me if you shot ? '' Yes , '' I said . 
But I knew I could scarcely hold the gun out straight without a rest . 
And do you reckon I could hit you fust ? '' he asked . 
At that I laughed , and he laughed . 
What's your name ? '' I told him . 
Who do you love best in all the world ? '' said he . 
It was a queer question . 
But I told him Polly Ann Ripley . 
Oh ! '' said he , after a pause . 
And what's SHE like ? '' She's beautiful , '' I said she's been very kind to me . 
She took me home with her from the settlements when I had no place to go . 
'' And a sharp tongue , I reckon , '' said he . 
When people need it , '' I answered . 
Oh ! '' said he . 
And presently , She's very merry , I'll warrant . 
'' She used to be , but that's gone by , '' I said . 
Gone by ! '' said he , his voice falling , is she sick ? '' No , '' said I , she's not sick , she's sad . 
'' Sad ? '' said he . 
It was then I noticed that he had a cut across his temple , red and barely healed . 
For that was the rule of the border . 
He took them in great bites , but slowly , and he picked the bones clean . 
I had breakfast yesterday morning , '' said he , about forty mile from here . 
'' And nothing since ? '' said I , in astonishment . 
Fresh air and water and exercise , '' said he , and sat down on the grass . 
He was silent for a long while , and so was I. For a notion had struck me , though I hardly dared to give it voice . 
Are you going away ? '' I asked at last . 
Why ? '' said he . 
If you were going to Kaintuckee '' I began , and faltered . 
For he stared at me very hard . 
Kaintuckee ! '' he said . 
There's a country ! But it's full of blood and Injun varmints now . 
Would you leave Polly Ann and go to Kaintuckee ? '' Are you going ? '' I said . 
I reckon I am , '' he said , as soon as I kin . 
'' Will you take me ? '' I asked , breathless . 
I I won't be in your way , and I can walk and shoot game . 
At that he bent back his head and laughed , which made me redden with anger . 
Then he turned and looked at me more soberly . 
You're a queer little piece , '' said he . 
Why do you want to go thar ? '' I want to find Tom McChesney for Polly Ann , '' I said . 
He turned away his face . 
A good for nothing scamp , '' said he . 
I have long thought so , '' I said . 
It was a laugh that made me want to join him , had I not been irritated . 
And he's a scamp , you say . 
And why ? '' Else he would be coming back to Polly Ann . 
'' Mayhap he couldn't , '' said the stranger . 
Chauncey Dike said he went off with another girl into Kaintuckee . 
'' And what did Polly Ann say to that ? '' the stranger demanded . 
She asked Chauncey if Tom McChesney gave him the scalps he had on his belt . 
'' At that he laughed in good earnest , and slapped his breech clouts repeatedly . 
All at once he stopped , and stared up the ridge . 
Is that Polly Ann ? '' said he . 
I looked , and far up the trail was a speck . 
I reckon it is , '' I answered , and wondered at his eyesight . 
She travels over to see Tom McChesney's Ma once in a while . 
'' He looked at me queerly . 
I reckon I'll go here and sit down , Davy , '' said he , so's not to be in the way . 
'' And he walked around the corner of the house . 
Polly Ann sauntered down the trail slowly , as was her wont after such an occasion . 
And the man behind the house twice whispered with extreme caution , How near is she ? '' before she came up the path . 
Have you been lonesome , Davy ? '' she said . 
No , '' said I , I've had a visitor . 
'' It's not Chauncey Dike again ? '' she said . 
He doesn't dare show his face here . 
'' No , it wasn't Chauncey . 
This man would like to have seen you , Polly Ann . 
He '' here I braced myself , he knew Tom McChesney . 
He called him a good for nothing scamp . 
'' He did did he ! '' said Polly Ann , very low . 
I reckon it was good for him I wasn't here . 
What are you laughing at , you little monkey , '' said Polly Ann , crossly . 
'Pon my soul , sometimes I reckon you are a witch . 
You're the best friend I have , little Davy , '' she cried . 
I reckon that's so , '' said the stranger , who had risen and was standing at the corner . 
Polly Ann looked at him like a frightened doe . 
And as she stared , uncertain whether to stay or fly , the color surged into her cheeks and mounted to her fair forehead . 
Tom ! '' she faltered . 
I've come back , Polly Ann , '' said he . 
But his voice was not so clear as a while ago . 
Then Polly Ann surprised me . 
What made you come back ? '' said she , as though she didn't care a minkskin . 
Whereat Mr. McChesney shifted his feet . 
I reckon it was to fetch you , Polly Ann . 
'' I like that ! '' cried she . 
He's come to fetch me , Davy . 
'' That was the first time in months her laugh had sounded natural . 
I heerd you fetched one gal acrost the mountains , and now you want to fetch another . 
'' Polly Ann , '' says he , there was a time when you knew a truthful man from a liar . 
'' That time's past , '' retorted she I reckon all men are liars . 
What are ye tom foolin' about here for , Tom McChesney , when yere Ma's breakin' her heart ? I wonder ye come back at all . 
'' Polly Ann , '' says he , very serious , I ain't a boaster . 
But when I think what I come through to git here , I wonder that I come back at all . 
The folks shut up at Harrod's said it was sure death ter cross the mountains now . 
I've walked two hundred miles , and fed seven times , and my sculp's as near hangin' on a Red Stick's belt as I ever want it to be . 
'' Tom McChesney , '' said Polly Ann , with her hands on her hips and her sunbonnet tilted , that's the longest speech you ever made in your life . 
'' I declare I lost my temper with Polly Ann then , nor did I blame Tom McChesney for turning on his heel and walking away . 
But he had gone no distance at all before Polly Ann , with three springs , was at his shoulder . 
Tom ! '' she said very gently . 
He hesitated , stopped , thumped the stock of his gun on the ground , and wheeled . 
He looked at her doubtingly , and her eyes fell to the ground . 
Tom McChesney , '' said she , you're a born fool with wimmen . 
Thank God for that , '' said he , his eyes devouring her . 
Ay , '' said she . 
And then , You want me to go to Kaintuckee with you ? '' That's what I come for , '' he stammered , his assurance all run away again . 
I'll go , '' she answered , so gently that her words were all but blown away by the summer wind . 
He laid his rifle against a stump at the edge of the corn field , but she bounded clear of him . 
Then she stood , panting , her eyes sparkling . 
I'll go , '' she said , raising her finger , I'll go for one thing . 
'' What's that ? '' he demanded . 
That you'll take Davy along with us . 
'' This time Tom had her , struggling like a wild thing in his arms , and kissing her black hair madly . 
As for me , I might have been in the next settlement for all they cared . 
And then Polly Ann , as red as a holly berry , broke away from him and ran to me , caught me up , and hid her face in my shoulder . 
Tom McChesney stood looking at us , grinning , and that day I ceased to hate him . 
There's no devil ef I don't take him , Polly Ann , '' said he . 
Why , he was a goin' to Kaintuckee ter find me for you . 
'' What ? '' said she , raising her head . 
That's what he told me afore he knew who I was . 
He wanted to know ef I'd fetch him thar . 
'' Little Davy ! '' cried Polly Ann . 
The last I saw of them that day they were going off up the trace towards his mother's , Polly Ann keeping ahead of him and just out of his reach . 
And I was very , very happy . 
For Tom McChesney had come back at last , and Polly Ann was herself once more . 
As long as I live I shall never forget Polly Ann's wedding . 
She was all for delay , and such a bunch of coquetry as I have never seen . 
She raised one objection after another but Tom was a firm man , and his late experiences in the wilderness had made him impatient of trifling . 
He had promised the Kentucky settlers , fighting for their lives in their blockhouses , that he would come back again . 
And a resolute man who was a good shot was sorely missed in the country in those days . 
It was not the thousand dangers and hardships of the journey across the Wilderness Trail that frightened Polly Ann . 
Nor would she listen to Tom when he implored her to let him return alone , to come back for her when the redskins had got over the first furies of their hatred . 
As for me , the thought of going with them into that promised land was like wine . 
Wondering what the place was like , I could not sleep of nights . 
Ain't you afeerd to go , Davy ? '' said Tom to me . 
You promised Polly Ann to take me , '' said I , indignantly . 
Davy , '' said he , you ain't over handsome . 
'Twouldn't improve yere looks to be bald . 
They hev a way of takin' yere ha'r . 
Better stay behind with Gran'pa Ripley till I kin fetch ye both . 
'' Tom , '' said Polly Ann , you kin just go back alone if you don't take Davy . 
'' So one of the Winn boys agreed to come over to stay with old Mr. Ripley until quieter times . 
The preparations for the wedding went on apace that week . 
I had not thought that the Grape Vine settlement held so many people . 
And they came from other settlements , too , for news spread quickly in that country , despite the distances . 
Tom McChesney was plainly a favorite with the men who had marched with Rutherford . 
All the week they came , loaded with offerings , turkeys and venison and pork and bear meat greatest delicacy of all until the cool spring was filled for the feast . 
From thirty miles down the Broad , a gaunt Baptist preacher on a fat white pony arrived the night before . 
He had been sent for to tie the knot . 
Polly Ann's wedding day dawned bright and fair , and long before the sun glistened on the corn tassels we were up and clearing out the big room . 
The fiddlers came first a merry lot . 
And then the guests from afar began to arrive . 
Some of them had travelled half the night . 
The bridegroom's friends were assembling at the McChesney place . 
At last , when the sun was over the stream , rose such Indian war whoops and shots from the ridge trail as made me think the redskins were upon us . 
We scattered to right and left . 
It was Chauncey Dike , and he had won the race for the bottle of Black Betty , '' Chauncey Dike , his long , black hair shining with bear's oil . 
Amid the cheers of the bride's friends he leaped from his saddle , mounted a stump and , flapping his arms , crowed in victory . 
Nor had Chauncey Dike forgotten the scalp of the brave who leaped at him out of the briers at Neowee . 
Polly Ann was radiant in a white linen gown , woven and sewed by her own hands . 
Peeping out from under it were the little blue beaded moccasins which Tom himself had brought across the mountains in the bosom of his hunting shirt . 
The assembly fell solemn , and not a sound was heard save the breathing of Nature in the heyday of her time . 
And though I was happy , the sobs rose in my throat . 
God had truly made that couple for wedlock in His leafy temple . 
The deep toned words of the preacher in prayer broke the stillness . 
They were made man and wife . 
And then began a day of merriment , of unrestraint , such as the backwoods alone knows . 
There was no stint , either , of maple beer and rum and Black Betty , '' and toasts to the bride and groom amidst gusts of laughter that they might populate Kaintuckee . 
'' And Polly Ann would have it that I should sit by her side under the maple . 
The fiddlers played , and there were foot races and shooting matches . 
Tom McChesney himself was in most of them , a hot favorite . 
so hard that the backwoods dandy lay for a moment in sleep . 
Contrary to the custom of many , Tom was not in the habit of crowing on such occasions , nor did he even smile as he helped Chauncey to his feet . 
But Polly Ann knew , and I knew , that he was thinking of what Chauncey had said to her . 
So the long summer afternoon wore away into twilight , and the sun fell behind the blue ridges we were to cross . 
For so it went in the backwoods in those days , and long after , and no harm in it that ever I could see . 
He gave the young men a pretty fight indeed , and long before they had him conquered the elder guests had made their escape through door and window . 
All night the reels and jigs went on , and the feasting and drinking too . 
In the fine rain that came at dawn to hide the crests , the company rode wearily homeward through the notches . 
CHAPTER VIII THE NOLLICHUCKY TRACE Some to endure , and many to quail , Some to conquer , and many to fail , Toiling over the Wilderness Trail . 
As long as I live I shall never forget the morning we started on our journey across the Blue Wall . 
Before the sun chased away the filmy veil of mist from the brooks in the valley , the McChesneys , father , mother , and children , were gathered to see us depart . 
And as they helped us to tighten the packsaddles Tom himself had made from chosen tree forks , they did not cease lamenting that we were going to certain death . 
Our scrawny horses splashed across the stream , and we turned to see a gaunt and lonely figure standing apart against the sun , stern and sorrowful . 
We waved our hands , and set our faces towards Kaintuckee . 
I triumphantly carried the axe . 
It was not long before we were in the wilderness , shut in by mountain crags , and presently Polly Ann forgot her sorrows in the perils of the trace . 
Choked by briers and grapevines , blocked by sliding stones and earth , it rose and rose through the heat and burden of the day until it lost itself in the open heights . 
As the sun was wearing down to the western ridges the mischievous sorrel mare turned her pack on a sapling , and one of the precious bags burst . 
In an instant we were on our knees gathering the golden meal in our hands . 
Was there ever sech a wedding journey ! '' said Polly Ann , as we sat about the fire , for the mountain air was chill . 
And Tom and Davy as grave as parsons . 
Ye'd guess one of you was Rutherford himself , and the other Mr. Boone . 
'' No wonder he was grave . 
But now he smiled , and patted Polly Ann's brown hand . 
It's one of yer own choosing , lass , '' said he . 
Of my own choosing ! '' cried she . 
Come , Davy , we'll go back to Grandpa . 
I reckon the redskins won't bother us till we git by the Nollichucky and Watauga settlements , '' he said . 
The redskins ! '' said Polly Ann , indignant I reckon if one of 'em did git me he'd kiss me once in a while . 
'' Whereupon Tom , looking more sheepish still , tried to kiss her , and failed ignominiously , for she vanished into the dark woods . 
If a redskin got you here , '' said Tom , when she had slipped back , he'd fetch you to Nick a jack Cave . 
'' What's that ? '' she demanded . 
Where all the red and white and yellow scalawags over the mountains is gathered , '' he answered . 
The river was the Tennessee , and the place the resort of the Chickamauga bandits , pirates of the mountains , outcasts of all nations . 
And Dragging Canoe was their chief . 
It was on the whole a merry journey , the first part of it , if a rough one . 
Often Polly Ann would draw me to her and whisper We'll hold out , Davy . 
'' When the truth was that the big fellow was going at half his pace on our account . 
Turn about's fair , '' I expostulated . 
Ye'll need yere sleep , Davy , '' said he , or ye'll never grow any bigger . 
I thought Kaintuckee was to the west , '' I said , and you're making north . 
'' For I had observed him day after day . 
We had left the trails . 
North ! '' said Tom to Polly Ann , laughing . 
The little devil will beat me at woodcraft soon . 
Ay , north , Davy . 
I'm hunting for the Nollichucky Trace that leads to the Watauga settlement . 
'' It was wonderful to me how he chose his way through the mountains . 
Once in a while we caught sight of a yellow blaze in a tree , made by himself scarce a month gone , when he came southward alone to fetch Polly Ann . 
Again , the tired roan shied back from the bleached bones of a traveller , picked clean by wolves . 
Davy'll take care of you , Polly Ann , '' he would say as he left us . 
And she would smile at him bravely and say , I reckon I kin look out for Davy awhile yet . 
'' But when he was gone , and the crooning stillness set in broken only by the many sounds of the night , we would sit huddled together by the fire . 
It was dread for him she felt , not for herself . 
And in both our minds rose red images of hideous foes skulking behind his brave form as he trod the forest floor . 
Polly Ann was not the woman to whimper . 
And yet I have but dim recollections of this journey . 
It was no hardship to a lad brought up in woodcraft . 
Fear of the Indians , like a dog shivering with the cold , was a deadened pain on the border . 
Strangely enough it was I who chanced upon the Nollichucky Trace , which follows the meanderings of that river northward through the great Smoky Mountains . 
It was made long ago by the Southern Indians as they threaded their way to the Hunting Lands of Kaintuckee , and shared now by Indian traders . 
The path was redolent with odors , and bright with mountain shrubs and flowers , the pink laurel bush , the shining rhododendron , and the grape and plum and wild crab . 
High above us , as we descended , the gap , from naked crag to timber covered ridge , was spanned by the eagle's flight . 
It was perchance the next evening that my eyes fell upon a sight which is one of the wonders of my boyish memories . 
The trail slipped to the edge of a precipice , and at our feet the valley widened . 
and from its wide stone chimneys the pearly smoke rose upward in the still air through the poplar branches . 
Beyond it a setting sun gilded the corn fields , and horses and cattle dotted the pastures . 
We stood for a while staring at this oasis in the wilderness , and to my boyish fancy it was a fitting introduction to a delectable land . 
Glory be to heaven ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann . 
It's Nollichucky Jack's house , '' said Tom . 
And who may he be ? '' said she . 
Who may he be ! '' cried Tom Captain John Sevier , king of the border , and I reckon the best man to sweep out redskins in the Watauga settlements . 
'' Do you know him ? '' said she . 
I was chose as one of his scouts when we fired the Cherokee hill towns last summer , '' said Tom , with pride . 
We didn't harm the squaws nor the children , but there warn't no prisoners took . 
When Nollichucky Jack strikes I reckon it's more like a thunderbolt nor anything else . 
'' Do you think he's at home , Tom ? '' I asked , fearful that I should not see this celebrated person . 
We'll soon l'arn , '' said he , as we descended . 
I heerd he was agoin' to punish them Chickamauga robbers by Nick a jack . 
'' Just then we heard a prodigious barking , and a dozen hounds came charging down the path at our horses' legs , the roan shying into the truck patch . 
His face , his carriage , his quick movement and stride filled my notion of a hero , and my instinct told me he was a gentleman born . 
Captain Sevier fixed his dark blue eyes on Polly Ann with approbation , and he bowed to her very gracefully . 
Where are you going , Ma'am , may I ask ? '' he said . 
To Kaintuckee , '' said Polly Ann . 
To Kaintuckee ! '' cried Captain Sevier , turning to Tom . 
Egad , then , you've no right to a wife , and to such a wife , '' and he glanced again at Polly Ann . 
Why , McChesney , you never struck me as a rash man . 
Have you lost your senses , to take a woman into Kentucky this year ? '' So the forts be still in trouble ? '' said Tom . 
Trouble ? '' cried Mr. Sevier , with a quick fling of his whip at an unruly hound , Harrodstown , Boonesboro , Logan's Fort at St . 
Asaph's , they don't dare stick their noses outside the stockades . 
The Indians have swarmed into Kentucky like red ants , I tell you . 
Ten days ago , when I was in the Holston settlements , Major Ben Logan came in . 
His fort had been shut up since May , they were out of powder and lead , and somebody had to come . 
'' And he swung again towards Polly Ann . 
You'll not go to Kaintuckee , ma'am you'll stay here with us until the redskins are beaten off there . 
He may go if he likes . 
'' I reckon we didn't come this far to give out , Captain Sevier , '' said she . 
You don't look to be the kind to give out , Mrs. McChesney , '' said he . 
And yet it may not be a matter of giving out , '' he added more soberly . 
This mixture of heartiness and gravity seemed to sit well on him . 
Surely you have been enterprising , Tom . 
Where in the name of the Continental Congress did you get the lad ? '' I married him along with Polly Ann , '' said Tom . 
That was the bargain , and I reckon he was worth it . 
'' I'd take a dozen to get her , '' declared Mr. Sevier , while Polly Ann blushed . 
Well , well , supper's waiting us , and cider and applejack , for we don't get a wedding party every day . 
Some gentlemen are here whose word may have more weight and whose attractions may be greater than mine . 
'' He whistled to a negro lad , who took our horses , and led us through the court yard and the house to the lawn at the far side of it . 
A rude table was set there under a great tree , and around it three gentlemen were talking . 
My memory of all of them is more vivid than it might be were their names not household words in the Western country . 
My friends , '' said he , if you have despatches for Kaintuckee , I pray you get them ready over night . 
'' They looked up at him , one sternly , the other two gravely . 
What the devil do you mean , Sevier ? '' said the stern one . 
That my friend , Tom McChesney , is going there with his wife , unless we can stop him , '' said Sevier . 
Stop him ! '' thundered the stern gentleman , kicking back his chair and straightening up to what seemed to me a colossal height . 
I stared at him , boylike . 
He had long , iron gray hair and a creased , fleshy face and sunken eyes . 
He looked as if he might stop anybody as he turned upon Tom . 
Who the devil is this Tom McChesney ? '' he demanded . 
The best scout I ever laid eyes on , '' said he . 
, and a fool to run the risk of losing her . 
'' If he leaves me , said Polly Ann , her eyes flashing , that's an end to the bargain . 
He'll never find me more . 
'' Captain Sevier laughed again . 
There's spirit for you , '' he cried , slapping his whip against his boot . 
At this another gentleman stood up , a younger counterpart of the first , only he towered higher and his shoulders were broader . 
He had a big featured face , and pleasant eyes that twinkled now sunken in , with fleshy creases at the corners . 
Tom McChesney , '' said he , don't mind my father . 
If any man besides Logan can get inside the forts , you can . 
Do you remember me ? '' I reckon I do , Mr. Isaac Shelby , '' said Tom , putting a big hand into Mr. Shelby's bigger one . 
I reckon I won't soon forget how you stepped out of ranks and tuk command when the boys was runnin' , and turned the tide . 
'' He looked like the man to step out of ranks and take command . 
Not by anything he said , for he remained silent , sitting with his dark brown head bent forward , quietly gazing at the scene from under his brows . 
The instant he spoke they turned towards him . 
He was perhaps forty , and broad shouldered , not so tall as Mr. Sevier . 
Why do you go to Kaintuckee , McChesney ? '' he asked . 
I give my word to Mr. Harrod and Mr. Clark to come back , Mr. Robertson , '' said Tom . 
And the wife ? If you take her , you run a great risk of losing her . 
'' And if he leaves me , '' said Polly Ann , flinging her head , he will lose me sure . 
'' The others laughed , but Mr. Robertson merely smiled . 
Faith , '' cried Captain Sevier , if those I met coming back helter skelter over the Wilderness Trace had been of that stripe , they'd have more men in the forts now . 
'' With that the Captain called for supper to be served where we sat . 
He was a widower , with lads somewhere near my own age , and I recall being shown about the place by them . 
And later , when the fireflies glowed and the Nollichucky sang in the darkness , we listened to the talk of the war of the year gone by . 
I needed not to be told that before me were the renowned leaders of the Watauga settlements . 
My hero worship cried it aloud within me . 
These captains dwelt on the border land of mystery , conquered the wilderness , and drove before them its savage tribes by their might . 
When they spoke of the Cherokees and told how that same Stuart the companion of Cameron was urging them to war against our people , a fierce anger blazed within me . 
For the Cherokees had killed my father . 
Him I loved , and at length I solved the puzzle . 
And finally , when they asked him , he spoke of making through Carter's Valley for Cumberland Gap and the Wilderness Trail . 
Egad , '' cried Captain Sevier , I have so many times found the boldest plan the safest that I have become a coward that way . 
What do you say to it , Mr. Robertson ? '' Mr. Robertson leaned his square shoulders over the table . 
He may fall in with a party going over , '' he answered , without looking up . 
Polly Ann looked at Tom as if to say that the whole Continental Army could not give her as much protection . 
And soon we had passed beyond the corn field into the Wilderness again . 
It led , indeed , northeast between the mountain ranges . 
I have since racked my brain to remember at whose cabin we stopped there . 
He was a rough backwoodsman with a wife and a horde of children . 
But I recall that a great rain came out of the mountains and down the valley . 
We were counting over the powder gourds in our packs , when there burst in at the door as wild a man as has ever been my lot to see . 
His brown beard was grown like a bramble patch , his eye had a violet light , and his hunting shirt was in tatters . 
Whar be ye from ? '' asked Tom . 
They killed Sue , '' he cried , sculped her afore my very eyes . 
And they chopped my boy outen the hickory withes and carried him to the Creek Nation . 
Go back ! '' he shouted , I'll go back and fight 'em while I have blood in my body . 
'' He fell into a bunk , but his sorrow haunted him even in his troubled sleep , and his moans awed us as we listened . 
The next day he told us his story with more calmness . 
It was horrible indeed , and might well have frightened a less courageous woman than Polly Ann . 
Imploring her not to go , he became wild again , and brought tears to her eyes when he spoke of his own wife . 
They tomahawked her , ma'am , because she could not walk , and the baby beside her , and I standing by with my arms tied . 
'' As long as I live I shall never forget that scene , and how Tom pleaded with Polly Ann to stay behind , but she would not listen to him . 
You're going , Tom ? '' she said . 
Yes , '' he answered , turning away , I gave 'em my word . 
'' And your word to me ? '' said Polly Ann . 
We fixed on a Saturday to start , to give the horses time to rest , and in the hope that we might hear of some relief party going over the Gap . 
On Thursday Tom made a trip to the store in the valley , and came back with a Deckard rifle he had bought for the stranger , whose name was Weldon . 
There was no news from Kaintuckee , but the Carter's Valley settlers seemed to think that matters were better there . 
It was that same night , I believe , that two men arrived from Fort Chiswell . 
One , whose name was Cutcheon , was a little man with a short forehead and a bad eye , and he wore a weather beaten blue coat of military cut . 
The second was a big , light colored , fleshy man , and a loud talker . 
He wore a hunting shirt and leggings . 
They were both the worse for rum they had had on the road , the big man talking very loud and boastfully . 
Afeard to go to Kaintuckee ! '' said he . 
I've met a parcel o' cowards on the road , turned back . 
There ain't nothin' to be afeard of , eh , stranger ? '' he added , to Tom , who paid no manner of attention to him . 
The small man scarce opened his mouth , but sat with his head bowed forward on his breast when he was not drinking . 
We passed a dismal , crowded night in the room with such companions . 
When they heard that we were to go over the mountains , nothing would satisfy the big man but to go with us . 
Come , stranger , '' said he to Tom , two good rifles such as we is ain't to be throwed away . 
'' Why do you want to go over ? '' asked Tom . 
Be ye a Tory ? '' he demanded suspiciously . 
Why do you go over ? '' retorted Riley , for that was his name . 
I reckon I'm no more of a Tory than you . 
'' Whar did ye come from ? '' said Tom . 
Chiswell's mines , taking out lead for the army o' Congress . 
But there ain't excitement enough in it . 
'' And you ? '' said Tom , turning to Cutcheon and eying his military coat . 
I got tired of their damned discipline , '' the man answered surlily . 
Look you , '' said Tom , sternly , if you come , what I say is law . 
'' Such was the sacrifice we were put to by our need of company . 
But in those days a man was a man , and scarce enough on the Wilderness Trail in that year of . 
So we started away from Carter's Valley on a bright Saturday morning , the grass glistening after a week's rain , the road sodden , and the smell of the summer earth heavy . 
Tom and Weldon walked ahead , driving the two horses , followed by Cutcheon , his head dropped between his shoulders . 
The big man , Riley , regaled Polly Ann . 
My pluck is , '' said he , my pluck is to give a redskin no chance . 
Shoot 'em down like hogs . 
It takes a good un to stalk me , Ma'am . 
Up on the Kanawha I've had hand to hand fights with 'em , and made 'em cry quits . 
'' Law ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann , nudging me , it was a lucky thing we run into you in the valley . 
'' But presently we left the road and took a mountain trail , as stiff a climb as we had yet had . 
Polly Ann went up it like a bird , talking all the while to Riley , who blew like a bellows . 
For once he was silent . 
We spent two , perchance three , days climbing and descending and fording . 
At night Tom would suffer none to watch save Weldon and himself , not trusting Riley or Cutcheon . 
And the rascals were well content to sleep . 
At length we came , to a cabin on a creek , the corn between the stumps around it choked with weeds , and no sign of smoke in the chimney . 
Behind it slanted up , in giant steps , a forest clad hill of a thousand feet , and in front of it the stream was dammed and lined with cane . 
Who keeps house ? '' cried Tom , at the threshold . 
He pushed back the door , fashioned in one great slab from a forest tree . 
His welcome was an angry whir , and a huge yellow rattler lay coiled within , his head reared to strike . 
Mercy , '' she cried , that's a bad sign . 
'' But Tom killed the snake , and we made ready to use the cabin that night and the next day . 
For the horses were to be rested and meat was to be got , as we could not use our guns so freely on the far side of Cumberland Gap . 
In the morning , before he and Weldon left , Tom took me around the end of the cabin . 
Davy , '' said he , I don't trust these rascals . 
Kin you shoot a pistol ? '' I reckoned I could . 
He had taken one out of the pack he had got from Captain Sevier and pushed it between the logs where the clay had fallen out . 
If they try anything , '' said he , shoot 'em . 
And don't be afeard of killing 'em . 
'' He patted me on the back , and went off up the slope with Weldon . 
Polly Ann and I stood watching them until they were out of sight . 
About eleven o'clock Riley and Cutcheon moved off to the edge of a cane brake near the water , and sat there for a while , talking in low tones . 
The horses were belled and spancelled near by , feeding on the cane and wild grass , and Polly Ann was cooking journey cakes on a stone . 
What makes you so sober , Davy ? '' she said . 
Davy , '' she cried , be happy while you're young . 
'Tis a fine day , and Kaintuckee's over yonder . 
'' She picked up her skirts and sang First upon the heeltap , Then upon the toe . 
'' The men by the cane brake turned and came towards us . 
Ye're happy to day , Mis' McChesney , '' said Riley . 
Why shouldn't I be ? '' said Polly Ann we're all a goin' to Kaintuckee . 
'' We're a goin' back to Cyarter's Valley , '' said Riley , in his blustering way . 
This here ain't as excitin' as I thought . 
I reckon there ain't no redskins nohow . 
'' What ! '' cried Polly Ann , in loud scorn , ye're a goin' to desert ? There'll be redskins enough by and by , I'll warrant ye . 
'' How'd you like to come along of us , '' says Riley that ain't any place for wimmen , over yonder . 
'' Along of you ! '' cried Polly Ann , with flashing eyes . 
Do you hear that , Davy ? '' I did . 
Meanwhile the man Cutcheon was slowly walking towards her . 
It took scarce a second for me to make up my mind . 
They did not so much as glance at me . 
Riley held a little back of the two , being the coward . 
But Cutcheon stood ready , like a wolf . 
I did not wait for him to spring , but , taking the best aim I could with my two hands , fired . 
With a curse that echoed in the crags , he threw up his arms and fell forward , writhing , on the turf . 
Run for the cabin , Polly Ann , '' I shouted , and bar the door . 
'' There was no need . 
For an instant Riley wavered , and then fled to the cane . 
Polly Ann and I went to the man on the ground , and turned him over . 
There was a bloody froth on his lips . 
Davy ! '' cried she , awestricken , Davy , ye've killed him ! '' I grew dizzy and sick at the thought , but she caught me and held me to her . 
Presently we sat down on the door log , gazing at the corpse . 
Then I began to reflect , and took out my powder gourd and loaded the pistol . 
What are ye a doing ? '' she said . 
In case the other one comes back , '' said I. Pooh , '' said Polly Ann , he'll not come back . 
I have never laid eyes on Riley to this day . 
I reckon we'd better fetch it out of the sun , '' said she , after a while . 
And so we dragged it under an oak , covered the face , and left it . 
He was the first man I ever killed , and the business by no means came natural to me . 
And that day the journey cakes which Polly Ann had made were untasted by us both . 
Try as we would , we could not get out of our minds the Thing that lay under the oak . 
It was near sundown when Tom and Weldon appeared on the mountain side carrying a buck between them . 
Tom glanced from one to the other of us keenly . 
He was very quick to divine . 
Whar be they ? '' said he . 
Show him , Davy , '' said Polly Ann . 
I took him over to the oak , and Polly Ann told him the story . 
He gave me one look , I remember , and there was more of gratitude in it than in a thousand words . 
Then he seized a piece of cold cake from the stone . 
Which trace did he take ? '' he demanded of me . 
But Polly Ann hung on his shoulder . 
Tom , Tom ! '' she cried , you beant goin' to leave us again . 
Tom , he'll die in the wilderness , and we must git to Kaintuckee . 
'' The next vivid thing in my memory is the view of the last barrier Nature had reared between us and the delectable country . 
It stood like a lion at the gateway , and for some minutes we gazed at it in terror from Powell's Valley below . 
Nothing in this life worth having is won for the asking and the best is fought for , and bled for , and died for . 
Written , too , upon that towering wall of white rock , in the handwriting of God Himself , is the history of the indomitable Race to which we belong . 
For fifty miles we travelled under it , towards the Gap , our eyes drawn to it by a resistless fascination . 
The sun went over it early in the day , as though glad to leave the place , and after that a dark scowl would settle there . 
At night we felt its presence , like a curse . 
Even Polly Ann was silent . 
And she had need to be now . 
When it was necessary , we talked in low tones , and the bell clappers on the horses were not loosed at night . 
It was here , but four years gone , that Daniel Boone's family was attacked , and his son killed by the Indians . 
And at last we struck the trace that mounted upward to the Gateway itself . 
CHAPTER IX ON THE WILDERNESS TRAIL And now we had our hands upon the latch , and God alone knew what was behind the gate . 
Toil , with a certainty , but our lives had known it . 
But Death had been near to all of us , and his presence did not frighten . 
As if to crown that judgment , the day was dark and lowering , with showers of rain from time to time . 
And when we spoke , Polly Ann and I , it was in whispers . 
The trace was very narrow , with Daniel Boone's blazes , two years old , upon the trees but the way was not over steep . 
Cumberland Mountain was as silent and deserted as when the first man had known it . 
Alas , for the vanity of human presage ! We gained the top , and entered unmolested . 
No Eden suddenly dazzled our eye , no splendor burst upon it . 
Nothing told us , as we halted in our weariness , that we had reached the Promised Land . 
The mists weighed heavily on the evergreens of the slopes and hid the ridges , and we passed that night in cold discomfort . 
It was the first of many without a fire . 
We bound the logs together with grapevines , and as we worked my imagination painted for me many a red face peering from the bushes on the farther shore . 
And when we got into the river and were caught and spun by the hurrying stream , I hearkened for a shot from the farther bank . 
While Polly Ann and I were scrambling to get the raft landed , Tom and Weldon swam over with the horses . 
And so we lay the second night dolefully in the rain . 
But not so much as a whimper escaped from Polly Ann . 
I have often told her since that the sorest trial she had was the guard she kept on her tongue , a hardship indeed for one of Irish inheritance . 
Many a pull had she lightened for us by a flash of humor . 
The next morning the sun relented , and the wine of his dawn was wine indeed to our flagging hopes . 
The next step revealed the hump of the beast , and the next his tasselled tail lashing his dirty brown quarters . 
I did not tarry longer , but ran to tell Tom . 
He made bold to risk a shot and light a fire , and thus we had buffalo meat for some days after . 
We were still in the mountains . 
The trail led down the river for a bit through the worst of canebrakes , and every now and again we stopped while Tom and Weldon scouted . 
There was nothing for it but to swim after her , which I did , and caught her quietly feeding in the cane on the other side . 
By great good fortune the other horse bore the powder . 
Drat you , Nancy , '' said Polly Ann to the mare , as she handed me my clothes , I'd sooner carry the pack myself than be bothered with you . 
'' Hush , '' said I , the redskins will get us . 
'' Polly Ann regarded me scornfully as I stood bedraggled before her . 
Redskins ! '' she cried . 
Nonsense ! I reckon it's all talk about redskins . 
'' But we had scarce caught up ere we saw Tom standing rigid with his hand raised . 
Before him , on a mound bared of cane , were the charred remains of a fire . 
The sight of them transformed Weldon . 
As for me , my heart hammered against my ribs , and I grew sick with listening . 
It was at that instant that my admiration for Tom McChesney burst bounds , and that I got some real inkling of what woodcraft might be . 
It seemed an age before he returned . 
Then he began to rake the ashes , and , suddenly bending down , seized something in them , the broken bowl of an Indian pipe . 
Shawnees ! '' he said I reckoned so . 
'' It was at length the beseeching in Polly Ann's eyes that he answered . 
A war party tracks three days old . 
'' To take poplar was our backwoods expression for embarking in a canoe , the dugouts being fashioned from the great poplar trees . 
I did not reflect then , as I have since and often , how great was the knowledge and resource Tom practised that day . 
fell little short of worship . 
In company ill at ease , in the forest he became silent and masterful an unerring woodsman , capable of meeting the Indian on his own footing . 
This was so of Andrew Jackson himself . 
I followed in boylike imitation , searching every thicket for alien form and color , and yearning for stature and responsibility . 
As for poor Weldon , he would stride for hours at a time with eyes fixed ahead , a wild figure , ragged and fringed . 
And we knew that the soul within him was torn with thoughts of his dead wife and of his child in captivity . 
Again , when the trance left him , he was an addition to our little party not to be despised . 
At dark Polly Ann and I carried the packs across a creek on a fallen tree , she taking one end and I the other . 
'Tis a hard journey , little girl , '' he said , patting her I reckon I done wrong to fetch you . 
Hark , Davy ! '' said Polly Ann , he's fair tired of us already . 
Davy , take me back . 
'' Hush , Polly Ann , '' he answered delighted at her raillery . 
But I've a word to say to you . 
If we come on to the redskins , you and Davy make for the cane as hard as you kin kilter . 
'' As hard as we kin kilter ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann , indignantly . 
I reckon not , Tom McChesney . 
Davy taught me to shoot long ago , afore you made up your mind to come back from Kaintuckee . 
So Davy taught you to shoot , '' he said , and checked himself . 
He ain't such a bad one with a pistol , '' and he patted me , but I allow ye'd better hunt kiver just the same . 
It wouldn't take me but a little time to run into Harrodstown or Boone's Station from here , and fetch a party to follow ye . 
'' Two days went by , two days of strain in sunlight , and of watching and fitful sleep in darkness . 
But the Wilderness Trail was deserted . 
Here and there a lean to silent remnant of the year gone by spoke of the little bands of emigrants which had once made their way so cheerfully to the new country . 
Again it was a child's doll , the rags of it beaten by the weather to a rusty hue . 
This was after we had ferried the Rockcastle River . 
Our trace rose and fell over height and valley , until we knew that we were come to a wonderland at last . 
We stood one evening on a spur as the setting sun flooded the natural park below us with a crystal light and , striking a tall sycamore , turned its green to gold . 
Here at last was the fairyland of my childhood , the country beyond the Blue Wall . 
Nature had made it for her park , ay , and scented it with her own perfumes . 
The plain near by was flecked with the brown backs of feeding buffalo , but we dared not stop , and pressed on to find a camp in the forest . 
Even Tom , intent upon the trail , turned and laughed at Polly Ann as she stood clutching me . 
Shucks , '' said he , they're only paroquets . 
'' We made our camp in a little dell where there was short green grass by the brookside and steep banks overgrown with brambles on either hand . 
Tom knew the place , and declared that we were within thirty miles of the station . 
A giant oak had blown down across the water , and , cutting out a few branches of this , we spread our blankets under it on the turf . 
Tethering our faithful beasts , and cutting a quantity of pea vine for their night's food , we lay down to sleep , Tom taking the first watch . 
I had the second , for Tom trusted me now , and glorying in that trust I was alert and vigilant . 
A shy moon peeped at me between the trees , and was fantastically reflected in the water . 
The creek rippled over the limestone , and an elk screamed in the forest far beyond . 
When at length I had called Weldon to take the third watch , I lay down with a sense of peace , soothed by the sweet odors of the night . 
I had been dreaming of Nick Temple and Temple Bow , and my father coming back to me there with a great gash in his shoulder like Weldon's . 
I lay for a moment dazed by the transition , staring through the gray light . 
Then I sat up , the soft stamping and snorting of the horses in my ears . 
The sorrel mare had her nose high , her tail twitching , but there was no other sound in the leafy wilderness . 
With a bound of returning sense I looked for Weldon . 
He had fallen asleep on the bank above , his body dropped across the trunk of the oak . 
I leaped on the trunk and made my way along it , stepping over him , until I reached and hid myself in the great roots of the tree on the bank above . 
The cold shiver of the dawn was in my body as I waited and listened . 
Should I wake Tom ? The vast forest was silent , and yet in its shadowy depths my imagination drew moving forms . 
The light grew the boles of the trees came out , one by one , through the purple . 
The tangled mass down the creek took on a shade of green , and a faint breath came from the southward . 
The sorrel mare sniffed it , and stamped . 
Then silence again , a long silence . 
Could it be that the cane moved in the thicket ? Or had my eyes deceived me ? I stared so hard that it seemed to rustle all over . 
Perhaps some deer were feeding there , for it was no unusual thing , when we rose in the morning , to hear the whistle of a startled doe near our camping ground . 
I was thoroughly frightened now , and yet I had the speculative Scotch mind . 
The thicket was some one hundred and fifty yards above , and on the flooded lands at a bend . 
If there were Indians in it , they could not see the sleeping forms of our party under me because of a bend in the stream . 
They might have seen me , though I had kept very still in the twisted roots of the oak , and now I was cramped . 
If Indians were there , they could determine our position well enough by the occasional stamping and snorting of the horses . 
And this made my fear more probable , for I had heard that horses and cattle often warned pioneers of the presence of redskins . 
If a large band , they would surround and overpower us . 
I drew the conclusion that it must be a small party if a party at all . 
And I would have given a shot in the arm to be able to see over the banks of the creek . 
Finally I decided to awake Tom . 
It was no easy matter to get down to where he was without being seen by eyes in the cane . 
I clung to the under branches of the oak , finally reached the shelving bank , and slid down slowly . 
I touched him on the shoulder . 
He awoke with a start , and by instinct seized the rifle lying beside him . 
What is it , Davy ? '' he whispered . 
I told what had happened and my surmise . 
He glanced then at the restless horses and nodded , pointing up at the sleeping figure of Weldon , in full sight on the log . 
The Indians must have seen him . 
Tom picked up the spare rifle . 
Davy , '' said he , you stay here beside Polly Ann , behind the oak . 
You kin shoot with a rest but don't shoot , '' said he , earnestly , for God's sake don't shoot unless you're sure to kill . 
For a moment he looked at the face of Polly Ann , sleeping peacefully , and the fierce light faded from his eyes . 
He brushed her on the cheek and she awoke and smiled at him , trustfully , lovingly . 
He put his finger to his lips . 
Stay with Davy , '' he said . 
Turning to me , he added When you wake Weldon , wake him easy . 
'' He put his hand in mine , and gradually tightened it . 
Wake him that way , and he won't jump . 
'' Polly Ann asked no questions . 
She looked at Tom , and her soul was in her face . 
She seized the pistol from the blanket . 
Then we watched him creeping down the creek on his belly , close to the bank . 
Next we moved behind the fallen tree , and I put my hand in Weldon's . 
He woke with a sigh , started , but we drew him down behind the log . 
Presently he climbed cautiously up the bank and took station in the muddy roots of the tree . 
Then we waited , watching Tom with a prayer in our hearts . 
Those who have not felt it know not the fearfulness of waiting for an Indian attack . 
At last Tom reached the bend in the bank , beside some red bud bushes , and there he stayed . 
A level shaft of light shot through the forest . 
The birds , twittering , awoke . 
A great hawk soared high in the blue over our heads . 
I had sighted the rifle among the yellow leaves of the fallen oak an hundred times . 
But Polly Ann looked not once to the right or left . 
Her eyes and her prayers followed the form of her husband . 
Then , like the cracking of a great drover's whip , a shot rang out in the stillness , and my hands tightened over the rifle stock . 
A piece of bark struck me in the face , and a dead leaf fluttered to the ground . 
Almost instantly there was another shot , and a blue wisp of smoke rose from the red bud bushes , where Tom was . 
The horses whinnied , there was a rustle in the cane , and silence . 
My God ! '' he whispered hoarsely , he hit one . 
'' I felt Polly Ann's hand on my face . 
Davy dear , '' she said , are ye hurt ? '' No , '' said I , dazed , and wondering why Weldon had not been shot long ago as he slumbered . 
I was burning to climb the bank and ask him whether he had seen the Indian fall . 
Again there was silence , a silence even more awful than before . 
The sun crept higher , the magic of his rays turning the creek from black to crystal , and the birds began to sing again . 
And still there was no sign of the treacherous enemy that lurked about us . 
Could Tom get back ? I glanced at Polly Ann . 
The same question was written in her yearning eyes , staring at the spot where the gray of his hunting shirt showed through the bushes at the bend . 
Suddenly her hand tightened on mine . 
The hunting shirt was gone ! After that , in the intervals when my terror left me , I tried to speculate upon the plan of the savages . 
Their own numbers could not be great , and yet they must have known from our trace how few we were . 
Scanning the ground , I noted that the forest was fairly clean of undergrowth on both sides of us . 
Below , the stream ran straight , but there were growths of cane and briers . 
Looking up , I saw Weldon faced about . 
It was the obvious move . 
But where had Tom gone ? Next my eye was caught by a little run fringed with bushes that curved around the cane near the bend . 
I traced its course , unconsciously , bit by bit , until it reached the edge of a bank not fifty feet away . 
All at once my breath left me . 
Through the tangle of bramble stems at the mouth of the run , above naked brown shoulders there glared at me , hideously streaked with red , a face . 
I know not to this day whether I shot from determination or nervousness . 
The pistol , Davy , '' she cried . 
One torture was over , another on . 
Once in a while I heard Weldon's answering shot , but I remembered my promise to Tom not to waste powder unless I were sure . 
The agony was the breathing space we had while they crept nearer . 
Then we thought of Tom , and I dared not glance at Polly Ann for fear that the sight of her face would unnerve me . 
Then a longing to kill seized me , a longing so strange and fierce that I could scarce be still . 
I know now that it comes in battle to all men , and with intensity to the hunted , and it explained to me more clearly what followed . 
I fairly prayed for the sight of a painted form , and time after time my fancy tricked me into the notion that I had one . 
I say that I have some notion of what possessed the man , for he was crazed with passion at fighting the race which had so cruelly wronged him . 
Horror struck , I saw him swing down from the bank , splash through the water with raised tomahawk , and gain the top of the run . 
Polly Ann and I stared transfixed at the fearful fight that followed , nor can I give any adequate description of it . 
Neither might reach for his knife , neither was able to hold the other down , Weldon's curses surcharged with hatred . 
But the pent up rage of months gave the white man strength . 
Polly Ann and I were powerless for fear of shooting Weldon , and gazed absorbed at the fiendish scene with eyes not to be withdrawn . 
A long , bronze arm reached out from above , and a painted face glowered at us from the very roots where Weldon had lain . 
That moment I took to be my last , and in it I seemed to taste all eternity , I heard but faintly a noise beyond . 
It was she who fired the pistol and made the great hole in his head , and so he twitched and died . 
My own eyes turned with theirs to see the body of poor Weldon lying face downward in the water . 
But beyond it a tragedy awaited me . 
Defiant , immovable , save for the heaving of his naked chest , the savage who had killed him stood erect with folded arms facing us . 
The smoke cleared away from a gleaming rifle barrel , and the brave staggered and fell and died as silent as he stood , his feathers making ripples in the stream . 
It was cold blooded , if you like , but war in those days was to the death , and knew no mercy . 
Staggering to my feet , I stretched myself , but I had been cramped so long that I tottered and would have fallen had not Tom's hand steadied me . 
Davy ! '' he cried . 
Thank God , little Davy ! the varmints didn't get ye . 
'' And you , Tom ? '' I answered , looking up at him , bewildered with happiness . 
They was nearer than I suspicioned when I went off , '' he said , and looked at me curiously . 
Drat the little deevil , '' he said affectionately , and his voice trembled , he took care of Polly Ann , I'll warrant . 
'' He carried me to the top of the bank , where we were surrounded by the whole band of backwoodsmen . 
That he did ! '' cried Polly Ann , and fetched a redskin yonder as clean as you could have done it , Tom . 
'' The little deevil ! '' exclaimed Tom again . 
I looked up , and my eyes were caught and held with a strange fascination by fearless blue ones that gazed down into them . 
I give you but a poor description of the owner of these blue eyes , for personal magnetism springs not from one feature or another . 
He was a young man , perhaps five and twenty as I now know age , woodsman clad , square built , sun reddened . 
His hair might have been orange in one light and sand colored in another . 
With a boy's sense of such things I knew that the other woodsmen were waiting for him to speak , for they glanced at him expectantly . 
You had a near call , McChesney , '' said he , at length fortunate for you we were after this band , shot some of it to pieces yesterday morning . 
'' He paused , looking at Tom with that quality of tribute which comes naturally to a leader of men . 
By God , '' he said , I didn't think you'd try it . 
'' My word is good , Colonel Clark , '' answered Tom , simply . 
Young Colonel Clark glanced at the lithe figure of Polly Ann . 
He seemed a man of few words , for he did not add to his praise of Tom's achievement by complimenting her as Captain Sevier had done . 
In fact , he said nothing more , but leaped down the bank and strode into the water where the body of Weldon lay , and dragged it out himself . 
We gathered around it silently , and two great tears rolled down Polly Ann's cheeks as she parted the hair with tenderness and loosened the clenched hands . 
Nor did any of the tall woodsmen speak . 
Poor Weldon ! The tragedy of his life and death was the tragedy of Kentucky herself . 
They buried him by the waterside , where he had fallen . 
But there was little time for mourning on the border . 
Ay , Mac , '' he cried , here's a sculp for ye . 
'' It's Davy's , '' exclaimed Polly Ann from the top of the bank Davy shot that one . 
'' Hooray for Davy , '' cried a huge , strapping backwoodsman who stood beside her , and the others laughingly took up the shout . 
Bring him over , Cowan . 
'' The giant threw me on his shoulder as though I had been a fox , leaped down , and took the stream in two strides . 
He stood me down beside the Indian's body , smiled as he whipped my hunting knife from my belt , and said , Now , Davy , take the sculp . 
Nor did I have any other feeling than fierce hatred of the race which had killed my father . 
Those who have known armies in their discipline will find it difficult to understand the leadership of the border . 
Such leadership was granted only to those whose force and individuality compelled men to obey them . 
I had my first glimpse of it that day . 
Colonel Clark , so I was told by my friend Cowan , held that title in Kentucky by reason of his prowess . 
Clark had been standing quietly on the bank while I had scalped my first redskin . 
Then he called Tom McChesney to him and questioned him closely about our journey , the signs we had seen , and , finally , the news in the Watauga settlements . 
While this was going on the others gathered round them . 
What now ? '' asked Cowan , when he had finished . 
Back to Harrodstown , '' answered the Colonel , shortly . 
There was a brief silence , followed by a hoarse murmur from a thick set man at the edge of the crowd , who shouldered his way to the centre of it . 
We set out to hunt a fight , and my pluck is to clean up . 
We ain't finished 'em yet . 
'' The man had a deep , coarse voice that was a piece with his roughness . 
I reckon this band ain't a goin' to harry the station any more , McGary , '' cried Cowan . 
While I stood listening to these disputes with a boy's awe of a man's quarrel , what was my astonishment to feel a hand on my shoulder . 
It was Colonel Clark's , and he was not paying the least attention to the dispute . 
Davy , '' said he , you look as if you could make a fire . 
'' Yes , sir , '' I answered , gasping . 
Well , '' said he , make one . 
'' I lighted a piece of punk with the flint , and , wrapping it up in some dry brush , soon had a blaze started . 
Looking up , I caught his eye on me again . 
Mrs. McChesney , '' said Colonel Clark to Polly Ann , you look as if you could make johnny cake . 
Have you any meal ? '' That I have , '' cried Polly Ann , though it's fair mouldy . 
Davy , run and fetch it . 
'' I ran to the pack on the sorrel mare . 
When I returned Mr. Clark said That seems a handy boy , Mrs. McChesney . 
'' Handy ! '' cried Polly Ann , I reckon he's more than handy . 
Didn't he save my life twice on our way out here ? '' And how was that ? '' said the Colonel . 
Run and fetch some water , Davy , '' said Polly Ann , and straightway launched forth into a vivid description of my exploits , as she mixed the meal . 
Nay , she went so far as to tell how she came by me . 
The young Colonel listened gravely , though with a gleam now and then in his blue eyes . 
Leaning on his long rifle , he paid no manner of attention to the angry voices near by , which conduct to me was little short of the marvellous . 
Now , Davy , '' said he , at length , the rest of your history . 
'' There is little of it , sir , '' I answered . 
I was born in the Yadkin country , lived alone with my father , who was a Scotchman . 
He was killed at Cherokee Ford , and and I ran away from Temple Bow , and found Polly Ann . 
'' This time I caught something of surprise on the Colonel's face . 
By thunder , Davy , '' said he , but you have a clean gift for brief narrative . 
And what would you like best to be when you grow up , Davy ? '' he asked . 
Six feet , '' said I , so promptly that he laughed . 
Faith , '' said Polly Ann , looking at me comically , he may be many things , but I'll warrant he'll never be that . 
'' I have often thought since that young Mr. Clark showed much of the wisdom of the famous king of Israel on that day . 
Polly Ann cooked a piece of a deer which one of the woodsmen had with him , and the quarrel died of itself when we sat down to this and the johnny cake . 
By noon we had taken up the trace for Harrodstown , marching with scouts ahead and behind . 
Mr. Clark walked mostly alone , seemingly wrapped in thought . 
At times he had short talks with different men , oftenest I noted with pride with Tom McChesney . 
And more than once when he halted he called me to him , my answers to his questions seeming to amuse him . 
Indeed , I became a kind of pet with the backwoodsmen , Cowan often flinging me to his shoulder as he swung along . 
The pack was taken from the sorrel mare and divided among the party , and Polly Ann made to ride that we might move the faster . 
It must have been the next afternoon , about four , that the rough stockade of Harrodstown greeted our eyes as we stole cautiously to the edge of the forest . 
And the sight of no roofs and spires could have been more welcome than that of these logs and cabins , broiling in the midsummer sun . 
At a little distance from the fort , a silent testimony of siege , the stumpy , cleared fields were overgrown with weeds , tall and rank , the corn choked . 
Nearer the stockade , where the keepers of the fort might venture out at times , a more orderly growth met the eye . 
It was young James Ray whom Colonel Clark singled to creep with our message to the gates . 
At six , when the smoke was rising from the stone chimneys behind the palisades , Ray came back to say that all was well . 
Mangy dogs barked at our feet , men and women ran forward joyfully to seize our hands and greet us . 
And so we came to Kaintuckee . 
CHAPTER X HARRODSTOWN The old forts like Harrodstown and Boonesboro and Logan's at St . 
Asaph's have long since passed away . 
Perchance my own pages may be colored by gratitude and love for the pioneers amongst whom I found myself , and thankfulness to God that we had reached them alive . 
I know not how many had been cooped up in the little fort since the early spring , awaiting the chance to go back to their weed choked clearings . 
The fort at Harrodstown was like an hundred others I have since seen , but sufficiently surprising to me then . 
Imagine a great parallelogram made of log cabins set end to end , their common outside wall being the wall of the fort , and loopholed . 
At the four corners of the parallelogram the cabins jutted out , with ports in the angle in order to give a flanking fire in case the savages reached the palisade . 
And then there were huge log gates with watch towers on either sides where sentries sat day and night scanning the forest line . 
Within the fort was a big common dotted with forest trees , where such cattle as had been saved browsed on the scanty grass . 
There had been but the one scrawny horse before our arrival . 
Many of the men wore rough beards , unkempt , and yellow , weather worn hunting shirts , often stained with blood . 
All seemingly talking at once , they plied us with question after question of the trace , the Watauga settlements , the news in the Carolinys , and how the war went . 
'' The Saints save us ! And what'll be his name ? '' Davy , '' said my friend . 
Is it Davy ? Sure his namesake killed a giant , too . 
'' And is he come along , also ? '' said another . 
His shy blue eyes and stiff blond hair gave him a strange appearance in a hunting shirt . 
And that night we supped upon dried buffalo meat and boiled nettle tops , for of such was the fare in Harrodstown that summer . 
Tom McChesney kept his faith . 
'' One other man was to keep his faith with the little community George Rogers Clark . 
And I soon learned that trustworthiness is held in greater esteem in a border community than anywhere else . 
Of course , the love of the frontier was in the grain of these men . 
But what did they come back to ? Day after day would the sun rise over the forest and beat down upon the little enclosure in which we were penned . 
The row of cabins leaning against the stockade marked the boundaries of our diminutive world . 
Beyond them , invisible , lurked a relentless foe . 
Within , the greater souls alone were calm , and a man's worth was set down to a hair's breadth . 
His muscles were like hickory wood , and I have known a man insensible for a quarter of an hour after one of his blows . 
Strangely enough , he never fought in anger , and was the first to the spring for a gourd of water after the fight was over . 
But Tom McChesney was the best wrestler of the lot , and could make a wider leap than any other man in Harrodstown . 
Tom's reputation did not end there , for he became one of the two breadwinners of the station . 
I would better have said meatwinners . 
Until Tom came , one only had been successful , that lad of seventeen , whose achievements were the envy of my boyish soul , James Ray . 
And now Tom took his turn . 
Often did I sit with Polly Ann till midnight in the sentry's tower , straining my ears for the owl's hoot that warned us of his coming . 
Sometimes he was empty handed , but sometimes a deer hung limp and black across his saddle , or a pair of turkeys swung from his shoulder . 
Arrah , darlin' , '' said Terence to Polly Ann , 'tis yer husband and James is the jools av the fort . 
Sure I niver loved me father as I do thim . 
'' I would have given kingdoms in those days to have been seventeen and James Ray . 
When he was in the fort I dogged his footsteps , and listened with a painful yearning to the stories of his escapes from the roving bands . 
And as many a character is watered in its growth by hero worship , so my own grew firmer in the contemplation of Ray's resourcefulness . 
My strange life had far removed me from lads of my own age , and he took a fancy to me , perhaps because of the very persistence of my devotion to him . 
I cleaned his gun , filled his powder flask , and ran to do his every bidding . 
They spoke of much that I did not understand concerning the discountenance by Virginia of these claims , speculating as to whether Henderson's grants were good . 
For some of them held these grants , and others Virginia grants a fruitful source of quarrel between them . 
Some spoke , too , of Washington and his ragged soldiers going up and down the old colonies and fighting for a freedom which there seemed little chance of getting . 
I learned to hate Hamilton with the rest , and pictured him with the visage of a fiend . 
And when amidst great excitement a spent runner would arrive from Boonesboro or St . 
Asaph's and beg Mr. Clark for a squad , it was commonly with the first breath that came into his body that he cursed Hamilton . 
At length , when a fortnight had passed , and Tom and Ray had gone forth day after day without sight or fresh sign of Indians , the weight lifted from our hearts . 
There were many things that might yet be planted and come to maturity before the late Kentucky frosts . 
He was Colonel George Rogers Clark , Commander in chief of the backwoodsmen of Kentucky , whose power was reenforced by that strange thing called an education . 
It was this , no doubt , gave him command of words when he chose to use them . 
It appears that Mr. Clark had not yet received the title of Colonel , though he held command . 
Faith , '' said Terence , as we passed him , 'tis a foine man he is , and a gintleman born . 
Wasn't it him gathered the Convintion here in Harrodstown last year that chose him and another to go to the Virginia legislatoor ? And him but a lad , ye might say . 
The divil fly away wid his caution ! Sure the redskins is as toired as us , and gone home to the wives and childher , bad cess to thim . 
'' And so the first day the gates were opened we went into the fields a little way and the next day a little farther . 
They had once seemed to me an unexplored and forbidden country as I searched them with my eyes from the sentry boxes . 
Like a child on a holiday , Polly Ann ran hither and thither among the stalks , her black hair flying and a song on her lips . 
I reckon we may be going there next week . 
'' Caution being born into me with all the strength of a vice , I said nothing . 
Whereupon she seized me in her strong hands and shook me . 
Ye little imp ! '' said she , while the women paused in their work to laugh at us . 
The boy is right , Polly Ann , '' said Mrs. Harrod , and he's got more sense than most of the men in the fort . 
'' Ay , that he has , '' the gaunt Mrs. Cowan put in , eying me fiercely , while she gave one of her own offsprings a slap that sent him spinning . 
When I staggered to my feet Polly Ann and Mrs. Cowan and Mrs. Harrod were standing alone . 
For there was little of fear in those three . 
Shucks ! '' said Mrs. Cowan , I reckon it's that Jim Ray shooting at a mark , '' and she began to pick nettles again . 
Vimmen is a shy critter , '' remarked Swein Poulsson , coming up . 
I had a shrewd notion that he had run with the others . 
Wimmen ! '' Mrs. Cowan fairly roared . 
His little blue eyes were perfectly solemn as he answered Ve send you fight Injuns mit your tongue , Mrs. Cowan . 
Then we haf no more troubles . 
'' Land of Canaan ! '' cried she , I reckon I could do more harm with it than you with a gun . 
'' There were many such false alarms in the bright days following , and never a bullet sped from the shadow of the forest . 
It was then that men began to scoff at him behind his back , though some spoke with sufficient backwoods bluntness to his face . 
And yet he gave no sign of anger or impatience . 
Not so the other leaders . 
No sooner did the danger seem past than bitter strife sprang up within the walls . 
Even the two captains were mortal enemies . 
the loud sounds of a quarrel came from the elm at the spring . 
With one accord men and women and children flocked thither , and as we ran we heard McGary's voice above the rest . 
Worming my way , boylike , through the crowd , I came upon McGary and Harrod glaring at each other in the centre of it . 
By Job ! there's no devil if I'll stand back from my clearing and waste the rest of the summer for the fears of a pack of cowards . 
I'll take a posse and march to Shawanee Springs this day , and see any man a fair fight that tries to stop me . 
'' And who's in command here ? '' demanded Harrod . 
I am , for one , '' said McGary , with an oath , and my corn's on the ear . 
I've held back long enough , I tell you , and I'll starve this winter for you nor any one else . 
Where's Clark ? '' he said to Bowman . 
Clark ! '' roared McGary , Clark be d d . 
Ye'd think he was a woman . 
'' He strode up to Harrod until their faces almost touched , and his voice shook with the intensity of his anger . 
By G d , you nor Clark nor any one else will stop me , I say ! '' He swung around and faced the people . 
Come on , boys ! We'll fetch that corn , or know the reason why . 
'' A responding murmur showed that the bulk of them were with him . 
He started roughly to shoulder his way out , and whether from accident or design Captain Harrod slipped in front of him , I never knew . 
The thing that followed happened quickly as the catching of my breath . 
I saw McGary powdering his pan , and Harrod his , and felt the crowd giving back like buffalo . 
It was a cry that startled us and them . 
There was a vision of a woman flying across the common , and we saw the dauntless Mrs. Harrod snatching her husband's gun from his resisting hands . 
So she saved his life and McGary's . 
At this point Colonel Clark was seen coming from the gate . 
As the day wore on to afternoon a blue haze harbinger of autumn settled over fort and forest . 
Bees hummed in the air as they searched hither and thither amongst the flowers , or shot straight as a bullet for a distant hive . 
But presently a rifle cracked , and we raised our heads . 
Hist ! '' said Terence , the bhoys on watch is that warlike ! Whin there's no redskins to kill they must be wastin' good powdher on a three . 
'' I leaped upon a stump and scanned the line of sentries between us and the woods only their heads and shoulders appeared above the rank growth . 
I saw them looking from one to another questioningly , some shouting words I could not hear . 
A distant man in a yellow hunting shirt stumbled , and was drowned in the tangle as in water . 
The deep and guttural song of it rose and fell with a horrid fierceness . 
An agonized voice was in my ears , and I halted , ashamed . 
Davy ! '' she cried , Davy , have ye seen Tom ? '' Two men dashed by . 
I seized one by the fringe of his shirt , and he flung me from my feet . 
The other leaped me as I knelt . 
Run , ye fools ! '' he shouted . 
But we stood still , with yearning eyes staring back through the frantic forms for a sight of Tom's . 
I'll go back ! '' I cried , I'll go back for him . 
Do you run to the fort . 
'' For suddenly I seemed to forget my fear , nor did even the hideous notes of the scalp halloo disturb me . 
Before Polly Ann could catch me I had turned and started , stumbled , I thought on a stump , and fallen headlong among the nettles with a stinging pain in my leg . 
Staggering to my feet , I tried to run on , fell again , and putting down my hand found it smeared with blood . 
A man came by , paused an instant while his eye caught me , and ran on again . 
I shall remember his face and name to my dying day but there is no reason to put it down here . 
Nearer , and nearer yet and then I heard my name called . 
I was lifted from the ground , and found myself in the lithe arms of Polly Ann . 
Set me down ! '' I screamed , set me down ! '' and must have added some of the curses I had heard in the fort . 
, and flew like a deer toward the gates . 
Over her shoulder I glanced back . 
A spare three hundred yards away in a ragged line a hundred red devils were bounding after us with feathers flying and mouths open as they yelled . 
Again I cried to her to set me down but though her heart beat faster and her breath came shorter , she held me the tighter . 
Second by second they gained on us , relentlessly . 
Were we near the fort ? Hoarse shouts answered the question , but they seemed distant too distant . 
The savages were gaining , and Polly Ann's breath quicker still . 
She staggered , but the brave soul had no thought of faltering . 
Shots whistled over our heads , and here was the brown fort . 
Its big gates swung together as we dashed through the narrowed opening . 
Then , as he lifted us off , I knew that the man who had saved us was Tom himself . 
The gates closed with a bang , and a patter of bullets beat against them like rain . 
Through the shouting and confusion came a cry in a voice I knew , now pleading , now commanding . 
By Job , I'll shoot the man that touches it ! '' he shouted , as he tore them away . 
But the sturdiest of them went again to it , and cursed him . 
And while they fought backward and forward , the lad's mother , Mrs. Ray , cried out to them to open in tones to rend their hearts . 
that he would not sacrifice the station for one man . 
Some of her words came to me , shrilly , above the noise . 
He fed you he fed you . 
The huge figure I knew to be my friend Cowan's , and when he drew back to load I seized his arm , shouting Ray's name . 
Although the lead was pattering on the other side of the logs , Cowan lifted me to the port . 
And there , stretched on the ground behind a stump , within twenty feet of the walls , was James . 
Even as I looked the puffs of dust at his side showed that the savages knew his refuge . 
I saw him level and fire , and then Bill Cowan set me down and began to ram in a charge with tremendous energy . 
Darting in , she fairly hauled me to the shake down in the far corner . 
Will ye bleed to death , Davy ? '' she cried , as she slipped off my legging and bent over the wound . 
Her eye lighting on a gourdful of water on the puncheon table , she tore a strip from her dress and washed and bound me deftly . 
The bullet was in the flesh , and gave me no great pain . 
Lie there , ye imp ! '' she commanded , when she had finished . 
Some one's under the bed , '' said I , for I had heard a movement . 
I haf one great fright , '' said he . 
Send him into the common with the women in yere place , Mis' McChesney , '' growled Cowan , who was loading . 
By tam ! '' said Swein Poulsson , leaping to his feet , I vill stay here und fight . 
I am prave once again . 
'' Stooping down , he searched under the bed , pulled out his rifle , powdered the pan , and flying to the other port , fired . 
At that Cowan left his post and snatched the rifle from Poulsson's hands . 
Ye're but wasting powder , '' he cried angrily . 
Then , by tam , I am as vell under the bed , '' said Poulsson . 
Vat can I do ? '' I had it . 
Dig ! '' I shouted and seizing the astonished Cowan's tomahawk from his belt I set to work furiously chopping at the dirt beneath the log wall . 
Dig , so that James can get under . 
'' Cowan gave me the one look , swore a mighty oath , and leaping to the port shouted to Ray in a thundering voice what we were doing . 
Dig ! '' roared Cowan . 
Dig , for the love of God , for he can't hear me . 
'' The three of us set to work with all our might , Poulsson making great holes in the ground at every stroke , Polly Ann scraping at the dirt with the gourd . 
But there was the daylight under the log . 
Again Cowan shouted at Ray , and again , but he did not understand . 
It was then the miracle happened . 
I have seen brave men and cowards since , and I am as far as ever from distinguishing them . 
Before we knew it Poulsson was in the hole once more had wriggled out of it on the other side , and was squirming in a hail of bullets towards Ray . 
, and then the barrel of a Deckard was poked through the hole . 
After it came James Ray himself , and lastly Poulsson , and a great shout went out from the loopholes and was taken up by the women in the common . 
Swein Poulsson had become a hero , nor was he willing to lose any of the glamour which was a hero's right . 
, Swein would say You did not see me safe James , no ? I vill tell you Joost how . 
It never leaked out that Swein was first of all under the bed , for Polly Ann and Bill Cowan and myself swore to keep the secret . 
But they told how I had thought of digging the hole under the logs a happy circumstance which got me a reputation for wisdom beyond my years . 
One effect it had on me to make me long even more earnestly to be a man . 
The impulse of my reputation led me farther . 
A fortnight of more inactivity followed , and then we ventured out into the fields once more . 
But I went with the guard this time , not with the women , thanks to a whim the men had for humoring me . 
Sure he can smell thim the same as you an' me kin see the red paint on their faces . 
'' I reckon that's true , '' said Bill Cowan , with solemnity , and so he carried me off . 
Once when this happened I followed them to the shade at the edge of the woods , for it was noon , and the sun beat down fiercely . 
And there I sat for some time watching them as they lashed their sides with their tails and pawed the ground , for experience is a good master . 
Whether or not the flies were all that troubled them I could not tell , and no sound save the tinkle of their bells broke the noonday stillness . 
Making a circle I drove them back toward the fort , much troubled in mind . 
I told Cowan , but he laughed and said it was the flies . 
Yet I was not satisfied , and finally stole back again to the place where I had found them . 
I sat a long time hidden at the edge of the forest , listening until my imagination tricked me into hearing those noises which I feared and yet longed for . 
Trembling , I stole a little farther in the shade of the woods , and then a little farther still . 
The leaves rustled in the summer's breeze , patches of sunlight flickered on the mould , the birds twittered , and the squirrels scolded . 
A chipmunk frightened me as he flew chattering along a log . 
And yet I went on . 
At length I stopped and caught my breath . 
But the skeletons of the pyramid tents alone remained . 
It must have held near a thousand warriors . 
All about me were gray heaps of ashes , and bones of deer and elk and buffalo scattered , some picked clean , some with the meat and hide sticking to them . 
Impelled by a strong fascination , I went hither and thither until a sound brought me to a stand the echoing crack of a distant rifle . 
On the heels of it came another , then several together , and a faint shouting borne on the light wind . 
Terrorized , I sought for shelter . 
A pile of brush underlain by ashes was by , and I crept into that . 
And when I reached the briers , what between panting and the thumping of my heart I could for a few moments hear nothing . 
They splashed over the creek and were gone . 
Bewildered with fear , I dropped under a fallen tree . 
Shouts were in my ears , and the noise of men running . 
I stood up , and there , not twenty paces away , was Colonel Clark himself rushing toward me . 
He halted with a cry , raised his rifle , and dropped it at the sight of my queer little figure covered with ashes . 
My God ! '' he cried , it's Davy . 
'' They crossed the creek , '' I shouted , pointing the way , they crossed the creek , some twelve of them . 
'' Ay , '' he said , staring at me , and by this time the rest of the guard were come up . 
They too stared , with different exclamations on their lips , Cowan and Bowman and Tom McChesney and Terence McCann in front . 
And there's a great camp below , '' I went on , deserted , where a thousand men have been . 
'' A camp deserted ? '' said Clark , quickly . 
Yes , '' I said , yes . 
'' But he had already started forward and seized me by the arm . 
Lead on , '' he cried , show it to us . 
'' He went ahead with me , travelling so fast that I must needs run to keep up , and fairly lifting me over the logs . 
But when we came in sight of the place he darted forward alone and went through it like a hound on the trail . 
The others followed him , crying out at the size of the place and poking among the ashes . 
At length they all took up the trail for a way down the creek . 
Presently Clark called a halt . 
I reckon that they've made for the Ohio , '' he said . 
And at this judgment from him the guard gave a cheer that might almost have been heard in the fields around the fort . 
The terror that had hovered over us all that long summer was lifted at last . 
You may be sure that Cowan carried me back to the station . 
And when from the fort they saw us coming across the fields they opened the gates in astonishment , and on hearing the news gave themselves over to the wildest rejoicing . 
For the backwoodsmen were children of nature . 
I must have cut a queer little figure as I sat between Cowan and Tom watching the dance , for presently Colonel Clark came up to us , laughing in his quiet way . 
Davy , '' said he , there is another great man here who would like to see you , '' and led me away wondering . 
Do you know who that is , Davy ? '' said Colonel Clark . 
Mr. Boone came to my father's cabin on the Yadkin once , '' I said he taught me to skin a deer . 
'' Ay , that I did , '' exclaimed Mr. Boone , and I said ye'd make a woodsman sometime . 
'' Mr. Boone , it seemed , had come over from Boonesboro to consult with Colonel Clark on certain matters , and had but just arrived . 
But so modest was he that he would not let it be known that he was in the station , for fear of interrupting the pleasure . 
He was much the same as I had known him , only grown older and his reputation now increased to vastness . 
They seemed not to mind my presence . 
At length Colonel Clark turned to me with that quiet , jocose way he had when relaxed . 
Davy , '' said he , we'll see how much of a general you are . 
By God ! '' exclaimed Clark , striking Mr. Boone on the knee , that's what I'd do . 
'' CHAPTER XI FRAGMENTARY Mr. Boone's visit lasted but a day . 
I was a great deal with Colonel Clark in the few weeks that followed before his departure for Virginia . 
from the captains in the station , without seeming to offend them . 
But he had a fancy for James Ray and for me , and he often took me into the woods with him by day , and talked with me of an evening . 
'' My look must have been wistful . 
I can't leave Polly Ann and Tom , '' I answered . 
Well , '' he said , I like that . 
Faith to your friends is a big equipment for life . 
'' But why are you going ? '' I asked . 
Because I love Kentucky best of all things in the world , '' he answered , smiling . 
And what are you going to do ? '' I insisted . 
Ah , '' he said , that I can't tell even to you . 
'' To catch Hamilton ? '' I ventured at random . 
He looked at me queerly . 
Would you go along , Davy ? '' said he , laughing now . 
Would you take Tom ? '' Among the first , '' answered Colonel Clark , heartily . 
We were seated under the elm near the spring , and at that instant I saw Tom coming toward us . 
I jumped up , thinking to please him by this intelligence , when Colonel Clark pulled me down again . 
Davy , '' said he , almost roughly , I thought , remember that we have been joking . 
Do you understand ? joking . 
You have a tongue in your mouth , but sense enough in your head , I believe , to hold it . 
'' He turned to Tom . 
McChesney , this is a queer lad you brought us , '' said he . 
He's a little deevil , '' agreed Tom , for that had become a formula with him . 
It was all very mysterious to me , and I lay awake many a night with curiosity , trying to solve a puzzle that was none of my business . 
And one day , to cap the matter , two woodsmen arrived at Harrodstown with clothes frayed and bodies lean from a long journey . 
The first of October , the day of Colonel Clark's departure , dawned crisp and clear . 
He was to take with him the disheartened and the cowed , the weaklings who loved neither work nor exposure nor danger . 
And before he set out of the gate he made a little speech to the assembled people . 
My friends , '' he said , you know me . 
I put the interests of Kentucky before my own . 
Last year when I left to represent her at Williamsburg there were some who said I would desert her . 
It was for her sake I made that journey , suffered the tortures of hell from scalded feet , was near to dying in the mountains . 
'' At these words the settlers gave a great shout , waving their coonskin hats in the air . 
Ay , that ye did , '' cried Bill Cowan , and got the amminition . 
'' I made that journey for her sake , I say , '' Colonel Clark continued , and even so I am making this one . 
I pray you trust me , and God bless and keep you while I am gone . 
'' He did not forget to speak to me as he walked between our lines , and told me to be a good boy and that he would see me in the spring . 
A motley company it was , the refuse of the station , headed by its cherished captain . 
So they started back over the weary road that led to that now far away land of civilization and safety . 
During the balmy Indian summer , when the sharper lines of nature are softened by the haze , some came to us from across the mountains to make up for the deserters . 
Nay , some of our best citizens came to Kentucky swinging to the tail of a patient animal . 
The Indians were still abroad , and in small war parties darted hither and thither with incredible swiftness . 
And at night we would gather at the fire around our new emigrants to listen to the stories they had to tell , familiar stories to all of us . 
Sometimes it had been the gobble of a wild turkey that had lured to danger , again a wood owl had cried strangely in the night . 
Winter came , and passed somehow . 
I cannot dwell here on the tediousness of it , and the one bright spot it has left in my memory concerns Polly Ann . 
Did man , woman , or child fall sick , it was Polly Ann who nursed them . 
She had by nature the God given gift of healing , knew by heart all the simple remedies that backwoods lore had inherited from the north of Ireland or borrowed from the Indians . 
Her sympathy and loving kindness did more than these , her never tiring and ever cheerful watchfulness . 
She was deft , too , was Polly Ann , and spun from nettle bark many a cut of linen that could scarce be told from flax . 
Then came the sugaring , the warm days and the freezing nights when the earth stirs in her sleep and the taps drip from red sunrise to red sunset . 
Old and young went to the camps , the women and children boiling and graining , the squads of men posted in guards round about . 
And after that the days flew so quickly that it seemed as if the woods had burst suddenly into white flower , and it was spring again . 
And then a joy to be long remembered I went on a hunting trip with Tom and Cowan and three others where the Kentucky tumbles between its darkly wooded cliffs . 
On the edge of one of these licks we paused and stared breathless at giant bones sticking here and there in the black mud , and great skulls of fearful beasts half embedded . 
This was called the Big Bone Lick , and some travellers that went before us had made their tents with the thighs of these monsters of a past age . 
A danger past is oft a danger forgotten . 
Men went out to build the homes of which they had dreamed through the long winter . 
Axes rang amidst the white dogwoods and the crabs and redbuds , and there were riotous log raisings in the clearings . 
But I think the building of Tom's house was the most joyous occasion of all , and for none in the settlement would men work more willingly than for him and Polly Ann . 
The cabin went up as if by magic . 
It stood on a rise upon the bank of the river in a grove of oaks and hickories , with a big persimmon tree in front of the door . 
After that we went to ploughing , an occupation which Tom fancied but little , for he loved the life of a hunter best of all . 
But there was corn to be raised and fodder for the horses , and a truck patch to be cleared near the house . 
One day a great event happened , and after the manner of many great events , it began in mystery . 
Leaping on the roan mare , I was riding like mad for Harrodstown to fetch Mrs. Cowan . 
Shucks , '' Mrs. Cowan was saying loudly , I reckon ye're as little use to day as Swein Poulsson , standin' there on one foot . 
Ye anger me just grinning at it like a fool and yer own doin' . 
Have ye forgot how to talk ? '' Tom grinned the more , but was saved the effort of a reply by a loud noise from the bundle . 
Here's another , '' cried Mrs. Cowan to me . 
Ye needn't act as if it was an animal . 
Faith , yereself was like that once , all red an' crinkled . 
But I warrant ye didn't have the heft , '' and she lifted it , judicially . 
A grand baby , '' attacking Tom again , and ye're no more worthy to be his father than Davy here . 
'' Then I heard a voice calling me , and pushing past Mrs. Cowan , I ran into the cabin . 
Polly Ann lay on the log bedstead , and she turned to mine a face radiant with a happiness I had not imagined . 
Oh , Davy , have ye seen him ? Have ye seen little Tom ? Davy , I reckon I'll never be so happy again . 
Fetch him here , Mrs. Cowan . 
'' Mrs. Cowan , with a glance of contempt at Tom and me , put the bundle tenderly down on the coarse brown sheet beside her . 
Poor little Tom ! Only the first fortnight of his existence was spent in peace . 
I have a pathetic memory of it all of our little home , of our hopes for it , of our days of labor and nights of planning to make it complete . 
It was the sound of many guns , muffled in the distant forest . 
In silence and sorrow we fled through the tall cane , nor dared to take one last look at the cabin , or the fields lying black in the spring sunlight . 
The shots had ceased , but ere we had reached the little clearing McCann had made they began again , though as distant as before . 
Tom went ahead , while I led the mare and Polly Ann clutched the child to her breast . 
But when we came in sight of the fort across the clearings the gates were closed . 
At length the shooting ceased stillness reigned then came a faint halloo , and out of the forest beyond us a man rode , waving his hat at the fort . 
The gates opened , and we rushed pell mell across the fields to safety . 
The Indians had shot at a party shelling corn at Captain Bowman's plantation , and killed two , while the others had taken refuge in the crib . 
Fired at from every brake , James Ray had ridden to Harrodstown for succor , and the savages had been beaten off . 
But only the foolhardy returned to their clearings now . 
There was bitter talk within the gates that night , and many declared angrily that Colonel Clark had abandoned us . 
But I remembered what he had said , and had faith in him . 
It was that very night , too , I sat with Cowan , who had duty in one of the sentry boxes , and we heard a voice calling softly under us . 
Fearing treachery , Cowan cried out for a sign . 
Then the answer came back loudly to open to a runner with a message from Colonel Clark to Captain Harrod . 
Where was Clark ? What had he been doing ? Had he deserted them ? Deserted ye ! '' cried the runner , and swore a great oath . 
Never were volunteers mustered more quickly than in that cool April night by the gates of Harrodstown Station . 
And we'll fetch Davy along , for luck , '' cried Cowan , catching sight of me beside him . 
Sure we'll be wanting a dhrummer b'y , '' said McCann . 
And so they enrolled me . 
CHAPTER XII THE CAMPAIGN BEGINS Davy , take care of my Tom , '' cried Polly Ann . 
I can see her now , standing among the women by the great hewn gateposts , with little Tom in her arms , holding him out to us as we filed by . 
And the vision of his little , round face haunted Tom and me for many weary miles of our tramp through the wilderness . 
In less than a week we of Captain Harrod's little company stood on a forest clad bank , gazing spellbound at the troubled waters of a mighty river . 
That river was the Ohio , and it divided us from the strange north country whence the savages came . 
From below , the angry voice of the Great Falls cried out to us unceasingly . 
Smoke rose through the tree tops of the island opposite , and through the new gaps of its forest cabins could be seen . 
A dozen tall boatmen , buckskin clad , dropped the big oars and leaped out on the bank with a yell of greeting . 
At the head of them was a man of huge frame , and long , light hair falling down over the collar of his hunting shirt . 
He wrung Captain Harrod's hand . 
That there's Simon Kenton , Davy , '' said Cowan , as we stood watching them . 
I ran forward for a better look at the backwoods Hercules , the tales of whose prowess had helped to while away many a winter's night in Harrodstown Station . 
Clark's thar , '' he was saying to Captain Harrod . 
God knows what his pluck is . 
He ain't said a word . 
'' He doesn't say whar he's going ? '' said Harrod . 
Not a notion , '' answered Kenton . 
He's the greatest man to keep his mouth shut I ever saw . 
He kept at the governor of Virginny till he gave him twelve hundred pounds in Continentals and power to raise troops . 
Now that ye've got here the Kentucky boys is all in . 
I come over with Montgomery , and Dillard's here from the Holston country with a company . 
'' Well , '' said Captain Harrod , I reckon we'll report . 
As our keel scraped they gave a shout that rattled in the forest behind them , and Clark came down to the waterside . 
I knew that Harrodstown wouldn't fail me , '' he said , and called every man by name as we waded ashore . 
When I came splashing along after Tom he pulled me from the water with his two hands . 
Colonel , '' said Terence McCann , we've brought ye a dhrummer b'y . 
'' We'd have no luck at all without him , '' said Cowan , and the men laughed . 
Can you walk an hundred miles without food , Davy ? '' asked Colonel Clark , eying me gravely . 
Faith he's lean as a wolf , and no stomach to hinder him , '' said Terence , seeing me look troubled . 
I'll not be missing the bit of food the likes of him would eat . 
'' And as for the heft of him , '' added Cowan , Mac and I'll not feel it . 
Well , boys , '' he said , if you must have him , you must . 
His Excellency gave me no instructions about a drummer , but we'll take you , Davy . 
The man proved to be Swein Poulsson , and the object a big drum , and he straightway began to beat upon it a tattoo with improvised drumsticks . 
A Red Stone man , '' he cried , a Red Stone man , he have it in the flatboat . 
'' The saints be good to us , '' said Terence , if it isn't the King's own drum he has . 
And Colonel Clark coming to my end of the line paused and smiled and patted me kindly on the cheek . 
Have you put this man on the roll , Harrod ? '' says he . 
No , Colonel , '' answers Captain Harrod , amid the laughter of the men at my end . 
What ! '' says the Colonel , what an oversight ! From this day he is drummer boy and orderly to the Commander in chief . 
Beat the retreat , my man . 
And so I became a kind of handy boy for the whole regiment from the Colonel down , for I was willing and glad to work . 
And when I went about the island , if a man were loafing , he would seize his axe and cry , Here's Davy , he'll tell the Colonel on me . 
But day after day passed , and no sign from Colonel Clark of his intentions . 
There's a good lad , '' said Terence . 
He'll be telling us where we're going . 
'' I was asked the same question by a score or more , but Colonel Clark kept his own counsel . 
He himself was everywhere during the days that followed , superintending the work on the blockhouse we were building , and eying the men . 
At length the blockhouse stood finished amid the yellow stumps of the great trees , the trunks of which were in its walls . 
And suddenly the order went forth for the men to draw up in front of it by companies , with the families of the emigrants behind them . 
It was a picture to fix itself in a boy's mind , and one that I have never forgotten . 
And beside the tallest , at the end of the line , was a diminutive figure with a drum hung in front of it . 
The early summer wind rustled in the forest , and the never ending song of the Great Falls sounded from afar . 
Apart , square shouldered and indomitable , stood a young man of twenty six . 
My friends and neighbors , '' he said in a firm voice , there is scarce a man standing among you to day who has not suffered at the hands of savages . 
Some of you have seen wives and children killed before your eyes or dragged into captivity . 
None of you can to day call the home for which he has risked so much his own . 
Silence ! '' cried Clark , sternly , and they were silent . 
My friends , the best way for a man to defend himself is to maim his enemy . 
One year since , when you did me the honor to choose me Commander in chief of your militia in Kentucky , I sent two scouts to Kaskaskia . 
A dozen years ago the French owned that place , and St . 
Vincent , and Detroit , and the people there are still French . 
My men brought back word that the French feared the Long Knives , as the Indians call us . 
On the first of October I went to Virginia , and some of you thought again that I had deserted you . 
I went to Williamsburg and wrestled with Governor Patrick Henry and his council , with Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Mason and Mr. Wythe . 
Virginia had no troops to send us , and her men were fighting barefoot with Washington against the armies of the British king . 
But the governor gave me twelve hundred pounds in paper , and with it I have raised the little force that we have here . 
And with it we will carry the war into Hamilton's country . 
On the swift waters of this great river which flows past us have come tidings to day , and God Himself has sent them . 
To morrow would have been too late . 
The ships and armies of the French king are on their way across the ocean to help us fight the tyrant , and this is the news that we bear to the Kaskaskias . 
When they hear this , the French of those towns will not fight against us . 
that they had their own families and settlements to defend from the Southern Indians and Chickamauga bandits , and could not undertake Kentucky's fight at that time . 
One of the malcontents from Boonesboro came to our fire to argue . 
He's mad as a medicine man , is Clark , to go into that country with less than two hundred rifles . 
And he'll force us , will he ? I'd as lief have the King for a master . 
'' He brought every man in our circle to his feet , Ray , McCann , Cowan , and Tom . 
Are you hurt , McChesney ? '' he demanded . 
I reckon not much , Colonel , '' said Tom , grinning , as he wiped his face . 
If any man deserts this camp to night , '' cried Colonel Clark , swinging around , I swear by God to have him chased and brought back and punished as he deserves . 
Captain Harrod , set a guard . 
'' I pass quickly over the rest of the incident . 
How the Holston men and some others escaped in the night in spite of our guard , and swam the river on logs . 
How at dawn we found them gone , and Kenton and Harrod and brave Captain Montgomery set out in pursuit , with Cowan and Tom and Ray . 
All day they rode , relentless , and the next evening returned with but eight weary and sullen fugitives of all those who had deserted . 
The next day the sun rose on a smiling world , the polished reaches of the river golden mirrors reflecting the forest's green . 
And we were astir with the light , preparing for our journey into the unknown country . 
At seven we embarked by companies in the flatboats , waving a farewell to those who were to be left behind . 
Some stayed through inclination and disaffection others because Colonel Clark did not deem them equal to the task . 
For we must needs pull a mile up the stream ere we could reach the passage in which to shoot downward to the Falls . 
Suddenly Poulsson dropped his handle , causing the boat to swing round in the stream , while the men damned him . 
Paying them no attention , he stood pointing into the blinding disk of the sun . 
Across the edge of it a piece was bitten out in blackness . 
Mein Gott ! '' he cried , the world is being ended just now . 
'' The holy saints remember us this day ! '' said McCann , missing a stroke to cross himself . 
Will ye pull , ye damned Dutchman ? Or we'll be the first to slide into hell . 
This is no kind of a place at all at all . 
'' By this time the men all along the line of boats had seen it , and many faltered . 
Clark's voice could be heard across the waters urging them to pull , while the bows swept across the current . 
They obeyed him , but steadily the blackness ate out the light , and a weird gloaming overspread the scene . 
River and forest became stern , the men silent . 
The more ignorant were in fear of a cataclysm , the others taking it for an omen . 
Shucks ! '' said Tom , when appealed to , I've seed it afore , and it come all right again . 
And now but a faint rim of light saved us from utter darkness . 
Big Bill Cowan , undaunted in war , stared at me with fright written on his face . 
And what 'll ye think of it , Davy ? '' he said . 
I glanced at the figure of our commander in the boat ahead , and took courage . 
It's Hamilton's scalp hanging by a lock , '' I answered , pointing to what was left of the sun . 
Soon it will be off , and then we'll have light again . 
'' To my surprise he snatched me from the thwart and held me up with a shout , and I saw Colonel Clark turn and look back . 
Davy says the Ha'r Buyer's sculp hangs by the lock , boys , he shouted , pointing at the sun . 
The word was cried from boat to boat , and we could see the men pointing upwards and laughing . 
We gained the still pools below , the sun came out once more and smiled on the landscape , and the spirits of the men , reviving , burst all bounds . 
Chancing to look up , I saw the Colonel himself watching me . 
How is this , Davy ? '' said he . 
I hear that you have saved my army for me before we have met the enemy . 
'' I did not know it , sir , '' I answered . 
Well , '' said he , if you have learned to turn an evil omen into a good sign , you know more than some generals . 
What ails you now ? '' There's a pirogue , sir , '' I cried , staring and pointing . 
Where ? '' said he , alert all at once . 
Here , McChesney , take a crew and put out after them . 
'' He had scarcely spoken ere Tom and his men were rowing into the sunset , the whole of our little army watching from the bank . 
Presently the other boat was seen coming back with ours , and five strange woodsmen stepped ashore , our men pressing around them . 
But Clark flew to the spot , the men giving back . 
Who's the leader here ? '' he demanded . 
A tall man stepped forward . 
I am , '' said he , bewildered but defiant . 
Your name ? '' John Duff , '' he answered , as though against his will . 
Your business ? '' Hunters , '' said Duff and I reckon we're in our rights . 
'' I'll judge of that , '' said our Colonel . 
Where are you from ? '' That's no secret , neither . 
Kaskasky , ten days gone . 
'' At that there was a murmur of surprise from our companies . 
Get your men back , '' he said to the captains , who stood about them . 
And all of them not moving Get your men back , I say . 
I'll have it known who's in command here . 
'' At that the men retired . 
Who commands at Kaskaskia ? '' he demanded of Duff . 
Monseer Rocheblave , a Frenchy holding a British commission , '' said Duff . 
And the British Governor Abbott has left Post St . 
Vincent and gone to Detroit Who be you ? '' he added suspiciously . 
Be you Rebels ? '' Colonel Clark is my name , and I am in the service of the Commonwealth of Virginia . 
'' Duff uttered an exclamatory oath and his manner changed . 
Be you Clark ? '' he said with respect . 
And you're going after Kaskasky ? Wal , the mility is prime , and the Injun scouts is keeping a good lookout . 
But , Colonel , I'll tell ye something the Frenchies is etarnal afeard of the Long Knives . 
My God ! they've got the notion that if you ketch 'em you'll burn and scalp 'em same as the Red Sticks . 
'' Good , '' was all that Clark answered . 
Me and my boys would kinder like to go along . 
'' Clark did not answer at once , but looked John Duff and his men over carefully . 
Will you take the oath of allegiance to Virginia and the Continental Congress ? '' he asked at length . 
I reckon it won't pizen us , '' said John Duff . 
Hold up your hands , '' said Clark , and they took the oath . 
Now , my men , '' said he , you will be assigned to companies . 
'' John Saunders , loose limbed , grinning sheepishly , shuffled forward , and Clark shot a dozen questions at him one after another . 
Yes , the trail had been blazed the Lord knew how long ago by the French , and given up when they left Massacre . 
Look you , '' said Clark to him , I am not a man to stand trifling . 
If there is any deception in this , you will be shot without mercy . 
'' And good riddance , '' said John Duff . 
Boys , we're Rebels now . 
Steer clear of the Ha'r Buyer . 
Davy , '' said Colonel Clark , let's walk about a bit . 
Tell me where you learned to be so silent ? '' My father did not like to be talked to , '' I answered , except when he was drinking . 
'' He gave me a strange look . 
Many the stroll I took with him afterwards , when he sought to relax himself from the cares which the campaign had put upon him . 
This night was still and clear , the west all yellow with the departing light , and the mists coming on the river . 
The palisades that held its earthenwork were rotten and crumbling , and the mighty bastions of its corners sliding away . 
Behind the fort , at the end farthest from the river , we came upon gravelled walks hidden by the rank growth , where the soldiers of his most Christian Majesty once paraded . 
And he told me likewise that this fort in the days of its glory had been called Massacre , from a bloody event which had happened there more than three score years before . 
Threescore years ! '' I exclaimed , longing to see the men of this race which had set up these monuments only to abandon them . 
Ay , lad , '' he answered , before you or I were born , and before our fathers were born , the French missionaries and soldiers threaded this wilderness . 
And they called this river La Belle Riviere , the Beautiful River . 
'' And shall I see that race at Kaskaskia ? '' I asked , wondering . 
That you shall , '' he cried , with a force that left no doubt in my mind . 
In the morning we broke camp and started off for the strange place which we hoped to capture . 
A hundred miles it was across the trackless wilds , and each man was ordered to carry on his back provisions for four days only . 
Faith , I do hear they're tinder as lambs . 
'' You'll no set tooth in the Frenchies , '' the pessimistic McAndrew put in , wi' five thousand redskins aboot , and they lying in wait . 
The Colonel's no vera mindful of that , I'm thinking . 
'' Will ye hush , ye ill omened hound ! '' cried Cowan , angrily . 
What foolishness is this ? '' he said , eying the dripping drum . 
Sure , Colonel , '' said McCann , swinging it on his back , we'd have no heart in us at Kaskasky widout the rattle of it in our ears . 
Bill Cowan and me will not be feeling the heft of it bechune us . 
'' Get into ranks , '' said the Colonel , amusement struggling with the anger in his face as he turned on his heel . 
His wisdom well knew when to humor a man , and when to chastise . 
Arrah , '' said Terence , as he took his place , I'd as soon l'ave me gun behind as Davy and the dhrum . 
Though my legs were short , I had both sinew and training , and now I was at one end of the line and now at the other . 
For three days we marched in the green shade of the primeval wood , nor saw the sky save in blue patches here and there . 
Again we toiled for hours through the coffee colored waters of the swamps . 
But the third day brought us to the first of those strange clearings which the French call prairies , where the long grass ripples like a lake in the summer wind . 
Here we first knew raging thirst , and longed for the loam specked water we had scorned , as our tired feet tore through the grass . 
For Saunders , our guide , took a line across the open in plain sight of any eye that might be watching from the forest cover . 
But at length our column wavered and halted by reason of some disturbance at the head of it . 
Conjectures in our company , the rear guard , became rife at once . 
Run , Davy darlin , an' see what the throuble is , '' said Terence . 
Nothing loath , I made my way to the head of the column , where Bowman's company had broken ranks and stood in a ring up to their thighs in the grass . 
In the centre of the ring , standing on one foot before our angry Colonel , was Saunders . 
Now , what does this mean ? '' demanded Clark my eye is on you , and you've boxed the compass in this last hour . 
I'm guiding you right , '' he answered , with that sullenness which comes to his kind from fear , but a man will slip his bearings sometimes in this country . 
'' Clark's eyes shot fire , and he brought down the stock of his rifle with a thud . 
By the eternal God ! '' he cried , I believe you are a traitor . 
I've been watching you every step , and you've acted strangely this morning . 
'' Ay , ay , '' came from the men round him . 
Silence ! '' cried Clark , and turned again to the cowering Saunders . 
I will give you half an hour , but as I live , I will leave you hanging there . 
'' The man's brown hand trembled as he clutched his rifle barrel . 
'Tis a hard country , sir , '' he said . 
I swear it on the evangels . 
'' A hard country ! '' cried Clark . 
A man would have to walk over it but once to know it . 
I believe you are a damned traitor and perjurer , in spite of your oath , a British spy . 
Saunders wiped the sweat from his brow on his buckskin sleeve . 
I reckon I could get the trace , Colonel , if you'd let me go a little way into the prairie . 
'' Half an hour , '' said Clark , and you'll not go alone . 
'' Sweeping his eye over Bowman's company , he picked out a man here and a man there to go with Saunders . 
Then his eye lighted on me . 
Where's McChesney ? '' he said . 
And when they came within hail it was Saunders' voice we heard , shouting brokenly I've struck it , Colonel , I've struck the trace . 
There's a pecan at the edge of the bottom with my own blaze on it . 
'' May you never be as near death again , '' said the Colonel , grimly , as he gave the order to march . 
The scanty provisions ran out , hunger was added to the pangs of thirst and weariness , and here and there in the straggling file discontent smouldered and angry undertone was heard . 
Kaskaskia was somewhere to the west and north but how far ? Clark had misled them . 
And in addition it were foolish to believe that the garrison had not been warned . 
English soldiers and French militia and Indian allies stood ready for our reception . 
Of such was the talk as we lay down in the grass under the stars on the fifth night . 
For in the rank and file an empty stomach is not hopeful . 
The next morning we took up our march silently with the dawn , the prairie grouse whirring ahead of us . 
At last , as afternoon drew on , a dark line of green edged the prairie to the westward , and our spirits rose . 
From mouth to mouth ran the word that these were the woods which fringed the bluff above Kaskaskia itself . 
We pressed ahead , and the destiny of the new Republic for which we had fought made us walk unseen . 
Excitement keyed us high we reached the shade , plunged into it , and presently came out staring at the bastioned corners of a fort which rose from the centre of a clearing . 
It had once defended the place , but now stood abandoned and dismantled . 
Beyond it , at the edge of the bluff , we halted , astonished . 
The sun was falling in the west , and below us was the goal for the sight of which we had suffered so much . 
In the centre of it stood a stone church with its belfry but our searching eyes alighted on the spot to the southward of it , near the river . 
Drooping on its staff was the standard of England . 
North and south of the village the emerald common gleamed in the slanting light , speckled red and white and black by grazing cattle . 
Here and there , in untidy brown patches , were Indian settlements , and far away to the westward the tawny Father of Waters gleamed through the cottonwoods . 
Through the waning day the men lay resting under the trees , talking in undertones . 
Some cleaned their rifles , and others lost themselves in conjectures of the attack . 
as the servant of destiny . 
At length , at eventide , the sweet toned bell of the little cathedral rang to vespers , a gentle message of peace to war . 
Colonel Clark looked into my upturned face . 
Davy , do you know what day this is ? '' he asked . 
No , sir , '' I answered . 
'' He put his hand on my head . 
You will remember this when I am dead and gone , '' he said . 
I was silent , awed by the power of his words . 
Darkness fell , and still we waited , impatient for the order . 
The lights of the village twinkled at our feet , and now and then a voice from below was caught and borne upward to us . 
Once another noise startled us , followed by an exclamation , Donnerblitzen'' and a volley of low curses from the company . 
Poor Swein Poulsson had loosed a stone , which had taken a reverberating flight riverward . 
We reached the bottom , and the long file turned and hurried silently northward , searching for a crossing . 
I try to recall my feelings as I trotted beside the tall forms that loomed above me in the night . 
The sense of protection they gave me stripped me of fear , and I was not troubled with that . 
I saw her simple joy at our return . 
But should we return ? My chest tightened , and I sped along the ranks to Harrod's company and caught Tom by the wrist . 
Davy , '' he murmured , and , seizing my hand in his strong grip , pulled me along with him . 
A hail aroused me , the sound of a loud rapping , and I saw in black relief a cabin ahead . 
The door opened , a man came out with a horde of children cowering at his heels , a volley of frightened words pouring from his mouth in a strange tongue . 
John Duff was plying him with questions in French , and presently the man became calmer and lapsed into broken English . 
Kaskaskia yes , she is prepare . 
Many spy is gone out cross la riviere . 
But now they all sleep . 
'' Even as he spoke a shout came faintly from the distant town . 
What is that ? '' demanded Clark , sharply . 
The man shrugged his shoulders . 
Une fete des negres , peut etre , the negro , he dance maybe . 
'' Are you the ferryman ? '' said Clark . 
Oui I have some boat . 
'' We crossed the hundred and fifty yards of sluggish water , squad by squad , and in the silence of the night stood gathered , expectant , on the farther bank . 
Commands were passed about , and men ran this way and that , jostling one another to find their places in a new order . 
The two larger ones were to surround the town , while the picked force under Simon Kenton himself was to storm the fort . 
, I chose the favored column , at the head of which Tom and Cowan and Ray and McCann were striding behind Kenton and Colonel Clark . 
Not a word was spoken . 
There was a kind of cow path that rose and fell and twisted along the river bank . 
This we followed , and in ten minutes we must have covered the mile to the now darkened village . 
The starlight alone outlined against the sky the houses of it as we climbed the bank . 
Then we halted , breathless , in a street , but there was no sound save that of the crickets and the frogs . 
Forward again , and twisting a corner , we beheld the indented edge of the stockade . 
Still no hail , nor had our moccasined feet betrayed us as we sought the river side of the fort and drew up before the big river gates of it . 
Simon Kenton bore against them , and tried the little postern that was set there , but both were fast . 
The spikes towered a dozen feet overhead . 
Quick ! '' muttered Clark , a light man to go over and open the postern . 
'' Before I guessed what was in his mind , Cowan seized me . 
Send the lad , Colonel , '' said he . 
Ay , ay , '' said Simon Kenton , hoarsely . 
In a second Tom was on Kenton's shoulders , and they passed me up with as little trouble as though I had been my own drum . 
As I was feeling vainly for the bolt of the postern , rays of light suddenly shot my shadow against the door . 
Astonishment robbed me of breath as he threw open the postern . 
In the name of the Continental Congress , '' he cried , and seized his gun . 
Clark and Kenton stepped in instantly , no doubt as astounded as I , and had the man in their grasp . 
Who are you ? '' said Clark . 
Name o' Skene , from Pennsylvanya , '' said the man , and by the Lord God ye shall have the fort . 
'' You looked for us ? '' said Clark . 
Faith , never less , '' said the Pennsylvanian . 
The one sentry is at the main gate . 
'' And the governor ? '' Rocheblave ? '' said the Pennsylvanian . 
He sleeps yonder in the old Jesuit house in the middle . 
'' Clark turned to Tom McChesney , who was at his elbow . 
Corporal ! '' said he , swiftly , secure the sentry at the main gate ! You , '' he added , turning to the Pennsylvanian , lead us to the governor . 
But mind , if you betray me , I'll be the first to blow out your brains . 
We halted , and Clark threw himself against the rude panels of the door , which gave to inward blackness . 
Our men filled the little passage , and suddenly we found ourselves in a low ceiled room in front of a great four poster bed . 
And in it , upright , blinking at the light , were two odd Frenchified figures in tasselled nightcaps . 
Astonishment and anger and fear struggled in the faces of Monsieur de Rocheblave and his lady . 
A regard for truth compels me to admit that it was madame who first found her voice , and no uncertain one it was . 
First came a shriek that might have roused the garrison . 
'' And who are you ? '' gasped the commandant . 
George Rogers Clark , Colonel in the service of the Commonwealth of Virginia . 
'' He held out his hand restrainingly , for the furious Monsieur Rocheblave made an attempt to rise . 
You will oblige me by remaining in bed , sir , for a moment . 
'' Coquins ! Canailles ! Cochons ! '' shrieked the lady . 
Madame , '' said Colonel Clark , politely , the necessities of war are often cruel . 
Then he lighted a candle in a brass candlestick that stood on the simple walnut dresser , and bowed again to the outraged couple in the four poster . 
Now , sir , '' he said , you may dress . 
'' Pardieu ! '' said the commandant in French , a hundred thousand thanks . 
'' We had scarcely closed the bedroom door when three shots were heard . 
The signal ! '' exclaimed Clark . 
Immediately a pandemonium broke on the silence of the night that must have struck cold terror in the hearts of the poor Creoles sleeping in their beds . 
In the intervals , in backwoods French , John Duff and his companions were heard in terrifying tones crying out to the habitans to venture out at the peril of their lives . 
None stirred save the few Indians left in the place , and these were brought before Clark in the fort , sullen and defiant , and put in the guard house there . 
And Rocheblave , when he appeared , was no better , and was put back in his house under guard . 
As for the papers in the despatch box , they revealed I know not what briberies of the savage nations and plans of the English . 
But of other papers we found none , though there must have been more . 
Madame Rocheblave was suspected of having hidden some in the inviolable portions of her dress . 
Strange it seemed that war had come to this village , so peaceful and remote . 
And even stranger it seemed to me to see these Arcadian homes in the midst of the fierce wilderness . 
The little houses with their sloping roofs and wide porches , the gardens ablaze with color , the neat palings , all were a restful sight for our weary eyes . 
And now I scarcely knew our commander . 
The odd thing was that he should have bowed to Clark , who was dressed no differently from Bowman and Harrod and Duff and the man's voice trembled piteously as he spoke . 
It needed not John Duff to tell us that he was pleading for the lives of his family . 
He will sell himself as a slave if your Excellency will spare them , '' said Duff , translating . 
But Clark stared at the man sternly . 
And before we had traversed the village the same thing had happened many times . 
We gained the fort again , I wondering greatly why he had not reassured these simple people . 
It was Bowman who asked this question , he being closer to Clark than any of the other captains . 
Clark said nothing then , and began to give out directions for the day . 
But presently he called the Captain aside . 
I must work out the problem for myself . 
Clark , with that touch which made men love him and die for him , laid his hand on the Captain's shoulder . 
Have the men called in by detachments , '' he said , and fed . 
God knows they must be hungry , and you . 
'' Suddenly I remembered that he himself had had nothing . 
Running around the commandant's house to the kitchen door , I came unexpectedly upon Swein Poulsson , who was face to face with the linsey woolsey clad figure of Monsieur Rocheblave's negro cook . 
The early sun cast long shadows of them on the ground . 
By tam , '' my friend was saying , so I vill eat . 
I am choost like an ox for three days , und chew grass . 
Prairie grass , is it ? '' Mo pas capab' , Michie , '' said the cook , with a terrified roll of his white eyes . 
Herr Gott ! '' cried Swein Poulsson , I am red face . 
Aber Herr Gott , I thank thee I am not a nigger . 
Und my hair is bristles , yes . 
, I thank Herr Gott it is not vool . 
Let us in the kitchen go . 
'' I am come to get something for the Colonel's breakfast , '' said I , pushing past the slave , through the open doorway . 
Swein Poulsson followed , and here I struck another contradiction in his strange nature . 
Nor did a mouthful pass his lips until I had sped away with a steaming portion to find the Colonel . 
By this time the men had broken into the storehouse , and the open place was dotted with their breakfast fires . 
Clark was standing alone by the flagstaff , his face careworn . 
But he smiled as he saw me coming . 
What's this ? '' says he . 
Your breakfast , sir , '' I answered . 
I set down the plate and the pot before him and pressed the pewter spoon into his hand . 
Davy , '' said he . 
I was near to fainting at the taste of it . 
Then he took a bit himself , and divided the buffalo steak with his own hands . 
And when from the camp fires they perceived the Colonel and the drummer boy eating together in plain sight of all , they gave a rousing cheer . 
Swein Poulsson helped get your breakfast , sir , and would eat nothing either , '' I ventured . 
Davy , '' said Colonel Clark , gravely , I hope you will be younger when you are twenty . 
'' I hope I shall be bigger , sir , '' I answered gravely . 
CHAPTER XIV HOW THE KASKASKEIANS WERE MADE CITIZENS Never before had such a day dawned upon Kaskaskia . 
With July fierceness the sun beat down upon the village , but man nor woman nor child stirred from the darkened houses . 
What they awaited at the hands of the Long Knives they knew not , captivity , torture , death perhaps . 
The Colonel bids you come to the fort , '' he said , and was gone . 
The church bell rang with slow , ominous strokes , far different from its gentle vesper peal of yesterday . 
Two companies were drawn up in the sun before the old Jesuit house , and presently through the gate a procession came , grave and mournful . 
for the last time , cloth of camlet and Cadiz and Limbourg , white cotton stockings , and brass buckled shoes . 
They came like captives led to execution . 
But at their head a figure held our eye , a figure that spoke of dignity and courage , of trials borne for others . 
It was the village priest in his robes . 
He had a receding forehead and a strong , pointed chin but benevolence was in the curve of his great nose . 
I have many times since seen his type of face in the French prints . 
He and his flock halted before our young Colonel , even as the citizens of Calais in a bygone century must have stood before the English king . 
The scene comes back to me . 
On the other , the sinewy advance guard of a race that knows not peace , whose goddess of liberty carries in her hand a sword . 
The plough might have been graven on our arms , but always the rifle . 
The silence of the trackless wilds reigned while Clark gazed at them sternly . 
And when he spoke it was with the voice of a conqueror , and they listened as the conquered listen , with heads bowed all save the priest . 
As for ourselves , the Long Knives , we came in truth to conquer , and because of their hasty judgment the Kaskaskians were at our mercy . 
The British had told them that the Kentuckians were a barbarous people , and they had believed . 
He paused that John Duff might translate and the gist of what he had said sink in . 
But suddenly the priest had stepped out from the ranks , faced his people , and was himself translating in a strong voice . 
When he had finished a tremor shook the group . 
But he turned calmly and faced Clark once more . 
Knowing that the American cause is just , he is sending his fleets and regiments to fight for it against the British King , who until now has been your sovereign . 
'' Again he paused , and when the priest had told them this , a murmur of astonishment came from the boldest . 
Citizens of Kaskaskia , know you that the Long Knives come not to massacre , as you foolishly believed , but to release from bondage . 
We are come not against you , who have been deceived , but against those soldiers of the British King who have bribed the savages to slaughter our wives and children . 
'' The face of the good priest kindled as he glanced at Clark . 
He turned once more , and though we could not understand his words , the thrill of his eloquence moved us . 
And when he had finished there was a moment's hush of inarticulate joy among his flock , and then such transports as moved strangely the sternest men in our ranks . 
The simple people fell to embracing each other and praising God , the tears running on their cheeks . 
Out of the group came an old man . 
A skullcap rested on his silvered hair , and he felt the ground uncertainly with his gold headed stick . 
Monsieur , '' he said tremulously you will pardon an old man if he show feeling . 
I am born seventy year ago in Gascon . 
I inhabit this country thirty year , and last night I think I not live any longer . 
Last night we make our peace with the good God , and come here to day to die . 
But now we are Americains , '' he cried , his voice pitched high , as he pointed with a trembling arm to the stars and stripes above him . 
Mes enfants , vive les Bostonnais ! Vive les Americains ! Vive Monsieur le Colonel Clark , sauveur de Kaskaskia ! '' The listening village heard the shout and wondered . 
And when it had died down Colonel Clark took the old Gascon by the hand , and not a man of his but saw that this was a master stroke of his genius . 
My friends , '' he said simply , I thank you . 
I would not force you , and you will have some days to think over the oath of allegiance to the Republic . 
Go now to your homes , and tell those who are awaiting you what I have said . 
And if any man of French birth wish to leave this place , he may go of his own free will , save only three whom I suspect are not our friends . 
'' They turned , and in an ecstasy of joy quite pitiful to see went trooping out of the gate . 
But scarce could they have reached the street and we have broken ranks , when we saw them coming back again , the priest leading them as before . 
They drew near to the spot where Clark stood , talking to the captains , and halted expectantly . 
What is it , my friends ? '' asked the Colonel . 
The priest came forward and bowed gravely . 
I am Pere Gibault , sir , '' he said , cure of Kaskaskia . 
'' He paused , surveying our commander with a clear eye . 
There is something that still troubles the good citizens . 
'' And what is that , sir ? '' said Clark . 
If your Excellency will only allow the church to be opened '' he ventured . 
The group stood wistful , fearful that their boldness had displeased , expectant of reprimand . 
My good Father , '' said Colonel Clark , an American commander has but one relation to any church . 
And that is'' to protect it . 
For all religions are equal before the Republic . 
'' The priest gazed at him intently . 
By that answer , '' said he , your Excellency has made for your government loyal citizens in Kaskaskia . 
'' Then the Colonel stepped up to the priest and took him likewise by the hand . 
I have arranged for a house in town , '' said he . 
Monsieur Rocheblave has refused to dine with me there . 
Will you do me that honor , Father ? '' With all my heart , your Excellency , '' said Father Gibault . 
And turning to the people , he translated what the Colonel had said . 
Then their cup of happiness was indeed full , and some ran to Clark and would have thrown their arms about him had he been a man to embrace . 
Hurrying out of the gate , they spread the news like wildfire , and presently the church bell clanged in tones of unmistakable joy . 
'' He had stopped beside two Kaskaskia warriors in scarlet blankets who stood at the corner , watching with silent contempt the antics of the French inhabitants . 
Now and again one or the other gave a grunt and wrapped his blanket more tightly about him . 
Umrrhh ! '' said Terence . 
Faith , I talk that langwidge mesilf when I have throuble . 
'' The warriors stared at him with what might be called a stoical surprise . 
'' We moved on , through such a scene as I have seldom beheld . 
Presently he looked down at me comically . 
Why wuddent ye be doin' the like , Davy ? '' he asked . 
Amusha ! 'tis mesilf that wants to run and hop and skip wid the childher . 
Ye put me in mind of a wizened old man that sat all day makin' shoes in Killarney , all savin' the fringe he had on his chin . 
'' A soldier must be dignified , '' I answered . 
The saints bar that wurrd from hiven , '' said Terence , trying to pronounce it . 
Come , we'll go to mass , or me mother will be visitin' me this night . 
'' We crossed the square and went into the darkened church , where the candles were burning . 
Afterwards Father Gibault mounted to the pulpit and stood for a moment with his hand raised above his flock , and then began to speak . 
What he told them I have learned since . 
And this I know , that when they came out again into the sunlit square they were Americans . 
It matters not when they took the oath . 
As we walked back towards the fort we came to a little house with a flower garden in front of it , and there stood Colonel Clark himself by the gate . 
He stopped us with a motion of his hand . 
I am sending him with Captain Bowman to take Cahokia . 
'' Would you have Terence , sir ? '' I ventured , while Terence grinned . 
Whereupon Colonel Clark sent him to report to his captain that he was detailed for orderly duty to the commanding officer . 
And within half an hour he was standing guard in the flower garden , making grimaces at the children in the street . 
When at length the Colonel had succeeded in bringing their denunciations to an end and they had departed , he looked at me comically as I stood in the doorway . 
Davy , '' said he , all I ask of the good Lord is that He will frighten me incontinently for a month before I die . 
'' I think He would find that difficult , sir , '' I answered . 
Then there's no hope for me , '' he answered , laughing , for I have observed that fright alone brings a man into a fit spiritual state to enter heaven . 
What would you say of those slanderers of Monsieur Cerre ? '' Not expecting an answer , he dipped his quill into the ink pot and turned to his papers . 
I should say that they owed Monsieur Cerre money , '' I replied . 
The Colonel dropped his quill and stared . 
As for me , I was puzzled to know why . 
Egad , '' said Colonel Clark , most of us get by hard knocks what you seem to have been born with . 
Davy , '' says he , I need a commissary general . 
'' What would that be , sir , '' I asked . 
'' And doesn't Congress make money , sir ? '' I asked . 
That they do , Davy , by the ton , '' he replied , and so must we , as the rulers of a great province . 
For mark me , though the men are happy to day , in four days they will be grumbling and trying to desert in dozens . 
'' We were interrupted by a knock at the door , and there stood Terence McCann . 
His riverence ! '' he announced , and bowed low as the priest came into the room . 
I was bid by Colonel Clark to sit down and dine with them on the good things which Monsieur Rocheblave's cook had prepared . 
the commandant's precious coffee which had been sent to him from far away New Orleans . 
I know them , from Quebec to Detroit and Michilimackinac and Saint Vincennes . 
Listen , monsieur , '' he cried , his homely face alight I myself will go to Saint Vincennes for you . 
I will tell them the truth , and you shall have the post for the asking . 
For a century the missionaries of the Church have walked this wilderness alone with God . 
Often they have suffered , and often died in tortures but gladly . 
'' Colonel Clark regarded the man intently . 
The cause of liberty , both religious and civil , is our cause , '' Father Gibault continued . 
Men have died for it , and will die for it , and it will prosper . 
Furthermore , Monsieur , my life has not known many wants . 
I have saved something to keep my old age , with which to buy a little house and an orchard in this peaceful place . 
The sum I have is at your service . 
The good Congress will repay me . 
And you need the money . 
'' Colonel Clark was not an impulsive man , but he felt none the less deeply , as I know well . 
His reply to this generous offer was almost brusque , but it did not deceive the priest . 
Nay , monsieur , '' he said , it is for mankind I give it , in remembrance of Him who gave everything . 
And though I receive nothing in return , I shall have my reward an hundred fold . 
As he was rising to take his leave , Pere Gibault put his hand on my head . 
I saw your Excellency's son in the church this morning , '' he said . 
Colonel Clark laughed and gave me a pinch . 
My dear sir , '' he said , the boy is old enough to be my father . 
'' The priest looked down at me with a puzzled expression in his brown eyes . 
I would I had him for my son , '' said Colonel Clark , kindly but the lad is eleven , and I shall not be twenty six until next November . 
'' Your Excellency not twenty six ! '' cried Father Gibault , in astonishment . 
What will you be when you are thirty ? '' The young Colonel's face clouded . 
God knows ! '' he said . 
Father Gibault dropped his eyes and turned to me with native tact . 
What would you like best to do , my son ? '' he asked . 
I should like to learn to speak French , '' said I , for I had been much irritated at not understanding what was said in the streets . 
And so you shall , '' said Father Gibault I myself will teach you . 
You must come to my house to day . 
'' And Davy will teach me , '' said the Colonel . 
CHAPTER XV DAYS OF TRIAL But I was not immediately to take up the study of French . 
Things began to happen in Kaskaskia . 
Some few miles from Cahokia , on the western bank of the Father of Waters , was the little French village of St . 
Louis , in the Spanish territory of Louisiana . 
From thence eastward stretched the great waste of prairie and forest inhabited by roving bands of the forty Indian nations . 
Then you come to Vincennes on the Wabash , Fort St . 
Vincent , the English and Canadians called it , for there were a few of the latter who had settled in Kaskaskia since the English occupation . 
The best map which the editor has found of this district is in vol . 
VI , Part , of Winsor's Narrative and Critical History of America , '' p . 
Things began to happen in Kaskaskia . 
It would have been strange indeed if things had not happened . 
Many had left families in the frontier forts without protection . 
The time of their enlistment had almost expired . 
There was a store in the village kept by a great citizen , not a citizen of Kaskaskia alone , but a citizen of the world . 
This , I am aware , sounds like fiction , like an attempt to get an effect which was not there . 
But it is true as gospel . 
The owner of this store had many others scattered about in this foreign country at Vincennes , at St . 
Louis , where he resided , at Cahokia . 
He knew Michilimackinac and Quebec and New Orleans . 
He had been born some thirty one years before in Sardinia , had served in the Spanish army , and was still a Spanish subject . 
The name of this famous gentleman was Monsieur Francois Vigo , and he was the Rothschild of the country north of the Ohio . 
Monsieur Vigo , though he merited it , I had not room to mention in the last chapter . 
Monsieur Vigo's store was the village club . 
It had neither glass in the window nor an attractive display of goods it was merely a log cabin set down on a weedy , sun baked plot . 
The stuffy smell of skins and furs came out of the doorway . 
As the days wore into months , Monsieur Vigo's place very naturally became the headquarters for our army , if army it might be called . 
Of a morning a dozen would be sitting against the logs in the black shadow , and in the midst of them always squatted an unsavory Indian squaw . 
A few braves usually stood like statues at the corner , and in front of the door another group of hunting shirts . 
Without was the paper money of the Continental Congress , within the good tafia and tobacco of Monsieur Vigo . 
One day Monsieur Vigo's young Creole clerk stood shrugging his shoulders in the doorway . 
By tam ! '' Swein Poulsson was crying to the clerk , as he waved a worthless scrip above his head . 
Vat is money ? '' This definition the clerk , not being a Doctor Johnson , was unable to give offhand . 
Vat are you , choost ? Is it America ? '' demanded Poulsson , while the others looked on , some laughing , some serious . 
And vich citizen are you since you are ours ? You vill please to give me one carrot of tobacco . 
'' And he thrust the scrip under the clerk's nose . 
The clerk stared at the uneven lettering on the scrip with disdain . 
Money , '' he exclaimed scornfully , she is not money . 
Piastre Spanish dollare then I give you carrot . 
'' Hooray , Bill , ye're right , '' cried several of our men . 
Lemme in here , '' said Cowan . 
But the frightened Creole blocked the doorway . 
Sacre' ! '' he screamed , and then , Voleurs ! '' The excitement drew a number of people from the neighborhood . 
Nay , it seemed as if the whole town was ringed about us . 
Bravo , Jules ! '' they cried , garde tu la porte . 
A bas les Bostonnais ! A bas les voleurs ! '' Damn such monkey talk , '' said Cowan , facing them suddenly . 
I knew him well , and when the giant lost his temper it was gone irrevocably until a fight was over . 
Call a man a squar' name . 
'' Hey , Frenchy , '' another of our men put in , stalking up to the clerk , I reckon this here store's ourn , ef we've a mind to tek it . 
I 'low you'll give us the rum and the 'bacey . 
Come on , boys ! '' In between him and the clerk leaped a little , robin like man with a red waistcoat , beside himself with rage . 
I would as soon have touched him as a ball of angry bees or a pair of fighting wildcats . 
There was no question of a fight . 
, and there the man stuck , clinging to a loose shingle , purpling and coughing and spitting with rage . 
Cowan thrust me past the clerk into the store , where I stood listening to the little man on the roof , scratching and clutching at the shingles , and coughing still . 
But there was no fight . 
He was not in the least excited . 
Come in , my frens , '' he said it is too hot in the sun . 
'' And he set the example by stepping over the sill on to the hard baked earth of the floor within . 
Ah , '' he said , the boy of Monsieur le Colonel ! And how are you called , my son ? '' he added , patting me kindly . 
Davy , sir , '' I answered . 
Ha , '' he said , and a brave soldier , no doubt . 
'' I was flattered as well as astonished by this attention . 
But Monsieur Vigo knew men , and he had given them time to turn around . 
By this time Bill Cowan and some of my friends had stooped through the doorway , followed by a prying Kaskaskian brave and as many Creoles as could crowd behind them . 
Monsieur Vigo was surprisingly calm . 
It make hot weather , my frens , '' said he . 
How can I serve you , messieurs ? '' Hain't the Congress got authority here ? '' said one . 
I am happy to say , '' answered Monsieur Vigo , rubbing his hands , for I think much of your principle . 
'' Then , '' said the man , we come here to trade with Congress money . 
Hain't that money good in Kaskasky ? '' There was an anxious pause . 
Then Monsieur Vigo's eyes twinkled , and he looked at me . 
And what you say , Davy ? '' he asked . 
The money would be good if you took it , sir , '' I said , not knowing what else to answer . 
Sapristi ! '' exclaimed Monsieur Vigo , looking hard at me . 
Who teach you that ? '' No one , sir , '' said I , staring in my turn . 
And if Congress lose , and not pay , where am I , mon petit maitre de la haute finance ? '' demanded Monsieur Vigo , with the palms of his hands outward . 
You will be in good company , sir , '' said I. At that he threw back his head and laughed , and Bill Cowan and my friends laughed with him . 
Good company c'est la plupart de la vie , '' said Monsieur Vigo . 
And I found out later that he and the others had actually given to me the credit of this coup . 
He never failed us yet . 
Hain't that truth , boys ? Hain't we a goin' on to St . 
At noon you come back , '' said Monsieur Vigo . 
I think till then about rate of exchange , and talk with your Colonel . 
Davy , you stay here . 
'' I remained , while the others filed out , and at length I was alone with him and Jules , his clerk . 
Davy , how you like to be trader ? '' asked Monsieur Vigo . 
It was a new thought to me , and I turned it over in my mind . 
And suddenly the thought came to me that I was a traitor to my friends , a deserter from the little army that loved me so well . 
Eh bien ? '' said Monsieur Vigo . 
I shook my head , but in spite of me I felt the tears welling into my eyes and brushed them away shamefully . 
At such times of stress some of my paternal Scotch crept into my speech . 
I will no be leaving Colonel Clark and the boys , '' I cried , not for all the money in the world . 
'' Congress money ? '' said Monsieur Vigo , with a queer expression . 
It was then I laughed through my tears , and that cemented the friendship between us . 
It was a lifelong friendship , though I little suspected it then . 
In the days that followed he never met me on the street that he did not stop to pass the time of day , and ask me if I had changed my mind . 
He came every morning to headquarters , where he and Colonel Clark sat by the hour with brows knit . 
Monsieur Vigo was as good as his word , and took the Congress money , though not at such a value as many would have had him . 
I have often thought that we were all children then , and knew nothing of the ingratitude of republics . 
Monsieur Vigo took the money , and was all his life many , many thousand dollars the poorer . 
Father Gibault advanced his little store , and lived to feel the pangs of want . 
And Colonel Clark ? But I must not go beyond the troubles of that summer , and the problems that vexed our commander . 
One night I missed him from the room where we slept , and walking into the orchard found him pacing there , where the moon cast filmy shadows on the grass . 
By day as he went around among the men his brow was unclouded , though his face was stern . 
But now I surprised the man so strangely moved that I yearned to comfort him . 
He had taken three turns before he perceived me . 
Davy , '' he said , what are you doing here ? '' I missed you , sir , '' I answered , staring at the furrows in his face . 
Come ! '' he said almost roughly , and seizing my hand , led me back and forth swiftly through the wet grass for I know not how long . 
The moon dipped to the uneven line of the ridge pole and slipped behind the stone chimney . 
All at once he stopped , dropped my hand , and smote both of his together . 
I WILL hold on , by the eternal ! '' he cried . 
I will let no American read his history and say that I abandoned this land . 
Let them desert ! If ten men be found who will stay , I will hold the place for the Republic . 
'' Will not Virginia and the Congress send you men , sir ? '' I asked wonderingly . 
He laughed a laugh that was all bitterness . 
Virginia and the Continental Congress know little and care less about me , '' he answered . 
Some day you will learn that foresight sometimes comes to men , but never to assemblies . 
But it is often given to one man to work out the salvation of a people , and be destroyed for it . 
Davy , we have been up too long . 
'' At the morning parade , from my wonted place at the end of the line , I watched him with astonishment , reviewing the troops as usual . 
For the very first day I had crossed the river with Terence , climbed the heights to the old fort , and returned with my drum . 
But no sooner had I beaten the retreat than the men gathered here and there in groups that smouldered with mutiny , and I noted that some of the officers were amongst these . 
Once in a while a sentence like a flaming brand was flung out . 
Their time was up , their wives and children for all they knew sculped by the red varmints , and , by the etarnal , Clark or no man living could keep them . 
Hi , '' said one , as I passed , here's Davy with his drum . 
He'll be leadin' us back to Kaintuck in the morning . 
'' Ay , ay , '' cried another man in the group , I reckon he's had his full of tyranny , too . 
'' I stopped , my face blazing red . 
Shame on you for those words ! '' I shouted shrilly . 
Shame on you , you fools , to desert the man who would save your wives and children . 
How are the redskins to be beaten if they are not cowed in their own country ? '' For I had learned much at headquarters . 
They stood silent , astonished , no doubt , at the sight of my small figure a tremble with anger . 
I heard Bill Cowan's voice behind me . 
There's truth for ye , '' he said , that will slink home when a thing's half done . 
'' Ye needn't talk , Bill Cowan it's well enough for ye . 
I reckon your wife'd scare any redskin off her clearin' . 
'' Many the time she scart me , '' said Bill Cowan . 
And so the matter went by with a laugh . 
But the grumbling continued , and the danger was that the French would learn of it . 
The day passed , yet the embers blazed not into the flame of open mutiny . 
But he who has seen service knows how ominous is the gathering of men here and there , the low humming talk , the silence when a dissenter passes . 
What did Clark intend to do ? This was the question that hung in the minds of mutineer and faithful alike . 
They knew the desperation of his case . 
Few men dare to set their will against a multitude when there are no fruits to be won . 
Columbus persisted , and found a new world Clark persisted , and won an empire for thoughtless generations to enjoy . 
That night he slept not at all , but sat , while the candles flickered in their sockets , poring over maps and papers . 
I dared not disturb him , but lay the darkness through with staring eyes . 
And when the windows on the orchard side showed a gray square of light , he flung down the parchment he was reading on the table . 
It rolled up of itself , and he pushed back his chair . 
I heard him call my name , and leaping out of bed , I stood before him . 
You sleep lightly , Davy , '' he said , I think to try me . 
I did not answer , fearing to tell him that I had been awake watching him . 
I have one friend , at least , '' said the Colonel . 
You have many , sir , '' I answered , as you will find when the time comes . 
'' The time has come , '' said he to day I shall be able to count them . 
Davy , I want you to do something for me . 
'' Now , sir ? '' I answered , overjoyed . 
As soon as the sun strikes that orchard , '' he said , pointing out of the window . 
You have learned how to keep things to yourself . 
Now I want you to impart them to others . 
Go out , and tell the village that I am going away . 
'' That you are going away , sir ? '' I repeated . 
, with my army and my drummer boy and my paper money . 
'' I stared at him doubtfully , for at times a pleasantry came out of his bitterness . 
Ay , '' he said , go ! Have you any love for me ? '' I have , sir , '' I answered . 
By the Lord , I believe you , '' he said , and picking up my small hunting shirt , he flung it at me . 
Put it on , and go when the sun rises . 
'' As the first shaft of light over the bluff revealed the diamonds in the orchard grass I went out , wondering . 
SUSPECTING would be a better word for the nature I had inherited . 
But I had my orders . 
Terence was pacing the garden , his leggings turned black with the dew . 
Here was a vessel to disseminate . 
Terence , the Colonel is going back to Virginia with the army . 
'' Him ! '' cried Terence , dropping the stock of his Deckard to the ground . 
And back to Kaintuckee ! Arrah , 'tis a sin to be jokin' before a man has a bit in his sthummick . 
Bad cess to yere plisantry before breakfast . 
'' I'm telling you what the Colonel himself told me , '' I answered , and ran on . 
Davy , darlin' ! '' I heard him calling after me as I turned the corner , but I looked not back . 
There was a single sound in the street . 
A thin , bronzed Indian lad squatted against the pickets with his fingers on a reed , his cheeks distended . 
He broke off with a wild , mournful note to stare at me . 
A wisp of smoke stole from a stone chimney , and the smell that corn pone and bacon leave was in the air . 
Breathing the morning air in the doorway , stood a young woman in a cotton gown , a saucepan in hand . 
She had inquisitive eyes , a pointed , prying nose , and I knew her to be the village gossip , the wife of Jules , Monsieur Vigo's clerk . 
She had the same smattering of English as her husband . 
Now she stood regarding me narrowly between half closed lids . 
A la bonne heure ! Que fais tu donc ? What do you do so early ? '' The garrison is getting ready to leave for Kentucky to day , '' I answered . 
Ha , e'est Daveed ! '' he said . 
What news have you ? '' I repeated , whereupon they both began to lament . 
And why is it ? '' persisted Jules . 
He has such faith in the loyalty of the Kaskaskians , '' I answered , parrot like . 
Diable ! '' cried Jules , we shall perish . 
We shall be as the Acadians . 
And loyalty she will not save us , no . 
Other inhabitants came in varied costumes into the street to hear the news , lamenting . 
If Clark left , the day of judgment was at hand for them , that was certain . 
Between the savage and the Briton not one stone would be left standing on another . 
Madame Jules forgot her breakfast , and fled up the street with the tidings . 
And then I made my way to the fort , where the men were gathering about the camp fires , talking excitedly . 
Terence , relieved from duty , had done the work here . 
And he as little as a fox , wid all that in him , '' he cried , when he perceived me walking demurely past the sentry . 
Davy , dear , come here an' tell the b'ys am I a liar . 
'' Davy's monstrous cute , '' said Bill Cowan I reckon he knows as well as me the Colonel hain't a goin' to do no such tomfool thing as leave . 
'' He is , '' I cried , for the benefit of some others , he's fair sick of grumblers that haven't got the grit to stand by him in trouble . 
'' By the Lord ! '' said Bill Cowan , and I'll not blame him . 
'' He turned fiercely , his face reddening . 
Shame on ye all yere lives , '' he shouted . 
Ye're making the best man that ever led a regiment take the back trail . 
Ye'll fetch back to Kaintuck , and draw every redskin in the north woods suckin' after ye like leaves in a harricane wind . 
There hain't a man of ye has the pluck of this little shaver that beats the drum . 
I wish to God McChesney was here . 
'' He turned away to cross the parade ground , followed by the faithful Terence and myself . 
Begob ! '' said Terence , Davy has inflooence wid his Excellency . 
It's Davy we'll sind , prayin' him not to lave the Frinch alone wid their loyalty . 
'' It was agreed , and I was to repeat the name of every man that sent me . 
Departing on this embassy , I sped out of the gates of the fort . 
But , as I approached the little house where Clark lived , the humming of a crowd came to my ears , and I saw with astonishment that the street was blocked . 
It appeared that the whole of the inhabitants of Kaskaskia were packed in front of the place . 
They stopped , and Monsieur Vigo , raising his hand for silence , made a speech in French to the people . 
What he said I could not understand , and when he had finished they broke up into groups , and many of them departed . 
Before I could gain the house , Colonel Clark himself came out with Captain Helm and Captain Harrod . 
The Colonel glanced at me and smiled . 
Parade , Davy , '' he said , and walked on . 
I ran back to the fort , and when I had gotten my drum the three companies were falling into line , the men murmuring in undertones among themselves . 
They were brought to attention . 
Colonel Clark was seen to come out of the commandant's house , and we watched him furtively as he walked slowly to his place in front of the line . 
A tremor of excitement went from sergeant to drummer boy . 
The sentries closed the big gates of the fort . 
The Colonel stood for a full minute surveying us calmly , a disquieting way he had when matters were at a crisis . 
Then he began to talk . 
I have heard from many sources that you are dissatisfied , that you wish to go back to Kentucky . 
If that be so , I say to you , Go , and God be with you . 
I will hinder no man . 
We have taken a brave and generous people into the fold of the Republic , and they have shown their patriotism by giving us freely of their money and stores . 
'' He raised his voice . 
They have given the last proof of that patriotism this day . 
Yes , they have come to me and offered to take your places , to finish the campaign which you have so well begun and wish to abandon . 
To day I shall enroll their militia under the flag for which you have fought . 
'' When he had ceased speaking a murmur ran through the ranks . 
The rest of you shall march for Kentucky , '' he cried , as soon as Captain Bowman's company can be relieved at Cahokia . 
'' For a moment they remained in ranks , as though stupefied . 
It was Cowan who stepped out first , snatched his coonskin hat from his head , and waved it in the air . 
Huzzay for Colonel Clark ! '' he roared . 
I'll foller him into Canady , and stand up to my lick log . 
The Colonel stood by the door , and there came a light in his eyes as he regarded us . 
Thank you , lads , '' he said remember , we may have to whistle for our pay . 
'' Damn the pay ! cried Bill Cowan , and we echoed the sentiment . 
We'll see what can be done about land grants , '' said the Colonel , and he turned away . 
At dusk that evening I sat on the back door step , by the orchard , cleaning his rifle . 
The sound of steps came from the little passage behind me , and a hand was on my head . 
, do you know what is un coup d'e'tat ? '' No , sir . 
'' Ha ! You execute one to day . 
Is it not so , Monsieur le Colonel ? '' I reckon he was in the secret , '' said Colonel Clark . 
Did you think I meant to leave Kaskaskia , Davy ? '' No , sir . 
'' He is not so easy fool , '' Monsieur Vigo put in . 
He tell me paper money good if I take it . 
C'est la haute finance ! '' Colonel Clark laughed . 
And why didn't you think I meant to leave ? '' said he . 
Because you bade me go out and tell everybody , '' I answered . 
What you really mean to do you tell no one . 
'' Nom du bon Dieu ! '' exclaimed Monsieur Vigo . 
Yesterday Colonel Clark had stood alone , the enterprise for which he had risked all on the verge of failure . 
By a master stroke his ranks were repleted , his position recovered , his authority secured once more . 
Few men recognize genius when they see it . 
Monsieur Vigo was not one of these . 
CHAPTER XVI DAVY GOES TO CAHOKIA I should make but a poor historian , for I have not stuck to my chronology . 
But as I write , the vivid recollections are those that I set down . 
I have forgotten two things of great importance . 
First , the departure of Father Gibault with several Creole gentlemen and a spy of Colonel Clark's for Vincennes , and their triumphant return in August . 
The sacrifice of the good priest had not been in vain , and he came back with the joyous news of a peaceful conquest . 
The stars and stripes now waved over the fort , and the French themselves had put it there . 
And the vast stretch of country from that place westward to the Father of Waters was now American . 
And that brings me to the second oversight . 
The surprise and conquest of Cahokia by Bowman and his men was like that of Kaskaskia . 
And the French there were loyal , too , offering their militia for service in the place of those men of Bowman's company who would not reenlist . 
Captain Leonard Helm was sent to take charge of Vincennes , and Captain Montgomery set out across the mountains for Williamsburg with letters praying the governor of Virginia to come to our assistance . 
For another cloud had risen in the horizon another problem for Clark to face of greater portent than all the others . 
A messenger from Captain Bowman at Cohos came riding down the street on a scraggly French pony , and pulled up before headquarters . 
The messenger was Sergeant Thomas McChesney , and his long legs almost reached the ground on either side of the little beast . 
Leaping from the saddle , he seized me in his arms , set me down , and bade me tell Colonel Clark of his arrival . 
It was a sultry August morning . 
The heat haze shimmered in the distance , and there was no sound in plain or village save the tinkle of a cowbell from the clumps of shade . 
Colonel Clark rode twenty paces in front , alone , his head bowed with thinking . 
They're coming into Cahokia as thick as bees out'n a gum , Davy , '' said Tom seems like there's thousands of 'em . 
Nothin' will do 'em but they must see the Colonel , the varmints . 
And they've got patience , they'll wait thar till the b'ars git fat . 
I reckon they 'low Clark's got the armies of Congress behind him . 
'' The savages in Cahokia were as the leaves of the forest . 
Curiosity , that mainspring of the Indian character , had brought the chiefs , big and little , to see with their own eyes the great Captain of the Long Knives . 
In vain had the faithful Bowman put them off . 
And Clark was coming , for he was not the man to quail at such a crisis . 
For the crux of the whole matter was here . 
And if he failed to impress them with his power , with the might of the Congress for which he fought , no man of his would ever see Kentucky again . 
Tom had written her , painfully enough , an affectionate scrawl , which he sent by one of Captain Linn's men . 
And I , too , had written . 
My letter had been about Tom , and how he had become a sergeant , and what a favorite he was with Bowman and the Colonel . 
Tom pulled it from the bosom of his hunting shirt to show me , and in it was a little ring of hair like unto the finest spun red gold . 
This was the message Polly Ann had sent , a message from little Tom as well . 
At Prairie du Rocher , at St . 
, I gazed for the first time in awe at the turgid flood of the Mississippi , and at the lands of the Spanish king beyond . 
With never ceasing fury the river tore at his clay banks and worried the green islands that braved his charge . 
And my boyish fancy pictured to itself the monsters which might lie hidden in his muddy depths . 
We lay that night in the open at a spring on the bluffs , and the next morning beheld the church tower of Cahokia . 
A little way from the town we perceived an odd gathering on the road , the yellowed and weathered hunting shirts of Bowman's company mixed with the motley dress of the Creole volunteers . 
Some of these gentlemen wore the costume of coureurs du bois , others had odd regimental coats and hats which had seen much service . 
So escorted , we crossed at the mill , came to a shady street that faced the little river , and stopped at the stone house where Colonel Clark was to abide . 
On that day , and for many days more , that street was thronged with warriors . 
Chiefs in gala dress strutted up and down , feathered and plumed and blanketed , smeared with paint , bedecked with rude jewellery , earrings and bracelets . 
All day long the great chiefs sought an audience with him , but he sent them word that matters would be settled in the council that was to come . 
All day long the warriors lined the picket fence in front of the house , and more than once Tom McChesney roughly shouldered a lane through them that timid visitors might pass . 
Like a pack of wolves , they watched narrowly for any sign of weakness . 
As for Tom , they were to him as so many dogs . 
Ye varmints ! '' he cried , I'll take a blizz'rd at ye if ye don't keep the way clear . 
'' At that they would give back grudgingly with a chorus of grunts , only to close in again as tightly as before . 
But they came to have a wholesome regard for the sun browned man with the red hair who guarded the Colonel's privacy . 
, was a never ending source of comment among them . 
Once Colonel Clark sent for me . 
The little front room of this house was not unlike the one we had occupied at Kaskaskia . 
It had bare walls , a plain table and chairs , and a crucifix in the corner . 
It served as dining room , parlor , bedroom , for there was a pallet too . 
Now the table was covered with parchments and papers , and beside Colonel Clark sat a grave gentleman of about his own age . 
As I came into the room Colonel Clark relaxed , turned toward this gentleman , and said Monsieur Gratiot , behold my commissary general , my strategist , my financier . 
'' And Monsieur Gratiot smiled . 
He struck me as a man who never let himself go sufficiently to laugh . 
Ah , '' he said , Vigo has told me how he settled the question of paper money . 
He might do something for the Congress in the East . 
'' Davy is a Scotchman , like John Law , '' said the Colonel , and he is a master at perceiving a man's character and business . 
What would you call me , at a venture , Davy ? '' asked Monsieur Gratiot . 
He spoke excellent English , with only a slight accent . 
A citizen of the world , like Monsieur Vigo , '' I answered at a hazard . 
Pardieu ! '' said Monsieur Gratiot , you are not far away . 
Like Monsieur Vigo I keep a store here at Cahokia . 
Like Monsieur Vigo , I have travelled much in my day . 
Do you know where Switzerland is , Davy ? '' I did not . 
And when the sun sets on those snows they are rubies , and the skies above them sapphire . 
'' I was born amongst the mountains , sir , '' I answered , my pulse quickening at his description , but they were not so high as those you speak of . 
'' Then , '' said Monsieur Gratiot , you can understand a little my sorrow as a lad when I left it . 
'' And he waved his arm at the line of peering red faces by the pickets . 
Monsieur Gratiot smiled at Clark . 
And there's another point of resemblance between myself and Monsieur Vigo . 
'' Have you taken the paper money ? '' I demanded . 
Monsieur Gratiot slapped his linen breeches . 
That I have , '' and this time I thought he was going to laugh . 
But he did not , though his eyes sparkled . 
Davy , '' said Colonel Clark , we have had enough of predictions for the present . 
Fetch this letter to Captain Bowman at the garrison up the street . 
'' He handed me the letter . 
Avast ! '' cried the Colonel , as I was going out . 
And why not ? '' If I show that I am not afraid of them , sir , they will think that you are the less so . 
'' There you are for strategy , Gratiot , '' said Colonel Clark , laughing . 
Get out , you rascal . 
'' Tom was more concerned when I appeared . 
Don't pester 'em , Davy , '' said he fer God's sake don't pester 'em . 
They're spoilin' fer a fight . 
Stand back thar , ye critters , '' he shouted , brandishing his rifle in their faces . 
Ugh , I reckon it wouldn't take a horse or a dog to scent ye to day . 
Rank b'ar's oil ! Kite along , Davy . 
'' Clutching the letter tightly , I slipped between the narrowed ranks , and gained the middle of the street , not without a quickened beat of my heart . 
Thence I sped , dodging this group and that , until I came to the long log house that was called the garrison . 
Here our men were stationed , where formerly a squad from an English regiment was quartered . 
For a single mischance might set the tide running to massacre . 
I was nearing the gate again , the dust flying from my moccasined feet , the sight of the stalwart Tom giving me courage again . 
Suddenly , with the deftness of a panther , an Indian shot forward and lifted me high in his arms . 
To this day I recall my terror as I dangled in mid air , staring into a hideous face . 
By intuition I kicked him in the stomach with all my might , and with a howl of surprise and rage his fingers gripped into my flesh . 
The next thing I remember was being in the dust , suffocated by that odor which he who has known it can never forget . 
A medley of discordant cries was in my ears . 
Then I was snatched up , bumped against heads and shoulders , and deposited somewhere . 
Now it was Tom's face that was close to mine , and the light of a fierce anger was in his blue eyes . 
Did they hurt ye , Davy ? '' he asked . 
Before I could speak he was at the gate again , confronting the mob of savages that swayed against the fence , and the street was filled with running figures . 
A voice of command that I knew well came from behind me . 
Stay where you are , McChesney ! '' he shouted , and Tom halted with his hand on the latch . 
With your permission , I will speak to them , '' said Monsieur Gratiot , who had come out also . 
I looked up at him , and he was as calm as when he had joked with me a quarter of an hour since . 
Very well , '' said Clark , briefly . 
Monsieur Gratiot surveyed them scornfully . 
Where is the Hungry Wolf , who speaks English ? '' he said . 
There was a stir in the rear ranks , and a lean savage with abnormal cheek bones pushed forward . 
Hungry Wolf here , '' he said with a grunt . 
The Hungry Wolf knew the French trader at Michilimackinac , '' said Monsieur Gratiot . 
He knows that the French trader's word is a true word . 
Let the Hungry Wolf tell his companions that the Chief of the Long Knives is very angry . 
'' The Hungry Wolf turned , and began to speak . 
His words , hoarse and resonant , seemed to come from the depths of his body . 
Presently he paused , and there came an answer from the fiend who had seized me . 
After that there were many grunts , and the Hungry Wolf turned again . 
The North Wind mean no harm , '' he answered . 
He play with the son of the Great White Chief , and his belly is very sore where the Chief's son kicked him . 
'' The Chief of the Long Knives will consider the offence , '' said Monsieur Gratiot , and retired into the house with Colonel Clark . 
For a full five minutes the Indians waited , impassive . 
And then Monsieur Gratiot reappeared , alone . 
The Chief of the Long Knives is mercifully inclined to forgive , '' he said . 
But there must be no more play with the Chief's son . 
And the path to the Great Chief's presence must be kept clear . 
'' Again the Hungry Wolf translated . 
The North Wind grunted and departed in silence , followed by many of his friends . 
And indeed for a while after that the others kept a passage clear to the gate . 
As for the son of the Great White Chief , he sat for a long time that afternoon beside the truck patch of the house . 
And presently he slipped out by a byway into the street again , among the savages . 
His heart was bumping in his throat , but a boyish reasoning told him that he must show no fear . 
And that day he found what his Colonel had long since learned to be true that in courage is the greater safety . 
The power of the Great White Chief was such that he allowed his son to go forth alone , and feared not for his life . 
Even so Clark himself walked among them , nor looked to right or left . 
There was no haste in what he did , no uneasiness in his manner . 
He listened to the advice of Monsieur Gratiot and other Creole gentlemen of weight , to the Spanish officers who came in their regimentals from St . 
Louis out of curiosity to see how this man would treat with the tribes . 
For he spoke of his intentions to none of them , and gained the more respect by it . 
Within the week the council began and the scene of the great drama was a field near the village , the background of forest trees . 
Few plays on the world's stage have held such suspense , few battles such excitement for those who watched . 
Here was the spectacle of one strong man's brain pitted against the combined craft of the wilderness . 
In the midst of a stretch of waving grass was a table , and a young man of six and twenty sat there alone . 
Around him were ringed the gathered tribes , each chief in the order of his importance squatted in the inner circle , their blankets making patches of bright color against the green . 
Behind the tribes was the little group of hunting shirts , the men leaning on the barrels of their long rifles , indolent but watchful . 
Here and there a gay uniform of a Spanish or Creole officer , and behind these all the population of the village that dared to show itself . 
The ceremonies began with the kindling of the council fire , a rite handed down through unknown centuries of Indian usage . 
By it nations had been made and unmade , broad lands passed , even as they now might pass . 
The yellow of its crackling flames was shamed by the summer sun , and the black smoke of it was wafted by the south wind over the forest . 
Then for three days the chiefs spoke , and a man listened , unmoved . 
The sound of these orations , wild and fearful to my boyish ear , comes back to me now . 
Yet there was a cadence in it , a music of notes now falling , now rising to a passion and intensity that thrilled us . 
had besought them to take up the bloody hatchet . 
They had listened to the lies which the bad birds had told of the Big Knives , they had taken their presents . 
But now the Great Spirit in His wisdom had brought themselves and the Chief of the Big Knives together . 
they stamped on the bloody belt , and rent in pieces the emblems of the White King across the water . 
So said the interpreters , as the chiefs one after another tore the miniature British flags which had been given them into bits . 
On the evening of the third day the White Chief rose in his chair , gazing haughtily about him . 
There was a deep silence . 
Tell your chiefs , '' he said , tell your chiefs that to morrow I will give them an answer . 
And upon the manner in which they receive that answer depends the fate of your nations . 
'' They rose and , thronging around him , sought to take his hand . 
But Clark turned from them . 
Peace is not yet come , '' he said sternly . 
It is time to take the hand when the heart is given with it . 
'' A feathered headsman of one of the tribes gave back with dignity and spoke . 
It is well said by the Great Chief of the Pale Faces , '' he answered these in truth are not the words of a man with a double tongue . 
'' So they sought their quarters for the night , and suspense hung breathless over the village . 
There were many callers at the stone house that evening , Spanish officers , Creole gentlemen , an English Canadian trader or two . 
With my elbow on the sill of the open window I watched them awhile , listening with a boy's eagerness to what they had to say of the day's doings . 
Clark sat alone , a little apart , silent save a word now and then in a low tone to Monsieur Gratiot or Captain Bowman . 
Here was an odd assortment of the races which had overrun the new world . 
You have done much , sir , '' said the Spanish commandant of St . 
Louis , but the savage , he will never be content without present . 
He will never be won without present . 
'' Clark was one of those men who are perforce listened to when they begin to speak . 
Here are copies of the English treaties that I have secured , and in them thousands of sovereigns have been thrown away . 
They are so much waste paper . 
Gentlemen , the Indians are children . 
If you give them presents , they believe you to be afraid of them . 
I will deal with them without presents and if I had the gold of the Bank of England stored in the garrison there , they should not touch a piece of it . 
'' But Captain de Leyba , incredulous , raised his eyebrows and shrugged . 
Like many another citizen of Cahokia , Mr. Brady was terror ridden . 
To night they had made a fire in this Mr. Brady's flower garden , over which they were cooking venison steaks . 
I stood looking at him with my legs apart , for the son of the Great Chief must not run away . 
And I marked that the North Wind had two great ornamental daubs like shutter fastenings painted on his cheeks . 
I sniffed preparation , too , on his followers , and I was sure they were getting ready for some new deviltry . 
Some were painting themselves , others cleaning their rifles and sharpening their scalping knives . 
Now and again a silent brave passed , paused a moment to survey them gravely , grunted an answer to something they would fling at him , and went on . 
At length arrived three chiefs whom I knew to be high in the councils . 
The North Wind came out to them , and the four blanketed forms stood silhouetted between me and the fire for a quarter of an hour . 
By this time I was sure of a plot , and fled away to another tree for fear of detection . 
At length stalked through the street the Hungry Wolf , the interpreter . 
I knew this man to be friendly to Clark , and I acted on impulse . 
He gave a grunt of surprise when I halted before him . 
I made up my mind . 
The son of the Great Chief knows that the Puans have wickedness in their hearts to night , '' I said the tongue of the Hungry Wolf does not lie . 
'' The big Indian drew back with another grunt , and the distant firelight flashed on his eyes as on polished black flints . 
For a lad is imitative by nature , and I had not listened to the interpreters for three days without profit . 
The Hungry Wolf grunted again , after which he was silent for a long time . 
Then he said Let the Chief of the Long Knives have guard tonight . 
'' And suddenly he was gone into the darkness . 
I waded the creek and sped to Clark . 
He was alone now , the shutters of the room closed . 
And as I came in I could scarce believe that he was the same masterful man I had seen at the council that day , and at the conference an hour gone . 
He was once more the friend at whose feet I sat in private , who talked to me as a companion and a father . 
Where have you been , Davy ? '' he asked . 
And then , What is it , my lad ? '' I crept close to him and told him in a breathless undertone , and I knew that I was shaking the while . 
He listened gravely , and when I had finished laid a firm hand on my head . 
There , '' he said , you are a brave lad , and a canny . 
'' He thought a minute , his hand still resting on my head , and then rose and led me to the back door of the house . 
It was near midnight , and the sounds of the place were stilling , the crickets chirping in the grass . 
Run to Captain Bowman and tell him to send ten men to this door . 
But they must come man by man , to escape detection . 
Do you understand ? '' I nodded and was starting , but he still held me . 
God bless you , Davy , you are a brave boy . 
'' He closed the door softly and I sped away , my moccasins making no sound on the soft dirt . 
I reached the garrison , was challenged by Jack Terrill , the guard , and brought by him to Bowman's room . 
The Captain sat , undressed , at the edge of his bed . 
But he was a man of action , and strode into the long room where his company was sleeping and gave his orders without delay . 
Half an hour later there was no light in the village . 
The Colonel's headquarters were dark , but in the kitchen a dozen tall men were waiting . 
CHAPTER XVII THE SACRIFICE So far as the world knew , the Chief of the Long Knives slept peacefully in his house . 
And such was his sense of power that not even a sentry paced the street without . 
For by these things is the Indian mind impressed . 
In the tiny kitchen a dozen men and a boy tried to hush their breathing , and sweltered . 
For it was very hot , and the pent up odor of past cookings was stifling to men used to the open . 
In a corner , hooded under a box , was a lighted lantern , and Tom McChesney stood ready to seize it at the first alarm . 
On such occasions the current of time runs sluggish . 
Thrice our muscles were startled into tenseness by the baying of a hound , and once a cock crew out of all season . 
For the night was cloudy and pitchy black , and the dawn as far away as eternity . 
Suddenly I knew that every man in the room was on the alert , for the skilled frontiersman , when watchful , has a sixth sense . 
None of them might have told you what he had heard . 
The next sound was the faint creaking of Colonel Clark's door as it opened . 
Wrapping a blanket around the lantern , Tom led the way , and we massed ourselves behind the front door . 
Another breathing space , and then the war cry of the Puans broke hideously on the night , and children woke , crying , from their sleep . 
In two bounds our little detachment was in the street , the fire spouting red from the Deckards , faint , shadowy forms fading along the line of trees . 
After that an uproar of awakening , cries here and there , a drum beating madly for the militia . 
Damn the sly varmints , '' cried Tom , and he turned over the North Wind with his foot , as a log . 
With a grunt of fury the Indian shed his blanket and scrambled to his feet , and stood glaring at us through his paint . 
But suddenly he met the fixed sternness of Clark's gaze , and his own shifted . 
By this time his followers were up . 
The North Wind raised his hands to heaven in token of his innocence , and then spread his palms outward . 
The boy is right , '' said the Colonel , and turned to Tom . 
Sergeant , have the chiefs put in irons . 
'' He swung on his heel , and without more ado went back to his house to bed . 
The North Wind and two others were easily singled out as the leaders , and were straightway escorted to the garrison house , their air of injured innocence availing them not a whit . 
The militia was dismissed , and the village was hushed once more . 
But all night long the chiefs went to and fro , taking counsel among themselves . 
What would the Chief of the Pale Faces do ? The morning came with a cloudy , damp dawning . 
blanketed deputations filled the archways under the trees and waited there as the minutes ran into hours . 
The Chief of the Long Knives surveyed the morning from his door step , and his eyes rested on a solemn figure at the gate . 
It was the Hungry Wolf . 
Sorrow was in his voice , and he bore messages from the twenty great chiefs who stood beyond . 
They were come to express their abhorrence of the night's doings , of which they were as innocent as the deer of the forest . 
Let the Hungry Wolf tell the chiefs , '' said Colonel Clark , briefly , that the council is the place for talk . 
'' And he went back into the house again . 
Then he bade me run to Captain Bowman with an order to bring the North Wind and his confederates to the council field in irons . 
The day followed the promise of the dawn . 
The clouds hung low , and now and again great drops struck the faces of the people in the field . 
And like the heavens , the assembly itself was charged with we knew not what . 
Audacity is truly a part of the equipment of genius . 
To have rescued the North Wind and his friends would have been child's play to have retired from the council with threats of war , as easy . 
And yet they craved pardon . 
One chief after another rose with dignity in the ring and came to the table to plead . 
An argument deserving mention was that the North Wind had desired to test the friendship of the French for the Big Knives , set forth without a smile . 
To all pleaders Colonel Clark shook his head . 
He , being a warrior , cared little whether such people were friends or foes . 
He held them in the hollow of his hand . 
And at length they came no more . 
The very clouds seemed to hang motionless when he rose to speak , and you who will may read in his memoir what he said . 
The Hungry Wolf caught the spirit of it , and was eloquent in his own tongue , and no word of it was lost . 
Warriors , '' said he , here is a bloody belt and a white one take which you choose . 
Let us then part this evening in the hope that the Great Spirit will bring us together again with the sun as brothers . 
'' So the council broke up . 
White man and red went trooping into town , staring curiously at the guard which was leading the North Wind and his friends to another night of meditation . 
What their fate would be no man knew . 
That night the citizens of the little village of Pain Court , as St . 
Louis was called , might have seen the sky reddened in the eastward . 
It was the loom of many fires at Cahokia , and around them the chiefs of the forty tribes all save the three in durance vile were gathered in solemn talk . 
Would they take the bloody belt or the white one ? No man cared so little as the Pale Face Chief . 
When their eyes were turned from the fitful blaze of the logs , the gala light of many candles greeted them . 
And above the sound of their own speeches rose the merrier note of the fiddle . 
The garrison windows shone like lanterns , and behind these Creole and backwoodsman swung the village ladies in the gay French dances . 
The man at whose bidding this merrymaking was held stood in a corner watching with folded arms , and none to look at him might know that he was playing for a stake . 
The troubled fires of the Indians had died to embers long before the candles were snuffed in the garrison house and the music ceased . 
The sun himself was pleased to hail that last morning of the great council , and beamed with torrid tolerance upon the ceremony of kindling the greatest of the fires . 
On this morning Colonel Clark did not sit alone , but was surrounded by men of weight , by Monsieur Gratiot and other citizens , Captain Bowman and the Spanish officers . 
And when at length the brush crackled and the flames caught the logs , three of the mightiest chiefs arose . 
The greatest , victor in fifty tribal wars , held in his hand the white belt of peace . 
The second bore a long stemmed pipe with a huge bowl . 
And after him , with measured steps , a third came with a smoking censer , the sacred fire with which to kindle the pipe . 
Next the Indian turned , and spoke to his brethren in measured , sonorous tones . 
Even as these English had served the Big Knives , so might they one day serve the Indians . 
Therefore he commanded them to cast the tomahawk into the river , and when they should return to their land to drive the evil birds from it . 
And they must send their wise men to Kaskaskia to hear the words of wisdom of the Great White Chief , Clark . 
He thanked the Great Spirit for this council fire which He had kindled at Cahokia . 
Lifting the bowl of the censer , in the eyes of all the people he drew in a long whiff to bear witness of peace . 
After him the pipe went the interminable rounds of the chiefs . 
Colonel Clark took it , and puffed Captain Bowman puffed , everybody puffed . 
Davy must have a pull , '' cried Tom and even the chiefs smiled as I coughed and sputtered , while my friends roared with laughter . 
It gave me no great notion of the fragrance of tobacco . 
And then came such a hand shaking and grunting as a man rarely sees in a lifetime . 
There was but one disquieting question left What was to become of the North Wind and his friends ? None dared mention the matter at such a time . 
But at length , as the day wore on to afternoon , the Colonel was seen to speak quietly to Captain Bowman , and several backwoodsmen went off toward the town . 
And presently a silence fell on the company as they beheld the dejected three crossing the field with a guard . 
They were led before Clark , and when he saw them his face hardened to sternness . 
It is only women who watch to catch a bear sleeping , '' he said . 
The Big Knives do not kill women . 
I shall give you meat for your journey home , for women cannot hunt . 
If you remain here , you shall be treated as squaws . 
'' Tom McChesney cast off their irons . 
As for Clark , he began to talk immediately with Monsieur Gratiot , as though he had dismissed them from his mind . 
And their agitation was a pitiful thing to see . 
In vain they pressed about him , in vain they even pulled the fringe of his shirt to gain his attention . 
And then they went about among the other chiefs , but these dared not intercede . 
Uneasiness was written on every man's face , and the talk went haltingly . 
But Clark was serenity itself . 
At length with a supreme effort they plucked up courage to come again to the table , one holding out the belt of peace , and the other the still smouldering pipe . 
Clark paused in his talk . 
He took the belt , and flung it away over the heads of those around him . 
He seized the pipe , and taking up his sword from the table drew it , and with one blow clave the stem in half . 
There was no anger in either act , but much deliberation . 
The Big Knives , '' he said scornfully , do not treat with women . 
'' The pleading began again , the Hungry Wolf interpreting with tremors of earnestness . 
When the Big Knives come upon such people in the wilderness , '' Clark answered , they shoot them down that they may not eat the deer . 
But they have never talked of it . 
'' He turned from them once more they went away in a dejection to wring our compassion , and we thought the matter ended at last . 
The sun was falling low , the people beginning to move away , when , to the astonishment of all , the culprits were seen coming back again . 
With them were two young men of their own nation . 
The Indians opened up a path for them to pass through , and they came as men go to the grave . 
So mournful , so impressive withal , that the crowd fell into silence again , and the Colonel turned his eyes . 
The two young men sank down on the ground before him and shrouded their heads in their blankets . 
What is this ? '' Clark demanded . 
The North Wind spoke in a voice of sorrow An atonement to the Great White Chief for the sins of our nation . 
Perchance the Great Chief will deign to strike a tomahawk into their heads , that our nation may be saved in war by the Big Knives . 
'' And the North Wind held forth the pipe once more . 
I have nothing to say to you , '' said Clark . 
Still they stood irresolute , their minds now bereft of expedients . 
And the young men sat motionless on the ground . 
As Clark talked they peered out from under their blankets , once , twice , thrice . 
He was still talking to the wondering Monsieur Gratiot . 
But no other voice was heard , and the eyes of all were turned on him in amazement . 
But at last , when the drama had risen to the pitch of unbearable suspense , he looked down upon the two miserable pyramids at his feet , and touched them . 
Stand up , '' said the Colonel , and uncover . 
'' They rose , cast the blankets from them , and stood with a stoic dignity awaiting his pleasure . 
Wonderful , fine limbed men they were , and for the first time Clark's eyes were seen to kindle . 
I thank the Great Spirit , '' said he , in a loud voice , that I have found men among your nation . 
That I have at last discovered the real chiefs of your people . 
Had they sent such as you to treat with me in the beginning all might have been well . 
Go back to your people as their chiefs , and tell them that through you the Big Knives have granted peace to your nation . 
'' Stepping forward , he grasped them each by the hand , and , despite training , joy shone in their faces , while a long drawn murmur arose from the assemblage . 
But Clark did not stop there . 
He presented them to Captain Bowman and to the French and Spanish gentlemen present , and they were hailed by their own kind as chiefs of their nation . 
To cap it all our troops , backwoodsmen and Creole militia , paraded in line on the common , and fired a salute in their honor . 
Thus did Clark gain the friendship of the forty tribes in the Northwest country . 
CHAPTER XVIII AN' YE HAD BEEN WHERE I HAD BEEN'' We went back to Kaskaskia , Colonel Clark , Tom , and myself , and a great weight was lifted from our hearts . 
A peaceful autumn passed , and we were happy save when we thought of those we had left at home . 
There is no space here to tell of many incidents . 
The apples ripened , and were shaken to the ground by the winds . 
The good Father Gibault , true to his promise , strove to teach me French . 
Indeed , I picked up much of that language in my intercourse with the inhabitants of Kaskaskia . 
And day by day Colonel Clark looked graver . 
The messengers he had sent to Vincennes came not back , and the coureurs and traders from time to time brought rumors of a British force gathering like a thundercloud in the northeast . 
Monsieur Vigo himself , who had gone to Vincennes on his own business , did not return . 
As for the inhabitants , some of them who had once bowed to us with a smile now passed with faces averted . 
The cold set the miry roads like cement , in ruts and ridges . 
A flurry of snow came and powdered the roofs even as the French loaves are powdered . 
There was Colonel Clark on a runt of an Indian pony Tom McChesney on another , riding ahead , several French gentlemen seated on stools in a two wheeled cart , and myself . 
All at once the merriment ceased , and looking forward we saw that Tom had leaped from his saddle and was bending over something in the snow . 
These chanced to be the footprints of some twenty men . 
The immediate result of this alarming discovery was that Tom went on express to warn Captain Bowman , and the rest of us returned to a painful scene at Kaskaskia . 
We reached the village , the French gentlemen leaped down from their stools in the cart , and in ten minutes the streets were filled with frenzied , hooded figures . 
Hamilton , called the Hair Buyer , was upon them with no less than six hundred , and he would hang them to their own gateposts for listening to the Long Knives . 
These were but a handful after all was said . 
There was Father Gibault , for example . 
Father Gibault would doubtless be exposed to the crows in the belfry of his own church because he had busied himself at Vincennes and with other matters . 
Father Gibault was human , and therefore lovable . 
He bade his parishioners a hasty and tearful farewell , and he made a cold and painful journey to the territories of his Spanish Majesty across the Mississippi . 
Father Gibault looked back , and against the gray of the winter's twilight there were flames like red maple leaves . 
In the fort the men stood to their guns , their faces flushed with staring at the burning houses . 
Only a few were burned , enough to give no cover for Hamilton and his six hundred if they came . 
But they did not come . 
The faithful Bowman and his men arrived instead , with the news that there had been only a roving party of forty , and these were now in full retreat . 
But where was Hamilton ? This was the disquieting thing . 
One bitter day , when the sun smiled mockingly on the powdered common , a horseman was perceived on the Fort Chartres road . 
It was Monsieur Vigo returning from Vincennes , but he had been first to St . 
Louis by reason of the value he set upon his head . 
Yes , Monsieur Vigo had been to Vincennes , remaining a little longer than he expected , the guest of Governor Hamilton . 
So Governor Hamilton had recaptured that place ! Monsieur Vigo was no spy , hence he had gone first to St . 
Governor Hamilton was at Vincennes with much of King George's gold , and many supplies , and certain Indians who had not been at the council . 
Eight hundred in all , said Monsieur Vigo , using his fingers . 
The Governor could do nothing now , but would move as soon as the rigors of winter had somewhat relented . 
Monsieur Vigo shook his head and shrugged his shoulders . 
What would Monsieur le Colonel do now ? Monsieur le Colonel was grave , but this was his usual manner . 
He did not tear his hair , but the ways of the Long Knives were past understanding . 
How was it with the garrison at Vincennes ? Monsieur Vigo was exact , as a business man should be . 
They were now reduced to eighty men , and five hundred savages had gone out to ravage . 
There was no chance , then , of Hamilton moving at present ? Monsieur Vigo threw up his hands . 
Never had he made such a trip , and he had been forced to come back by a northern route . 
The Wabash was as the Great Lakes , and the forests grew out of the water . 
A fox could not go to Vincennes in this weather . 
A fish ? Monsieur Vigo laughed heartily . 
Yes , a fish might . 
Then , '' said Colonel Clark , we will be fish . 
'' Monsieur Vigo stared , and passed his hand from his forehead backwards over his long hair . 
I leaned forward in my corner by the hickory fire . 
Then we will be fish , '' said Colonel Clark . 
Better that than food for the crows . 
For , if we stay here , we shall be caught like bears in a trap , and Kentucky will be at Hamilton's mercy . 
'' Sacre' ! '' exclaimed Monsieur Vigo , you are mad , mon ami . 
I know what this country is , and you cannot get to Vincennes . 
'' I WILL get to Vincennes , '' said Colonel Clark , so gently that Monsieur Vigo knew he meant it . 
I will SWIM to Vincennes . 
'' Monsieur Vigo raised his hands to heaven . 
The three of us went out of the door and walked . 
There was a snowy place in front of the church all party colored like a clown's coat , scarlet capotes , yellow capotes , and blue capotes , and bright silk handkerchiefs . 
Colonel Clark went silently on his way to the gate but Monsieur Vigo stopped , and Kaskaskia heard , with a shock , that this man of iron was to march against Vincennes . 
The gates of the fort were shut , and the captains summoned . 
Undaunted woodsmen as they were , they were lukewarm , at first , at the idea of this march through the floods . 
Who can blame them ? They had , indeed , sacrificed much . 
But in ten minutes they had caught his enthusiasm . 
And the men paraded in the snow likewise caught it , and swung their hats at the notion of taking the Hair Buyer . 
Swimmin' , is it ? '' said Terence , sure , the divil made worse things than wather . 
'' I reckon that'll fetch us through , '' Bill Cowan put in grimly . 
It was a blessed thing that none of us had a bird's eye view of that same water . 
No man of force will listen when his mind is made up , and perhaps it is just as well . 
For in that way things are accomplished . 
Clark would not listen to Monsieur Vigo , and hence the financier had , perforce , to listen to Clark . 
There were several miracles before we left . 
Monsieur Vigo , for instance , agreed to pay the expenses of the expedition , though in his heart he thought we should never get to Vincennes . 
Incidentally , he was never repaid . 
Their ladies stitched colors day and night , and presented them with simple confidence to the Colonel in the church . 
Twenty stands of colors for men , counting those who had come from Cahokia . 
This was because Colonel Clark was a man of destiny . 
Furthermore , Colonel Clark was off the next morning at dawn to buy a Mississippi keel boat . 
He had her rigged up with two four pounders and four swivels , filled her with provisions , and called her the Willing . 
She was the first gunboat on the Western waters . 
A great fear came into my heart , and at dusk I stole back to the Colonel's house alone . 
The snow had turned to rain , and Terence stood guard within the doorway . 
It was at this critical juncture that the door opened and Colonel Clark came out . 
What's to do here ? '' he demanded , gazing at us sternly . 
Savin' your Honor's prisence , '' said Terence , he's afeard your Honor will be sending him on the boat . 
Sure , he wants to go swimmin' with the rest of us . 
'' Colonel Clark frowned , bit his lip , and Terence seized his gun and stood to attention . 
It were right to leave you in Kaskaskia , '' said the Colonel the water will be over your head . 
'' The King's drum would be floatin' the likes of him , '' said the irrepressible Terence , and the b'ys would be that lonesome . 
'' The Colonel walked away without a word . 
In an hour's time he came back to find me cleaning his accoutrements by the fire . 
For a while he did not speak , but busied himself with his papers , I having lighted the candles for him . 
Presently he spoke my name , and I stood before him . 
I will give you a piece of advice , Davy , '' said he . 
If you want a thing , go straight to the man that has it . 
McChesney has spoken to me about this wild notion of yours of going to Vincennes , and Cowan and McCann and Ray and a dozen others have dogged my footsteps . 
'' I only spoke to Terence because he asked me , sir , '' I answered . 
I said nothing to any one else . 
'' He laid down his pen and looked at me with an odd expression . 
What a weird little piece you are , '' he exclaimed you seem to have wormed your way into the hearts of these men . 
Do you know that you will probably never get to Vincennes alive ? '' I don't care , sir , '' I said . 
A happy thought struck me . 
If they see a boy going through the water , sir '' I hesitated , abashed . 
What then ? '' said Clark , shortly . 
It may keep some from going back , '' I finished . 
At that he gave a sort of gasp , and stared at me the more . 
Egad , '' he said , I believe the good Lord launched you wrong end to . 
Perchance you will be a child when you are fifty . 
'' He was silent a long time , and fell to musing . 
And I thought he had forgotten . 
May I go , sir ? '' I asked at length . 
Come here , '' said he . 
But when I was close to him he merely laid his hand on my shoulder . 
Yes , you may go , Davy . 
'' He sighed , and presently turned to his writing again , and I went back joyfully to my cleaning . 
On a certain dark th of February , picture the village of Kaskaskia assembled on the river bank in capote and hood . 
There they were to await us . 
Should we ever see them again ? I think that this was the unspoken question in the hearts of the many who were to go by land . 
The th was a mild , gray day , with the melting snow lying in patches on the brown bluff , and the sun making shift to pierce here and there . 
Bravely we marched out of the gate and into the church for Father Gibault's blessing . 
And then , forming once more , we filed away on the road leading northward to the ferry , our colors flying , leaving the weeping , cheering crowd behind . 
In front of the tall men of the column was a wizened figure , beating madly on a drum , stepping proudly with head thrown back . 
It was Cowan's voice that snapped the strain . 
Go it , Davy , my little gamecock ! '' he cried , and the men laughed and cheered . 
And so we came to the bleak ferry landing where we had crossed on that hot July night six months before . 
We were soon on the prairies , and in the misty rain that fell and fell they seemed to melt afar into a gray and cheerless ocean . 
The sodden grass was matted now and unkempt . 
Lifeless lakes filled the depressions , and through them we waded mile after mile ankle deep . 
There was a little cavalcade mounted on the tiny French ponies , and sometimes I rode with these but oftenest Cowin or Tom would fling me drum and all , on his shoulder . 
For we had reached the forest swamps where the water is the color of the Creole coffee . 
And day after day as we marched , the soft rain came out of the east and wet us to the skin . 
It was a journey of torments , and even that first part of it was enough to discourage the most resolute spirit . 
Men might be led through it , but never driven . 
It is ever the mind which suffers through the monotonies of bodily discomfort , and none knew this better than Clark himself . 
How the hunters vied with each other to supply the best , and spent the days stalking the deer cowering in the wet thickets . 
We crossed the Saline , and on the plains beyond was a great black patch , a herd of buffalo . 
A party of chosen men headed by Tom McChesney was sent after them , and never shall I forget the sight of the mad beasts charging through the water . 
Saddle and steak sizzled , leather steamed and stiffened , hearts and bodies thawed grievances that men had nursed over miles of water melted . 
Courage sits best on a full stomach , and as they ate they cared not whether the Atlantic had opened between them and Vincennes . 
An hour agone , and there were twenty cursing laggards , counting the leagues back to Kaskaskia . 
Now C'etait un vieux sauvage Tout noir , tour barbouilla , Ouich' ka ! Avec sa vieill' couverte Et son sac a tabac . 
Ouich' ka ! Ah ! ah ! tenaouich' tenaga , Tenaouich' tenaga , ouich' ka ! '' So sang Antoine , dit le Gris , in the pulsing red light . 
And when , between the verses , he went through the agonies of a Huron war dance , the assembled regiment howled with delight . 
Some men know cities and those who dwell in the quarters of cities . 
But grizzled Antoine knew the half of a continent , and the manners of trading and killing of the tribes thereof . 
And after Antoine came Gabriel , a marked contrast Gabriel , five feet six , and the glare showing but a faint dark line on his quivering lip . 
Gabriel was a patriot , a tribute we must pay to all of those brave Frenchmen who went with us . 
Nay , Gabriel had left at home on his little farm near the village a young wife of a fortnight . 
There stood Colonel Clark in the dimmer light of the background . 
We must keep 'em screwed up , Davy , '' he had said that very day . 
There came to me on the instant a wild song that my father had taught me when the liquor held him in dominance . 
For we were upon a pleasure trip lest any man forget , a pleasure trip amidst stark woods and brown plains flecked with ponds . 
So we followed him until we came to a place where , in summer , two quiet rivers flowed through green forests the little Wabashes . 
And now ! Now hickory and maple , oak and cottonwood , stood shivering in three feet of water on what had been a league of dry land . 
We stood dismayed at the crumbling edge of the hill , and one hundred and seventy pairs of eyes were turned on Clark . 
With a mere glance at the running stream high on the bank and the drowned forest beyond , he turned and faced them . 
I reckon you've earned a rest , boys , '' he said . 
We'll have games to day . 
'' There were some dozen of the unflinching who needed not to be amused . 
Choosing a great poplar , these he set to hollowing out a pirogue , and himself came among the others and played leap frog and the Indian game of ball until night fell . 
And these , instead of moping and quarrelling , forgot . 
That night , as I cooked him a buffalo steak , he drew near the fire with Bowman . 
For the love of God keep up their spirits , Bowman , '' said the Colonel keep up their spirits until we get them across . 
Once on the farther hills , they cannot go back . 
'' Here was a different being from the shouting boy who had led the games and the war dance that night in the circle of the blaze . 
Even now the pains shoot through my body when I think of how man after man plunged waist deep into the icy water toward the farther branch . 
The pirogue was filled with the weak , and in the end of it I was curled up with my drum . 
Heroism is a many sided thing . 
It is one matter to fight and finish , another to endure hell's tortures hour after hour . 
All day they waded with numbed feet vainly searching for a footing in the slime . 
Truly , the agony of a brave man is among the greatest of the world's tragedies to see . 
As they splashed onward through the tree trunks , many a joke went forth , though lips were drawn and teeth pounded together . 
I have not the heart to recall these jokes , it would seem a sacrilege . 
A dozen held tremblingly to the pirogue's gunwale , lest they fall and drown . 
One walked ahead with a smile , or else fell back to lend a helping shoulder to a fainting man . 
And there was Tom McChesney . 
All day long I watched him , and thanked God that Polly Ann could not see him thus . 
And yet , how the pride would have leaped within her ! Humor came not easily to him , but charity and courage and unselfishness he had in abundance . 
I'm all right , Davy , '' he would say , in answer to my look as he passed me . 
But on his face was written something that I did not understand . 
How the Creole farmers and traders , unused even to the common ways of woodcraft , endured that fearful day and others that followed , I know not . 
At eventide came to lurid and disordered brains the knowledge that the other branch was here . 
And , mercifully , it was shallower than the first . 
Holding his rifle high , with a war whoop Bill Cowan plunged into the stream . 
Unable to contain myself more , I flung my drum overboard and went after it , and amid shouts and laughter I was towed across by James Ray . 
Colonel Clark stood watching from the bank above , and it was he who pulled me , bedraggled , to dry land . 
I ran away to help gather brush for a fire . 
As I was heaping this in a pile I heard something that I should not have heard . 
Nor ought I to repeat it now , though I did not need the flames to send the blood tingling through my body . 
McChesney , '' said the Colonel , we must thank our stars that we brought the boy along . 
He has grit , and as good a head as any of us . 
I reckon if it hadn't been for him some of them would have turned back long ago . 
'' I saw Tom grinning at the Colonel as gratefully as though he himself had been praised . 
The blaze started , and soon we had a bonfire . 
Some had not the strength to hold out the buffalo meat to the fire . 
Even the grumblers and mutineers were silent , owing to the ordeal they had gone through . 
But presently , when they began to be warmed and fed , they talked of other trials to be borne . 
The Embarrass and the big Wabash , for example . 
These must be like the sea itself . 
Take the back trail , if ye like , '' said Bill Cowan , with a loud laugh . 
I reckon the rest of us kin float to Vincennes on Davy's drum . 
'' But there was no taking the back trail now and well they knew it . 
Mercifully , now that their stomachs were full , they had no worries . 
Few knew the danger we were in of being cut off by Hamilton's roving bands of Indians . 
There would be no retreat , no escape , but a fight to the death . 
On and on , through rain and water , we marched until we drew near to the river Embarrass . 
Drew near , did I say ? ''Sure , darlin' , '' said Terence , staring comically over the gray waste , we've been in it since Choosd'y . 
'' There was small exaggeration in it . 
In vain did our feet seek the deeper water . 
It would go no higher than our knees , and the sound which the regiment made in marching was like that of a great flatboat going against the current . 
Nor was there any supper ahead . 
For our food was gone , and no game was to be shot over this watery waste . 
A cold like that of eternal space settled in our bones . 
Begob , '' said he , 'tis fine weather for fishes , and the birrds are that comfortable in the threes . 
'Tis no place for a baste at all , at all . 
'' Sometime in the night there was a cry . 
Ray had found the water falling from an oozy bank , and there we dozed fitfully until we were startled by a distant boom . 
It was Governor Hamilton's morning gun at Fort Sackville , Vincennes . 
How we made our way , benumbed with hunger and cold , to the banks of the Wabash , I know not . 
Captain McCarty's company was set to making canoes , and the rest of us looked on apathetically as the huge trees staggered and fell amidst a fountain of spray in the shallow water . 
We were but three leagues from Vincennes . 
Before he left Tom came to me , and the remembrance of his gaunt face haunted me for many years after . 
He drew something from his bosom and held it out to me , and I saw that it was a bit of buffalo steak which he had saved . 
I shook my head , and the tears came into my eyes . 
Come , Davy , '' he said , ye're so little , and I beant hungry . 
'' Again I shook my head , and for the life of me I could say nothing . 
I reckon Polly Ann'd never forgive me if anything was to happen to you , '' said he . 
At that I grew strangely angry . 
It's you who need it , '' I cried , it's you that has to do the work . 
And she told me to take care of you . 
'' The big fellow grinned sheepishly , as was his wont . 
'Tis only a bite , '' he pleaded , 'twouldn't only make me hungry , and'' he looked hard at me and it might be the savin' of you . 
Ye'll not eat it for Polly Ann's sake ? '' he asked coaxingly . 
'Twould not be serving her , '' I answered indignantly . 
Ye're an obstinate little deevil ! '' he cried , and , dropping the morsel on the freshly cut stump , he stalked away . 
I ran after him , crying out , but he leaped on the raft that was already in the stream and began to pole across . 
I slipped the piece into my own hunting shirt . 
All day the men who were too weak to swing axes sat listless on the bank , watching in vain for some sight of the Willing . 
They saw a canoe rounding the bend instead , with a single occupant paddling madly . 
And who should this be but Captain Willing's own brother , escaped from the fort , where he had been a prisoner . 
Governor Hamilton's astonishment at seeing this force here and now would be as great as his own . 
Governor Hamilton had said , indeed , that only a navy could take Vincennes this year . 
Unfortunately , Mr. Willing brought no food . 
Next in order came five Frenchmen , trapped by our scouts , nor had they any provisions . 
But as long as I live I shall never forget how Tom McChesney returned at nightfall , the hero of the hour . 
He had shot a deer and never did wolves pick an animal cleaner . 
Swein Poulsson , he that once hid under the bed , deserves a special tablet to his memory . 
He was for giving me all he had , though his little eyes were unnaturally bright and the red had left his cheeks now . 
He haf no belly , only a leedle on his backbone ! '' he cried . 
Begob , thin , he has the backbone , '' said Terence . 
I have a piece , '' said I , and drew forth that which Tom had given me . 
They brought a quarter of a saddle to Colonel Clark , but he smiled at them kindly and told them to divide it amongst the weak . 
He looked at me as I sat with my feet crossed on the stump . 
I will follow Davy's example , '' said he . 
At length the canoes were finished and we crossed the river , swimming over the few miserable skeletons of the French ponies we had brought along . 
We came to a sugar camp , and beyond it , stretching between us and Vincennes , was a sea of water . 
Here we made our camp , if camp it could be called . 
There was no fire , no food , and the water seeped out of the ground on which we lay . 
Some of those even who had not yet spoken now openly said that we could go no farther . 
For the wind had shifted into the northwest , and , for the first time since we had left Kaskaskia we saw the stars gleaming like scattered diamonds in the sky . 
Bit by bit the ground hardened , and if by chance we dozed we stuck to it . 
Morning found the men huddled like sheep , their hunting shirts hard as boards , and long before Hamilton's gun we were up and stamping . 
Antoine poked the butt of his rifle through the ice of the lake in front of us . 
I think we not get to Vincennes this day , '' he said . 
Colonel Clark , who heard him , turned to me . 
Fetch McChesney here , Davy , '' he said . 
McChesney , '' said he , when I give the word , take Davy and his drum on your shoulders and follow me . 
And Davy , do you think you can sing that song you gave us the other night ? '' Oh , yes , sir , '' I answered . 
Stepping back , he raised his sword high in the air , and , shouting the Shawanee war whoop , took a flying leap up to his thighs in the water . 
Tom swung me instantly to his shoulder and followed , I beating the charge with all my might , though my hands were so numb that I could scarce hold the sticks . 
Strangest of all , to a man they came shouting after us . 
Now , Davy ! '' said the Colonel . 
We followed it , feeling carefully , and at length , when we had suffered all that we could bear , we stumbled on to a dry ridge . 
Here we spent another night of torture , with a second backwater facing us coated with a full inch of ice . 
And still there was nothing to eat . 
Nevertheless there was a kind of oratory to fit the case . 
To picture the misery of these men is well nigh impossible . 
They stood sluggishly in groups , dazed by suffering , and their faces were drawn and their eyes ringed , their beards and hair matted . 
And many found it in their hearts to curse Clark and that government for which he fought . 
Could life and interest and enthusiasm be infused again in such as these ? I have ceased to marvel how it was done . 
A man no less haggard than the rest , but with a compelling force in his eyes , pointed with a blade to the hills across the river . 
They must get to them , he said , and their troubles would be ended . 
He said more , and they cheered him . 
These are the bare facts . 
He picked a man here , and another there , and these went silently to a grim duty behind the regiment . 
If any try to go back , shoot them down ! '' he cried . 
Then with a gun butt he shattered the ice and was the first to leap into the water under it . 
They followed , some with a cheer that was most pitiful of all . 
They followed him blindly , as men go to torture , but they followed him , and the splashing and crushing of the ice were sounds to freeze my body . 
I was put in a canoe . 
In my day I have beheld great suffering and hardship , and none of it compared to this . 
More than once Clark himself tottered where he beat the ice at the apex of the line . 
Some swooned and would have drowned had they not been dragged across the canoe and chafed back to consciousness . 
By inches the water shallowed . 
Clark reached the high ground , and then Bill Cowan , with a man on each shoulder . 
Then others endured to the shallows to fall heavily in the crumbled ice and be dragged out before they died . 
But at length , by God's grace , the whole regiment was on the land . 
Fires would not revive some , but Clark himself seized a fainting man by the arms and walked him up and down in the sunlight until his blood ran again . 
It was a glorious day , a day when the sap ran in the maples , and the sun soared upwards in a sky of the palest blue . 
All this we saw through the tracery of the leafless branches , a mirthless , shivering crowd , crept through a hell of weather into the Hair Buyer's very lair . 
Had he neither heard nor seen ? Down the steel blue lane of water between the ice came a canoe . 
Our stunted senses perceived it , unresponsive . 
now some of them had leaped into the pirogue , now they were returning . 
In the towed canoe two fat and stolid squaws and a pappoose were huddled , and beside them God be praised ! food . 
A piece of buffalo on its way to town , and in the end compartment of the boat tallow and bear's grease lay revealed by two blows of the tomahawk . 
The kettles long disused were fetched , and broth made and fed in sips to the weakest , while the strongest looked on and smiled in an agony of self restraint . 
It was a fearful thing to see men whose legs had refused service struggle to their feet when they had drunk the steaming , greasy mixture . 
And the Colonel , standing by the river's edge , turned his face away down stream . 
And then , as often , I saw the other side of the man . 
Suddenly he looked at me , standing wistful at his side . 
They have cursed me , '' said he , by way of a question , they have cursed me every day . 
'' And you ? '' he asked queerly . 
I I could not , sir . 
For I asked leave to come . 
'' If they have condemned me to a thousand hells , '' said he , dispassionately , I should not blame them . 
'' Again he looked at me . 
Do you understand what you have done ? '' he asked . 
No , sir , '' I said uneasily . 
And yet there are some human qualities in you , Davy . 
You have been worth more to me than another regiment . 
When you grow older , if you ever do , tell your children that once upon a time you put a hundred men to shame . 
It is no small thing . 
'' Seeing him relapse into silence , I did not speak . 
For the space of half an hour he stared down the river , and I knew that he was looking vainly for the Willing . 
At noon we crossed , piecemeal , a deep lake in the canoes , and marching awhile came to a timber covered rise which our French prisoners named as the Warriors' Island . 
At the far side , on the Wabash River , was the front door , or Fort Sackville , where the banner of England snapped in the February breeze . 
We stood there , looking , as the afternoon light flooded the plain . 
Suddenly the silence was broken . 
Hooray for Clark ! '' cried a man at the edge of the copse . 
Hooray for Clark ! '' it was the whole regiment this time . 
From execration to exaltation was but a step , after all . 
And the Creoles fell to scoffing at their sufferings and even forgot their hunger in staring at the goal . 
The backwoodsmen took matters more stolidly , having acquired long since the art of waiting . 
They lounged about , cleaning their guns , watching the myriad flocks of wild ducks and geese casting blue black shadows on the ponds . 
'' I'd sooner hev the Ha'r Buyer's sculp , '' said Tom . 
Presently there was a drama performed for our delectation . 
A shot came down the wind , and we perceived that several innocent Creole gentlemen , unconscious of what the timber held , were shooting the ducks and geese . 
Whereupon Clark chose Antoine and three of our own Creoles to sally out and shoot likewise as decoys . 
We watched them working their way over the ridges , and finally saw them coming back with one of the Vincennes sportsmen . 
I cannot begin to depict the astonishment of this man when he reached the copse , and was led before our lean , square shouldered commander . 
Yes , monsieur , he was a friend of les Americains . 
, Governor Hamilton had said if the Long Knives had wings or fins they might reach him now he was all unprepared . 
Gentlemen , '' said Colonel Clark to Captains Bowman and McCarty and Williams , we have come so far by audacity , and we must continue by audacity . 
It is of no use to wait for the gunboat , and every moment we run the risk of discovery . 
I shall write an open letter to the inhabitants of Vincennes , which the prisoner shall take into town . 
I shall tell them that those who are true to the oath they swore to Father Gibault shall not be molested if they remain quietly in their houses . 
Let those who are on the side of the Hair Buyer General and his King go to the fort and fight there . 
'' He bade me fetch the portfolio he carried , and with numbed fingers wrote the letter while his captains stared in admiration and amazement . 
But Clark was not to be daunted . 
But , as the minutes rolled into hours , there was no further alarm . 
No gun , no beat to quarters or bugle call from Fort Sackville . 
What could it mean ? Clark's next move was an enigma , for he set the men to cutting and trimming tall sapling poles . 
the twenty stands of colors which loving Creole hands had stitched . 
The boisterous day was reddening to its close as the Colonel lined his little army in front of the wood , and we covered the space of four thousand . 
For the men were twenty feet apart and every tenth carried a standard . 
Suddenly we were aghast as the full meaning of the inspiration dawned upon us . 
The command was given , and we started on our march toward Vincennes . 
But not straight , zigzagging , always keeping the ridges between us and the town , and to the watching inhabitants it seemed as if thousands were coming to crush them . 
We halted once more , a quarter of a mile away . 
Clark , himself had picked fourteen men to go under Lieutenant Bayley through the town and take the fort from the other side . 
Here was audacity with a vengeance . 
You may be sure that Tom and Cowan and Ray were among these , and I trotted after them with the drum banging against my thighs . 
Was ever stronghold taken thus ? They went right into the town , the fourteen of them , into the main street that led directly to the fort . 
The simple citizens gave back , stupefied , at sight of the tall , striding forms . 
Muffled Indians stood like statues as we passed , but these raised not a hand against us . 
Where were Hamilton , Hamilton's soldiers and savages ? It was as if we had come a trading . 
The street rose and fell in waves , like the prairie over which it ran . 
As we climbed a ridge , here was a little log church , the rude cross on the belfry showing dark against the sky . 
And there , in front of us , flanked by blockhouses with conical caps , was the frowning mass of Fort Sackville . 
Take cover , '' said Williams , hoarsely . 
The men spread hither and thither , some at the corners of the church , some behind the fences of the little gardens . 
Tom chose a great forest tree that had been left standing , and I went with him . 
Davy , '' he whispered , and I pinched him . 
Davy , I reckon Polly Ann'd be kinder surprised if she knew where we was . 
Eh ? '' I nodded . 
It seemed strange , indeed , to be talking thus at such a place . 
Life has taught me since that it was not so strange , for however a man may strive and suffer for an object , he usually sits quiet at the consummation . 
The muscles of his legs were as hard as the strands of a rope , and his buckskin breeches frozen so that they cracked under my fingers . 
Suddenly a flickering light arose ahead of us , and another , and we saw that they were candles beginning to twinkle through the palings of the fort . 
These were badly set , the width of a man's hand apart . 
'' A gust of laughter came from somewhere beyond . 
The burly soldier paused at the foot of the blockhouse . 
Hi , Jem , have ye seen the General's man ? His Honor's in a 'igh temper , I warrant ye . 
'' It was fortunate for Jem that he put his foot inside the blockhouse door . 
Now , boys ! '' It was Williams's voice , and fourteen rifles sputtered out a ragged volley . 
There was an instant's silence , and then a score of voices raised in consternation , shouting , cursing , commanding . 
Heavy feet pounded on the platform of the blockhouse . 
We've got but the ten rounds , '' he said , dropping his rifle to his knee . 
I reckon 'tis no use to waste it . 
'' The Willing may come to night , '' I answered . 
There was a bugle winding a strange call , and the roll of a drum , and the running continued . 
Don't fire till you're sure , boys , '' said Captain Williams . 
But our men waited until the gunners lit their matches in the cannon ports , it was no trick for a backwoodsman . 
At length there came a popping right and left , and we knew that Bowman and McCarty's men had swung into position there . 
An hour passed , and a shadow came along our line , darting from cover to cover . 
It was Lieutenant Bayley , and he sent me back to find the Colonel and to tell him that the men had but a few rounds left . 
And here was Colonel Clark talking to a big , blanketed chief . 
I was hovering around the skirts of the crowd and seeking for an opening , when a hand pulled me off my feet . 
What'll ye be afther now ? '' said a voice , which was Terence's . 
Let me go , '' I cried , I have a message from Lieutenant Bayley . 
'' Sure , '' said Terence , a man'd think ye had the Hair Buyer's sculp in yere pocket . 
The Colonel is treaty makin' with Tobacey's Son , the grreatest Injun in these parrts . 
'' Hist ! '' said Terence . 
Let me go , '' I yelled , so loudly that the Colonel turned , and Terence dropped me like a live coal . 
I wormed my way to where Clark stood . 
Tobacco's Son was at that moment protesting that the Big Knives were his brothers , and declaring that before morning broke he would have one hundred warriors for the Great White Chief . 
Now all that Colonel Clark desired of Tobacco's Son besides his friendship was that he would keep his warriors from battle . 
The Big Knives would fight their own fight . 
To this sentiment Tobacco's Son grunted extreme approval . 
Colonel Clark turned to me . 
What is it , Davy ? '' he asked . 
Tobacco's Son has dug up for us King George's ammunition , '' he said . 
Go tell Lieutenant Bayley that I will send him enough to last him a month . 
'' I sped away with the message . 
Presently I came back again , upon another message , and they were eating , those reserves , they were eating as I had never seen men eat but once , at Kaskaskia . 
The baker stood by with lifted palms , imploring the saints that he might have some compensation , until Clark sent him back to his shop to knead and bake again . 
The good Creoles approached the fires with the contents of their larders in their hands . 
Terence tossed me a loaf the size of a cannon ball , and another . 
Fetch that wan to wan av the b'ys , '' said he . 
There was no sleep in the village . 
All night long , while the rifles sputtered , the villagers in their capotes men , women , and children huddled around the fires . 
The young men of the militia begged Clark to allow them to fight , and to keep them well affected he sent some here and there amongst our lines . 
For our Colonel's strength was not counted by rifles or men alone he fought with his brain . 
As Hamilton , the Hair Buyer , made his rounds , he believed the town to be in possession of a horde of Kentuckians . 
Shouts , war whoops , and bursts of laughter went up from behind the town . 
Surely a great force was there , a small part of which had been sent to play with him and his men . 
Woe be to him that showed an arm or a shoulder ! Though a casement be lifted ever so warily , a dozen balls would fly into it . 
And at length , when some of the besieged had died in their anger , the ports were opened no more . 
It was then our sharpshooters crept up boldly to within thirty yards of them nay , it seemed as if they lay under the very walls of the fort . 
And through the night the figure of the Colonel himself was often seen amongst them , praising their markmanship , pleading with every man not to expose himself without cause . 
He spied me where I had wormed myself behind the foot board of a picket fence beneath the cannon port of a blockhouse . 
It was during one of the breathing spaces . 
What's this ? '' said he to Cowan , sharply , feeling me with his foot . 
I reckon it's Davy , sir , '' said my friend , somewhat sheepishly . 
We can't do nothin' with him . 
He's been up and down the line twenty times this night . 
'' What doing ? '' says the Colonel . 
Bread and powder and bullets , '' answered Bill . 
But that's all over , '' says Clark . 
He's the very devil to pry , '' answered Bill . 
The first we know he'll be into the fort under the logs . 
'' Or between them , '' says Clark , with a glance at the open palings . 
'' I followed him , dodging between the houses , and when we had got off the line he took me by the two shoulders from behind . 
We came to the fires , and Captain Bowman hurried up to meet him . 
We're piling up earthworks and barricades , '' said the Captain , for the fight to morrow . 
My God ! if the Willing would only come , we could put our cannon into them . 
Bowman , '' said he , kindly , has Davy fed you yet ? '' No , '' says the Captain , surprised , I've had no time to eat . 
'' He seems to have fed the whole army , '' said the Colonel . 
Have they scented Lamothe or Maisonville ? '' Devil a scent ! '' cried the Captain , and we've scoured wood and quagmire . 
They tell me that Lamothe has a very pretty force of redskins at his heels . 
'' Let McChesney go , '' said Clark sharply , McChesney and Ray . 
I'll warrant they can find 'em . 
'' Now I knew that Maisonville had gone out a chasing Captain Willing's brother , he who had run into our arms . 
Lamothe was a noted Indian partisan and a dangerous man to be dogging our rear that night . 
Suddenly there came a thought that took my breath and set my heart a hammering . 
The night was cloudy and pitchy dark . 
Twice the whirring of startled waterfowl frightened me out of my senses , but ambition pricked me on in spite of fear . 
I may have gone a mile thus , perchance two or three , straining every sense , when a sound brought me to a stand . 
At first I could not distinguish it because of my heavy breathing , but presently I made sure that it was the low drone of human voices . 
Getting down on my hands and knees , I crept forward , and felt the ground rising . 
I gained the crest of a low ridge , and threw myself flat . 
A rattle of musketry set me shivering , and in an agony of fright I looked behind me to discover that I could not be more than four hundred yards from the fort . 
I had made a circle . 
I lay very still , my eyes watered with staring , and then the droning began again . 
I went forward an inch , then another and another down the slope , and at last I could have sworn that I saw dark blurs against the ground . 
I put out my hand , my weight went after , and I had crashed through a coating of ice up to my elbow in a pool . 
There came a second of sheer terror , a hoarse challenge in French , and then I took to my heels and flew towards the fort at the top of my speed . 
I heard them coming after me , leap and bound , and crying out to one another . 
Ahead of me there might have been a floor or a precipice , as the ground looks level at night . 
A hundred yards more , two figures loomed up in front , and I was pulled up choking . 
Hang to him , Fletcher ! '' said a voice . 
Great God ! '' cried Fletcher , it's Davy . 
What are ye up to now ? '' Let me go ! '' I cried , as soon as I had got my wind . 
As luck would have it , I had run into a pair of daredevil young Kentuckians who had more than once tasted the severity of Clark's discipline , Fletcher Blount and Jim Willis . 
A man must indeed be fleet of foot to have escaped these young ruffians , and so it proved . 
When I reached the hollow there were the two of them fighting with a man in the water , the ice jangling as they shifted their feet . 
What's yere name ? '' said Fletcher , cuffing and kicking his prisoner until he cried out for mercy . 
Maisonville , '' said the man , whereupon Fletcher gave a war whoop and kicked him again . 
That's no way to use a prisoner , '' said I , hotly . 
Hold your mouth , Davy , '' said Fletcher , you didn't ketch him . 
'' You wouldn't have had him but for me , '' I retorted . 
Fletcher's answer was an oath . 
In mortal fear that the poor man would be shot down , I was running away to find some one who might have influence over them when I met a lieutenant . 
He came up and ordered them angrily to unbind Maisonville and bring him before the Colonel . 
This was merely backwoods play , had Maisonville but known it . 
Persuaded , however , that his last hour was come , he made a desperate effort to clear himself , whereupon Fletcher cut off a piece of his skin by mistake . 
Maisonville , making sure that he had been scalped , stood groaning and clapping his hand to his head , while the two young rascals drew back and stared at each other . 
What's to do now ? '' said Willis . 
Take our medicine , I reckon , '' answered Fletcher , grimly . 
And they seized the tottering man between them , and marched him straightway to the fire where Clark stood . 
They had seen the Colonel angry before , but now they were fairly withered under his wrath . 
And he could have given them no greater punishment , for he took them from the firing line , and sent them back to wait among the reserves until the morning . 
Nom de Dieu ! '' said Maisonville , wrathfully , as he watched them go , they should hang . 
'' The stuff that brought them here through ice and flood is apt to boil over , Captain , '' remarked the Colonel , dryly . 
If you please , sir , '' said I , they did not mean to cut him , but he wriggled . 
I run to catch him with some men and fall into the crick '' he pointed to his soaked leggings , and your demons , they fall on top of me . 
'' I wish to heaven you had caught Lamothe instead , Davy , '' said the Colonel , and joined despite himself in the laugh that went up . 
Falling sober again , he began to question the prisoner . 
Where was Lamothe ? Pardieu , Maisonville could not say . 
How many men did he have , etc . 
? The circle about us deepened with eager listeners , who uttered exclamations when Maisonville , between his answers , put up his hand to his bleeding head . 
Suddenly the circle parted , and Captain Bowman came through . 
Ray has discovered Lamothe , sir , '' said he . 
What shall we do ? '' Let him into the fort , '' said Clark , instantly . 
There was a murmur of astonished protest . 
Let him into the fort ! '' exclaimed Bowman . 
Certainly , '' said the Colonel if he finds he cannot get in , he will be off before the dawn to assemble the tribes . 
'' But the fort is provisioned for a month , '' Bowman expostulated and they must find out to morrow how weak we are . 
'' To morrow will be too late , '' said Clark . 
And suppose he shouldn't go in ? '' He will go in , '' said the Colonel , quietly . 
Withdraw your men , Captain , from the north side . 
Whatever he may have thought of these orders , he was too faithful a friend of the Colonel's to delay their execution . 
Murmuring , swearing oaths of astonishment , man after man on the firing line dropped his rifle at the word , and sullenly retreated . 
It was the long hour before the dawn . 
Then , as the light grew , the close lipped casements were seen , scarred with our bullets . 
The little log houses of the town came out , the sapling palings and the bare trees , all grim and gaunt at that cruel season . 
Cattle lowed here and there , and horses whinnied to be fed . 
It was a dirty , gray dawn , and we waited until it had done its best . 
Bill Cowan , doubled up behind a woodpile and breathing heavily , nudged me . 
Twenty more broke after them , Indians and Frenchmen , dodging , swaying , crowding , looking fearfully to right and left . 
And from within the fort came forth a hubbub , cries and scuffling , orders , oaths , and shouts . 
In plain view of our impatient Deckards soldiers manned the platform , and we saw that they were flinging down ladders . 
An officer in a faded scarlet coat stood out among the rest , shouting himself hoarse . 
Involuntarily Cowan lined his sights across the woodpile on this mark of color . 
Lamothe's men , a seething mass , were fighting like wolves for the ladders , fearful yet that a volley might kill half of them where they stood . 
And so fast did they scramble upwards that the men before them stepped on their fingers . 
Then every man in the regiment , Creole and backwoodsman , lay back to laugh . 
But there was more caution on the side of the British , for they had learned dearly how the Kentuckians could measure crack and crevice . 
There followed two hours and a futile waste of ammunition , the lead from the garrison flying harmless here and there , and not a patch of skin or cloth showing . 
CHAPTER XX THE CAMPAIGN ENDS If I am obliged to storm , you may depend upon such treatment as is justly due to a murderer . 
And beware of destroying stores of any kind , or any papers or letters that are in your possession or of hurting one house in the town . 
For , by Heaven ! if you do , there shall be no mercy shown you . 
'' So read Colonel Clark , as he stood before the log fire in Monsieur Bouton's house at the back of the town , the captains grouped in front of him . 
Is that strong enough , gentlemen ? '' he asked . 
To raise his hair , '' said Captain Charleville . 
I reckon the boys will see to that , '' said he . 
Colonel Clark folded the letter , addressed it , and turned gravely to Monsieur Bouton . 
You will oblige me , sir , '' said he , by taking this to Governor Hamilton . 
You will be provided with a flag of truce . 
Through such humble agencies are the ends of Providence accomplished . 
Monsieur Bouton walked up to the gate , disappeared sidewise through the postern , and we sat down to breakfast . 
In a very short time Monsieur Bouton was seen coming back , and his face was not so impassive that the governors message could not be read thereon . 
'Tis not a love letter he has , I'll warrant , '' said Terence , as the little man disappeared into the house . 
So accurately had Monsieur Bouton's face betrayed the news that the men went back to their posts without orders , some with half a breakfast in hand . 
And soon the rank and file had the message . 
Lieutenant Governor Hamilton begs leave to acquaint Colonel Clark that he and his garrison are not disposed to be awed into any action unworthy of British subjects . 
'' Our men had eaten , their enemy was within their grasp and Clark and all his officers could scarce keep them from storming . 
Not tuned to the nicer courtesies of warfare , the memory of Hamilton's war parties , of blackened homes , of families dead and missing , raged unappeased . 
Again the postern opened , and this time there was a cheer at sight of a man in hunting shirt and leggings and coonskin cap . 
After him came a certain Major Hay , Indian enticer of detested memory , the lieutenant of him who followed the Hair Buyer himself . 
A murmur of hatred arose from the men stationed there and many would have shot him where he stood but for Clark . 
The devil has the grit , '' said Cowan , though his eyes blazed . 
It was the involuntary tribute . 
Lieutenant Governor Hamilton stared indifferently at the glowering backwoodsmen as he walked the few steps to the church . 
There was Colonel Clark waiting at the door through which the good Creoles had been wont to go to worship , bowing somewhat ironically to the British General . 
It was a strange meeting they had in St . 
Xavier's , by the light of the candles on the altar . 
Hot words passed in that house of peace , the General demanding protection for all his men , and our Colonel replying that he would do with the Indian partisans as he chose . 
And whom mean you by Indian partisans ? '' the undaunted governor had demanded . 
I take Major Hay to be one of them , '' our Colonel had answered . 
It was soon a matter of common report how Clark had gazed fixedly at the Major when he said this , and how the Major turned pale and trembled . 
With our own eyes we saw them coming out , Major Hay as near to staggering as a man could be , the governor blushing red for shame of him . 
So they went sorrowfully back to the gate . 
Colonel Clark stood at the steps of the church , looking after them . 
What was that firing ? '' he demanded sharply . 
I gave orders for a truce . 
'' We who stood by the church had indeed heard firing in the direction of the hills east of the town , and had wondered thereat . 
Perceiving a crowd gathered at the far end of the street , we all ran thither save the Colonel , who directed to have the offenders brought to him at Monsieur Bouton's . 
We met the news halfway . 
A party of Canadians and Indians had just returned from the Falls of the Ohio with scalps they had taken . 
Captain Williams had gone out with his company to meet them , had lured them on , and finally had killed a number and was returning with the prisoners . 
As for Williams , he took them in to the Colonel , the towns people pressing into the door yard and banking in front of it on the street . 
Behind all a tragedy impended , nor can I think of it now without sickening . 
The frightened Creoles in the street gave back against the fence , and from behind them , issuing as a storm cloud came the half of Williams' company , yelling like madmen . 
On and on pressed the mob , gathering recruits at every corner , and when they reached St . 
Xavier's before the fort half the regiment was there . 
Others watched , too , from the stockade , and what they saw made their knees smite together with fear . 
Here were four bronzed statues in a row across the street , the space in front of them clear that their partisans in the fort might look and consider . 
What was passing in the savage mind no man might know . 
Not a lip trembled nor an eye faltered when a backwoodsman , his memory aflame at sight of the pitiful white scalps on their belts , thrust through the crowd to curse them . 
Fletcher Blount , frenzied , snatched his tomahawk from his side . 
Sink , varmint ! '' he cried with a great oath . 
By the etarnal ! we'll pay the H'ar Buyer in his own coin . 
Sound your drums ! '' he shouted at the fort . 
Call the garrison fer the show . 
'' He had raised his arm and turned to strike when the savage put up his hand , not in entreaty , but as one man demanding a right from another . 
The cries , the curses , the murmurs even , were hushed . 
Throwing back his head , arching his chest , the notes of a song rose in the heavy air . 
Wild , strange notes they were , that struck vibrant chords in my own quivering being , and the song was the death song . 
Ay , and the life song of a soul which had come into the world even as mine own . 
The Indian knelt in the black mud , not at the feet of Fletcher Blount , but on the threshold of the Great Spirit who ruleth all things . 
The axe fell , yet he uttered no cry as he went before his Master . 
So the four went beyond the power of gold and gewgaw , and were dragged in the mire around the walls and flung into the yellow waters of the river . 
Through the dreary afternoon the men lounged about and cursed the parley , and hearkened for the tattoo , the signal agreed upon by the leaders to begin the fighting . 
Here's a Spanish dollar for a couple o' taps , Davy , '' shouted Jack Terrell . 
Come on , ye pack of Rebel cutthroats ! '' yelled a man on the wall . 
He was answered by a torrent of imprecations . 
There would be no storming now , nor any man suffered to lay fingers on the Hair Buyer . 
I remember , in particular , Hamilton the Hair Buyer . 
, but a man with a great sorrow stamped upon his face . 
The sun rose on that th of February , and the mud melted , and one of our companies drew up on each side of the gate . 
Downward slid the lion of England , the garrison drums beat a dirge , and the Hair Buyer marched out at the head of his motley troops . 
Then came my own greatest hour . 
Ah ! here is a bit of color , too , the villagers on the side streets to see the spectacle . 
Gay wools and gayer handkerchiefs there , amid the joyous , cheering crowd of thrice changed nationality . 
Yes , here was the gate , and now we were in the fort , and an empire was gained , never to be lost again . 
The Stars and Stripes climbed the staff , and the folds were caught by an eager breeze . 
Thirteen cannon thundered from the blockhouses one for each colony that had braved a king . 
There , in the miry square within the Vincennes fort , thin and bronzed and travel stained , were the men who had dared the wilderness in ugliest mood . 
Colonel George Rogers Clark stood in the centre of the square , under the flag to whose renown he had added three stars . 
Straight he was , and square , and self contained . 
No weakening tremor of exultation softened his face as he looked upon the men by whose endurance he had been able to do this thing . 
He waited until the white smoke of the last gun had drifted away on the breeze , until the snapping of the flag and the distant village sounds alone broke the stillness . 
We have not suffered all things for a reward , '' he said , but because a righteous cause may grow . 
And though our names may be forgotten , our deeds will be remembered . 
We have conquered a vast land that our children and our children's children may be freed from tyranny , and we have brought a just vengeance upon our enemies . 
I thank you , one and all , in the name of the Continental Congress and of that Commonwealth of Virginia for which you have fought . 
You are no longer Virginians , Kentuckians , Kaskaskians , and Cahokians you are Americans . 
'' He paused , and we were silent . 
Though his words moved us strongly , they were beyond us . 
I mention no deeds of heroism , of unselfishness , of lives saved at the peril of others . 
But I am the debtor of every man here for the years to come to see that he and his family have justice from the Commonwealth and the nation . 
'' Again he stopped , and it seemed to us watching that he smiled a little . 
I shall name one , '' he said , one who never lagged , who never complained , who starved that the weak might be fed and walk . 
David Ritchie , come here . 
'' I trembled , my teeth chattered as the water had never made them chatter . 
I believe I should have fallen but for Tom , who reached out from the ranks . 
I stumbled forward in a daze to where the Colonel stood , and the cheering from the ranks was a thing beyond me . 
The Colonel's hand on my head brought me to my senses . 
David Ritchie , '' he said , I give you publicly the thanks of the regiment . 
'' The next thing I knew I was on Cowan's shoulders , and he was tearing round and round the fort with two companies at his heels . 
'' By gar ! '' cried Antoine le Gris , now he drum us on to Detroit . 
'' Out of the gate rushed Cowan , the frightened villagers scattering right and left . 
And the afternoon sun , slanting through the square of the window , fell upon the maps and papers before him . 
He had sent for me . 
I halted in sheer embarrassment on the threshold , looked up at his face , and came on , troubled . 
Davy , '' he said , do you want to go back to Kentucky ? '' I should like to stay to the end , Colonel , I answered . 
The end ? '' he said . 
'' And Detroit , sir ? '' I returned . 
Detroit ! '' he cried bitterly , a man of sense measures his force , and does not try the impossible . 
I could as soon march against Philadelphia . 
This is the end , I say and the general must give way to the politician . 
And may God have mercy on the politician who will try to keep a people's affection without money or help from Congress . 
'' He fell back wearily in his chair , while I stood astonished , wondering . 
I had thought to find him elated with victory . 
Congress or Virginia , '' said he , will have to pay Monsieur Vigo , and Father Gibault , and Monsieur Gratiot , and the other good people who have trusted me . 
Do you think they will do so ? '' The Congress are far from here , '' I said . 
Ay , '' he answered , too far to care about you and me , and what we have suffered . 
'' He ended abruptly , and sat for a while staring out of the window at the figures crossing and recrossing the muddy parade ground . 
Tom McChesney goes to night to Kentucky with letters to the county lieutenant . 
You are to go with him , and then I shall have no one to remind me when I am hungry , and bring me hominy . 
I shall have no financier , no strategist for a tight place . 
'' He smiled a little , sadly , at my sorrowful look , and then drew me to him and patted my shoulder . 
It is no place for a young lad , an idle garrison . 
I think , '' he continued presently , I think you have a future , David , if you do not lose your head . 
Kentucky will grow and conquer , and in twenty years be a thriving community . 
And presently you will go to Virginia , and study law , and come back again . 
Do you hear ? Yes , Colonel . 
'' And I would tell you one thing , '' said he , with force serve the people , as all true men should in a republic . 
But do not rely upon their gratitude . 
You will remember that ? '' Yes , Colonel . 
'' A long time he paused , looking on me with a significance I did not then understand . 
And when he spoke again his voice showed no trace of emotion , save in the note of it . 
You have been a faithful friend , Davy , when I needed loyalty . 
Perhaps the time may come again . 
Promise me that you will not forget me if I am unfortunate . 
'' Unfortunate , sir ! '' I exclaimed . 
Good by , Davy , '' he said , and God bless you . 
I have work to do . 
He stared at me , but with kindness . 
What is it , Davy ? '' he asked . 
Please , sir , '' I said , if I might take my drum ? '' At that he laughed . 
You may , '' said he , you may . 
Perchance we may need it again . 
'' I went out from his presence , vaguely troubled , to find Tom . 
And before the early sun had set we were gliding down the Wabash in a canoe , past places forever dedicated to our agonies , towards Kentucky and Polly Ann . 
Davy , '' said Tom , I reckon she'll be standin' under the 'simmon tree , waitin' fer us with the little shaver in her arms . 
'' And so she was . 
Another page nay , a dozen could be filled with Indian horrors , ambuscades and massacres . 
And also I might have told how there drifted into this land , hitherto unsoiled , the refuse cast off by the older colonies . 
I must add quickly that we got more than our share of their best stock along with this . 
No sooner had the sun begun to pit the snow hillocks than wild creatures came in from the mountains , haggard with hunger and hardship . 
They had left their homes in Virginia and the Carolinas in the autumn an unheralded winter of Arctic fierceness had caught them in its grip . 
Bitter tales they told of wives and children buried among the rocks . 
The little forts would not hold them and they went out to hew clearings from the forest , and to build cabins and stockades . 
And our own people , starved and snowbound , went out likewise , Tom and Polly Ann and their little family and myself to the farm at the river side . 
But Tom was no husbandman . 
He and his kind were the scouts , the advance guard of civilization , not tillers of the soil or lovers of close communities . 
Farther and farther they went afield for game , and always they grumbled sorely against this horde which had driven the deer from his cover and the buffalo from his wallow . 
Looking back , I can recall one evening when the long summer twilight lingered to a close . 
Tom was lounging lazily against the big persimmon tree , smoking his pipe , the two children digging at the roots , and Polly Ann , seated on the door log , sewing . 
As I drew near , she looked up at me from her work . 
She was a woman upon whose eternal freshness industry made no mar . 
Davy , '' she exclaimed , how ye've growed ! I thought ye'd be a wizened little body , but this year ye've shot up like a cornstalk . 
'' My father was six feet two inches in his moccasins , '' I said . 
He'll be wallopin' me soon , '' said Tom , with a grin . 
'' Tom , '' said I , there's a bit of a fall on the river here . 
'' Ay , '' he said , and nary a fish left . 
'' Something better , '' I answered we'll put a dam there and a mill and a hominy pounder . 
'' And make our fortune grinding corn for the settlers , '' cried Polly Ann , showing a line of very white teeth . 
I always said ye'd be a rich man , Davy . 
'' Tom was mildly interested , and went with us at daylight to measure the fall . 
And he allowed that he would have the more time to hunt if the mill were a success . 
And fixed on the wheel there was to be a crank that worked the pounder in the mortar . 
So we were to grind until I could arrange with Mr. Scarlett , the new storekeeper in Harrodstown , to have two grinding stones fetched across the mountains . 
Often they gave us a lift . 
It was September when the millstones arrived , and I spent a joyous morning of final bargaining with Mr. Myron Scarlett . 
These he sold at great profit . 
Half the village watched the barter . 
The rest lounged sullenly about the land court . 
The land court curse of Kentucky ! It was just a windowless log house built outside the walls , our temple of avarice . 
believed that he had bought the country , and issued grants therefor . 
Tom held one of these grants , alas , and many others whom I knew . 
Keen faced speculators bought acre upon acre and tract upon tract from the State , and crossed the mountains to extort . 
Claims conflicted , titles lapped . 
Even as I looked upon this strife a man stood beside me . 
'' I turned with a start , and there was Mr. Daniel Boone . 
Howdy , Davy , '' he said ye've growed some sence ye've ben with Clark . 
'' He paused , and then continued in the same strain 'Tis the same at Boonesboro and up thar at the Falls settlement . 
The critters is everywhar , robbin' men of their claims . 
Davy , '' said Mr. Boone , earnestly , you know that I come into Kaintuckee when it waren't nothin' but wilderness , and resked my life time and again . 
Them varmints is wuss'n redskins , they've robbed me already of half my claims . 
'' Robbed you ! '' I exclaimed , indignant that he , of all men , should suffer . 
Ay , '' he said , robbed me . 
They've took one claim after another , tracts that I staked out long afore they heerd of Kaintuckee . 
'' He rubbed his rifle barrel with his buckskin sleeve . 
I get a little for my skins , and a little by surveyin' . 
But when the game goes I reckon I'll go after it . 
'' Where , Mr. Boone ? '' I asked . 
Whar ? whar the varmints cyant foller . 
Acrost the Mississippi into the Spanish wilderness . 
'' And leave Kentucky ? '' I cried . 
Davy , '' he answered sadly , you kin cope with 'em . 
They tell me you're buildin' a mill up at McChesney's , and I reckon you're as cute as any of 'em . 
I'm good for nothin' but shootin' and explorin' . 
'' We stood silent for a while , our attention caught by a quarrel which had suddenly come out of the doorway . 
One of the men was Jim Willis , my friend of Clark's campaign , who had a Henderson claim near Shawanee Springs . 
The other was the hawk eyed man of whom Mr. Boone had spoken , and fragments of their curses reached us where we stood . 
Mr. Boone did not move . 
It was a common enough spectacle for him , and he was not excitable . 
Moreover , he knew that the death of one extortioner more or less would have no effect on the system . 
They had become as the fowls of the air . 
I was acrost the mountain last month , '' said Mr. Boone , presently , and one of them skunks had stole Campbell's silver spoons at Abingdon . 
Campbell was out arter him for a week with a coil of rope on his saddle . 
But the varmint got to cover . 
'' Mr. Boone wished me luck in my new enterprise , bade me good by , and set out for Redstone , where he was to measure a tract for a Revolutioner . 
Half of McAfee's new station had heard the news , and came over likewise . 
And from that day we ground as much corn as could be brought to us from miles around . 
Polly Ann and I ran the mill and kept the accounts . 
Often of a crisp autumn morning we heard a gobble gobble above the tumbling of the water and found a wild turkey perched on top of the hopper , eating his fill . 
Some of our meat we got that way . 
As for Tom , he was off and on . 
When the roving spirit seized him he made journeys to the westward with Cowan and Ray . 
Generally they returned with packs of skins . 
But sometimes soberly , thanking Heaven that their hair was left growing on their heads . 
This , and patrolling the Wilderness Road and other militia duties , made up Tom's life . 
No sooner was the mill fairly started than off he went to the Cumberland . 
I mention this , not alone because I remember well the day of his return , but because of a certain happening then that had a heavy influence on my after life . 
The episode deals with an easy mannered gentleman named Potts , who was the agent for a certain Major Colfax of Virginia . 
Tom owned under a Henderson grant the Major had been given this and other lands for his services in the war . 
Mr. Potts arrived one rainy afternoon and found me standing alone under the little lean to that covered the hopper . 
How we served him , with the aid of McCann and Cowan and other neighbors , and how we were near getting into trouble because of the prank , will be seen later . 
The next morning I rode into Harrodstown not wholly easy in my mind concerning the wisdom of the thing I had done . 
There was no one to advise me , for Colonel Clark was far away , building a fort on the banks of the Mississippi . 
Tom had laughed at the consequences he cared little about his land , and was for moving into the Wilderness again . 
But for Polly Ann's sake I wished that we had treated the land agent less cavalierly . 
I was soon distracted from these thoughts by the sight of Harrodstown itself . 
Urging on the mare , I cantered across the fields , and the first person I met was James Ray . 
What's the matter ? '' I asked . 
Matter enough ! An army of redskins has crossed the Ohio , and not a man to take command . 
'' Have you sent word to the Colonel ? '' I asked . 
If he was here , '' said Ray , bitterly , he'd have half of 'em swinging inside of an hour . 
I'll warrant he'd send 'em to the right about . 
'' I rode on into the town , Potts gone out of my mind . 
A contrast they were , these buckskin clad pioneers , to the ill assorted humanity they watched , absorbed in struggles for the very lands they had won . 
By the eternal ! '' said Jack Terrell , if the yea'th was ter swaller 'em up , they'd keep on a dickerin in hell . 
'' Something's got to be done , '' Captain Harrod put in gloomily the red varmints'll be on us in another day . 
In God's name , whar is Clark ? '' Hold ! '' cried Fletcher Blount , what's that ? '' The broiling about the land court , too , was suddenly hushed . 
Men stopped in their tracks , staring fixedly at three forms which had come out of the woods into the clearing . 
Redskins , or there's no devil ! '' said Terrell . 
Redskins they were , but not the blanketed kind that drifted every day through the station . 
Their war paint gleamed in the light , and the white edges of the feathered head dresses caught the sun . 
One held up in his right hand a white belt , token of peace on the frontier . 
Lord A'mighty ! '' said Fletcher Blount , be they Cricks ? '' Chickasaws , by the headgear , '' said Terrell . 
Davy , you've got a hoss . 
Ride out and look em over . 
'' Nothing loath , I put the mare into a gallop , and I passed over the very place where Polly Ann had picked me up and saved my life long since . 
The Indians came on at a dog trot , but when they were within fifty paces of me they halted abruptly . 
The chief waved the white belt around his head . 
Davy ! '' says he , and I trembled from head to foot . 
How well I knew that voice ! Colonel Clark ! '' I cried , and rode up to him . 
Thank God you are come , sir , '' said I , for the people here are land mad , and the Northern Indians are crossing the Ohio . 
'' He took my bridle , and , leading the horse , began to walk rapidly towards the station . 
Ay , '' he answered , I know it . 
A runner came to me with the tidings , where I was building a fort on the Mississippi , and I took Willis here and Saunders , and came . 
'' I glanced at my old friends , who grinned at me through the berry stain on their faces . 
We reached a ditch through which the rain of the night before was draining from the fields Clark dropped the bridle , stooped down , and rubbed his face clean . 
Up he got again and flung the feathers from his head , and I thought that his eyes twinkled despite the sternness of his look . 
Davy , my lad , '' said he , you and I have seen some strange things together . 
Perchance we shall see stranger to day . 
'' A shout went up , for he had been recognized . 
ran up to greet him and press his hand . 
There he stood for a full minute , and we who knew him looked on silently and waited . 
The turmoil had begun again , the speculators calling out in strident tones , the settlers bargaining and pushing , and all clamoring to be heard . 
While there was money to be made or land to be got they had no ear for the public weal . 
A man shouldered his way through , roughly , and they gave back , cursing , surprised . 
He reached the door , and , flinging those who blocked it right and left , entered . 
There he was recognized , and his name flew from mouth to mouth . 
Clark ! '' He walked up to the table , strewn with books and deeds . 
Silence ! '' he thundered . 
But there was no need , they were still for once . 
This court is closed , '' he cried while Kentucky is in danger . 
Not a deed shall be signed nor an acre granted until I come back from the Ohio . 
Out you go ! '' Out they went indeed , judge , brokers , speculators the evicted and the triumphant together . 
And when the place was empty Clark turned the key and thrust it into his hunting shirt . 
He stood for a moment on the step , and his eyes swept the crowd . 
Now , '' he said , there have been many to claim this land who will follow me to defend it ? '' As I live , they cheered him . 
Hands were flung up that were past counting , and men who were barely rested from the hardships of the Wilderness Trail shouted their readiness to go . 
But others slunk away , and were found that morning grumbling and cursing the chance that had brought them to Kentucky . 
The Colonel turned to me as he sat writing down the names of the volunteers . 
Davy , '' said he , when you are grown you shall not stay at home , I promise you . 
Take your mare and ride as for your life to McChesney , and tell him to choose ten men and go to the Crab Orchard on the Wilderness Road . 
Tell him for me to turn back every man , woman , and child who tries to leave Kentucky . 
'' I met Tom coming in from the field with his rawhide harness over his shoulders . 
Polly Ann stood calling him in the door , and the squirrel broth was steaming on the table . 
He did not wait for it . 
Kissing her , he flung himself into the saddle I had left , and we watched him mutely as he waved back to us from the edge of the woods . 
In the night I found myself sitting up in bed , listening to a running and stamping near the cabin . 
Davy , '' she whispered , the stock is oneasy . 
'' We peered out of the loophole together and through the little orchard we had planted . 
The moon flooded the fields , and beyond it the forest was a dark blur . 
That very evening Polly Ann had frightened him into obedience by telling him that the Shawanees would get him . 
What was there to do ? McAfee's Station was four miles away , and Ray's clearing two . 
Ray was gone with Tom . 
I could not leave Polly Ann alone . 
There was nothing for it but to wait . 
For Polly Ann had learned to shoot . 
She took the loopholes of two sides of the cabin , I of the other two , and then began the fearful watching and waiting which the frontier knows so well . 
Suddenly the cattle stirred again , and stampeded to the other corner of the field . 
There came a whisper from Polly Ann . 
What is it ? '' I answered , running over to her . 
How I wished that Tom were home ! A stealthy sound began to intrude itself upon our ears . 
Listening intently , I thought it came from the side of the cabin where the lean to was , where we stored our wood in winter . 
The black shadow fell on that side , and into a patch of bushes peering out of the loophole , I could perceive nothing there . 
The noise went on at intervals . 
All at once there grew on me , with horror , the discovery that there was digging under the cabin . 
How long the sound continued I know not , it might have been an hour , it might have been less . 
Now I thought I heard it under the wall , now beneath the puncheons of the floor . 
The pitchy blackness within was such that we could not see the boards moving , and therefore we must needs kneel down and feel them from time to time . 
Yes , this one was lifting from its bed on the hard earth beneath . 
I was sure of it . 
It rose an inch then an inch more . 
Gripping the handle of my tomahawk , I prayed for guidance in my stroke , for the blade might go wild in the darkness . 
Upward crept the board , and suddenly it was gone from the floor . 
I swung a full circle and to my horror I felt the axe plunging into soft flesh and crunching on a bone . 
I had missed the head ! A yell shattered the nights the puncheon fell with a rattle on the boards , and my tomahawk was gone from my hand . 
Without , the fierce war cry of the Shawanees that I knew so well echoed around the log walls , and the door trembled with a blow . 
The children awoke , crying . 
There was no time to think my great fear was that the devil in the cabin would kill Polly Ann . 
Just then I heard her calling out to me . 
Hide ! '' I cried , hide under the shake down ! Has he got you ? '' I heard her answer , and then the sound of a scuffle that maddened me . 
Knife in hand , I crept slowly about , and put my fingers on a man's neck and side . 
Next Polly Ann careened against me , and I lost him again . 
Davy , Davy , '' I heard her gasp , look out fer the floor ! '' It was too late . 
The puncheon rose under me , I stumbled , and it fell again . 
Once more the awful changing notes of the war whoop sounded without . 
A body bumped on the boards , a white light rose before my eyes , and a sharp pain leaped in my side . 
Then all was black again , but I had my senses still , and my fingers closed around the knotted muscles of an arm . 
I thrust the pistol in my hand against flesh , and fired . 
Two of us fell together , but the thought of Polly Ann got me staggering to my feet again , calling her name . 
By the grace of God I heard her answer . 
Are ye hurt , Davy ? '' No , '' said I , no . 
And you ? '' We drifted together . 
'Twas she who had the presence of mind . 
The chest quick , the chest ! '' We stumbled over a body in reaching it . 
We seized the handles , and with all our strength hauled it athwart the loose puncheon that seemed to be lifting even then . 
A mighty splintering shook the door . 
To the ports ! '' cried Polly Ann , as our heads knocked together . 
To find the rifles and prime them seemed to take an age . 
Next I was staring through the loophole along a barrel , and beyond it were three black forms in line on a long beam . 
I think we fired Polly Ann and I at the same time . 
We saw a comedy of the beam dropping heavily on the foot of another , and he limping off with a guttural howl of rage and pain . 
I fired a pistol at him , but missed him , and then I was ramming a powder charge down the long barrel of the rifle . 
Suddenly there was silence , even the children had ceased crying . 
Outside , in the dooryard , a feathered figure writhed like a snake towards the fence . 
The moon still etched the picture in black and white . 
Shots awoke me , I think , distant shots . 
And they sounded like the ripping and tearing of cloth for a wound . 
'Twas no new sound to me . 
Davy , dear , '' said a voice , tenderly . 
Out of the mist the tear stained face of Polly Ann bent over me . 
I put up my hand , and dropped it again with a cry . 
Then my glance wandered to the floor , and on the puncheons were three stains . 
Again came a far off rattle , like stones falling from a great height down a rocky bluff . 
What's that ? '' I whispered . 
They're fighting at McAfee's Station , '' said Polly Ann . 
She put her cool hand on my head , and little Tom climbed up on the bed and looked up into my face , wistfully calling my name . 
Oh , Davy , '' said his mother , I thought ye were never coming back . 
'' And the redskins ? '' I asked . 
She drew the child away , lest he hurt me , and shuddered . 
I reckon 'twas only a war party , '' she answered . 
The rest is at McAfee's . 
And if they beat 'em off '' she stopped abruptly . 
We shall be saved , '' I said . 
I shall never forget that day . 
Polly Ann left my side only to feed the children and to keep watch out of the loopholes , and I lay on my back , listening and listening to the shots . 
At last these became scattered . 
Then , though we strained our ears , we heard them no more . 
I was afeard to open the door and throw 'em out , '' said Polly Ann , apologetically . 
One of them had a great cleft across his face . 
But I thought I hit him in the shoulder , '' I exclaimed . 
Polly Ann thrust her hand , gently , across my eyes . 
Davy , ye mustn't talk , '' she said that's a dear . 
You killed him , Polly Ann , '' I murmured , you ? '' Hush , '' said Polly Ann . 
CHAPTER II THE BEGGARS ARE COME TO TOWN'' They was that destitute , '' said Tom , 'twas a pity to see 'em . 
'' And they be grand folks , ye say ? '' said Polly Ann . 
Grand folks , I reckon . 
And helpless as babes on the Wilderness Trail . 
They had two niggers his nigger an' hers and they was tuckered , too , fer a fact . 
Lawsy ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann . 
Whar did ye find 'em , Tom ? '' 'Twas Jim Ray found 'em , '' said Tom . 
We went up to Crab Orchard , accordin' to the Colonel's orders and we was thar three days . 
Ye ought to hev seen the trash we turned back , Polly Ann ! Most of 'em was scared plum' crazy , and they was fer gittin 'out 'n Kaintuckee at any cost . 
Some was fer fightin' their way through us . 
'' The skulks ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann . 
They tried to kill ye ? What did ye do ? '' Tom grinned , his mouth full of bacon . 
Do ? '' says he we shot a couple of 'em in the legs and arms , and bound 'em up again . 
They was in a t'arin' rage . 
I'm more afeard of a scar't man , a real scar't man nor a rattler . 
They cussed us till they was hoarse . 
Said they'd hev us hung , an' Clark , too . 
Said they hed a right to go back to Virginny if they hed a mind . 
'' An' what did ye say ? '' demanded Polly Ann , pausing in her work , her eyes flashing with resentment . 
Did ye tell 'em they was cowards to want to settle lands , and not fight for 'em ? Other folks' lands , too . 
'' We didn't tell 'em nothin' , '' said Tom jest sent 'em kitin' back to the stations whar they come from . 
'' I reckon they won't go foolin' with Clark's boys again , '' said Polly Ann , resuming a vigorous rubbing of the skillet . 
Ye was tellin' me about these fine folks ye fetched home . 
'' She tossed her head in the direction of the open door , and I wondered if the fine folks were outside . 
Oh , ay , '' said Tom , they was comin' this way , from the Carolinys . 
Jim Ray went out to look for a deer , and found 'em off 'n the trail . 
By the etarnal , they WAS tuckered . 
HE was the wust , Jim said , lyin' down on a bed of laurels she and the niggers made . 
She has sperrit , that woman . 
Jim fed him , and he got up . 
She wouldn't eat nothin' , and made Jim put him on his hoss . 
I can't mek out why them aristocrats wants to come to Kaintuckee . 
They're a sight too tender . 
'' Pore things ! '' said Polly Ann , compassionately . 
So ye fetched 'em home . 
'' They hadn't a place ter go , '' said he , and I reckoned 'twould give 'em time ter ketch breath , an' turn around . 
I told 'em livin' in Kaintuck was kinder rough . 
'' Mercy ! '' said Polly Ann , ter think that they was use' ter silver spoons , and linen , and niggers ter wait on 'em . 
Tom , ye must shoot a turkey , and I'll do my best to give 'em a good supper . 
'' Tom rose obediently , and seized his coonskin hat . 
She stopped him with a word . 
'' Ay ? '' Mayhap mayhap Davy would know 'em . 
He's been to Charlestown with the gentry there . 
'' Mayhap , '' agreed Tom . 
Pore little deevil , '' said he , he's hed a hard time . 
'' He'll be right again soon , '' said Polly Ann . 
He's been sleepin' that way , off and on , fer a week . 
'' Her voice faltered into a note of tenderness as her eyes rested on me . 
I reckon we owe Davy a heap , Polly Ann , '' said he . 
I was about to interrupt , but Polly Ann's next remark arrested me . 
Tom , '' said she , he oughter be eddicated . 
'' Eddicated ! '' exclaimed Tom , with a kind of dismay . 
Yes , eddicated , '' she repeated . 
He ain't like you and me . 
He oughter be a lawyer , or somethin' . 
Ay , '' he answered , the Colonel says that same thing . 
He oughter be sent over the mountain to git l'arnin' . 
'' And we'll be missing him sore , '' said Polly Ann , with a sigh . 
I wanted to speak then , but the words would not come . 
Whar hev they gone ? '' said Tom . 
To take a walk , '' said Polly Ann , and laughed . 
The gentry has sech fancies as that . 
Tom , I reckon I'll fly over to Mrs. McCann's an' beg some of that prime bacon she has . 
'' Tom picked up his ride , and they went out together . 
I lay for a long time reflecting . 
To the strange guests whom Tom in the kindness of his heart had brought back and befriended I gave little attention . 
I was overwhelmed by the love which had just been revealed to me . 
And so I was to be educated . 
It had been in my mind these many years , but I had never spoken of it to Polly Ann . 
Dear Polly Ann ! My eyes filled at the thought that she herself had determined upon this sacrifice . 
There were footsteps at the door , and these I heard , and heeded not . 
Then there came a voice , a woman's voice , modulated and trained in the perfections of speech and in the art of treating things lightly . 
At the sound of that voice I caught my breath . 
What a pastoral ! Harry , if we have sought for virtue in the wilderness , we have found it . 
'' When have we ever sought for virtue , Sarah ? '' It was the man who answered and stirred another chord of my memory . 
When , indeed ! '' said the woman 'tis a luxury that is denied us , I fear me . 
'' Egad , we have run the gamut , all but that . 
'' I thought the woman sighed . 
Our hosts are gone out , '' she said , bless their simple souls ! 'Tis Arcady , Harry , where thieves do not break in and steal . 
That's Biblical , isn't it ? '' She paused , and joined in the man's laugh . 
I remember '' She stopped abruptly . 
Thieves ! '' said he , not in our sense . 
And yet a fortnight ago this sylvan retreat was the scene of murder and sudden death . 
'' Yes , Indians , '' said the woman but they are beaten off and forgotten . 
Troubles do not last here . 
Did you see the boy ? He's in there , in the corner , getting well of a fearful hacking . 
Mrs. McChesney says he saved her and her brats . 
'' Ay , McChesney told me , '' said the man . 
Let's have a peep at him . 
'' In they came , and I looked on the woman , and would have leaped from my bed had the strength been in me . 
Little , dark pencilled lines under the eyes were nigh robbing these of the haughtiness I had once seen and hated . 
Set high on her hair was a curving , green hat with a feather , ill suited to the wilderness . 
I looked on the man . 
He was as ill equipped as she . 
A London tailor must have cut his suit of gray . 
Some had been torn off . 
As for his face , 'twas as handsome as ever , for dissipation sat well upon it . 
My thoughts flew back to that day long gone when a friendless boy rode up a long drive to a pillared mansion . 
I saw again the picture . 
She clutched Mr. Riddle's arm . 
Harry ! '' she cried , Harry , he puts me in mind of of some one I cannot think . 
'' Mr. Riddle laughed nervously . 
There , there , Sally , '' says he , all brats resemble somebody . 
I have heard you say so a dozen times . 
'' She turned upon him an appealing glance . 
'' Or the lack of it , '' answered Mr. Riddle , pulling out a silver snuff box from his pocket and staring at it ruefully . 
Damme , the snuff I fetched from Paris is gone , all but a pinch . 
Here is a real tragedy . 
'' It was the same in Rome , '' the lady continued , unheeding , when we met the Izards , and at Venice that nasty Colonel Tarleton saw us at the opera . 
In London we must needs run into the Manners from Maryland . 
In Paris '' In Paris we were safe enough , '' Mr. Riddle threw in hastily . 
And why ? '' she flashed back at him . 
He did not answer that . 
A truce with your fancies , madam , '' said he . 
Behold a soul of good nature ! I have followed you through half the civilized countries of the globe none of them are good enough . 
You must needs cross the ocean again , and come to the wilds . 
We nearly die on the trail , are picked up by a Samaritan in buckskin and taken into the bosom of his worthy family . 
And forsooth , you look at a backwoods urchin , and are nigh to swooning . 
'' Hush , Harry , '' she cried , starting forward and peering into my face he will hear you . 
'' Tut ! '' said Harry , what if he does ? London and Paris are words to him . 
We might as well be speaking French . 
And I'll take my oath he's sleeping . 
'' The corner where I lay was dark , for the cabin had no windows . 
And if my life had depended upon speaking , I could have found no fit words then . 
She turned from me , and her mood changed swiftly . 
For she laughed lightly , musically , and put a hand on his shoulder . 
Perchance I am ghost ridden , '' she said . 
They are not ghosts of a past happiness , at all events , '' he answered . 
She sat down on a stool before the hearth , and clasping her fingers upon her knee looked thoughtfully into the embers of the fire . 
Presently she began to speak in a low , even voice , he looking down at her , his feet apart , his hand thrust backward towards the heat . 
Damnably jealous ! '' agreed Mr. Riddle , and yawned . 
Served him devilish right for marrying you . 
And he was a blind fool for five long years . 
'' Yes , blind , '' the lady agreed . 
How could he have been so blind ? How well I recall the day he rode after us in the woods . 
'' 'Twas the parson told , curse him ! '' said Mr. Riddle . 
We should have gone that night , if your courage had held . 
'' My courage ! '' she cried , flashing a look upwards , my foresight . 
A pretty mess we had made of it without my inheritance . 
'Tis small enough , the Lord knows . 
In Europe we should have been dregs . 
We should have starved in the wilderness with you a farming . 
'' He looked down at her curiously . 
Devilish queer talk , '' said he , but while we are in it , I wonder where Temple is now . 
He got aboard the King's frigate with a price on his head . 
Williams told me he saw him in London , at White's . 
Have have you ever heard , Sarah ? '' She shook her head , her glance returning to the ashes . 
No , '' she answered . 
Faith , '' says Mr. Riddle , he'll scarce turn up here . 
'' She did not answer that , but sat motionless . 
He'll scarce turn up here , in these wilds , '' Mr. Riddle repeated , and what I am wondering , Sarah , is how the devil we are to live here . 
'' How do these good people live , who helped us when we were starving ? '' Mr. Riddle flung his hand eloquently around the cabin . 
There was something of disgust in the gesture . 
You see ! '' he said , love in a cottage . 
'' But it is love , '' said the lady , in a low tone . 
Cleaning the pots and pans , and standing anxious at the doorway staring through a sunbonnet for your lord and master . 
'' My lord and master ! '' said the lady , and there was so much of scorn in the words that Mr. Riddle winced . 
Dominique , to the suppers and the card parties of the countess . 
We'll be rid of regrets for a life upon which we have turned our backs forever . 
'' She shook her head , sadly . 
It's no use , Harry , '' said she , we'll never be rid of regrets . 
'' We'll never have a barony like Temple Bow , and races every week , and gentry round about . 
But , damn it , the Rebels have spoiled all that since the war . 
'' Those are not the regrets I mean , '' answered Mrs. Temple . 
What then , in Heaven's name ? '' he cried . 
You were not wont to be thus . 
But now I vow you go beyond me . 
What then ? '' She did not answer , but sat leaning forward over the hearth , he staring at her in angry perplexity . 
A sound broke the afternoon stillness , the pattering of small , bare feet on the puncheons . 
A tremor shook the woman's shoulders , and little Tom stood before her , a quaint figure in a butternut smock , his blue eyes questioning . 
He laid a hand on her arm . 
Then a strange thing happened . 
With a sudden impulse she turned and flung her arms about the boy and strained him to her , and kissed his brown hair . 
He struggled , but when she released him he sat very still on her knee , looking into her face . 
For he was a solemn child . 
The lady smiled at him , and there were two splashes like raindrops on her fair cheeks . 
As for Mr. Riddle , he went to the door , looked out , and took a last pinch of snuff . 
Here is the mistress of the house coming back , '' he cried , and singing like the shepherdess in the opera . 
'' It was Polly Ann indeed . 
At the sound of his mother's voice , little Tom jumped down from the lady's lap and ran past Mr. Riddle at the door . 
Mrs. Temple's thoughts were gone across the mountains . 
And what is that you have under your arm ? '' said Mr. Riddle , as he gave back . 
I've fetched some prime bacon fer your supper , sir , '' said Polly Ann , all rosy from her walk what I have ain't fit to give ye . 
My dear , '' she said , what you have is too good for us . 
And if you do such a thing again , I shall be very angry . 
Lord , ma'am , '' exclaimed Polly Ann , and you use' ter dainties an' silver an' linen ! Tom is gone to try to git a turkey for ye . 
'' She paused , and looked compassionately at the lady . 
Bless ye , ma'am , ye're that tuckered from the mountains ! 'Tis a fearsome journey . 
'' Yes , '' said the lady , simply , I am tired . 
'' Small wonder ! '' exclaimed Polly Ann . 
To think what ye've been through yere husband near to dyin' afore yere eyes , and ye a reskin' yere own life to save him so Tom tells me . 
When Tom goes out a fightin' red skins I'm that fidgety I can't set still . 
I wouldn't let him know what I feel fer the world . 
But well ye know the pain of it , who love yere husband like that . 
'' The lady would have smiled bravely , had the strength been given her . 
And then , with a shudder , she hid her face in her hands . 
Oh , don't ! '' she exclaimed , don't ! '' Mr. Riddle went out . 
There , there , ma'am , '' she said , I hedn't no right ter speak , and ye fair worn out . 
'' She drew her gently into a chair . 
Set down , ma'am , and don't ye stir tell supper's ready . 
'' She brushed her eyes with her sleeve , and , stepping briskly to my bed , bent over me . 
Davy , '' she said , Davy , how be ye ? '' Davy ! '' It was the lady's voice . 
She stood facing us , and never while I live shall I forget that which I saw in her eyes . 
Some resemblance it bore to the look of the hunted deer , but in the animal it is dumb , appealing . 
Understanding made the look of the woman terrible to behold , understanding , ay , and courage . 
For she did not lack this last quality . 
Polly Ann gave back in a kind of dismay , and I shivered . 
Yes , '' I answered , I am David Ritchie . 
'' You you dare to judge me ! '' she cried . 
I knew not why she said this . 
To judge you ? '' I repeated . 
Yes , to judge me , '' she answered . 
I know you , David Ritchie , and the blood that runs in you . 
, who lifted her eyebrows when I married her brother , John Temple . 
That was her condemnation of me , and it stung me more than had a thousand sermons . 
A doting saint , because she followed your father into the mountain wilds to her death for a whim of his . 
A Calvinist fanatic who had no mercy on sin , save for that particular weakness of his own '' Stop , Mrs. Temple ! '' I cried , lifting up in bed . 
And to my astonishment she was silenced , looking at me in amazement . 
You had your vengeance when I came to you , when you turned from me with a lift of your shoulders at the news of my father's death . 
And now '' And now ? '' she repeated questioningly . 
Now I thought you were changed , '' I said slowly , for the excitement was telling on me . 
You listened ! '' she said . 
'' Oh , pity ! '' she cried . 
My God , that you should pity me ! '' She straightened , and summoned all the spirit that was in her . 
I would rather be called a name than have the pity of you and yours . 
'' You cannot change it , Mrs. Temple , '' I answered , and fell back on the nettle bark sheets . 
You cannot change it , '' I heard myself repeating , as though it were another's voice . 
And I knew that Polly Ann was bending over me and calling me . 
Where did they go , Polly Ann ? '' I asked . 
Acrost the Mississippi , to the lands of the Spanish King , '' said Polly Ann . 
And where in those dominions ? '' I demanded . 
John Saunders took 'em as far as the Falls , '' Polly Ann answered . 
He 'lowed they was goin' to St . 
But they never said a word . 
I reckon they'll be hunted as long as they live . 
'' I had thought of them much as I lay on my back recovering from the fever , the fever for which Mrs. Temple was to blame . 
Yet I bore her no malice . 
And many other thoughts I had , probing back into childhood memories for the solving of problems there . 
I knowed ye come of gentlefolks , Davy , '' Polly Ann had said when we talked together . 
So I was first cousin to Nick , and nephew to that selfish gentleman , Mr. Temple , in whose affectionate care I had been left in Charlestown by my father . 
And my father ? Who had he been ? I remembered the speech that he had used and taught me , and how his neighbors had dubbed him aristocrat . 
'' But Mrs. Temple was gone , and it was not in likelihood that I should ever see her more . 
CHAPTER III WE GO TO DANVILLE Two years went by , two uneventful years for me , two mighty years for Kentucky . 
Westward rolled the tide of emigrants to change her character , but to swell her power . 
Towns and settlements sprang up in a season and flourished , and a man could scarce keep pace with the growth of them . 
Doctors came , and ministers , and lawyers generals and majors , and captains and subalterns of the Revolution , to till their grants and to found families . 
There were gentry , too , from the tide waters , come to retrieve the fortunes which they had lost by their patriotism . 
I must not forget how , at the age of seventeen , I became a landowner , thanks to my name being on the roll of Colonel Clark's regiment . 
Section fronted the Ohio some distance above Bear Grass Creek , and was , of course , on the Illinois shore . 
As for my own plots , some miles in the interior , I never saw them . 
But I own them to this day . 
I mention these things as bearing on the story of my life , with which I must get on . 
And , therefore , I may not dwell upon this injustice to the men who won an empire and were flung a bone long afterwards . 
What's this ? '' says Tom , staring at it blankly . 
Ye won't blame me , Mac , '' answers Mr. Jarrott , somewhat ashamed of his role of process server . 
'Tain't none of my doin's . 
'' Read it , Davy , '' said Tom , giving it to me . 
I stopped the mill , and , unfolding the paper , read . 
I remember not the quaint wording of it , save that it was ill spelled and ill writ generally . 
Neville Colfax ! '' I exclaimed , that's the man for whom Mr. Potts was agent . 
'' Ay , ay , '' said Tom , and sat him down on the meal bags . 
Drat the varmint , he kin hev the land . 
'' Hev the land ? '' cried Polly Ann , who had come in upon us . 
Hev ye no sperrit , Tom McChesney ? '' There's no chance ag'in the law , '' said Tom , hopelessly . 
Thar's Perkins had his land tuck away last year , and Terrell's moved out , and twenty more I could name . 
And thar's Dan'l Boone , himself . 
Most the rich bottom he tuck up the critters hev got away from him . 
'' Ye'll go to Danville and take Davy with ye and fight it , '' answered Polly Ann , decidedly . 
Davy has a word to say , I reckon . 
'Twas he made the mill and scar't that Mr. Potts away . 
I reckon he'll git us out of this fix . 
'' Mr. Jarrott applauded her courage . 
Ye have the grit , ma'am , '' he said , as he mounted his horse again . 
Here's luck to ye ! '' The remembrance of Mr. Potts weighed heavily upon my mind during the next week . 
Perchance Tom would have to pay for this prank likewise . 
'Twas indeed a foolish , childish thing to have done , and I might have known that it would only have put off the evil day of reckoning . 
Since then , by reason of the mill site and the business we got by it , the land had become the most valuable in that part of the country . 
Had I known Colonel Clark's whereabouts , I should have gone to him for advice and comfort . 
As it was , we were forced to await the issue without counsel . 
Polly Ann and I talked it over many times while Tom sat , morose and silent , in a corner . 
He was the pioneer pure and simple , afraid of no man , red or white , in open combat , but defenceless in such matters as this . 
'Tis Davy will save us , Tom , '' said Polly Ann , with the l'arnin' he's got while the corn was grindin' . 
'' I had , indeed , been reading at the mill while the hopper emptied itself , such odd books as drifted into Harrodstown . 
One of these was called Bacon's Abridgment'' it dealt with law and it puzzled me sorely . 
'' There were four of them now , indeed , the youngest still in the bark cradle in the corner . 
He bore a no less illustrious name than that of the writer of these chronicles . 
It would be hard to say which was the more troubled , Tom or I , that windy morning we set out on the Danville trace . 
Polly Ann alone had been serene , ay , and smiling and hopeful . 
She had kissed us each good by impartially . 
And we left her , with a future governor of Kentucky on her shoulder , tripping lightly down to the mill to grind the McGarrys' corn . 
When the forest was cleared at Danville , Justice was housed first . 
She was not the serene , inexorable dame whom we have seen in pictures holding her scales above the jars of earth . 
Justice at Danville was a somewhat high spirited , quarrelsome lady who decided matters oftenest with the stroke of a sword . 
There was a certain dignity about her temple withal , for instance , if a judge wore linen , that linen must not be soiled . 
There was a temple built to her of hewed or sawed logs nine inches thick'' so said the specifications . 
Here was a sprinkling of log cabins , some in the building , and an inn , by courtesy so called . 
But to come back to our arrival . 
It was a sunny and windy afternoon , and the leaves were flying in the air . 
These were adventurous young gentlemen of family , some of them lawyers and some of them late officers in the Continental army who had been rewarded with grants of land . 
Thar's Mac , '' cried a backwoodsman who was sitting on the court house steps as we rode up . 
Howdy , Mac be they tryin' to git your land , too ? '' Howdy , Mac , '' said a dozen more , paying a tribute to Tom's popularity . 
And some of them greeted me . 
Is this whar they take a man's land away ? '' says Tom , jerking his thumb at the open door . 
Tom had no intention of uttering a witticism , but his words were followed by loud guffaws from all sides , even the lawyers joining in . 
I reckon this is the place , Tom , '' came the answer . 
I reckon I'll take a peep in thar , '' said Tom , leaping off his horse and shouldering his way to the door . 
I followed him , curious . 
The building was half full . 
Two elderly gentlemen of grave demeanor sat on stools behind a puncheon table , and near them a young man was writing . 
Behind the young man was a young gentleman who was closing a speech as we entered , and he had spoken with such vehemence that the perspiration stood out on his brow . 
There was a murmur from those listening , and I saw Tom pressing his way to the front . 
Hev any of ye seen a feller named Colfax ? '' cries Tom , in a loud voice . 
He says he owns the land I settled , and he ain't ever seed it . 
'' There was a roar of laughter , and even the judges smiled . 
Whar is he ? '' cries Tom said he'd be here to day . 
'' Another gust of laughter drowned his words , and then one of the judges got up and rapped on the table . 
The gentleman who had just made the speech glared mightily , and I supposed he had lost the effect of it . 
What do you mean by interrupting the court ? '' cried the judge . 
Get out , sir , or I'll have you fined for contempt . 
But at that moment a hand was laid on his shoulder , and Tom turned . 
Why , '' says he , thar's no devil if it ain't the Colonel . 
Polly Ann told me not to let 'em scar' me , Colonel . 
'' And quite right , Tom , '' Colonel Clark answered , smiling . 
He turned to the judges . 
If your Honors please , '' said he , this gentleman is an old soldier of mine , and unused to the ways of court . 
I beg your Honors to excuse him . 
'' The judges smiled back , and the Colonel led us out of the building . 
I have a case of my own at present . 
'' Tom was very grateful . 
Tom being one of the best shots in Kentucky , he had won two beaver skins before the early autumn twilight fell . 
The landlord's slovenly negro came in with candles , their feeble rays reenforcing the firelight and revealing the mud chinked walls . 
Tom and I had barely sat ourselves down at a table in a corner , when in came Colonel Clark . 
Beside him was a certain swarthy gentleman whom I had noticed in the court , a man of some thirty five years , with a fine , fleshy face and coal black hair . 
His expression was not one to give us the hope of an amicable settlement , in fact , he had the scowl of a thundercloud . 
He was talking quite angrily , and seemed not to heed those around him . 
Why the devil should I see the man , Clark ? '' he was saying . 
The Colonel did not answer until they had stopped in front of us . 
Major Colfax , '' said he , this is Sergeant Tom McChesney , one of the best friends I have in Kentucky . 
I think a vast deal of Tom , Major . 
He was one of the few that never failed me in the Illinois campaign . 
He is as honest as the day you will find him plain spoken if he speaks at all , and I have great hopes that you will agree . 
Tom , the Major and I are boyhood friends , and for the sake of that friendship he has consented to this meeting . 
'' I fear that your kind efforts will be useless , Colonel , '' Major Colfax put in , rather tartly . 
Mr. McChesney not only ignores my rights , but was near to hanging my agent . 
'' What ? '' says Colonel Clark . 
However helpless he might be in a court , he could be counted on to stand up stanchly in a personal argument . 
His retorts would certainly not be brilliant , but they surely would be dogged . 
Major Colfax had begun wrong . 
I reckon ye've got no rights that I know on , '' said Tom . 
I cleart the land and settled it , and I have a better right to it nor any man . 
And I've got a grant fer it . 
'' A Henderson grant ! '' cried the Major 'tis so much worthless paper . 
'' I reckon it's good enough fer me , '' answered Tom . 
It come from those who blazed their way out here and druv the redskins off . 
I don't know nothin' about this newfangled law , but 'tis a queer thing to my thinkin' if them that fit fer a place ain't got the fust right to it . 
'' Major Colfax turned to Colonel Clark with marked impatience . 
I told you it would be useless , Clark , '' said he . 
I care not a fig for a few paltry acres , and as God hears me I'm a reasonable man . 
But I swear by the evangels I'll let no squatter have the better of me . 
I did not serve Virginia for gold or land , but I lost my fortune in that service , and before I know it these backwoodsmen will have every acre of my grant . 
I sent an agent to Kentucky to deal politely and reasonably with these gentry . 
What did they do to him ? Some of them threw him out neck and crop . 
'' This remark brought me near to an untimely laugh at the remembrance of Mr. Potts , and this though I was far too sober over the outcome of the conference . 
Colonel Clark seized hold of a chair and pushed it under Major Colfax . 
Sit down , gentlemen , we are not so far apart , '' said the Colonel , coolly . 
The slovenly negro lad passing at that time , he caught him by the sleeve . 
Here , boy , a bowl of toddy , quick . 
And mind you brew it strong . 
Now , Tom , '' said he , what is this fine tale about a hanging ? '' 'Twan't nothin' , '' said Tom . 
You tell me you didn't try to hang Mr. Potts ! '' cried Major Colfax . 
I tell you nothin' , '' said Tom , and his jaw was set more stubbornly than ever . 
Major Colfax glanced at Colonel Clark . 
You see ! '' he said a little triumphantly . 
I could hold my tongue no longer . 
Major Colfax is unjust , sir , '' I cried . 
'Twas Tom saved the man from hanging . 
'' Eh ? '' says Colonel Clark , turning to me sharply . 
So you had a hand in this , Davy . 
I might have guessed as much . 
'' Who the devil is this ? '' says Mr. Colfax . 
A sort of ward of mine , '' answers the Colonel . 
Drummer boy , financier , strategist , in my Illinois campaign . 
Allow me to present to you , Major , Mr. David Ritchie . 
When my men objected to marching through ice skimmed water up to their necks , Mr. Ritchie showed them how . 
'' God bless my soul ! '' exclaimed the Major , staring at me from under his black eyebrows , he was but a child . 
'' With an old head on his shoulders , '' said the Colonel , and his banter made me flush . 
The negro boy arriving with the toddy , Colonel Clark served out three generous gourdfuls , a smaller one for me . 
Your health , my friends , and I drink to a peaceful settlement . 
'' You may drink to the devil if you like , '' says Major Colfax , glaring at Tom . 
Come , Davy , '' said Colonel Clark , when he had taken half the gourd , let's have the tale . 
I'll warrant you're behind this . 
'' I flushed again , and began by stammering . 
For I had a great fear that Major Colfax's temper would fly into bits when he heard it . 
Well , sir , '' said I , I was grinding corn at the mill when the man came . 
I thought him a smooth mannered person , and he did not give his business . 
He was just for wheedling me . 
And was this McChesney's mill ? said he . 
Ay , said I. Thomas McChesney ? Ay , said I. Then he was all for praise of Thomas McChesney . 
Where is he ? said he . 
He is at the far pasture , said I , and may be looked for any moment . 
Whereupon he sits down and tries to worm out of me the business of the mill , the yield of the land . 
After that he begins to talk about the great people he knows , Sevier and Shelby and Robertson and Boone and the like . 
Ay , and his intimates , the Randolphs and the Popes and the Colfaxes in Virginia . 
'Twas then I asked him if he knew Colonel Campbell of Abingdon . 
'' And what deviltry was that ? '' demanded the Colonel , as he dipped himself more of the toddy . 
I'll come to it , sir . 
Yes , Colonel Campbell was his intimate , and ranted if he did not tarry a week with him at Abingdon on his journeys . 
After that he follows me to the cabin , and sees Polly Ann and Tom and the children on the floor poking a 'possum . 
Ah , says he , in his softest voice , a pleasant family scene . 
And this is Mr. McChesney ? I'm your man , says Tom . 
Then he praised the mill site and the land all over again . 
'Tis good enough for a farmer , says Tom . 
Who holds under Henderson's grant , I cried . 
'Twas that you wished to say an hour ago , and I saw I had caught him fair . 
'' By the eternal ! '' cried Colonel Clark , bringing down his fist upon the table . 
And what then ? '' I glanced at Major Colfax , but for the life of me I could make nothing of his look . 
And what did your man say ? '' said Colonel Clark . 
He called on the devil to bite me , sir , '' I answered . 
The Colonel put down his gourd and began to laugh . 
The Major was looking at me fixedly . 
And what then ? '' said the Colonel . 
It was then Polly Ann called him a thief to take away the land Tom had fought for and paid for and tilled . 
The man was all politeness once more , said that the matter was unfortunate , and that a new and good title might be had for a few skins . 
'' He said that ? '' interrupted Major Colfax , half rising in his chair . 
He was a damned scoundrel . 
'' So I thought , sir , '' I answered . 
The devil you did ! '' said the Major . 
Tut , Colfax , '' said the Colonel , pulling him by the sleeve of his greatcoat , sit down and let the lad finish . 
Major Colfax leaped up in his chair . 
Great Jehovah ! '' he shouted , you described the wrong man . 
'' Colonel Clark roared with laughter , thereby spilling some of his toddy . 
I'll warrant he did so , '' he cried and I'll warrant your agent went white as birch bark . 
'' There's not a great deal more , sir , '' I answered , looking apprehensively at Major Colfax , who still stood . 
The man vowed I lied , but Tom laid hold of him and was for hurrying him off to Harrodstown at once . 
'' Which would ill have suited your purpose , '' put in the Colonel . 
And what did you do with him ? '' We put him in a loft , sir , and then I told Tom that he was not Campbell's thief at all . 
But I had a craving to scare the man out of Kentucky . 
Tom told them the rascal had escaped , but they must needs come in and have jigs and toddies until midnight . 
He rode away into the night , and that was the last we heard of him . 
Tom was not to blame , sir . 
'' Colonel Clark was speechless . 
And when for the moment he would conquer his mirth , a glance at Major Colfax would set him off again in laughter . 
I thought my Colonel more human than of old . 
How now , Colfax ? '' he cried , giving a poke to the Major's ribs you hold the sequel to this farce . 
'' The Major's face was purple , with what emotion I could not say . 
Suddenly he swung full at me . 
Do you mean to tell me that you were the general of this hoax you ? '' he demanded in a strange voice . 
The thing seemed an injustice to me , sir , '' I replied in self defence , and the man a rascal . 
'' A rascal ! '' cried the Major , a knave , a poltroon , a simpleton ! And he came to me with no tale of having been outwitted by a stripling . 
The Major's eye rested at length upon Tom , and gradually he grew calm . 
McChesney , '' said he , we'll have no bickerings in court among soldiers . 
The land is yours , and to morrow my attorney shall give you a deed of it . 
'' The stubbornness vanished from Tom's face , and there came instead a dazed expression as he thrust a great , hard hand into the Major's . 
'Twan't the land , sir , '' he stammered these varmints of settlers is gittin' thick as flies in July . 
I reckon I'm obleeged to ye , Major . 
'' There , there , '' said the Major , I thank the Lord I came to Kentucky to see for myself . 
I have plenty more , and little else . 
'' He turned quizzically to Colonel Clark , revealing a line of strong , white teeth . 
Suppose we drink a health to your drummer boy , '' said he , lifting up his gourd . 
Tom looked on with a grin , while little Tom and Peggy reached out their hands in delight , their mother vigorously blocking their intentions . 
Ye've earned it yerself , '' said Polly Ann , forestalling my protest 'tis what ye got by the mill , and I've laid it by bit by bit for yer eddication . 
'' And what do you get ? '' I cried , striving by feigned anger to keep the tears back from my eyes . 
Have you no family to support ? '' Faith , '' she answered , we have the mill that ye gave us , and the farm , and Tom's rifle . 
I reckon we'll fare better than ye think , tho' we'll miss ye sore about the place . 
'' I picked out two sovereigns from the heap , dropped them in the bag , and thrust it into my hunting shirt . 
There , '' said I , my voice having no great steadiness , not a penny more . 
I'll keep the bag for your sake , Polly Ann , and I'll take the mare for Tom's . 
And now with a sudden movement she burst into tears and flung her arms about my neck . 
Oh , Davy , 'tis no time to be stubborn , '' she sobbed , and eddication is a costly thing . 
Ever sence I found ye on the trace , years ago , I've thought of ye one day as a great man . 
And when ye come back to us so big and l'arned , I'd wish to be saying with pride that I helped ye . 
'' And who else , Polly Ann ? '' I faltered , my heart racked with the parting . 
You found me a homeless waif , and you gave me a home and a father and mother . 
'' Davy , ye'll not forget us when ye're great , I know ye'll not . 
'' She stood back and smiled at me through her tears . 
The light of heaven was in that smile , and I have dreamed of it even since age has crept upon me . 
Truly , God sets his own mark on the pure in heart , on the unselfish . 
I leaped on the mare , and with blinded eyes rode down the familiar trail , past the mill , to Harrodsburg . 
There Mr. Neville Colfax was waiting to take me across the mountains . 
There is a story in every man's life , like the kernel in the shell of a hickory nut . 
I am ill acquainted with the arts of a biographer , but I seek to give in these pages little of the shell and the whole of the kernel of mine . 
'Twould be unwise and tiresome to recount the journey over the bare mountains with my new friend and benefactor . 
He had a will like flint , and under it a soft heart . 
Cross his moods , and he hated you . 
I never thought to cross them , therefore he called me Davy , and his friendliness grew with our journey . 
His anger turned against rocks and rivers , landlords and emigrants , but never against me . 
And for this I was silently thankful . 
Major Colfax had made Tom and me sup with himself and Colonel Clark at the inn in Danville . 
And so pleased had the Major professed himself with my story of having outwitted his agent , that he must needs have more of my adventures . 
Colonel Clark gave him some , and Tom , his tongue loosed by the toddy , others . 
And the Colonel added to the debt I owed him by suggesting that Major Colfax take me to Virginia and recommend me to a lawyer there . 
Nay , '' cried the Major , I will do more . 
I like the lad , for he is modest despite the way you have paraded him . 
I have an uncle in Richmond , Judge Wentworth , to whom I will take him in person . 
And when the Judge has done with him , if he is not flayed and tattooed with Blackstone , you may flay and tattoo me . 
'' Thus did I break through my environment . 
And it was settled that I should meet the Major in seven days at Harrodstown . 
Once in the journey did the Major make mention of a subject which had troubled me . 
Davy , '' said he , Clark has changed . 
He is not the same man he was when I saw him in Williamsburg demanding supplies for his campaign . 
'' Virginia has used him shamefully , sir , '' I answered , and suddenly there came flooding to my mind things I had heard the Colonel say in the campaign . 
Commonwealths have short memories , '' said the Major , they will accept any sacrifice with a smile . 
Shakespeare , I believe , speaks of royal ingratitude he knew not commonwealths . 
Clark was close lipped once , not given to levity and to toddy . 
There , there , he is my friend as well as yours , and I will prove it by pushing his cause in Virginia . 
Is yours Scotch anger ? Then the devil fend me from it . 
A monarch would have given him fifty thousand acres on the Wabash , a palace , and a sufficient annuity . 
Virginia has given him a sword , eight thousand wild acres to be sure , repudiated the debts of his army , and left him to starve . 
It was called Neville's Grange , the Major's grandfather having so named it when he came out from England some sixty years before . 
It was a huge , rambling , draughty house of wood , mortgaged , so the Major cheerfully informed me , thanks to the patriotism of the family . 
At Neville's Grange the Major kept a somewhat roisterous bachelor's hall . 
The place was overrun with negroes and dogs , and scarce a night went by that there was not merrymaking in the house with the neighbors . 
My studies began within the hour of my arrival . 
CHAPTER V I MEET AN OLD BEDFELLOW I shall burden no one with the dry chronicles of a law office . 
The acquirement of learning is a slow process in life , and perchance a slower one in the telling . 
I lacked not application during the three years of my stay in Richmond , and to earn my living I worked at such odd tasks as came my way . 
The Judge resembled Major Colfax in but one trait he was choleric . 
But he was painstaking and cautious , and I soon found out that he looked askance upon any one whom his nephew might recommend . 
At the end of this conversation he took my breath away by bidding me come to live with him . 
Like many lawyers of that time , he had a little house in one corner of his grounds for his office . 
It stood under great spreading trees , and there I was wont to sit through many a summer day wrestling with the authorities . 
In the evenings we would have political arguments , for the Confederacy was in a seething state between the Federalists and the Republicans over the new Constitution , now ratified . 
Between the Federalists and the Jacobins , I would better say , for the virulence of the French Revolution was soon to be reflected among the parties on our side . 
Kentucky , swelled into an unmanageable territory , was come near to rebellion because the government was not strong enough to wrest from Spain the free navigation of the Mississippi . 
And yet I yearned to go back , and looked forward eagerly to the time when I should have stored enough in my head to gain admission to the bar . 
I was therefore greatly embarrassed , when my examinations came , by an offer from Judge Wentworth to stay in Richmond and help him with his practice . 
It was an offer not to be lightly set aside , and yet I had made up my mind . 
He flew into a passion because of my desire to return to a wild country of outlaws and vagabonds . 
Why , damme , '' he cried , Kentucky and this pretty State of Franklin which desired to chip off from North Carolina are traitorous places . 
Disloyal to Congress ! Intriguing with a Spanish minister and the Spanish governor of Louisiana to secede from their own people and join the King of Spain . 
Bah ! '' he exclaimed , if our new Federal Constitution is adopted I would hang Jack Sevier of Franklin and your Kentuckian Wilkinson to the highest trees west of the mountains . 
It was on a Sunday , and he was standing by the lilac bushes on the lawn in front of his square brick house . 
David , '' said he , more calmly , I trust I have taught you something besides the law . 
I trust I have taught you that a strong Federal government alone will be the salvation of our country . 
'' You cannot blame Kentucky greatly , sir , '' said I , feeling that I must stand up for my friends . 
The Federal government has done little enough for its people , and treated them to a deal of neglect . 
They won that western country for themselves with no Federal nor Virginia or North Carolina troops to help them . 
No man east of the mountains knows what that fight has been . 
No man east of the mountains knows the horror of that Indian warfare . 
This government gives them no protection now . 
Nay , Congress cannot even procure for them an outlet for their commerce . 
They must trade or perish . 
Spain closes the Mississippi , arrests our merchants , seizes their goods , and often throws them into prison . 
No wonder they scorn the Congress as weak and impotent . 
'' The Judge stared at me aghast . 
Don't misunderstand me , sir , '' said I. You have given me books to read , and have taught me what may be the destiny of our nation on this continent . 
'' He looked at me speechless , and turned and walked into the house . 
I thought I had sinned past forgiveness , and I was beyond description uncomfortable , for he had been like a parent to me . 
But the next morning , at half after seven , he walked into the little office and laid down some gold pieces on my table . 
Gold was very scarce in those days . 
They are for your journey , David , '' said he . 
My only comfort in your going back is that you may grow up to put some temperance into their wild heads . 
I have a commission for you at Jonesboro , in what was once the unspeakable State of Franklin . 
You can stop there on your way to Kentucky . 
'' He drew from his pocket a great bulky letter , addressed to Thomas Wright , Esquire , Barrister at law in Jonesboro , North Carolina . 
'' For the good gentleman could not bring himself to write Franklin . 
It was late in September of the year when I set out on my homeward way for Kentucky was home to me . 
I was going back to Polly Ann and Tom , and visions of that home coming rose before my eyes as I rode . 
In a packet in my saddle bags were some dozen letters which Mr. Wrenn , the schoolmaster at Harrodstown , had writ at Polly Ann's bidding . 
I have the letters yet . 
For Mr. Wrenn was plainly an artist , and had set down on the paper the words just as they had flowed from her heart . 
Ay , and there was news in the letters , though not surprising news among those pioneer families whom God blessed so abundantly . 
had risen above the necessities of a bark cradle , two more had succeeded him , a brother and a sister . 
I spurred my horse onward , and thought impatiently of the weary leagues between my family and me . 
I have often pictured myself on that journey . 
I was twenty one years of age , though one would have called me older . 
I wore a suit of gray homespun , and in my saddle bags I carried four precious law books , the stock in trade which my generous patron had given me . 
But as I mounted the slopes of the mountains my spirits rose too at the prospect of the life before me . 
The woods were all aflame with color , with wine and amber and gold , and the hills wore the misty mantle of shadowy blue so dear to my youthful memory . 
I slept in some of these lean tos , with my fire going brightly , indifferent to the howl of wolves in chase or the scream of a panther pouncing on its prey . 
For I was born of the wilderness . 
It had no terrors for me , nor did I ever feel alone . 
For he had made a great noise in the world since then , and the wrath of such men as my late patron was heavy upon him . 
the free State of Franklin . 
There were certain conservative and unimaginative souls in this mountain principality who for various reasons held their old allegiance to the State of North Carolina . 
One Colonel Tipton led these loyalist forces , and armed partisans of either side had for some years ridden up and down the length of the land , burning and pillaging and slaying . 
We in Virginia had heard of two sets of courts in Franklin , of two sets of legislators . 
In the streets currents of excited men flowed and backed and eddied , backwoodsmen and farmers in the familiar hunting shirts of hide or homespun , and lawyers in dress less rude . 
The log meeting house was deserted , but the court house was the centre of such a swirling crowd as I had often seen at Harrodstown . 
I had seen rough and tumble fights in Kentucky , and if I have forborne to speak of them it is because there always has been within me a loathing for them . 
And so I sat quietly in the common room until the landlord came . 
I asked him if he could direct me to Mr. Wright's house , as I had a letter for that gentleman . 
His answer was to grin at me incredulously . 
I reckoned you wah'nt from these parts , '' said he . 
'' What is the excitement ? '' I demanded . 
Nollichucky Jack's been heah , in Jonesboro , young man , '' said he . 
What , '' I exclaimed , Colonel Sevier ? '' Ay , Sevier , '' he repeated . 
With Martin and Tipton and all the Caroliny men right heah , having a council of mility officers in the court house , in rides Jack with his frontier boys like a whirlwind . 
He bean't afeard of 'em , and a bench warrant out ag'in him for high treason . 
Never seed sech a recklessness . 
Never had sech a jamboree sence I kept the tavern . 
They was in this here room most of the day , and they was five fights before they set down to dinner . 
'' And Colonel Tipton ? '' I said . 
Oh , Tipton , '' said he , he hain't afeard neither , but he hain't got men enough . 
'' And where is Sevier now ? '' I demanded . 
How long hev you ben in town ? '' was his answer . 
Wal , '' said he , shifting his tobacco from one sallow cheek to the other , I reckon he and his boys rud out just afore you come in . 
Mark me , '' he added , when I tell ye there'll be trouble yet . 
Tipton and Martin and the Caroliny folks is burnin' mad with Chucky Jack for the murder of Corn Tassel and other peaceful chiefs . 
But Jack hez a wild lot with him , some of the Nollichucky Cave traders , and there's one young lad that looks like he was a gentleman once . 
I reckon Jack himself wouldn't like to get into a fight with him . 
Great Goliah , '' he exclaimed , running to the door , ef thar ain't a goin' to be another fight ! Never seed sech a day in Jonesboro . 
'' I likewise ran to the door , and this fight interested me . 
There was a great , black bearded mountaineer farmer desperado in the midst of a circle , pouring out a torrent of abuse at a tall young man . 
That thar's Hump Gibson , '' said the landlord , genially pointing out the black bearded ruffian , and the young lawyer feller hez git a jedgment ag'in him . 
He's got spunk , but I reckon Hump'll t'ar the innards out'n him ef he stands thar a great while . 
'' Ye'll git jedgment ag'in me , ye Caroliny splinter , will ye ? '' yelled Mr. Gibson , with an oath . 
I'll pay Bill Wilder the skins when I git ready , and all the pinhook lawyers in Washington County won't budge me a mite . 
He was a strange young man , with the rare marked look that would compel even a poor memory to pick him out again . 
For example , he was very tall and very slim , with red hair blown every which way over a high and towering forehead that seemed as long as the face under it . 
The face , too , was long , and all freckled by the weather . 
The blue eyes held me in wonder , and these blazed with such prodigious wrath that , if a look could have killed , Hump Gibson would have been stricken on the spot . 
Mr. Gibson was , however , very much alive . 
Skin out o' here afore I kill ye , '' he shouted , and he charged at the slim young man like a buffalo , while the crowd held its breath . 
I , who had looked upon cruel sights in my day , was turning away with a kind of sickening when I saw the slim young man dodge the rush . 
It had all happened in a twinkling , and there was a moment's lull while the minds of the onlookers needed readjustment , and then they gave vent to ecstasies of delight . 
Great Goliah ! '' cried the landlord , breathlessly , he shet him up jest like a jack knife . 
'' Awe struck , I looked at the tall young man , and he was the very essence of wrath . 
Unmindful of the plaudits , he stood brandishing the fence rail over the great , writhing figure on the ground . 
I recall that this fact gave a twinge to something in my memory . 
Come on , Hump Gibson , '' he cried , come on ! '' at which the crowd went wild with pure joy . 
Thought ye was goin' to eat 'im up , Hump ? '' said a friend . 
Ye ain't hed yer meal yet , Hump , '' reminded another . 
Mr. Hump Gibson arose slowly out of the dust , yet he did not stand straight . 
Come on , come on ! '' cried the young lawyer fellow , and he thrust the point of the rail within a foot of Mr. Gibson's stomach . 
Come on , Hump ! '' howled the crowd , but Mr. Gibson stood irresolute . 
He lacked the supreme test of courage which was demanded on this occasion . 
Then he turned and walked away very slowly , as though his pace might mitigate in some degree the shame of his retreat . 
The young man flung away the fence rail , and , thrusting aside the overzealous among his admirers , he strode past me into the tavern , his anger still hot . 
Hooray fer Jackson ! '' they shouted . 
Hooray fer Andy Jackson ! '' Andy Jackson ! Then I knew . 
Then I remembered a slim , wild , sandy haired boy digging his toes in the red mud long ago at the Waxhaws Settlement . 
And I recalled with a smile my own fierce struggle at the schoolhouse with the same boy , and how his slobbering had been my salvation . 
I turned and went in after him with the landlord , who was rubbing his hands with glee . 
I reckon Hump won't come crowin' round heah any more co't days , Mr. Jackson , '' said our host . 
But Mr. Jackson swept the room with his eyes and then glared at the landlord so that he gave back . 
Where's my man ? '' he demanded . 
Your man , Mr. Jackson ? '' stammered the host . 
Great Jehovah ! '' cried Mr. Jackson , I believe he's afraid to race . 
He had a horse that could show heels to my Nancy , did he ? And he's gone , you say ? '' A light seemed to dawn on the landlord's countenance . 
God bless ye , Mr. Jackson ! '' he cried , ye don't mean that young daredevil that was with Sevier ? '' With Sevier ? '' says Jackson . 
Ay , '' says the landlord he's been a fightin with Sevier all summer , and I reckon he ain't afeard of nothin' any more than you . 
Wait his name was Temple Nick Temple , they called him . 
'' Nick Temple ! '' I cried , starting forward . 
Where's he gone ? '' said Mr. Jackson . 
He was going to bet me a six forty he has at Nashboro that his horse could beat mine on the Greasy Cove track . 
Where's he gone ? '' Gone ! '' said the landlord , apologetically , Nollichucky Jack and his boys left town an hour ago . 
'' Is he a man of honor or isn't he ? '' said Mr. Jackson , fiercely . 
Lord , sir , I only seen him once , but I'd stake my oath on it . 
Do you mean to say Mr. Temple has been here Nicholas Temple ? '' I said . 
The bewildered landlord turned towards me helplessly . 
Who the devil are you , sir ? '' cried Mr. Jackson . 
Tell me what this Mr. Temple was like , '' said I. The landlord's face lighted up . 
, snapped their fingers at Tipton and his warrant , and rud out ag'in . 
My God , but that was like Nollichucky Jack . 
Say , stranger , when your Mr. Temple smiled '' He is the man ! '' I cried tell me where to find him . 
'' Mr. Jackson , who had been divided between astonishment and impatience and anger , burst out again . 
Gallop into him , Andy ! '' cried one . 
Don't let him git near no fences , stranger , '' said another . 
Mr. Jackson turned on this man with such truculence that he edged away to the rear of the room . 
Step out , sir , '' said Mr. Jackson , starting for the door before I could reply . 
I followed perforce , not without misgivings , the crowd pushing eagerly after . 
Before we reached the dusty street Jackson began pulling off his coat . 
In a trice the shouting onlookers had made a ring , and we stood facing each other , he in his shirt sleeves . 
We'll fight fair , '' said he , his lips wetting . 
Very good , '' said I , if you are still accustomed to this hasty manner . 
You have not asked my name , my standing , nor my reasons for wanting Mr. Temple . 
'' I know not whether it was what I said that made him stare , or how I said it . 
Pistols , if you like , '' said he . 
No , '' said I I am in a hurry to find Mr. Temple . 
I fought you this way once , and it's quicker . 
'' You fought me this way once ? '' he repeated . 
The noise of the crowd was hushed , and they drew nearer to hear . 
And I am in a hurry . 
If you will step back into the tavern , I will explain to you my reasons for wishing to get to Mr. Temple . 
'' Mr. Jackson stared at me the more . 
By the eternal , '' said he , you are a cool man . 
Give me my coat , '' he shouted to the bystanders , and they helped him on with it . 
Now , '' said he , as they made to follow him , keep back . 
I would talk to this gentleman . 
By the heavens , '' he cried , when he had gained the room , I believe you are not afraid of me . 
I saw it in your eyes . 
Why , we slept together . 
'' And you stumped your toe getting into bed and swore , '' said I. At that he laughed so heartily that the landlord came running across the room . 
And we fought together at the Old Fields School . 
Are you that boy ? '' and he scanned me again . 
By God , I believe you are . 
'' Suddenly his face clouded once more . 
But what about Temple ? '' said he . 
Ah , '' I answered , I come to that quickly . 
Mr. Temple is my cousin . 
After I left your uncle's house my father took me to Charlestown . 
'' Is he a Charlestown Temple ? '' demanded Mr. Jackson . 
For I spent some time gambling and horse racing with the gentry there , and I know many of them . 
, and I ran up a bill in Charlestown that would have filled a folio volume . 
Faith , all I had left me was the clothes on my back and a good horse . 
I made up my mind one night that if I could pay my debts and get out of Charlestown I would go into the back country and study law and sober down . 
There was a Mr. Braiden in the ordinary who staked me two hundred dollars at rattle and snap against my horse . 
Gad , sir , that was providence . 
I left Charlestown with honor , I studied law at Salisbury in North Carolina , and I have come here to practise it . 
'' You seem to have the talent , '' said I , smiling at the remembrance of the Hump Gibson incident . 
That is my history in a nutshell , '' said Mr. Jackson . 
And now , '' he added , since you are Mr. Temple's cousin and friend and an old acquaintance of mine to boot , I will tell you where I think he is . 
'' Where is that ? '' I asked eagerly . 
I'll stake a cowbell that Sevier will stop at the Widow Brown's , '' he replied . 
I'll put you on the road . 
But mind you , you are to tell Mr. Temple that he is to come back here and race me at Greasy Cove . 
'' I'll warrant him to come , '' said I. Whereupon we left the inn together , more amicably than before . 
He was as good as his word , rode out with me some distance on the road , and reminded me at the last that Nick was to race him . 
CHAPTER VI THE WIDOW BROWN'S It was not to my credit that I should have lost the trail , after Mr. Jackson put me straight . 
But the night was dark , the country unknown to me , and heavily wooded and mountainous . 
In addition to these things my mind ran like fire . 
Well I remembered him , broad shouldered , handsome , gay , a courtier in buckskin . 
Small wonder he was idolized by the Watauga settlers , that he had been their leader in the struggle of Franklin for liberty . 
And small wonder that Nick Temple should be in his following . 
Nick ! My mind was in a torment concerning him . 
There was a dark cabin ahead , indistinct in the starlight , and there I knocked until a gruff voice answered me and a tousled man came to the door . 
Yes , I had missed the trail . 
He shook his head when I asked for the Widow Brown's , and bade me share his bed for the night . 
No , I would go on , I was used to the backwoods . 
Thereupon he thawed a little , kicked the dogs , and pointed to where the mountain dipped against the star studded sky . 
There was a trail there which led direct to the Widow Brown's , if I could follow it . 
It doubled around the spurs , forded stony brooks in diagonals , and often in the darkness of the mountain forest I had to feel for the blazes on the trees . 
There was no making time . 
Suddenly there was no crown cover over my head . 
I had gained the road once more , and I followed it hopefully , avoiding the stumps and the deep wagon ruts where the ground was spongy . 
The morning light revealed a milky mist through which the trees showed like phantoms . 
Then there came stains upon the mist of royal purple , of scarlet , of yellow like a mandarin's robe , peeps of deep blue fading into azure as the mist lifted . 
My horse stopped of his own will at the edge of the clearing . 
I listened , startled , and made sure of the distant ring of many hoofs . 
And yet I stayed there , irresolute . 
Other dogs , hitherto unseen , took up the cry , and turning in my saddle I saw a body of men riding hard at me through the alley in the forest . 
At sight of me he reined up so violently that his horse went back on his haunches , and the men behind were near overriding him . 
He primed the pan , and , seeing me immovable , set his horse forward at an amble , his pistol at the cock . 
Who in hell are you ? '' he cried . 
A traveller from Virginia , '' I answered . 
And what are you doing here ? '' he demanded , with another oath . 
I have just this moment come here , '' said I , as calmly as I might . 
I lost the trail in the darkness . 
'' He glared at me , purpling , perplexed . 
Is Sevier there ? '' said he , pointing at the house . 
I don't know , '' said I. Tipton turned to his men , who were listening . 
Surround the house , '' he cried , and watch this fellow . 
'' I rode on perforce towards the house with Tipton and three others , while his men scattered over the corn field and cursed the dogs . 
And then we saw in the open door the figure of a woman shading her eyes with her hand . 
We pulled up , five of us , before the porch in front of her . 
Good morning , Mrs. Brown , '' said Tipton , gruffly . 
Good morning , Colonel , '' answered the widow . 
Tipton leaped from his horse , flung the bridle to a companion , and put his foot on the edge of the porch to mount . 
Then a strange thing happened . 
The lady turned deftly , seized a chair from within , and pulled it across the threshold . 
She sat herself down firmly , an expression on her face which hinted that the late lamented Mr. Brown had been a dominated man . 
Colonel Tipton stopped , staggering from the very impetus of his charge , and gazed at her blankly . 
I have come for Colonel Sevier , '' he blurted . 
And then , his anger rising , I will have no trifling , ma'am . 
He is in this house . 
'' La ! you don't tell me , '' answered the widow , in a tone that was wholly conversational . 
He is in this house , '' shouted the Colonel . 
I reckon you've guessed wrong , Colonel , '' said the widow . 
There was an awkward pause until Tipton heard a titter behind him . 
I have a warrant against the scoundrel for high treason , '' he cried , and , by God , I will search the house and serve it . 
'' Still the widow sat tight . 
The Rock of Ages was neither more movable nor calmer than she . 
Surely , Colonel , you would not invade the house of an unprotected female . 
'' The Colonel , evidently with a great effort , throttled his wrath for the moment . 
His new tone was apologetic but firm . 
I regret to have to do so , ma'am , '' said he , but both sexes are equal before the law . 
'' The law ! '' repeated the widow , seemingly tickled at the word . 
She smiled indulgently at the Colonel . 
What a pity , Mr. Tipton , that the law compels you to arrest such a good friend of yours as Colonel Sevier . 
He saw me with my hand over my mouth . 
You warned him , damn you ! '' he shouted , and turning again leaped to the porch and tried to squeeze past the widow into the house . 
How dare you , sir ? '' she shrieked , giving him a vigorous push backwards . 
The four of us , his three men and myself , laughed outright . 
Tipton's rage leaped its bounds . 
He returned to the attack again and again , and yet at the crucial moment his courage would fail him and he would let the widow thrust him back . 
Suddenly I became aware that there were two new spectators of this comedy . 
I started and looked again , and was near to crying out at sight of one of them . 
The others did cry out , but Tipton paid no heed . 
Yes , humorous even now , for he stood , smiling at this comedy played by his enemy , unmindful of his peril . 
The widow saw him before Tipton did , so intent was he on the struggle . 
Enough ! '' she cried , enough , John Tipton ! '' Tipton drew back involuntarily , and a smile broadened on the widow's face . 
Shame on you for doubting a lady's word ! Allow me to present to you Colonel Sevier . 
'' Tipton turned , stared as a man might who sees a ghost , and broke into such profanity as I have seldom heard . 
I have surrendered to Colonel Love , '' he said . 
Tipton snatched from his belt the pistol which he might have used on me , and there flashed through my head the thought that some powder might yet be held in its pan . 
We cried out , all of us , his men , the widow , and myself , all save Sevier , who stood quietly , smiling . 
Well I knew him ! And oddly enough at that time Riddle's words of long ago came to me , God help the woman you love or the man you fight . 
'' How shall I describe him ? He was thin even to seeming frailness , yet it was the frailness of the race horse . 
The golden hair , sun tanned , awry across his forehead , the face the same thin and finely cut face of the boy . 
The gray eyes held an anger that did not blaze it was far more dangerous than that . 
Colonel John Tipton looked , and as I live he recoiled . 
If you touch him , I'll kill you , '' said Mr. Temple . 
Nor did he say it angrily . 
I marked for the first time that he held a pistol in his slim fingers . 
What he said we didn't hear . 
The astonishing thing was that neither of them for the moment paid any attention to the infuriated man beside them . 
I saw Nick's expression change . 
He smiled , the smile the landlord had described , the smile that made men and women willing to die for him . 
After that Colonel Sevier stooped down and picked up the pistol from the floor of the porch and handed it with a bow to Tipton , butt first . 
Tipton took it , seemingly without knowing why , and at that instant a negro boy came around the house , leading a horse . 
Sevier mounted it without a protest from any one . 
I am ready to go with you , gentlemen , '' he said . 
Nick stood beside the widow , staring after them until they had disappeared . 
My horse , boy ! '' he shouted to the gaping negro , who vanished on the errand . 
What will you do , Mr. Temple ? '' asked the widow . 
Rescue him , ma'am , '' cried Nick , beginning to pace up and down . 
Cozby and Evans are there , and before night we shall have made Jonesboro too hot to hold Tipton and his cutthroats . 
'' La , Mr. Temple , '' said the widow , with unfeigned admiration , I never saw the like of you . 
But I know John Tipton , and he'll have Colonel Sevier started for North Carolina before our boys can get to Jonesboro . 
'' Then we'll follow , '' says Nick , beginning to pace again . 
Suddenly , at a cry from the widow , he stopped and stared at me , a light in his eye like a point of steel . 
His hand slipped to his waist . 
'' God forbid that I ever do , '' I answered fervently . 
Mr. Temple , I am here to find you , and to save time I will ride with you . 
He raised his eyes to hers . 
All that I saw of Mr. Nicholas Temple on that ride to Turner's was his back , and presently I lost sight of that . 
It was late in the afternoon before I reached the town , the town set down among the hills like a caldron boiling over with the wrath of Franklin . 
Around it a thousand furious men were packed . 
I heard cheering , hoarse and fierce cries , threats and imprecations , and I knew that they were listening to oratory . 
I was suddenly shot around the corner of a house , saw the orator himself , and gasped . 
What has North Carolina done for Franklin ? '' he cried . 
Protected her ? No. Repudiated her ? Yes . 
You gave her to the Confederacy for a war debt , and the Confederacy flung her back . 
You shook yourselves free from Carolina's tyranny , and traitors betrayed you again . 
And now they have betrayed your leader . 
Will you rescue him ? '' he cried , and the roar rose again . 
Will you avenge him ? By to morrow we shall have two thousand here . 
Invade North Carolina , humble her , bring her to her knees , and avenge John Sevier ! '' Pandemonium reigned . 
Hats were flung in the air , rifles fired , shouts and curses rose and blended into one terrifying note . 
Gradually , in the midst of this mad uproar , the crowd became aware that another man was standing upon the stump from which Nicholas Temple had leaped . 
Cozby ! '' some one yelled , Cozby ! '' The cry was taken up . 
Huzzay for Cozby ! He'll lead us into Caroliny . 
'' He was the huge , swarthy man I had seen riding hard with Nick that morning . 
A sculptor might have chosen his face and frame for a type of the iron handed leader of pioneers . 
Will was supreme in the great features , inflexible , indomitable will . 
His hunting shirt was open across his great chest , his black hair fell to his shoulders , and he stood with a compelling hand raised for silence . 
And when he spoke , slowly , resonantly , men fell back before his words . 
I admire Mr. Temple's courage , and above all his loyalty to our beloved General , '' said Major Cozby . 
But Mr. Temple is young , and the heated counsels of youth must not prevail . 
My friends , in order to save Jack Sevier we must be moderate . 
'' His voice , strong as it was , was lost . 
To hell with moderation ! '' they shouted . 
Down with North Carolina ! We'll fight her ! '' He got silence again by the magnetic strength he had in him . 
Very good , '' he said , but get your General first . 
If we lead you across the mountains now , his blood will be upon your heads . 
No man is a better friend to Jack Sevier than I. Leave his rescue to me , and I will get him for you . 
'' He paused , and they were stilled perforce . 
I will get him for you , '' he repeated slowly , or North Carolina will pay for the burial of James Cozby . 
'' There was an instant when they might have swung either way . 
How will ye do it ? '' came in a thin , piping voice from somewhere near the stump . 
It may have been this that turned their minds . 
Others took up the question , How will ye do it , Major Cozby ? '' I don't know , '' cried the Major , I don't know . 
And if I did know , I wouldn't tell you . 
What he said was lost in the roar . 
Fighting my way forward , I saw him get down from the stump , put his hand kindly on Nick's shoulder , and lead him into the court house . 
They were followed by a score of others , and the door was shut behind them . 
It was then I bethought myself of the letter to Mr. Wright , and I sought for some one who would listen to my questions as to his whereabouts . 
At length the man himself was pointed out to me , haranguing an excited crowd of partisans in front of his own gate . 
Some twenty minutes must have passed before I could get any word with him . 
He was a vigorous little man , with black eyes like buttons , he wore brown homespun and white stockings , and his hair was clubbed . 
When he had yielded the ground to another orator , I handed him the letter . 
He drew me aside , read it on the spot , and became all hospitality at once . 
The town was full , and though he had several friends staying in his house I should join them . 
And then I sat down , with several other gentlemen , at Mr. Wright's board , where there was much guessing as to Major Cozby's plan . 
No other man west of the mountains could have calmed that crowd after that young daredevil Temple had stirred them up , '' declared Mr. Wright . 
I ventured to say that I had business with Mr. Temple . 
Faith , then , I will invite him here , '' said my host . 
But I warn you , Mr. Ritchie , that he is a trigger set on the hair . 
If he does not fancy you , he may quarrel with you and shoot you . 
And he is in no temper to be trifled with to day . 
'' I am not an easy person to quarrel with , '' I answered . 
To look at you , I shouldn't say that you were , '' said he . 
We are going to the court house , and I will see if I can get a word with the young Hotspur and send him to you . 
'' I waited on the porch as the day waned . 
The tumult of the place had died down , for men were gathering in the houses to discuss and conjecture . 
And presently , sauntering along the street in a careless fashion , his spurs trailing in the dust , came Nicholas Temple . 
He stopped before the house and stared at me with a fine insolence , and I wondered whether I myself had not been too hasty in reclaiming him . 
A greeting died on my lips . 
Well , sir , '' he said , so you are the gentleman who has been dogging me all day . 
'' I dog no one , Mr. Temple , '' I replied bitterly . 
We'll not quibble about words , '' said he . 
Would it be impertinent to ask your business and perhaps your name ? '' Did not Mr. Wright give you my name ? '' I exclaimed . 
He might have mentioned it , I did not hear . 
Is it of such importance ? '' At that I lost my temper entirely . 
It may be , and it may not , '' I retorted . 
Oh , I have never forgiven you , '' the smile that there was no resisting belied his words as he put his face close to mine I never will forgive you . 
I might have known you you've grown , but I vow you're still an old man , Davy , you renegade . 
And where the devil did you run to ? '' Kentucky , '' I said , laughing . 
Oh , you traitor and I trusted you . 
I loved you , Davy . 
Do you remember how I clung to you in my sleep ? And when I woke up , the world was black . 
I followed your trail down the drive and to the cross roads '' It was not ingratitude , Nick , '' I said you were all I had in the world . 
'' And then I faltered , the sadness of that far off time coming over me in a flood , and the remembrance of his generous sorrow for me . 
And how the devil did you track me to the Widow Brown's ? '' he demanded , releasing me . 
A Mr. Jackson had a shrewd notion you were there . 
And by the way , he was in a fine temper because you had skipped a race with him . 
'' That sorrel topped , lantern headed Mr. Jackson ? '' said Nick . 
He'll be killed in one of his fine tempers . 
Damn a man who can't keep his temper . 
I'll race him , of course . 
And where are you bound now , Davy ? '' For Louisville , in Kentucky , at the Falls of the Ohio . 
It is a growing place , and a promising one for a young man in the legal profession to begin life . 
'' When do you leave ? '' said he . 
To morrow morning , Nick , '' said I. You wanted once to go to Kentucky why not come with me ? '' His face clouded . 
I do not budge from this town , '' said he , I do not budge until I hear that Jack Sevier is safe . 
Damn Cozby ! If he had given me my way , we should have been forty miles from here by this . 
Cozby is even now picking five men to go to Morganton and steal Sevier , and he puts me off with a kind word . 
He'll not have me , he says . 
'' He thinks you too hot . 
It needs discretion and an old head , '' said I. Egad , then , I'll commend you to him , '' said Nick . 
Now , '' I said , it's time for you to tell me something of yourself , and how you chanced to come into this country . 
'' 'Twas Darnley's fault , '' said Nick . 
Darnley ! '' I exclaimed he whom you got into the duel with '' I stopped abruptly , with a sharp twinge of remembrance that was like a pain in my side . 
'Twas Nick took up the name . 
'' He spoke quietly , that was the terrifying part of it . 
David , I've looked for that man in Italy and France , I've scoured London for him , and , by God , I'll find him before he dies . 
And when I do find him I swear to you that there will be no such thing as time wasted , or mercy . 
In all my life I had never known such a moment of indecision . 
Should I tell him ? My conscience would give me no definite reply . 
The moment , made for confession as it was , passed . 
They have ruined my life , '' said Nick . 
I curse him , and I curse her . 
'' Hold ! '' I cried she is your mother . 
'' And therefore I curse her the more , '' he said . 
You know what she is , you've tasted of her charity , and you are my father's nephew . 
If you have been without experience , I will tell you what she is . 
A common '' I reached out and put my hand across his mouth . 
Silence ! '' I cried you shall say no such thing . 
And have you not manhood enough to make your own life for yourself ? '' Manhood ! '' he repeated , and laughed . 
It was a laugh that I did not like . 
They made a man of me , my parents . 
My father played false with the Rebels and fled to England for his reward . 
A year after he went I was left alone at Temple Bow to the tender mercies of the niggers . 
Mr. Mason came back and snatched what was left of me . 
I made my way back to Charlestown , and there I learned to gamble , to hold liquor like a gentleman , to run horses and fight like a gentleman . 
We were speaking of Darnley , '' he said . 
Yes , of Darnley , '' I repeated . 
Darnley turned Whig , became a Continental colonel , and got a grant out here in the Cumberland country of three thousand acres . 
And now I own it . 
'' You own it ! '' I exclaimed . 
Rattle and snap , '' said Nick I played him for the land at the ordinary one night , and won it . 
It is out here near a place called Nashboro , where this wild , long faced Mr. Jackson says he is going soon . 
I crossed the mountains to have a look at it , fell in with Nollichucky Jack , and went off with him for a summer campaign . 
There's a man for you , Davy , '' he cried , a man to follow through hell fire . 
If they touch a hair of his head we'll sack the State of North Carolina from Morganton to the sea . 
'' But the land ? '' I asked . 
Oh , a fig for the land , '' answered Nick as soon as Nollichucky Jack is safe I'll follow you into Kentucky . 
'' He slapped me on the knee . 
Egad , Davy , it seems like a fairy tale . 
'' I shall turn up there when Jack Sevier is safe and I have won some more land from Mr. Jackson . 
We'll have a rare old time together , though I have no doubt you can drink me under the table . 
Beware of these sober men . 
Egad , Davy , you need only a woolsack to become a full fledged judge . 
And now tell me how fortune has buffeted you . 
I rode out the Wilderness Trail , fell in with other travellers , was welcomed by certain old familiar faces at Harrodstown , and pressed on . 
I have a vivid recollection of a beloved , vigorous figure swooping out of a cabin door and scattering a brood of children right and left . 
Polly Ann ! '' I said , and she halted , trembling . 
Tom , '' she cried , Tom , it's Davy come back , and Tom himself flew out of the door , ramrod in one hand and rifle in the other . 
I caught the youngster by the collar . 
Polly Ann , '' said I , he's grown to what I was when you picked me up , a foundling . 
'' My heart is still where it was , '' said I. Ay , ay , '' said Tom , I'm sure o' that , Davy . 
For Tom was often at the Falls when he went a scouting into the Illinois country . 
It was , as of old , Polly Ann who ran the mill and was the real bread winner of the family . 
I do not mean to give you an account of my struggles that winter to obtain a foothold in the law . 
The time was a heyday for young barristers , and troubles in those early days grew as plentifully in Kentucky as corn . 
I hired rooms behind Mr. Crede's store , which was famed for the glass windows which had been fetched all the way from Philadelphia . 
He was a man to fill the eye , handsome of face , symmetrical of figure , easy of manner , and he wore a suit of bottle green that became him admirably . 
Come here , Davy , '' he cried across the room , and I came and stood abashed before the hero . 
General , allow me to present to you the drummer boy of Kaskaskia and Vincennes , Mr. David Ritchie . 
'' I hear that you drummed them to victory through a very hell of torture , Mr. Ritchie , '' said the General . 
It is an honor to grasp the hand of one who did such service at such a tender age . 
Mr. Ritchie is not good at speeches , General , '' said he , but I make no doubt he will drink a bumper to your health before we sit down . 
was like a bantam hen trying to cover a nestful of turkey's eggs , and clucking with importance all the time . 
This picture brought on gusts of laughter . 
Colonel Clark stood up , and rapped on the table . 
Gentlemen , '' said he , Louisville has as her guest of honor to night a man of whom Kentucky may well be proud loud cheering . 
Five years ago he favored Lexington by making it his home , and he came to us with the laurel of former achievements still clinging to his brow . 
He fought and suffered for his country , and attained the honorable rank of Major in the Continental line . 
He was chosen by the people of Pennsylvania to represent them in the august body of their legislature , and now he has got new honor in a new field renewed cheering . 
He has come to Kentucky to show her the way to prosperity and glory . 
Kentucky had a grievance loud cries of Yes , yes ! '' . 
Her hogs and cattle had no market , her tobacco and agricultural products of all kinds were rotting because the Spaniards had closed the Mississippi to our traffic . 
Could the Federal government open the river ? shouts of No , no ! '' and hisses . 
Who opened it ? cries of Wilkinson , Wilkinson ! '' . 
He said to the Kentucky planters , Give your tobacco to me , and I will sell it . 
He was a man nearing the middle age , with a lacing of red in his cheeks , a pleasant gray eye , and a singularly quiet manner . 
'' Alas , Colonel Clark's hand was not as steady as of yore , and he spilled the liquor on the table as he raised his glass . 
Gentlemen , a health to our benefactor . 
'' They drank it willingly , and withal so lengthily and noisily that Mr. Wilkinson stood smiling and bowing for full three minutes before he could be heard . 
He was a very paragon of modesty , was the General , and a man whose attitudes and expressions spoke as eloquently as his words . 
None looked at him now but knew before he opened his mouth that he was deprecating such an ovation . 
I am a simple , practical man , who loves Kentucky better than he loves himself . 
This is no virtue , for we all have it . 
We have the misfortune to be governed by a set of worthy gentlemen who know little about Kentucky and her wants , and think less cries of Ay , ay ! '' . 
Kentucky , if she would prosper , must look to her own welfare . 
Let us drink a toast to him To him your gratitude is due , for he sends you word that your tobacco will be received . 
'' In General Wilkinson's barges , '' said Mr. Wharton leaning over and subsiding again at once . 
The General was the first to drink the toast , and he sat down very modestly amidst a thunder of applause . 
The young man on the other side of me , somewhat flushed , leaped to his feet . 
The Federal government takes sides with the Indians against us . 
The Continental officers who fought in the East have half pay for life or five years' full pay . 
And what have you ? '' There was a breathless hush . 
And I remembered a boy who had stood awe struck before this man in the commandant's house at Fort Sackville . 
Ay , and I heard again his words as though he had just spoken them , Promise me that you will not forget me if I am unfortunate . 
'' I did not understand then . 
And now because of a certain blinding of my eyes , I did not see him clearly as he got slowly to his feet . 
He looked around him I dare not say vacantly . 
And then , suddenly , he spoke with a supreme anger and a supreme bitterness . 
Not a shilling has this government given me , he cried . 
Virginia was more grateful from her I have some acres of wild land and a sword . 
A sword , gentlemen , and not new at that . 
Oh , a grateful government we serve , one careful of the honor of her captains . 
One of them is ruined . 
'' A dozen men had sprung clamoring to their feet before he sat down . 
One , more excited than the rest , got the ear of the company . 
Do we lack leaders ? '' he cried . 
We have them here with us to night , in this room . 
Who will stop us ? Not the contemptible enemies in Kentucky who call themselves Federalists . 
Shall we be supine forever ? We have fought once for our liberties , let us fight again . 
Let us make a common cause with our real friends on the far side of the Mississippi . 
'' I rose , sick at heart , but every man was standing . 
And then a strange thing happened . 
Others saw him too , I know not by what exertion of magnetism . 
They looked at him and they held their tongues . 
I fear that we are losing our heads , gentlemen , '' he said and I propose to you the health of the first citizen of Kentucky , Colonel George Rogers Clark . 
I found myself out of the tavern and alone in the cool May night . 
And as I walked slowly down the deserted street , my head in a whirl , a hand was laid on my shoulder . 
I turned , startled , to face Mr. Wharton , the planter . 
I would speak a word with you , Mr. Ritchie , '' he said . 
May I come to your room for a moment ? '' Certainly , sir , '' I answered . 
After that we walked along together in silence , my own mind heavily occupied with what I had seen and heard . 
We came to Mr. Crede's store , went in at the picket gate beside it and down the path to my own door , which I unlocked . 
I felt for the candle on the table , lighted it , and turned in surprise to discover that Mr. Wharton was poking up the fire and pitching on a log of wood . 
He flung off his greatcoat and sat down with his feet to the blaze . 
I sat down beside him and waited , thinking him a sufficiently peculiar man . 
You are not famous , Mr. Ritchie , '' said he , presently . 
No , sir , '' I answered . 
Nor particularly handsome , '' he continued , nor conspicuous in any way . 
'' I agreed to this , perforce . 
You may thank God for it , '' said Mr. Wharton . 
That would be a strange outpouring , sir , '' said I. He looked at me and smiled . 
What think you of this paragon , General Wilkinson ? '' he demanded suddenly . 
I have Federal leanings , sir , '' I answered Egad , '' said he , we'll add caution to your lack of negative accomplishments . 
I have had an eye on you this winter , though you did not know it . 
I have made inquiries about you , and hence I am not here to night entirely through impulse . 
You have not made a fortune at the law , but you have worked hard , steered wide of sensation , kept your mouth shut . 
Is it not so ? '' Astonished , I merely nodded in reply . 
When I first laid eyes on this fine gentleman , General Wilkinson , I too fell a victim to his charms . 
He said to me , Wharton , give me your crop of tobacco and I promise you to sell it in spite of all the royal mandates that go out of Madrid . 
A heavy crop of tobacco was raised in Kentucky that year . 
I helped to raise it , '' added Mr. Wharton , dryly . 
I gave the General my second crop , and he sent it down . 
Mr. Ritchie , I have to this day never received a piastre for my merchandise , nor am I the only planter in this situation . 
Yet General Wilkinson is prosperous . 
'' My astonishment somewhat prevented me from replying to this , too . 
Was it possible that Mr. Wharton meant to sue the General ? I reflected while he paused . 
I remembered how inconspicuous he had named me , and hope died . 
Mr. Wharton did not look at me , but stared into the fire , for he was plainly not a man to rail and rant . 
Mr. Ritchie , you are young , but mark my words , that man Wilkinson will bring Kentucky to ruin if he is not found out . 
The whole district from Crab Orchard to Bear Grass is mad about him . 
Even Clark makes a fool of himself '' Colonel Clark , sir ! '' I cried . 
He put up a hand . 
So you have some hot blood , '' he said . 
I know you love him . 
So do I , or I should not have been there tonight . 
Do I blame his bitterness ? Do I blame anything he does ? The treatment he has had would bring a blush of shame to the cheek of any nation save a republic . 
Republics are wasteful , sir . 
And now he is ready to intrigue against the government with any adventurer who may have convincing ways and a smooth tongue . 
'' Mr. Wharton , '' I said , rising , did you come here to tell me this ? '' But Mr. Wharton continued to stare into the fire . 
I like you the better for it , my dear sir , '' said he , and I assure you that I mean no offence . 
Colonel Clark is enshrined in our hearts , Democrats and Federalists alike . 
Whatever he may do , we shall love him always . 
But this other man , pooh ! '' he exclaimed , which was as near a vigorous expression as he got . 
Now , sir , to the point . 
I , too , am a Federalist , a friend of Mr. Humphrey Marshall , and , as you know , we are sadly in the minority in Kentucky now . 
I came here to night to ask you to undertake a mission in behalf of myself and certain other gentlemen , and I assure you that my motives are not wholly mercenary . 
'' He paused , smiled , and put the tips of his fingers together . 
I would willingly lose every crop for the next ten years to convict this Wilkinson of treason against the Federal government . 
'' Treason ! '' I repeated involuntarily . 
Mr. Ritchie , '' answered the planter , I gave you credit for some shrewdness . 
Do you suppose the Federal government does not realize the danger of this situation in Kentucky . 
They have tried in vain to open the Mississippi , and are too weak to do it . 
This man Wilkinson goes down to see Miro , and Miro straightway opens the river to us through him . 
How do you suppose Wilkinson did it ? By his charming personality ? '' I said something , I know not what , as the light began to dawn on me . 
And then I added , I had not thought about the General . 
'' Ah , '' replied Mr. Wharton , just so . 
And now you may easily imagine that General Wilkinson has come to a very pretty arrangement with Miro . 
For a certain stipulated sum best known to Wilkinson and Miro , General Wilkinson agrees gradually to detach Kentucky from the Union and join it to his Catholic Majesty's dominion of Louisiana . 
The bribe the opening of the river . 
What the government could not do Wilkinson did by the lifting of his finger . 
'' Still Mr. Wharton spoke without heat . 
Mind you , '' he said , we have no proof of this , and that is my reason for coming here to night , Mr. Ritchie . 
I want you to get proof of it if you can . 
'' You want me '' I said , bewildered . 
You might travel anywhere and scarcely be noticed , I have observed that about you . 
In addition to this you are wary , you are discreet , you are painstaking . 
I ask you to go first to St . 
Louis , in Louisiana territory , and this for two reasons . 
Louis as Colonel Chouteau and Monsieur Gratiot , and I will give you introductions to them . 
You are then to take passage to New Orleans in a barge of furs which Monsieur Gratiot is sending down . 
Mind , we do not expect that you will obtain proof that Miro is paying Wilkinson money . 
If you do , so much the better but we believe that both are too sharp to leave any tracks . 
Will you go ? '' I had made up my mind . 
Yes , I will go , '' I answered . 
Good , '' said Mr. Wharton , but with no more enthusiasm than he had previously shown I thought I had not misjudged you . 
Is your law business so onerous that you could not go to morrow ? '' I laughed . 
I think I could settle what affairs I have by noon , Mr. Wharton , '' I replied . 
Egad , Mr. Ritchie , I like your manner , '' said he and now for a few details , and you may go to bed . 
'' He sat with me half an hour longer , carefully reviewing his instructions , and then he left me to a night of contemplation . 
Suddenly he flew away , and I heard a voice from the street side that brought me stark upright . 
Hold there , neighbor can you direct me to the mansion of that celebrated barrister , Mr. Ritchie ? '' There was no mistaking that voice it was Nicholas Temple's . 
I heard a laugh and an answer , the gate slammed , and Mr. Temple himself in a long gray riding coat , booted and spurred , stood before me . 
Davy , '' he cried , come out here and hug me . 
Why , you look as if I were your grandmother's ghost . 
'' And if you were , '' I answered , you could not have surprised me more . 
Faith , he near shot the top of my head off because I beat him at Greasy Cove . 
'' I laughed , despite my anxiety . 
And Sevier ? '' I demanded . 
You have not heard how Sevier got off ? '' exclaimed Nick . 
They jogged into the town , I say , through the crowds of white trash , and rode up to the court house where Sevier was being tried for his life . 
he looked forward even then to the day when Louisiana would belong to the republic . 
Mr. Ritchie , '' said he , the most casual student of your race must come to the same conclusion . 
You have seen for yourself how they have overrun and conquered Kentucky and the Cumberland districts , despite a hideous warfare waged by all the tribes . 
Your people will not be denied , and when they get to Louisiana , they will take it , as they take everything else . 
'' He was a man strong in argument , was Monsieur Gratiot , for he loved it . 
And he beat me fairly . 
Nay , '' he said finally , Spain might as well try to dam the Mississippi as to dam your commerce on it . 
As for France , I love her , though my people were exiled to Switzerland by the Edict of Nantes . 
But France is rotten through the prodigality of her kings and nobles , and she cannot hold Louisiana . 
The kingdom is sunk in debt . 
'' He cleared his throat . 
As for this Wilkinson of whom you speak , I know something of him . 
I have no doubt that Miro pensions him , but I know Miro likewise , and you will obtain no proof of that . 
You will , however , discover in New Orleans many things of interest to your government and to the Federal party in Kentucky . 
Colonel Chouteau and I will give you letters to certain French gentlemen in New Orleans who can be trusted . 
There is Saint Gre , for instance , who puts a French Louisiana into his prayers . 
He has never forgiven O'Reilly and his Spaniards for the murder of his father in sixty nine . 
Saint Gre is a good fellow , a cousin of the present Marquis in France , and his ancestors held many positions of trust in the colony under the French regime . 
He entertains lavishly at Les Iles , his plantation on the Mississippi . 
He has the gossip of New Orleans at his tongue's tip , and you will be suspected of nothing save a desire to amuse yourselves if you go there . 
'' He paused interrupted by the laughter of the others . 
When strangers of note or of position drift here and pass on to New Orleans , I always give them letters to Saint Gre . 
He has a charming daughter and a worthless son . 
'' Monsieur Gratiot produced his tabatiere and took a pinch of snuff . 
I summoned my courage for the topic which had trembled all the evening on my lips . 
Some years ago , Monsieur Gratiot , a lady and a gentleman were rescued on the Wilderness Trail in Kentucky . 
They left us for St . 
Did they come here ? '' Monsieur Gratiot leaned forward quickly . 
They were people of quality ? '' he demanded . 
'' And their name ? '' They they did not say . 
'' It must have been the Clives , '' he cried it can have been no other . 
Tell me a woman still beautiful , commanding , of perhaps eight and thirty ? A woman who had a sorrow ? a great sorrow , though we have never learned it . 
And are they here ? '' Monsieur Gratiot took another pinch of snuff . 
It seemed an age before he answered It is curious that you should mention them , for I gave them letters to New Orleans , amongst others , to Saint Gre . 
Mrs. Clive was what shall I say ? haunted . 
Monsieur Clive talked of nothing but Paris , where they had lived once . 
And at last she gave in . 
'' To Paris ? '' I said , taking breath . 
It is more than a year ago , '' he continued , seeming not to notice my emotion they went by way of New Orleans , in one of Chouteau's boats . 
Mrs. Clive seemed a woman with a great sorrow . 
'' CHAPTER IX CHERCHEZ LA FEMME'' Sunday came with the soft haziness of a June morning , and the dew sucked a fresh fragrance from the blossoms and the grass . 
I looked out of our window at the orchard , all pink and white in the early sun , and across a patch of clover to the stone kitchen . 
He who has tasted Creole coffee will never forget it . 
I found Monsieur and Madame with their children walking among the flowers . 
He is charming , your cousin , '' said she . 
Let him sleep , by all means , until after Mass . 
Then you must come with us to Madame Chouteau's , my mother's . 
Her children and grandchildren dine with her every Sunday . 
'' Madame Chouteau , my mother in law , is the queen regent of St . 
Louis , Mr. Ritchie , '' said Monsieur Gratiot , gayly . 
We are all afraid of her , and I warn you that she is a very determined and formidable personage . 
She is the widow of the founder of St . 
Louis , the Sieur Laclede , although she prefers her own name . 
She rules us with a strong hand , dispenses justice , settles disputes , and sometimes indulges in them herself . 
'' You will see a very pretty French custom of submission to parents , '' said Madame Gratiot . 
And afterwards there is a ball . 
'' A ball ! '' I exclaimed involuntarily . 
It may seem very strange to you , Mr. Ritchie , but we believe that Sunday was made to enjoy . 
They will have time to attend the ball before you send them down the river ? '' she added mischievously , turning to her husband . 
Certainly , '' said he , the loading will not be finished before eight o'clock . 
Afterwards I strolled about the silent village . 
Even the cabarets were deserted . 
All the world had obeyed the call of the church bell save these and Nick . 
I bethought myself of Nick , and made my way back to Monsieur Gratiot's . 
I found my cousin railing at Benjy , who had extracted from the saddle bags a wondrous gray suit of London cut in which to array his master . 
Clothes became Nick's slim figure remarkably . 
This coat was cut away smartly , like a uniform , towards the tails , and was brought in at the waist with an infinite art . 
Whither now , my conquistador ? '' I said . 
To Mass , '' said he . 
To Mass ! '' I exclaimed but you have slept through the greater part of it . 
'' The best part is to come , '' said Nick , giving a final touch to his neck band . 
Followed by Benjy's adoring eyes , he started out of the door , and I followed him perforce . 
And behind these graves rose the wooded hill that stretched away towards the wilderness . 
Then we heard benches scraping on the floor , and the congregation began to file out . 
I was sure of this when I saw Madame Gratiot behind her . 
Madame Chouteau indeed had the face of authority , a high bridged nose , a determined chin , a mouth that shut tightly . 
Madame Gratiot presented us to her mother , and as she passed on to the gate Madame Chouteau reminded us that we were to dine with her at two . 
But Nick did not hear me . 
I followed his glance to the far side of the circle , and my eye was caught by a red ribbon , a blush that matched it . 
A glance shot from underneath long lashes , but not for me . 
Beside the girl , and palpably uneasy , stood the young man who had been called Gaspard . 
Ah , '' said I , your angel of the tumbrel . 
'' But Nick had pulled off his hat and was sweeping her a bow . 
The girl looked down , smoothing her ribbon , Gaspard took a step forward , and other young women near us tittered with delight . 
The voice of Hippolyte rolling his r's called out in a French dialect M'ssieurs et Mesdames , ce sont des effets d'un pauvre officier qui est mort . 
Who will buy ? '' He opened the hat trunk , produced an antiquated beaver with a gold cord , and surveyed it with a covetousness that was admirably feigned . 
For 'Polyte was an actor . 
M'ssieurs , to own such a hat were a patent of nobility . 
Am I bid twenty livres ? '' There was a loud laughter , and he was bid four . 
Gaspard , '' cried the auctioneer , addressing the young man of the tumbrel , Suzanne would no longer hesitate if she saw you in such a hat . 
And with the trunk , too . 
Ah , mon Dieu , can you afford to miss it ? '' The crowd howled , Suzanne simpered , and Gaspard turned as pink as clover . 
But he was not to be bullied . 
Ha ! '' he cried , his eyes on Gaspard once more , a gentle present a present to make a heart relent . 
And Monsieur Leon , perchance you will make a bid , although they are not gamecocks . 
'' Instantly , from somewhere under the barrel , a cock crew . 
Even the yellow birds looked surprised , and as for 'Polyte , he nearly dropped the cage . 
One elderly person crossed himself . 
His face was impassive , but suddenly I remembered his boyhood gift , how he had imitated the monkeys , and I began to shake with inward laughter . 
There was an uncomfortable silence . 
Peste , c'est la magie ! '' said an old man at last , searching with an uncertain hand for his snuff . 
Monsieur , '' cried Nick to the auctioneer , I will make a bid . 
But first you must tell me whether they are cocks or yellow birds . 
'' Parbleu , '' answered the puzzled Hippolyte , that I do not know , Monsieur . 
'' Everybody looked at Nick , including Suzanne . 
Very well , '' said he , I will make a bid . 
And if they turn out to be gamecocks , I will fight them with Monsieur Leon behind the cabaret . 
Two livres ! '' There was a laugh , as of relief . 
Three ! '' cried Gaspard , and his voice broke . 
M'ssieurs , '' he shouted , they are from the Canaries . 
Diable , un berger doit etre genereux . 
'' Another laugh , and Gaspard wiped the perspiration from his face . 
Five ! '' said he . 
Six ! '' said Nick , and the villagers turned to him in wonderment . 
What could such a fine Monsieur want with two yellow birds ? En avant , Gaspard , '' said Hippolyte , and Suzanne shot another barbed glance in our direction . 
Seven , '' muttered Gaspard . 
Eight ! '' said Nick , immediately . 
Nine , '' said Gaspard . 
Ten , '' said Nick . 
Ten , '' cried Hippolyte , I am offered ten livres for the yellow birds . 
Une bagatelle ! Onze , Gaspard ! Onze ! onze livres , pour l'amour de Suzanne ! '' But Gaspard was silent . 
No appeals , entreaties , or taunts could persuade him to bid more . 
And at length Hippolyte , with a gesture of disdain , handed Nick the cage , as though he were giving it away . 
Monsieur , '' he said , the birds are yours , since there are no more lovers who are worthy of the name . 
'' Monsieur , '' answered Nick , it is to disprove that statement that I have bought the birds . 
Mademoiselle , '' he added , turning to the flushing Suzanne , I pray that you will accept this present with every assurance of my humble regard . 
'' Mademoiselle took the cage , and amidst the laughter of the village at the discomfiture of poor Gaspard , swept Nick a frightened courtesy , one that nevertheless was full of coquetry . 
She want those bird ever sence Captain Lopez he die . 
Monsieur , I am Jean Baptiste Lenoir , Colonel Chouteau's miller , and we ver' happy to see you at the pon' . 
'' If Monsieur will lead the way , '' said Nick , instantly , taking the little man by the arm . 
But you are to dine at Madame Chouteau's , '' I expostulated . 
To be sure , '' said he . 
Plus tard , Mademoiselle nous danserons plus tard . 
'' What devil inhabits you ? '' I said , when I had got him started on the way to Madame Chouteau's . 
Your own , at present , Davy , '' he answered , laying a hand on my shoulder , else I should be on the way to the pon' with Lenoir . 
But the ball is to come , '' and he executed several steps in anticipation . 
Davy , I am sorry for you . 
'' Why ? '' I demanded , though feeling a little self commiseration also . 
You will never know how to enjoy yourself , '' said he , with conviction . 
Madame Chouteau lived in a stone house , wide and low , surrounded by trees and gardens . 
It was a pretty tribute of respect her children and grandchildren paid her that day , in accordance with the old French usage of honoring the parent . 
You have probably delayed Gaspard's wooing another year , Mr. Temple . 
Suzanne is a sad coquette , '' said Colonel Auguste Chouteau , laughing , as we set out for the ball . 
Though Nick was ignorant , he was not ungraceful , and the village laughed and admired . 
For a while the tune held its mad pace , and ended with a shriek and a snap on a high note , for Zeron had broken a string . 
Va t'en , mechant ! '' shrieked Suzanne , excitedly . 
Little Nick cared that the affair soon became the amusement of the company . 
The girl has met her match , for she has played shuttle cock with all the hearts in the village , '' said Monsieur Chouteau . 
But perhaps it is just as well that Mr. Temple is leaving to night . 
I have signed a bon , Mr. Ritchie , by which you can obtain money at New Orleans . 
And do not forget to present our letter to Monsieur de Saint Gre . 
He has a daughter , by the way , who will be more of a match for your friend's fascinations than Suzanne . 
'' The evening faded into twilight , with no signs of weariness from the dancers . 
And presently there stood beside us Jean Baptiste Lenoir , the Colonel's miller . 
B'soir , Monsieur le Colonel , '' he said , touching his skull cap , the water is very low . 
You fren' , '' he added , turning to me , he stay long time in St . 
Louis ? '' He is going away to night , in an hour or so , '' I answered , with thanksgiving in my heart . 
I am sorry , '' said Monsieur Lenoir , politely , but his looks belied his words . 
He is ver' fond Suzanne . 
Peut etre he marry her , but I think not . 
I come away from France to escape the fine gentlemen long time ago they want to run off with my wife . 
'' How long ago did you come from France , Monsieur ? '' I asked , to get away from an uncomfortable subject . 
It is twenty years , '' said he , dreamily , in French . 
I was born in the Quartier Saint Jean , on the harbor of the city of Marseilles near Notre Dame de la Nativite . 
And how he had become a farmer , the tenant of a country family . 
Excitement grew on him , and he mopped his brow with his blue rumal handkerchief . 
They desire all , the nobles , '' he cried , I make the land good , and they seize it . 
I marry a pretty wife , and Monsieur le Comte he want her . 
L'bon Dieu , '' he added bitterly , relapsing into French . 
France is for the King and the nobility , Monsieur . 
The poor have but little chance there . 
In the country I have seen the peasants eat roots , and in the city the poor devour the refuse from the houses of the rich . 
It was we who paid for their luxuries , and with mine own eyes I have seen their gilded coaches ride down weak men and women in the streets . 
They will murder Louis and burn the great chateaux . 
I , who speak to you , am of the people , Monsieur , I know it . 
'' The sun had long set , and with flint and tow they were touching the flame to the candles , which flickered transparent yellow in the deepening twilight . 
So absorbed had I become in listening to Lenoir's description that I had forgotten Nick . 
Now I searched for him among the promenading figures , and missed him . 
In vain did I seek for a glimpse of Suzanne's red ribbons , and I grew less and less attentive to the miller's reminiscences and arraignments of the nobility . 
But we had scarce reached the road before we could see two figures in the distance , hazily outlined in the mid light of the departed sun and the coming moon . 
The first was Monsieur Gratiot himself , the second Benjy . 
Monsieur Gratiot took me by the hand . 
I regret to inform you , Mr. Ritchie , '' said he , politely , that my keel boats are loaded and ready to leave . 
Were you on any other errand I should implore you to stay with us . 
'' Is Temple at your house ? '' I asked faintly . 
Why , no , '' said Monsieur Gratiot I thought he was with you at the ball . 
'' Where is your master ? '' I demanded sternly of Benjy . 
I ain't seed him , Marse Dave , sence I put him inter dem fine clothes 'at he w'ars a cou'tin' . 
'' He has gone off with the girl , '' put in Colonel Chouteau , laughing . 
But where ? '' I said , with growing anger at this lack of consideration on Nick's part . 
I'll warrant that Gaspard or Hippolyte Beaujais will know , if they can be found , '' said the Colonel . 
Neither of them willingly lets the girl out of his sight . 
My host protested that an hour or so would make no difference . 
One was Hippolyte Beaujais , more fantastic than ever as he faced the moon , and the other was Gaspard . 
They had plainly made a common cause , but it was Hippolyte who spoke . 
Monsieur , '' he cried , you seek your friend ? Ha , we have found him , we will lead you to him . 
'' Where is he ? '' said Colonel Chouteau , repressing another laugh . 
On the pond , Monsieur , in a boat , Monsieur , with Suzanne , Monsieur le Colonel ! And , moreover , he will come ashore for no one . 
'' Parbleu , '' said the Colonel , I should think not for any arguments that you two could muster . 
But we will go there . 
'' How far is it ? '' I asked , thinking of Monsieur Gratiot . 
About a mile , '' said Colonel Chouteau , a pleasant walk . 
Here and there , nestling against the gentle slopes of the hillside clearing , was a low thatched farmhouse among its orchards . 
From time to time also I saw Colonel Chouteau shaking with laughter . 
As for me , it was impossible to be angry at Nick for any space . 
Nobody else would have carried off a girl in the face of her rivals for a moonlight row on a pond a mile away . 
The spot was made for romance , a sequestered vale , clad with forest trees , cleared a little by the water side , where Monsieur Lenoir raised his maize and his vegetables . 
And then , when the six of us stood huddled in the rank growth at the water's edge , we saw a boat floating idly in the forest shadow on the far side . 
I put my hand to my mouth . 
Nick ! '' I shouted . 
'' Nick ! '' I shouted again , reenforced vociferously by the others . 
The music ceased , there came feminine laughter across the water , then Nick's voice , in French that dared everything Go away and amuse yourselves at the dance . 
Peste , it is scarce an hour ago I threatened to row ashore and break your heads . 
Parbleu , '' said the Colonel , choking , it is a pity to disturb such a one . 
Gratiot , if it was my boat , I'd delay the departure till morning . 
'' Indeed , I shall have had no small entertainment as a solace , '' said Monsieur Gratiot . 
Go 'way , old man , and leave me alone , For I am a stranger and a long way from home . 
I shouted once more at the top of my lungs Come in here , Nick , instantly ! '' There was a moment's silence . 
By gad , it's Parson Davy ! '' I heard Nick exclaim . 
Halloo , Davy , how the deuce did you get there ? '' No thanks to you , '' I retorted hotly . 
'' Lord , '' said he , is it time to go to New Orleans ? '' One might think New Orleans was across the street , '' said Monsieur Gratiot . 
What an attitude of mind ! '' The dugout was coming towards us now , propelled by easy strokes , and Nick could be heard the while talking in low tones to Suzanne . 
We could only guess at the tenor of his conversation , which ceased entirely as they drew near . 
At length the prow slid in among the rushes , was seized vigorously by Gaspard and Hippolyte , and the boat hauled ashore . 
Thank you very much , Messieurs you are most obliging , '' said Nick . 
And taking Suzanne by the hand , he helped her gallantly over the gunwale . 
Monsieur , '' he added , turning in his most irresistible manner to Monsieur Gratiot , if I have delayed the departure of your boat , I am exceedingly sorry . 
But I appeal to you if I have not the best of excuses . 
'' And he bowed to Suzanne , who stood beside him coyly , looking down . 
As for 'Polyte and Gaspard , they were quite breathless between rage and astonishment . 
But Colonel Chouteau began to laugh . 
Diable , Monsieur , you are right , '' he cried , and rather than have missed this entertainment I would pay Gratiot for his cargo . 
'' Au revoir , Mademoiselle , '' said Nick , I will return when I am released from bondage . 
When this terrible mentor relaxes vigilance , I will escape and make my way back to you through the forests . 
'' Oh ! '' cried Mademoiselle to me , you will let him come back , Monsieur . 
'' Assuredly , Mademoiselle , '' I said , but I have known him longer than you , and I tell you that in a month he will not wish to come back . 
'' Hippolyte gave a grunt of approval to this plain speech . 
Suzanne exclaimed , but before Nick could answer footsteps were heard in the path and Lenoir himself , perspiring , panting , exhausted , appeared in the midst of us . 
Praise be to God for that ! '' said the miller , heartily , there is some advantage in living in the wilderness , when everything is said . 
'' I shall come back and try , Monsieur , '' said Nick . 
The miller raised his hands . 
I assure you that he will not , Monsieur , '' I put in . 
He thanked me profusely , and suddenly an idea seemed to strike him . 
There is the priest , '' he cried Monsieur le cure retires late . 
There is the priest , Monsieur . 
'' There was an awkward silence , broken at length by an exclamation from Gaspard . 
Colonel Chouteau turned his back , and I saw his shoulders heave . 
All eyes were on Nick , but the rascal did not seem at all perturbed . 
Monsieur , '' he said , bowing , marriage is a serious thing , and not to be entered into lightly . 
'' If Mr. Temple wishes '' I began , with malicious delight . 
But Nick took me by the shoulder . 
My dear Davy , '' he said , giving me a vicious kick , I could not think of it . 
I will go with you at once . 
Adieu , Mademoiselle , '' said he , bending over Suzanne's unresisting hand . 
Adieu , Messieurs , and I thank you for your great interest in me . 
And now , Monsieur Gratiot , I have already presumed too much on your patience . 
I will follow you , Monsieur . 
'' We left them , Lenoir , Suzanne , and her two suitors , standing at the pond , and made our way through the path in the forest . 
It was not until we reached the road and had begun to climb out of the valley that the silence was broken between us . 
Monsieur , '' said Colonel Chouteau , slyly , do you have many such escapes ? '' It might have been closer , '' said Nick . 
Closer ? '' ejaculated the Colonel . 
Assuredly , '' said Nick , to the extent of abducting Monsieur le cure . 
As for you , Davy , '' he added , between his teeth , I mean to get even with you . 
'' It was well for us that the Colonel and Monsieur Gratiot took the escapade with such good nature . 
Her captain , a picturesque Canadian by the name of Xavier Paret , was presented to us we bade our friends farewell , and stepped across the plank to the deck . 
As we were casting off , Monsieur Gratiot called to us that he would take the first occasion to send our horses back to Kentucky . 
The oars were manned , the heavy hulk moved , and we were shot out into the mighty current of the river on our way to New Orleans . 
Nick and I stood for a long time on the deck , and the windows of the little village gleamed like stars among the trees . 
We passed the last of its houses that nestled against the hill , and below that the forest lay like velvet under the moon . 
To us Westerners a halo of romance , of unreality , hung over New Orleans . 
It was most fitting that such a place should be the seat of dark intrigues against material progress , and this notion lent added zest to my errand thither . 
As for Nick , it took no great sagacity on my part to predict that he would forget Suzanne and begin to look forward to the Creole beauties of the Mysterious City . 
First , there was the fur laden keel boat in which we travelled , gone forever now from Western navigation . 
It had its rude square sail to take advantage of the river winds , its mast strongly braced to hold the long tow ropes . 
But tow ropes were for the endless up river journey , when a numerous crew strained day after day along the bank , chanting the voyageurs' songs . 
Within the cabin was a great fireplace of stones , where our cooking was done , and bunks set round for the men in cold weather and rainy . 
But in these fair nights we chose to sleep on deck . 
The south wind wafted the sharp wood smoke from the chimney across our faces . 
In the stern Xavier stood immovable against the tiller , his short pipe clutched between his teeth , the colors of his new worsted belt made gorgeous by the rising sun . 
B'jour , Michie , '' he said , and added in the English he had picked up from the British traders , the breakfas' he is ready , and Jean make him good . 
Will you have the grace to descen' ? '' We went down the ladder into the cabin , where the odor of the furs mingled with the smell of the cooking . 
There was a fricassee steaming on the crane , some of Zeron's bread , brought from St . 
Louis , and coffee that Monsieur Gratiot had provided for our use . 
We took our bowls and cups on deck and sat on the edge of the cabin . 
By gad , '' cried Nick , it lacks but the one element to make it a paradise . 
'' And what is that ? '' I demanded . 
A woman , '' said he . 
Xavier , who overheard , gave a delighted laugh . 
Parbleu , Michie , you have right , '' he said , but Michie Gratiot , he say no . 
In Nouvelle Orleans we find some . 
'' Nick got to his feet , and if anything he did could have surprised me , I should have been surprised when he put his arm coaxingly about Xavier's neck . 
Xavier himself was surprised and correspondingly delighted . 
They promenade themselves on the levee , they look down from ze gallerie , mais '' But what , Xavier ? '' But , mon Dieu , Michie , they are vair' difficile . 
They are not like Englis' beauties , there is the father and the mother , and the convent . 
'' And Xavier , who had a wen under his eye , laid his finger on it . 
Me ? Mais non , Michie . 
And yet ze Alcalde , he mek me afraid . 
Once he put me in ze calaboose when I tried to climb ze balcon' . 
I will show you how , Xavier , '' he said as to climbing the balconies , there is a convenance in it , as in all else . 
For instance , one must be daring , and discreet , and nimble , and ready to give the law a presentable answer , and lacking that , a piastre . 
And then the fair one must be a fair one indeed . 
'' Diable , Michie , '' cried Xavier , you are ze mischief . 
'' Nay , '' said Nick , I learned it all and much more from my cousin , Mr. Ritchie . 
'' Xavier stared at me for an instant , and considering that he knew nothing of my character , I thought it extremely impolite of him to laugh . 
Michie Reetchie , '' said Xavier , and again he burst into laughter that choked further speech . 
He controlled himself and laid his finger on his wen . 
You don't believe it , '' said Nick , offended . 
Michie Reetchie a gallant ! '' said Xavier . 
An incurable , '' said Nick , an amazingly clever rogue at device when there is a petticoat in it . 
Davy , do I do you justice ? '' Xavier roared again . 
Quel maitre ! '' he said . 
Xavier , '' said Nick , gently taking the tiller out of his hand , I will teach you how to steer a keel boat . 
'' Mon Dieu , '' said Xavier , and who is to pay Michie Gratiot for his fur ? The river , she is full of things . 
'' Yes , I know , Xavier , but you will teach me to steer . 
'' Volontiers , Michie , as we go now . 
But there come a time when I , even I , who am twenty year on her , do not know whether it is right or left . 
Ze rock he vair' hard . 
Ze snag , he grip you like dat , '' and Xavier twined his strong arms around Nick until he was helpless . 
Ze bar he hol' you by ze leg . 
An' who is to tell you how far he run under ze yellow water , Michie ? I , who speak to you , know . 
But I know not how I know . 
Ze water , sometime she tell , sometime she say not'ing . 
'' A bas , Xavier ! '' said Nick , pushing him away , I will teach you the river . 
'' Xavier laughed , and sat down on the edge of the cabin . 
Nick took easily to accomplishments , and he handled the clumsy tiller with a certainty and distinction that made the boatmen swear in two languages and a patois . 
A great water logged giant of the Northern forests loomed ahead of us . 
Xavier sprang to his feet , but Nick had swung his boat swiftly , smoothly , into the deeper water on the outer side . 
Saint Jacques , Michie , '' cried Xavier , you mek him better zan I thought . 
'' Fascinated by a new accomplishment , Nick held to the tiller , while Xavier with a trained eye scanned the troubled , yellow glistening surface of the river ahead . 
The wind died , the sun beat down with a moist and venomous sting , and northeastward above the edge of the bluff a bank of cloud like sulphur smoke was lifted . 
Gradually Xavier ceased his jesting and became quiet . 
Looks like a hurricane , '' said Nick . 
Mon Dieu , '' said Xavier , you have right , Michie , '' and he called in his rapid patois to the crew , who lounged forward in the cabin's shade . 
There came to my mind the memory of that hurricane at Temple Bow long ago , a storm that seemed to have brought so much sorrow into my life . 
I glanced at Nick , but his face was serene . 
Xavier had the tiller now , and the men were straining at the oars to send the boat across the current towards the nearer western shore . 
A grim stillness reigned over all , broken only now and again by a sharp command from Xavier . 
The men were rowing for their lives , the sweat glistening on their red faces . 
She come , '' said Xavier . 
We were drawing near the forest line , where a little creek made an indentation . 
I listened , and from afar came a sound like the strumming of low notes on a guitar , and sad . 
We grounded , and Xavier , seizing a great tow rope , leaped into the shallow water and passed the bight around a trunk . 
I cried out to Nick , but my voice was drowned . 
He seized me and flung me under the cabin's lee , and then above the fearful note of the storm came cracklings like gunshots of great trees snapping at their trunk . 
It was Nick who moved first . 
With white face he climbed to the roof of the cabin and idly seizing the great limb that lay there tried to move it . 
Xavier , who lay on his face on the bank , rose to a sitting posture and crossed himself . 
Beyond me crowded the four members of the crew , unhurt . 
Then we heard Xavier's voice , in French , thanking the Blessed Virgin for our escape . 
Further speech was gone from us , for men do not talk after such a matter . 
We laid hold of the tree across the cabin and , straining , flung it over into the water . 
A great drop of rain hit me on the forehead , and there came a silver gray downpour that blotted out the scene and drove us down below . 
And then , from somewhere in the depths of the dark cabin , came a sound to make a man's blood run cold . 
What's that ? '' I said , clutching Nick . 
Benjy , '' said he thank God he did not die of fright . 
'' We lighted a candle , and poking around , found the negro where he had crept into the farthest corner of a bunk with his face to the wall . 
And when we touched him he gave vent to a yell that was blood curdling . 
I'se a bad nigger , Lo'd , yes , I is , '' he moaned . 
I ain't fit fo' jedgment , Lo'd . 
'' Nick shook him and laughed . 
Come out of that , Benjy , '' he said you've got another chance . 
Benjy turned , perforce , the whites of his eyes gleaming in the candle light , and stared at us . 
You ain't gone yit , Marse , '' he said . 
Gone where ? '' said Nick . 
I'se done been tole de quality 'll be jedged fust , Marse , '' Nick hauled him out on the floor . 
Climbing to the deck , we found that the boat was already under way , running southward in the current through the misty rain . 
And gazing shoreward , a sight met my eyes which I shall never forget . 
A wide vista , carpeted with wreckage , was cut through the forest to the river's edge , and the yellow water was strewn for miles with green boughs . 
We stared down it , overwhelmed , until we had passed beyond its line . 
It is as straight , '' said Nick , as straight as one of her Majesty's alleys I saw cut through the forest at Saint Cloud . 
Infinite experience , a keen eye , a steady hand , and a nerve of iron are required . 
Once , indeed , we were fast on a sand bar , whence Xavier fairly cursed us off . 
We took care to moor at night , where we could be seen as little as possible from the river , and divided the watches lest we should be surprised by Indians . 
He came up like a log , and must have weighed seventy pounds . 
Xavier and his men and myself made two good meals of him , but Nick would not touch the meat . 
The great river teemed with life . 
Nick found no difficulty in eating this it was a dish fit for any gourmand . 
We did not stop there to exchange courtesies , but pressed on to the Grand Gulf , the grave of many a keel boat before and since . 
And indeed , the Canadian's face assumed a graver mien after the Walnut Hills were behind us . 
You laugh , Michie , '' he said to Nick , a little resentfully . 
I who speak to you say that there is four foot on each side of ze bateau . 
I will see you through safely , and we will not spare the tafia either . 
'' And he began to sing a song of Xavier's own Marianson , dame jolie , Ou est alle votre mari ? '' Ah , toujours les dames ! '' said Xavier . 
But I tell you , Michie , le diable , he is at ze bottom of ze Grand Gulf and his mouth open so . 
'' And he suited the action to the word . 
Dawn came as I was fighting the mosquitoes , a still , sultry dawn with thunder muttering in the distance . 
The prospect was sufficiently disquieting on that murky day . 
It needed no trained eye to guess at the perils of the place . 
Woe betide the boat that got into this devil's caldron ! And on the other side , near the timbered point , ran a counter current marked by forest wreckage flowing up stream . 
To venture too far on this side was to be grounded or at least to be sent back to embark once more on the trial . 
But where was the channel ? We watched Xavier with bated breath . 
A triumphant gleam was in Xavier's eyes , for he had hit the channel squarely . 
But Xavier saw it , and quick as lightning brought his helm over and laughed as he heard it crunching along our keel . 
And so we came swiftly around the bend and into safety once more . 
Natchez at that date was a sufficiently unkempt and evil place of dirty , ramshackle houses and gambling dens , where men of the four nations gamed and quarrelled and fought . 
I have mine yet among my papers . 
Natchez , de Junio , de . 
Concedo libre y seguro paeaporte a Don David Ritchie para que pase a la Nueva Orleans por Agna . 
Pido y encargo no se le ponga embarazo . 
'' A few days more and we were running between low shores which seemed to hold a dark enchantment . 
, who stood like a sentinel on the points . 
God have mercy on us , '' I heard him mutter , what's that ? It sounds like the wail of all the babies since the world began . 
'' We listened together , and I can give no notion of the hideous mournfulness of the sound . 
We lay in a swampy little inlet , and the forest wall made a dark blur against the star studded sky . 
There was a splash near the boat that made me clutch my legs , the wails ceased and began again with redoubled intensity . 
Nick and I leaped to our feet and stood staring , horrified , over the gunwale into the black water . 
Presently there was a laugh behind us , and we saw Xavier resting on his elbow . 
What devil haunted place is this ? '' demanded Nick . 
'' Ha , ha , '' laughed Xavier , flinging off his blanket and searching for his flint and tinder . 
He lighted a pine knot , and in the red pulsing flare we saw what seemed to be a dozen black logs floating on the surface . 
And then Xavier flung the cresset at them , fire and all . 
There was a lashing , a frightful howl from one of the logs , and the night's silence once more . 
Often after that our slumbers were disturbed , and we would rise with maledictions in our mouths to fling the handiest thing at the serenaders . 
When we arose in the morning we would often see them by the dozens , basking in the shallows , with their wide mouths flapped open waiting for their prey . 
Sometimes we ran upon them in the water , where they looked like the rough bark pine logs from the North , and Nick would have a shot at them . 
When he hit one fairly there would be a leviathan like roar and a churning of the river into suds . 
And as we drifted we heard the negroes chanting at their work , the plaintive cadence of the strange song adding to the mystery of the scene . 
Here in truth was a new world , a land of peaceful customs , green and moist . 
The soft toned bells of it seemed an expression of its life , so far removed from our own striving and fighting existence in Kentucky . 
At last , late one afternoon , we came in sight of that strange city which had filled our thoughts for many days . 
Xavier , however , was not to be caught thus , and presently we were gliding quietly along the eastern bank , or levee , which held back the river from the lowlands . 
No sooner had we made fast than we were boarded by a shabby customs officer who , when he had seen our passports , bowed politely and invited us to land . 
We leaped ashore , gained the gravelled walk on the levee , and looked about us . 
Squalidity first met our eyes . 
Below us , crowded between the levee and the row of houses , were dozens of squalid market stalls tended by cotton clad negroes . 
The levee was deserted save for the negroes and the river men . 
Time for siesta , Michie , '' said Xavier , joining us I will show you ze inn of which I spik . 
She is kep' by my fren' , Madame Bouvet . 
'' Followed by Benjy with the saddle bags , we went down the steps set in the levee into this strange , foreign city . 
, casting shadows on lemon colored walls . 
Here and there a shop was set in the wall a watchmaker was to be seen poring over his work at a tiny window , a shoemaker cross legged on the floor . 
Again , at an open wicket , we caught a glimpse through a cool archway into a flowering court yard . 
Stalwart negresses with bright kerchiefs made way for us on the banquette . 
Hands on hips , they swung along erect , with baskets of cakes and sweetmeats on their heads , musically crying their wares . 
At length , turning a corner , we came to a white wooden house on the Rue Royale , with a flight of steps leading up to the entrance . 
At the far end of this gallery a sallow , buxom lady sat sewing at a table , and Xavier saluted her very respectfully . 
Madame , '' he said , I have brought you from St . 
Louis with Michie Gratiot's compliments two young American gentlemen , who are travelling to amuse themselves . 
'' The lady rose and beamed upon us . 
From Monsieur Gratiot , '' she said you are very welcome , gentlemen , to such poor accommodations as I have . 
It is not unusual to have American gentlemen in New Orleans , for many come here first and last . 
And I am happy to say that two of my best rooms are vacant . 
Within I could dimly see a walnut dresser , a chair , and a walnut bed on which was spread a mosquito bar . 
Voila ! , Messieurs , '' cried Madame Bouvet , there is still a little time for a siesta . 
No siesta ! '' cried Madame , eying us aghast ah , the Americans they never rest never . 
And I reflected that his indulgence in pleasure seeking would serve the more to divert any suspicions which might fall upon my own head . 
At last , when the setting sun was flooding the court yard , he stood arrayed upon the gallery , ready to venture forth to conquest . 
Madame Bouvet's tavern , or hotel , or whatever she was pleased to call it , was not immaculately clean . 
Near this window was a gay party of young men engaged at cards , waited on by the yellow turbaned Zoey , and drinking what evidently was claret punch . 
The sounds of their jests and laughter pursued us out of the house . 
The town was waking from its siesta , the streets filling , and people stopped to stare at Nick as we passed . 
But Nick , who was plainly in search of something he did not find , hurried on . 
An old man in coarse blue linen came out of the lodge and spoke to me . 
For forty five years , Monsieur , the young ladies of the city have come here to be educated . 
'' What does he say ? '' demanded Nick , pricking up his ears as he came across the street . 
That young men have been sent to the mines of Brazil for climbing the walls , '' I answered . 
Who wants to climb the walls ? '' said Nick , disgusted . 
The young ladies of the town go to school here , '' I answered it is a convent . 
'' It might serve to pass the time , '' said Nick , gazing with a new interest at the latticed windows . 
How much would you take , my friend , to let us in at the back way this evening ? '' he demanded of the porter in French . 
Pooh ! '' exclaimed Nick , when the man had paused for want of breath , it is no trick to get over that wall . 
'' The young ladies are beautiful , you say ? '' said Nick . 
At this juncture , with the negroes grinning and the porter near bursting with rage , there came out of the lodge the fattest woman I have ever seen for her size . 
She seized her husband by the back of his loose frock and pulled him away , crying out that he was losing time by talking to vagabonds , besides disturbing the good sisters . 
Then we went away , Nick following the convent wall down to the river . 
Turning southward under the bank past the huddle of market stalls , we came suddenly upon a sight that made us pause and wonder . 
A gay and laughing throng paced the esplanade on the levee under the willows , with here and there a cavalier on horseback on the Royal Road below . 
Across the Place d'Armes the spire of the parish church stood against the fading sky , and to the westward the mighty river stretched away like a gilded floor . 
It was a strange throng . 
had brought a sprinkling of fashion to town that day , and it was a fashion to astonish me . 
There were fine gentlemen with swords and silk waistcoats and silver shoe buckles , and ladies in filmy summer gowns . 
Greuze ruled the mode in France then , but New Orleans had not got beyond Watteau . 
As for Nick and me , we knew nothing of Greuze and Watteau then , and we could only stare in astonishment . 
And for once we saw an officer of the Louisiana Regiment resplendent in a uniform that might have served at court . 
Ay , and there was yet another sort . 
For here were these ladies in the flesh , their great , opaque , almond eyes consuming us with a swift glance , and each walking with a languid grace beside her duenna . 
Their faces were like old ivory , their dress the stern Miro himself could scarce repress . 
In former times they had been lavish in their finery , and even now earrings still gleamed and color broke out irrepressibly . 
Egad , '' said Nick , there is my divinity , and I need not look a step farther . 
You have but to choose , I suppose , and all falls your way , '' I answered . 
'' You are mad , Nick , '' I answered , pulling him on , these people are not to be stared at so . 
And once I present our letters to Monsieur de Saint Gre , it will not be difficult to know any of them . 
'' Look ! '' said he , that young man , lover or husband , is a brute . 
On my soul , they are quarrelling . 
'' The three had stopped by a bench under a tree . 
People who were passing stared curiously at the three . 
Your divinity evidently has a temper , I remarked . 
For that scoundel certainly , '' said Nick but come , they are moving on . 
'' You mean to follow them ? '' I exclaimed . 
Why not ? '' said he . 
We will find out where they live and who they are , at least . 
'' And you have taken a fancy to this girl ? '' I have looked them all over , and she's by far the best I've seen . 
I can say so much honestly . 
'' But she may be married , '' I said weakly . 
Tut , Davy , '' he answered , it's more than likely , from the violence of their quarrel . 
But if so , we will try again . 
'' We ! '' I exclaimed . 
Oh , come on ! '' he cried , dragging me by the sleeve , or we shall lose them . 
'' I resisted no longer , but followed him down the levee , in my heart thanking heaven that he had not taken a fancy to an octoroon . 
They turned into one of the narrower streets , and we quickened our steps . 
Lights gleamed in the houses voices and laughter , and once the tinkle of a guitar , came to us from court yard and gallery . 
But Nick , hurrying on , came near to bowling more than one respectable citizen we met on the banquette , into the ditch . 
We reached a corner , and the three were nowhere to be seen . 
Curse the luck ! '' cried Nick , we have lost them . 
The next time I'll stop for no explanations . 
'' There was no particular reason why I should have been penitent , but I ventured to say that the house they had entered could not be far off . 
And how the devil are we to know it ? '' demanded Nick . 
This puzzled me for a moment , but presently I began to think that the two might begin quarrelling again , and said so . 
Nick laughed and put his arm around my neck . 
You have no mean ability for intrigue when you put your mind to it , Davy , '' he said I vow I believe you are in love with the girl yourself . 
'' I disclaimed this with some vehemence . 
Indeed , I had scarcely seen her . 
They can't be far off , '' said Nick we'll pitch on a likely house and camp in front of it until bedtime . 
'' And be flung into a filthy calaboose by a constable , '' said I. No , thank you . 
'' We walked on , and halfway down the block we came upon a new house with more pretensions than its neighbors . 
Over the wall hung a dark fringe of magnolia and orange boughs . 
We took our stand within the empty doorway of a blackened house , nearly opposite , and there we waited , Nick murmuring all sorts of ridiculous things in my ear . 
But presently I began to reflect upon the consequences of being taken in such a situation by a constable and dragged into the light of a public examination . 
I put this to Nick as plainly as I could , and was declaring my intention of going back to Madame Bouvet's , when the sound of voices arrested me . 
In the all but darkness we saw a figure climb over the railing , hang suspended for an instant , and drop lightly to the ground . 
Instinctively I seized Nick by the arm as he started out of the doorway . 
Let me go , '' he cried angrily , let me go , Davy . 
'' But I held on . 
Are you mad ? '' I said . 
He did not answer , but twisted and struggled , and before I knew what he was doing he had pushed me off the stone step into a tangle of blackened beams behind . 
I dropped his arm to save myself , and it was mere good fortune that I did not break an ankle in the fall . 
When I had gained the step again he was gone after the man , and a portly citizen stood in front of me , looking into the doorway . 
Qu'est ce qu'il y a la dedans ? '' he demanded sharply . 
It was a sufficiently embarrassing situation . 
As I turned the corner I glanced over my shoulder , and in the darkness I could just make out the man standing where I had left him . 
In great uneasiness I pursued my way , my imagination summing up for Nick all kinds of adventures with disagreeable consequences . 
He might not , after all , have caught the fellow . 
There were few people in the dark streets , but at length I met a man who gave me directions , and presently found my way back to my lodging place . 
Ah , Monsieur , '' said Madame Bouvet's voice behind me , you must excuse them . 
But , after all , what would you ? '' she added with a shrug I love them , the young men . 
Madame shot at me the swiftest of glances and laughed , and I suspected that she divined Nick's propensity for adventure . 
Presently Madame Bouvet returned , and placing before me a cup of wondrous coffee , advanced down the room towards them . 
Ah , Messieurs , '' she cried , you will ruin my poor house . 
'' The five rose and bowed with marked profundity . 
One of them , with a puffy , weak , good natured face , answered her briskly , and after a little raillery she came back to me . 
I had a question not over discreet on my tongue's tip . 
There are some fine residences going up here , Madame , '' I said . 
Since the fire , Monsieur , the dreadful fire of Good Friday a year ago . 
'' To Monsieur de Saint Gre ! '' I repeated . 
She shot a look at me . 
She had bright little eyes like a bird's , that shone in the candlelight . 
You know him , Monsieur ? '' I heard of him in St . 
Louis , '' I answered . 
You will meet him , no doubt , '' she continued . 
He is a very fine gentleman . 
'' She paused , as if to let this impress itself upon me , and added archly , Tenez , Monsieur , there is a daughter '' She stopped abruptly . 
I followed her glance , and my first impression of claret color gave me a shock . 
In an instant I knew it to be that of the young man whom I had seen on the levee . 
Monsieur Auguste ? '' stammered Madame . 
Bon soir , Madame , '' he cried gayly , with a bow diable , they are already at it , I see , and the punch in the bowl . 
I will win back to night what I have lost by a week of accursed luck . 
'' Monsieur your father has relented , perhaps , '' said Madame , deferentially . 
Relented ! '' cried the young man , not a sou . 
C'est egal ! I have the means here , '' and he tapped his pocket , I have the means here to set me on my feet again , Madame . 
'' He spoke with a note of triumph , and Madame took a curious step towards him . 
Qu'est ce que c'est , Monsieur Auguste ? '' she inquired . 
He drew something that glittered from his pocket and beckoned to her to follow him down the room , which she did with alacrity . 
Ha , Adolphe , '' he cried to the young man of the puffy face , I will have my revenge to night . 
Voila ! ! '' and he held up the shining thing , this goes to the highest bidder , and you will agree that it is worth a pretty sum . 
'' They rose from their chairs and clustered around him at the table , Madame in their midst , staring with bent heads at the trinket which he held to the light . 
It was Madame's voice I heard first , in a kind of frightened cry . 
Mon Dieu , Monsieur Auguste , you will not part with that ! '' she exclaimed . 
Why not ? '' demanded the young man , indifferently . 
It was painted by Boze , the back is solid gold , and the Jew in the Rue Toulouse will give me four hundred livres for it to morrow morning . 
could distinguish but little of what they said . 
I looked in wonderment at the gesticulating figures grouped against the light , Madame imploring , the youthful profile of the newcomer marked with a cynical and scornful refusal . 
She sank into the chair beside me . 
If I had four hundred livres , '' she said , if I had four hundred livres ! '' And what then ? '' I asked . 
Monsieur , '' she said , a terrible thing has happened . 
Auguste de Saint Gre '' Auguste de Saint Gre ! '' I exclaimed . 
He is the son of that Monsieur de Saint Gre of whom we spoke , '' she answered , a wild lad , a spendthrift , a gambler , if you like . 
And yet he is a Saint Gre , Monsieur , and I cannot refuse him . 
It is the miniature of Mademoiselle Helene de Saint Gre , the daughter of the Marquis , sent to Mamselle 'Toinette , his sister , from France . 
How he has obtained it I know not . 
'' Ah ! '' I exclaimed sharply , the explanation of the scene of which I had been a witness coming to me swiftly . 
The rascal had wrenched it from her in the gallery and fled . 
I had a letter in my pocket to Monsieur de Saint Gre , the sum was not large , and the act of Monsieur Auguste de Saint Gre in every light was detestable . 
A rising anger decided me , and I took a wallet from my pocket . 
I will buy the miniature , Madame , '' I said . 
She looked at me in astonishment . 
God bless you , Monsieur , '' she cried if you could see Mamselle 'Toinette you would pay twice the sum . 
The whole town loves her . 
Monsieur Auguste , Monsieur Auguste ! '' she shouted , here is a gentleman who will buy your miniature . 
'' The six young men stopped talking and stared at me With one accord . 
Madame arose , and I followed her down the room towards them , and , had it not been for my indignation , I should have felt sufficiently ridiculous . 
Young Monsieur de Saint Gre came forward with the good natured , easy insolence to which he had been born , and looked me over . 
Monsieur is an American , '' he said . 
I understand that you have offered this miniature for four hundred livres , '' I said . 
It is the Jew's price , '' he answered mais pardieu , what will you ? '' he added with a shrug , I must have the money . 
Regardez , Monsieur , you have a bargain . 
Here is Mademoiselle Helene de Saint Gre , daughter of my lord the Marquis of whom I have the honor to be a cousin , '' and he made a bow . 
It is by the famous court painter , Joseph Boze , and Mademoiselle de Saint Gre herself is a favorite of her Majesty . 
'' He held the portrait close to the candle and regarded it critically . 
A trifle haughty , if you like , Monsieur , but I venture to say you will be hopelessly in love with her within the hour . 
'' At this there was a general titter from the young gentlemen at the table . 
All of which is neither here nor there , Monsieur , '' I answered sharply . 
The question is purely a commercial one , and has nothing to do with the lady's character or position . 
'' It is well said , Monsieur , '' Madame Bouvet put in . 
Monsieur Auguste de Saint Gre shrugged his slim shoulders and laid down the portrait on the walnut table . 
Four hundred livres , Monsieur , '' he said . 
I counted out the money , scrutinized by the curious eyes of his companions , and pushed it over to him . 
He bowed carelessly , sat him down , and began to shuffle the cards , while I picked up the miniature and walked out of the room . 
Before I had gone twenty paces I heard them laughing at their game and shouting out the stakes . 
Suddenly I bethought myself of Nick . 
What if he should come in and discover the party at the table ? I stopped short in the hallway , and there Madame Bouvet overtook me . 
How can I thank you , Monsieur ? '' she said . 
And now , Madame , I have a favor to ask of you . 
'' I am at Monsieur's service , '' she answered simply . 
When Mr. Temple comes in , he is not to go into that room , '' I said , pointing to the door of the saloon I have my reasons for requesting it . 
'' For answer Madame went to the door , closed it , and turned the key . 
Then she sat down beside a little table with a candlestick and took up her knitting . 
It will be as Monsieur says , '' she answered . 
And when Mr. Temple comes in will you kindly say that I am waiting for him in his room ? '' I asked . 
As Monsieur says , '' she answered . 
I wish Monsieur a good night and pleasant dreams . 
'' She took a candlestick from the table , lighted the candle , and handed it me with a courtesy . 
I bowed , and made my way along the gallery above the deserted court yard . 
Entering my room and closing the door after me , I drew the miniature from my pocket and stood gazing at it for I know not how long . 
It was no French face of my imagination , and as I looked it seemed to me that I knew Mademoiselle Helene de Saint Gre . 
And yet I smile as I write this , realizing full well that my strange and foreign surroundings and my unforeseen adventure had much to do with my state of mind . 
The lady in the miniature might have been eighteen , or thirty five . 
The eyebrows were straight , the brown eyes looked at the world with an almost scornful sense of humor , and I marked that there was determination in the chin . 
Here was a face that could be infinitely haughty or infinitely tender , a mouth of witty nay , perhaps cutting repartee of brevity and force . 
A lady who spoke quickly , moved quickly , or reposed absolutely . 
was capable of a supreme surrender . 
I was aroused from this odd revery by footsteps on the gallery , and Nick burst into the room . 
Without pausing to look about him , he flung himself lengthwise on the bed on top of the mosquito bar . 
A thousand curses on such a place , '' he cried it is full of rat holes and rabbit warrens . 
'' Did you catch your man ? '' I asked innocently . 
Catch him ! '' said Nick , with a little excusable profanity he went in at one end of such a warren and came out at another . 
I waited for him in two streets until an officious person chanced along and threatened to take me before the Alcalde . 
What the devil is that you have got in your hand , Davy ? '' he demanded , raising his head . 
A miniature that took my fancy , and which I bought . 
'' He rose from the bed , yawned , and taking it in his hand , held it to the light . 
Lord , '' he said , it is such a passion as I might have suspected of you , Davy . 
'' There was nothing said about passion , '' I answered Then why the deuce did you buy it ? '' he said with some pertinence . 
A man may fancy a thing , without indulging in a passion , I suppose , '' I replied . 
Nick held the picture at arm's length in the palm of his hand and regarded it critically . 
Faith , '' said he , you may thank heaven it is only a picture . 
If such a one ever got hold of you , Davy , she would general you even as you general me . 
Egad , '' he added with a laugh , there would be no more walking the streets at night in search of adventure for you . 
Consider carefully the masterful features of that lady and thank God you haven't got her . 
'' I was inclined to be angry , but ended by laughing . 
There will be no rivalry between us , at least , '' I said . 
Rivalry ! '' exclaimed Nick . 
Heaven forbid that I should aspire to such abject slavery . 
When I marry , it will be to command . 
'' All the more honor in such a conquest , '' I suggested . 
Davy , '' said he , I have long been looking for some such flaw in your insuperable wisdom . 
But I vow I can keep my eyes open no longer . 
Benjy ! A smothered response came from the other side of the wall , and Benjy duly appeared in the doorway , blinking at the candlelight , to put his master to bed . 
We slept that night with no bed covering save the mosquito bar , as was the custom in New Orleans . 
She arose and courtesied , with a questioning smile . 
You are going to return the portrait , Monsieur ? '' I nodded . 
God bless you for the deed , '' said she . 
I will make no promises , Madame , '' I answered . 
She looked at me timidly , appealingly , but I bowed and departed . 
The sun was riding up into the sky , the walls already glowing with his heat , and a midsummer languor seemed to pervade the streets as I walked along . 
I knocked at the gate , and presently a bright turbaned gardienne opened it . 
Was Monsieur de Saint Gre at home . 
This information I extracted with difficulty , for I was not by any means versed in the negro patois . 
As I walked back to Madame Bouvet's I made up my mind that there was but the one thing to do , to go at once to Monsieur de Saint Gre's plantation . 
Finding Madame still waiting in the gallery , I asked her to direct me thither . 
You have but to follow the road that runs southward along the levee , and some three leagues will bring you to it , Monsieur . 
You will inquire for Monsieur de Saint Gre . 
'' Can you direct me to Mr. Daniel Clark's ? '' I asked . 
The American merchant and banker , the friend and associate of the great General Wilkinson whom you sent down to us last year ? Certainly , Monsieur . 
He will no doubt give you better advice than I on this matter . 
He being the only prominent American in the place , it was natural that Wilkinson should have formed with him a business arrangement to care for the cargoes he sent down . 
Indeed , after we had sat for some time chatting together , Mr. Clark began himself to make guarded inquiries on this very subject . 
, and said that Mr. Temple and I would need horses to get to Les Iles . 
I shall not presume to advise a Kentuckian on such a purchase . 
'' The horses were crowded together under a dirty shed near the levee , and the vessel from which they had been landed rode at anchor in the river . 
They were the scrawny , tough ponies of the plains , reasonably cheap , and it took no great discernment on my part to choose three of the strongest and most intelligent looking . 
He begged that we would dine with him when we returned from Les Iles . 
You will not find an island , Mr. Ritchie , '' he said Saint Gre's plantation is a huge block of land between the river and a cypress swamp behind . 
Saint Gre is a man with a wonderful quality of mind , who might , like his ancestors , have made his mark if necessity had probed him or opportunity offered . 
He never forgave the Spanish government for the murder of his father , nor do I blame him . 
His son is an incurable rake and degenerate , as you may have heard . 
'' I went back to Madame Bouvet's , to find Nick emerging from his toilet . 
What deviltry have you been up to , Davy ? '' he demanded . 
I have been to the House of the Lions to see your divinity , '' I answered , and in a very little while horses will be here to carry us to her . 
'' What do you mean ? '' he asked , grasping me by both shoulders . 
I mean that we are going to her father's plantation , some way down the river . 
'' On my honor , Davy , I did not suspect you of so much enterprise , '' he cried . 
And her husband ? '' Does not exist , '' I replied . 
Perhaps , after all , I might be able to give you instruction in the conduct of an adventure . 
The man you chased with such futility was her brother , and he stole from her the miniature of which I am now the fortunate possessor . 
He stared at me for a moment in rueful amazement . 
And her name ? '' he demanded . 
Antoinette de Saint Gre , '' I answered our letter is to her father . 
'' He made me a rueful bow . 
I fear that I have undervalued you , Mr. Ritchie , '' he said . 
I am unworthy to accompany you , and furthermore , it would be useless . 
'' And why useless ! '' I inquired , laughing . 
You have doubtless seen the lady , and she is yours , said he . 
You forget that I am in love with a miniature , '' I said . 
Turning southward , we soon left behind the shaded esplanade and the city's roofs below us , and came to the first of the plantation houses set back amidst the dark foliage . 
The sun's rays pierced it and gathered fire the mighty river beside us rolled listless and sullen , flinging back the heat defiantly . 
Our ponies ambled on , unmindful but Nick vowed that no woman under heaven would induce him to undertake such a journey again . 
Some three miles out of the city we descried two figures on horseback coming towards us , and quickly perceived that one was a gentleman , the other his black servant . 
Phew ! '' said Nick , twisting in his saddle , I thought that all Creoles were lazy . 
'' We have met the exception , perhaps , '' I answered . 
Did you take in that man ? '' His looks were a little remarkable , come to think of it , '' answered Nick , settling down into his saddle again . 
Nick slipped from his horse . 
Behold the mansion of Mademoiselle de Saint Gre , '' said he , waving his hand up the vista . 
How do you know ? '' I asked . 
'' We will rest here , '' I said , laughing , and send in Benjy to find out . 
'' Davy , '' he answered , with withering contempt , you have no more romance in you than a turnip . 
We will go ourselves and see what befalls . 
'' Very well , then , '' I answered , falling in with his humor , we will go ourselves . 
'' He brushed his face with his handkerchief , gave himself a pull here and a pat there , and led the way down the alley . 
But we had not gone far before he turned into a path that entered the grove on the right , and to this likewise I made no protest . 
was like unto the perfume of all the flowers and all the fruits , the very essence of the delicious languor of the place that made our steps to falter . 
A bird shot a bright flame of color through the checkered light ahead of us . 
Suddenly a sound brought us to a halt , and we stood in a tense and wondering silence . 
The words of a song , sung carelessly in a clear , girlish voice , came to us from beyond . 
'' We have come at the very zenith of opportunity , '' I whispered . 
Hush ! '' he said . 
'' Eliminating Mr. Ritchie , I believe , '' said Nick , turning on me with a grimace . 
'' The song ceased with a sound that was half laughter , half sigh . 
Before I realized what he was doing , Nick , instead of retracing his steps towards the house , started forward . 
The path led through a dense thicket which became a casino hedge , and suddenly I found myself peering over his shoulder into a little garden bewildering in color . 
In the centre of the garden a great live oak spread its sheltering branches . 
Around the gnarled trunk was a seat . 
And Nick was making a bow in his grandest manner . 
Helas , Mademoiselle , '' he said , je ne suis pas officier , mais on peut arranger tout cela , sans doute . 
'' My breath was taken away by this unheard of audacity , and I braced myself against screams , flight , and other feminine demonstrations of terror . 
The young lady did nothing of the kind . 
She turned her back to us , leaned against the tree , and to my astonishment I saw her slim shoulders shaken with laughter . 
At length , very slowly , she looked around , and in her face struggled curiosity and fear and merriment . 
Nick made another bow , worthy of Versailles , and she gave a frightened little laugh . 
You are English , Messieurs yes ? '' she ventured . 
We were once ! '' cried Nick , but we have changed , Mademoiselle . 
'' Et quoi donc ? '' relapsing into her own language . 
Americans , '' said he . 
Allow me to introduce to you the Honorable David Ritchie , whom you rejected a few moments ago . 
'' Whom I rejected ? '' she exclaimed . 
Alas , '' said Nick , with a commiserating glance at me , he has the misfortune to be a lawyer . 
'' Mademoiselle shot at me the swiftest and shyest of glances , and turned to us once more her quivering shoulders . 
There was a brief silence . 
Mademoiselle ? '' said Nick , taking a step on the garden path . 
Monsieur ? '' she answered , without so much as looking around . 
What , now , would you take this gentleman to be ? '' he asked with an insistence not to be denied . 
Again she was shaken with laughter , and suddenly to my surprise she turned and looked full at me . 
In English , Monsieur , you call it a gallant ? '' My face fairly tingled , and I heard Nick laughing with unseemly merriment . 
Ah , Mademoiselle , '' he cried , you are a judge of character , and you have read him perfectly . 
'' Then I must leave you , Messieurs , '' she answered , with her eyes in her lap . 
But she made no move to go . 
You need have no fear of Mr. Ritchie , Mademoiselle , '' answered Nick , instantly . 
I am here to protect you against his gallantry . 
'' This time Nick received the glance , and quailed before it . 
And who par exemple is to protect me against you , Monsieur ? '' she asked in the lowest of voices . 
You forget that I , too , am unprotected and vulnerable , Mademoiselle , '' he answered . 
Her face was hidden again , but not for long . 
How did you come ? '' she demanded presently . 
On air , '' he answered , for we saw you in New Orleans yesterday . 
'' She rose , her sewing falling to the ground , and took a few startled steps towards us . 
Monsieur ! you will be heard , '' she cried . 
And put out of the Garden of Eden , '' said Nick . 
I must leave you , '' she said , with the quaintest of English pronunciation . 
Yet she stood irresolute in the garden path , a picture against the dark green leaves and the flowers . 
Her age might have been seventeen . 
Her gown was of some soft and light material printed in buds of delicate color , her slim arms bare above the elbow . 
Presently her gaze was fixed seriously on me . 
Do you think it very wrong , Monsieur ? '' she asked . 
I was more than taken aback by this tribute . 
'' Her next question staggered me . 
You are well born ? '' she asked . 
Mr. Ritchie's grandfather was a Scottish earl , '' said Nick , immediately , a piece of news that startled me into protest . 
It is true , Davy , though you may not know it , '' he added . 
And you , Monsieur ? '' she said to Nick . 
I am his cousin , is it not honor enough ? '' said he . 
Yet you do not resemble one another . 
'' Mr. Ritchie has all the good looks in the family , '' said Nick . 
Oh ! '' cried the young lady , and this time she gave us her profile . 
Come , Mademoiselle , '' said Nick , since the fates have cast the die , let us all sit down in the shade . 
The place was made for us . 
'' Monsieur ! '' she cried , giving back , I have never in my life been alone with gentlemen . 
'' But Mr. Ritchie is a duenna to satisfy the most exacting , '' said Nick when you know him better you will believe me . 
'' She laughed softly and glanced at me . 
By this time we were all three under the branches . 
Monsieur , you do not understand the French customs . 
Mon Dieu , if the good Sister Lorette could see me now '' But she is safe in the convent , '' said Nick . 
Are they going to put glass on the walls ? '' And why ? '' asked Mademoiselle , innocently . 
Because , '' said Nick , because a very bad man has come to New Orleans , one who is given to climbing walls . 
'' You ? '' Yes . 
But when I found that a certain demoiselle had left the convent , I was no longer anxious to climb them . 
'' And how did you know that I had left it ? '' I was at a loss to know whether this were coquetry or innocence . 
Because I saw you on the levee , '' said Nick . 
You saw me on the levee ? '' she repeated , giving back . 
And I had a great fear , '' the rogue persisted . 
A fear of what ? '' A fear that you were married , '' he said , with a boldness that made me blush . 
As for Mademoiselle , a color that vied with the June roses charged through her cheeks . 
She stooped to pick up her sewing , but Nick was before her . 
And why did you think me married ? '' she asked in a voice so low that we scarcely heard . 
Faith , '' said Nick , because you seemed to be quarrelling with a man . 
'' She turned to him with an irresistible seriousness . 
And is that your idea of marriage , Monsieur ? '' This time it was I who laughed , for he had been hit very fairly . 
Mademoiselle , '' said he , I did not for a moment think it could have been a love match . 
'' Mademoiselle turned away and laughed . 
You are the very strangest man I have ever seen , '' she said . 
Shall I give you my notion of a love match , Mademoiselle ? '' said Nick . 
I should think you might be well versed in the subject , Monsieur , '' she answered , speaking to the tree , but here is scarcely the time and place . 
'' She wound up her sewing , and faced him . 
I must really leave you , '' she said . 
He took a step towards her and stood looking down into her face . 
And am I never to see you again ? '' he asked . 
Monsieur ! '' she cried softly , I do not know who you are . 
'' She made him a courtesy , took a few steps in the opposite path , and turned . 
That depends upon your ingenuity , '' she added you seem to have no lack of it , Monsieur . 
You must not go , '' he cried . 
Must not ? How dare you speak to me thus , Monsieur ? '' Then she tempered it . 
There is a lady here whom I love , and who is ill . 
I must not be long from her bedside . 
'' She is very ill ? '' said Nick , probably for want of something better . 
We love her as one of the family . 
'' This was certainly ingenuous , and it was plain that the girl gave us this story through a certain nervousness , for she twisted her sewing in her fingers as she spoke . 
Mademoiselle , '' said Nick , I would not keep you from such an errand of mercy . 
'' She gave him a grateful look , more dangerous than any which had gone before . 
And besides , '' he went on , we have come to stay awhile with you , Mr. Ritchie and myself . 
'' You have come to stay awhile ? '' she said . 
I thought it time that the farce were ended . 
'' Mademoiselle stared at me in unfeigned astonishment . 
But did you not meet him , Monsieur ? '' she demanded . 
He left an hour ago for New Orleans . 
You must have met a gentleman riding very fast . 
'' It was my turn to be astonished . 
But that was not your father ! '' I exclaimed . 
Et pourquoi non ? '' she said . 
Is not your father the stout gentleman whom I saw with you on the levee last evening ? '' I asked . 
You have been observing , Monsieur , '' she said . 
That was my uncle , Monsieur de Beausejour . 
You saw me quarrelling with my brother , Auguste , '' she went on a little excitedly . 
Oh , I am very much ashamed of it . 
My cousin , Mademoiselle Helene de Saint Gre , has just sent me from France such a beautiful miniature , and Auguste fell in love with it . 
'' Fell in love with it ! '' I exclaimed involuntarily . 
You should see it , Monsieur , and I think you also would fall in love with it . 
'' I have not a doubt of it , '' said Nick . 
Mademoiselle made the faintest of moues . 
Auguste is very wild , as you say , '' she continued , addressing me , he is a great care to my father . 
He intrigues , you know , he wishes Louisiane to become French once more , as we all do . 
But I should not say this , Monsieur , '' she added in a startled tone . 
You will not tell ? No , I know you will not . 
We do not like the Spaniards . 
They killed my grandfather when they came to take the province . 
And once , the Governor general Miro sent for my father and declared he would put Auguste in prison if he did not behave himself . 
But I have forgotten the miniature . 
'' A comprehensive programme , indeed , '' said Nick . 
My father has gone back to New Orleans , '' she said , to get the miniature from Auguste . 
He took it from me , Monsieur . 
'' She raised her head a little proudly . 
If my brother had asked it , I might have given it to him , though I treasured it . 
But Auguste is so impulsive . 
My uncle told my father , who is very angry . 
He will punish Auguste severely , and I do not like to have him punished . 
Oh , I wish I had the miniature . 
'' Your wish is granted , Mademoiselle , '' I answered , drawing the case from my pocket and handing it to her . 
She took it , staring at me with eyes wide with wonder , and then she opened it mechanically . 
You found it ? Where ? How , Monsieur ? '' At Madame Bouvet's , the house where we stayed . 
'' Oh , '' she said with a sigh of relief , he must have dropped it . 
It is there where he meets his associates , where they talk of the French Louisiane . 
'' Again I felt Nick pinching me , and I gave a sigh of relief . 
Mademoiselle was about to continue , but I interrupted her . 
How long will your father be in New Orleans , Mademoiselle ? '' I asked . 
Until he finds Auguste , '' she answered . 
It may be days , but he will stay , for he is very angry . 
But will you not come into the house , Messieurs , and be presented to my mother ? '' she asked . 
I have been very inhospitable , '' she added with a glance at Nick . 
We followed her through winding paths bordered by shrubs and flowers , and presently came to a low house surrounded by a wide , cool gallery , and shaded by spreading trees . 
Behind it were clustered the kitchens and quarters of the house servants . 
Mademoiselle , picking up her dress , ran up the steps ahead of us and turned to the left in the hall into a darkened parlor . 
It was a room of more distinction than I had seen since I had been in Charlestown , and reflected the solidity of its owners . 
If you will be so kind as to wait here , Messieurs , '' said Mademoiselle , I will call my mother . 
'' And she left us . 
I sat down , rather uncomfortably , but Nick took a stand and stood staring down at me with folded arms . 
How I have undervalued you , Davy , '' he said . 
I am not proud of it , '' I answered shortly . 
What the deuce is to do now ! '' he asked . 
I cannot linger here , '' I answered I have business with Monsieur de Saint Gre , and I must go back to New Orleans at once . 
'' Then I will wait for you , '' said Nick . 
Davy , I have met my fate . 
'' I laughed in spite of myself . 
It seems to me that I have heard that remark before , '' I answered . 
He had not time to protest , for we heard footsteps in the hall , and Mademoiselle entered , leading an older lady by the hand . 
Her hair , tinged with gray , was crowned by a lace cap . 
Madame , '' I said , bowing and coming forward , I am David Ritchie , from Kentucky , and this is my cousin , Mr. Temple , of Charlestown . 
Monsieur Gratiot and Colonel Chouteau , of St . 
Louis , have been kind enough to give us letters to Monsieur de Saint Gre . 
'' And I handed her one of the letters which I had ready . 
You are very welcome , Messieurs , '' she answered , with the same delightful accent which her daughter had used , and you are especially welcome from such a source . 
The friends of Colonel Chouteau and of Monsieur Gratiot are our friends . 
You will remain with us , I hope , Messieurs , '' she continued . 
Monsieur de Saint Gre will return in a few days at best . 
'' By your leave , Madame , I will go to New Orleans at once and try to find Monsieur , '' I said , for I have business with him . 
'' You will return with him , I hope , '' said Madame . 
And Mr. Temple will remain ? '' she asked , with a questioning look at Nick . 
With the greatest pleasure in the world , Madame , '' he answered , and there was no mistaking his sincerity . 
As he spoke , Mademoiselle turned her back on him . 
I would not wait for dinner , but pausing only for a sip of cool Madeira and some other refreshment , I made my farewells to the ladies . 
As I started out of the door to find Benjy , who had been waiting for more than an hour , Mademoiselle gave me a neatly folded note . 
You will be so kind as to present that to my father , Monsieur , '' she said . 
CHAPTER XIII MONSIEUR AUGUSTE ENTRAPPED It may be well to declare here and now that I do not intend to burden this story with the business which had brought me to New Orleans . 
While in the city during the next few days I met a young gentleman named Daniel Clark , a nephew of that Mr. Clark of whom I have spoken . 
Mr. Wharton had not believed , nor had I flattered myself that I should be able to bring such a fox as General Wilkinson to earth . 
Abundant circumstantial evidence I obtained Wilkinson's intimacy with Miro was well known , and I likewise learned that a cipher existed between them . 
The permit to trade given by Miro to Wilkinson was made no secret of . 
I have to thank Monsieur Philippe de St . 
Gre for a great deal . 
And I take this opportunity to set down the fact that I have rarely met a more remarkable man . 
The esplanade on the levee was deserted , the willow trees had a mournful look , while the bright tiles of yesterday seemed to have faded to a sombre tone . 
I spied Xavier on a bench smoking with some friends of his . 
He make much rain soon , Michie , '' he cried . 
You hev good time , I hope , Michie . 
The same gardienne came to my knock , and in answer to her shrill cry a negro lad appeared to hold my horse . 
And there stood the gentleman whom we had met hurrying to town in the morning . 
A gentleman he was , every inch of him . 
He was dressed in black silk , his hair in a cue , and drawn away from a face of remarkable features . 
He had a high bridged nose , a black eye that held an inquiring sternness , a chin indented , and a receding forehead . 
In brief , he might have stood for one of those persons of birth and ability who become prime ministers of France . 
Gre ? '' I said . 
He bowed gracefully , but with a tinge of condescension . 
I was awed , and considering the relations which I had already had with his family , I must admit that I was somewhat frightened . 
Monsieur , '' I said , I bring letters to you from Monsieur Gratiot and Colonel Chouteau of St . 
One of these I had the honor to deliver to Madame de St . 
Gre , and here is the other . 
'' Ah , '' he said , with another keen glance , I met you this morning , did I not ? '' You did , Monsieur . 
'' He broke the seal , and , going to the edge of the gallery , held the letter to the light . 
As he read a peal of thunder broke distantly , the rain came down in a flood . 
Then he folded the paper carefully and turned to me again . 
You will make my house your home , Mr. Ritchie , he said recommended from such a source , I will do all I can to serve you . 
But where is this Mr. Temple of whom the letter speaks ? His family in Charlestown is known to me by repute . 
'' By Madame de St . 
Gre's invitation he remained at Les Iles , '' I answered , speaking above the roar of the rain . 
I was just going to the table , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre we will talk as we eat . 
A deafening crash followed as we took our seats , while Monsieur de St . 
Gre's man lighted four candles of green myrtle berry wax . 
Monsieur Gratiot's letter speaks vaguely of politics , Mr. Ritchie , '' began Monsieur de St . 
He spoke English perfectly , save for an occasional harsh aspiration which I cannot imitate . 
Directing his man to fetch a certain kind of Madeira , he turned to me with a look of polite inquiry which was scarcely reassuring . 
And I reflected , the caution with which I had been endowed coming uppermost , that the man might have changed since Monsieur Gratiot had seen him . 
He had , moreover , the air of a man who gives a forced attention , which seemed to me the natural consequences of the recent actions of his son . 
I fear that I am intruding upon your affairs , Monsieur , '' I answered . 
Not at all , sir , '' he said politely . 
I have met that charming gentleman , Mr. Wilkinson , who came here to brush away the causes of dissension , and cement a friendship between Kentucky and Louisiana . 
'' It was most fortunate that the note of irony did not escape me . 
Where governments failed , General Wilkinson succeeded , '' I answered dryly . 
Gre glanced at me , and an enigmatical smile spread over his face . 
I knew then that the ice was cracked between us . 
Yet he was too much a man of the world not to make one more tentative remark . 
A union between Kentucky and Louisiana would be a resistless force in the world , Mr. Ritchie , '' he said . 
It was Nebuchadnezzar who dreamed of a composite image , Monsieur , '' I answered and Mr. Wilkinson forgets one thing , that Kentucky is a part of the United States . 
'' At that Monsieur St . 
He became a different man , though he lost none of his dignity . 
'' It was my turn to laugh . 
I was born a Frenchman , I shall die a Frenchman , and I shall never be happy until Louisiana is French once more . 
My great grandfather , a brother of the Marquis de St . 
Gre of that time , and a wild blade enough , came out with D'Iberville . 
His son , my grandfather , was the Commissary general of the colony under the Marquis de Vaudreuil . 
It was my father's wish that I should return , and I did not disobey him . 
I had scarcely come back , Monsieur , when that abominable secret bargain of Louis the Fifteenth became known , ceding Louisiana to Spain . 
You may have heard of the revolution which followed here . 
It was a mild affair , and the remembrance of it makes me smile to this day , though with bitterness . 
I was five and twenty , hot headed , and French . 
Que voulez vous ? '' and Monsieur de St . 
O'Reilly , the famous Spanish general , came with his men of war . 
I can hear the chains running . 
The ships were in line of battle before the town , their flying bridges swung to the levee , and they loomed above us like towering fortresses . 
It was dark , Monsieur , such as this afternoon , and we poor French colonists stood huddled in the open space below , waiting for we knew not what . 
'' He paused , and I started , for the picture he drew had carried me out of myself . 
On the th of August , , well I remember the day , '' Monsieur de St . 
Gre continued , the Spanish troops landed late in the afternoon , twenty six hundred strong , the artillery rumbling over the bridges , the horses wheeling and rearing . 
And they drew up as in line of battle in the Place d'Armes , dragoons , fusileros de montanas , light and heavy infantry . 
Where were our white cockades then ? Fifty guns shook the town , the great O'Reilly limped ashore through the smoke , and Louisiana was lost to France . 
We had a cowardly governor , Monsieur , whose name is written in the annals of the province in letters of shame . 
He betrayed Monsieur de St . 
Gre and others into O'Reilly's hands , and when my father was cast into prison he was seized with such a fit of anger that he died . 
Without , under the eaves of the gallery , a white rain fell , and a steaming moisture arose from the court yard . 
What I have told you , Monsieur , is common knowledge . 
Louisiana has been Spanish for twenty years . 
I no longer wear the white cockade , for I am older now . 
I have ceased to intrigue , but thank God I have not ceased to pray . 
Perhaps who knows ? perhaps I may live to see again the lily of France stirred by the river breeze . 
'' He fell into a revery , his fine head bent a little , but presently aroused himself and eyed me curiously . 
I need not say that I felt a strange liking for Monsieur de St . 
Gre himself poured me a cup from the dainty , quaintly wrought Louis Quinze coffeepot , graven with the coat of arms of his family . 
That he had little sympathy with government by the people was natural , for he was a Creole , and behind that a member of an order which detested republics . 
When we were got beyond these topics the rain had ceased , the night had fallen , the green candles had burned low . 
And suddenly , as he spoke of Les Isles , I remembered the note Mademoiselle had given me for him , and I apologized for my forgetfulness . 
He read it , and dropped it with an exclamation . 
My daughter tells me that you have returned to her a miniature which she lost , Monsieur , '' he said . 
I had that pleasure , '' I answered . 
And that you found this miniature at Madame Bouvet's . 
Was this the case ? '' And he stared hard at me . 
I nodded , but for the life of me I could not speak . 
It seemed an outrage to lie to such a man . 
He did not answer , but sat lost in thought , drumming with his fingers on the tables until the noise of the slamming of a door aroused him to a listening posture . 
The sound of subdued voices came from the archway below us , and one of these , from an occasional excited and feminine note , I thought to be the gardienne's . 
Gre thrust back his chair , and in three strides was at the edge of the gallery . 
Auguste ! '' he cried . 
Auguste , come up to me at once , '' he said in French . 
Another silence , then something that sounded like Sapristi ! '' a groan from the gardienne , and a step was heard on the stairway . 
My own discomfort increased , and I would have given much to be in any other place in the world . 
Auguste had arrived at the head of the steps but was apparently unable to get any farther . 
Bon soir , mon pere , '' he said . 
Like a dutiful son , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre , you heard I was in town , and called to pay your respects , I am sure . 
I am delighted to find you . 
In fact , I came to town for that purpose . 
'' Lisette '' began Auguste . 
Thought that I did not wish to be disturbed , no doubt , '' said his father . 
'' Monsieur Auguste's slim figure appeared in the doorway . 
He caught sight of me , halted , backed , and stood staring with widened eyes . 
The candles threw their light across his shoulder on the face of the elder Monsieur de St . 
Auguste was a replica of his father , with the features minimized to regularity and the brow narrowed . 
The complexion of the one was a clear saffron , while the boy's skin was mottled , and he was not twenty . 
What is the matter ? '' said Monsieur de St . 
You you have a visitor ! '' stammered Auguste , with a tact that savored of practice . 
Yet there was a sorry difference between this and the haughty young patrician who had sold me the miniature . 
Who brings me good news , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Mr. Ritchie , allow me to introduce my son , Auguste . 
'' I felt Monsieur de St . 
Gre's eyes on me as I bowed , and I began to think I was in near as great a predicament as Auguste . 
Gre was managing the matter with infinite wisdom . 
Sit down , my son , '' he said you have no doubt been staying with your uncle . 
'' Auguste sat down , still staring . 
Does your aunt's health mend ? '' She is better to night , father , '' said the son , in English which might have been improved . 
I am glad of it , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre , taking a chair . 
Andre , fill the glasses . 
'' The silent , linen clad mulatto poured out the Madeira , shot a look at Auguste , and retired softly . 
There has been a heavy rain , Monsieur , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre to me , but I think the air is not yet cleared . 
'' Auguste's thin fingers were clutching the chair . 
I have never beheld Mademoiselle Helene de St . 
Gre , for my cousin , the Marquis , was not married when I left France . 
He was a captain in a regiment of his Majesty's Mousquetaires , since abolished . 
But I am sure that the likeness of Mademoiselle must be a true one , for it has the stamp of a remarkable personality , though Helene can be only eighteen . 
Women , with us , mature quickly , Monsieur . 
And this portrait tallies with what I have heard of her character . 
You no doubt observed the face , Monsieur , that of a true aristocrat . 
But I was speaking of her character . 
When she was twelve , she said something to a cardinal for which her mother made her keep her room a whole day . 
For Mademoiselle would not retract , and , pardieu , I believe his Eminence was wrong . 
The Marquise is afraid of her . 
And when first Helene was presented formally she made such a witty retort to the Queen's sally that her Majesty insisted upon her coming to court . 
On every New Year's day I have always sent a present of coffee and perique to my cousin the Marquis , and it is Mademoiselle who writes to thank us . 
Parole d'honneur , her letters make me see again the people amongst whom she moves , the dukes and duchesses , the cardinals , bishops , and generals . 
She draws them to the life , Monsieur , with a touch that makes them all ridiculous . 
His Majesty does not escape . 
God forgive him , he is indeed an amiable , weak person for calling a States General . 
And the Queen , a frivolous lady , but true to those whom she loves , and beginning now to realize the perils of the situation . 
He is so much in love with the portrait , Monsieur , that he loses it . 
'' Loses it ! '' cried Auguste . 
Precisely , '' said his father , dryly , for Mr. Ritchie tells me he found it at Madame Bouvet's , was it not , Monsieur ? '' Auguste looked at me . 
Mille diables ! '' he said , and sat down again heavily . 
Mr. Ritchie has returned it to your sister , a service which puts him heavily in our debt , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Now , sir , '' he added to me , rising , you have had a tiresome day . 
I will show you to your room , and in the morning we will begin our investigations . 
A great four poster bedstead was in one corner , and a polished mahogany dresser in the other . 
We have saved some of our family furniture from the fire , Mr. Ritchie , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre that bed was brought from Paris by my father forty years ago . 
I hope you will rest well . 
'' He set the candle on the table , and as he bowed there was a trace of an enigmatical smile about his mouth . 
How much he knew of Auguste's transaction I could not fathom , but the matter and the scarcely creditab e part I had played in it kept me awake far into the night . 
I was just falling into a troubled sleep when a footstep on the gallery startled me back to consciousness . 
It was followed by a light tap on the door . 
Monsieur Reetchie , '' said a voice . 
He stood peering at me as I lay under the mosquito bar . 
How is it I can thank you , Monsieur ! '' he exclaimed in a whisper . 
By saying nothing , Monsieur , '' I answered . 
You are noble , you are generous , and and one day I will give you the money back , '' he added with a burst of magniloquence . 
You have behave very well , Monsieur , and I mek you my friend . 
Gre , entirely at your service , Monsieur . 
'' He made a sweeping bow that might have been impressive save for the nightrail , and sought my hand , which he grasped in a fold of the mosquito bar . 
I am overcome , Monsieur , '' I said . 
Monsieur Reetchie , you are my friend , my intimate'' . 
I go to tell you one leetle secret . 
I find that I can repose confidence in you . 
My father does not understan' me , you saw , Monsieur , he does not appreciate that is the Engleesh . 
Mon Dieu , you saw it this night . 
I , who spik to you , am made for a courtier , a noble . 
La Louisiane she is not so big enough for me . 
'' He lowered his voice still further , and bent nearer to me . 
Monsieur , I run away to France . 
My cousin the Marquis will help me . 
You will hear of Auguste de St . 
Gre at Versailles , at Trianon , at Chantilly , and peut etre '' It is a worthy campaign , Monsieur , '' I interrupted . 
A distant sound broke the stillness , and Auguste was near to dropping the candle on me . 
Adieu , Monsieur , '' he whispered milles tonneres , I have done one extraordinaire foolish thing when I am come to this house to night . 
'' And he disappeared , shading his candle , as he had come . 
CHAPTER XIV RETRIBUTION During the next two days I had more evidence of Monsieur de St . 
Gre's ability , and , thanks to his conduct of my campaign , not the least suspicion of my mission to New Orleans got abroad . 
Certain gentlemen were asked to dine , we called on others , and met still others casually in their haunts of business or pleasure . 
The rest of the burrow is the same , Mr. Ritchie , until it comes to the light again . 
'' And the fox has crawled out of the other end , '' I said . 
Precisely , '' he answered , laughing in short , if you were to remain in New Orleans until New Year's , you would not learn a whit more . 
To morrow morning I have a little business of my own to transact , and we shall get to Les Iles in time for dinner . 
No , don't thank me , '' he protested there's a certain rough honesty and earnestness ingrained in you which I like . 
And besides , '' he added , smiling , you are poor indeed at thanking , Mr. Ritchie . 
You could never do it gracefully . 
But if ever I were in trouble , I believe that I might safely call on you . 
Gre and I were walking our horses in the shady road behind the levee . 
Presently he ceased to talk , and rode in silence for many minutes . 
And then he turned upon me suddenly . 
Mr. Ritchie , '' he said , you have seen my son . 
It may be that in him I am paying the price of my sins . 
I have done everything to set him straight , but in vain . 
Monsieur , every son of the St . 
Gre's has awakened sooner or later to a sense of what becomes him . 
'' This peculiar pride of race would have amused me in another man . 
I found myself listening to Monsieur de St . 
Gre with gravity , and I did not dare to reply that I had had evidence of Mademoiselle's aptness of retort . 
She has been my companion since she was a child , Monsieur . 
She has disobeyed me , flaunted me , nursed me in illness , championed me behind my back . 
I have a little book which I have kept of her sayings and doings , which may interest you , Monsieur . 
I will show it you . 
'' This indeed was a new side of Monsieur de St . 
Gre , and I reflected rather ruefully upon the unvarnished truth of what Mr. Wharton had told me , ay , and what Colonel Clark had emphasized long before . 
It was my fate never to be treated as a young man . 
It struck me that Monsieur de St . 
Gre had never even considered me in the light of a possible suitor for his daughter's hand . 
I should be delighted to see them , Monsieur , '' I answered . 
Would you ? '' he exclaimed , his face lighting up as he glanced at me . 
Alas , Madame de St . 
Gre and I have promised to go to our neighbors' , Monsieur and Madame Bertrand's , for to night . 
But , to morrow , if you have leisure , we shall look at it together . 
And not a word of this to my daughter , Monsieur , '' he added apprehensively she would never forgive me . 
She dislikes my talking of her , but at times I cannot help it . 
You will not tell her ? '' Indeed I shall not , Monsieur , '' I answered . 
It is strange , '' he said abruptly , it is strange that this gentleman and his wife should likewise have had letters to us from Monsieur Gratiot . 
Louis , and they were on their way to Paris . 
'' To Paris ? '' I cried what was their name ? '' He looked at me in surprise . 
Clive , '' he said . 
Clive ! '' I cried , leaning towards him in my saddle . 
Clive ! And what became of them ? '' This time he gave me one of his searching looks , and it was not unmixed with astonishment . 
Monsieur ? '' he demanded . 
Did you know them ? '' I must have shown that I was strangely agitated . 
For the moment I could not answer . 
Monsieur Gratiot himself spoke of them to me , '' I said , after a little he said they were an interesting couple . 
'' Pardieu ! '' exclaimed Monsieur de St . 
Gre , he put it mildly . 
'' He gave me another look . 
There was something about them , Monsieur , which I could not fathom . 
Why were they drifting ? They were people of quality who had seen the world , who were by no means paupers , who had no cause to travel save a certain restlessness . 
And while they were awaiting the sailing of the packet for France they came to our house the old one in the Rue Bourbon that was burned . 
I would not speak ill of the dead , but Mr. Clive I did not like . 
He fell sick of the fever in my house , and it was there that Antoinette and Madame de St . 
Gre took turns with his wife in watching at his bedside . 
I could do nothing with Antoinette , Monsieur , and she would not listen to my entreaties , my prayers , my commands . 
We buried the poor fellow in the alien ground , for he did not die in the Church , and after that my daughter clung to Mrs. Clive . 
She would not let her go , and the packet sailed without her . 
I have never seen such affection . 
I may say , '' he added quickly , that Madame de St . 
Gre and I share in it , for Mrs. Clive is a lovable woman and a strong character . 
And into the great sorrow that lies behind her life , we have never probed . 
'' And she is with you now , Monsieur ? '' I asked . 
She lives with us , Monsieur , '' he answered simply , and I hope for always . 
No , '' he said quickly , it is not charity , she has something of her own . 
We love her , and she is the best of companions for my daughter . 
For the rest , Monsieur , she seems benumbed , with no desire to go back or to go farther . 
'' An entrance drive to the plantation of Les Iles , unknown to Nick and me , led off from the main road like a green tunnel arched out of the forest . 
My feelings as we entered this may be imagined , for I was suddenly confronted with the situation which I had dreaded since my meeting with Nick at Jonesboro . 
I could scarcely allow myself even the faint hope that Mrs. Clive might not prove to be Mrs. Temple after all . 
Whilst I was in this agony of doubt and indecision , the drive suddenly came out on a shaded lawn dotted with flowering bushes . 
There was the house with its gallery , its curved dormer roof and its belvedere and a white , girlish figure flitted down the steps . 
It was Mademoiselle Antoinette , and no sooner had her father dismounted than she threw herself into his arms . 
Presently she turned up to him a face on which was written something which he could not understand . 
His own stronger features reflected a vague disquiet . 
What is it , ma cherie ? '' What was it indeed ? Something was in her eyes which bore a message and presentiment to me . 
She dropped them , fastening in the lapel of his coat a flaunting red flower set against a shining leaf , and there was a gentle , joyous subterfuge in her answer . 
Thou pardoned Auguste , as I commanded ? '' she said . 
They were speaking in the familiar French . 
Ha , diable ! is it that which disquiets thee ? '' said her father . 
We will not speak of Auguste . 
Dost thou know Monsieur Ritchie , 'Toinette ? '' She disengaged herself and dropped me a courtesy , her eyes seeking the ground . 
But she said not a word . 
At that instant Madame de St . 
Gre herself appeared on the gallery , followed by Nick , who came down the steps with a careless self confidence to greet the master . 
Indeed , a stranger might have thought that Mr. Temple was the host , and I saw Antoinette watching him furtively with a gleam of amusement in her eyes . 
I am delighted to see you at last , Monsieur , '' said my cousin . 
I am Nicholas Temple , and I have been your guest for three days . 
'' Had Monsieur de St . 
Gre been other than the soul of hospitality , it would have been impossible not to welcome such a guest . 
Our host had , in common with his daughter , a sense of humor . 
There was a quizzical expression on his fine face as he replied , with the barest glance at Mademoiselle Antoinette I trust you have been well entertained , Mr. Temple . 
My daughter has been accustomed only to the society of her brother and cousins . 
'' Faith , I should not have supposed it , '' said Nick , instantly , a remark which caused the color to flush deeply into Mademoiselle's face . 
I looked to see Monsieur de St . 
He tried , indeed , to be grave , but smiled irresistibly as he mounted the steps to greet his wife , who stood demurely awaiting his caress . 
And in this interval Mademoiselle shot at Nick a swift and withering look as she passed him . 
Messieurs , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre , turning to us , dinner will soon be ready if you will be so good as to pardon me until then . 
'' Nick followed Mademoiselle with his eyes until she had disappeared beyond the hall . 
She did not so much as turn . 
Then he took me by the arm and led me to a bench under a magnolia a little distance away , where he seated himself , and looked up at me despairingly . 
Behold , '' said he , what was once your friend and cousin , your counsellor , sage , and guardian . 
Behold the clay which conducted you hither , with the heart neatly but painfully extracted . 
Look upon a woman's work , Davy , and shun the sex . 
I tell you it is better to go blindfold through life , to have pardon me your own blunt features , than to be reduced to such a pitiable state . 
I'll warrant you I'll not come to life . 
'' You appear to have suffered somewhat , '' I said , forgetting for the moment in my laughter the thing that weighed upon my mind . 
Suffered ! '' he cried I have been tossed high in the azure that I might sink the farther into the depths . 
I have been put in a grave , the earth stamped down , resurrected , and flung into the dust heap . 
I have been taken up to the gate of heaven and dropped a hundred and fifty years through darkness . 
Since I have seen you I have been the round of all the bright places and all the bottomless pits in the firmament . 
'' It seems to have made you literary , '' I remarked judicially . 
I burn up twenty times a day , '' he continued , with a wave of the hand to express the completeness of the process there is nothing left . 
I see her , I speak to her , and I burn up . 
'' Have you had many tete a tetes ? '' I asked . 
No priest in Louisiana would marry us . 
I see her at dinner , at supper . 
Sometimes we sew on the gallery , '' he went on , but I give you my oath that I have not had one word with her alone . 
'' An oath is not necessary , '' I said . 
But you seem to have made some progress nevertheless . 
'' Do you call that progress ? '' he demanded . 
It is surely not retrogression . 
'' God knows what it is , '' said Nick , helplessly , but it's got to stop . 
I have sent her an ultimatum . 
'' A what ? '' A summons . 
Her father and mother are going to the Bertrands' to night , and I have written her a note to meet me in the garden . 
And you , '' he cried , rising and slapping me between the shoulders , you are to keep watch , like the dear , careful , canny , sly rascal you are . 
'' And and has she accepted ? '' I inquired . 
That's the deuce of it , '' said he she has not . 
But I think she'll come . 
'' I stood for a moment regarding him . 
And you really love Mademoiselle Antoinette ? '' I asked . 
Have I not exhausted the language ? '' he answered . 
If what I have been through is not love , then may the Lord shield me from the real disease . 
'' It may have been merely a light case of tropical enthusiasm , let us say . 
I have seen others , a little milder because the air was more temperate . 
'' Tropical balderdash , '' he exploded . 
If you are not the most exasperating , unfeeling man alive '' I merely wanted to know if you wished to marry Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre , '' I interrupted . 
He gave me a look of infinite tolerance . 
Have I not made it plain that I cannot live without her ? '' he said if not , I will go over it all again . 
'' That will not be necessary , '' I said hastily . 
The trouble may be , '' he continued , that they have already made one of their matrimonial contracts with a Granpre , a Beausejour , a Bernard . 
Gre is a very sensible man , '' I answered . 
He loves his daughter , and I doubt if he would force her to marry against her will . 
He had not spoken to me of his mother save that once , and I had no means of knowing whether his feeling for the girl might not soften his anger against her . 
I have never lacked the courage to come to the point , but there was still the chance that I might be mistaken in this after all . 
Gre appeared on the gallery . 
Come , gentlemen , '' he cried dinner awaits us . 
'' The dining room at Les Iles was at the corner of the house , and its windows looked out on the gallery , which was shaded at that place by dense foliage . 
The room , like others in the house , seemed to reflect the decorous character of its owner . 
Gre's , indifferently painted , but rigorous and respectable , relieved the whiteness of the wall . 
They were the Commissary general and his wife . 
The lattices were closed on one side , and in the deep amber light the family silver shone but dimly . 
But Nick was one to carry by storm a position which another might wait to reconnoitre . 
The first sensation of our host was no doubt astonishment , but he was soon laughing over a vivid account of our adventures on the keel boat . 
Nick's imitation of Xavier , and his description of Benjy's terrors after the storm , were so perfect that I laughed quite as heartily and Madame de St . 
Gre wiped her eyes and repeated continually , Quel drole monsieur ! it is thus he has entertained us since thou departed , Philippe . 
'' As for Mademoiselle , I began to think that Nick was not far wrong in his diagnosis . 
Training may have had something to do with it . 
She would not laugh , not she , but once or twice she raised her napkin to her face and coughed slightly . 
For the rest , she sat demurely , with her eyes on her plate , a model of propriety . 
Nick's sufferings became more comprehensible . 
To give the devil his due , Nick had an innate tact which told him when to stop , and perhaps at this time Mademoiselle's superciliousness made him subside the more quickly . 
Gre had explained to me the horrors of the indigo pest and the futility of sugar raising , he turned to his daughter . 
'Toinette , where is Madame Clive ? '' he asked . 
The girl looked up , startled into life and interest at once . 
And suddenly she became worse . 
Gre turned with concern to his wife . 
I do not know what it is , Philippe , '' said that lady it seems to be mental . 
The loss of her husband weighs upon her , poor lady . 
But this is worse than ever , and she will lie for hours with her face turned to the wall , and not even Antoinette can arouse her . 
'' I have always been able to comfort her before , '' said Antoinette , with a catch in her voice . 
I took little account of what was said after that , my only notion being to think the problem out for myself , and alone . 
As I was going to my room Nick stopped me . 
Come into the garden , Davy , '' he said . 
When I have had my siesta , '' I answered . 
I reached my room , bolted the door , and lay down on my back to think . 
Little was needed to convince me now that Mrs. Clive was Mrs. Temple , and thus the lady's relapse when she heard that her son was in the house was accounted for . 
Her wit might not account for it , for that had been cruel . 
A stillness crept into the afternoon like the stillness of night . 
The wide house was darkened and silent , and without a sunlight washed with gold filtered through the leaves . 
There was a drowsy hum of bees , and in the distance the occasional languishing note of a bird singing what must have been a cradle song . 
My mind wandered , and shirked the task that was set to it . 
In that event the disclosure of his mother's identity would be inevitable . 
An hour passed , and it became more and more evident to me that I must see and talk with Mrs. Temple . 
Mr. Ritchie assures Mrs. Clive that he makes this request in all friendliness . 
'' I lighted a candle , folded the note and sealed it , addressed it to Mrs. Clive , and opening the latticed door I stepped out . 
One of these figures was Benjy , and he was taking his siesta . 
I descended quietly from the gallery , and making my way to him , touched him on the shoulder . 
He awoke and stared at me with white eyes . 
Marse Dave ! '' he cried . 
Hush , '' I answered , and follow me . 
'' He came after me , wondering , a little way into the grove , where I stopped . 
You talk to them ? '' Shucks , no , Marse Dave , '' he replied with a fine scorn , I ain't no hand at dat ar nigger French . 
But I knows some on 'em , and right well too . 
'' How ? '' I demanded curiously . 
Benjy looked down sheepishly at his feet . 
He was standing pigeon toed . 
I done c'ressed some on 'em , Marse Dave , '' he said at length , and there was a note of triumph in his voice . 
You did what ? '' I asked . 
I done kissed one of dem yaller gals , Marse Dave . 
Yass'r , I done kissed M'lisse . 
'' Do you think Melisse would do something for you if you asked her ? '' I inquired . 
Marse Dave '' he began reproachfully . 
He began that peculiar , sympathetic laugh of the negro , which catches and doubles on itself , and I imagined that a new admiration for me dawned on his face . 
Yass'r , yass , Marse Dave , I reckon M'lisse 'll git it to her 'thout any one tekin' notice . 
'' I bit my lips . 
If Mrs. Clive receives this within an hour , Melisse shall have one piastre , and you another . 
'' Benjy took the note , and departed nimbly to find Melisse , while I paced up and down in my uneasiness as to the outcome of the experiment . 
A quarter of an hour passed , half an hour , and then I saw Benjy coming through the trees . 
He stood before me , chuckling , and drew from his pocket a folded piece of paper . 
I gave him the two piastres , warned him if his master or any one inquired for me that I was taking a walk , and bade him begone . 
Then I opened the note . 
I will meet you at the bayou , at seven this evening . 
Take the path that leads through the garden . 
'' I read it with a catch of the breath , with a certainty that the happiness of many people depended upon what I should say at that meeting . 
There were two openings in the opposite hedge , the one through which Nick and I had come , and another . 
I took the second , and with little difficulty found the path of which the note had spoken . 
I know not how far I had walked , my head bent in thought , before I felt the ground teetering under my feet , and there was the bayou . 
It was a narrow lane of murky , impenetrable water , shaded now by the forest wall . 
On that side where I stood ancient oaks thrust their gnarled roots into the water , and these knees were bridged by treacherous platforms of moss . 
I sat down on a wide knee that seemed to be fashioned for the purpose , and reflected . 
I had much to think of , and for the rest the weird beauty of the place , with its changing colors as the sun fell , held me in fascination . 
When the blue vapor stole through the cypress swamp , my trained ear caught the faintest of warning sounds . 
I could not repress the exclamation that rose to my lips when she stood before me . 
I have changed somewhat , '' she began quite calmly I have changed since you were at Temple Bow . 
'' I stood staring at her , at a loss to know whether by these words she sought to gain an advantage . 
I knew not whether to pity or to be angry , such a strange blending she seemed of former pride and arrogance and later suffering . 
There were the features of the beauty still , the eyes defiant , the lips scornful . 
For she had a new and remarkable beauty which puzzled and astonished me , a beauty in which maternity had no place . 
She stood facing me , undaunted , and I knew that she had come to fight for what was left her . 
I knew further that she was no mean antagonist . 
Will you kindly tell me to what circumstance I owe the honor of this summons , Mr. Ritchie ? '' she asked . 
You are a travelled person for one so young . 
I might almost say , '' she added with an indifferent laugh , that there is some method and purpose in your travels . 
'' Indeed , you do me wrong , Madame , '' I replied I am here by the merest chance . 
'' Again she laughed lightly , and stepping past me took her seat on the oak from which I had risen . 
I marvelled that this woman , with all her self possession , could be the same as she who had held her room , cowering , these four days past . 
Admiration for her courage mingled with my other feelings , and for the life of me I knew not where to begin . 
My experience with women of the world was , after all , distinctly limited . 
Mrs. Temple knew , apparently by intuition , the advantage she had gained , and she smiled . 
The Ritchies were always skilled in dealing with sinners , '' she began the first earl had the habit of hunting them like foxes , so it is said . 
I take it for granted that , before my sentence is pronounced , I shall have the pleasure of hearing my wrong doings in detail . 
I could not ask you to forego that satisfaction . 
'' You seem to know the characteristics of my family , Mrs. Temple , '' I answered . 
There is one trait of the Ritchies concerning which I ask your honest opinion . 
'' And what is that ? '' she said carelessly . 
I have always understood that they have spoken the truth . 
Is it not so ? '' She glanced at me curiously . 
I never knew your father to lie , '' she answered but after all he had few chances . 
'' Your intercourse with me at Temple Bow was quite as limited , '' I said . 
Ah , '' she interrupted quickly , you bear me that grudge . 
It is another trait of the Ritchies . 
'' I bear you no grudge , Madame , '' I replied . 
I asked you a question concerning the veracity of my family , and I beg that you will believe what I say . 
'' And what is this momentous statement ? '' she asked . 
I had hard work to keep my temper , but I knew that I must not lose it . 
I declare to you on my honor that my business in New Orleans in no way concerns you , and that I had not the slightest notion of finding you here . 
Will you believe that ? '' And what then ? '' she asked . 
I also declare to you that , since meeting your son , my chief anxiety has been lest he should run across you . 
'' You are very considerate of others , '' she said . 
Let us admit for the sake of argument that you come here by accident . 
'' It was the opening I had sought for , but despaired of getting . 
Then put yourself for a moment in my place , Madame , and give me credit for a little kindliness of feeling , and a sincere affection for your son . 
'' There was a new expression on her face , and the light of a supreme effort in her eyes . 
I give you credit at least for a logical mind , '' she answered . 
In spite of myself you have put me at the bar and seem to be conducting my trial . 
'' I do not see why there should be any rancor between us , '' I answered . 
It is true that I hated you at Temple Bow . 
When my father was killed and I was left a homeless orphan you had no pity for me , though your husband was my mother's brother . 
But you did me a good turn after all , for you drove me out into a world where I learned to rely upon myself . 
Furthermore , it was not in your nature to treat me well . 
'' Not in my nature ? '' she repeated . 
You were seeking happiness , as every one must in their own way . 
That happiness lay , apparently , with Mr. Riddle . 
'' Ah , '' she cried , with a catch of her breath , I thought you would be judging me . 
'' I am stating facts . 
Your son was a sufficient embarrassment in this matter , and I should have been an additional one . 
I blame you not , Mrs. Temple , for anything you have done to me , but I blame you for embittering Nick's life . 
'' And he ? '' she said . 
It seemed to me that I detected a faltering in her voice . 
I will hide nothing from you . 
He blames you , with what justice I leave you to decide . 
'' She did not answer this , but turned her head away towards the bayou . 
Nor could I determine what was in her mind . 
And now I ask you whether I have acted as your friend in begging you to meet me . 
'' She turned to me swiftly at that . 
I am at a loss to see how there can be friendship between us , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said . 
Very good then , Madame I am sorry , '' I answered . 
I have done all that is in my power , and now events will have to take their course . 
'' I had not gone two steps into the wood before I heard her voice calling my name . 
She had risen , and leaned with her hand against the oak . 
Does Nick know that you are here ? '' she cried . 
No , '' I answered shortly . 
Then I realized suddenly what I had failed to grasp before , she feared that I would pity her . 
David ! '' I started violently at the sound of my name , at the new note in her voice , at the change in the woman as I turned . 
And then before I realized what she had done she had come to me swiftly and laid her hand upon my arm . 
David , does he hate me ? '' All the hope remaining in her life was in that question , was in her face as she searched mine with a terrible scrutiny . 
And never had I known such an ordeal . 
It seemed as if I could not answer , and as I stood staring back at her a smile was forced to her lips . 
I will pay you one tribute , my friend , '' she said you are honest . 
'' But even as she spoke I saw her sway , and though I could not be sure it were not a dizziness in me , I caught her . 
There was the infinite calmness of resignation in her next speech . 
Tell me about him , '' she said . 
Were it not so I should have heard of her own sufferings , of her poor , hunted life from place to place , of countless nights made sleepless by the past . 
Pride indeed was left , but the fire had burned away the last vestige of selfishness . 
I sat down beside her , knowing full well that I should be judged by what I said . 
She listened , motionless , though something of what that narrative cost her I knew by the current of sympathy that ran now between us . 
She neither spoke , nor moved save for the rising and falling of her shoulders . 
The hardest thing I had to say I saved for the last , and I was near lacking the courage to continue . 
There is Mademoiselle Antoinette '' I began , and stopped , she turned on me so quickly and laid a hand on mine . 
Nick loves her ! '' she cried . 
You know it ! '' I exclaimed , wondering . 
Ah , David , '' she answered brokenly , I foresaw it from the first . 
I , too , love the girl . 
No human being has ever given me such care and such affection . 
She she is all that I have left . 
Must I give her up ? Have I not paid the price of my sins ? '' I did not answer , knowing that she saw the full cruelty of the predicament . 
What happiness remained to her now of a battered life stood squarely in the way of her son's happiness . 
That was the issue , and no advice or aid of mine could change it . 
There was another silence that seemed to me an eternity as I watched , a helpless witness , the struggle going on within her . 
At last she got to her feet , her face turned to the shadow . 
I will go , David , '' she said . 
Her voice was low and she spoke with a steadiness that alarmed me . 
'' Torn with pity , I thought again , but I could see no alternative . 
And then , suddenly , she was clinging to me , her courage gone , her breast shaken with sobs . 
Where shall I go ? '' she cried . 
God help me ! Are there no remote places where He will not seek me out ? I have tried them all , David . 
'' And quite as suddenly she disengaged herself , and looked at me strangely . 
You are well revenged for Temple Bow , '' she said . 
Hush , '' I answered , and held her , fearing I knew not what , you have not lacked courage . 
It is not so bad as you believe . 
I will devise a plan and help you . 
Have you money ? Yes , '' she answered , with a remnant of her former pride and I have an annuity paid now to Mr. Clark . 
'' Then listen to what I say , '' I answered . 
To night I will take you to New Orleans and hide you safely . 
And I swear to you , whether it be right or wrong , that I will use every endeavor to change Nick's feelings towards you . 
Come , '' I continued , leading her gently into the path , let us go while there is yet time . 
'' Stop , '' she said , and I halted fearfully . 
David Ritchie , you are a good man . 
I can make no amends to you , '' she did not finish . 
Feeling for the path in the blackness of the wood , I led her by the hand , and she followed me as trustfully as a child . 
Here we paused , breathless , and looked . 
The bench under the great tree was vacant , and the garden was empty . 
It was she who led the way through the hedge , who halted in the garden path at the sound of voices . 
She turned , but there was no time to flee , for the tall figure of a man came through the opposite hedge , followed by a lady . 
One was Nicholas Temple , the other , Mademoiselle de St . 
Mrs. Temple's face alone was in the shadow , and as I felt her hand trembling on my arm I summoned all my resources . 
It was Nick who spoke first . 
It is Davy ! '' he cried . 
Oh , the sly rascal ! And this is the promenade of which he left us word , the solitary meditation ! Speak up , man you are forgiven for deserting us . 
He turned , laughing , to Mademoiselle . 
But she stood with her lips parted and her hands dropped , staring at my companion . 
Then she took two steps forward and stopped with a cry . 
Mrs. Clive ! '' The woman beside me turned , and with a supreme courage raised her head and faced the girl . 
Yes , Antoinette , it is I , '' she answered . 
And then my eyes sought Nick , for Mrs. Temple had faced her son with a movement that was a challenge , yet with a look that questioned , yearned , appealed . 
He , too , stared , the laughter fading from his eyes , first astonishment , and then anger , growing in them , slowly , surely . 
recalling one by one the wrongs this woman had done him . 
She herself had taught him to brook no restraint , to follow impetuously his loves and hates , and endurance in these things was moulded in every line of his finely cut features . 
And when he spoke it was not to her , but to the girl at his side . 
Do you know who this is ? '' he said . 
Tell me , do you know this woman ? '' Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre did not answer him . 
She drew near , gently , to Mrs. Temple , whose head was bowed , whose agony I could only guess . 
Antoinette , '' she murmured , Antoinette ! '' For Nick had seized Antoinette by the hand , restraining her . 
You do not know what you are doing ? '' he cried angrily . 
Listen ! '' I had stood bereft of speech , watching the scene breathlessly . 
And now I would have spoken had not Mademoiselle astonished me by taking the lead . 
I have thought since that I might have pieced together this much of her character . 
Her glance at Nick surprised him momentarily into silence . 
I know that she is my dearest friend , '' she said , that she came to us in misfortune , and that we love her and trust her . 
I do not know why she is here with Mr. Ritchie , but I am sure it is for some good reason . 
'' She laid a hand on Mrs. Temple's shoulder . 
Mrs. Clive , won't you speak to me ? '' My God , Antoinette , listen ! '' cried Nick Mrs. Clive is not her name . 
I know her , David knows her . 
An adventuress ! '' she repeated , her hand dropping , oh , I do not believe it . 
'' You shall believe it , '' said Nick , fiercely . 
Her name is not Clive . 
Ask David what her name is . 
'' Antoinette's lips moved , but she shirked the question . 
And Nick seized me roughly . 
Tell her , '' he said , tell her ! My God , how can I do it ? Tell her , David . 
Suddenly she raised her head , not proudly , but with a dignity seemingly conferred by years of sorrow and of suffering . 
Her tones were even , bereft of every vestige of hope . 
Antoinette , I have deceived you , though as God is my witness , I thought no harm could come of it . 
I deluded myself into believing that I had found friends and a refuge at last . 
'' Mrs. Temple ! '' The girl repeated the name sorrowfully , but perplexedly , not grasping its full significance . 
She is my mother , '' said Nick , with a bitterness I had not thought in him , she is my mother , or I would curse her . 
For she has ruined my life and brought shame on a good name . 
'' He paused , his breath catching for very anger . 
Mrs. Temple hid her face in her hands , while the girl shrank back in terror . 
I grasped him by the arm . 
Have you no compassion ? '' I cried . 
But Mrs. Temple interrupted me . 
He has the right , '' she faltered it is my just punishment . 
'' He tore himself away , and took a step to her . 
Where is Riddle ? '' he cried . 
As God lives , I will kill him without mercy ! '' His mother lifted her head again . 
God has judged him , '' she said quietly he is beyond your vengeance he is dead . 
'' A sob shook her , but she conquered it with a marvellous courage . 
Harry Riddle loved me , he was kind to me , and he was a better man than John Temple . 
The fierceness of his anger seemed to go , leaving a more dangerous humor . 
Then I have been blessed with parents , '' he said . 
At that she swayed , but when I would have caught her she motioned me away and turned to Antoinette . 
Twice Mrs. Temple tried to speak . 
I was going away to night , '' she said at length , and you would never have seen or heard of me more . 
My nephew David Mr. Ritchie whom I treated cruelly as a boy , had pity on me . 
'' She faltered , and Nick would have spoken had not Antoinette herself stayed him with a gesture . 
I wish my son to know the little there is on my side . 
Yet God may not spare him the sorrow that brings pity . 
I I loved Harry Riddle as a girl . 
My father was ruined , and I was forced into marriage with John Temple for his possessions . 
He was selfish , overbearing , cruel unfaithful . 
During the years I lived with him he never once spoke kindly to me . 
I , too , grew wicked and selfish and heedless . 
My head was turned by admiration . 
Mr. Temple escaped to England in a man of war he left me without a line of warning , of farewell . 
I I have wandered over the earth , haunted by remorse , and I knew no moment of peace , of happiness , until you brought me here and sheltered and loved me . 
And even here I have had many sleepless hours . 
A hundred times I have summoned my courage to tell you , I could not . 
I am justly punished , Antoinette . 
'' She moved a little , timidly , towards the girl , who stood motionless , dazed by what she heard . 
She held out a hand , appealingly , and dropped it . 
Good by , my dear God will bless you for your kindness to an unfortunate outcast . 
She wept as I have never seen a woman weep . 
And then , before Nick or I knew what had happened , Antoinette had taken her swiftly in her arms and was murmuring in her ear You shall not go . 
You will live with me always . 
'' Presently the sobs ceased , and Mrs. Temple raised her face , slowly , wonderingly , as if she had not heard aright . 
And she tried gently to push the girl away . 
No , Antoinette , '' she said , I have done you harm enough . 
'' But the girl clung to her strongly , passionately . 
I do not care what you have done , '' she cried , you are good now . 
I know that you are good now . 
I will not cast you out . 
'' I stood looking at them , bewildered and astonished by Mademoiselle's loyalty . 
She seemed to have forgotten Nick , as had I , and then as I turned to him he came towards them . 
Almost roughly he took Antoinette by the arm . 
You do not know what you are saying , '' he cried . 
Come away , Antoinette , you do not know what she has done you cannot realize what she is . 
'' Antoinette shrank away from him , still clinging to Mrs. Temple . 
There was a fearless directness in her look which might have warned him . 
She is your mother , '' she said quietly . 
Freeing herself from the girl , Mrs. Temple took one step towards him , her arms held up . 
I had not thought that his hatred of her was deep enough to resist it . 
It was Antoinette whose intuition divined this ere he had turned away . 
You have chosen between me and her , '' he said and before we could get the poor lady to the seat under the oak , he had left the garden . 
In my perturbation I glanced at Antoinette , but there was no other sign in her face save of tenderness for Mrs. Temple . 
Mrs. Temple had mercifully fainted . 
As I crossed the lawn I saw two figures in the deep shadow beside the gallery , and I heard Nick's voice giving orders to Benjy to pack and saddle . 
When I reached the garden again the girl had loosed Mrs. Temple's gown , and was bending over her , murmuring in her ear . 
Nick had gone long before . 
The hardest task had been to convince the girl that Mrs. Temple might not stay . 
After that Antoinette had busied herself , with a silent fortitude I had not thought was in her , making ready for the lady's departure . 
I shall never forget her as she stood , a slender figure of sorrow , looking down at us , the tears glistening on her cheeks . 
And I could not resist the impulse to mount the steps once more . 
You were right , Antoinette , '' I whispered whatever happens , you will remember that I am your friend . 
And I will bring him back to you if I can . 
'' She pressed my hand , and turned and went slowly into the house . 
For indeed almost five years had gone by since the warm summer night when I rode into New Orleans with Mrs. Temple . 
And in all that time I had not so much as laid eyes on my cousin and dearest friend , her son . 
I have an instinct that this is not the place to relate in detail what occurred to me before leaving New Orleans . 
Dear Polly Ann ! She hugged me as though I were still the waif whom she had mothered , and wept over the little presents which I had brought the children . 
I was not a man to get into trouble on my own account . 
Louisville grew amazingly white frame houses were built , and even brick ones . 
And ere Kentucky became a State , in , I had gone as delegate to more than one of the Danville Conventions . 
Among the nations , as you know , a storm raged , and the great swells from that conflict threatened to set adrift and wreck the little republic but newly launched . 
The noise of the tramping of great armies across the Old World shook the New , and men in whom the love of fierce fighting was born were stirred to quarrel among themselves . 
Gre were among the lists . 
The hideous image of that strife was reflected amongst our own people . 
Budget after budget was hurried by the winds across the sea . 
, and thundered through the little villages of the Blue Grass country to the Falls . 
Citizen was the proper term now , Citizen General Wilkinson when that magnate came to town , resplendent in his brigadier's uniform . 
It was thought that Mr. Wilkinson would plot less were he in the army under the watchful eye of his superiors . 
Little they knew him ! Thus the Republic had a reward for adroitness , for treachery , and treason . 
The French parties were our parties the French issue , our issue . 
Under the patronage of that saint of American Jacobinism , Thomas Jefferson , a Jacobin society was organized in Philadelphia , special guardians of Liberty . 
Federalists were not guillotined in Kentucky in the summer of , but I might mention more than one who was shot . 
In spite of the Federalists , Louisville prospered , and incidentally I prospered in a mild way . 
Mr. Crede , behind whose store I still lived , was getting rich , and happened to have an affair of some importance in Philadelphia . 
Mr. Wharton was kind enough to recommend a young lawyer who had the following virtues he was neither handsome nor brilliant , and he wore snuff colored clothes . 
Mr. Wharton also did me the honor to say that I was cautious and painstaking , and had a habit of tiring out my adversary . 
Therefore , in the early summer of , I went to Philadelphia . 
At that time , travellers embarking on such a journey were prayed over as though they were going to Tartary . 
The great news of that day which concerns the world and incidentally this story was that Citizen Genet had landed at Charleston . 
Citizen Genet , Ambassador of the great Republic of France to the little Republic of America , landed at Charleston , acclaimed by thousands , and lost no time . 
Scarcely had he left that city ere American privateers had slipped out of Charleston harbor to prey upon the commerce of the hated Mistress of the Sea . 
Nay , the Citizen Ambassador would go into the halls of Congress and declare war himself if that faltering Mr. Washington refused his duty . 
Citizen Genet organized his legions as he went along , and threw tricolored cockades from the windows of his carriage . 
, Mr. Washington and his Federal Aristocrats trembled in their boots . 
This was a most fortunate circumstance for me , and in more ways than one . 
We stopped for a few days at Fort Harmar , where the Muskingum pays its tribute to the Ohio , built by the Federal government to hold the territory which Clark had won . 
And leaving that hospitable place we took up our journey once more in the very miracle time of the spring . 
On the yellow sandbars flocks of geese sat pluming in the sun , or rose at our approach to cast fleeting shadows on the water , their HONK HONKS echoing from the hills . 
The Captain himself had broached the subject one cool evening , early in the journey , as we sat over the fire in our little cabin . 
He had been telling me about Brandywine , but suddenly he turned to me with a kind of fierce gesture that was natural to the man . 
Ritchie , '' he said , you were in the Revolution yourself . 
He looked at me curiously . 
Well , '' he said , I ask you now . 
Who had guarded his secret from all men , who in the face of fierce opposition and intrigue had raised a little army to follow him they knew not where . 
We sat far into the night , the Captain listening as I had never seen a man listen . 
The Captain looked at me in astonishment . 
How long have you been away from Louisville ? '' he asked . 
It will be a year , '' I answered . 
Ah , '' said the Captain , I will tell you . 
It is more than a year since Clark wrote Genet , since the Ambassador bestowed on him a general's commission in the army of the French Republic . 
'' A general's commission ! '' I exclaimed . 
No , this is become France enough . 
He is raising in Kentucky and in the Cumberland country an army with a cursed , high sounding name . 
Some of his old Illinois scouts McChesney , whom you mentioned , for one have been collecting bear's meat and venison hams all winter . 
They are going to march on Louisiana and conquer it for the French Republic , for Liberty , Equality the Rights of Man , anything you like . 
'' On Louisiana ! '' I repeated what has the Federal government been doing ? '' The Captain winked at me and sat down . 
The Federal government is supine , a laughing stock so our friends the Jacobins say , who have been shouting at Mr. Easton's tavern all winter . 
Believe me , the Jacobins have not been idle , and there have been strange looking birds of French plumage dodging between the General's house at Clarksville and the Bear Grass . 
'' I was silent , the tears almost forcing themselves to my eyes at the pathetic sordidness of what I had heard . 
It can come to nothing , '' continued the Captain , in a changed voice . 
General Clark's mind is unhinged by disappointment . 
Mad Anthony is not a man to be caught sleeping , and he has already attended to a little expedition from the Cumberland . 
Mad Anthony loves the General , as we all do , and the Federal government is wiser than the Jacobins think . 
It may not be necessary to do anything . 
'' Captain Wendell paused , and looked at me fixedly . 
Ritchie , General Clark likes you , and you have never offended him . 
Why not go to his little house in Clarksville when you get to Louisville and talk to him plainly , as I know you can ? Perhaps you might have some influence . 
'' General Wayne of Revolutionary fame was then in command of that district . 
I shook my head sadly . 
I intend to go , '' I answered , but I will have no influence . 
'' CHAPTER II THE HOUSE ABOVE THE FALLS It was May day , and shortly after dawn we slipped into the quiet water which is banked up for many miles above the Falls . 
Before Mr. Easton's tavern Joe Handy , the fiddler , was reeling off a few bars of Hey , Betty Martin'' to the familiar crowd of loungers under the big poplar . 
It's Davy Ritchie ! '' shouted Joe , breaking off in the middle of the tune welcome home , Davy . 
Ye're jest in time for the barbecue on the island . 
'' And Cap Wendell ! Howdy , Cap ! '' drawled another , a huge , long haired , sallow , dirty fellow . 
But the Captain only glared . 
Barry tried to stop the beast in a gouging fight . 
Louisville was deserted , the tavern porch vacant but tacked on the logs beside the door was a printed bill which drew my curiosity . 
I stopped , caught by a familiar name in large type at the head of it . 
GEORGE R. CLARK , ESQUIRE , MAJOR GENERAL IN THE ARMIES OF FRANCE AND COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTIONARY LEGION ON THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER . 
By cricky , Davy , '' said he , I'm right glad ter see ye ag'in . 
Readin' the General's bill , are ye ? Tarnation , I reckon Washington and all his European fellers east of the mountains won't be able ter hold us back this time . 
I reckon we'll gallop over Louisiany in the face of all the Spaniards ever created . 
I've got some new whiskey I 'low will sink tallow . 
'' As he took me by the arm , a laughter and shouting came from the back room . 
It's some of them Frenchy fellers come over from Knob Licks . 
They're in it , '' and he pointed his thumb over his shoulder to the proclamation , and thar's one young American among 'em who's a t'arer . 
'' I drank a glass of Mr. Easton's whiskey , and asked about the General . 
He stays over thar to Clarksville pretty much , '' said Mr. Easton . 
Thar ain't quite so much walkin' araound ter do , '' he added significantly . 
I made my way down to the water side , where Jake Landrasse sat alone on the gunwale of a Kentucky boat , smoking a clay pipe as he fished . 
Louisville and the fort were just above the head of the Falls , and the little town of Clarksville , which Clark had founded , at the foot of them . 
At length I came out upon a clearing where fifteen log houses marked the grant of the Federal government to Clark's regiment . 
It was that of my old Colonel . 
For he still wore unconsciously the colors of the army of the American Republic . 
General ! '' I said . 
He started , got to his feet , and stared at me . 
Oh , it's it's Davy , '' he said . 
I I was expecting some friends Davy . 
What what's the matter , Davy ? '' I have been away . 
I am glad to see you again , General . 
Citizen General , sir , Major general in the army of the French Republic and Commander in chief of the French Revolutionary Legion on the Mississippi . 
'' You will always be Colonel Clark to me , sir , '' I answered . 
You you were the drummer boy , I remember , and strutted in front of the regiment as if you were the colonel . 
Egad , I remember how you fooled the Kaskaskians when you told them we were going away . 
'' He looked at me , but his eyes were still fixed on the point beyond . 
You were always older than I , Davy . 
Are you married ? '' In spite of myself , I laughed as I answered this question . 
You are as canny as ever , '' he said , putting his hand on my shoulder . 
Liberty , Equality , Fraternity , they are only possible for the bachelor . 
'' Hearing a noise , he glanced nervously in the direction of the woods , only to perceive his negro carrying a pail of water . 
I I was expecting some friends , '' he said . 
'' I hope I am not intruding , General , '' I said , not daring to look at him . 
No , no , my son , '' he answered , you are always welcome . 
Did we not campaign together ? Did we not shoot these very falls together on our way to Kaskaskia ? '' He had to raise his voice above the roar of the water . 
Faith , well I remember the day . 
'' He laughed , and suddenly became solemn again . 
There comes a time in every man's life when it grows dark , Davy , and then the cowards are afraid . 
They have no friends whose hands they can reach out and feel . 
But you are my friend . 
You remember that you said you would always be my friend ? It it was in the fort at Vincennes . 
'' I remember , General . 
'' He rose from the steps , buttoned his waistcoat , and straightened himself with an effort . 
He looked at me impressively . 
You have been a good friend indeed , Davy , a faithful friend , '' he said . 
You came to me when I was sick , you lent me money , '' he waved aside my protest . 
I am happy to say that I shall soon be in a position to repay you , to reward you . 
Listen ! I am now in the service of a republic where the people have rights , I am Commander in chief of the French Revolutionary Legion on the Mississippi . 
Despite the supineness of Washington , the American nation will soon be at war with Spain . 
The West is with me , and for the West I shall win the freedom of the Mississippi . 
For France and Liberty I shall win back again Louisiana , and then I shall be a Marechal de Camp . 
'' I could not help thinking of a man who had not been wont to speak of his intentions , who had kept his counsel for a year before Kaskaskia . 
I need my drummer boy , Davy , '' he said , his face lighting up , but he will not be a drummer boy now . 
He will be a trusted officer of high rank , mind you . 
Come , '' he cried , seizing me by the arm , I will write the commission this instant . 
But hold ! you read French , I remember the day Father Gibault gave you your first lesson . 
'' He fumbled in his pocket , drew out a letter , and handed it to me . 
This is from Citizen Michaux , the famous naturalist , the political agent of the French Republic . 
Read what he has written me . 
General , il est temps que les Americains libres de l'Ouest soient debarasses d'un ennemie aussi injuste que meprisable . 
'' When I had finished I glanced at the General , but he seemed not to be heeding me . 
The sun was setting above the ragged line of forest , and a blue veil was spreading over the tumbling waters . 
He took me by the arm and led me into the house , into a bare room that was all awry . 
Maps hung on the wall , beside them the General's new commission , rudely framed . 
Across the rough mantel shelf was draped the French tricolor , and before the fireplace on the puncheons lay a huge bearskin which undoubtedly had not been shaken for a year . 
Picking up a bottle , the General poured out generous helpings in two of the glasses , and handed one to me . 
The mists are bad , Davy , '' said he I I cannot afford to get the fever now . 
Let us drink success to the army of the glorious Republic , France . 
'' Let us drink first , General , '' I said , to the old friendship between us . 
'' Good ! '' he cried . 
Tossing off his liquor , he set down the glass and began what seemed a fruitless search among the thousand papers on the table . 
But at length , with a grunt of satisfaction , he produced a form and held it under my eyes . 
At the top of the sheet was that much abused and calumniated lady , the Goddess of Liberty . 
I crossed the room swiftly , and as he put his pen to paper I laid my hand on his arm . 
General , I cannot , '' I said . 
I had seen from the first the futility of trying to dissuade him from the expedition , and I knew now that it would never come off . 
I was willing to make almost any sacrifice rather than offend him , but this I could not allow . 
The General drew himself up in his chair and stared at me with a flash of his old look . 
You cannot ? '' he repeated you have affairs to attend to , I take it . 
'' I tried to speak , but he rode me down . 
There is money to be made in that prosperous town of Louisville . 
'' He did not understand the pain which his words caused me . 
He rose and laid his hands affectionately on my shoulders . 
Ah , Davy , commerce makes a man timid . 
'' I had not thought of the money , General , '' I answered , and I have always been ready to leave my business to serve a friend . 
'' There , there , '' said the General , soothingly , I know it . 
I would not offend you . 
You shall have the commission , and you may come when it pleases you . 
'' He sat down again to write , but I restrained him . 
I cannot go , General , '' I said . 
Thunder and fury , '' cried the General , a man might think you were a weak kneed Federalist . 
'' He stared at me , and stared again , and rose and recoiled a step . 
'' This man had bidden me remember that . 
General , '' I said , trying to speak steadily , it was you who gave me my first love for the Republic . 
I remember you as you stood on the heights above Kaskaskia waiting for the sun to go down , and you reminded me that it was the nation's birthday . 
And you said that our nation was to be a refuge of the oppressed of this earth , a nation made of all peoples , out of all time . 
And you said that the lands beyond , '' and I pointed to the West as he had done , should belong to it until the sun sets on the sea again . 
'' I glanced at him , for he was silent , and in my life I can recall no sadder moment than this . 
The General heard , but the man who had spoken these words was gone forever . 
The eyes of this man before me were fixed , as it were , upon space . 
He heard , but he did not respond for the spirit was gone . 
What I looked upon was the tortured body from which the genius the spirit I had worshipped had fled . 
I turned away , only to turn back in anger . 
What do you know of this France for which you are to fight ? '' I cried . 
And by evil chance his eye , and mine , fell upon a sword hanging on the farther wall . 
Vincennes extended her empire and aided in the defence of her liberties . 
'' By evil chance , I say , his eye lighted on that sword . 
So much for the gratitude of my country , '' he said . 
I had gone out on the little porch and stood gazing over the expanse of forest and waters lighted by the afterglow . 
Then I felt a hand upon my shoulder , I heard a familiar voice calling me by an old name . 
Yes , General ! '' I turned wonderingly . 
You are a good lad , Davy . 
I trust you , '' he said . 
I I was expecting some friends . 
'' He lifted a hand that was not too steady to his brow and scanned the road leading to the fort . 
Even as he spoke four figures emerged from the woods , undoubtedly the gentlemen who had held the council at the inn that afternoon . 
We watched them in silence as they drew nearer , and then something in the walk and appearance of the foremost began to bother me . 
So intently did I stare that I gave no thought to those who followed him . 
Suddenly , when he was within fifty paces , a cry escaped me , I should have known that smiling , sallow , weakly handsome face anywhere in the world . 
The gentleman was none other than Monsieur Auguste de St . 
At the foot of the steps he halted and swept his hand to his hat with a military salute . 
Citizen General , '' he said gracefully , we come and pay our respec's to you and mek our report , and ver' happy to see you look well . 
Citoyens , Vive la Republique ! Hail to the Citizen General ! '' Vive la Republique ! Vive le General ! '' cried the three citizens behind him . 
Citizens , you are very welcome , '' answered the General , gravely , as he descended the steps and took each of them by the hand . 
Citizens , allow me to introduce to you my old friend , Citizen David Ritchie '' Milles diables ! '' cried the Citizen St . 
Gre , seizing me by the hand , c'est mon cher ami , Monsieur Reetchie . 
Ver' happy you have this honor , Monsieur ''and snatching his wide brimmed military cocked hat from his head he made me a smiling , sweeping bow . 
What ! '' cried the General to me , you know the Sieur de St . 
Gre , Davy ? '' He is my guest once in Louisiane , mon general , '' Monsieur Auguste explained my family knows him . 
'' You know the Sieur de St . 
Gre , Davy ? '' said the General again . 
Yes , I know him , '' I answered , I fear with some brevity . 
Podden me , '' said Auguste , I am now Citizen Captain de St . 
And you are also embark in the glorious cause Ah , I am happy , '' he added , embracing me with a winning glance . 
Next came Citizen Quartermaster Depeau , now of Knob Licks , Kentucky , sometime of New Orleans . 
The Citizen Quartermaster wore his hair long in the backwoods fashion he had a keen , pale face and sunken eyes . 
Ver' glad mek you known to me , Citizen Reetchie . 
'' The fourth gentleman was likewise French , and called Gignoux . 
The Citizen Gignoux made some sort of an impression on me which I did not stop to analyze . 
He had a thin lipped mouth and a round chin . 
Citizen Reetchie , is it ? I laik to know citizen's name glorified by gran' cause . 
Reetchie ? '' Will you enter , citizens ? '' said the General . 
I do not know why I followed them unless it were to satisfy a devil prompted curiosity as to how Auguste de St . 
We went into the room , where the General's slovenly negro was already lighting the candles and the General proceeded to collect and fill six of the glasses on the table . 
It was Citizen Captain Sullivan who gave the toast . 
'' A slight suspicion of a hiccough filled this gap . 
Cast aside by an ungrateful government , he is still unfaltering in his allegiance to the people . 
May he lead our Legion victorious through the Spanish dominions . 
Vive la Republique ! '' they shouted , draining their glasses . 
Vive le citoyen general Clark ! '' Louisiana ! '' shouted Citizen Sullivan , warming , Louisiana , groaning under oppression and tyranny , is imploring us with uplifted hands . 
To those remaining veteran patriots whose footsteps we followed to this distant desert , and who by their blood and toil have converted it into a smiling country , we now look . 
Under your guidance , Citizen General , we fought , we bled '' How far the Citizen Captain would have gone is problematical . 
I had noticed a look of disgust slowly creeping into the Citizen Quartermaster's eyes , and at this juncture he seized the Citizen Captain and thrust him into a chair . 
Sacre vent ! '' he exclaimed , it is the proclamation he recites the proclamation ! I see he have participate in those handbill . 
Poof , the world is to conquer , let us not spik so much . 
Gre , laughing , the Citizen Captain Depeau he has already one wife in Nouvelle Orleans . 
'' It is unnecessary for the editor to remind the reader that these are not Mr. Ritchie's words , but those of an adventurer . 
Mr. Depeau was an honest and worthy gentleman , earnest enough in a cause which was more to his credit than to an American's . 
According to contemporary evidence , Madame Depeau was in New Orleans . 
The Citizen Quartermaster was angry at this , and it did not require any great perspicacity on my part to discover that he did not love the Citizen de St . 
He is call in his country , Gumbo de St . 
Gre , said Citizen Depeau . 
It is a deesh in that country . 
But to beesness , citizens , we embark on glorious enterprise . 
The King and Queen of France , she pay for her treason with their haids , and we must be prepare' for do the sem . 
'' Ha , '' exclaimed the Sieur de St . 
Gre , the Citizen Quartermaster will lose his provision before his haid . 
'' The inference was plain , and the Citizen Quartermaster was quick to take it up . 
We are all among frien's , '' said he . 
Why I call you Gumbo de St . 
Gre ? When I come first settle in Louisiane you was wild man yes . 
Drink tafia , fight duel , spend family money . 
No , I not hold my tongue . 
You go France and Monsieur le Marquis de St . 
Gre he get you in gardes du corps of the King . 
Yes , I tell him . 
You tell the Citizen General how come you Jacobin now , and we see if he mek you Captain . 
'' A murmur of surprise escaped from several of the company , and they all stared at the Sieur de St . 
But General Clark brought down his fist on the table with something of his old time vigor , and the glasses rattled . 
Gentlemen , I will have no quarrelling in my presence , '' he cried and I beg to inform Citizen Depeau that I bestow my commissions where it pleases me . 
Gre rose , flushing , to his feet . 
Citizens , '' he said , with a fluency that was easy for him , I never mek secret of my history no . 
It is true my relation , Monsieur le Marquis de St . 
Gre , bought me a pair of colors in the King's gardes du corps . 
'' And is it not truth you tremple the coackade , what I hear from Philadelphe ? '' cried Depeau . 
Monsieur Auguste smiled with a patient tolerance . 
If you hev pains to mek inquiry , '' said he , you must learn that I join le Marquis de La Fayette and the National Guard . 
That I have since fight for the Revolution . 
That I am come now home to fight for Louisiane , as Monsieur Genet will tell you whom I saw in Philadelphe . 
'' The Citizen Capitaine he spiks true . 
'' All eyes were turned towards Gignoux , who had been sitting back in his chair , very quiet . 
It is true what he say , '' he repeated , I have it by Monsieur Genet himself . 
'' Gentlemen , '' said General Clark , this is beside the question , and I will not have these petty quarrels . 
I may as well say to you now that I have chosen the Citizen Captain to go at once to New Orleans and organize a regiment among the citizens there faithful to France . 
On account of his family and supposed Royalist tendencies he will not be suspected . 
I fear that a month at least has yet to elapse before our expedition can move . 
'' It is one wise choice , '' put in Monsieur Gignoux . 
Monsieur le general and gentlemen , '' said the Sieur de St . 
Gre , gracefully , I thank you ver' much for the confidence . 
I leave by first flatboat and will have all things stir up when you come . 
The citizens of Louisiane await you . 
If necessair , we have hole in levee ready to cut . 
But hold , '' he cried , glancing around him , where is Captain Temple ? I heard that he had come to Louisville from the Cumberland to day . 
Is he not going with you to New Orleans , St . 
Gre ? '' I took up the name involuntarily . 
Captain Temple , '' I repeated , while they stared at me . 
Nicholas Temple ? '' It was Auguste de St . 
The sem , '' he said . 
I recall he was along with you in Nouvelle Orleans . 
Sam Barker come along and say he a Federalist . 
They done have a gran' fight , he and the young feller , and Sam got licked . 
He went at Sam just like a harricane . 
'' And then ? '' I demanded . 
Them four wanted to leave , '' said Jake , taking no trouble to disguise his disgust , and I had to fetch 'em over . 
I've got to go back and wait for 'em now , '' and he swore with sincere disappointment . 
I reckon there ain't been such a jamboree in town for years . 
'' Jake had not exaggerated . 
Navigation for the individual , difficult enough lower down , in front of the tavern became positively dangerous . 
There was a human eddy , nay , a maelstrom would better describe it . 
Another person whom I recognized lacked a large portion of the front of his attire , and seemed sublimely unconscious of the fact . 
His face was badly scratched . 
Several other friends of mine were indulging in brief intervals of rest on the ground , and I barely avoided stepping on them . 
Still other gentlemen were delivering themselves of the first impressive periods of orations , only to be drowned by the cheers of their auditors . 
We have conquered it with our blood , and I reckon no Spaniard is goin' to stop us . 
We ain't come this far to stand still . 
of the full meaning of this , though I had marked it for many years . 
The support given to Wilkinson's plots , to Clark's expedition , was merely the outward and visible sign of the onward sweep of a resistless race . 
One day Louisiana would be theirs and their children's for the generations to come . 
One day Louisiana would be American . 
That I was alive and unscratched when I got as far as the tavern is a marvel . 
Amongst all the passion lit faces which surrounded me I could get no sight of Nick's , and I managed to make my way to a momentarily quiet corner of the porch . 
Those around me who were sufficiently nimble began to run towards the noise , and I ran after them . 
I shrink from putting on paper the sentimental side of my nature , and indeed I could give no adequate idea of my affection for that drum . 
Even at this late day I shame to write it ! Behold me , David Ritchie , Federalist , execrably sober , at the head of the column behind the leader . 
Was it twenty minutes , or an hour , that we paraded ? This I know , that we slighted no street in the little town of Louisville . 
What was my bearing , whether proud or angry or carelessly indifferent , I know not . 
We passed time and time again the respectable door yards of my Federalist friends , and I felt their eyes upon me with that look which the angels have for the fallen . 
For Mr. Temple , with all the will in the world , had begun to stagger . 
A desperate cunning came to my aid . 
, we came to a gate at the back which I knew well , which led directly into the little yard that fronted my own rooms behind Mr. Crede's store . 
Pulling Nick through the gate , I slammed it , and he was only beginning to protest when I had him safe within my door , and the bolt slipped behind him . 
In spite of my feelings I could not but laugh at the perfectly irresistible figure my cousin made , as he stood before me with the drum slung in front of him . 
His hat was gone , his dust covered clothes awry , but he smiled at me benignly and without a trace of surprise . 
Sho you've come back at lasht , Davy , '' he said . 
Y you're worse'n Andy Jackson he's always fightin' . 
'' I relieved him , unprotesting , of the drum , thanking my stars there was so much as a stick left of it . 
He watched me with a silent and exaggerated interest as I laid it on the table . 
From a distance without came the shouts of the survivors making for the tavern . 
'Sfortunate you had the drum , Davy , '' he said gravely , 'rwe'd had no procession . 
'' It is fortunate I have it now , '' I answered , looking ruefully at the battered rim where Nick had missed the skin in his ardor . 
Davy , '' said he , funny thing I didn't know you wash a Jacobite . 
Sh'ou hear , '' he added relevantly , th' Andy Jackson was married ? '' No , '' I answered , having no great interest in Mr. Jackson . 
Where have you been seeing him again ? '' Nashville on Cumberland . 
Jackson'sh county sholicitor , devil of a man . 
'N' then we all went to the Red Heifer '' What the deuce is the Red Heifer ? '' I asked . 
'N'dishtillery over a shpring , 'n' they blow a horn when the liquor runsh . 
'N' then we had supper in Major Lewish's tavern . 
Major Lewis came in with roast pig on platter . 
You know roast pig , Davy ? . 
'N' Jackson pulls out's hunting knife n'waves it very mashestic . 
I laughed in spite of myself . 
But Nick regarded me soberly . 
Funny thing , Davy , '' he said , they all left the room . 
'' For a moment he appeared to be ruminating on this singular phenomenon . 
Then he continued 'N' Jackson was back firsht , 'n' he was damned impolite . 
, 'n' he said , Great God , sir , y' have a fine talent but if y' ever do that again , I'll I'll kill you . 
That'sh what he said , Davy . 
'' How long have you been in Nashville , Nick ? '' I asked . 
Thought you was mad at me , '' he answered , but you ain't , Davy . 
You've been very good natured t' let me have your drum . 
I am ver' much obliged . 
And where were you before you went to Nashville ? '' I said . 
everywhere , '' he answered . 
Now , '' said he , 'mgoin' t' bed . 
'' I applauded this determination , but doubted whether he meant to carry it out . 
, he toppled over and instantly fell asleep with his clothes on . 
For a while I stood over him , the old affection welling up so strongly within me that my eyes were dimmed as I looked upon his face . 
Spare and handsome it was , and boyish still , the weaker lines emphasized in its relaxation . 
Two of them I had not read , having found them only on my return from Philadelphia that morning . 
There were in all but twelve , and they were brief , for some affliction had nearly deprived the lady of the use of her right hand . 
I read them twice over , and then , despite the lateness of the hour , I sat staring at the candles , reflecting upon my own helplessness . 
I was startled from this revery by a knock . 
Rising hastily , I closed the door of my bedroom , thinking I had to do with some drunken reveller who might be noisy . 
I slipped back the bolt and peered out into the night . 
I saw dat light , '' said a voice which I recognized I think I come in to say good night . 
'' I opened the door , and he walked in . 
You are one night owl , Monsieur Reetchie , '' he said . 
And you seem to prefer the small hours for your visits , Monsieur de St . 
Gre , '' I could not refrain from replying . 
He swept the room with a glance , and I thought a shade of disappointment passed over his face . 
I wondered whether he were looking for Nick . 
He sat himself down in my chair , stretched out his legs , and regarded me with something less than his usual complacency . 
You listen to what dat Depeau he say , dat is not truth . 
My family knows you , I laik to have you hear de truth . 
'' He paused , and while I wondered what revelations he was about to make , I could not repress my impatience at the preamble . 
You are my frien' , you have prove it , '' he continued . 
You was in bed , but you not need be ashame' for me . 
Two days after I went to France , and I not in New Orleans since . 
'' Two days after you saw me ? '' I repeated . 
Yaas , I run away . 
That was the mont' of August , , and we have not then heard in New Orleans that the Bastille is attack . 
I lan' at La Havre , it is the en' of Septembre . 
I go to the Chateau de St . 
Gre great iron gates , long avenue of poplar , big house all 'round a court , and Monsieur le Marquis is at Versailles . 
I borrow three louis from the concierge , and I go to Versailles to the hotel of Monsieur le Marquis . 
There is all dat trouble what you read about going on , and Monsieur le Marquis he not so glad to see me for dat risson . 
Gre , Monsieur le Marquis . 
I am afred of nothings , I answered . 
He tek me to the King , I am made lieutenant , the mob come and the King and Queen are carry off to Paris . 
The King is prisoner , Monsieur le Marquis goes back to the Chateau de St . 
I , too , become Republican . 
I become officier in the National Guard , one must move with the time . 
Is it not so , Monsieur ? I deman' of you if you ever expec' to see a St . 
'' I expressed my astonishment . 
I give up my right , my principle , my family . 
I come to America I go to New Orleans where I have influence and I stir up revolution for France , for Liberty . 
Is it not noble cause ? '' I had it on the tip of my tongue to ask Monsieur Auguste why he left France , but the uselessness of it was apparent . 
What I have done , I have done for principle . 
If I remain Royalist , I might have marry my cousin , Mademoiselle de St . 
Ha , Monsieur , you remember the miniature you were so kin' as to borrow me four hundred livres ? '' I remember , '' I said . 
'' You honor me too much , Monsieur , '' I answered , though I could scarce refrain from smiling . 
It is because of your charactair , '' Monsieur Auguste was good enough to say . 
You are to be repose' in , you are to be rely on . 
Sometime I think you ver' ole man . 
And this is why , and sence you laik objects of art , that I bring this and ask you keep it while I am in dangere . 
He thrust his hand into his coat and drew forth an oval object wrapped in dirty paper , and then disclosed to my astonished eyes the miniature of Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre , the miniature , I say , for the gold back and setting were lacking . 
Auguste had retained only the ivory , whether from sentiment or necessity I will not venture . 
Suddenly I forgot Auguste in the lady herself . 
There was something emblematical in the misfortune which had bereft the picture of its setting . 
Even so the Revolution had taken from her a brilliant life , a king and queen , home and friends . 
Yet the spirit remained unquenchable , set above its mean surroundings , ay , and untouched by them . 
I was filled with a painful curiosity to know what had become of her , which I repressed . 
Mon Dieu , Monsieur , it is so . 
It is that mek me love you know not how . 
You know not what love is , Monsieur Reetchie , you never love laik me . 
You have not sem risson . 
Monsieur , '' he continued , leaning forward and putting his hand on my knee , I think she love me I am not sure . 
I should not be surprise' . 
But Monsieur le Marquis , her father , he trit me ver' bad . 
Monsieur le Marquis is guillotine' now , I mus' not spik evil of him , but he marry her to one ol' garcon , Le Vicomte d'Ivry le Tour . 
'' So Mademoiselle is married , '' I said after a pause . 
Oui , she is Madame la Vicomtesse now I fall at her feet jus' the sem . 
I hear of her once at Bel Oeil , the chateau of Monsieur le Prince de Ligne in Flander' . 
After that they go I know not where . 
They are exile' , los' to me . 
'' He sighed , and held out the miniature to me . 
Monsieur , I esk you favor . 
Will you be as kin' and keep it for me again ? '' I have wondered many times since why I did not refuse . 
Suffice it to say that I took it . 
And Auguste's face lighted up . 
I awoke with a start , and sat for some minutes trying to collect my scattered senses . 
The sun streamed in at my open door , the birds hopped on the lawn , and the various sounds of the bustling life of the little town came to me from beyond . 
Suddenly , with a glimmering of the mad events of the night , I stood up , walked uncertainly into the back room , and stared at the bed . 
I went back into the outer room my eye wandered from the shattered whiskey bottle , which was still on the floor , to the table littered with Mrs. Temple's letters . 
And there , in the midst of them , lay a note addressed with my name in a big , unformed hand . 
Dear Davy , '' so it ran , I have gone away , I cannot tell you where . 
Some day I will come back and you will forgive me . 
God bless you ! NICK . 
Gre were to prepare the way for an insurrection there . 
My thoughts ran on to other possibilities would he see his mother ? But he had no reason to know that Mrs. Temple was still in New Orleans . 
Then my glance fell on her letters , lying open on the table . 
Had he read them ? I put this down as improbable , for he was a man who held strictly to a point of honor . 
And then there was Antoinette de St . 
Gre ! I ceased to conjecture here , dashed some water in my eyes , pulled myself together , and , seizing my hat , hurried out into the street . 
I made a sufficiently indecorous figure as I ran towards the water side , barely nodding to my acquaintances on the way . 
I turned to confront a little man with grizzled , chestnut eyebrows . 
He was none other than the Citizen Gignoux . 
You tek ze air , Monsieur Reetchie ? '' said he . 
You look for some one , yes ? You git up too late see him off . 
'' I made a swift resolve never to quibble with this man . 
So Mr. Temple has gone to New Orleans with the Sieur de St . 
Gre , '' I said . 
Citizen Gignoux laid a fat finger on one side of his great nose . 
The nose was red and shiny , I remember , and glistened in the sunlight . 
Ah , '' said he , 'tis no use tryin' hide from you . 
However , Monsieur Reetchie , you are the ver' soul of honor . 
And then your frien' ! I know you not betray the Sieur de St . 
He is ver' fon' of you . 
'' Betray ! '' I exclaimed there is no question of betrayal . 
As far as I can see , your plans are carried on openly , with a fine contempt for the Federal government . 
'' He shrugged his shoulders . 
'Tis not my doin' , '' he said , but I am what you call it ? a cipher . 
Sicrecy is what I believe . 
'' He smiled , but perhaps the expression of my face caused him to sober abruptly . 
It is necessair for the cause . 
We must have good Revolution in Louisiane . 
'' A suspicion of this man came over me , for a childlike simplicity characterized the other ringleaders in this expedition . 
Clark had had acumen once , and lost it St . 
Gre was a fool Nick Temple was leading purposely a reckless life the Citizens Sullivan and Depeau had , to say the least , a limited knowledge of affairs . 
that something be done about Louisiana . 
But Gignoux seemed of a different feather . 
Moreover , he had been too shrewd to deny what Colonel Clark would have denied in a soberer moment , that St . 
Gre and Nick had gone to New Orleans . 
You not spik , Monsieur . 
You not think they have success . 
You are not Federalist , no , for I hear you march las night with your frien' , I hear you wave torch . 
'' You make it your business to hear a great deal , Monsieur Gignoux , '' I retorted , my temper slipping a little . 
Mille pardons , Monsieur , '' he said I see you are Federalist but drunk . 
Is it not so ? Monsieur , you tink this ver' silly thing this expedition . 
'' Whatever I think , Monsieur , '' I answered , I am a friend of General Clark's . 
'' An enemy of ze cause ? '' he put in . 
The more I thought , the more criminally foolish Nick's journey seemed to me . 
However puerile the undertaking , De Lemos at Natchez and Carondelet at New Orleans had not the reputation of sleeping at their posts , and their hatred for Americans was well known . 
I sought General Clark , but he had gone to Knob Licks , and in my anxiety I lay awake at nights tossing in my bed . 
One evening , perhaps four days after Nick's departure , I went into the common room of the tavern , and there I was surprised to see an old friend . 
His reputation as a financier was greater than ever . 
He was talking to my friend , Mr. Marshall , but he rose when he saw me , with a beaming smile . 
Ha , it is Davy , '' he cried , but not the sem lil drummer boy who would not come into my store . 
Reech lawyer now , I hear you make much money now , Davy . 
'' Congress money ? '' I said . 
Monsieur Vigo threw out his hands , and laughed exactly as he had done in his log store at Kaskaskia . 
Congress have never repay me one sou , '' said Monsieur Vigo , making a face . 
I have try I have talk I have represent it is no good . 
Davy , it is your fault . 
You tell me tek dat money . 
Then you must have had a cask , egad , '' said Mr. Marshall , for I never saw you drunk . 
I shall not attempt to explain it , sir , '' I answered . 
You must not allow your drum to drag you into bad company again , '' said he , and resumed his conversation . 
As I suspected , it was a vigorous condemnation of General Clark and his new expedition . 
I expressed my belief that the government did not regard it seriously , and would forbid the enterprise at the proper time . 
You are right , sir , '' said Mr. Marshall , bringing down his fist on the table . 
As a matter of fact , Mr. Marshall , '' said I , Citizen Genet has been liberal with nothing except commissions , and they have neither money nor men . 
'' The rascals have all left town , '' said Mr. Marshall . 
Citizen Quartermaster Depeau , their local financier , has gone back to his store at Knob Licks . 
Gre and a Mr. Temple , as doubtless you know , have gone to New Orleans . 
And the most mysterious and therefore the most dangerous of the lot , Citizen Gignoux , has vanished like an evil spirit . 
It is commonly supposed that he , too , has gone down the river . 
You may see him , Vigo , '' said Mr. Marshall , turning to the trader he is a little man with a big nose and grizzled chestnut eyebrows . 
'' Ah , I know a lil 'bout him , '' said Monsieur Vigo he was on my boat two days ago , asking me questions . 
'' The devil he was ! '' said Mr. Marshall . 
I had another disquieting night , and by the morning I had made up my mind . 
An awning was stretched over the deck , and at a walnut table covered with papers sat Monsieur Vigo , smoking his morning pipe . 
Davy , '' said he , you have come a la bonne heure . 
At ten I depart for New Orleans . 
It is so long voyage , '' he added , and so lonely one . 
Sometime I have the good fortune to pick up a companion , but not to day . 
'' Do you want me to go with you ? '' I said . 
He looked at me incredulously . 
I should be delighted , '' he said , but you mek a jest . 
'' I was never more serious in my life , '' I answered , for I have business in New Orleans . 
'' Ha , '' cried Monsieur Vigo , hospitably , I shall be enchant . 
We will talk philosophe , Beaumarchais , Voltaire , Rousseau . 
I spent the remaining hours arranging with a young lawyer of my acquaintance to look after my business , and at ten o'clock I was aboard the keel boat with my small baggage . 
At eleven , Monsieur Vigo and I were talking philosophe'' over a wonderful breakfast under the awning , as we dropped down between the forest lined shores of the Ohio . 
My host travelled in luxury , and we ate the Creole dishes , which his cook prepared , with silver forks which he kept in a great chest in the cabin . 
You who read this may feel something of my impatience to get to New Orleans , and hence I shall not give a long account of the journey . 
Sometimes a favorable wind sprang up , and we hoisted the sail . 
Thanks to Monsieur Vigo , his manners were charming and his hospitality gracious , and there was no trouble whatever about my passport . 
New Orleans was a cesspool , said the enlightened . 
Yes , Monsieur le Baron was energy itself . 
That other fever the political one he had scotched . 
Ca Ira'' and La Marseillaise'' had been sung in the theatres , but not often , for the Baron had sent the alcaldes to shut them up . 
Certain gentlemen of French ancestry had gone to languish in the Morro at Havana . 
Sub rosa , I found much sympathy among the planters with the Rights of Man . 
Strangly enough , the name of Auguste de St . 
Gre never crossed their lips , and I got no trace of him or Nick at any of these places . 
It was perhaps characteristic of me that I waited nearly three weeks to confide in my old friend the purpose of my journey to New Orleans . 
Gre from the rest of the story . 
But Monsieur Vigo was a man of importance in Louisiana , and I reflected that a time might come when I should need his help . 
One evening , when we were tied up under the oaks of a bayou , I told him . 
There emanated from Monsieur Vigo a sympathy which few men possess , and this I felt strongly as he listened , breaking his silence only at long intervals to ask a question . 
And what you do , Davy ? '' he said at length . 
I must find my cousin and St . 
Gre before they have a chance to get into much mischief , '' I answered . 
If they have already made a noise , I thought of going to the Baron de Carondelet and telling him what I know of the expedition . 
He will understand what St . 
Gre is , and I will explain that Mr. Temple's reckless love of adventure is at the bottom of his share in the matter . 
'' Bon , Davy , '' said my host , if you go , I go with you . 
But I believe ze Baron think Morro good place for them jus' the sem . 
Ze Baron has been make miserable with Jacobins . 
But I go with you if you go . 
'' He discoursed for some time upon the quality of the St . 
Gre's , their public services , and before he went to sleep he made the very just remark that there was a flaw in every string of beads . 
The face upon it had haunted me since I had first beheld it . 
The miniature was wrapped now in a silk handkerchief which Polly Ann had bought for me in Lexington . 
Shall I confess it ? I had carefully rubbed off the discolorations on the ivory at the back , and the picture lacked now only the gold setting . 
As for the face , I had a kind of consolation from it . 
I seemed to draw of its strength when I was tired , of its courage when I faltered . 
And , during those four days of indecision in Louisville , it seemed to say to me in words that I could not evade or forget , Go to New Orleans . 
'' It was a sentiment foolish , if you please which could not resist . 
Nay , which I did not try to resist , for I had little enough of it in my life . 
What did it matter ? I should never see Madame la Vicomtesse d'Ivry le Tour . 
CHAPTER V THE HOUSE OF THE HONEYCOMBED TILES As long as I live I shall never forget that Sunday morning of my second arrival at New Orleans . 
A saffron heat haze hung over the river and the city , robbed alike from the yellow waters of the one and the pestilent moisture of the other . 
I looked again upon the familiar rows of trees which shaded the gravelled promenades where Nick had first seen Antoinette . 
Then we were under it , for the river was low , and the dingy uniformed officer was bowing over our passports beneath the awning . 
We walked ashore , Monsieur Vigo and I , and we joined a staring group of keel boatmen and river men under the willows . 
Below us , the white shell walks of the Place d'Armes were thronged with gayly dressed people . 
It is Corpus Christi day , '' said Monsieur Vigo let us go and see the procession . 
Many of these people greeted Monsieur Vigo . 
There were the saturnine , long cloaked Spaniards , too , and a greater number than I had believed of my own keen faced countrymen lounging about , mildly amused by the scene . 
Then down on their knees to Him who sits high above the yellow haze fell the thousands in the Place d'Armes . 
The Governor ! '' whispered Monsieur Vigo , and the word was passed from mouth to mouth as the people rose from their knees . 
After the Governor , one by one , the waiting Associations fell in line , each with its own distinguishing sash . 
So the procession moved off into the narrow streets of the city , the people in the Place dispersed to new vantage points , and Monsieur Vigo signed me to follow him . 
I have a frien' , la veuve Gravois , who lives ver' quiet . 
She have one room , and I ask her tek you in , Davy . 
'' He led the way through the empty Rue Chartres , turned to the right at the Rue Bienville , and stopped before an unpretentious house some three doors from the corner . 
Monsieur Vigo promised to send his servant with my baggage , told me his address , bade me call on him for what I wanted , and took his leave . 
First , there was Madame Gravois' story to listen to as she bustled about giving orders to a kinky haired negro girl concerning my dinner . 
Then came the dinner , excellent if I could have eaten it . 
The virtues of the former Monsieur Gravois were legion . 
He had come to Louisiana from Toulon , planted indigo , fought a duel , and Madame was a widow . 
So I condense two hours into two lines . 
Happily , Madame was not proof against the habits of the climate , and she retired for her siesta . 
I sought my room , almost suffocated by a heat which defies my pen to describe , a heat reeking with moisture sucked from the foul kennels of the city . 
I had felt nothing like it in my former visit to New Orleans . 
It seemed to bear down upon my brain , to clog the power of thought , to make me vacillating . 
Hitherto my reasoning had led me to seek Monsieur de St . 
Gre , to count upon that gentleman's common sense and his former friendship . 
But now that the time had come for it , I shrank from such a meeting . 
I remembered his passionate affection for Antoinette , I imagined that he would not listen calmly to one who was in some sort connected with her unhappiness . 
So a kind of cowardice drove me first to Mrs. Temple . 
She might know much that would save me useless trouble and blundering . 
The shadows of tree top , thatch , and wall were lengthening as I walked along the Rue Bourbon . 
Heedless of what the morrow might bring forth , the street was given over to festivity . 
Merry groups were gathered on the corners , songs and laughter mingled in the court yards , billiard balls clicked in the cabarets . 
Madame Clive , mais oui , Monsieur , l' petite maison en face . 
'' Smiling benignly at the children , he began to fiddle once more . 
This screen was set on the extreme edge of the roof which overhung the banquette and shaded the yellow adobe wall of the house . 
The two little battened doors , one step up , were closed . 
I rapped , waited , and rapped again . 
The musician across the street stopped his fiddling , glanced at me , smiled knowingly at the children and they paused in their dance to stare . 
Then one of the doors was pushed open a scant four inches , a scarlet madras handkerchief appeared in the crack above a yellow face . 
There was a long moment of silence , during which I felt the scrutiny of a pair of sharp , black eyes . 
What yo' want , Marse ? '' The woman's voice astonished me , for she spoke the dialect of the American tide water . 
I should like to see Mrs. Clive , '' I answered . 
The door closed a shade . 
Mistis sick , she ain't see nobody , '' said the woman . 
She closed the door a little more , and I felt tempted to put my foot in the crack . 
Tell her that Mr. David Ritchie is here , '' I said . 
There was an instant's silence , then an exclamation . 
Lan' sakes , is you Marse Dave ? '' She opened the door furtively , I thought just wide enough for me to pass through . 
I found myself in a low ceiled , darkened room , opposite a trim negress who stood with her arms akimbo and stared at me . 
Marse Dave , you doan rec'lect me . 
I'se Lindy , I'se Breed's daughter . 
I rec'lect you when you was at Temple Bow . 
Marse Dave , how you'se done growed ! Yassir , when I heerd from Miss Sally I done comed here to tek cyar ob her . 
'' How is your mistress ? '' I asked . 
She po'ly , Marse Dave , '' said Lindy , and paused for adequate words . 
I took note of this darky who , faithful to a family , had come hither to share her mistress's exile and obscurity . 
Lindy was spare , energetic , forceful and , I imagined , a discreet guardian indeed for the unfortunate . 
She po'ly , Marse Dave , an' she ain' nebber leabe dis year house . 
Marse Dave , '' said Lindy earnestly , lowering her voice and taking a step closer to me , I done reckon de Mistis gwine ter die ob lonesomeness . 
She des sit dar an' brood , an' brood an' she use' ter de bes' company , to de quality . 
No , sirree , Marse Dave , she ain' nebber sesso , but she tink 'bout de young Marsa night an' day . 
Marse Dave ? '' Yes ? '' I said . 
Marse Dave , she have a lil pink frock dat Marsa Nick had when he was a bebby . 
I done cotch Mistis lookin' at it , an' she hid it when she see me an' blush like 'twas a sin . 
Marse Dave ? '' Yes ? '' I said again . 
Where am de young Marsa ? '' I don't know , Lindy , '' I answered . 
She done talk 'bout you , Marse Dave , an' how good you is '' And Mrs. Temple sees no one , '' I asked . 
Dar's one lady come hyar ebery week , er French lady , but she speak English jes' like the Mistis . 
Dat's my fault , '' said Lindy , showing a line of white teeth . 
Your fault , '' I exclaimed . 
When I comed here from Caroliny de Mistis done tole me not ter let er soul in hyah . 
One day erbout three mont's ergo , dis yer lady come en she des wheedled me ter let her in . 
She was de quality , Marse Dave , and I was des' afeard not ter . 
Lindy , '' she said , what have you done ? '' Miss Sally '' Lindy began , and looked at me . 
But I could not speak for looking at the lady in the doorway . 
Who is it ? '' she said again , and her hand sought the door post tremblingly . 
Who is it ? '' Then I went to her . 
At my first step she gave a little cry and swayed , and had I not taken her in my arms I believe she would have fallen . 
David ! '' she said , David , is it you ? I I cannot see very well . 
Why did you not speak ? '' She looked at Lindy and smiled . 
It is because I am an old woman , Lindy , '' and she lifted her hand to her forehead . 
See , my hair is white I shock you , David . 
A white shell walk divided the garden and ended at the door of a low outbuilding , from the chimney of which blue smoke curled upward in the evening air . 
Mrs. Temple drew me almost fiercely towards a bench against the adobe wall . 
Where is he ? '' she said . 
Where is he , David ? '' The suddenness of the question staggered me I hesitated . 
I do not know , '' I answered . 
I could not look into her face and say it . 
The years of torment and suffering were written there in characters not to be mistaken . 
Sarah Temple , the beauty , was dead indeed . 
The hope which threatened to light again the dead fires in the woman's eyes frightened me . 
Ah , '' she said sharply , you are deceiving me . 
It is not like you , David . 
Tell me , tell me , for the love of God , who has brought me to bear chastisement . 
'' And she gripped my arm with a strength I had not thought in her . 
Listen , '' I said , trying to calm myself as well as her . 
'' I could not bring myself to call her otherwise . 
You are keeping him away from me , '' she cried . 
Why are you keeping him away ? Have I not suffered enough ? David , I cannot live long . 
I do not dare to die until he has forgiven me . 
'' I forced her , gently as I might , to sit on the bench , and I seated myself beside her . 
Listen , '' I said , with a sternness that hid my feelings , and perforce her expression changed again to a sad yearning , you must hear me . 
And you must trust me , for I have never pretended . 
You shall see him if it is in my power . 
'' She looked at me so piteously that I was near to being unmanned . 
I will trust you , '' she whispered . 
I have seen him , '' I said . 
She started violently , but I laid my hand on hers , and by some self mastery that was still in her she was silent . 
I saw him in Louisville a month ago , when I returned from a year's visit to Philadelphia . 
'' I could not equivocate with this woman , I could no more lie to her sorrow than to the Judgment . 
Why had I not foreseen her question ? And he hates me ? '' She spoke with a calmness now that frightened me more than her agitation had done . 
I do not know , '' I answered when I would have spoken to him he was gone . 
'' He was drunk , '' she said . 
I stared at her in frightened wonderment . 
He was drunk it is better than if he had cursed me . 
He did not mention me ? Or any one ? '' He did not , '' I answered . 
She turned her face away . 
Go on , I will listen to you , '' she said , and sat immovable through the whole of my story , though her hand trembled in mine . 
And while I live I hope never to have such a thing to go through with again . 
Likewise , truth forbade me to rekindle her hope . 
I did not tell her that Nick had come with St . 
Gre to New Orleans , for of this my own knowledge was as yet not positive . 
For a long time after I had finished she was silent . 
And you think the expedition will not get here ? '' she asked finally , in a dead voice . 
I am positive of it , '' I answered , and for the sake of those who are engaged in it , it is mercifully best that it should not . 
The day may come , '' I added , for the sake of leading her away , when Kentucky will be strong enough to overrun Louisiana . 
'' She turned to me with a trace of her former fierceness . 
Why are you in New Orleans ? '' she demanded . 
A sudden resolution came to me then . 
To bring you back with me to Kentucky , '' I answered . 
She shook her head sadly , but I continued I have more to say . 
I am convinced that neither Nick nor you will be happy until you are mother and son again . 
You have both been wanderers long enough . 
'' Once more she turned away and fell into a revery . 
Over the housetop , from across the street , came the gay music of the fiddler . 
Mrs. Temple laid her hand gently on my shoulder . 
My dear , '' she said , smiling , I could not live for the journey . 
'' You must live for it , '' I answered . 
You must live for it , for his sake . 
'' She shook her head , and smiled at me with a courage which was the crown of her sufferings . 
You are talking nonsense , David , '' she said it is not like you . 
Come , '' she said , rising with something of her old manner , I must show you what I have been doing all these years . 
You must admire my garden . 
Little she cared for flowers in those days , and now they had become her life . 
With such thoughts in my mind , I listened unheeding to her talk . 
The place was formerly occupied by a shiftless fellow , a tailor and the court , now a paradise , had been a rubbish heap . 
That orange tree which shaded the uneven doorway of the kitchen she had found here . 
Ay , and the fragrant bed of yellow jasmine over which she lingered , Antoinette's favorite flower . 
Scarce a week had she been in the house before Antoinette had found her . 
I I sent the girl away , David . 
She came without Monsieur de St . 
Gre's knowledge , without his consent . 
It is natural that he thinks me I will not say what . 
She clung to me , she would not go , and I had to be cruel . 
It is one of the things which make the nights long so long . 
My sins have made her life unhappy . 
'' And you hear of her ? She is not married ? '' I asked . 
No , she is not married , '' said Mrs. Temple , stooping over the jasmines . 
Then she straightened and faced me , her voice shaken with earnestness . 
David , do you think that Nick still loves her ? '' Alas , I could not answer that . 
She bent over the jasmines again . 
There were five years that I knew nothing , '' she continued . 
I did not dare ask Mr. Clark , who comes to me on business , as you know . 
It was Mr. Clark who brought back Lindy on one of his trips to Charleston . 
And then , one day in March of this year , Madame de Montmery came . 
'' Madame de Montmery ? '' I repeated . 
It is a strange story , '' said Mrs. Temple . 
Lindy had never admitted any one , save Mr. Clark . 
One day early in the spring , when I was trimming my roses by the wall there , the girl ran to me and said that a lady wished to see me . 
Why had she let her in ? Lindy did not know , she could not refuse her . 
Had the lady demanded admittance ? Lindy thought that I would like to see her . 
David , it was a providential weakness , or curiosity , that prompted me to go into the front room , and then I saw why Lindy had opened the door to her . 
Who she is or what she is I do not know to this day . 
Who am I now that I should inquire ? I know that she is a lady , that she has exquisite manners , that I feel now that I cannot live without her . 
She comes every week , sometimes twice , she brings me little delicacies , new seeds for my garden . 
But , best of all , she brings me herself , and I am always counting the days until she comes again . 
Yes , and I always fear that she , too , will be taken away from me . 
'' I had not heard the sound of voices , but Mrs. Temple turned , startled , and looked towards the house . 
I followed her glance , and suddenly I knew that my heart was beating . 
CHAPTER VI MADAME LA VICOMTESSE Hesitating on the step , a lady stood in the vine covered doorway , a study in black and white in a frame of pink roses . 
The sash at her waist , the lace mantilla that clung about her throat , the deftly coiled hair with its sheen of the night waters these in black . 
The simple gown a tribute to the art of her countrywomen in white . 
Mrs. Temple had gone forward to meet her , but I stood staring , marvelling , forgetful , in the path . 
They were talking , they were coming towards me , and I heard Mrs. Temple pronounce my name and hers Madame de Montmery . 
I bowed , she courtesied . 
There was a baffling light in the lady's brown eyes when I dared to glance at them , and a smile playing around her mouth . 
Was there no word in the two languages to find its way to my lips ? Mrs. Temple laid her hand on my arm . 
David is not what one might call a ladies' man , Madame , '' she said . 
Isn't he ? '' she said . 
I am sure you will frighten him with your wit , '' answered Mrs. Temple , smiling . 
'' He is worth frightening , then , '' said the lady , in exquisite English , and she looked at me again . 
You and David should like each other , '' said Mrs. Temple you are both capable persons , friends of the friendless and towers of strength to the weak . 
'' The lady's face became serious , but still there was the expression I could not make out . 
In an instant she seemed to have scrutinized me with a precision from which there could be no appeal . 
I seem to know Mr. Ritchie , '' she said , and added quickly Mrs. Clive has talked a great deal about you . 
She has made you out a very wonderful person . 
'' My dear , '' said Mrs. Temple , the wonderful people of this world are those who find time to comfort and help the unfortunate . 
That is why you and David are wonderful . 
No one knows better than I how easy it is to be selfish . 
'' I have brought you an English novel , '' said Madame de Montomery , turning abruptly to Mrs. Temple . 
But you must not read it at night . 
Lindy is not to let you have it until to morrow . 
'' There , '' said Mrs. Temple , gayly , to me , Madame is not happy unless she is controlling some one , and I am a rebellious subject . 
You have not been taking care of yourself , '' said Madame . 
She glanced at me , and bit her lips , as though guessing the emotion which my visit had caused . 
Listen , '' she said , the vesper bells ! You must go into the house , and Mr. Ritchie and I must leave you . 
'' She took Mrs. Temple by the arm and led her , unresisting , along the path . 
I followed , a thousand thoughts and conjectures spinning in my brain . 
They reached the bench under the little tree beside the door , and stood talking for a moment of the routine of Mrs. Temple's life . 
Madame , it seemed , had prescribed a regimen , and meant to have it followed . 
Suddenly I saw Mrs. Temple take the lady's arm , and sink down upon the bench . 
Then we were both beside her , bending over her , she sitting upright and smiling at us . 
It is nothing , '' she said I am so easily tired . 
'' Her lips were ashen , and her breath came quickly . 
Madame acted with that instant promptness which I expected of her . 
You must carry her in , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said quietly . 
No , it is only momentary , David , '' said Mrs. Temple . 
I remember how pitifully frail and light she was as I picked her up and followed Madame through the doorway into the little bedroom . 
I laid Mrs. Temple on the bed . 
Send Lindy here , '' said Madame . 
Lindy was in the front room with the negress whom Madame had brought with her . 
I supposed then this was because Lindy did not speak French . 
I did not know that Madame de Montmery's maid was a mute . 
Both of them went into the bedroom , and I was left alone . 
The door and windows were closed , and a green myrtle berry candle was burning on the table . 
I looked about me with astonishment . 
But for the low ceiling and the wide cypress puncheons of the floor the room might have been a boudoir in a manor house . 
Tall silver candlesticks graced each end of the little mantel shelf , and between them were two Lowestoft vases having the Temple coat of arms . 
It might have been half an hour that I waited , now pacing the floor , now throwing myself into the arm chair by the fireplace . 
Anxiety for Mrs. Temple , problems that lost themselves in a dozen conjectures , all idle these agitated me almost beyond my power of self control . 
Once I felt for the miniature , took it out , and put it back without looking at it . 
At last I was startled to my feet by the opening of the door , and Madame de Montmery came in . 
She is easy again , now , '' she said simply . 
It is one of her attacks . 
I wish you might have seen me before you told her what you had to say to her . 
'' I wish indeed that I had known you were here . 
'' She ignored this , whether intentionally , I know not . 
It is her heart , poor lady ! I am afraid she cannot live long . 
'' She seated herself in one of the straight chairs . 
Sit down , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said I am glad you waited . 
I wanted to talk with you . 
'' I thought that you might , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' I answered . 
She made no gesture , either of surprise or displeasure . 
So you knew , '' she said quietly . 
I knew you the moment you appeared in the doorway , '' I replied . 
It was not just what I meant to say . 
There flashed over her face that expression of the miniature , the mouth repressing the laughter in the brown eyes . 
Montmery is one of my husband's places , '' she said . 
When Antoinette asked me to come here and watch over Mrs. Temple , I chose the name . 
'' And Mrs. Temple has never suspected you ? '' I think not . 
She thinks I came at Mr. Clark's request . 
And being a lady , she does not ask questions . 
She accepts me for what I appear to be . 
, that I could scarce maintain my self possession in her presence . 
I had given the portrait , too , attributes and a character , and I found myself watching the lady with a breathless interest lest she should fail in any of these . 
I found myself glancing continually at her face , on which the candle light shone . 
The Vicomtesse might have been four and twenty . 
Save for the soberer gown she wore , she seemed scarce older than the young girl in the miniature who had the presence of a woman of the world . 
Suddenly I discovered with a flush that she was looking at me intently , without embarrassment , but with an expression that seemed to hint of humor in the situation . 
To my astonishment , she laughed a little . 
You are a very odd person , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said . 
I have heard so much of you from Mrs. Temple , from Antoinette , that I know something of your strange life . 
After all , '' she added with a trace of sadness , it has been no stranger than my own . 
First I will answer your questions , and then I shall ask some . 
'' But I have asked no questions , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' I said . 
And you are a very simple person , Mr. Ritchie , '' continued Madame la Vicomtesse , smiling it is what I had been led to suppose . 
benefactor of this poor lady here , it is fitting that you should know certain things . 
Gre for the shelter he gives me . 
His letter reached me in England , and I arrived three months ago . 
'' She hesitated nay , I should rather say paused , for there was little hesitation in what she did . 
She paused , as though weighing what she was to say next . 
One has only to see Antoinette to love her . 
I wondered why she had not married . 
And yet I saw that there had been an affair . 
It seemed very strange to me , Mr. Ritchie , for with us , you understand , marriages are arranged . 
Antoinette really has beauty , she is the daughter of a man of importance in the colony , her strength of character saves her from being listless . 
I found a girl with originality of expression , with a sense of the fitness of things , devoted to charitable works , who had not taken the veil . 
That was on her father's account . 
As you know , they are inseparable . 
Gre is a remarkable man , with certain vigorous ideas not in accordance with the customs of his neighbors . 
'' She paused again , and , reading between the lines , I perceived that Madame la Vicomtesse had become essential to the household at Les Iles . 
Gre was not a man to misplace a confidence . 
It was then that I first heard of you , Mr. Ritchie , and of the part which you played in that affair . 
It was then I had my first real insight into Antoinette's character . 
Her affection for Mrs. Temple astonished me , bewildered me . 
The woman had deceived her and her family , and yet Antoinette gave up her lover because he would not take his mother back . 
Had Mrs. Temple been willing to return to Les Iles after you had providentially taken her away , they would have received her . 
Gre is not a man to listen to criticism . 
As it was , Antoinette did not rest until she found where Mrs. Temple had hidden herself , and then she came here to her . 
It is not for us to judge any of them . 
In sending Antoinette away the poor lady denied herself the only consolation that was left to her . 
Every week she has had news of Mrs. Temple from Mr. Clark . 
And when I came and learned her trouble , Antoinette begged me to come here and be Mrs. Temple's friend . 
Mr. Ritchie , she is a very ill woman and a very sad woman , the saddest woman I have ever known , and I have seen many . 
'' And Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre ? '' I asked . 
Tell me about this man for whom Antoinette has ruined her life , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse , brusquely . 
Is he worth it ? No , no man is worth what she has suffered . 
'' Madame la Vicomtesse bit her lip . 
Had she known me better , she might have smiled . 
As for me , I was wholly puzzled to account for these fleeting changes in her humor . 
You have taken a great deal upon your shoulders , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said . 
They are from all accounts broad ones . 
There , I was wrong to be indignant in your presence , you who seem to have spent your life in trying to get others out of difficulties . 
Mercy , '' she said , with a quick gesture at my protest , there are few men with whom one might talk thus in so short an acquaintance . 
I love the girl , and I cannot help being angry with Mr. Temple . 
I suppose there is something to be said on his side . 
Let us hear it I dare say he could not have a better advocate , '' she finished , with an indefinable smile . 
I began at the wrong end of my narrative , and it was some time before I had my facts arranged in proper sequence . 
I could not forget that Madame la Vicomtesse was looking at me fixedly . 
I reviewed Nick's neglected childhood painted as well as I might his temperament and character his generosity and fearlessness , his recklessness and improvidence . 
His loyalty to those he loved , his detestation of those he hated . 
I told how , under these conditions , the sins and vagaries of his parents had gone far to wreck his life at the beginning of it . 
Here I hesitated , little knowing how to tell the Vicomtesse of that affair in Louisville . 
Though I had a sense that I could not keep the truth from so discerning a person , I was startled to find this to be so . 
Yes , yes , I understand , '' she said quickly . 
And in the morning he had flown with that most worthy of my relatives , Auguste de St . 
'' I looked at her , finding no words to express my astonishment at this perspicacity . 
And now what do you intend to do ? '' she asked . 
Find him in New Orleans , if you can , of course . 
But how ? '' She rose quickly , went to the fireplace , and stood for a moment with her back to me . 
It ought not to be difficult , after all . 
Gre is a fool , and he confirms what you say of the expedition . 
He is , indeed , a pretty person to choose for an intrigue of this kind . 
And your cousin , what shall we call him ? '' To say the least , secrecy is not Nick's forte , '' I answered , catching her mood . 
It would be a blessing if Monsieur le Baron could hang Auguste privately . 
As for your cousin , he may be worth saving , after all . 
I know Monsieur de Carondelet , and he has no patience with conspirators of this sort . 
I think he would not hesitate to make examples of them . 
However , we will try to save them . 
'' We ! '' I repeated unwittingly . 
Madame la Vicomtesse looked at me and laughed out right . 
Yes , '' she said , you will do some things , I others . 
Both of our gentlemen might be tempted into one of these . 
You will drop into them , Mr. Ritchie . 
Then there is Madame Bouvet's . 
'' Auguste would scarcely go there , '' I objected . 
Ah , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse , but Madame Bouvet will know the names of some of Auguste's intimates . 
This Bouvet is evidently a good person , perhaps she will do more for you . 
I understand that she has a weak spot in her heart for Auguste . 
'' Madame la Vicomtesse turned her back again . 
Had she heard how Madame Bouvet had begged me to buy the miniature ? Have you any other suggestions to make ? '' she said , putting a foot on the fender . 
They have all been yours , so far , '' I answered . 
And yet you are a man of action , of expedients , '' she murmured , without turning . 
Where are your wits , Mr. Ritchie ? Have you any plan ? '' I have been so used to rely on myself , Madame , '' I replied . 
That you do not like to have your affairs meddled with by a woman , '' she said , into the fireplace . 
I give you the credit to believe that you are too clever to misunderstand me , Madame , '' I said . 
You must know that your help is most welcome . 
'' At that she swung around and regarded me strangely , mirth lurking in her eyes . 
She seemed about to retort , and then to conquer the impulse . 
The effect of this was to make me anything but self complacent . 
She sat down in the chair and for a little while she was silent . 
Suppose we do find them , '' she said suddenly . 
What shall we do with them ? '' She looked up at me questioningly , seriously . 
Gre , '' I answered , though I have no reason for saying so . 
'' You are very honest , Mr. Ritchie . 
We must look at this problem from all sides . 
If he is not reconciled with his mother , Antoinette will not receive him . 
And if he is , we have the question to consider whether he is still worthy of her . 
The agents of Providence must not be heedless , '' she added with a smile . 
I am sure that Nick would alter his life if it became worth living , '' I said . 
I will answer for that much . 
'' Then he must be reconciled with his mother , '' she replied with decision . 
Mrs. Temple has suffered enough . 
And he must be found before he gets sufficiently into the bad graces of the Baron de Carondelet , these two things are clear . 
Come here to morrow evening at the same time . 
'' She started quickly for the bedroom door , but something troubled me still . 
Yes , '' she answered , turning quickly . 
I did not know how to begin . 
She regarded me with seeming patience . 
I should think that Mrs. Temple might have recognized you , '' I said , for want of a better opening . 
From the miniature ? '' she said . 
I flushed furiously , and it seemed to burn me through the lining of my pocket . 
That was my salvation , '' she said . 
Mrs. Temple has never seen the miniature . 
I have heard how you rescued it , Mr. Ritchie , '' she added , with a curious smile . 
'' Then he knew ? '' I stammered . 
I have told you that you are a very simple person , '' she said . 
Even you are not given to intrigues . 
I thank you for rescuing me . 
'' I flushed more hotly than before . 
I never expected to see you , '' I said . 
It must have been a shock , '' she said . 
I had my hand in my coat I fully intended to give her the miniature . 
It was my plain duty . 
And suddenly , overwhelmed , I remembered that it was wrapped in Polly Ann's silk handkerchief . 
Madame la Vicomtesse remained for a moment where she was . 
Do not do anything until the morning , '' she said . 
You must go back to your lodgings at once . 
'' That would be to lose time , '' I answered . 
You must think of yourself a little , '' she said . 
I have heard that two cases of the yellow fever have broken out this afternoon . 
And you , who are not used to the climate , must not be out after dark . 
'' And you ? '' I said . 
I am used to it , '' she replied I have been here three months . 
Lest anything should happen , it might be well for you to give me your address . 
'' I am with Madame Gravois , in the Rue Bienville . 
'' Madame Gravois , in the Rue Bienville , '' she repeated . 
'' She courtesied and went swiftly into Mrs. Temple's room . 
Seizing my hat , I opened the door and found myself in the dark street . 
CHAPTER VII THE DISPOSAL OF THE SIEUR DE ST . 
Gre I had met Helene de St . 
After all , what did it matter what she thought , Madame la Vicomtesse d'Ivry le Tour ? I had never shone , and it was rather late to begin . 
But I possessed , at least , average common sense , and I had given no proof even of this . 
I wandered on , not heeding the command which she had given me , to go home . 
The scent of camellias and magnolias floated on the heavy air of the night from the court yards , reminding me of her . 
Laughter and soft voices came from the galleries . 
The cabarets echoed , and behind the tight blinds lines of light showed where the Creole gentry gamed at their tables , perchance in the very clubs Madame la Vicomtesse had mentioned . 
The moon , in her first quarter , floated in a haze . 
Washed by her light , the quaintly wrought balconies and heavy tiled roofs of the Spanish buildings , risen from the charred embers , took on a touch of romance . 
I paused once with a twinge of remembrance before the long line of the Ursuline convent , with its latticed belfry against the sky . 
There was the lodge , with its iron gates shut , and the wall which Nick had threatened to climb . 
I came to the rambling market stalls , casting black shadows on the river road , empty now , to be filled in the morning with shouting marchands . 
The promenade under the willows was deserted , the great river stretched away under the moon towards the forest line of the farther shore , filmy and indistinct . 
A black wisp of smoke rose from the gunwale of a flatboat , and I stopped to listen to the weird song of a negro , which I have heard many times since . 
Twice he paused to look behind him , and when he reached the corner of the street he stopped for some time to survey the Governor's house opposite . 
Suddenly I was on my feet , every sense alert , staring . 
In the moonlight , made milky by the haze , he was indistinct . 
And yet I could have taken oath that the square , diminutive figure , with the head set forward on the shoulders , was Gignoux's . 
If this man were not Gignoux , then the Lord had cast two in a strange mould . 
One wore a long Spanish cloak , and the other a uniform that I could not make out . 
A word was spoken , and then my man was ambling across to meet them , and the three walked away up Toulouse Street . 
I was in a fire of conjecture . 
I did not dare to pass the sentry and follow them , so I made round as fast as I could by the Rue St . 
Pierre , which borders the Place d'Armes , and then crossed to Toulouse again by Chartres . 
The three were nowhere to be seen . 
Madame Gravois was awaiting me . 
Monsieur Vigo had called , and there was a note . 
A note ? It was a small note . 
I glanced stupidly at the seal , recognized the swan of the St . 
Gre crest , broke it , and read Mr. Ritchie will confer a favor von la Vicomtesse d'Ivry le Tour if he will come to Monsieur de St . 
Gre's house at eight to morrow morning . 
'' I bade the reluctant Madame Gravois good night , gained my room , threw off my clothes , and covered myself with the mosquito bar . 
There was no question of sleep , for the events of the day and surmises for the morrow tortured me as I tossed in the heat . 
Had the man been Gignoux ? If so , he was in league with Carondelet's police . 
I believed him fully capable of this . 
And if he knew Nick's whereabouts and St . 
Gre's , they would both be behind the iron gateway of the calabozo in the morning . 
Monsieur Vigo had pointed out to me that day the gloomy , heavy walled prison in the rear of the Cabildo , ay , and he had spoken of its instruments of torture . 
she had been more industrious than I. I fell at length into a fevered sleep , and awoke , athirst , with the light trickling through my lattices . 
Contrary to Madame Gravois's orders , I had opened the glass of my window . 
Glancing at my watch , which I had bought in Philadelphia , I saw that the hands pointed to half after seven . 
I did not wake Monsieur , '' she said , for he was tired . 
'' She gave me another dose of the medicine , made me drink two cups of coffee , and then I started out with all despatch for the House of the Lions . 
As I turned into the Rue Chartres I saw ahead of me four horses , with their bridles bunched and held by a negro lad , waiting in the street . 
Yes , they were in front of the house . 
As I reached the gallery Madame la Vicomtesse , gowned in brown linen for riding , rose quickly from her chair and came forward to meet me . 
You have news ? '' I asked , as I took her hand . 
I have the kind of news I expected , '' she answered , a smile tempering the gravity of her face Auguste is , as usual , in need of money . 
'' Then you have found them , '' I answered , my voice betraying my admiration for the feat . 
Madame la Vicomtesse shrugged her shoulders slightly . 
I did nothing , '' she said . 
From what you told me , I suspected that as soon as Auguste reached Louisiana he would have a strong desire to go away again . 
This is undoubtedly what has happened . 
In any event , I knew that he would want money , and that he would apply to a source which has hitherto never failed him . 
'' Mademoiselle Antoinette ! '' I said . 
Precisely , '' answered Madame la Vicomtesse . 
When I reached home last night I questioned Antoinette , and I discovered that by a singular chance a message from Auguste had already reached her . 
'' Where is he ? '' I demanded . 
I do not know , '' she replied . 
But he will be behind the hedge of the garden at Les Iles at eleven o'clock unless he has lost before then his love of money . 
'' Which is to say '' He will be there unless he is dead . 
That is why I sent for you , Monsieur . 
'' She glanced at me . 
Sometimes it is convenient to have a man . 
Then I smiled , the affair was so ridiculously simple . 
Gre ? '' I asked . 
Has been gone for a week with Madame to visit the estimable Monsieur Poydras at Pointe Coupee . 
Then she turned to me again . 
Are you prepared to ride with Antoinette and me to Les Iles , Monsieur ? '' she asked . 
I am , '' I answered . 
It must have been my readiness that made her smile . 
Then her eyes rested on mine . 
You look tired , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said . 
You did not obey me and go home last night . 
'' How did you know that ? '' I asked , with a thrill at her interest . 
Because Madame Gravois told my messenger that you were out . 
You must take care of yourself , '' she said briefly . 
Come , there are some things which I wish to say to you before Antoinette is ready . 
'' She led me toward the end of the gallery , where a bright screen of morning glories shaded us from the sun . 
But we had scarce reached the place ere the sound of steps made us turn , and there was Mademoiselle Antoinette herself facing us . 
I went forward a few steps , hesitated , and bowed . 
She courtesied , my name faltering on her lips . 
Yes , it was Antoinette , not the light hearted girl whom we had heard singing Ma luron'' in the garden , but a woman now with a strange beauty that astonished me . 
Antoinette had inherited the energies as well as the features of the St . 
Gre's , yet there was a painful moment as she stood there , striving to put down the agitation the sight of me gave her . 
As for me , I was bereft of speech , not knowing what to say or how far to go . 
My last thought was of the remarkable quality in this woman before me which had held her true to Mrs. Temple , and which sent her so courageously to her duty now . 
Madame la Vicomtesse , as I had hoped , relieved the situation . 
She knew how to broach a dreaded subject . 
Mr. Ritchie is going with us , Antoinette , '' she said . 
It is perhaps best to explain everything to him before we start . 
I was about to tell you , Mr. Ritchie , '' she continued , turning to me , that Auguste has given no hint in his note of Mr. Temple's presence in Louisiana . 
And yet you told me that they were to have come here together . 
'' Yes , '' I answered , and I have no reason to think they have separated . 
'' I was merely going to suggest , '' said the Vicomtesse , firmly , I was merely going to suggest the possibility of our meeting Mr. Temple with Auguste . 
'' It was Antoinette who answered , with a force that revealed a new side of her character . 
Mr. Temple will not be there , '' she said , flashing a glance upon us . 
Do you think he would come to me ? '' Helene laid her hand upon the girl's arm . 
My dear , I think nothing , '' she said quietly but it is best for us to be prepared against any surprise . 
Remember that I do not know Mr. Temple , and that you have not seen him for five years . 
'' It is not like him , you know it is not like him , '' exclaimed Antoinette , looking at me . 
I know it is not like him , Mademoiselle , '' I replied . 
Madame la Vicomtesse , from behind the girl , gave me a significant look . 
I wish you to realize , Antoinette , before you decide to go , that you may meet Mr. Temple . 
Would it not be better to let Mr. Ritchie go alone ? I am sure that we could find no better emissary . 
'' Auguste is here , '' said Antoinette . 
I may never see him again . 
He may be ill , he may be starving and I know that he is in trouble . 
whether Mr. Temple is with him or not , I mean to go . 
'' Then it would be well to start , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Deftly dropping her veil , she picked up a riding whip that lay on the railing and descended the stairs to the courtyard . 
As we came through the archway I saw Andre , Monsieur de St . 
Gre's mulatto , holding open the wicket for us to pass . 
Turning to the right beyond the cool garden of the Ursulines , past the yellow barracks , we came to the river front beside the fortifications . 
A score of negroes were sweating there in the sun , swinging into position the long logs for the palisades , nearly completed . 
They were like those of Kaskaskia and our own frontier forts in Kentucky , with a forty foot ditch in front of them . 
Seated on a horse talking to the overseer was a fat little man in white linen who pulled off his hat and bowed profoundly to the ladies . 
His face gave me a start , and then I remembered that I had seen him only the day before , resplendent , coming out of church . 
He was the Baron de Carondelet . 
There was a sentry standing under a crape myrtle where the Royal Road ran through the gateway . 
Behind him was a diminutive five sided brick fort with a dozen little cannon on top of it . 
The sentry came forward , brought his musket to a salute , and halted before my horse . 
You will have to show your passport , '' murmured Madame la Vicomtesse . 
I drew the document from my pocket . 
It was signed by De Lemos , and duly countersigned by the officer of the port . 
The man bowed , and I passed on . 
It was a strange , silent ride through the stinging heat to Les Iles , the brown dust hanging behind us like a cloud , to settle slowly on the wayside shrubbery . 
Across the levee bank the river was low , listless , giving off hot breath like a monster in distress . 
The forest pools were cracked and dry , the Spanish moss was a haggard gray , and under the sun was the haze which covered the land like a saffron mantle . 
From time to time I was roused into admiration of the horsemanship of Madame la Vicomtesse , for the restive Texas pony which she rode was stung to madness by the flies . 
Antoinette was the first to dismount , and passed in silence through the group of surprised house servants gathering at the door . 
I assisted the Vicomtesse , who paused to bid the negroes disperse , and we lingered for a moment on the gallery together . 
Poor Antoinette ! '' she said , I wish we might have saved her this . 
'' She looked up at me . 
How she defended him ! '' she exclaimed . 
She loves him , '' I answered . 
I suppose there is no help for it , '' she said . 
But it is very difficult not to be angry with Mr. Temple . 
The girl cared for his mother , gave her a home , clung to her when he and the world would have cast her off , sacrificed her happiness for them both . 
If I see him , I believe I shall shake him . 
And if he doesn't fall down on his knees to her , I shall ask the Baron to hang him . 
We must bring him to his senses , Mr. Ritchie . 
He must not leave Louisiana until he sees her . 
Then he will marry her . 
'' She paused , scrutinized me in her quick way , and added You see that I take your estimation of his character . 
You ought to be flattered . 
'' I am flattered by any confidence you repose in me , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
I was not flattered then , but cursed myself for the quaint awkwardness in my speech that amused her . 
And she was astonishingly quick to perceive my moods . 
There , don't be angry . 
You will never be a courtier , my honest friend , and you may thank God for it . 
How sweet the shrubs are ! Your chief business in life seems to be getting people out of trouble , and I am going to help you with this case . 
'' It was my turn to laugh . 
You are going to help ! '' I exclaimed . 
My services have been heavy , so far . 
'' You should not walk around at night , '' she replied irrelevantly . 
Suddenly I remembered Gignoux , but even as I was about to tell her of the incident Antoinette appeared in the doorway . 
She was very pale , but her lips were set with excitement and her eyes shone strangely . 
She was still in her riding gown , in her hand she carried a leather bag , and behind her stood Andre with a bundle . 
Quick ! '' she said we are wasting time , and he may be gone . 
'' Checking an exclamation which could hardly have been complimentary to Auguste , the Vicomtesse crossed quickly to her and put her arm about her . 
We will follow you , mignonne , '' she said in French . 
Must you come ? '' said Antoinette , appealingly . 
He may not appear if he sees any one . 
'' We shall have to risk that , '' said the Vicomtesse , dryly , with a glance at me . 
You shall not go alone , but we will wait a few moments at the hedge . 
Then , with a little cry , we saw her run forward into the arms of Auguste de St . 
It was a pitiful thing to look upon . 
Antoinette had led her brother to the seat under the oak . 
Auguste rose with an oath , and then stood facing his cousin like a man struck dumb , his hands dropped . 
He was a sorry sight indeed , unshaven , unkempt , dark circles under his eyes , clothes torn . 
Helene ! You here in America ! '' he cried in French , staring at her . 
Yes , Auguste , '' she replied quite simply , I am here . 
'' He would have come towards her , but there was a note in her voice which arrested him . 
And Monsieur le Vicomte Henri ? '' he said . 
I found myself listening tensely for the answer . 
Henri is in Austria , fighting for his King , I hope , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
So Madame la Vicomtesse is a refugee , '' he said with a bow and a smile that made me very angry . 
Gre ! '' I asked . 
At the sound of my voice he started and gave back , for he had not perceived me . 
He recovered his balance , such as it was , instantly . 
Monsieur seems to take an extraordinary interest in my affairs , '' he said jauntily . 
Only when they are to the detriment of other persons who are my friends , '' I said . 
Monsieur has intruded in a family matter , '' said Auguste , grandly , still in French . 
By invitation of those most concerned , Monsieur , '' I answered , for I could have throttled him . 
He had learned well that effrontery is often the best weapon of an adventurer . 
He turned from me disdainfully , petulantly , and addressed the Vicomtesse once more . 
I wish to be alone with Antoinette , '' he said . 
No doubt , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
I demand it , '' said Auguste . 
The demand is not granted , '' said the Vicomtesse that is why we have come . 
Your sister has already made enough sacrifices for you . 
I know you , Monsieur Auguste de St . 
Gre , '' she continued with quiet contempt . 
It is not for love of Antoinette that you have sought this meeting . 
'' It was Antoinette who spoke . 
She had risen , and was standing behind Auguste . 
She still held the leather bag in her hand . 
Perhaps the sum is not enough , '' she said he has to get to France . 
Perhaps we could borrow more until my father comes home . 
'' She looked questioningly at us . 
Madame la Vicomtesse was truly a woman of decision . 
Without more ado she took the bag from Antoinette's unresisting hands and put it into mine . 
I was no less astonished than the rest of them . 
Mr. Ritchie will keep this until the negotiations are finished , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Negotiations ! '' cried Auguste , beside himself . 
This is insolence , Madame . 
'' Be careful , sir , '' I said . 
Auguste ! '' cried Antoinette , putting her hand on his arm . 
Why did you tell them ? '' he demanded , turning on her . 
Because I trust them , Auguste , '' Antoinette answered . 
She spoke without anger , as one whose sorrow has put her beyond it . 
Her speech had a dignity and force which might have awed a worthier man . 
His disappointment and chagrin brought him beyond bounds . 
Ha ! '' he said dramatically , I see , they seek my destruction . 
This man'' pointing at me is a Federalist , and Madame la Vicomtesse'' he bowed ironically is a Royalist . 
'' Pish ! '' said the Vicomtesse , impatiently , it would be an easy matter to have you sent to the Morro a word to Monsieur de Carondelet , Auguste . 
'' It seems to me that Mr. Ritchie and his friends have already brought sufficient misfortune on the family . 
'' It was a villanous speech . 
Antoinette turned away , her shoulders quivering , and I took a step towards him but Madame la Vicomtesse made a swift gesture , and I stopped , I know not why . 
She gave an exclamation so sharp that he flinched physically , as though he had been struck . 
But it was characteristic of her that when she began to speak , her words cut rather than lashed . 
Gre , '' she said , I know you . 
The Tribunal is merciful compared to you . 
There is no one on earth whom you would not torture for your selfish ends , no one whom you would not sell without compunction for your pleasure . 
There are things that a woman should not mention , and yet I would tell them without shame to your face were it not for your sister . 
If it were not for her , I would not have you in my presence . 
Shall I speak of your career in France ? There is Valenciennes , for example '' She stopped abruptly . 
The man was gray , but not on his account did the Vicomtesse stay her speech . 
I , too , forgot Auguste . 
But no rebuke , however stinging , could make him forget himself , and before we realized it he was talking again . 
He had changed his tactics . 
This is my home , '' he said , where I might expect shelter and comfort . 
You make me an outcast . 
'' Antoinette disengaged herself from Helene with a cry , but he turned away from her and shrugged . 
A stranger would have fared better . 
Perhaps you will have more consideration for a stranger . 
There is a French ship at the Terre aux Boeufs in the English Turn , which sails to night . 
Monsieur , '' he added meaningly , you have an interest in this . 
There are two of us to go . 
'' The amazing effrontery of this move made me gasp . 
Yet it was neither the Vicomtesse nor myself who answered him . 
We turned by common impulse to Antoinette , and she was changed . 
Her breath came quickly , her eyes flashed , her anger made her magnificent . 
It is not true , '' she cried , you know it is not true . 
'' He lifted his shoulders and smiled . 
You are my brother , and I am ashamed to acknowledge you . 
I was willing to give my last sou , to sell my belongings , to take from the poor to help you until you defamed a good man . 
You cannot make me believe , '' she cried , unheeding the color that surged into her cheeks , you cannot make me believe that he would use this money . 
You cannot make me believe it . 
'' Let us do him the credit of thinking that he means to repay it , '' said Auguste . 
Antoinette's eyes filled with tears , tears of pride , of humiliation , ay , and of an anger of which I had not thought her capable . 
She was indeed a superb creature then , a personage I had not imagined . 
Gathering up her gown , she passed Auguste and turned on him swiftly . 
If you were to bring that to him , '' she said , pointing to the bag in my hand , he would not so much as touch it . 
To morrow I shall go to the Ursulines , and I thank God I shall never see you again . 
I thank God I shall no longer be your sister . 
Give Monsieur the bundle , '' she said to the frightened Andre , who still stood by the hedge he may need food and clothes for his journey . 
We stood watching her until her gown had disappeared amongst the foliage . 
Andre came forward and held out the bundle to Auguste , who took it mechanically . 
Then Madame La Vicomtesse motioned to Andre to leave , and gave me a glance , and it was part of the deep understanding of her I had that I took its meaning . 
I had my forebodings at what this last conversation with Auguste might bring forth , and I wished heartily that we were rid of him . 
'' He turned and glared at me , some devilish retort on his lips which he held back . 
I shall want two thousand livres Monsieur it was the sum I asked for . 
'' It is not a question of what you asked for , '' I answered . 
Since when did Monsieur assume this intimate position in my family ? '' he said , glancing at the Vicomtesse . 
Gre , '' I replied with difficulty , you will confine yourself to the matter in hand . 
You are in no situation to demand terms you must take or leave what is offered you . 
Last night the man called Gignoux , who was of your party , was at the Governor's house . 
'' At this he started perceptibly . 
Ha , I thought he was a traitor , '' he cried . 
Strangely enough , he did not doubt my word in this . 
I am surprised that your Father's house has not been searched this morning , '' I continued , astonished at my own moderation . 
The sentiments of the Baron de Carondelet are no doubt known to you , and you are aware that your family or your friends cannot save you if you are arrested . 
You may have this money on two conditions . 
The first is that you leave the province immediately . 
The second , that you reveal the whereabouts of Mr. Nicholas Temple . 
'' Monsieur is very kind , '' he replied , and added the taunt , and well versed in the conduct of affairs of money . 
'' Does Monsieur de St . 
Gre accept ? '' I asked . 
He threw out his hands with a gesture of resignation . 
Who am I to accept ? '' he said , a fugitive , an outcast . 
And I should like to remind Monsieur that time passes . 
'' It is a sensible observation , '' said I , meaning that it was the first . 
His sudden docility made me suspicious . 
What preparations have you made to go ? '' They are not elaborate , Monsieur , but they are complete . 
When I leave you I step into a pirogue which is tied to the river bank . 
'' Ah , '' I replied . 
And Mr. Temple ? '' Madame la Vicomtesse smiled , for Auguste was fairly caught . 
He had not the astuteness to be a rogue oddly he had the sense to know that he could fool us no longer . 
Temple is at Lamarque's , '' he answered sullenly . 
I glanced questioningly at the Vicomtesse . 
Lamarque is an old pensioner of Monsieur de St . 
Gre's , '' said she he has a house and an arpent of land not far below here . 
'' I reflected a moment on this , for it was another sensible remark . 
It is indeed no concern of yours , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
And now , '' he said , I take it that there are no further conscientious scruples against my receiving this paltry sum . 
'' I will go with you to your pirogue , '' I answered , when you embark you shall have it . 
'' I , too , will go , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
You overwhelm me with civility , Madame , '' said the Sieur de St . 
Lead the way , Monsieur , '' I said . 
He took his bundle , and started off down the garden path with a grand air . 
I looked at the Vicomtesse inquiringly , and there was laughter in her eyes . 
I must show you the way to Lamarque's . 
'' And then she whispered , You have done well , Mr. Ritchie . 
'' I did not return her look , but waited until she took the path ahead of me . 
In silence we followed Auguste through the depths of the woods , turning here and there to avoid a fallen tree or a sink hole where the water still remained . 
At length we came out in the glare of the sun and crossed the dusty road to the levee bank . 
Some forty yards below us was the canoe , and we walked to it , still in silence . 
Auguste flung in his bundle , and turned to us . 
Perhaps Monsieur is satisfied , '' he said . 
I handed him the bag , and he took it with an elaborate air of thankfulness . 
Nay , the rascal opened it as if to assure himself that he was not tricked at the last . 
At the sight of the gold and silver which Antoinette had hastily collected , he turned to Madame la Vicomtesse . 
'' I could have flung him into the river , money bag and all . 
But Madame la Vicomtesse made him a courtesy there on the levee bank , and said sweetly That is very good of you , Auguste . 
'' As for you , Monsieur , '' he said , and now his voice shook with uncontrolled rage , I am in no condition to repay your kindnesses . 
But I have no doubt that you will not object to keeping the miniature a while longer . 
'' I was speechless with anger and shame , and though I felt the eyes of the Vicomtesse upon me , I dared not look at her . 
I heard Auguste but indistinctly as he continued Should you need the frame , Monsieur , you will doubtless find it still with Monsieur Isadore , the Jew , in the Rue Toulouse . 
'' With that he leaped into his boat , seized the paddle , and laughed as he headed into the current . 
How long I stood watching him as he drifted lazily in the sun I know not , but at length the voice of Madame la Vicomtesse aroused me . 
He is a pleasant person , '' she said . 
CHAPTER VIII AT LAMARQUE'S Until then it seemed as if the sun had gotten into my , brain and set it on fire . 
Her words had the strange effect of clearing my head , though I was still in as sad a predicament as ever I found myself . 
There was the thing in my pocket , still wrapped in Polly Ann's handkerchief . 
I glanced at the Vicomtesse shyly , and turned away again . 
Her face was all repressed laughter , the expression I knew so well . 
I think we should feel better in the shade , Mr. Ritchie , '' she said in English , and , leaping lightly down from the bank , crossed the road again . 
I followed her , perforce . 
I will show you the way to Lamarque's , '' she said . 
Madame la Vicomtesse ! '' I cried . 
Had she no curiosity ? Was she going to let pass what Auguste had hinted ? Lifting up her skirts , she swung round and faced me . 
In her eyes was a calmness more baffling than the light I had seen there but a moment since . 
How to begin I knew not , and yet I was launched . 
Madame la Vicomtesse , there was once a certain miniature painted of you . 
'' By Boze , Monsieur , '' she answered , readily enough . 
The embarrassment was all on my side . 
We spoke of it last evening . 
I remember well when it was taken . 
Ah , those were happy days ! Her Majesty was very angry with me . 
'' And why ? '' I asked , forgetful of my predicament . 
For sending it to Louisiana , to Antoinette . 
'' And why did you send it ? '' A whim , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
I had always written twice a year either to Monsieur de St . 
Gre or Antoinette , and although I had never seen them , I loved them . 
Perhaps it was because they had the patience to read my letters and the manners to say they liked them . 
'' Surely not , Madame , '' I said . 
Gre spoke often to me of the wonderful pictures you drew of the personages at court . 
'' Madame la Vicomtesse had an answer on the tip of her tongue . 
I know now that she spared me . 
And what of this miniature , Monsieur ? '' she asked . 
What became of it after you restored it to its rightful owner ? '' I flushed furiously and fumbled in my pocket . 
I obtained it again , Madame , '' I said . 
You obtained it ! '' she cried , I am not sure to this day whether in consternation or jest . 
In passing , it was not just what I wanted to say . 
I meant to give it you last night , '' I said . 
And why did you not ? '' she demanded severely . 
I felt her eyes on me , and it seemed to me as if she were looking into my very soul . 
I thank Heaven that she did not laugh . 
Indeed , she seemed to be far from laughter . 
You have taken good care of it , Monsieur , '' she said . 
'' It was not mine , Madame , '' I answered . 
And if it had been ? '' she asked . 
It was a strange prompting . 
If it had been , I could have taken no better care of it , '' I answered , and I held it towards her . 
And the handkerchief ? '' she said . 
The handkerchief was Polly Ann's , '' I answered . 
She stopped to pick a second flower that had grown by the first . 
Who is Polly Ann ? '' she said . 
When I was eleven years of age and ran away from Temple Bow after my father died , Polly Ann found me in the hills . 
When she married Tom McChesney they took me across the mountains into Kentucky with them . 
Polly Ann has been more than a mother to me . 
'' Oh ! '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
Then she looked at me with a stranger expression than I had yet seen in her face . 
She thrust the miniature in her gown , turned , and walked in silence awhile . 
Then she said So Auguste sold it again ? '' Yes , '' I said . 
He seems to have found a ready market only in you , '' said the Vicomtesse , without turning her head . 
Here we are at Lamarque's . 
There was a little flower garden , too , and an orchard . 
A path of beaten earth led to the door , which was open . 
Seated at a rude table was Lamarque himself , his hoary head bent over the cards he held in his hand . 
Opposite him was Mr. Nicholas Temple , in the act of playing the ace of spades . 
I think that it was the laughter of Madame la Vicomtesse that first disturbed them , and even then she had time to turn to me . 
I like your cousin , '' she whispered . 
Is that you , St . 
Gre ? '' said Nick . 
I wish to the devil you would learn not to sneak . 
Where the deuce did you go to ? '' But Lamarque had seen the lady , stared at her wildly for a moment , and rose , dropping his cards on the floor . 
He bowed humbly , not without trepidation . 
Madame la Vicomtesse ! '' he said . 
By this time Nick had risen , and he , too , was staring at her . 
How he managed to appear so well dressed was a puzzle to me . 
Madame , '' he said , bowing , I beg your pardon . 
I thought you were that I beg your pardon . 
'' I understand your feelings , sir , '' answered the Vicomtesse as she courtesied . 
Egad , '' said Nick , and looked at her again . 
Egad , I'll be hanged if it's not '' It was the first time I had seen the Vicomtesse in confusion . 
And indeed if it were confusion she recovered instantly . 
You will probably be hanged , sir , if you do not mend your company , '' she said . 
Do you not think so , Mr. Ritchie ? '' Davy ! '' he cried . 
So you have followed me here , old faithful ! Madame , '' he added , turning to the Vicomtesse , there is some excuse for my getting into trouble . 
'' What excuse , Monsieur ? '' she asked . 
She was smiling , yet looking at us with shining eyes . 
The pleasure of having Mr. Ritchie get me out , '' he answered . 
He has never failed me . 
'' You are far from being out of this , '' I said . 
If the Baron de Carondelet does not hang you or put you in the Morro , you will not have me to thank . 
It will be Madame la Vicomtesse d'Ivry le Tour . 
'' Madame la Vicomtesse ! '' exclaimed Nick , puzzled . 
May I present to you , Madame , Mr. Nicholas Temple ? '' I asked . 
Nick bowed , and she courtesied again . 
So Monsieur le Baron is really after us , '' said Nick . 
He opened his eyes , slapped his knee , and laughed . 
That may account for the Citizen Captain de St . 
Gre's absence , '' he said . 
By the way , Davy , you haven't happened by any chance to meet him ? The Vicomtesse and I exchanged a look of understanding . 
Relief was plain on her face . 
It was she who answered . 
We have met him by chance , Monsieur . 
He has just left for Terre aux Boeufs . 
'' Terre aux Boeufs ! What the dev I beg your pardon , Madame la Vicomtesse , but you give me something of a surprise . 
Is there another conspiracy at Terre aux Boeufs , or does somebody live there who has never before lent Auguste money ? '' Madame la Vicomtesse laughed . 
Then she grew serious again . 
You did not know where he had gone ? '' she said . 
I did not even know he had gone , '' said Nick . 
Citizen Lamarque and I were having a little game of piquet for vegetables . 
Eh , citizen ? '' Madame la Vicomtesse laughed again , and once more the shade of sadness came into her eyes . 
They are the same the world over , '' she said , not to me , nor yet to any one there . 
And I knew that she was thinking of her own kind in France , who faced the guillotine without sense of danger . 
You may be interested to know , Mr. Temple , '' she added , that Auguste is on his way to the English Turn to take ship for France . 
'' Nick regarded her for a moment , and then his face lighted up with that smile which won every one he met , which inevitably made them smile back at him . 
The news is certainly unexpected , Madame , '' he said . 
But then , after one has travelled much with Auguste it is difficult to take a great deal of interest in him . 
Am I to be sent to France , too ? '' he asked . 
Not if it can be helped , '' replied the Vicomtesse , seriously . 
Mr. Ritchie will tell you , however , that you are in no small danger . 
Monsieur le Baron de Carondelet considers that the intrigues of the French Revolutionists in Louisiana have already robbed him of several years of his life . 
He is not disposed to be lenient towards persons connected with that cause . 
'' What have you been doing since you arrived here on this ridiculous mission ? '' I demanded impatiently . 
My cousin is a narrow man , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' said Nick . 
We enjoy ourselves in different ways . 
I thought there might be some excitement in this matter , and I was sadly mistaken . 
'' It is not over yet , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
And Davy , '' continued Nick , bowing to me , gets his pleasures and excitement by extracting me from my various entanglements . 
Well , there is not much to tell . 
Gre and I were joined above Natchez by that little pig , Citizen Gignoux , and we shot past De Lemos in the night . 
Since then we have been permitted to sleep no more at various plantations . 
We have been waked up at barbarous hours in the morning and handed on , as it were . 
They were all fond of us , but likewise they were all afraid of the Baron . 
What day is to day ? Monday ? Then it was on Saturday that we lost Gignoux . 
'' I have reason to think that he has already sold out to the Baron , '' I put in . 
Eh ? '' I saw him in communication with the police at the Governor's hotel last night , '' I answered . 
Nick was silent for a moment . 
Well , '' he said , that may make some excitement . 
I wonder why Auguste didn't think of doing that , '' he said . 
And now , what ? '' How did you get to this house ? '' I said . 
We came down on Saturday night , after we had lost Gignoux above the city . 
'' Do you know where you are ? '' I asked . 
Not I , '' said Nick . 
I have been playing piquet with Lamarque most of the time since I arrived . 
He is one of the pleasantest men I have met in Louisiana , although a little taciturn , as you perceive , and more than a little deaf . 
I think he does not like Auguste . 
He seems to have known him in his youth . 
'' Madame la Vicomtesse looked at him with interest . 
You are at Les Iles , Nick , '' I said you are on Monsieur de St . 
Gre's plantation , and within a quarter of a mile of his house . 
'' His face became grave all at once . 
He seized me by both shoulders , and looked into my face . 
You say that we are at Les Iles ? '' he repeated slowly . 
I nodded , seeing the deception which Auguste had evidently practised in order to get him here . 
Then Nick dropped his arms , went to the door , and stood for a long time with his back turned to us , looking out over the fields . 
When finally he spoke it was in the tone he used in anger . 
If I had him now , I think I would kill him , '' he said . 
Auguste had deluded him in other things , had run away and deserted him in a strange land . 
But this matter of bringing him to Les Iles was past pardon . 
It was another face he turned to the Vicomtesse , a stronger face , a face ennobled by a just anger . 
Madame la Vicomtesse , '' he said , I have a vague notion that you are related to Monsieur de St . 
I give you my word of honor as a gentleman that I had no thought of trespassing upon him in any way . 
'' Mr. Temple , we were so sure of that Mr. Ritchie and I that we should not have sought for you here otherwise , '' she replied quickly . 
Then she glanced at me as though seeking my approval for her next move . 
It was characteristic of her that she did not now shirk a task imposed by her sense of duty . 
We have little time , Mr. Temple , and much to say . 
Perhaps you will excuse us , Lamarque , '' she added graciously , in French . 
Madame la Vicomtesse ! '' said the old man . 
And , with the tact of his race , he bowed and retired . 
The Vicomtesse seated herself on one of the rude chairs , and looked at Nick curiously . 
There was no such thing as embarrassment in her manner , no trace of misgiving that she would not move properly in the affair . 
Knowing Nick as I did , the difficulty of the task appalled me , for no man was likelier than he to fly off at a misplaced word . 
Her beginning was so bold that I held my breath , knowing full well as I did that she had chosen the very note . 
Sit down , Mr. Temple , '' she said . 
I wish to speak to you about your mother . 
'' He stopped like a man who had been struck , straightened , and stared at her as though he had not taken her meaning . 
Then he swung on me . 
Your mother is in New Orleans , '' I said . 
I would have told you in Louisville had you given me the chance . 
'' It is an interesting piece of news , David , '' he answered , which you might have spared me . 
Mrs. Temple did not think herself necessary to my welfare when I was young , and now I have learned to live without her . 
'' Is there no such thing as expiation , Monsieur ? '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Madame , '' he said , she made me what I am , and when I might have redeemed myself she came between me and happiness . 
'' Monsieur , '' said the Vicomtesse , have you ever considered her sufferings ? '' He looked at the Vicomtesse with a new interest . 
She was not so far beyond his experience as mine . 
Her sufferings ? '' he repeated , and smiled . 
Madame la Vicomtesse should know them , '' I interrupted and without heeding her glance of protest I continued , It is she who has cared for Mrs. Temple . 
'' You , Madame ! '' he exclaimed . 
Do not deny your own share in it , Mr. Ritchie , '' she answered . 
As for me , Monsieur , '' she went on , turning to Nick , I have done nothing that was not selfish . 
I have been in the world , I have lived my life , misfortunes have come upon me too . 
My visits to your mother have been to me a comfort , a pleasure , for she is a rare person . 
'' I have never found her so , Madame , '' he said briefly . 
I am sure it is your misfortune rather than your fault , Mr. Temple . 
It is because you do not know her now . 
'' Again he looked at me , puzzled , uneasy , like a man who would run if he could . 
The Vicomtesse began to speak again , evenly , gently . 
And , '' she added , with a smile , it would be much more comfortable for us both if you sat down . 
'' He obeyed her without a word . 
No wonder Madame la Vicomtesse had had an influence at court . 
There ! '' she said . 
If any reference I am about to make gives you pain , I am sorry . 
It is on the south side , next to the corner of the Rue St . 
There she lives absolutely alone , except for a servant . 
Mr. Clark , who has charge of her affairs , was the only person she allowed to visit her . 
For her pride , however misplaced , and for her spirit we must all admire her . 
The friend who discovered where she was , who went to her and implored Mrs. Temple to let her stay , she refused . 
'' The friend ? '' he repeated in a low tone . 
I scarcely dared to glance at the Vicomtesse . 
Yes , it was Antoinette , '' she answered . 
He did not reply , but his eyes fell . 
Antoinette went to her , would have comforted her , would have cared for her , but your mother sent her away . 
For five years she has lived there , Mr. Temple , alone with her past , alone with her sorrow and remorse . 
You must draw the picture for yourself . 
If the world has a more terrible punishment , I have not heard of it . 
And when , some months ago , I came , and Antoinette sent me to her '' Sent you to her ! '' he said , raising his head quickly . 
Under another name than my own , '' Helene continued , apparently taking no notice of his interruption . 
She leaned toward him and her voice faltered . 
I found your mother dying . 
'' He said nothing , but got to his feet and walked slowly to the door , where he stood looking out again . 
I felt for him , I would have gone to him then had it not been for the sense in me that Helene did not wish it . 
As for Helene , she sat waiting for him to turn back to her , and at length he did . 
Yes ? '' he said . 
It is her heart , Mr. Temple , that we fear the most . 
Last night I thought the end had come . 
It cannot be very far away now . 
Sorrow and remorse have killed her , Monsieur . 
The one thing that she has prayed for through the long nights is that she might see you once again and obtain your forgiveness . 
God Himself does not withhold forgiveness , Mr. Temple , '' said the Vicomtesse , gently . 
Shall any of us presume to ? '' A spasm of pain crossed his face , and then his expression hardened . 
I might have been a useful man , '' he said she ruined my life '' And you will allow her to ruin the rest of it ? '' asked the Vicomtesse . 
If you do not go to her and forgive her , you will remember it until you die , '' she said . 
He sank down on the chair opposite to her , his head bowed into his hands , his elbows on the table among the cards . 
At length I went and laid my hands upon his shoulder , and at my touch he started . 
Then he did a singular thing , an impulsive thing , characteristic of the old Nick I had known . 
He reached across the table and seized the hand of Madame la Vicomtesse . 
She did not resist , and her smile I shall always remember . 
It was the smile of a woman who has suffered , and understands . 
I will go to her , Madame ! '' he said , springing to his feet . 
I will go to her . 
'' She rose , too , he still clinging to her hand , she still unresisting . 
His eye fell upon me . 
Where is my hat , Davy ? '' he asked . 
The Vicomtesse withdrew her hand and looked at me . 
Alas , it is not quite so simple as that , Mr. Temple , '' she said Monsieur de Carondelet has first to be reckoned with . 
'' She is dying , you say ? then I will go to her . 
After that Monsieur de Carondelet may throw me into prison , may hang me , may do anything he chooses . 
But I will go to her . 
'' I glanced anxiously at the Vicomtesse , well knowing how wilful he was when aroused . 
Admiration was in her eyes , seeing that he was heedless of his own danger . 
You would not get through the gates of the city . 
Monsieur le Baron requires passports now , '' she said . 
At that he began to pace the little room , his hands clenched . 
I could use your passport , Davy , '' he cried . 
'' Pardon me , Mr. Temple , I do not think you could , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
I suppose the remark was not to be resisted . 
Then I will go to night , '' he said , with determination . 
It will be no trouble to steal into the city . 
You say the house has yellow and red tiles , and is near the Rue St . 
Philippe ? '' Helene laid her fingers on his arm . 
Listen , Monsieur , there is a better way , '' she said . 
Monsieur le Baron is doubtless very angry with you , and I am sure that this is chiefly because he does not know you . 
Pardon me if I say that he is not disposed to take your expedition any more seriously than is your own Federal government . 
The little Baron is irascible , choleric , stern , or else good natured , good hearted , and charitable , just as one happens to take him . 
As we say in France , it is not well to strike flint and steel in his presence . 
He might blow up and destroy one . 
I do not know how far things have gone , or what he may have heard . 
But suppose a person whom I have reason to believe he likes and trusts and respects , a person who understands his vagaries , should go to him on such an errand . 
'' And where is such a person to be found , '' said Nick , amused in spite of himself . 
Monsieur , she is before you , '' she said . 
He will have to be waked from his siesta , and he does not like that . 
'' But he will forgive you , '' said Nick , quick as a flash . 
I have reason to believe he will , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
Faith , '' cried Nick , he would not be flesh and blood if he didn't . 
'' At that the Vicomtesse laughed , and her eye rested judicially on me . 
I was standing rather glumly , I fear , in the corner . 
Are you going to take him with you ? '' said Nick . 
I was thinking of it , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Mr. Ritchie knows you , and he is such a reliable and reputable person . 
You should have seen him marching in a Jacobin procession , Madame , '' he said . 
He follows his friends into strange places , '' she retorted . 
And why not , Monsieur ? '' If I were captured here , I should get Monsieur de St . 
Gre into trouble and besides , '' he said , with a touch of coldness , I cannot be beholden to Monsieur de St . 
I cannot remain on his land . 
'' As for getting Monsieur de St . 
Gre into trouble , his own son could not involve him with the Baron , '' answered Madame la Vicomtesse . 
And it seems to me , Monsieur , that you are already so far beholden to Monsieur de St . 
Gre that you cannot quibble about going a little more into his debt . 
Come , Mr. Temple , how has Monsieur de St . 
Gre ever offended you ? '' Madame '' he began . 
Monsieur , '' she said , with an air not to be denied , I believe I can discern a point of honor as well as you . 
I fail to see that you have a case . 
'' He was indeed no match for her . 
He turned to me appealingly , his brows bent , but I had no mind to meddle . 
He swung back to her . 
But Madame ! '' he cried . 
She was arranging the cards neatly on the table . 
Monsieur , you are tiresome , '' she said . 
What is it now ? '' He took a step toward her , speaking in a low tone , his voice shaking . 
But , true to himself , he spoke plainly . 
As for me , I looked on frightened , as though watching a contest , almost agape to see what a clever woman could do . 
There is Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre '' Yes , there is Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre , '' repeated the Vicomtesse , toying with the cards . 
His face lighted , though his lips twitched with pain . 
She is still '' She is still Mademoiselle de St . 
Gre , Monsieur , if that is what you mean . 
'' And what will she think if I stay here ? '' Ah , do you care what she thinks , Mr. Temple ? '' said the Vicomtesse , raising her head quickly . 
From what I have heard , I should not have thought you could . 
'' God help me , '' he answered simply , I do care . 
'' Helene's eyes softened as she looked at him , and my pride in him was never greater than at that moment . 
Mr. Temple , '' she said gently , remain where you are and have faith in us . 
I begin to see now why you are so fortunate in your friends . 
'' Her glance rested for a brief instant on me . 
Mr. Ritchie and I will go to New Orleans , talk to the Baron , and send Andre at once with a message . 
If it is in our power , you shall see your mother very soon . 
'' She held out her hand to him , and he bent and kissed it reverently , with an ease I envied . 
He followed us to the door . 
And when the Vicomtesse had gone a little way down the path she looked at him over her shoulder . 
Do not despair , Mr. Temple , '' she said . 
It was an answer to a yearning in his face . 
He gripped me by the shoulders . 
God bless you , Davy , '' he whispered , and added , God bless you both . 
At last , when the perfumes of the flowers told us we were nearing the garden , she turned to me . 
I like Mr. Temple , '' she said , again . 
He is an honest gentleman , '' I answered . 
One meets very few of them , '' she said , speaking in a low voice . 
You and I will go to the Governor . 
And after that , have you any idea where you will go ? '' No , '' I replied , troubled by her regard . 
Then I will tell you . 
I intend to send you to Madame Gravois's , and she will compel you to go to bed and rest . 
I do not mean to allow you to kill yourself . 
We were followed by Andre and Madame's maid . 
Then you will wake him , '' said Madame la Vicomtesse . 
Wake Monsieur le Baron ! Bueno Dios , did Madame understand what it meant to wake his Excellency ? His Excellency would at first be angry , no doubt . 
Angry ? As an Andalusian bull , Madame . 
Once , when his Excellency had first come to the province , he , the orderly , had presumed to awake him . 
Assez ! '' said Madame , so suddenly that the man straightened and looked at her again . 
You will wake Monsieur le Baron , and tell him that Madame la Vicomtesse d'Ivry le Tour has something of importance to say to him . 
'' Madame had the air , and a title carried with a Spanish soldier in New Orleans in those days . 
I remember it vaguely , for my head was hot and throbbing from my exertions in such a climate . 
These doubtless opened on the Royal Road and looked across the levee esplanade on the waters of the Mississippi . 
Madame la Vicomtesse seated herself , and with a gesture which was an order bade me do likewise . 
He will be angry , the dear Baron , '' she said . 
He is harassed to death with republics . 
No offence , Mr. Ritchie . 
He is up at dawn looking to the forts and palisades to guard against such foolish enterprises as this of Mr. Temple's . 
And to be waked out of a well earned siesta to save a gentleman who has come here to make things unpleasant for him is carrying a joke a little far . 
I wondered whether this were birth , or training , or both , or a natural ability to cope with affairs . 
The women of her order had long been used to intercede with sovereigns , to play a part in matters of state . 
Suddenly I became aware that she was looking at me . 
What are you thinking of ? '' she demanded , and continued without waiting for a reply , you strange man . 
'' She lowered her eyes , but she did not seem to take offence . 
And you , '' she answered , are continually reminding me of an Englishman I knew when I was a girl . 
I was very fond of him . 
'' And what became of him ? '' I asked . 
Other questions rose to my lips , but I put them down . 
I will tell you , '' she answered , bending forward a little . 
He did something which I believe you might have done . 
A certain Marquis spoke lightly of a lady , an Englishwoman at our court , and my Englishman ran him through one morning at Versailles . 
'' She paused , and I saw that her breath was coming more quickly at the remembrance . 
And then ? '' He fled to England . 
He was a younger son , and poor . 
But his King heard of the affair , had it investigated , and restored him to the service . 
I have never seen him since , '' she said , but I have often thought of him . 
There , '' she added , after a silence , with a lightness which seemed assumed , I have given you a romance . 
His Excellency the Governor ! '' We rose , and Madame was courtesying and I was bowing to the little man . 
He was in uniform , his face perspiring in the creases , his plump calves stretching his white stockings to the full . 
Madame extended her hand and he kissed it , albeit he did not bend easily . 
He spoke in French , and his voice betrayed the fact that his temper was near slipping its leash . 
The Baron was a native of Flanders . 
To what happy circumstance do I owe the honor of this visit , Madame la Vicomtesse ? '' he asked . 
To a woman's whim , Monsieur le Baron , '' she answered , for a man would not have dared to disturb you . 
His first sensation was surprise . 
An American ! '' he said , in a tone that implied reproach to Madame la Vicomtesse for having fallen into such company . 
If the Baron took a like cognizance of all my countrymen who came to New Orleans , he was a busy man indeed . 
Yes , your Excellency , '' I answered . 
And you are a Federalist ? '' he said , though petulantly . 
I am , your Excellency . 
'' Is your nation to overrun the earth ? '' said the Baron . 
Every morning when I ride through the streets it seems to me that more Americans have come . 
Pardieu , I declare every day that , if it were not for the Americans , I should have ten years more of life ahead of me . 
'' I could not resist the temptation to glance at Madame la Vicomtesse . 
Her eyes , half closed , betrayed an amusement that was scarce repressed . 
Come , Monsieur le Baron , '' she said , you and I have like beliefs upon most matters . 
We have both suffered at the hands of people who have mistaken a fiend for a Lady . 
I can readily believe it . 
He at least has a negative knowledge , '' she replied . 
And he has brought into New Orleans no coins , boxes , or clocks against your Excellency's orders with the image and superscription of the Goddess in whose name all things are done . 
He has not sung Ca Ira' at the theatres , and he detests the tricolored cockades as much as you do . 
'' The Baron laughed in spite of himself , and began to thaw . 
There was a little more friendliness in his next glance at me . 
What images have you brought in , Mr. Ritchie ? '' he asked . 
We all worship the sex in some form , however misplaced our notions of it . 
'' There is not the least doubt that , for the sake of the Vicomtesse , he was trying to be genial , and that his remark was a purely random one . 
But the roots of my hair seemed to have taken fire . 
I saw the Baron as in a glass , darkly . 
But I kept my head , principally because the situation had elements of danger . 
The image of Madame la Vicomtesse , Monsieur , '' I said . 
Dame ! '' exclaimed his Excellency , eying me with a new interest , I did not suspect you of being a courtier . 
'' No more he is , Monsieur le Baron , '' said the Vicomtesse , for he speaks the truth . 
'' His Excellency looked blank . 
As for me , I held my breath , wondering what coup Madame was meditating . 
Mr. Ritchie brought down from Kentucky a miniature of me by Boze , that was painted in a costume I once wore at Chantilly . 
'' Comment ! diable , '' exclaimed the Baron . 
And how did such a thing get into Kentucky , Madame ? '' You have brought me to the point , '' she replied , which is no small triumph for your Excellency . 
Mr. Ritchie bought the miniature from that most estimable of my relations , Monsieur Auguste de St . 
'' The Baron sat down and began to fan himself . 
He even grew a little purple . 
He looked at Madame , sputtered , and I began to think that , if he didn't relieve himself , his head might blow off . 
As for the Vicomtesse , she wore an ingenuous air of detachment , and seemed supremely unconscious of the volcano by her side . 
So , Madame , '' cried the Governor at length , after I know not what repressions , you have come here in behalf of that of Auguste de St . 
'' The Baron started abruptly from his chair . 
I have heard of him , '' he cried Madame knows where he is ? '' I know where he is . 
It is that which I came to tell your Excellency . 
'' Hein ! '' said his Excellency , again nonplussed . 
You came to tell me where he is ? And where the the other one is ? '' Parfaitement , '' said Madame . 
But before I tell you where they are , I wish to tell you something about Mr. Temple . 
'' Madame , I know something of him already , '' said the Baron , impatiently . 
Ah , '' said she , from Gignoux . 
And what do you hear from Gignoux ? '' This was another shock , under which the Baron fairly staggered . 
Diable ! is Madame la Vicomtesse in the plot ? '' he cried . 
What does Madame know of Gignoux ? '' Madame's manner suddenly froze . 
I am likely to be in the plot , Monsieur , '' she said . 
I am likely to be in a plot which has for its furtherance that abominable anarchy which deprived me of my home and estates , of my relatives and friends and my sovereign . 
'' A thousand pardons , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' said the Baron , more at sea than ever . 
I have had much to do these last years , and the heat and the Republicans have got on my temper . 
Will Madame la Vicomtesse pray explain ? '' I was about to do so when your Excellency interrupted , '' said Madame . 
When he came to New Orleans some years ago he brought letters to Monsieur de St . 
Gre from Monsieur Gratiot and Colonel Chouteau of St . 
Louis , and he is known to Mr. Clark and to Monsieur Vigo . 
He is a Federalist , as you know , and has no sympathy with the Jacobins . 
'' Eh bien , Mr. Ritchie , '' said the Baron , getting his breath , you are fortunate in your advocate . 
Madame la Vicomtesse neglected to say that she was your friend , the greatest of all recommendations in my eyes . 
'' You are delightful , Monsieur le Baron , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Perhaps Mr. Ritchie can tell me something of this expedition , '' said the Baron , his eyes growing smaller as he looked at me . 
Willingly , '' I answered . 
Although I know that your Excellency is well informed , and that Monsieur Vigo has doubtless given you many of the details that I know . 
'' He interrupted me with a grunt . 
You Americans are clever people , Monsieur , '' he said you contrive to combine shrewdness with frankness . 
'' If I had anything to hide from your Excellency , I should not be here , '' I answered . 
The expedition , as you know , has been as much of a farce as Citizen Genet's commissions . 
'' So you were with Clark in Illinois ? '' said the Baron , craftily . 
Pardon me , Mr. Ritchie , but I should have said that you are too young . 
'' Monsieur Vigo will tell you that I was the drummer boy of the regiment , and a sort of ward of the Colonel's . 
I used to clean his guns and cook his food . 
'' And you did not see fit to follow your Colonel to Louisiana ? '' said his Excellency , for he had been trained in a service of suspicion . 
General Clark is not what he was , '' I replied , chafing a little at his manner your Excellency knows that , and I put loyalty to my government before friendship . 
And I might remind your Excellency that I am neither an adventurer nor a fool . 
'' The little Baron surprised me by laughing . 
His irritability and his good nature ran in streaks . 
There is no occasion to , Mr. Ritchie , '' he answered . 
I have seen something of men in my time . 
Fortunately the main spur of the adventurer's character is lacking in his case . 
I refer to the desire for money . 
, he will settle down and become a useful citizen of the United States . 
'' Pray proceed , Mr. Ritchie , '' said the Baron . 
I was surprised not to find him more restless , and in addition the glance of approbation which the Vicomtesse gave me spurred me on . 
So the mystery of that woman is cleared at last , '' he said , and turned to the Vicomtesse . 
I have learned that you have been a frequent visitor , Madame . 
'' Not a sparrow falls to the ground in Louisiana that your Excellency does not hear of it , '' she answered . 
And Gignoux ? '' he said , speaking to me again . 
'' This was not strictly true . 
I saw Monsieur Gignoux in conference with some of your officers who came out of this hotel . 
'' You have sharp eyes , Monsieur , '' he remarked . 
I suspected the man when I met him in Kentucky , '' I continued , not heeding this . 
Monsieur Vigo himself distrusted him . 
'' Mr. Ritchie , '' said the Baron , you are a young man and I an old one . 
If I tell you that I have a great respect for your astuteness and ability , do not put it down to flattery . 
I wish that your countrymen , who are coming down the river like driftwood , more resembled you . 
As for Citizen Gignoux , '' he went on , smiling , and wiping his face , let not your heart be troubled . 
His Majesty's minister at Philadelphia has written me letters on the subject . 
I am contemplating for Monsieur Gignoux a sea voyage to Havana , and he is at present partaking of my hospitality in the calabozo . 
'' In the calabozo ! '' I cried , overwhelmed at this example of Spanish justice and omniscience . 
Precisely , '' said the Baron , drumming with his fingers on his fat knee . 
And now , '' he added , perhaps Madame la Vicomtesse is ready to tell me of the whereabouts of Mr. Temple and her estimable cousin , Auguste . 
It may interest her to know why I have allowed them their liberty so long . 
'' A point on which I have been consumed with curiosity since I have begun to tremble at the amazing thoroughness of your Excellency's system , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
His Excellency scarcely looked the tyrant as he sat before us , with his calves crossed and his hands folded on his waistcoat and his little black eyes twinkling . 
I had an idea that the Sieur de St . 
Gre and Mr. Temple might act as a bait to reveal the disease in some others . 
Ha , I am cleverer than you thought , Mr. Ritchie . 
You are surprised ? '' I was surprised , and showed it . 
Come , '' he said , you are astute . 
Why did you think I left them at liberty ? '' I thought your Excellency believed them to be harmless , as they are , '' I replied . 
He turned again to the Vicomtesse . 
You have picked up a diplomat , Madame . 
I must confess that I misjudged him when you introduced him to me . 
And again , where are Mr. Temple and your estimable cousin ? Shall I tell you ? They are at old Lamarque's , on the plantation of Philippe de St . 
'' They were , your Excellency , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Eh ? '' exclaimed the Baron , jumping . 
Gre has given her brother eight hundred livres , and he is probably by this time on board a French ship at the English Turn . 
He is very badly frightened . 
I will give your Excellency one more surprise . 
I take this opportunity of saying that I have the greatest respect for your intelligence . 
Now what is the surprise ? '' That your Excellency intended that both Mr. Temple and Auguste de St . 
Gre were to escape on that ship . 
To say that I was bewildered by this last evidence of the insight of the woman beside me would be to put it mildly . 
The Vicomtesse sat quietly watching him , the wonted look of repressed laughter on her face , and by degrees his Excellency grew calm again . 
Out of consideration for the character and services of Monsieur Philippe de St . 
Gre I was willing to let them both escape . 
But now ? '' Mr. Temple is not known in New Orleans except to the St . 
Gre family , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
He is a man of honor . 
'' But the Baron was old in a service which did not do things hastily . 
He is well enough where he is for to day , '' said his Excellency , resuming his official manner . 
To night after dark I will send down an officer and have him brought before me . 
He will not then be seen in custody by any one , and provided I am satisfied with him he may go to the Rue Bourbon . 
'' CHAPTER X THE SCOURGE As we went through the court I felt as though I had been tied to a string , suspended in the air , and spun . 
This was undoubtedly due to the heat . 
And after the astonishing conversation from which we had come , my admiration for the lady beside me was magnified to a veritable awe . 
Madame la Vicomtesse held me lightly by the edge of my coat , and I stood looking down at her . 
What do you propose to do now ? '' We must get word to Nick as we promised , that he may know what to expect , '' I replied . 
Suppose we go to Monsieur de St . 
Gre's house and write him a letter ? '' No , '' said the Vicomtesse , with decision , I am going to Mrs. Temple's . 
I shall write the letter from there and send it by Andre , and you will go direct to Madame Gravois's . 
'' Her glance rested anxiously upon my face , and there came an expression in her eyes which disturbed me strangely . 
I had not known it since the days when Polly Ann used to mother me . 
But I did not mean to give up . 
I am not tired , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' I answered , and I will go with you to Mrs. Temple's . 
'' Give me your hand , '' she said , and smiled . 
Andre and my maid are used to my vagaries , and your own countrymen will not mind . 
Give me your hand , Mr. Ritchie . 
'' I gave it willingly enough , with a thrill as she took it between her own . 
The same anxious look was in her eyes , and not the least embarrassment . 
There , it is hot and dry , as I feared , '' she said , and you seem flushed . 
'' She dropped my hand , and there was a touch of irritation in her voice as she continued You seemed fairly sensible when I first met you last night , Mr. Ritchie . 
Are you losing your sanity ? Do you not realize that you cannot take liberties with this climate ? Do as I say , and go to Madame Gravois's at once . 
'' That is no reason why you should kill yourself , '' said Madame , coldly . 
Will you not do as I say ? '' I think that I should go to Mrs. Temple's , '' I answered . 
She did not reply to that , letting down her veil impatiently , with a deftness that characterized all her movements . 
Without so much as asking me to come after her , she reached the banquette , and I walked by her side through the streets , silent and troubled by her displeasure . 
My pride forbade me to do as she wished . 
It was the hottest part of a burning day , and the dome of the sky was like a brazen bell above us . 
Even the Spaniards sometimes happened upon justice . 
In the Rue Bourbon the little shops were empty , the doorstep where my merry fiddler had played vacant , and the very air seemed to simmer above the honeycombed tiles . 
I knocked at the door , once , twice . 
I looked at Madame la Vicomtesse , and knocked again so loudly that the little tailor across the street , his shirt opened at the neck , flung out his shutter . 
Suddenly there was a noise within , the door was opened , and Lindy stood before us , in the darkened room , with terror in her eyes . 
Oh , Marse Dave , '' she cried , as we entered , oh , Madame , I'se so glad you'se come , I'se so glad you'se come . 
'' She burst into a flood of tears . 
And Madame la Vicomtesse , raising her veil , seized the girl by the arm . 
What is it ? '' she said . 
What is the matter , Lindy ? '' Madame's touch seemed to steady her . 
Miss Sally , '' she moaned , Miss Sally done got de yaller fever . 
'' There was a moment's silence , for we were both too appalled by the news to speak . 
Lindy , are you sure ? '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Yass'm , yass'm , '' Lindy sobbed , I reckon I'se done seed 'nuf of it , Mistis . 
'' And she went into a hysterical fit of weeping . 
The Vicomtesse turned to her own frightened servants in the doorway , bade Andre in French to run for Dr . 
Perrin , and herself closed the battened doors . 
Doubtless thus she had made King and Cardinal laugh , doubtless thus , ministering to those who crossed her path , she had met her own calamities . 
Strangest of all was the effect she had upon Lindy , for the girl ceased crying as she watched her . 
Madame la Vicomtesse turned to me . 
You must go at once , '' she said . 
When you get to Madame Gravois's , write to Mr. Temple . 
I will send Andre to you there . 
'' She started for the bedroom door , Lindy making way for her . 
I scarcely knew what I did as I sprang forward and took the Vicomtesse by the arm . 
Where are you going ? '' I cried . 
It did not seem strange that her look had in it a gentleness as she spoke . 
I must , '' she said . 
I cannot let you risk your life , '' I cried , wholly forgetting myself there are others who will do this . 
'' Others ? '' she said . 
I I have nursed people before this . 
If you stay , I stay , '' I answered and if you die , I die . 
'' She looked up into my eyes for a fleeting instant . 
Write to Mr. Temple , '' she said . 
Dazed , I watched her open the bedroom doors , motion to Lindy to pass through , and then she had closed them again and I was alone in the darkened parlor . 
The throbbing in my head was gone , and a great clearness had come with a great fear . 
I stood , I know not how long , listening to the groans that came through the wall , for Mrs. Temple was in agony . 
At intervals I heard Helene's voice , and then the groans seemed to stop . 
Ten times I went to the bedroom door , and as many times drew away again , my heart leaping within me at the peril which she faced . 
If I had had the right , I believe I would have carried her away by force . 
But I had not the right . 
My eye fell upon the table , and there , as though prepared for what I was to do , lay pen and paper , ink and sand . 
My hand shook as I took the quill and tried to compose a letter to my cousin . 
I scarcely saw the words which I put on the sheet , and I may be forgiven for the unwisdom of that which I wrote . 
The Baron de Carondelet will send an officer for you to night so that you may escape observation in custody . 
Your mother is ill , and Madame la Vicomtesse and myself are with her . 
'' In the state I was it took me a long time to compose this much , and I had barely finished it when there was a knock at the outer door . 
There was an epidemic , Monsieur , so Andre feared . 
I gave him the note and his directions , and ten minutes after he had gone I would have given much to have called him back . 
For the girl had shut herself in her room , and Madame had thought it best not to disturb her at such a stage . 
After many years I dislike to recall to memory that long afternoon which I spent , helpless , in the Rue Bourbon . 
Now I was on my feet , pacing restlessly the short breadth of the room , trying to shut out from my mind the horrors of which my ears gave testimony . 
Again , in the intervals of quiet , I sat with my elbows on the table and my head in my hands , striving to allay the throbbing in my temples . 
Pains came and went , and at times I felt like a fagot flung into the fire , I , who had never known a sick day . 
At times my throat pained me , an odd symptom in a warm climate . 
Troubled as I was in mind and body , the thought of Helene's quiet heroism upheld me through it all . 
At every noise I peered out , hoping for the doctor . 
But he did not come . 
And then , as I fell back into the fauteuil , there was borne on my consciousness a sound I had heard before . 
Stop that noise , '' I cried in French , angered beyond all reason at the thought of music at such a time . 
Idiots , there is yellow fever there . 
'' The little man stopped with his bow raised for a moment they all stared at me , transfixed . 
Suddenly he scrambled up , moaning , as if the scourge itself had fastened on him , backed into the house , and slammed the door in my face . 
I returned with slow steps to shut myself in the darkened room again , and I recall feeling something of triumph over the consternation I had caused . 
No sounds came from the bedroom , and after that the street was quiet as death save for an occasional frightened , hurrying footfall . 
All at once the bedroom door opened softly , and Helene was standing there , looking at me . 
At first I saw her dimly , as in a vision , then clearly . 
I leaped to my feet and went and stood beside her . 
The doctor has not come , '' I said . 
Where does he live ? I will go for him . 
'' She shook her head . 
He can do no good . 
Lindy has procured all the remedies , such as they are . 
They can only serve to alleviate , '' she answered . 
She cannot withstand this , poor lady . 
'' There were tears on Helene's lashes . 
Her sufferings have been frightful frightful . 
'' Cannot I help ? '' I said thickly . 
Cannot I do something ? '' She shook her head . 
She raised her hand timidly to the lapel of my coat , and suddenly I felt her palm , cool and firm , upon my forehead . 
It rested there but an instant . 
You ought not to be here , '' she said , her voice vibrant with earnestness and concern . 
You ought not to be here . 
Will you not go if I ask it ? '' I cannot , '' I said you know I cannot if you stay . 
'' She did not answer that . 
Our eyes met , and in that instant for me there was neither joy nor sorrow , sickness nor death , nor time nor space nor universe . 
It was she who turned away . 
Have you written him ? '' she asked in a low voice . 
Yes , '' I answered . 
She would not have known him , '' said Helene after all these years of waiting she would not have known him . 
Her punishment has been great . 
'' A sound came from the bedroom , and Helene was gone , silently , as she had come . 
I must have been dozing in the fauteuil , for suddenly I found myself sitting up , listening to an unwonted noise . 
I knew from the count of the hoof beats which came from down the street that a horse was galloping in long strides a spent horse , for the timing was irregular . 
And he was alone ! He caught sight of me as soon as his foot touched the banquette . 
What are you doing here ? '' I cried . 
What are you doing here ? '' He halted on the edge of the banquette as a hurrying man runs into a wall . 
He cried out my name and stood looking at me like a fool . 
What the devil do you mean by coming here ? '' I cried . 
Did I not write you to stay where you were ? How did you get here ? '' I stepped down on the banquette and seized him by the shoulders . 
Did you receive my letter ? '' Yes , '' he said , yes . 
Then he laid hold of me . 
Davy , is it true that she has yellow fever ? Is it true ? '' Who told you ? '' I demanded angrily . 
Andre , '' he answered . 
Andre said that the lady here had yellow fever . 
Is it true ? '' Yes , '' I said almost inaudibly . 
He let his hand fall from my shoulder , and he shivered . 
May God forgive me for what I have done ! '' he said . 
Where is she ? '' For what you have done ? '' I cried you have done an insensate thing to come here . 
'' Suddenly I remembered the sentry at the gate of Fort St . 
Let me in ! Let me see her . 
'' Even as he spoke I caught sight of men coming into the street , perhaps at the corner of the Rue St . 
Pierre , and then more men , and as we went into the house I saw that they were running . 
There were cries in the street now , but he did not seem to heed them . 
He stood listening , heart stricken , to the sounds that came through the bedroom wall , and a spasm crossed his face . 
Then he turned like a man not to be denied , to the bedroom door . 
I was before him , but Madame la Vicomtesse opened it . 
And I remember feeling astonishment that she did not show surprise or alarm . 
What are you doing here , Mr. Temple ? '' she said . 
My mother , Madame ! My mother ! I must go to her . 
'' He pushed past her into the bedroom , and I followed perforce . 
But she was his mother , upon whom God had brought such a retribution as He alone can bestow . 
Lindy , faithful servant to the end , held the wasted hands of her mistress against the violence they would have done . 
Lindy held them , her own body rocking with grief , her lips murmuring endearments , prayers , supplications . 
The yellowed hands fell limply to the sheet , the shrunken form stiffened . 
The eyes of the mother looked upon the son , and in them at first was the terror of one who sees the infinite . 
Then they softened until they became again the only feature that was left of Sarah Temple . 
Harry , '' she said softly , be good to me , dear . 
You are all I have now . 
'' She spoke of Harry Riddle ! But the long years of penance had not been in vain . 
We saw him kneeling at the bedside , we saw him with her hand in his , and Helene was drawing me gently out of the room and closing the door behind her . 
She did not look at me , nor I at her . 
We stood for a moment close together , and suddenly the cries in the street brought us back from the drama in the low ceiled , reeking room we had left . 
Open it , '' said Helene . 
There was neither excitement in her voice , nor yet resignation . 
In those two words was told the philosophy of her life . 
He took a step into the room , his hand on the hilt of his sword , and poured out at me a torrent of Spanish of which I understood nothing . 
All at once his eye fell upon Helene , who was standing behind me , and he stopped in the middle of his speech and pulled off his hat and bowed profoundly . 
Madame la Vicomtesse ! '' he stammered . 
I was no little surprised that she should be so well known . 
You will please to speak French , Monsieur , '' she said this gentleman does not understand Spanish . 
What is it you desire ? '' A thousand pardons , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' he said . 
I am the Alcalde de Barrio , and a wild Americano has passed the sentry at St . 
Charles's gate without heeding his Excellency's authority and command . 
I saw the man with my own eyes . 
I should know him again in a hundred . 
We have traced him here to this house , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
Behold the horse which he rode ! '' The Alcalde turned and pointed at the beast . 
Behold the horse which he rode , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
'' Probably , '' answered the Vicomtesse , in an even tone . 
'' Sancta Maria ! Madame , '' he exclaimed , I I who speak to you have come to get him . 
He has defied his Excellency's commands . 
Where is he ? '' He is in that room , '' said the Vicomtesse , pointing at the bedroom door . 
The Alcalde took a step forward . 
She stopped him by a quick gesture . 
He is in that room with his mother , '' she said , and his mother has the yellow fever . 
Come , we will go to him . 
'' And she put her hand upon the door . 
Yellow fever ! '' cried the Alcalde , and his voice was thick with terror . 
There was a moment's silence as he stood rooted to the floor . 
Impassive , I heard it echoed from a score of throats , I saw men and women stampeding like frightened sheep , I heard their footfalls and their cries as they ran . 
A tawdry constable , who held with a trembling hand the bridle of the tired horse , alone remained . 
Yellow fever ! '' the Alcalde repeated The Vicomtesse inclined her head . 
He was silent again for a while , uncertain , and then , without comprehending , I saw the man's eyes grow smaller and a smile play about his mouth . 
He looked at the Vicomtesse with a new admiration to which she paid no heed . 
I am sorry , Madame la Vicomtesse , '' he began , but '' But you do not believe that I speak the truth , '' she replied quietly . 
Will you follow me ? '' she said , turning again . 
He had started , plainly in an agony of fear , when a sound came from beyond the wall that brought a cry to his lips . 
Her manner changed to one of stinging scorn . 
You are a coward , '' she said . 
I will bring the gentleman to you if he can be got to leave the bedside . 
'' No , '' said the Alcalde , no . 
I I will go to him , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
'' But she did not open the door . 
Then I shall write a letter which you will take to the Governor . 
The gentleman will not try to escape , for his mother is dying . 
Besides , he could not get out of the city . 
You may leave your constable where he is , or the man may come in and stand at this door in sight of the gentleman while you are gone if he pleases . 
'' And then ? '' said the Alcalde . 
It is my belief that his Excellency will allow the gentleman to remain here , and that you will be relieved from the necessity of running any further risk . 
'' As she spoke she opened the door , softly . 
The room was still now , still as death , and the Alcalde went forward on tiptoe . 
I saw him peering in , I saw him backing away again like a man in mortal fear . 
Yes , it is he it is the man , '' he stammered . 
He put his hand to his brow . 
The Vicomtesse closed the door , and without a glance at him went quickly to the table and began to write . 
She had no thought of consulting the man again , of asking his permission . 
Although she wrote rapidly , five minutes must have gone by before the note was finished and folded and sealed . 
She held it out to him . 
Take this to his Excellency , '' she said , and bring me his answer . 
'' The Alcalde bowed , murmured her title , and went lamely out of the house . 
He was plainly in an agony of uncertainty as to his duty , but he glanced at the Vicomtesse and went , flipping the note nervously with his finger nail . 
He paused for a few low spoken words with the tawdry constable , who sat down on the banquette after his chief had gone , still clinging to the bridle . 
The Vicomtesse went to the doorway , looked at him , and closed the battened doors . 
The constable did not protest . 
The day was fading without , and the room was almost in darkness as she crossed over to the little mantel and stood with her head laid upon her arm . 
I did not disturb her . 
The minutes passed , the light waned until I could see her no longer , and yet I knew that she had not moved . 
The strange sympathy between us kept me silent until I heard her voice calling my name . 
Yes , '' I answered . 
The candle ! '' I drew out my tinder box and lighted the wick . 
She had turned , and was facing me even as she had faced me the night before . 
The night before ! The greatest part of my life seemed to have passed since then . 
I remember wondering that she did not look tired . 
Her face was sad her voice was sad , and it had an ineffable , sweet quality at such times that was all its own . 
The Alcalde should be coming back , '' she said . 
Yes , '' I answered . 
These were our words , yet we scarce heeded their meaning . 
Between us was drawn a subtler communion than speech , and we dared neither of us to risk speech . 
She searched my face , but her lips were closed . 
She did not take my hand again as in the afternoon . 
I knew what she would have said . 
There was a knock at the door . 
We went together to open it , and the Alcalde stood on the step . 
He held in his hand a long letter on which the red seal caught the light , and he gave the letter to the Vicomtesse , with a bow . 
From his Excellency , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
'' She broke the seal , went to the table , and read . 
Then she looked up at me . 
It is the Governor's permit for Mr. Temple to remain in this house . 
Thank you , '' she said to the Alcalde you may go . 
'' With my respectful wishes for the continued good health of Madame la Vicomtesse , '' said the Alcalde . 
A lady , slim , gowned and veiled in black and followed by a negress , swept past him . 
The lady lifted her veil and stood before us . 
Antoinette ! '' exclaimed the Vicomtesse , going to her . 
The girl did not answer at once . 
Her suffering seemed to have brought upon her a certain acceptance of misfortune as inevitable . 
Her face , framed in the black veil , was never more beautiful than on that night . 
What is the Alcalde doing here ? '' she said . 
The officer himself answered the question . 
I am leaving , Mademoiselle , '' said he . 
He reached out his hands toward her , appealingly . 
Do you not remember me , Mademoiselle ? You brought the good sister to see my wife . 
'' I remember you , '' said Antoinette . 
Do not stay here , Mademoiselle ! '' he cried . 
There is there is yellow fever . 
'' So that is it , '' said Antoinette , unheeding him and looking at her cousin . 
She has yellow fever , then ? '' I beg you to come away , Mademoiselle ! '' the man entreated . 
Please go , '' she said to him . 
He looked at her , and went out silently , closing the doors after him . 
Why was he here ? '' she asked again . 
He came to get Mr. Temple , my dear , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
The girl's lips framed his name , but did not speak it . 
Where is he ? '' she asked slowly . 
The Vicomtesse pointed towards the bedroom . 
In there , '' she answered , with his mother . 
'' He came to her ? '' Antoinette asked quite simply . 
The Vicomtesse glanced at me , and drew the veil gently from the girl's shoulders . 
She led her , unresisting , to a chair . 
The difference in their ages was not so great . 
Both had suffered cruelly one had seen the world , the other had not , and yet the contrast lay not here . 
Both had followed the gospel of helpfulness to others , but one as a religieuse , innocent of the sin around her , though poignant of the sorrow it caused . 
The other , knowing evil with an insight that went far beyond intuition , fought with that , too . 
I will tell you , Antoinette , '' began the Vicomtesse it was as you said . 
Mr. Ritchie and I found him at Lamarque's . 
He had not taken your money he did not even know that Auguste had gone to see you . 
He did not even know , '' she said , bending over the girl , that he was on your father's plantation . 
When we told him that , he would have left it at once . 
'' Yes , '' she said . 
He did not know that his mother was still in New Orleans . 
And when we told him how ill she was he would have come to her then . 
It was as much as we could do to persuade him to wait until we had seen Monsieur de Carondelet . 
Mr. Ritchie and I came directly to town and saw his Excellency . 
'' It was characteristic of the Vicomtesse that she told this almost with a man's brevity , that she omitted the stress and trouble and pain of it all . 
These things were done the tact and skill and character of her who had accomplished them were not spoken of . 
The girl listened immovable , her lips parted and her eyes far away . 
Suddenly , with an awakening , she turned to Helene . 
You did this ! '' she cried . 
Mr. Ritchie and I together , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Her next exclamation was an odd one , showing how the mind works at such a time . 
But his Excellency was having his siesta ! '' said Antoinette . 
Again Helene glanced at me , but I cannot be sure that she smiled . 
We thought the matter of sufficient importance to awake his Excellency , '' said Helene . 
And his Excellency ? '' asked Antoinette . 
In that moment all three of us seemed to have forgotten the tragedy behind the wall . 
His Excellency thought so , too , when we had explained it sufficiently , '' Helene answered . 
The girl seemed suddenly to throw off the weight of her grief . 
She seized the hand of the Vicomtesse in both of her own . 
The Baron pardoned him ? '' she cried . 
Tell me what his Excellency said . 
Why are you keeping it from me ? '' Hush , my dear , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Yes , he pardoned him . 
Mr. Temple was to have come to the city to night with an officer . 
Mr. Ritchie and I came to this house together , and we found '' Yes , yes , '' said Antoinette . 
He galloped past the sentry at the gate , and the Alcalde followed him from there . 
'' And came here to arrest him ? '' cried Antoinette . 
Before the Vicomtesse could prevent her she sprang from her chair , ran to the door , and was peering out into the darkness . 
Is the Alcalde waiting ? '' No , no , '' said the Vicomtesse , gently bringing her back . 
I wrote to his Excellency and we have his permission for Mr. Temple to remain here . 
'' Suddenly Antoinette stopped in the middle of the floor , facing the candle , her hands clasped , her eyes wide with fear . 
We started , Helene and I , as we looked at her . 
What is it , my dear ? '' said the Vicomtesse , laying a hand on her arm . 
He will take it , '' she said , he will take the fever . 
'' A strange thing happened . 
Many , many times have I thought of it since , and I did not know its meaning then . 
I had looked to see the Vicomtesse comfort her . 
But Helene took a step towards me , my eyes met hers , and in them reflected was the terror I had seen in Antoinette's . 
At that instant I , too , forgot the girl , and we turned to see that she had sunk down , weeping , in the chair . 
Then we both went to her , I through some instinct I did not fathom . 
Helene's hand , resting on Antoinette's shoulder , trembled there . 
It may well have been my own weakness which made me think her body swayed , which made me reach out as if to catch her . 
However marvellous her strength and fortitude , these could not last forever . 
And Heaven help me my own were fast failing . 
Once the room had seemed to me all in darkness . 
Then I saw the Vicomtesse leaning tenderly over her cousin and whispering in her ear , and Antoinette rising , clinging to her . 
I will go , '' she faltered , I will go . 
He must not know I have been here . 
You you will not tell him ? '' No , I shall not tell him , '' answered the Vicomtesse . 
And you will send word to me , Helene ? '' Yes , dear . 
'' Antoinette kissed her , and began to adjust her veil mechanically . 
I looked on , bewildered by the workings of the feminine mind . 
Why was she going ? The Vicomtesse gave me no hint . 
But suddenly the girl's arms fell to her sides , and she stood staring , not so much as a cry escaping her . 
The bedroom doors had been opened , and between them was the tall figure of Nicholas Temple . 
So they met again after many years , and she who had parted them had brought them together once more . 
He came a step into the room , as though her eyes had drawn him so far . 
Even then he did not speak her name . 
Go , '' he said . 
Go , you must not stay here . 
Go ! '' She bowed her head . 
I was going , '' she answered . 
'' But you must go at once , '' he cried excitedly . 
Do you know what is in there ? '' and he pointed towards the bedroom . 
Yes , yes , I know , '' she said , I know . 
'' Then go , '' he cried . 
As it is you have risked too much . 
'' She lifted up her head and looked at him . 
There was a new born note in her voice , a tremulous note of joy in the midst of sorrow . 
It was of her he was thinking ! And you ? '' she said . 
You have come and remained . 
'' She is my mother , '' he answered . 
God knows it was the least I could have done . 
'' Twice she had changed before our eyes , and now we beheld a new and yet more startling transformation . 
When she spoke there was no reproach in her voice , but triumph . 
Yes , she is your mother , '' she answered but for many years she has been my friend . 
I will go to her . 
She cannot forbid me now . 
Helene has been with her , '' she said , turning to where the Vicomtesse stood watching her intently . 
Helene has been with her . 
You told me that you were going . 
'' Truly , man is born without perception . 
Yes , I told you that , '' she replied almost defiantly . 
And why were you going ? '' he demanded . 
Then I had a sudden desire to shake him . 
You yourself must find the answer to that question , Mr. Temple , '' said the Vicomtesse , quietly . 
He turned and stared at Helene , and she seemed to smile . 
Then as his eyes went back , irresistibly , to the other , a light that was wonderful to see dawned and grew in them . 
I shall never forget him as he stood , handsome and fearless , a gentleman still , despite his years of wandering and adventure , and in this supreme moment unselfish . 
The wilful , masterful boy had become a man at last . 
He started forward , stopped , trembling with a shock of remembrance , and gave back again . 
You cannot come , '' he said I cannot let you take this risk . 
Tell her she cannot come , Madame , '' he said to Helene . 
For the love of God send her home again . 
'' But there were forces which even Helene could not stem . 
He had turned to go back , he had seized the door , but Antoinette was before him . 
Custom does not weigh at such a time . 
Had she not read his avowal ? She had his hand in hers , heedless of us who watched . 
At first he sought to free himself , but she clung to it with all the strength of her love , yet she did not look up at him . 
I will come with you , '' she said in a low voice , I will come with you , Nick . 
'' How quaintly she spoke his name , and gently , and timidly ay , and with a supreme courage . 
True to him through all those numb years of waiting , this was a little thing that they should face death together . 
A little thing , and yet the greatest joy that God can bestow upon a good woman . 
He looked down at her with a great tenderness , he spoke her name , and I knew that he had taken her at last into his arms . 
Come , '' he said . 
They went in together , and the doors closed behind them . 
Antoinette's maid was on the step , and the Vicomtesse and I were alone once more in the little parlor . 
I remember well the sense of unreality I had , and how it troubled me . 
I remember how what I had seen and heard was turning , turning in my mind . 
Nick had come back to Antoinette . 
They were together in that room , and Mrs. Temple was dying dying . 
No , it could not be so . 
Again , I was in the garden at Les Iles on a night that was all perfume , and I saw the flowers all ghostly white under the moon . 
And then , suddenly , I was watching the green candle sputter , and out of the stillness came a cry the sereno calling the hour of the night . 
How my head throbbed ! It was keeping time to some rhythm , I knew not what . 
Ah , I had it , the water was cold going to Vincennes , so cold ! A voice called me . 
No matter where I had gone , I think I would have come back at the sound of it . 
I listened intently , that I might lose no word of what it said . 
'' That was all it said , and it called from across the sea . 
And the sea was cold , cold and green under the gray light . 
I am not ill , '' I said . 
'' She was pressing my hand now , I saw her bending over me , I felt her hair as it brushed my face . 
There was a tremor in her voice , and to that alone I listened . 
The words were decisive , of command , and with them some sense as of a haven near came to me . 
Then stillness again , the stillness that comes between waking and sleeping , between pain and calm . 
And at times when I felt her hand fall into mine or press against my brow , the pain seemed more endurable . 
After that I recall being lifted , being borne along . 
I opened my eyes once and saw , above a tile crowned wall , the moon all yellow and distorted in the sky . 
Then a gate clicked , dungeon blackness , half light again , ascent , oblivion . 
CHAPTER XII VISIONS , AND AN AWAKENING I have still sharp memories of the tortures of that illness , though it befell so long ago . 
At times , when my mind was gone from me , I cried out I know not what of jargon , of sentiment , of the horrors I had beheld in my life . 
I lived again the pleasant scenes , warped and burlesqued almost beyond cognizance , and the tragedies were magnified a hundred fold . 
Thus it would be on the low , white ceiling five cracks came together , and that was a device . 
Through all the fearful struggle I heard her calling me piteously to come back to her . 
and it was like the wind singing in the poplars . 
Was it Polly Ann's voice ? Again , I sat with Nick under the trees on the lawn at Temple Bow , and the world was dark with the coming storm . 
I knew and he knew that the storm was brewing that I might be thrust out into it . 
But she thrust us forth into the blackness with a smile , as though she were flinging papers out of the window . 
My constant torment was thirst . 
I was in the prairie , and it was scorched and brown to the horizon . 
I searched and prayed pitifully for water , for only a sip of the brown water with the specks in it that was in the swamp . 
Nay , once I got it to my lips , and it was gone . 
Sometimes a young man in a hunting shirt , square shouldered , clear eyed , his face tanned and his fair hair bleached by the sun , would bring the water . 
He was the hero of my boyhood , and part of him indeed was in me . 
And I would have followed him again to Vincennes despite the tortures of the damned . 
Sometimes another brought the water , and at sight of her I would tremble and grow faint , and I had not the strength to reach for it . 
She would look at me with eyes that laughed despite the resolution of the mouth . 
Then the eyes would grow pitiful at my helplessness , and she would murmur my name . 
There was some reason which I never fathomed why she could not give me the water , and her own suffering seemed greater than mine because of it . 
So great did it seem that I forgot my own and sought to comfort her . 
Then she would go away , very slowly , and I would hear her calling to me in the wind , from the stars to which I looked up from the prairie . 
It was she , I thought , who ordered the world . 
Who , when women were lost and men cried out in distress , came to them calmly , ministered to them deftly . 
Down in the street , instead of the King's white soldiers , was a foul , unkempt rabble , creeping out of its damp places , jesting , cursing , singing . 
And in the midst of the rabble a lady sat in a cart high above it unmoved . 
She was the lady of the miniature . 
A window in one of the jutting houses was flung open , a little man leaned out excitedly , and I knew him too . 
He was Jean Baptiste Lenoir , and he cried out in a shrill voice You must take off her ruff , citizens . 
I watched them a long , long time , and it seemed incredible that they should still remain cracks . 
Beyond that I would not go , into speculation I dared not venture . 
They remained cracks , and I went to sleep thanking God . 
When I awoke a breeze came in cool , fitful gusts , and on it the scent of camellias . 
I thought of turning my head , and I remember wondering for a long time over the expediency of this move . 
What would happen if I did ! Perhaps the visions would come back , perhaps my head would come off . 
Finally I decided to risk it , and the first thing that I beheld was a palm leaf fan , moving slowly . 
That fact gave me food for thought , and contented me for a while . 
Then I hit upon the idea that there must be something behind the fan . 
I was distinctly pleased by this astuteness , and I spent more time in speculation . 
Whatever it was , it had a tantalizing elusiveness , keeping the fan between it and me . 
If I feigned to be asleep , perhaps the thing behind the fan would come out . 
Surely no human being could fan as long as that without being tired ! I opened my eyes twice , but the thing was inscrutable . 
Then I heard a sound that I knew to be a footstep upon boards . 
A voice whispered The delirium has left him . 
'' Another voice , a man's voice , answered Thank God ! Let me fan him . 
'' I am not tired , '' answered the first voice . 
I do not see how you have stood it , '' said the man's voice . 
You will kill yourself , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
The danger is past now . 
'' I hope so , Mr. Temple , '' said the first voice . 
You may come back in half an hour . 
'' I heard the footsteps retreating . 
Then I said I am not asleep . 
'' The fan stopped for a brief instant and then went on vibrating inexorably . 
I was entranced at the thought of what I had done . 
I had spoken , though indeed it seemed to have had no effect . 
Could it be that I hadn't spoken ? I began to be frightened at this , when gradually something crept into my mind and drove the fear out . 
I did not grasp what this was at first , it was like the first staining of wine on the eastern sky to one who sees a sunrise . 
And then the thought grew even as the light grows , tinged by prismatic colors , until at length a memory struck into my soul like a shaft of light . 
I spoke her name , unblushingly , aloud . 
Helene ! '' The fan stopped . 
There was a silence that seemed an eternity as the palm leaf trembled in her hand , there was an answer that strove tenderly to command . 
Hush , you must not talk , '' she said . 
Never , I believe , came such supreme happiness with obedience . 
I felt her hand upon my brow , and the fan moved again . 
I fell asleep once more from sheer weariness of joy . 
She was there , beside me . 
She had been there , beside me , through it all , and it was her touch which had brought me back to life . 
When I awoke again her image was in my mind , and I let it rest there in contemplation . 
But presently I thought of the fan , turned my head , and it was not there . 
A great fear seized me . 
The place struck a chord in my memory . 
Then my eyes wandered back into the room . 
There was a polished dresser , a crucifix and a prie dieu in the corner , a fauteuil , and another chair at my bed . 
The floor was rubbed to an immaculate cleanliness , stained yellow , and on it lay clean woven mats . 
The room was empty ! I cried out , a yellow and red turban shot across the window , and I beheld in the door the spare countenance of the faithful Lindy . 
Marse Dave , '' she cried , is you feelin' well , honey ? '' Where am I , Lindy ? '' I asked . 
Lindy , like many of her race , knew well how to assume airs of importance . 
Lindy had me down , and she knew it . 
Marse Dave , '' she said , doan yo' know better'n dat ? Yo' know yo' ain't ter talk . 
Lawsy , I reckon I wouldn't be wuth pizen if she was to hear I let yo' talk . 
'' Lindy implied that there was tyranny somewhere . 
Ef she was ter hear me er disputin' wid yo' , Marse Dave , I reckon I'd done git such er tongue lashin' '' Lindy looked at me suspiciously . 
Yo' er allus was powe'rful cute , Marse Dave . 
'' Lindy set her lips with a mighty resolve to be silent . 
I heard some one coming along the gallery , and then I saw Nick's tall figure looming up behind her . 
Davy , '' he cried . 
Lindy braced herself up doggedly . 
Yo' ain't er gwine to git in thar nohow , Marse Nick , '' she said . 
Nonsense , Lindy , '' he answered , I've been in there as much as you have . 
'' And he took hold of her thin arm and pulled her back . 
Marse Nick ! '' she cried , terror stricken , she'll done fin' out dat you've been er talkin' . 
'' Pish ! '' said Nick with a fine air , who's afraid of her ? '' Lindy's face took on an expression of intense amusement . 
Yo' is , for one , Marse Nick , '' she answered , with the familiarity of an old servant . 
I done seed yo' skedaddle when she comed . 
'' Tut , '' said Nick , grandly , I run from no woman . 
Eh , Davy ? '' He pushed past the protesting Lindy into the room and took my hand . 
Egad , you have been near the devil's precipice , my son . 
A three bottle man would have gone over . 
'' In his eyes was all the strange affection he had had for me ever since ave had been boys at Temple Bow together . 
Davy , I reckon life wouldn't have been worth much if you'd gone . 
'' I did not answer . 
I could only stare at him , mutely grateful for such an affection . 
In all his wild life he had been true to me , and he had clung to me stanchly in this , my greatest peril . 
Thankful that he was here , I searched his handsome person with my eyes . 
He was dressed as usual , with care and fashion , in linen breeches and a light gray coat and a filmy ruffle at his neck . 
But I thought there had come a change into his face . 
The reckless quality seemed to have gone out of it , yet the spirit and daring remained , and with these all the sweetness that was once in his smile . 
There were lines under his eyes that spoke of vigils . 
You have been sitting up with me , '' I said . 
Of course , '' he answered patting my shoulder . 
What did you think I would be doing ? '' What was the matter with me ? '' I asked . 
'' I was silent for a while , turning over this answer in my mind . 
Then I said I had yellow fever . 
It is no use to lie to you , '' he replied you're too shrewd . 
'' I was silent again for a while . 
Nick , '' I said , you had no right to stay here . 
You have other responsibilities now . 
It was the old buoyant , boyish laugh of sheer happiness , and I felt the better for hearing it . 
If you begin to preach , parson , I'll go I vow I'll have no more sermonizing . 
Davy , '' he cried , isn't she just the dearest , sweetest , most beautiful person in the world ? '' Where is she ? '' I asked , temporizing . 
Nick was not a subtle person , and I was ready to follow him at great length in the praise of Antoinette . 
I hope she is not here . 
'' We made her go to Les Iles , '' said he . 
And you risked your life and stayed here without her ? '' I said . 
As for risking life , that kind of criticism doesn't come well from you . 
And as for Antoinette , '' he added with a smile , I expect to see something of her later on . 
'' Well , '' I answered with a sigh of supreme content , you have been a fool all your life , and I hope that she will make you sensible . 
'' You never could make me so , '' said Nick , and besides , I don't think you've been so damned sensible yourself . 
'' We were silent again for a space . 
Davy , '' he asked , do you remember what I said when you had that miniature here ? '' You said a great many things , I believe . 
'' I told you to consider carefully the masterful features of that lady , and to thank God you hadn't married her . 
I vow I never thought she'd turn up . 
Upon my oath I never thought I should be such a blind slave as I have been for the last fortnight . 
Faith , Monsieur de St . 
Gre is a strong man , but he was no more than a puppet in his own house when he came back here for a day . 
That lady could govern a province , no , a kingdom . 
But I warrant you there would be no climbing of balconies in her dominions . 
I have never been so generalled in my life . 
'' I had no answer for these comments . 
The deuce of it is the way she does it , '' he continued , plainly bent on relieving himself . 
There's no noise , no fuss but you must obey , you don't know why . 
And yet you may flay me if I don't love her . 
'' Love her ! '' I repeated . 
She saved your life , '' said Nick I don't believe any other woman could have done it . 
She hadn't any thought of her own . 
She has been here , in this room , almost constantly night and day , and she never let you go . 
The little French doctor gave you up not she . 
Cursed if I see why she did it . 
'' Nor I , '' I answered . 
Well , '' he said apologetically , of course I would have done it , but you weren't anything to her . 
Yes , egad , you were something to be saved , that was all that was necessary . 
She had you brought back here we are in Monsieur de St . 
Gre's house , by the way in a litter , an she took command as though she had nursed yellow fever cases all her life . 
I said that you were in love with her once , Davy , when I saw you looking at the portrait . 
Of course a man could be very fond of her , '' he said , but a king ought to have married her . 
As for that poor Vicomte she's tied up to , I reckon I know the reason why he didn't come to America . 
An ordinary man would have no chance at all . 
God bless her ! '' he cried , with a sudden burst of feeling , I would die for her myself . 
She got me out of a barrel of trouble with his Excellency . 
She cared for my mother , a lonely outcast , and braved death herself to go to her when she was dying of the fever . 
God bless her ! '' Lindy was standing in the doorway . 
Lan' sakes , Marse Nick , yo' gotter go , '' she said . 
He rose and pressed my fingers . 
I'll go , '' he said , and left me . 
Lindy seated herself in the chair . 
She held in her hand a bowl of beef broth . 
From this she fed me in silence , and when she left she commanded me to sleep informing me that she would be on the gallery within call . 
But I did not sleep at once . 
Nick's words had brought back a fact which my returning consciousness had hitherto ignored . 
The birds sang in the court yard , and when the breeze stirred it was ever laden with a new scent . 
If I had had the strength , I would have risen then and there from my bed , I would have fled from the city at the first opportunity . 
As it was , I lay in a torture of thought , living over again every part of my life which she had touched . 
I remembered the first long , yearning look I had given the miniature at Madame Bouvet's . 
I had not loved her then . 
My feeling rather had been a mysterious sympathy with and admiration for this brilliant lady whose sphere was so far removed from mine . 
Again , in the years of my struggle for livelihood which followed , I dreamed of her I pictured her often in the midst of the darkness of the Revolution . 
Then I had the miniature again , which had travelled to her , as it were , and come back to me . 
So I named them at random and cherished them , knowing that these things were not what other men longed for in women . 
Nay , there was another quality which I believed was there which I knew was there a supreme tenderness that was hidden like a treasure too sacred to be seen . 
I did not seek to explain the mystery which had brought her across the sea into that little garden of Mrs. Temple's and into my heart . 
There she was now enthroned , deified that she would always be there I accepted . 
That I would never say or do anything not in consonance with her standards I knew . 
That I would suffer much I was sure , but the lees of that suffering I should hoard because they came from her . 
What might have been I tried to put away . 
There was the moment , I thought , when our souls had met in the little parlor in the Rue Bourbon . 
This I knew that we had labored together to bring happiness into other lives . 
Then came another thought to appall me . 
Unmindful of her own safety , she had nursed me back to life through all the horrors of the fever . 
The doctor had despaired , and I knew that by the very force that was in her she had saved me . 
She was here now , in this house , and presently she would be coming back to my bedside . 
Painfully I turned my face to the wall in a torment of humiliation I had called her by her name . 
I would see her again , but I knew not whence the strength for that ordeal was to come . 
CHAPTER XIII A MYSTERY I knew by the light that it was evening when I awoke . 
So prisoners mark the passing of the days by a bar of sun light . 
And as I looked at the green trees in the courtyard , vaguely troubled by I knew not what , some one came and stood in the doorway . 
You don't seem very cheerful , '' said he a man ought to be who has been snatched out of the fire . 
'' You seem to be rather too sure of my future , '' I said , trying to smile . 
That's more like you , '' said Nick . 
Egad , you ought to be happy we all ought to be happy she's gone . 
'' She ! '' I cried . 
Who's gone ? '' Madame la Vicomtesse , '' he replied , rubbing his hands as he stood over me . 
But she's left instructions with me for Lindy as long as Monsieur de Carondelet's Bando de Buen Gobierno . 
She came in here about an hour ago and took a long look at you before she left . 
'' She was not ill ? '' I said faintly . 
Faith , I don't know why she was not , '' he said . 
She has done enough to tire out an army . 
But she seems well and fairly happy . 
She had her joke at my expense as she went through the court yard , and she reminded me that we were to send a report by Andre every day . 
'' Chagrin , depression , relief , bewilderment , all were struggling within me . 
Where did she go ? '' I asked at last . 
To Les Iles , '' he said . 
You are to be brought there as soon as you are strong enough . 
Do you happen to know why she went ? I said . 
Now how the deuce should I know ? '' he answered . 
I've done everything with blind servility since I came into this house . 
I never asked for any reason it never would have done any good . 
I suppose she thought that you were well on the road to recovery , and she knew that Lindy was an old hand . 
And then the doctor is to come in . 
'' Why didn't you go ? '' I demanded , with a sudden remembrance that he was staying away from happiness . 
It was because I longed for another taste of liberty , Davy , '' he laughed . 
It was in the night watches that my struggles came though often some unwitting speech of his would bring back the pain . 
He took delight in telling me , for example , how for hours at a time I had been in a fearful delirium . 
The Lord knows what foolishness you talked , Davy , said he . 
It would have done me good to hear you had you been in your right mind . 
'' But you did hear me , '' I said , full of apprehensions . 
Some of it , '' said he . 
You were after Wilkinson once , in a burrow , I believe , and you swore dreadfully because he got out of the other end . 
I can't remember all the things you said . 
Oh , yes , once you were talking to Auguste de St . 
'' Money ? '' I repeated in a sinking voice . 
Oh , a lot of jargon . 
The Vicomtesse pushed me out of the room , and after that I was never allowed to be there when you had those flights . 
Curse the mosquitoes ! He seized a fan and began to ply it vigorously . 
You were giving Auguste a lecture . 
Then I had to go . 
'' These and other reminiscences gave me sufficient food for reflection , and many a shudder over the possibilities of my ravings . 
She had put him out ! No wonder . 
After a while I was carried to the gallery , and there I would talk to the little doctor about the yellow fever which had swept the city . 
Monsieur Perrin was not much of a doctor , to be sure , and he had a heartier dread of the American invasion than of the scourge . 
He worshipped the Vicomtesse , and was so devoid of professional pride as to give her freely all credit for my recovery . 
He too , clothed her with the qualities of statesmanship . 
There would have been a house cleaning there . 
I , who speak to you , know it . 
'' Every day Nick wrote a bulletin to be sent to the Vicomtesse , and he took a fiendish delight in the composition of these . 
He would come out on the gallery with ink and a blank sheet of paper and try to enlist my help . 
He would insert the most ridiculous statements , as for instance , Davy is worse to day , having bribed Lindy to give him a pint of Madeira against my orders . 
'' Or , Davy feigns to be sinking rapidly because he wishes to have you back . 
'' Indeed , I was always in a torture of doubt to know what the rascal had sent . 
His company was most agreeable when he was recounting the many adventures he had had during the five years after he had left New Orleans and been lost to me . 
These would fill a book , and a most readable book it would be if written in his own speech . 
He was going back there with Antoinette , so he said , to build a brick mansion and to live a respectable life the rest of his days . 
There was one question which had been in my mind to ask him , concerning the attitude of Monsieur de St . 
That gentleman , with Madame , had hurried back from Pointe Coupee at a message from the Vicomtesse , and had gone first to Les Iles to see Antoinette . 
Then he had come , in spite of the fever , to his own house in New Orleans to see Nick himself . 
What their talk had been I never knew , for the subject was too painful to be dwelt upon , and the conversation had been marked by frankness on both sides . 
Gre was a just man , his love for his daughter was his chief passion , and despite all that had happened he liked Nick . 
I believe he could not wholly blame the younger man , and he forgave him . 
Mrs. Temple , poor lady , had died on that first night of my illness , and it was her punishment that she had not known her son or her son's happiness . 
Whatever sins she had committed in her wayward life were atoned for , and by her death I firmly believe that she redeemed him . 
She lies now among the Temples in Charleston , and on the stone which marks her grave is cut no line that hints of the story of these pages . 
One bright morning , when Nick and I were playing cards , we heard some one mounting the stairs , and to my surprise and embarrassment I beheld Monsieur de St . 
Gre emerging on the gallery . 
He was in white linen and wore a broad hat , which he took from his head as he advanced . 
He had aged somewhat , his hair was a little gray , but otherwise he was the firm , dignified personage I had admired on this same gallery five years before . 
Good morning , gentlemen , '' he said in English ha , do not rise , sir'' . 
He patted Nick's shoulder kindly , but not familiarly , as he passed him , and extended his hand . 
Mr. Ritchie , it gives me more pleasure than I can express to see you so much recovered . 
'' I am again thrown on your hospitality , sir , '' I said , flushing with pleasure at this friendliness . 
For I admired and respected the man greatly . 
And I fear I have been a burden and trouble to you and your family . 
'' He took my hand and pressed it . 
Characteristically , he did not answer this , and I remembered he was always careful not to say anything which might smack of insincerity . 
I had a glimpse of you some weeks ago , '' he said , thus making light of the risk he had run . 
You are a different man now . 
You may thank your Scotch blood and your strong constitution . 
'' His good habits have done him some good , after all , '' put in my irrepressible cousin . 
, his good habits have turned out to be some advantage to you . 
Mr. Ritchie , you have a faithful friend at least . 
'' He patted Nick's shoulder again . 
And he has promised me to settle down . 
'' I have every inducement , sir , '' said Nick . 
You have indeed , Monsieur , '' he answered . 
I have just come from Dr . 
Perrin's , David , '' he added , May I call you so ? Well , then , I have just come from Dr . 
Perrin's , and he says you may be moved to Les Iles this very afternoon . 
Why , upon my word , '' he exclaimed , staring at me , you don't look pleased . 
One would think you were going to the calabozo . 
'' Ah , '' said Nick , slyly , I know . 
He has tasted freedom , Monsieur , and Madame la Vicomtesse will be in command again . 
Nick could be very exasperating . 
You must not mind him , Monsieur , '' I said . 
I do not mind him , '' answered Monsieur de St . 
Gre , laughing in spite of himself . 
He is a sad rogue . 
As for Helene '' I shall not know how to thank the Vicomtesse , '' I said . 
She has done me the greatest service one person can do another . 
'' Helene is a good woman , '' answered Monsieur de St . 
She is more than that , she is a wonderful woman . 
I remember telling you of her once . 
I little thought then that she would ever come to us . 
'' He turned to me . 
Perrin will be here this afternoon , David , and he will have you dressed . 
Between five and six if all goes well , we shall start for Les Iles . 
'' Nick leaned over the gallery and watched meditatively his prospective father in law leaving the court yard . 
He got me out of a devilish bad scrape , '' he said . 
How was that ? '' I asked listlessly . 
That fat little Baron , the Governor , was for deporting me for running past the sentry and giving him all the trouble I did . 
It seems that the Vicomtesse promised to explain matters in a note which she wrote , and never did explain . 
She was here with you , and a lot she cared about anything else . 
Lucky that Monsieur de St . 
Now his Excellency graciously allows me to stay here , if I behave myself , until I get married . 
'' I do not know how I spent the rest of the day . 
If I had had the strength then , I believe I should have fled . 
I was to see her again , to feel her near me , to hear her voice . 
During the weeks that had gone by I had schooled myself , in a sense , to the inevitable . 
I had not let my mind dwell upon my visit to Les Iles , and now I was face to face with the struggle for which I felt I had not the strength . 
I had fought one battle , I knew that a fiercer battle was to come . 
In due time the doctor arrived , and while he prepared me for my departure , the little man sought , with misplaced kindness , to raise my spirits . 
Was not Monsieur going to the country , to a paradise ? Monsieur so Dr . 
Perrin had noticed had a turn for philosophy . 
Could two more able and brilliant conversationalists be found than Philippe de St . 
Gre and Madame la Vicomtesse ? And there was the happiness of that strange but lovable young man , Monsieur Temple , to contemplate . 
He was in luck , ce beau garcon , for he was getting an angel for his wife . 
Did Monsieur know that Mademoiselle Antoinette was an angel ? At last I was ready , arrayed in my best , on the gallery , when Monsieur de St . 
Andre and another servant carried me down into the court , and there stood a painted sedan chair with the St . 
Gre arms on the panels . 
My father imported it , David , '' said Monsieur de St . 
It has not been used for many years . 
You are to be carried in it to the levee , and there I have a boat for you . 
'' Overwhelmed by this kindness , I could not find words to thank him as I got into the chair . 
My legs were too long for it , I remember . 
I had a quaint feeling of unreality as I sank back on the red satin cushions and was borne out of the gate between the lions . 
Gre and Nick walked in front , the faithful Lindy followed , and people paused to stare at us as we passed . 
We crossed the Place d'Armes , the Royal Road , gained the willow bordered promenade on the levee's crown , and a wide barge was waiting , manned by six negro oarsmen . 
The spars of the shipping were inky black , and the setting sun had struck a red band across the waters . 
For a while the three of us sat gazing at the green shore , each wrapped in his own reflections , Philippe de St . 
Gre thinking , perchance , of the wayward son he had lost Nick of the woman who awaited him and I of one whom fate had set beyond me . 
It was Monsieur de St . 
Gre who broke the silence at last . 
You feel no ill effects from your moving , David ? '' he asked , with an anxious glance at me . 
None , sir , '' I said . 
The country air will do you good , '' he said kindly . 
And Madame la Vicomtesse will put him on a diet , '' added Nick , rousing himself . 
Helene will take care of him , '' answered Monsieur de St . 
He fell to musing again . 
Madame la Vicomtesse has seen more in seven years than most of us see in a lifetime , '' he said . 
She has beheld the glory of France , and the dishonor and pollution of her country . 
Had the old order lasted her salon would have been famous , and she would have been a power in politics . 
'' I have thought that the Vicomtesse must have had a queer marriage , '' Nick remarked . 
Such marriages were the rule amongst our nobility , '' he said . 
It was arranged while Helene was still in the convent , though it was not celebrated until three years after she had been in the world . 
There was a romantic affair , I believe , with a young gentleman of the English embassy , though I do not know the details . 
He is said to be the only man she ever cared for . 
He was a younger son of an impoverished earl . 
'' I started , remembering what the Vicomtesse had said . 
Gre did not appear to see my perturbation . 
Be that as it may , if Helene suffered , she never gave a sign of it . 
The marriage was celebrated with great pomp , and the world could only conjecture what she thought of the Vicomte . 
It was deemed on both sides a brilliant match . 
He had inherited vast estates , Ivry le Tour , Montmery , Les Saillantes , I know not what else . 
She was heiress to the Chateau de St . 
Gre with its wide lands , to the chateau and lands of the Cote Rouge in Normandy , to the hotel St . 
He was a bachelor , which does not mean that he had lacked consolations . 
He was reserved with his equals , and distant with others . 
He had served in the Guards , and did not lack courage . 
He dressed exquisitely , was inclined to the Polignac party , took his ease everywhere , had a knowledge of cards and courts , and little else . 
They went first to the Duke de Ligne , at Bel Oeil , and thence to Coblentz . 
He accepted a commission in the Austrian service , which is much to his credit , and Helene went with some friends to England . 
There my letter reached her , and rather than be beholden to strangers or accept my money there , she came to us . 
That is her story in brief , Messieurs . 
One affair a girl in the village of Montmery had lasted . 
Helene was destined for higher things than may be found in Louisiana , '' said Monsieur de St . 
Gre , turning to Nick , but now that you are to carry away my treasure , Monsieur , I do not know what I should have done without her . 
'' And has there been any news of the Vicomte of late ? '' It was Nick who asked the question , after a little . 
Gre looked at him in surprise . 
Eh , mon Dieu , have you not heard ? '' he said . 
C'est vrai , you have been with David . 
Did not the Vicomtesse mention it ? But why should she ? Monsieur le Vicomte died in Vienna . 
He had lived too well . 
'' The Vicomte is dead ? '' I said . 
They both looked at me . 
Indeed , I should not have recognized my own voice . 
What my face betrayed , what my feelings were , I cannot say . 
My heart beat no faster , there was no tumult in my brain , and yet my breath caught strangely . 
Something grew within me which is beyond the measure of speech , and so it was meant to be . 
I did not know this myself until Helene returned to Les Iles , '' Monsieur de St . 
Gre was saying to me . 
The letter came to her the day after you were taken ill . 
It was from the Baron von Seckenbruck , at whose house the Vicomte died . 
She took it very calmly , for Helene is not a woman to pretend . 
God rest his soul ! '' We were drawing near to Les Iles . 
The rains had come during my illness , and in the level evening light the forest of the shore was the tender green of spring . 
At length we saw the white wooden steps in the levee at the landing , and near them were three figures waiting . 
One was Madame de St . 
Gre , another was Antoinette , these I saw indeed . 
The other was Helene , and it seemed to me that her eyes met mine across the waters and drew them . 
Then we were at the landing . 
I heard Madame de St . 
Gre's voice , and Antoinette's in welcome I listened for another . 
I saw Nick running up the steps in the impetuosity of his love he had seized Antoinette's hand in his , and she was the color of a red rose . 
Creole decorum forbade further advances . 
Andre and another lifted me out , and they gathered around me , these kind people and devoted friends , Antoinette calling me , with exquisite shyness , by name Madame de St . 
Gre giving me a grave but gentle welcome , and asking anxiously how I stood the journey . 
Another took my hand , held it for the briefest space that has been marked out of time , and for that instant I looked into her eyes . 
Life flowed back into me , and strength , and a joy not to be fathomed . 
I could have walked but they bore me through the well remembered vista , and the white gallery at the end of it was like the sight of home . 
The evening air was laden with the scent of the sweetest of all shrubs and flowers . 
CHAPTER XIV TO UNPATHED WATERS , UNDREAMED SHORES'' Monsieur and Madame de St . 
Gre themselves came with me to my chamber off the gallery , where everything was prepared for my arrival with the most loving care , Monsieur de St . 
Gre supplying many things from his wardrobe which I lacked . 
And when I tried to thank them for their kindness he laid his hand upon my shoulder . 
Tenez , mon ami , '' he said , you got your illness by doing things for other people . 
It is time other people did something for you . 
'' Lindy brought me the daintiest of suppers , and I was left to my meditations . 
Nick looked in at the door , and hinted darkly that I had to thank a certain tyrant for my abandonment . 
I called to him , but he paid no heed , and I heard him chuckling as he retreated along the gallery . 
The journey , the excitement into which I had been plunged by the news I had heard , brought on a languor , and I was between sleeping and waking half the night . 
Doubt grew , and sleep left me . 
But there was a detestable argument to fit that likewise , and in the light of this argument it was most natural that she should return to Les Iles . 
Chateaux and lands would be hers again , and she would go back again to that brilliant life among the great to which she was born , for which nature had fitted her . 
Last of all was the thought of the Englishman whom I resembled . 
She would go back to him . 
Nick was the first in my room the next morning . 
because Antoinette had a habit of getting up with the birds , and as I drank my coffee he was emphatic in his denunciations of the customs of the country . 
It is a wonderful day , Davy , '' he cried you must hurry and get out . 
Gre sends his compliments , and wishes to know if you will pardon his absence this morning . 
He is going to escort Antoinette and me over to see some of my prospective cousins , the Bertrands . 
'' He made a face , and bent nearer to my ear . 
I swear to you I have not had one moment alone with her . 
We have been for a walk , but Madame la Vicomtesse must needs intrude herself upon us . 
Egad , I told her plainly what I thought of her tyranny . 
'' And what did she say ? '' I asked , trying to smile . 
She laughed , and said that I belonged to a young nation which had done much harm in the world to everybody but themselves . 
Faith , if I wasn't in love with Antoinette , I believe I'd be in love with her . 
'' I have no doubt of it , '' I answered . 
The Vicomtesse is as handsome as a queen this morning , '' he continued , paying no heed to this remark . 
She has on a linen dress that puzzles me . 
It was made to walk among the trees and flowers , it is as simple as you please and yet it has a distinction that makes you stare . 
'' You seem to have stared , '' I answered . 
Since when did you take such interest in gowns ? '' Bless you , it was Antoinette . 
I never should have known , said he . 
Antoinette had never before seen the gown , and she asked the Vicomtesse where she got the pattern . 
Antoinette is to have it copied , so she says . 
'' Which proved that Antoinette was human , after all , and happy once more . 
Hang it , '' said Nick , she paid more attention to that gown than to me . 
'' Is is not the Vicomtesse going with you ? '' I asked No , I'm sorry for you , '' he called back from the gallery . 
He had need to be , for I fell into as great a fright as ever I had had in my life . 
Gre knocked at the door and startled me out of my wits . 
Hearing that I was awake , he had come in person to make his excuses for leaving me that morning . 
Bon Dieu ! '' he said , looking at me , the country has done you good already . 
Behold a marvel ! Au revoir , David . 
'' I heard the horses being brought around , and laughter and voices . 
How easily I distinguished hers ! Then I heard the hoof beats on the soft dirt of the drive . 
Then silence , the silence of a summer morning which is all myriad sweet sounds . 
Then Lindy appeared , starched and turbaned . 
Marse Dave , how you feel dis mawnin' ? Yo' 'pears mighty peart , sholy . 
Marse Dave , yo' chair is sot on de gallery . 
Is you ready ? I'll fotch dat yaller nigger , Andre . 
'' You needn't fetch Andre , '' I said I can walk . 
'' Lan sakes , Marse Dave , but you is bumptious . 
'' I rose and walked out on the gallery with surprising steadiness . 
A great cushioned chair had been placed there and beside it a table with books , and another chair . 
Lindy looked at me sharply , but I did not heed her , and presently she retired . 
The day , still in its early golden glory , seemed big with prescience . 
Above , the saffron haze was lifted , and there was the blue sky . 
The breeze held its breath the fragrance of grass and fruit and flowers , of the shrub that vied with all , languished on the air . 
Out of these things she came . 
I knew that she was coming , but I saw her first at the gallery's end , the roses she held red against the white linen of her gown . 
Then I felt a great yearning and a great dread . 
I have seen many of her kind since , and none reflected so truly as she the life of the old regime . 
Her dress , her carriage , her air , all suggested it and she might , as Nick said , have been walking in the gardens of the Trianon . 
Titles I cared nothing for . 
Hers alone seemed real , to put her far above me . 
Had all who bore them been as worthy , titles would have meant much to mankind . 
I rose to my feet before her . 
I believe I should have risen in death . 
And then she was standing beside me , looking up into my face . 
You must not do that , '' she said , or I will go away . 
'' I sat down again . 
She went to the door and called , I following her with my eyes . 
Lindy came with a bowl of water . 
Put it on the table , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Lindy put the bowl on the table , gave us a glance , and departed silently . 
The Vicomtesse began to arrange the flowers in the bowl , and I watched her , fascinated by her movements . 
She did everything quickly , deftly , but this matter took an unconscionable time . 
She did not so much as glance at me . 
She seemed to have forgotten my presence . 
There , '' she said at last , giving them a final touch . 
You are less talkative , if anything , than usual this morning , Mr. Ritchie . 
You have not said good morning , you have not told me how you were you have not even thanked me for the roses . 
One might almost believe that you are sorry to come to Les Iles . 
'' One might believe anything who didn't know , Madame la Vicomtesse . 
'' She put her hand to the flowers again . 
It seems a pity to pick them , even in a good cause , '' she said . 
She was so near me that I could have touched her . 
A weakness seized me , and speech was farther away than ever . 
She moved , she sat down and looked at me , and the kind of mocking smile came into her eyes that I knew was the forerunner of raillery . 
There is a statue in the gardens of Versailles which seems always about to speak , and then to think better of it . 
You remind me of that statue , Mr. Ritchie . 
It is the statue of Wisdom . 
'' What did she mean ? Wisdom knows the limitations of its own worth , Madame , '' I replied . 
It is the one particular in which I should have thought wisdom was lacking , '' she said . 
You have a tongue , if you will deign to use it . 
Or shall I read to you ? '' she added quickly , picking up a book . 
I have read to the Queen , when Madame Campan was tired . 
Her Majesty poor dear lady , did me the honor to say she liked my English . 
'' You have done everything , Madame , '' I said . 
I have read to a Queen , to a King's sister , but never yet to a King , '' she said , opening the book and giving me the briefest of glances . 
You are all kings in America are you not ? What shall I read ? '' I would rather have you talk to me . 
'' Very well , I will tell you how the Queen spoke English . 
No , I will not do that , '' she said , a swift expression of sadness passing over her face . 
I will never mock her again . 
She was a good sovereign and a brave woman and I loved her . 
'' She was silent a moment , and I thought there was a great weariness in her voice when she spoke again . 
I have every reason to thank God when I think of the terrors I escaped , of the friends I have found . 
And yet I am an unhappy woman , Mr. Ritchie . 
'' You are unhappy when you are not doing things for others , Madame , '' I suggested . 
I am a discontented woman , '' she said I always have been . 
And I am unhappy when I think of all those who were dear to me and whom I loved . 
Many are dead , and many are scattered and homeless . 
'' I have often thought of your sorrows , Madame , '' I said . 
Which reminds me that I should not burden you with them , my good friend , when you are recovering . 
Do you know that you have been very near to death ? '' I know , Madame , '' I faltered . 
I know that had it not been for you I should not be alive to day . 
I know that you risked your life to save my own . 
'' She did not answer at once , and when I looked at her she was gazing out over the flowers on the lawn . 
My life did not matter , '' she said . 
Let us not talk of that . 
'' I might have answered , but I dared not speak for fear of saying what was in my heart . 
And while I trembled with the repression of it , she was changed . 
She turned her face towards me and smiled a little . 
If you had obeyed me you would not have been so ill , '' she said . 
Then I am glad that I did not obey you . 
'' Your cousin , the irrepressible Mr. Temple , says I am a tyrant . 
Come now , do you think me a tyrant ? '' He has also said other things of you . 
'' What other things ? '' I blushed at my own boldness . 
He said that if he were not in love with Antoinette , he would be in love with you . 
'' A very safe compliment , '' said the Vicomtesse . 
Indeed , it sounds too cautious for Mr. Temple . 
You must have tampered with it , Mr. Ritchie , '' she flashed . 
Mr. Temple is a boy . 
He will have too easy a time with Antoinette . 
'' He is not the sort of man you should marry , '' I said , and sat amazed at it . 
She looked at me strangely No , he is not , '' she answered . 
He is more or less the sort of man I have been thrown with all my life . 
They toil not , neither do they spin . 
I know you will not misunderstand me , for I am very fond of him . 
Mr. Temple is honest , fearless , lovable , and of good instincts . 
One cannot say as much for the rest of his type . 
They go through life fighting , gaming , horse racing , riding to hounds , I have often thought that it was no wonder our privileges came to an end . 
So many of us were steeped in selfishness and vice , were a burden on the world . 
The early nobles , with all their crimes , were men who carved their way . 
Of such were the lords of the Marches . 
We toyed with politics , with simplicity , we wasted the land , we played cards as our coaches passed through famine stricken villages . 
Our punishment was not given into the hands of the bourgeois , who would have dealt justly , but to the scum , the canaille , the demons of the earth . 
Had our King , had our nobility , been men with the old fire , they would not have stood it . 
They were worn out with centuries of catering to themselves . 
Give me a man who will shape his life and live it with all his strength . 
I am tired of sham and pretence , of cynical wit , of mocking at the real things of life , of pride , vain glory , and hypocrisy . 
Give me a man whose existence means something . 
'' Was she thinking of the Englishman of whom she had spoken ? Delicacy forbade my asking the question . 
He had been a man , according to her own testimony . 
Now she seemed lost in a revery , from which I forebore to arouse her . 
I have often tried to picture your life , '' I said at last . 
You ? '' she answered , turning her head quickly . 
Ever since I first saw the miniature , '' I said . 
Gre told me some things , and afterwards I read Le Mariage de Figaro , and some novels , and some memoirs of the old courts which I got in Philadelphia last winter . 
I used to think of you as I rode over the mountains , as I sat reading in my room of an evening . 
I used to picture you in the palaces amusing the Queen and making the Cardinals laugh . 
And then I used to wonder what became of you and whether '' I hesitated , overwhelmed by a sudden confusion . 
for she was gazing at me fixedly with a look I did not understand . 
You used to think of that ? '' she said . 
I never thought to see you , '' I answered . 
Laughter came into her eyes , and I knew that I had not vexed her . 
But I had spoken stupidly , and I reddened . 
I had a quick tongue , '' she said , as though to cover my confusion . 
In those days misfortune had not curbed it . 
I had not learned to be charitable . 
When I was a child I used to ride with my father to the hunts at St . 
Gre , and I was too ready to pick out the weaknesses of his guests . 
If one of the company had a trick or a mannerism , I never failed to catch it . 
People used to ask me what I thought of such and such a person , and that was bad for me . 
I saw their failings and pretensions , but I ignored my own . 
It was the same at Abbaye aux Bois , the convent where I was taught . 
When I was presented to her Majesty I saw why people hated her . 
They did not understand her . 
She was a woman with a large heart , with charity . 
Some did not suspect this , others forgot it because they beheld a brilliant personage with keen perceptions who would not submit to being bored . 
Her Majesty made many enemies at court of persons who believed she was making fun of them . 
There was a dress maker at the French court called Mademoiselle Bertin , who became ridiculously pretentious because the Queen allowed the woman to dress her hair in private . 
Bertin used to put on airs with the nobility when they came to order gowns , and she was very rude to me when I went for my court dress . 
There was a ball at Versailles the day I was presented , and my father told me that her Majesty wished to speak with me . 
I was very much frightened . 
What did you say to Bertin , Mademoiselle ? she asked . 
I was more frightened than ever , but the remembrance of the woman's impudence got the better of me . 
I told her that in dressing your Majesty's hair she had acquired all the court accomplishments but one . 
I'll warrant that Bertin was curious , said the Queen . 
She was , your Majesty . 
What is the accomplishment she lacks ? the Queen demanded I should like to know it myself . 
It is discrimination , your Majesty . 
I told the woman there were some people she could be rude to with impunity . 
I was not one of them . 
She'll never be rude to you again , Mademoiselle , said the Queen . 
I am sure of it , your Majesty , I said . 
The Queen laughed , and bade the Duchesse de Polignac invite me to supper that evening . 
My father was delighted , I was more frightened than ever . 
But the party was small , her Majesty was very gracious and spoke to me often , and I saw that above all things she liked to be amused . 
Poor lady ! It was a year after that terrible affair of the necklace , and she wished to be distracted from thinking of the calumnies which were being heaped upon her . 
She used to send for me often during the years that followed , and I might have had a place at court near her person . 
But my father was sensible enough to advise me not to accept , if I could refuse without offending her Majesty . 
The Queen was not offended she was good enough to say that I was wise in my request . 
She had , indeed , abolished most of the ridiculous etiquette of the court . 
If she wished a mirror , she would not wait for it to be passed through half a dozen hands and handed her by a Princess of the Blood . 
Sometimes she used to summon me to amuse her and walk with me by the water in the beautiful gardens of the Petit Triano . 
I used to imitate the people she disliked . 
I disliked them , too . 
I have seen her laugh until the tears came into her eyes when I talked of Monsieur Necker . 
As the dark days drew nearer I loved more and more to be in the seclusion of the country at Montmery , at the St . 
Paris and the muttering of the storm were far away . 
The mornings on the sunny terrace looking across the valley to the blue hills , the walks in the village , grew very dear to me . 
We do not know the value of things , Mr. Ritchie , until we are about to lose them . 
'' You did not go back to court ? '' I asked . 
Yes , I went back . 
I thought it my duty . 
Never did the gardens of the Trianon seem more beautiful , or more sad . 
Sometimes the Queen would laugh even then when I mimicked Bailly , Des Moulins , Mirabeau . 
I was with her Majesty in the gardens on that dark , rainy day when the fishwomen came to Versailles . 
The memory of that night will haunt me as long as I live . 
Before the day dawned again the furies had broken into the palace and murdered what was left of the Guard . 
You have heard how they carried off the King and Queen to Paris how they bore the heads of the soldiers on their pikes . 
I saw it from a window , and I shall never forget it . 
'' Her voice faltered , and there were tears on her lashes . 
Some quality in her narration brought before me so vividly the scenes of which she spoke that I started when she had finished . 
There was much more I would have known , but I could not press her to speak longer on a subject that gave her pain . 
At that moment she seemed more distant to me than ever before . 
Why had she told me of it ? Perchance she had thought to do me a kindness ! She came back to me I had not thought she would . 
She sat down with her embroidery in her lap , and for some moments busied herself with it in silence . 
Then she said , without looking up I do not know why I have tired you with this , why I have saddened myself . 
It is past and gone . 
'' I was not tired , Madame . 
It is very difficult to live in the present when the past has been so brilliant , '' I answered . 
So brilliant ! '' She sighed . 
So thoughtless , I think that is the sharpest regret . 
'' I watched her fingers as they stitched , wondering how they could work so rapidly . 
At last she said in a low voice , Antoinette and Mr. Temple have told me something of your life , Mr. Ritchie . 
It has been very humble , '' I replied . 
What I heard was interesting to me , '' she said , turning over her frame . 
Will you not tell me something of it ? '' Gladly , Madame , if that is the case , '' I answered . 
Well , then , '' she said , why don't you ? '' I do not know which part you would like , Madame . 
Shall I tell you about Colonel Clark ? I do not know when to begin '' She dropped her sewing in her lap and looked up at me quickly . 
I told you that you were a strange man , '' she said . 
I almost lose patience with you . 
No , don't tell me about Colonel Clark at least not until you come to him . 
Begin at the beginning , at the cabin in the mountains . 
'' You want the whole of it ! '' I exclaimed . 
She picked up her embroidery again and bent over it with a smile . 
Yes , I want the whole of it . 
'' So I began at the cabin in the mountains . 
I cannot say that I ever forgot she was listening , but I lost myself in the narrative . 
It presented to me , for the first time , many aspects that I had not thought of . 
For instance , that I should be here now in Louisiana telling it to one who had been the companion and friend of the Queen of France . 
Once in a while the Vicomtesse would look up at me swiftly , when I paused , and then go on with her work again . 
The morning wore on to midday , and I told her more than I believed it possible to tell any one . 
When at last I had finished a fear grew upon me that I had told her too much . 
Her fingers still stitched , her head was bent and I could not see her face , only the knot of her hair coiled with an art that struck me suddenly . 
Then she spoke , and her voice was very low . 
I love Polly Ann , '' she said I should like to know her . 
'' I wish that you could know her , '' I answered , quickening . 
She raised her head , and looked at me with an expression that was not a smile . 
I could not say what it was , or what it meant . 
I do not think you are stupid , '' she said , in the same tone , but I do not believe you know how remarkable your life has been . 
I can scarcely realize that you have seen all this , have done all this , have felt all this . 
You are a lawyer , a man of affairs , and yet you could guide me over the hidden paths of half a continent . 
And yet you did not think that this would interest me . 
'' Perchance it was a subtle summons in her voice I heard that bade me open the flood gates of my heart , I know not . 
I know only that no power on earth could have held me silent then . 
Helene ! '' I said , and stopped . 
My heart beat so wildly that I could hear it . 
I do not know why I should dare to think of you , to look up to you Helene , I love you , I shall love you till I die . 
I love you with all the strength that is in me , with all my soul . 
You know it , and if you did not I could hide it no more . 
As long as I live there will never be another woman in the world for me . 
You will forgive me because of the torture I have suffered , because of the pain I shall suffer when I think of you in the years to come . 
'' Her sewing dropped to her lap to the floor . 
She looked at me , and the light which I saw in her eyes flooded my soul with a joy beyond my belief . 
I trembled with a wonder that benumbed me . 
I would have got to my feet had she not come to me swiftly , that I might not rise . 
She stood above me , I lifted up my arms she bent to me with a movement that conferred a priceless thing . 
I dared not think it . 
I I thought there was another . 
'' She was seated on the arm of my chair . 
She drew back her head with a smile trembling on her lips , with a lustre burning in her eyes like a vigil a vigil for me . 
He reminded me of you , '' she answered . 
I was lost in sheer , bewildering happiness . 
And she who created it , who herself was that happiness , roused me from it . 
What are you thinking ? '' she asked . 
I was thinking that a star has fallen , that I may have a jewel beyond other men , '' I said . 
And a star has risen for me , '' she said , that I may have a guide beyond other women . 
'' Then it is you who have raised it , Helene . 
'' I was silent a moment , trying again to bring the matter within my grasp . 
I , who have been the companion of a Queen , love you , will marry you , will go back to Kentucky with you and be content , '' she repeated . 
And yet not I , David , but another woman a happy woman . 
You shall be my refuge , my strength , my guide . 
You will lead me over the mountains and through the wilderness by the paths you know . 
You will bring me to Polly Ann that I may thank her for the gift of you , above all other gifts in the world . 
'' I was silent again . 
Helene , '' I said at last , will you give me the miniature ? '' On one condition , '' she replied . 
Yes , '' I said , yes . 
What is it ? '' That you will obey me sometimes . 
'' It is a privilege I long for , '' I answered . 
You did not begin with promise , '' she said . 
I released her hand , and she drew the ivory from her gown and gave it me . 
I will go to Monsieur Isadore's and get the frame , '' I said . 
When I give you permission , '' said Helene , gently . 
I have written this story for her eyes . 
The Man was Napoleon Buonaparte , at present , for lack of a better name , First Consul of the French Republic . 
The Man's eye , sweeping the world for a new plaything , had rested upon one which had excited the fancy of lesser adventurers , of one John Law , for instance . 
It was a large , unwieldy plaything indeed , and remote . 
A future king of France , while an emigre , had been to Louisiana . 
This is merely an interesting fact worth noting . 
It was not interesting to Napoleon . 
Louisiana was French again , whatever French was in those days . 
The treaty was a profound secret . 
Mr. Jefferson was interested , not to say alarmed . 
Mr. Robert Livingston was about to depart on his mission from the little Republic of America to the great Republic of France . 
Mr. Livingston was told not to make himself disagreeable , but to protest . 
If Spain was to give up the plaything , the Youngest Child among the Nations ought to have it . 
It lay at her doors , it was necessary for her growth . 
Mr. Livingston arrived in France to find that Louisiana was a mere pawn on the chess board , the Republic he represented little more . 
He protested , and the great Talleyrand shrugged his shoulders . 
What was Monsieur talking about ? A treaty . 
What treaty ? A treaty with Spain ceding back Louisiana to France after forty years . 
He called again , pleasantly . 
He was always so happy to see Monsieur when he was not busy . 
He would give Monsieur a certificate of importunity . 
He had quite forgotten what Monsieur was talking about on former occasions . 
Oh , yes , a treaty . 
Mr. Livingston did not cease to indulge in his enjoyable visits to Talleyrand not he . 
But in the intervals he sat down to think . 
What did the inaccessible Man himself have in his mind ? The Man had been considering the Anglo Saxon race , and in particular that portion of it which inhabited the Western Hemisphere . 
He perceived that they were a quarrelsome people , which possessed the lust for land and conquest like the rest of their blood . 
He saw with astonishment something that had happened , something that they had done . 
They had come at length to the great yellow River , and finding it closed had cried aloud in their anger . 
What was beyond it to stop them ? Spain , with a handful of subjects inherited from the France of Louis the Fifteenth . 
Could Spain stop them ? No. But he , the Man , would stop them . 
He would raise up in Louisiana as a monument to himself a daughter of France to curb their ambition . 
America should not be all Anglo Saxon . 
Already the Americans had compelled Spain to open the River . 
That was in July , . 
This was not exactly an order to close the River again in fact , his Majesty said nothing about closing the River . 
Mark the reasoning of the Spanish mind . 
The Intendant closed the River as his plain duty . 
And Kentucky and Tennessee , wayward , belligerent infants who had outgrown their swaddling clothes , were heard from again . 
The Nation had learned to listen to them . 
The Nation was very angry . 
Mr. Hamilton and the Federalists and many others would have gone to war and seized the Floridas . 
Mr. Jefferson said , Wait and see what his Catholic Majesty has to say . 
'' Mr. Jefferson was a man of great wisdom , albeit he had mistaken Jacobinism for something else when he was younger . 
And he knew that Napoleon could not play chess in the wind . 
Mr. Livingston was a patriot , able , importunate , but getting on in years and a little hard of hearing . 
Importunity without an Army and a Navy behind it is not effective especially when there is no wind . 
But Mr. Jefferson heard the wind rising , and he sent Mr. Monroe to Mr. Livingston's aid . 
Mr. Monroe was young , witty , lively , popular with people he met . 
He , too , heard the wind rising , and so now did Mr. Livingston . 
The anchors were not weighed . 
His Catholic Majesty sent word from Spain to Mr. Jefferson that he was sorry his Intendant had been so foolish . 
The River was opened again . 
The Treaty of Amiens was a poor wind shield . 
It blew down , and the chessmen began to totter . 
One George of England , noted for his frugal table and his quarrelsome disposition , who had previously fought with France , began to call the Man names . 
The Man called George names , and sat down to think quickly . 
George meant to go to war again . 
Napoleon also meant to go to war again . 
But George meant to go to war again right away , which was inconvenient and inconsiderate , for Napoleon had not finished his game of chess . 
The obvious outcome of the situation was that George with his Navy would get Louisiana , or else help his relations to get it . 
In either case Louisiana would become Anglo Saxon . 
This was the wind which Mr. Jefferson had heard . 
The Man , being a genius who let go gracefully when he had to , decided between two bad bargains . 
He would sell Louisiana to the Americans as a favor they would be very , very grateful , and they would go on hating George . 
Moreover , he would have all the more money with which to fight George . 
The inaccessible Man suddenly became accessible . 
Nay , he became gracious , smiling , full of loving kindness , charitable . 
Certain dickerings followed by a bargain passed between the American Minister and Monsieur Barbe Marbois . 
Then Mr. Livingston and Mr. Monroe dined with the hitherto inaccessible . 
And the Man , after the manner of Continental Personages , asked questions . 
Frederick the Great has started this fashion , and many have imitated it . 
Louisiana became American at last . 
For I have seen and known and loved the people with all their crudities and faults , whose inheritance it was by right of toil and suffering and blood . 
And I , David Ritchie , saw the flags of three nations waving over it in the space of two days . 
And it came to pass in this wise . 
I will not mention here what my life had become , what my fortune , save to say that both had been far beyond my expectations . 
In worldly goods and honors , in the respect and esteem of my fellow men , I had been happy indeed . 
But I had been blessed above other men by one whose power it was to lift me above the mean and sordid things of this world . 
So , in the bright and boisterous March weather of the year , we found ourselves riding together along the way made memorable by the footsteps of Clark and his backwoodsmen . 
For I had an errand in St . 
A subtle change had come upon Kaskaskia with the new blood which was flowing into it we passed Cahokia , full of memories to the drummer boy whom she loved . 
There was the church , the garrison , the stream , and the little house where my Colonel and I had lived together . 
She must see them all , she must hear the story from my lips again and the telling of it to her gave it a new fire and a new life . 
At evening , when the March wind had torn the cotton clouds to shreds , we stood on the Mississippi's bank , gazing at the western shore , at Louisiana . 
The low , forest clad hills made a black band against the sky , and above the band hung the sun , a red ball . 
He was setting , and man might look upon his face without fear . 
The sight of the waters of that river stirred me to think of many things . 
We crossed the river to the village where I had been so kindly received many years ago to St . 
The place was little changed . 
The wind was stilled , the blue wood smoke curled lazily from the wide stone chimneys of the houses nestling against the hill . 
The afterglow was fading into night lights twinkled in the windows . 
Followed by our servants we climbed the bank , Helene and I , and walked the quiet streets bordered by palings . 
We passed a bright cabaret from which came the sound of many voices in the blacksmith's shop another group was gathered , and we saw faces eager in the red light . 
They were talking of the Cession . 
We passed that place where Nick had stopped Suzanne in the cart , and laughed at the remembrance . 
We came to Monsieur Gratiot's , for he had bidden us to stay with him . 
And she was ever Madame la Vicomtesse to our good friends in St . 
Louis , for she was a woman to whom a title came as by nature's right . 
And you are about to behold another strange thing David , '' Monsieur Gratiot continued . 
To day you are on French territory . 
'' French territory ! '' I exclaimed . 
To day Upper Louisiana is French , '' he answered . 
To morrow it will be American forever . 
This morning Captain Stoddard of the United States Army , empowered to act as a Commissioner of the French Republic , arrived with Captain Lewis and a guard of American troops . 
Today , at noon , the flag of Spain was lowered from the staff at the headquarters . 
To night a guard of honor watches with the French Tricolor , and we are French for the last time . 
To morrow we shall be Americans . 
'' I saw that simple ceremony . 
The little company of soldiers was drawn up before the low stone headquarters , the villagers with heads uncovered gathered round about . 
I saw the Stars and Stripes rising , the Tricolor setting . 
The Crossing was the first instinctive reaching out of an infant nation which was one day to become a giant . 
No annals in the world's history are more wonderful than the story of the conquest of Kentucky and Tennessee by the pioneers . 
This name , The Crossing , '' is likewise typical in another sense . 
'' By Liberty , our forefathers meant the Duty as well as the Right of man to govern himself . 
The Constitution amply attests the greatness of its authors , but it was a compromise . 
It was an attempt to satisfy thirteen colonies , each of which clung tenaciously to its identity . 
It suited the eighteenth century conditions of a little English speaking confederacy along the seaboard , far removed from the world's strife and jealousy . 
Would the Constitution , made to meet the needs of the little confederacy of the seaboard , stretch over a Continent and an Empire ? We are fighting out that question to day . 
But The Crossing was in Daniel Boone's time , in George Rogers Clark's . 
The autobiography of David Ritchie is as near as I can get to its solution , and I have a great sense of its incompleteness . 
This work will have to be reserved for a future time . 
I have tried to give a true history of Clark's campaign as seen by an eyewitness , trammelled as little as possible by romance . 
Elsewhere , as I look back through these pages , I feel as though the soil had only been scraped . 
What principality in the world has the story to rival that of John Sevier and the State of Franklin ? I have tried to tell the truth as I went along . 
General Jackson was a boy at the Waxhaws and dug his toes in the red mud . 
He was a man at Jonesboro , and tradition says that he fought with a fence rail . 
Sevier was captured as narrated . 
Monsieur Gratiot , Monsieur Vigo , and Father Gibault lost the money which they gave to Clark and their country . 
Monsieur Vigo actually travelled in the state which Davy describes when he went down the river with him . 
Monsieur Gratiot and Colonel Auguste Chouteau and Madame Chouteau are names so well known in St . 
Louis that it is superfluous to say that such persons existed and were the foremost citizens of the community . 
Among the many to whom my apologies and thanks are due is Mr. Pierre Chouteau of St . 
Louis , whose unremitting labors have preserved and perpetuated the history and traditions of the country of his ancestors . 
I would that I had been better able to picture the character , the courage , the ability , and patriotism of the French who settled Louisiana . 
The Republic owes them much , and their descendants are to day among the stanchest preservers of her ideals . 
