And at the time I thought that so far as he was concerned it was a true story . 
He told it me with such a direct simplicity of conviction that I could not do otherwise than believe in him . 
He was mystifying ! I said , and then How well he did it ! . 
It isn't quite the thing I should have expected him , of all people , to do well . 
Well , I don't resort to that explanation now . 
I have got over my intervening doubts . 
I believe now , as I believed at the moment of telling , that Wallace did to the very best of his ability strip the truth of his secret for me . 
Even the facts of his death , which ended my doubts forever , throw no light on that . 
That much the reader must judge for himself . 
I forget now what chance comment or criticism of mine moved so reticent a man to confide in me . 
He was , I think , defending himself against an imputation of slackness and unreliability I had made in relation to a great public movement in which he had disappointed me . 
I have he said , a preoccupation I know , he went on , after a pause that he devoted to the study of his cigar ash , I have been negligent . 
The fact is it isn't a case of ghosts or apparitions but it's an odd thing to tell of , Redmond I am haunted . 
I am haunted by something that rather takes the light out of things , that fills me with longings . 
He paused , checked by that English shyness that so often overcomes us when we would speak of moving or grave or beautiful things . 
You were at Saint Athelstan's all through , he said , and for a moment that seemed to me quite irrelevant . 
Now that I have the clue to it , the thing seems written visibly in his face . 
I have a photograph in which that look of detachment has been caught and intensified . 
It reminds me of what a woman once said of him a woman who had loved him greatly . 
Suddenly , she said , the interest goes out of him . 
He doesn't care a rap for you under his very nose . 
Yet the interest was not always out of him , and when he was holding his attention to a thing Wallace could contrive to be an extremely successful man . 
His career , indeed , is set with successes . 
He left me behind him long ago he soared up over my head , and cut a figure in the world that I couldn't cut anyhow . 
He was still a year short of forty , and they say now that he would have been in office and very probably in the new Cabinet if he had lived . 
At school he always beat me without effort as it were by nature . 
We were at school together at Saint Athelstan's College in West Kensington for almost all our school time . 
He came into the school as my co equal , but he left far above me , in a blaze of scholarships and brilliant performance . 
Yet I think I made a fair average running . 
And it was at school I heard first of the Door in the Wall that I was to hear of a second time only a month before his death . 
To him at least the Door in the Wall was a real door leading through a real wall to immortal realities . 
Of that I am now quite assured . 
And it came into his life early , when he was a little fellow between five and six . 
I remember how , as he sat making his confession to me with a slow gravity , he reasoned and reckoned the date of it . 
There was , he said , a crimson Virginia creeper in it all one bright uniform crimson in a clear amber sunshine against a white wall . 
That came into the impression somehow , though I don't clearly remember how , and there were horse chestnut leaves upon the clean pavement outside the green door . 
They were blotched yellow and green , you know , not brown nor dirty , so that they must have been new fallen . 
I take it that means October . 
I look out for horse chestnut leaves every year , and I ought to know . 
If I'm right in that , I was about five years and four months old . 
His mother died when he was born , and he was under the less vigilant and authoritative care of a nursery governess . 
His father was a stern , preoccupied lawyer , who gave him little attention , and expected great things of him . 
For all his brightness he found life a little grey and dull I think . 
And one day he wandered . 
He could not recall the particular neglect that enabled him to get away , nor the course he took among the West Kensington roads . 
All that had faded among the incurable blurs of memory . 
But the white wall and the green door stood out quite distinctly . 
And at the same time he had the clearest conviction that either it was unwise or it was wrong of him he could not tell which to yield to this attraction . 
I seem to see the figure of that little boy , drawn and repelled . 
Wallace described all these moments of hesitation to me with the utmost particularity . 
He stood pretending to examine these things , and coveting , passionately desiring the green door . 
Then , he said , he had a gust of emotion . 
He made a run for it , lest hesitation should grip him again , he went plump with outstretched hand through the green door and let it slam behind him . 
And so , in a trice , he came into the garden that has haunted all his life . 
It was very difficult for Wallace to give me his full sense of that garden into which he came . 
In the instant of coming into it one was exquisitely glad as only in rare moments and when one is young and joyful one can be glad in this world . 
And everything was beautiful there . 
Wallace mused before he went on telling me . 
You see , he said , with the doubtful inflection of a man who pauses at incredible things , there were two great panthers there . 
And I was not afraid . 
There was a long wide path with marble edged flower borders on either side , and these two huge velvety beasts were playing there with a ball . 
One looked up and came towards me , a little curious as it seemed . 
It came right up to me , rubbed its soft round ear very gently against the small hand I held out and purred . 
It was , I tell you , an enchanted garden . 
And the size ? Oh ! it stretched far and wide , this way and that . 
I believe there were hills far away . 
Heaven knows where West Kensington had suddenly got to . 
And somehow it was just like coming home . 
I became in a moment a very glad and wonder happy little boy in another world . 
And before me ran this long wide path , invitingly , with weedless beds on either side , rich with untended flowers , and these two great panthers . 
There were broad steps , I remember , that came into view between spikes of delphinium , and up these we went to a great avenue between very old and shady dark trees . 
All down this avenue , you know , between the red chapped stems , were marble seats of honour and statuary , and very tame and friendly white doves . 
So we went on our way in great happiness . 
Go on , I said . 
And there were many things and many people , some that still seem to stand out clearly and some that are a little vague , but all these people were beautiful and kind . 
Yes He mused for awhile . 
That was very much to me , because I was a lonely little boy . 
They played delightful games in a grass covered court where there was a sun dial set about with flowers . 
And as one played one loved . 
But it's odd there's a gap in my memory . 
I don't remember the games we played . 
Afterwards , as a child , I spent long hours trying , even with tears , to recall the form of that happiness . 
I wanted to play it all over again in my nursery by myself . 
No ! All I remember is the happiness and two dear playfellows who were most with me . 
'Come back to us ! they cried . 
'Come back to us soon ! I looked up at her face , but she heeded them not at all . 
Her face was very gentle and grave . 
She took me to a seat in the gallery , and I stood beside her , ready to look at her book as she opened it upon her knee . 
It was wonderful to me , because the pages of that book were not pictures , you understand , but realities . 
Wallace paused gravely looked at me doubtfully . 
Go on , I said . 
'And next ? I cried , and would have turned on , but the cool hand of the grave woman delayed me . 
Oh ! the wretchedness of that return ! he murmured . 
Well ? I said after a minute or so . 
Poor little wretch I was brought back to this grey world again ! As I realised the fulness of what had happened to me , I gave way to quite ungovernable grief . 
And the shame and humiliation of that public weeping and my disgraceful homecoming remain with me still . 
I see again the benevolent looking old gentleman in gold spectacles who stopped and spoke to me prodding me first with his umbrella . 
Sobbing , conspicuous and frightened , I came from the enchanted garden to the steps of my father's house . 
That is as well as I can remember my vision of that garden the garden that haunts me still . 
If it was a dream , I am sure it was a day time and altogether extraordinary dream . 
H'm ! naturally there followed a terrible questioning , by my aunt , my father , the nurse , the governess everyone . 
I tried to tell them , and my father gave me my first thrashing for telling lies . 
When afterwards I tried to tell my aunt , she punished me again for my wicked persistence . 
Then , as I said , everyone was forbidden to listen to me , to hear a word about it . 
Even my fairy tale books were taken away from me for a time because I was 'too imaginative . 
Eh ? Yes , they did that ! My father belonged to the old school . 
And my story was driven back upon myself . 
I whispered it to my pillow my pillow that was often damp and salt to my whispering lips with childish tears . 
And I added always to my official and less fervent prayers this one heartfelt request 'Please God I may dream of the garden . 
Oh ! take me back to my garden ! Take me back to my garden ! I dreamt often of the garden . 
I may have added to it , I may have changed it I do not know . 
All this you understand is an attempt to reconstruct from fragmentary memories a very early experience . 
Between that and the other consecutive memories of my boyhood there is a gulf . 
A time came when it seemed impossible I should ever speak of that wonder glimpse again . 
I asked an obvious question . 
I don't remember that I ever attempted to find my way back to the garden in those early years . 
This seems odd to me now , but I think that very probably a closer watch was kept on my movements after this misadventure to prevent my going astray . 
No , it wasn't until you knew me that I tried for the garden again . 
And I believe there was a period incredible as it seems now when I forgot the garden altogether when I was about eight or nine it may have been . 
Did you ever play North West Passage with me ? . 
No , of course you didn't come my way ! It was the sort of game , he went on , that every imaginative child plays all day . 
The idea was the discovery of a North West Passage to school . 
I tried rather desperately a street that seemed a cul de sac , and found a passage at the end . 
I hurried through that with renewed hope . 
Then , after all , that garden , that wonderful garden , wasn't a dream ! . 
I suppose my second experience with the green door marks the world of difference there is between the busy life of a schoolboy and the infinite leisure of a child . 
Anyhow , this second time I didn't for a moment think of going in straight away . 
For one thing my mind was full of the idea of getting to school in time set on not breaking my record for punctuality . 
I must surely have felt SOME little desire at least to try the door yes , I must have felt that . 
But I seem to remember the attraction of the door mainly as another obstacle to my overmastering determination to get to school . 
I was immediately interested by this discovery I had made , of course I went on with my mind full of it but I went on . 
I ran past tugging out my watch , found I had ten minutes still to spare , and then I was going downhill into familiar surroundings . 
I got to school , breathless , it is true , and wet with perspiration , but in time . 
I can remember hanging up my coat and hat . 
Went right by it and left it behind me . 
Odd , eh ? He looked at me thoughtfully . 
Of course , I didn't know then that it wouldn't always be there . 
School boys have limited imaginations . 
I suppose I thought it was an awfully jolly thing to have it there , to know my way back to it , but there was the school tugging at me . 
I expect I was a good deal distraught and inattentive that morning , recalling what I could of the beautiful strange people I should presently see again . 
Oddly enough I had no doubt in my mind that they would be glad to see me . 
Yes , I must have thought of the garden that morning just as a jolly sort of place to which one might resort in the interludes of a strenuous scholastic career . 
I didn't go that day at all . 
The next day was a half holiday , and that may have weighed with me . 
Perhaps , too , my state of inattention brought down impositions upon me and docked the margin of time necessary for the detour . 
What I do know is that in the meantime the enchanted garden was so much upon my mind that I could not keep it to myself . 
I told What was his name ? a ferrety looking youngster we used to call Squiff . 
Young Hopkins , said I. Hopkins it was . 
I did not like telling him , I had a feeling that in some way it was against the rules to tell him , but I did . 
Well , he told my secret . 
The next day in the play interval I found myself surrounded by half a dozen bigger boys , half teasing and wholly curious to hear more of the enchanted garden . 
There was that big Fawcett you remember him ? and Carnaby and Morley Reynolds . 
You weren't there by any chance ? No , I think I should have remembered if you were . 
A boy is a creature of odd feelings . 
I was , I really believe , in spite of my secret self disgust , a little flattered to have the attention of these big fellows . 
But at the same time there was a really painful undertow of shame at telling what I felt was indeed a sacred secret . 
That beast Fawcett made a joke about the girl in green . 
Wallace's voice sank with the keen memory of that shame . 
I pretended not to hear , he said . 
Well , then Carnaby suddenly called me a young liar and disputed with me when I said the thing was true . 
I said I knew where to find the green door , could lead them all there in ten minutes . 
Carnaby became outrageously virtuous , and said I'd have to and bear out my words or suffer . 
Did you ever have Carnaby twist your arm ? Then perhaps you'll understand how it went with me . 
I swore my story was true . 
There was nobody in the school then to save a chap from Carnaby though Crawshaw put in a word or so . 
Carnaby had got his game . 
We never found the white wall and the green door . 
You mean ? I mean I couldn't find it . 
I would have found it if I could . 
And afterwards when I could go alone I couldn't find it . 
I seem now to have been always looking for it through my school boy days , but I've never come upon it again . 
Did the fellows make it disagreeable ? Beastly . 
Carnaby held a council over me for wanton lying . 
I remember how I sneaked home and upstairs to hide the marks of my blubbering . 
I believed firmly that if I had not told . 
I had bad times after that crying at night and woolgathering by day . 
For two terms I slackened and had bad reports . 
Do you remember ? Of course you would ! It was YOU your beating me in mathematics that brought me back to the grind again . 
III For a time my friend stared silently into the red heart of the fire . 
Then he said I never saw it again until I was seventeen . 
It leapt upon me for the third time as I was driving to Paddington on my way to Oxford and a scholarship . 
I had just one momentary glimpse . 
We clattered by I too taken by surprise to stop my cab until we were well past and round a corner . 
'Yes , sir ! said the cabman , smartly . 
'Er well it's nothing , I cried . 
'MY mistake ! We haven't much time ! Go on ! and he went on . 
Those dear friends and that clear atmosphere seemed very sweet to me , very fine , but remote . 
My grip was fixing now upon the world . 
I saw another door opening the door of my career . 
He stared again into the fire . 
Its red lights picked out a stubborn strength in his face for just one flickering moment , and then it vanished again . 
Well , he said and sighed , I have served that career . 
I have done much work , much hard work . 
But I have dreamt of the enchanted garden a thousand dreams , and seen its door , or at least glimpsed its door , four times since then . 
For a while this world was so bright and interesting , seemed so full of meaning and opportunity that the half effaced charm of the garden was by comparison gentle and remote . 
Something and yet there have been disappointments . 
'Odd ! said I to myself , 'but I thought this place was on Campden Hill . 
It's the place I never could find somehow like counting Stonehenge the place of that queer day dream of mine . 
And I went by it intent upon my purpose . 
It had no appeal to me that afternoon . 
Yes , that time made me very sorry . 
Years of hard work after that and never a sight of the door . 
It's only recently it has come back to me . 
With it there has come a sense as though some thin tarnish had spread itself over my world . 
I began to think of it as a sorrowful and bitter thing that I should never see that door again . 
Perhaps I was suffering a little from overwork perhaps it was what I've heard spoken of as the feeling of forty . 
Odd , isn't it ? But I do begin to find life toilsome , its rewards , as I come near them , cheap . 
I began a little while ago to want the garden quite badly . 
Yes and I've seen it three times . 
The garden ? No the door ! And I haven't gone in ! He leaned over the table to me , with an enormous sorrow in his voice as he spoke . 
I will go and never return . 
This time I will stay . 
I swore it and when the time came I DIDN'T GO . 
Three times in one year have I passed that door and failed to enter . 
Three times in the last year . 
The first time was on the night of the snatch division on the Tenants' Redemption Bill , on which the Government was saved by a majority of three . 
You remember ? No one on our side perhaps very few on the opposite side expected the end that night . 
Then the debate collapsed like eggshells . 
I and Hotchkiss were dining with his cousin at Brentford , we were both unpaired , and we were called up by telephone , and set off at once in his cousin's motor . 
'My God ! cried I. 'What ? 'said Hotchkiss . 
'Nothing ! I answered , and the moment passed . 
'I've made a great sacrifice , I told the whip as I got in . 
'They all have , he said , and hurried by . 
I do not see how I could have done otherwise then . 
And the next occasion was as I rushed to my father's bedside to bid that stern old man farewell . 
Then , too , the claims of life were imperative . 
But the third time was different it happened a week ago . 
It fills me with hot remorse to recall it . 
I was with Gurker and Ralphs it's no secret now you know that I've had my talk with Gurker . 
We had been dining at Frobisher's , and the talk had become intimate between us . 
The question of my place in the reconstructed ministry lay always just over the boundary of the discussion . 
It needn't be talked about yet , but there's no reason to keep a secret from you . 
Yes thanks ! thanks ! But let me tell you my story . 
Then , on that night things were very much in the air . 
My position was a very delicate one . 
I was keenly anxious to get some definite word from Gurker , but was hampered by Ralphs' presence . 
I was using the best power of my brain to keep that light and careless talk not too obviously directed to the point that concerns me . 
Ralphs' behaviour since has more than justified my caution . 
Ralphs , I knew , would leave us beyond the Kensington High Street , and then I could surprise Gurker by a sudden frankness . 
One has sometimes to resort to these little devices . 
And then it was that in the margin of my field of vision I became aware once more of the white wall , the green door before us down the road . 
I passed within twenty inches of the door . 
'If I say good night to them , and go in , I asked myself , 'what will happen ? And I was all a tingle for that word with Gurker . 
I could not answer that question in the tangle of my other problems . 
'They will think me mad , I thought . 
'And suppose I vanish now ! Amazing disappearance of a prominent politician ! That weighed with me . 
A thousand inconceivably petty worldlinesses weighed with me in that crisis . 
Then he turned on me with a sorrowful smile , and , speaking slowly Here I am ! he said . 
Here I am ! he repeated , and my chance has gone from me . 
And I have rejected it , Redmond , and it has gone How do you know ? I know . 
I am left now to work it out , to stick to the tasks that held me so strongly when my moments came . 
You say , I have success this vulgar , tawdry , irksome , envied thing . 
He had a walnut in his big hand . 
If that was my success , he said , and crushed it , and held it out for me to see . 
Let me tell you something , Redmond . 
This loss is destroying me . 
For two months , for ten weeks nearly now , I have done no work at all , except the most necessary and urgent duties . 
My soul is full of inappeasable regrets . 
At nights when it is less likely I shall be recognised I go out . 
I wonder what people would think of that if they knew . 
I see him very vividly to night . 
I sit recalling his words , his tones , and last evening's Westminster Gazette still lies on my sofa , containing the notice of his death . 
At lunch to day the club was busy with him and the strange riddle of his fate . 
They found his body very early yesterday morning in a deep excavation near East Kensington Station . 
It is one of two shafts that have been made in connection with an extension of the railway southward . 
The doorway was left unfastened through a misunderstanding between two gangers , and through it he made his way . 
My mind is darkened with questions and riddles . 
I have told his story as he told it to me . 
At any rate , you will say , it betrayed him in the end . 
But did it betray him ? There you touch the inmost mystery of these dreamers , these men of vision and the imagination . 
We see our world fair and common , the hoarding and the pit . 
By our daylight standard he walked out of security into darkness , danger and death . 
Ogilvy had already called attention to a suspected retardation in its velocity in December . 
Few people without a training in science can realise the huge isolation of the solar system . 
The sun with its specks of planets , its dust of planetoids , and its impalpable comets , swims in a vacant immensity that almost defeats the imagination . 
That is the smallest estimate of the distance to be traversed before the very nearest of the stars is attained . 
A vast mass of matter it was , bulky , heavy , rushing without warning out of the black mystery of the sky into the radiance of the sun . 
By the second day it was clearly visible to any decent instrument , as a speck with a barely sensible diameter , in the constellation Leo near Regulus . 
In a little while an opera glass could attain it . 
On the third day of the new year the newspaper readers of two hemispheres were made aware for the first time of the real importance of this unusual apparition in the heavens . 
A Planetary Collision , one London paper headed the news , and proclaimed Duchaine's opinion that this strange new planet would probably collide with Neptune . 
Until it was dawn in London and Pollux setting and the stars overhead grown pale . 
The Winter's dawn it was , a sickly filtering accumulation of daylight , and the light of gas and candles shone yellow in the windows to show where people were astir . 
It still glowed out white and large , no mere twinkling spot of light , but a small round clear shining disc , an hour after the day had come . 
And where science has not reached , men stared and feared , telling one another of the wars and pestilences that are foreshadowed by these fiery signs in the Heavens . 
Sturdy Boers , dusky Hottentots , Gold Coast Negroes , Frenchmen , Spaniards , Portuguese , stood in the warmth of the sunrise watching the setting of this strange new star . 
For it was a world , a sister planet of our earth , far greater than our earth indeed , that had so suddenly flashed into flaming death . 
Round the world that day , two hours before the dawn , went the pallid great white star , fading only as it sank westward and the sun mounted above it . 
It is larger , they cried . 
It is brighter ! cried the people clustering in the streets . 
But in the dim observatories the watchers held their breath and peered at one another IT IS NEARER , they said . 
Pretty women , flushed and glittering , heard the news told jestingly between the dances , and feigned an intelligent interest they did not feel . 
How curious ! How very , very clever people must be to find out things like that ! Lonely tramps faring through the wintry night murmured those words to comfort themselves looking skyward . 
It has need to be nearer , for the night's as cold as charity . 
Don't seem much warmth from it if it IS nearer , all the same . 
What is a new star to me ? cried the weeping woman kneeling beside her dead . 
The schoolboy , rising early for his examination work , puzzled it out for himself with the great white star shining broad and bright through the frost flowers of his window . 
Centrifugal , centripetal , he said , with his chin on his fist . 
And it was now so bright that the waxing moon seemed but a pale yellow ghost of itself , hanging huge in the sunset . 
In a South African City a great man had married , and the streets were alight to welcome his return with his bride . 
Even the skies have illuminated , said the flatterer . 
Under Capricorn , two negro lovers , daring the wild beasts and evil spirits , for love of one another , crouched together in a cane brake where the fire flies hovered . 
That is our star , they whispered , and felt strangely comforted by the sweet brilliance of its light . 
The master mathematician sat in his private room and pushed the papers from him . 
His calculations were already finished . 
In a small white phial there still remained a little of the drug that had kept him awake and active for four long nights . 
Each day , serene , explicit , patient as ever , he had given his lecture to his students , and then had come back at once to this momentous calculation . 
His face was grave , a little drawn and hectic from his drugged activity . 
For some time he seemed lost in thought . 
Then he went to the window , and the blind went up with a click . 
Half way up the sky , over the clustering roofs , chimneys and steeples of the city , hung the star . 
He looked at it as one might look into the eyes of a brave enemy . 
You may kill me , he said after a silence . 
But I can hold you and all the universe for that matter in the grip of this little brain . 
He looked at the little phial . 
There will be no need of sleep again , he said . 
He came and looked under his grey eyebrows at the rising tiers of young fresh faces , and spoke with his accustomed studied commonness of phrasing . 
Circumstances have arisen circumstances beyond my control , he said and paused , which will debar me from completing the course I had designed . 
It would seem , gentlemen , if I may put the thing clearly and briefly , that Man has lived in vain . 
The students glanced at one another . 
Had they heard aright ? Mad ? Raised eyebrows and grinning lips there were , but one or two faces remained intent upon his calm grey fringed face . 
Let us assume He turned towards the blackboard , meditating a diagram in the way that was usual to him . 
What was that about 'lived in vain ? whispered one student to another . 
Listen , said the other , nodding towards the lecturer . 
And presently they began to understand . 
It was very white and beautiful . 
In many parts of the world that night a pallid halo encircled it about . 
It was perceptibly larger in the clear refractive sky of the tropics it seemed as if it were nearly a quarter the size of the moon . 
The frost was still on the ground in England , but the world was as brightly lit as if it were midsummer moonlight . 
One could see to read quite ordinary print by that cold clear light , and in the cities the lamps burnt yellow and wan . 
And overhead , growing larger and brighter as the earth rolled on its way and the night passed , rose the dazzling star . 
And the streets and houses were alight in all the cities , the shipyards glared , and whatever roads led to high country were lit and crowded all night long . 
For already the warning of the master mathematician had been telegraphed all over the world , and translated into a hundred tongues . 
The new planet and Neptune , locked in a fiery embrace , were whirling headlong , ever faster and faster towards the sun . 
Already every second this blazing mass flew a hundred miles , and every second its terrific velocity increased . 
As it flew now , indeed , it must pass a hundred million of miles wide of the earth and scarcely affect it . 
But near its destined path , as yet only slightly perturbed , spun the mighty planet Jupiter and his moons sweeping splendid round the sun . 
Every moment now the attraction between the fiery star and the greatest of the planets grew stronger . 
Earthquakes , volcanic outbreaks , cyclones , sea waves , floods , and a steady rise in temperature to I know not what limit so prophesied the master mathematician . 
And overhead , to carry out his words , lonely and cold and livid , blazed the star of the coming doom . 
To many who stared at it that night until their eyes ached , it seemed that it was visibly approaching . 
And that night , too , the weather changed , and the frost that had gripped all Central Europe and France and England softened towards a thaw . 
The presses of the newspapers roared through the night , and many a priest of this church and that would not open his holy building to further what he considered a foolish panic . 
The newspapers insisted on the lesson of the year for then , too , people had anticipated the end . 
The star was no star mere gas a comet and were it a star it could not possibly strike the earth . 
There was no precedent for such a thing . 
Common sense was sturdy everywhere , scornful , jesting , a little inclined to persecute the obdurate fearful . 
That night , at seven fifteen by Greenwich time , the star would be at its nearest to Jupiter . 
Then the world would see the turn things would take . 
The master mathematician's grim warnings were treated by many as so much mere elaborate self advertisement . 
Common sense at last , a little heated by argument , signified its unalterable convictions by going to bed . 
But hereafter the laughter ceased . 
The next night it had become a third the size of the moon before it set to English eyes , and the thaw was assured . 
Lawrence valley , it shone intermittently through a driving reek of thunder clouds , flickering violet lightning , and hail unprecedented . 
In Manitoba was a thaw and devastating floods . 
They rose steadily , steadily in the ghostly brilliance , and came trickling over their banks at last , behind the flying population of their valleys . 
And so great grew the heat during the night that the rising of the sun was like the coming of a shadow . 
The earthquakes began and grew until all down America from the Arctic Circle to Cape Horn , hillsides were sliding , fissures were opening , and houses and walls crumbling to destruction . 
Above was the lava , hot gases and ash , and below the seething floods , and the whole earth swayed and rumbled with the earthquake shocks . 
Soon the immemorial snows of Thibet and the Himalaya were melting and pouring down by ten million deepening converging channels upon the plains of Burmah and Hindostan . 
And in a rudderless confusion a multitude of men and women fled down the broad river ways to that one last hope of men the open sea . 
Larger grew the star , and larger , hotter , and brighter with a terrible swiftness now . 
The tropical ocean had lost its phosphorescence , and the whirling steam rose in ghostly wreaths from the black waves that plunged incessantly , speckled with storm tossed ships . 
And then came a wonder . 
It seemed to those who in Europe watched for the rising of the star that the world must have ceased its rotation . 
In a thousand open spaces of down and upland the people who had fled thither from the floods and the falling houses and sliding slopes of hill watched for that rising in vain . 
Hour followed hour through a terrible suspense , and the star rose not . 
Once again men set their eyes upon the old constellations they had counted lost to them forever . 
In England it was hot and clear overhead , though the ground quivered perpetually , but in the tropics , Sirius and Capella and Aldebaran showed through a veil of steam . 
And when at last the great star rose near ten hours late , the sun rose close upon it , and in the centre of its white heart was a disc of black . 
Over Asia it was the star had begun to fall behind the movement of the sky , and then suddenly , as it hung over India , its light had been veiled . 
Every minaret was a clustering mass of people , who fell one by one into the turbid waters , as heat and terror overcame them . 
Men looking up , near blinded , at the star , saw that a black disc was creeping across the light . 
It was the moon , coming between the star and the earth . 
And even as men cried to God at this respite , out of the East with a strange inexplicable swiftness sprang the sun . 
And then star , sun and moon rushed together across the heavens . 
The moon no longer eclipsed the star but was lost to sight in the brilliance of the sky . 
Star and earth had been at their nearest , had swung about one another , and the star had passed . 
Already it was receding , swifter and swifter , in the last stage of its headlong journey downward into the sun . 
For days the water streamed off the land , sweeping away soil and trees and houses in the way , and piling huge dykes and scooping out Titanic gullies over the country side . 
Those were the days of darkness that followed the star and the heat . 
All through them , and for many weeks and months , the earthquakes continued . 
But the star had passed , and men , hunger driven and gathering courage only slowly , might creep back to their ruined cities , buried granaries , and sodden fields . 
Such few ships as had escaped the storms of that time came stunned and shattered and sounding their way cautiously through the new marks and shoals of once familiar ports . 
Nor of the movement of mankind now that the earth was hotter , northward and southward towards the poles of the earth . 
It concerns itself only with the coming and the passing of the Star . 
The Martian astronomers for there are astronomers on Mars , although they are very different beings from men were naturally profoundly interested by these things . 
They saw them from their own standpoint of course . 
All the familiar continental markings and the masses of the seas remain intact , and indeed the only difference seems to be a shrinkage of the white discoloration round either pole . 
Which only shows how small the vastest of human catastrophes may seem , at a distance of a few million miles . 
A DREAM OF ARMAGEDDON The man with the white face entered the carriage at Rugby . 
He moved slowly in spite of the urgency of his porter , and even while he was still on the platform I noted how ill he seemed . 
He dropped into the corner over against me with a sigh , made an incomplete attempt to arrange his travelling shawl , and became motionless , with his eyes staring vacantly . 
Presently he was moved by a sense of my observation , looked up at me , and put out a spiritless hand for his newspaper . 
Then he glanced again in my direction . 
I feared I had unwittingly embarrassed him , and in a moment I was surprised to find him speaking . 
I beg your pardon ? said I. That book , he repeated , pointing a lean finger , is about dreams . 
Obviously , I answered , for it was Fortnum Roscoe's Dream States , and the title was on the cover . 
He hung silent for a space as if he sought words . 
Yes , he said at last , but they tell you nothing . 
I did not catch his meaning for a second . 
They don't know , he added . 
I looked a little more attentively at his face . 
There are dreams , he said , and dreams . 
That sort of proposition I never dispute . 
Do you ever dream ? I mean vividly . 
I dream very little , I answered . 
I doubt if I have three vivid dreams in a year . 
Ah ! he said , and seemed for a moment to collect his thoughts . 
Your dreams don't mix with your memories ? he asked abruptly . 
You don't find yourself in doubt did this happen or did it not ? Hardly ever . 
Except just for a momentary hesitation now and then . 
I suppose few people do . 
Does he say ? He indicated the book . 
Says it happens at times and gives the usual explanation about intensity of impression and the like to account for its not happening as a rule . 
I suppose you know something of these theories Very little except that they are wrong . 
His emaciated hand played with the strap of the window for a time . 
I prepared to resume reading , and that seemed to precipitate his next remark . 
He leant forward almost as though he would touch me . 
Isn't there something called consecutive dreaming that goes on night after night ? I believe there is . 
There are cases given in most books on mental trouble . 
It's the right place for them . 
But what I mean He looked at his bony knuckles . 
I remember now the look of his faded eyes and the lids red stained perhaps you know that look . 
I'm not just arguing about a matter of opinion , he said . 
Dreams ? If you call them dreams . 
seems unreal in comparison ! I can scarcely remember who I am , what business I am on . 
Even now The dream is always the same do you mean ? I asked . 
You mean ? I died . 
Died ? Smashed and killed , and now , so much of me as that dream was , is dead . 
I dreamt I was another man , you know , living in a different part of the world and in a different time . 
I dreamt that night after night . 
Night after night I woke into that other life . 
Fresh scenes and fresh happenings until I came upon the last When you died ? When I died . 
And since then No , he said . 
Thank God ! That was the end of the dream . 
It was clear I was in for this dream . 
And after all , I had an hour before me , the light was fading fast , and Fortnum Roscoe has a dreary way with him . 
Living in a different time , I said do you mean in some different age ? Yes . 
Past ? No , to come to come . 
The year three thousand , for example ? I don't know what year it was . 
I did when I was asleep , when I was dreaming , that is , but not now not now that I am awake . 
There's a lot of things I have forgotten since I woke out of these dreams , though I knew them at the time when I was I suppose it was dreaming . 
They called the year differently from our way of calling the year . 
What did they call it ? He put his hand to his forehead . 
No , said he , I forget . 
For a moment I feared he did not mean to tell me his dream . 
As a rule I hate people who tell their dreams , but this struck me differently . 
It was vivid from the first . 
I seemed to wake up in it suddenly . 
And it's curious that in these dreams I am speaking of I never remembered this life I am living now . 
It seemed as if the dream life was enough while it lasted . 
Perhaps But I will tell you how I find myself when I do my best to recall it all . 
I don't remember anything clearly until I found myself sitting in a sort of loggia looking out over the sea . 
I had been dozing , and suddenly I woke up fresh and vivid not a bit dreamlike because the girl had stopped fanning me . 
The girl ? Yes , the girl . 
You must not interrupt or you will put me out . 
You won't think I'm mad ? he said . 
I woke up , I say , because the girl had stopped fanning me . 
I was not surprised to find myself there or anything of that sort , you understand . 
I did not feel I had fallen into it suddenly . 
I simply took it up at that point . 
Whatever memory I had of this life , this nineteenth century life , faded as I woke , vanished like a dream . 
I knew all about myself , knew that my name was no longer Cooper but Hedon , and all about my position in the world . 
I've forgotten a lot since I woke there's a want of connection but it was all quite clear and matter of fact then . 
He hesitated again , gripping the window strap , putting his face forward and looking up to me appealingly . 
This seems bosh to you ? No , no ! I cried . 
Tell me what this loggia was like ! It was not really a loggia I don't know what to call it . 
It was all in shadow except the semicircle above the balcony that showed the sky and sea and the corner where the girl stood . 
I was on a couch it was a metal couch with light striped cushions and the girl was leaning over the balcony with her back to me . 
The light of the sunrise fell on her ear and cheek . 
She was dressed how can I describe it ? It was easy and flowing . 
And altogether there she stood , so that it came to me how beautiful and desirable she was , as though I had never seen her before . 
And when at last I sighed and raised myself upon my arm she turned her face to me He stopped . 
I have lived three and fifty years in this world . 
I have had mother , sisters , friends , wife and daughters all their faces , the play of their faces , I know . 
But the face of this girl it is much more real to me . 
I can bring it back into memory so that I see it again I could draw it or paint it . 
And after all He stopped but I said nothing . 
The face of a dream the face of a dream . 
And she moved gracefully , she seemed to have part with all pleasant and gracious things He stopped , and his face was downcast and hidden . 
Then he looked up at me and went on , making no further attempt to disguise his absolute belief in the reality of his story . 
You see , I had thrown up my plans and ambitions , thrown up all I had ever worked for or desired for her sake . 
I had been a master man away there in the north , with influence and property and a great reputation , but none of it had seemed worth having beside her . 
It was dust and ashes . 
It's emotion , it's a tint , a light that comes and goes . 
Only while it's there , everything changes , everything . 
The thing is I came away and left them in their Crisis to do what they could . 
Left whom ? I asked , puzzled . 
The people up in the north there . 
You see in this dream , anyhow I had been a big man , the sort of man men come to trust in , to group themselves about . 
Millions of men who had never seen me were ready to do things and risk things because of their confidence in me . 
I had been playing that game for years , that big laborious game , that vague , monstrous political game amidst intrigues and betrayals , speech and agitation . 
But I can't expect you to understand the shades and complications of the year the year something or other ahead . 
I had it all down to the smallest details in my dream . 
I suppose I had been dreaming of it before I awoke , and the fading outline of some queer new development I had imagined still hung about me as I rubbed my eyes . 
It was some grubby affair that made me thank God for the sunlight . 
'You are worth it , I said , speaking without intending her to hear 'you are worth it , my dearest one worth pride and praise and all things . 
Love ! to have you is worth them all together . 
And at the murmur of my voice she turned about . 
'Come and see , she cried I can hear her now 'come and see the sunrise upon Monte Solaro . 
I remember how I sprang to my feet and joined her at the balcony . 
She put a white hand upon my shoulder and pointed towards great masses of limestone , flushing , as it were , into life . 
But first I noted the sunlight on her face caressing the lines of her cheeks and neck . 
How can I describe to you the scene we had before us ? We were at Capri I have been there , I said . 
I have clambered up Monte Solaro and drunk vero Capri muddy stuff like cider at the summit . 
Ah ! said the man with the white face then perhaps you can tell me you will know if this is indeed Capri . 
For in this life I have never been there . 
They called it a pleasure city . 
Of course , there was none of that in your time rather , I should say , is none of that now . 
Well , this room of ours was at the extremity of the cape , so that one could see east and west . 
And when one turned to the west , distinct and near was a little bay , a little beach still in shadow . 
And out of that shadow rose Solaro straight and tall , flushed and golden crested , like a beauty throned , and the white moon was floating behind her in the sky . 
And before us from east to west stretched the many tinted sea all dotted with little sailing boats . 
And just below us was a rock with an arch worn through it . 
The blue sea water broke to green and foam all round the rock , and a galley came gliding out of the arch . 
I was nearly drowned there . 
It is called the Faraglioni . 
I Faraglioni ? Yes , she called it that , answered the man with the white face . 
There was some story but that He put his hand to his forehead again . 
No , he said , I forget that story . 
And so they went softly . 
A pleasant and joyful place it was , with its sunlight and splashing , and the murmur of plucked strings . 
And we sat and ate and smiled at one another , and I would not heed a man who was watching me from a table near by . 
And afterwards we went on to the dancing hall . 
But I cannot describe that hall . 
The place was enormous larger than any building you have ever seen and in one place there was the old gate of Capri , caught into the wall of a gallery high overhead . 
Light girders , stems and threads of gold , burst from the pillars like fountains , streamed like an Aurora across the roof and interlaced , like like conjuring tricks . 
All about the great circle for the dancers there were beautiful figures , strange dragons , and intricate and wonderful grotesques bearing lights . 
The place was inundated with artificial light that shamed the newborn day . 
And they looked also at the lady beside me , though half the story of how at last she had come to me was unknown or mistold . 
And few of the men who were there , I know , but judged me a happy man , in spite of all the shame and dishonour that had come upon my name . 
The air was full of music , full of harmonious scents , full of the rhythm of beautiful motions . 
We two danced , not the dreary monotonies of your days of this time , I mean but dances that were beautiful , intoxicating . 
And even now I can see my lady dancing dancing joyously . 
She danced , you know , with a serious face she danced with a serious dignity , and yet she was smiling at me and caressing me smiling and caressing with her eyes . 
The music was different , he murmured . 
It went I cannot describe it but it was infinitely richer and more varied than any music that has ever come to me awake . 
And then it was when we had done dancing a man came to speak to me . 
And he asked that he might speak to me for a little time apart . 
'I have no secrets from this lady . 
What do you want to tell me ? He said it was a trivial matter , or at least a dry matter , for a lady to hear . 
'Perhaps for me to hear , said I. He glanced at her , as though almost he would appeal to her . 
He was a forcible , hard , and tactless man , and only I had been able to control and soften him . 
It was on his account even more than my own , I think , that the others had been so dismayed at my retreat . 
So this question about what he had done reawakened my old interest in the life I had put aside just for a moment . 
'I have taken no heed of any news for many days , I said . 
And this messenger they had sent to me not only told me of Evesham's speech , but went on to ask counsel and to point out what need they had of me . 
While he talked , my lady sat a little forward and watched his face and mine . 
My old habits of scheming and organising reasserted themselves . 
I could even see myself suddenly returning to the north , and all the dramatic effect of it . 
All that this man said witnessed to the disorder of the party indeed , but not to its damage . 
I should go back stronger than I had come . 
And then I thought of my lady . 
You see how can I tell you ? There were certain peculiarities of our relationship as things are I need not tell you about that which would render her presence with me impossible . 
I should have had to leave her indeed , I should have had to renounce her clearly and openly , if I was to do all that I could do in the north . 
At the touch of that thought my dream of a return was shattered . 
I turned on the man suddenly , as he was imagining his eloquence was gaining ground with me . 
'What have I to do with these things now ? I said . 
'I have done with them . 
Do you think I am coquetting with your people in coming here ? 'No , he said . 
'But 'Why cannot you leave me alone . 
I have done with these things . 
I have ceased to be anything but a private man . 
'But have you thought ? this talk of war , these reckless challenges , these wild aggressions I stood up . 
I took count of all those things , I weighed them and I have come away . 
He seemed to consider the possibility of persistence . 
He looked from me to where the lady sat regarding us . 
'War , he said , as if he were speaking to himself , and then turned slowly from me and walked away . 
I stood , caught in the whirl of thoughts his appeal had set going . 
I heard my lady's voice . 
'Dear , she said 'but if they had need of you She did not finish her sentence , she let it rest there . 
I turned to her sweet face , and the balance of my mood swayed and reeled . 
'They want me only to do the thing they dare not do themselves , I said . 
'If they distrust Evesham they must settle with him themselves . 
She looked at me doubtfully . 
Now , I was an older mind than hers , and I could sway her to this belief or that . 
'My dear one , I said , 'you must not trouble over these things . 
There will be no war . 
Certainly there will be no war . 
The age of wars is past . 
Trust me to know the justice of this case . 
They have no right upon me , dearest , and no one has a right upon me . 
I have been free to choose my life , and I have chosen this . 
'But war , she said . 
I sat down beside her . 
I put an arm behind her and took her hand in mine . 
I set myself to drive that doubt away I set myself to fill her mind with pleasant things again . 
I lied to her , and in lying to her I lied also to myself . 
And she was only too ready to believe me , only too ready to forget . 
Very soon the shadow had gone again , and we were hastening to our bathing place in the Grotta del Bovo Marino , where it was our custom to bathe every day . 
We swam and splashed one another , and in that buoyant water I seemed to become something lighter and stronger than a man . 
And at last we came out dripping and rejoicing and raced among the rocks . 
Only for a time I could not believe that all these vivid moments had been no more than the substance of a dream . 
In truth , I could not believe it a dream for all the sobering reality of things about me . 
I am a solicitor , you know , with a point of view . 
Have you ever heard of a dream that had a quality like that ? Like ? So that afterwards you remembered little details you had forgotten . 
I had never noticed the point before , but he was right . 
That is what you never seem to do with dreams . 
But that is just what I did . 
I was chiefly busy that day negotiating a ninety nine year building lease . 
It was a private builder in a hurry , and we wanted to tie him in every possible way . 
I had an interview with him , and he showed a certain want of temper that sent me to bed still irritated . 
That night I had no dream . 
Nor did I dream the next night , at least , to remember . 
Something of that intense reality of conviction vanished . 
I began to feel sure it was a dream . 
And then it came again . 
When the dream came again , nearly four days later , it was very different . 
I think it certain that four days had also elapsed in the dream . 
Many things had happened in the north , and the shadow of them was back again between us , and this time it was not so easily dispelled . 
I began I know with moody musings . 
I found myself awake and walking . 
We had come out above the Pleasure City , we were near the summit of Monte Solaro and looking towards the bay . 
It was the late afternoon and very clear . 
I interrupted suddenly You have been to Capri , of course ? Only in this dream , he said , only in this dream . 
All across the bay beyond Sorrento were the floating palaces of the Pleasure City moored and chained . 
And northward were the broad floating stages that received the aeroplanes . 
Aeroplanes fell out of the sky every afternoon , each bringing its thousands of pleasure seekers from the uttermost parts of the earth to Capri and its delights . 
All these things , I say , stretched below . 
But we noticed them only incidentally because of an unusual sight that evening had to show . 
Five war aeroplanes that had long slumbered useless in the distant arsenals of the Rhinemouth were manoeuvring now in the eastward sky . 
Evesham had astonished the world by producing them and others , and sending them to circle here and there . 
It was the threat material in the great game of bluff he was playing , and it had taken even me by surprise . 
He was one of those incredibly stupid energetic people who seem sent by heaven to create disasters . 
I remember how we stood upon the headland watching the squadron circling far away , and how I weighed the full meaning of the sight , seeing clearly the way things must go . 
And then even it was not too late . 
I might have gone back , I think , and saved the world . 
The people of the north would follow me , I knew , granted only that in one thing I respected their moral standards . 
The east and south would trust me as they would trust no other northern man . 
And I knew I had only to put it to her and she would have let me go . 
Not because she did not love me ! Only I did not want to go my will was all the other way about . 
My will was to live , to gather pleasures and make my dear lady happy . 
Her face was gray because the sunset was fading out of the sky . 
It was no fault of hers that she held me . 
She had asked me to go from her , and again in the night time and with tears she had asked me to go . 
At last it was the sense of her that roused me from my mood . 
I turned upon her suddenly and challenged her to race down the mountain slopes . 
We ran down past a couple of men , who turned back staring in astonishment at my behaviour they must have recognised my face . 
The man seemed hesitating on the verge of a description . 
What were they like ? I asked . 
They had never fought , he said . 
They were just like our ironclads are nowadays they had never fought . 
No one knew what they might do , with excited men inside them few even cared to speculate . 
They were great driving things shaped like spear heads without a shaft , with a propeller in the place of the shaft . 
Aluminum ? No , no , nothing of that sort . 
An alloy that was very common as common as brass , for example . 
It was called let me see He squeezed his forehead with the fingers of one hand . 
I am forgetting everything , he said . 
And they carried guns ? Little guns , firing high explosive shells . 
They fired the guns backwards , out of the base of the leaf , so to speak , and rammed with the beak . 
That was the theory , you know , but they had never been fought . 
No one could tell exactly what was going to happen . 
And meanwhile I suppose it was very fine to go whirling through the air like a flight of young swallows , swift and easy . 
I guess the captains tried not to think too clearly what the real thing would be like . 
And these flying war machines , you know , were only one sort of the endless war contrivances that had been invented and had fallen into abeyance during the long peace . 
And even then , though I knew it was drawing near the limit of my opportunity , I could find no will to go back . 
That was my last chance . 
'My dearest , she said , and her sweet face looked up to me , 'this is Death . 
This life you lead is Death . 
Then suddenly she fell mute , and , glancing down at her face , I read in an instant the thing she had thought to do . 
It was one of those moments when one sees . 
'No ? she asked , in surprise and I think a little fearful at the answer to her thought . 
'Nothing , I said , 'shall send me back . 
Nothing ! I have chosen . 
Love , I have chosen , and the world must go . 
Whatever happens I will live this life I will live for you ! It nothing shall turn me aside nothing , my dear one . 
Even if you died even if you died 'Yes ? she murmured , softly . 
'Then I also would die . 
I bent all my mind to throw that glamour upon it , seeking not only to convert her but myself to that . 
We talked , and she clung to me , torn too between all that she deemed noble and all that she knew was sweet . 
And so my moment passed . 
It was my last chance . 
And , all over Asia , and the ocean , and the South , the air and the wires were throbbing with their warnings to prepare prepare . 
No one living , you know , knew what war was no one could imagine , with all these new inventions , what horror war might bring . 
I glanced at him , and his face was intent on the floor of the carriage . 
After that , he said , I dreamt often . 
For three weeks of nights that dream was my life . 
I could tell you all , tell you every little thing in the dream , but as to what I did in the daytime no . 
I could not tell I do not remember . 
My memory my memory has gone . 
The business of life slips from me He leant forward , and pressed his hands upon his eyes . 
For a long time he said nothing . 
And then ? said I. The war burst like a hurricane . 
He stared before him at unspeakable things . 
And then ? I urged again . 
One touch of unreality , he said , in the low tone of a man who speaks to himself , and they would have been nightmares . 
But they were not nightmares they were not nightmares . 
No ! He was silent for so long that it dawned upon me that there was a danger of losing the rest of the story . 
But he went on talking again in the same tone of questioning self communion . 
The whole island was awhirl with rumours it was said , again and again , that fighting had begun . 
I had not expected this . 
I had seen so little of the life of pleasure that I had failed to reckon with this violence of the amateurs . 
And as for me , I was out of it . 
I was like the man who might have prevented the firing of a magazine . 
So furious was I , I could have quarrelled with her if I could have found one shade of accusation in her eyes . 
All my magnificence had gone from me . 
I walked up and down our rock cell , and outside was the darkling sea and a light to the southward that flared and passed and came again . 
'We must get out of this place , I said over and over . 
'I have made my choice , and I will have no hand in these troubles . 
I will have nothing of this war . 
We have taken our lives out of all these things . 
This is no refuge for us . 
And the next day we were already in flight from the war that covered the world . 
And all the rest was Flight all the rest was Flight . 
How much was there of it ? He made no answer . 
How many days ? His face was white and drawn and his hands were clenched . 
He took no heed of my curiosity . 
I tried to draw him back to his story with questions . 
Where did you go ? I said . 
When ? When you left Capri . 
South west , he said , and glanced at me for a second . 
We went in a boat . 
But I should have thought an aeroplane ? They had been seized . 
I questioned him no more . 
Presently I thought he was beginning again . 
I had silenced all the voices , I had answered all the questions I had come to her . 
And suddenly there was nothing but War and Death ! I had an inspiration . 
After all , I said , it could have been only a dream . 
A dream ! he cried , flaming upon me , a dream when , even now For the first time he became animated . 
A faint flush crept into his cheek . 
He raised his open hand and clenched it , and dropped it to his knee . 
He spoke , looking away from me , and for all the rest of the time he looked away . 
It is the centre of my life , and all other things about it are subordinate or altogether vain . 
I loved her , that woman of a dream . 
All through the night and morning that we sailed across the sea from Capri to Salerno , we talked of escape . 
We were uplifted , as though our quest was a holy thing , as though love for another was a mission . 
In a little while a multitude had come out , the remoter just little specks of ultramarine in the shadow of the eastward cliff . 
'It is love and reason , I said , 'fleeing from all this madness of war . 
And though we presently saw a squadron of aeroplanes flying across the southern sky we did not heed it . 
Now they were all thin little strokes of blue , and now one and now a multitude would heel and catch the sun and become short flashes of light . 
The southward wind flung itself in an arrow headed cloud athwart the sun . 
And then suddenly they swept round to the eastward and streamed eastward , growing smaller and smaller and clearer and clearer again until they vanished from the sky . 
And after that we noted to the northward and very high Evesham's fighting machines hanging high over Naples like an evening swarm of gnats . 
It seemed to have no more to do with us than a flight of birds . 
Even the mutter of guns far away in the south east seemed to us to signify nothing . 
Each day , each dream after that , we were still exalted , still seeking that refuge where we might live and love . 
Fatigue had come upon us , pain and many distresses . 
Oh , but she was brave and patient ! She who had never faced hardship and exposure had courage for herself and me . 
We went to and fro seeking an outlet , over a country all commandeered and ransacked by the gathering hosts of war . 
Always we went on foot . 
At first there were other fugitives , but we did not mingle with them . 
Some escaped northward , some were caught in the torrent of peasantry that swept along the main roads many gave themselves into the hands of the soldiery and were sent northward . 
Many of the men were impressed . 
But we kept away from these things we had brought no money to bribe a passage north , and I feared for my lady at the hands of these conscript crowds . 
I had some vague idea that by Paestum it might be possible to find a boat or something , and take once more to sea . 
And there it was the battle overtook us . 
A sort of soul blindness had me . 
Plainly I could see that we were being hemmed in that the great net of that giant Warfare had us in its toils . 
Once we fancied they had fired at us , taking us for spies at any rate a shot had gone shuddering over us . 
Several times we had hidden in woods from hovering aeroplanes . 
But all these things do not matter now , these nights of flight and pain . 
I knew that we were between the two armies , and that they drew together . 
I knew we were in danger , and that we could not stop there and rest ! Though all these things were in my mind , they were in the background . 
They seemed to be affairs beyond our concern . 
Chiefly , I was thinking of my lady . 
An aching distress filled me . 
For the first time she had owned herself beaten and had fallen a weeping . 
It was well , I thought , that she would weep and rest and then we would toil on again , for I had no inkling of the thing that hung so near . 
Even now I can see her as she sat there , her lovely hair upon her shoulder , can mark again the deepening hollow of her cheek . 
'If we had parted , she said , 'if I had let you go . 
'No , said I. Even now , I do not repent . 
I will not repent I made my choice , and I will hold on to the end . 
And then Overhead in the sky flashed something and burst , and all about us I heard the bullets making a noise like a handful of peas suddenly thrown . 
They chipped the stones about us , and whirled fragments from the bricks and passed . 
He put his hand to his mouth , and then moistened his lips . 
At the flash I had turned about . 
You know she stood up She stood up , you know , and moved a step towards me as though she wanted to reach me And she had been shot through the heart . 
He stopped and stared at me . 
I felt all that foolish incapacity an Englishman feels on such occasions . 
I met his eyes for a moment , and then stared out of the window . 
For a long space we kept silence . 
When at last I looked at him he was sitting back in his corner , his arms folded , and his teeth gnawing at his knuckles . 
He bit his nail suddenly , and stared at it . 
I carried her , he said , towards the temples , in my arms as though it mattered . 
They seemed a sort of sanctuary , you know , they had lasted so long , I suppose . 
She must have died almost instantly . 
Only I talked to her all the way . 
I have seen those temples , I said abruptly , and indeed he had brought those still , sunlit arcades of worn sandstone very vividly before me . 
It was the brown one , the big brown one . 
I sat down on a fallen pillar and held her in my arms . 
Silent after the first babble was over . 
And after a little while the lizards came out and ran about again , as though nothing unusual was going on , as though nothing had changed . 
I seem to remember that the aeroplanes came up out of the south , and that the battle went away to the west . 
One aeroplane was struck , and overset and fell . 
I remember that though it didn't interest me in the least . 
It didn't seem to signify . 
It was like a wounded gull , you know flapping for a time in the water . 
I could see it down the aisle of the temple a black thing in the bright blue water . 
Three or four times shells burst about the beach , and then that ceased . 
Each time that happened all the lizards scuttled in and hid for a space . 
That was all the mischief done , except that once a stray bullet gashed the stone hard by made just a fresh bright surface . 
As the shadows grew longer , the stillness seemed greater . 
The curious thing , he remarked , with the manner of a man who makes a trivial conversation , is that I didn't THINK at all . 
I sat with her in my arms amidst the stones in a sort of lethargy stagnant . 
And I don't remember waking up . 
I don't remember dressing that day . 
I read my letters like a machine . 
I have forgotten what they were about . 
He stopped , and there was a long silence . 
Suddenly I perceived that we were running down the incline from Chalk Farm to Euston . 
I started at this passing of time . 
I turned on him with a brutal question , with the tone of Now or never . 
And did you dream again ? Yes . 
He seemed to force himself to finish . 
His voice was very low . 
Once more , and as it were only for a few instants . 
I seemed to have suddenly awakened out of a great apathy , to have risen into a sitting position , and the body lay there on the stones beside me . 
Not her , you know . 
So soon it was not her . 
I may have heard voices . 
Only I knew clearly that men were coming into the solitude and that that was a last outrage . 
They were little bright figures in the sunlight , and there they hung , weapon in hand , peering cautiously before them . 
And further away I saw others and then more at another point in the wall . 
It was a long lax line of men in open order . 
Presently the man I had first seen stood up and shouted a command , and his men came tumbling down the wall and into the high weeds towards the temple . 
He scrambled down with them and led them . 
He came facing towards me , and when he saw me he stopped . 
At first I had watched these men with a mere curiosity , but when I had seen they meant to come to the temple I was moved to forbid them . 
I shouted to the officer . 
'You must not come here , I cried , I am here . 
I am here with my dead . 
He stared , and then shouted a question back to me in some unknown tongue . 
I repeated what I had said . 
He shouted again , and I folded my arms and stood still . 
Presently he spoke to his men and came forward . 
He carried a drawn sword . 
I signed to him to keep away , but he continued to advance . 
I told him again very patiently and clearly 'You must not come here . 
These are old temples and I am here with my dead . 
Presently he was so close I could see his face clearly . 
It was a narrow face , with dull gray eyes , and a black moustache . 
He had a scar on his upper lip , and he was dirty and unshaven . 
He kept shouting unintelligible things , questions , perhaps , at me . 
I know now that he was afraid of me , but at the time that did not occur to me . 
As I tried to explain to him , he interrupted me in imperious tones , bidding me , I suppose , stand aside . 
He made to go past me , and I caught hold of him . 
I saw his face change at my grip . 
'You fool , I cried . 
'Don't you know ? She is dead ! He started back . 
He looked at me with cruel eyes . 
I saw a sort of exultant resolve leap into them delight . 
Then , suddenly , with a scowl , he swept his sword back SO and thrust . 
I became aware of a change in the rhythm of the train . 
The brakes lifted their voices and the carriage jarred and jerked . 
This present world insisted upon itself , became clamourous . 
I looked again at his drawn features . 
He ran me through the heart . 
It was with a sort of astonishment no fear , no pain but just amazement , that I felt it pierce me , felt the sword drive home into my body . 
It didn't hurt , you know . 
It didn't hurt at all . 
The yellow platform lights came into the field of view , passing first rapidly , then slowly , and at last stopping with a jerk . 
Dim shapes of men passed to and fro without . 
Euston ! cried a voice . 
Do you mean ? There was no pain , no sting or smart . 
Amazement and then darkness sweeping over everything . 
The hot , brutal face before me , the face of the man who had killed me , seemed to recede . 
It swept out of existence Euston ! clamoured the voices outside Euston ! The carriage door opened admitting a flood of sound , and a porter stood regarding us . 
The sounds of doors slamming , and the hoof clatter of cab horses , and behind these things the featureless remote roar of the London cobble stones , came to my ears . 
A truckload of lighted lamps blazed along the platform . 
A darkness , a flood of darkness that opened and spread and blotted out all things . 
Any luggage , sir ? said the porter . 
And that was the end ? I asked . 
Then , almost inaudibly , he answered , NO . 
You mean ? I couldn't get to her . 
She was there on the other side of the temple And then Yes , I insisted . 
Yes ? Nightmares , he cried nightmares indeed ! My God ! Great birds that fought and tore . 
THE CONE The night was hot and overcast , the sky red , rimmed with the lingering sunset of mid summer . 
They sat at the open window , trying to fancy the air was fresher there . 
The trees and shrubs of the garden stood stiff and dark beyond in the roadway a gas lamp burnt , bright orange against the hazy blue of the evening . 
Farther were the three lights of the railway signal against the lowering sky . 
The man and woman spoke to one another in low tones . 
He does not suspect ? said the man , a little nervously . 
Not he , she said peevishly , as though that too irritated her . 
He thinks of nothing but the works and the prices of fuel . 
He has no imagination , no poetry . 
None of these men of iron have , he said sententiously . 
HE has not , she said . 
She turned her discontented face towards the window . 
The distant sound of a roaring and rushing drew nearer and grew in volume the house quivered one heard the metallic rattle of the tender . 
This country was all fresh and beautiful once , he said and now it is Gehenna . 
Down that way nothing but pot banks and chimneys belching fire and dust into the face of heaven . 
But what does it matter ? An end comes , an end to all this cruelty . 
He spoke the last word in a whisper . 
TO MORROW , she said , speaking in a whisper too , and still staring out of the window . 
Dear ! he said , putting his hand on hers . 
She turned with a start , and their eyes searched one another's . 
Hers softened to his gaze . 
My dear one ! she said , and then It seems so strange that you should have come into my life like this to open She paused . 
To open ? he said . 
All this wonderful world she hesitated , and spoke still more softly this world of LOVE to me . 
Then suddenly the door clicked and closed . 
They turned their heads , and he started violently back . 
In the shadow of the room stood a great shadowy figure silent . 
They saw the face dimly in the half light , with unexpressive dark patches under the penthouse brows . 
Every muscle in Raut's body suddenly became tense . 
When could the door have opened ? What had he heard ? Had he heard all ? What had he seen ? A tumult of questions . 
The new comer's voice came at last , after a pause that seemed interminable . 
I was afraid I had missed you , Horrocks , said the man at the window , gripping the window ledge with his hand . 
The clumsy figure of Horrocks came forward out of the shadow . 
He made no answer to Raut's remark . 
For a moment he stood above them . 
The woman's heart was cold within her . 
I told Mr. Raut it was just possible you might come back , she said , in a voice that never quivered . 
Horrocks , still silent , sat down abruptly in the chair by her little work table . 
His big hands were clenched one saw now the fire of his eyes under the shadow of his brows . 
He was trying to get his breath . 
His eyes went from the woman he had trusted to the friend he had trusted , and then back to the woman . 
By this time and for the moment all three half understood one another . 
Yet none dared say a word to ease the pent up things that choked them . 
It was the husband's voice that broke the silence at last . 
You wanted to see me ? he said to Raut . 
Raut started as he spoke . 
I came to see you , he said , resolved to lie to the last . 
You promised , said Raut , to show me some fine effects of moonlight and smoke . 
I promised to show you some fine effects of moonlight and smoke , repeated Horrocks in a colourless voice . 
And I thought I might catch you to night before you went down to the works , proceeded Raut , and come with you . 
Horrocks glanced at the profile of the woman , shadowy pallid in the half light . 
Then he glanced at Raut , and seemed to recover himself suddenly . 
Of course , he said , I promised to show you the works under their proper dramatic conditions . 
It's odd how I could have forgotten . 
If I am troubling you began Raut . 
A new light had suddenly come into the sultry gloom of his eyes . 
Not in the least , he said . 
That dreadful theory of yours that machinery is beautiful , and everything else in the world ugly . 
I thought he would not spare you , Mr. Raut . 
It's his great theory , his one discovery in art . 
I am slow to make discoveries , said Horrocks grimly , damping her suddenly . 
Nothing and suddenly he rose to his feet . 
I promised to show you the works , he said to Raut , and put his big , clumsy hand on his friend's shoulder . 
And you are ready to go ? Quite , said Raut , and stood up also . 
Each of them peered through the indistinctness of the dusk at the other two . 
Horrocks' hand still rested on Raut's shoulder . 
Raut half fancied still that the incident was trivial after all . 
But Mrs. Horrocks knew her husband better , knew that grim quiet in his voice , and the confusion in her mind took a vague shape of physical evil . 
Very well , said Horrocks , and , dropping his hand , turned towards the door . 
My hat ? Raut looked round in the half light . 
That's my work basket , said Mrs. Horrocks , with a gust of hysterical laughter . 
Their hands came together on the back of the chair . 
Here it is ! he said . 
She had an impulse to warn him in an undertone , but she could not frame a word . 
Don't go ! and Beware of him ! struggled in her mind , and the swift moment passed . 
Got it ? said Horrocks , standing with the door half open . 
Better say good bye to Mrs. Horrocks , said the ironmaster , even more grimly quiet in his tone than before . 
Good evening , Mrs. Horrocks , he said , and their hands touched . 
Horrocks held the door open with a ceremonial politeness unusual in him towards men . 
Raut went out , and then , after a wordless look at her , her husband followed . 
She stood motionless while Raut's light footfall and her husband's heavy tread , like bass and treble , passed down the passage together . 
The front door slammed heavily . 
She went to the window , moving slowly , and stood watching leaning forward . 
The two men appeared for a moment at the gateway in the road , passed under the street lamp , and were hidden by the black masses of the shrubbery . 
The lamp light fell for a moment on their faces , showing only unmeaning pale patches , telling nothing of what she still feared , and doubted , and craved vainly to know . 
Then she sank down into a crouching attitude in the big arm chair , her eyes wide open and staring out at the red lights from the furnaces that flickered in the sky . 
An hour after she was still there , her attitude scarcely changed . 
The oppressive stillness of the evening weighed heavily upon Raut . 
They went side by side down the road in silence , and in silence turned into the cinder made by way that presently opened out the prospect of the valley . 
A blue haze , half dust , half mist , touched the long valley with mystery . 
Out of the masses , clear and slender against the evening sky , rose a multitude of tall chimneys , many of them reeking , a few smokeless during a season of play . 
Certainly you get some fine effects of colour with your furnaces , said Raut , breaking a silence that had become apprehensive . 
He stood with his hands in his pockets , frowning down at the dim steaming railway and the busy ironworks beyond , frowning as if he were thinking out some knotty problem . 
Raut glanced at him and away again . 
At present your moonlight effect is hardly ripe , he continued , looking upward . 
The moon is still smothered by the vestiges of daylight . 
Horrocks stared at him with the expression of a man who has suddenly awakened . 
Of course , of course . 
He too looked up at the moon , pale still in the midsummer sky . 
Come along , he said suddenly , and , gripping Raut's arm in his hand , made a move towards the path that dropped from them to the railway . 
Their eyes met and saw a thousand things in a moment that their eyes came near to say . 
Horrocks' hand tightened and then relaxed . 
He let go , and before Raut was aware of it , they were arm in arm , and walking , one unwillingly enough , down the path . 
You see the fine effect of the railway signals towards Burslem , said Horrocks , suddenly breaking into loquacity , striding fast , and tightening the grip of his elbow the while . 
Little green lights and red and white lights , all against the haze . 
You have an eye for effect , Raut . 
And look at those furnaces of mine , how they rise upon us as we come down the hill . 
That to the right is my pet seventy feet of him . 
I packed him myself , and he's boiled away cheerfully with iron in his guts for five long years . 
I've a particular fancy for HIM . 
Come along ! Clang , clatter , how it goes rattling across the floor ! Sheet tin , Raut , amazing stuff . 
Glass mirrors are not in it when that stuff comes from the mill . 
And , squelch ! there goes the hammer again . 
Come along ! He had to stop talking to catch at his breath . 
His arm twisted into Raut's with benumbing tightness . 
He had come striding down the black path towards the railway as though he was possessed . 
Raut had not spoken a word , had simply hung back against Horrocks' pull with all his strength . 
Nipping your arm off ? he said . 
But it's you taught me the trick of walking in that friendly way . 
You haven't learnt the refinements of it yet then , said Raut , laughing artificially again . 
By Jove ! I'm black and blue . 
They stood now near the bottom of the hill , close to the fence that bordered the railway . 
The ironworks had grown larger and spread out with their approach . 
They looked up to the blast furnaces now instead of down the further view of Etruria and Hanley had dropped out of sight with their descent . 
Before them , by the stile rose a notice board , bearing still dimly visible , the words , BEWARE OF THE TRAINS , half hidden by splashes of coaly mud . 
Fine effects , said Horrocks , waving his arm . 
The puffs of smoke , the orange glare , the round eye of light in front of it , the melodious rattle . 
Fine effects ! But these furnaces of mine used to be finer , before we shoved cones in their throats , and saved the gas . 
Cones ? Cones , my man , cones . 
I'll show you one nearer . 
The flames used to flare out of the open throats , great what is it ? pillars of cloud by day , red and black smoke , and pillars of fire by night . 
Now we run it off in pipes , and burn it to heat the blast , and the top is shut by a cone . 
You'll be interested in that cone . 
But every now and then , said Raut , you get a burst of fire and smoke up there . 
The cone's not fixed , it's hung by a chain from a lever , and balanced by an equipoise . 
You shall see it nearer . 
Else , of course , there'd be no way of getting fuel into the thing . 
Every now and then the cone dips , and out comes the flare . 
I see , said Raut . 
He looked over his shoulder . 
The moon gets brighter , he said . 
Come along , said Horrocks abruptly , gripping his shoulder again , and moving him suddenly towards the railway crossing . 
And then came one of those swift incidents , vivid , but so rapid that they leave one doubtful and reeling . 
Halfway across , Horrocks' hand suddenly clenched upon him like a vice , and swung him backward and through a half turn , so that he looked up the line . 
As he grasped what this meant , he turned his face to Horrocks , and pushed with all his strength against the arm that held him back between the rails . 
The struggle did not last a moment . 
Just as certain as it was that Horrocks held him there , so certain was it that he had been violently lugged out of danger . 
Out of the way , said Horrocks , with a gasp , as the train came rattling by , and they stood panting by the gate into the ironworks . 
I did not see it coming , said Raut , still , even in spite of his own apprehensions , trying to keep up an appearance of ordinary intercourse . 
Horrocks answered with a grunt . 
The cone , he said , and then , as one who recovers himself , I thought you did not hear . 
I didn't , said Raut . 
I wouldn't have had you run over then for the world , said Horrocks . 
For a moment I lost my nerve , said Raut . 
Horrocks stood for half a minute , then turned abruptly towards the ironworks again . 
See the palpitating red stuff go sliding down the slope . 
As we get nearer , the heap rises up and cuts the blast furnaces . 
See the quiver up above the big one . 
Not that way ! This way , between the heaps . 
That goes to the puddling furnaces , but I want to show you the canal first . 
He came and took Raut by the elbow , and so they went along side by side . 
After all , Horrocks might have heard nothing . 
At any rate , he had pulled him out of the way in time . 
His odd manner might be due to the mere vague jealousy he had shown once before . 
He was talking now of the ash heaps and the canal . 
Rather ! The haze in the moonlight . 
Fine ! Our canal , said Horrocks , stopping suddenly . 
Our canal by moonlight and firelight is an immense effect . 
You've never seen it ? Fancy that ! You've spent too many of your evenings philandering up in Newcastle there . 
I tell you , for real florid effects But you shall see . 
Three shadowy workmen went by and touched their caps to Horrocks . 
Their faces were vague in the darkness . 
Raut felt a futile impulse to address them , and before he could frame his words , they passed into the shadows . 
Horrocks pointed to the canal close before them now a weird looking place it seemed , in the blood red reflections of the furnaces . 
The shining black tower of the larger blast furnace rose overhead out of the mist , and its tumultuous riot filled their ears . 
Raut kept away from the edge of the water , and watched Horrocks . 
Raut turned his head for a moment , and then came back hastily to his watch on Horrocks . 
Come along to the rolling mills , said Horrocks . 
The threatening hold was not so evident that time , and Raut felt a little reassured . 
It left one eye blinded for a while . 
And out upon the narrow rail that overhung the furnace , Raut's doubts came upon him again . 
Was it wise to be here ? If Horrocks did know everything ! Do what he would , he could not resist a violent trembling . 
Right under foot was a sheer depth of seventy feet . 
It was a dangerous place . 
They pushed by a truck of fuel to get to the railing that crowned the place . 
The reek of the furnace , a sulphurous vapor streaked with pungent bitterness , seemed to make the distant hillside of Hanley quiver . 
The moon was riding out now from among a drift of clouds , halfway up the sky above the undulating wooded outlines of Newcastle . 
The steaming canal ran away from below them under an indistinct bridge , and vanished into the dim haze of the flat fields towards Burslem . 
Raut gripped the hand rail tightly , and stared down at the cone . 
The boiling of the iron and the tumult of the blast made a thunderous accompaniment to Horrocks' voice . 
But the thing had to be gone through now . 
In the middle , bawled Horrocks , temperature near a thousand degrees . 
If YOU were dropped into it . 
flash into flame like a pinch of gunpowder in a candle . 
Put your hand out and feel the heat of his breath . 
Why , even up here I've seen the rain water boiling off the trucks . 
It's a damned sight too hot for roasting cakes . 
The top side of it's three hundred degrees . 
Three hundred degrees ! said Raut . 
Three hundred centigrade , mind ! said Horrocks . 
It will boil the blood out of you in no time . 
Eigh ? said Raut , and turned . 
Boil the blood out of you in . 
No , you don't ! Let me go ! screamed Raut . 
Let go my arm ! With one hand he clutched at the hand rail , then with both . 
For a moment the two men stood swaying . 
Then suddenly , with a violent jerk , Horrocks had twisted him from his hold . 
He clutched at Horrocks and missed , his foot went back into empty air in mid air he twisted himself , and then cheek and shoulder and knee struck the hot cone together . 
He clutched the chain by which the cone hung , and the thing sank an infinitesimal amount as he struck it . 
A circle of glowing red appeared about him , and a tongue of flame , released from the chaos within , flickered up towards him . 
An intense pain assailed him at the knees , and he could smell the singeing of his hands . 
He raised himself to his feet , and tried to climb up the chain , and then something struck his head . 
Black and shining with the moonlight , the throat of the furnace rose about him . 
Horrocks , he saw , stood above him by one of the trucks of fuel on the rail . 
Horrocks ! He clung crying to the chain , pulling himself up from the burning of the cone . 
Each missile Horrocks flung hit him . 
His clothes charred and glowed , and as he struggled the cone dropped , and a rush of hot suffocating gas whooped out and burned round him in a swift breath of flame . 
His human likeness departed from him . 
Abruptly , at the sight , the ironmaster's anger passed . 
A deadly sickness came upon him . 
The heavy odour of burning flesh came drifting up to his nostrils . 
His sanity returned to him . 
God have mercy upon me ! he cried . 
An intense realisation of that agony came to his mind , and overcame every other feeling . 
For a moment he stood irresolute , and then , turning to the truck , he hastily tilted its contents upon the struggling thing that had once been a man . 
The mass fell with a thud , and went radiating over the cone . 
With the thud the shriek ended , and a boiling confusion of smoke , dust , and flame came rushing up towards him . 
As it passed , he saw the cone clear again . 
Then he staggered back , and stood trembling , clinging to the rail with both hands . 
His lips moved , but no words came to them . 
Down below was the sound of voices and running steps . 
The clangour of rolling in the shed ceased abruptly . 
A MOONLIGHT FABLE There was once a little man whose mother made him a beautiful suit of clothes . 
It was green and gold and woven so that I cannot describe how delicate and fine it was , and there was a tie of orange fluffiness that tied up under his chin . 
And the buttons in their newness shone like stars . 
He wanted to wear it everywhere and show it to all sorts of people . 
It was his wedding suit , she said . 
It was almost as though he gave it up again . 
He polished the poor faded button and polished it , and if anything it grew duller . 
should arrive , one button should chance to be ever so little short of its first glittering freshness , and for days and days that thought remained with him , distressingly . 
He went trimly along on his way to church full of this wild desire . 
And always , after such occasions , he brushed it over and folded it exquisitely as she had taught him , and put it away again . 
It seemed to him the moonlight was not common moonlight , nor the night a common night , and for a while he lay quite drowsily with this odd persuasion in his mind . 
Thought joined on to thought like things that whisper warmly in the shadows . 
Then he sat up in his little bed suddenly , very alert , with his heart beating very fast and a quiver in his body from top to toe . 
He had made up his mind . 
He knew now that he was going to wear his suit as it should be worn . 
He had no doubt in the matter . 
He was afraid , terribly afraid , but glad , glad . 
He got out of his bed and stood a moment by the window looking at the moonshine flooded garden and trembling at the thing he meant to do . 
The air was full of a minute clamor of crickets and murmurings , of the infinitesimal shouting of little living things . 
Not a button had tarnished , not a thread had faded on this dear suit of his he was glad enough for weeping as in a noiseless hurry he put it on . 
He stood before his mother's house , and it was white and nearly as plain as by day , with every window blind but his own shut like an eye that sleeps . 
The trees cast still shadows like intricate black lace upon the wall . 
The garden in the moonlight was very different from the garden by day moonshine was tangled in the hedges and stretched in phantom cobwebs from spray to spray . 
Every flower was gleaming white or crimson black , and the air was aquiver with the thridding of small crickets and nightingales singing unseen in the depths of the trees . 
There was no darkness in the world , but only warm , mysterious shadows and all the leaves and spikes were edged and lined with iridescent jewels of dew . 
The little man did not shout nor sing for all his infinite gladness . 
He did not care , for he knew it was all part of the wearing for which he had longed . 
I am glad I put on my suit , he said I am glad I wore my suit . 
Beyond the hedge he came to the duck pond , or at least to what was the duck pond by day . 
And up he went through the transfigured tangles of the willow herb and the uncut seeding grass of the farther bank . 
And so he came glad and breathless into the highroad . 
I am glad , he said , beyond measure , that I had clothes that fitted this occasion . 
At first he did not heed the moth , and then he waved his hands at it and made a sort of dance with it as it circled round his head . 
Through the arches of Waterloo Bridge a hundred points of light mark the sweep of the Embankment , and above its parapet rise the towers of Westminster , warm grey against the starlight . 
The black river goes by with only a rare ripple breaking its silence , and disturbing the reflections of the lights that swim upon its surface . 
A warm night , said a voice at my side . 
I turned my head , and saw the profile of a man who was leaning over the parapet beside me . 
I felt I was committed to the price of a bed and breakfast if I answered him . 
I looked at him curiously . 
Very warm , said I but not too warm for us here . 
No , he said , still looking across the water , it is pleasant enough here . 
It is good , he continued after a pause , to find anything so restful as this in London . 
He spoke with long pauses between the sentences . 
You must know a little of the irksome labour of the world , or you would not be here . 
But I doubt if you can be so brain weary and footsore as I am . 
Bah ! Sometimes I doubt if the game is worth the candle . 
I feel inclined to throw the whole thing over name , wealth and position and take to some modest trade . 
But I know if I abandoned my ambition hardly as she uses me I should have nothing but remorse left for the rest of my days . 
I looked at him in astonishment . 
If ever I saw a man hopelessly hard up it was the man in front of me . 
He was ragged and he was dirty , unshaven and unkempt he looked as though he had been left in a dust bin for a week . 
And he was talking to ME of the irksome worries of a large business . 
Either he was mad or playing a sorry jest on his own poverty . 
If high aims and high positions , said I , have their drawbacks of hard work and anxiety , they have their compensations . 
Influence , the power of doing good , of assisting those weaker and poorer than ourselves and there is even a certain gratification in display . 
My banter under the circumstances was in very vile taste . 
I spoke on the spur of the contrast of his appearance and speech . 
I was sorry even while I was speaking . 
He turned a haggard but very composed face upon me . 
Said he I forgot myself . 
Of course you would not understand . 
He measured me for a moment . 
No doubt it is very absurd . 
You will not believe me even when I tell you , so that it is fairly safe to tell you . 
And it will be a comfort to tell someone . 
I really have a big business in hand , a very big business . 
But there are troubles just now . 
From this he produced a brown pebble . 
I wonder if you know enough to know what that is ? He handed it to me . 
Now , a year or so ago , I had occupied my leisure in taking a London science degree , so that I have a smattering of physics and mineralogy . 
The thing was not unlike an uncut diamond of the darker sort , though far too large , being almost as big as the top of my thumb . 
I took it , and saw it had the form of a regular octahedron , with the curved faces peculiar to the most precious of minerals . 
I took out my penknife and tried to scratch it vainly . 
Leaning forward towards the gas lamp , I tried the thing on my watch glass , and scored a white line across that with the greatest ease . 
I looked at my interlocutor with rising curiosity . 
It certainly is rather like a diamond . 
But , if so , it is a Behemoth of diamonds . 
Where did you get it ? I tell you I made it , he said . 
Give it back to me . 
He replaced it hastily and buttoned his jacket . 
I will sell it you for one hundred pounds , he suddenly whispered eagerly . 
With that my suspicions returned . 
The thing might , after all , be merely a lump of that almost equally hard substance , corundum , with an accidental resemblance in shape to the diamond . 
Or if it was a diamond , how came he by it , and why should he offer it at a hundred pounds ? We looked into one another's eyes . 
He seemed eager , but honestly eager . 
At that moment I believed it was a diamond he was trying to sell . 
Still , a diamond that size conjured up a vision of many thousands of pounds . 
I put the question of purchase on one side . 
How did you get it ? said I. I made it . 
I had heard something of Moissan , but I knew his artificial diamonds were very small . 
You seem to know something of this kind of thing . 
I will tell you a little about myself . 
Perhaps then you may think better of the purchase . 
He turned round with his back to the river , and put his hands in his pockets . 
I know you will not believe me . 
Consequently the diamonds made by chemists are small and dark , and worthless as jewels . 
Now I , you know , have given up my life to this problem given my life to it . 
I began to work at the conditions of diamond making when I was seventeen , and now I am thirty two . 
Suppose one to have at last just hit the right trick before the secret got out and diamonds became as common as coal , one might realize millions . 
Millions ! He paused and looked for my sympathy . 
A year or two was spent in study , at Berlin chiefly , and then I continued on my own account . 
The trouble was the secrecy . 
So I had to work all alone . 
The money simply flowed away . 
I grudged myself everything except scientific appliances . 
But I got nearer and nearer the thing . 
Rather risky , said I. Yes . 
It burst , and smashed all my windows and a lot of my apparatus but I got a kind of diamond powder nevertheless . 
It was a tremendous strain on my resources , but I got a steel cylinder made for my purpose after his pattern . 
I put in all my stuff and my explosives , built up a fire in my furnace , put the whole concern in , and went out for a walk . 
I could not help laughing at his matter of fact manner . 
Did you not think it would blow up the house ? Were there other people in the place ? It was in the interest of science , he said , ultimately . 
There was a costermonger family on the floor below , a begging letter writer in the room behind mine , and two flower women were upstairs . 
Perhaps it was a bit thoughtless . 
But possibly some of them were out . 
When I came back the thing was just where I left it , among the white hot coals . 
The explosive hadn't burst the case . 
And then I had a problem to face . 
You know time is an important element in crystallisation . 
If you hurry the process the crystals are small it is only by prolonged standing that they grow to any size . 
I resolved to let this apparatus cool for two years , letting the temperature go down slowly during the time . 
I can hardly tell you all the shifts I was put to while I was making the diamonds . 
I have sold newspapers , held horses , opened cab doors . 
For many weeks I addressed envelopes . 
I had a place as assistant to a man who owned a barrow , and used to call down one side of the road while he called down the other . 
Once for a week I had absolutely nothing to do , and I begged . 
At last , three weeks ago , I let the fire out . 
And I found three big diamonds and five small ones . 
As I sat on the floor hammering , my door opened , and my neighbour , the begging letter writer came in . 
He was drunk as he usually is . 
'You're drunk , said I. ''Structive scoundrel , said he . 
'Go to your father , said I , meaning the Father of Lies . 
Then I suddenly realised I was in a hole . 
Either I should have to tell these police my little secret , and get the whole thing blown upon , or be lagged as an Anarchist . 
So I went up to my neighbour and took him by the collar , and rolled him about a bit , and then I gathered up my diamonds and cleared out . 
The evening newspapers called my den the Kentish Town Bomb Factory . 
And now I cannot part with the things for love or money . 
If I go in to respectable jewellers they ask me to wait , and go and whisper to a clerk to fetch a policeman , and then I say I cannot wait . 
And I found out a receiver of stolen goods , and he simply stuck to the one I gave him and told me to prosecute if I wanted it back . 
I am going about now with several hundred thousand pounds worth of diamonds round my neck , and without either food or shelter . 
You are the first person I have taken into my confidence . 
But I like your face and I am hard driven . 
He looked into my eyes . 
It would be madness , said I , for me to buy a diamond under the circumstances . 
Besides , I do not carry hundreds of pounds about in my pocket . 
Yet I more than half believe your story . 
I will , if you like , do this come to my office to morrow . 
You think I am a thief ! said he keenly . 
You will tell the police . 
I am not coming into a trap . 
Somehow I am assured you are no thief . 
You need not come to any appointment . 
He took the card , and an earnest of my good will . 
Think better of it and come , said I. He shook his head doubtfully . 
I will pay back your half crown with interest some day such interest as will amaze you , said he . 
Anyhow , you will keep the secret ? . 
He crossed the road and went into the darkness towards the little steps under the archway leading into Essex Street , and I let him go . 
And that was the last I ever saw of him . 
Afterwards I had two letters from him asking me to send bank notes not cheques to certain addresses . 
I weighed the matter over and took what I conceived to be the wisest course . 
Once he called upon me when I was out . 
My urchin described him as a very thin , dirty , and ragged man , with a dreadful cough . 
That was the finish of him so far as my story goes . 
I wonder sometimes what has become of him . 
He may of course be dead , and his diamonds carelessly thrown aside one , I repeat , was almost as big as my thumb . 
Or he may be still wandering about trying to sell the things . 
I sometimes think I might at least have risked five pounds . 
He was a practical electrician , but fond of whisky , a heavy red haired brute with irregular teeth . 
He doubted the existence of the deity , but accepted Carnot's cycle , and he had read Shakespeare and found him weak in chemistry . 
His helper came out of the mysterious East , and his name was Azuma zi . 
But Holroyd called him Pooh bah . 
Holroyd liked a nigger because he would stand kicking a habit with Holroyd and did not pry into the machinery and try to learn the ways of it . 
Certain odd possibilities of the negro mind brought into abrupt contact with the crown of our civilisation Holroyd never fully realised , though just at the end he got some inkling of them . 
To define Azuma zi was beyond ethnology . 
He was , perhaps , more negroid than anything else , though his hair was curly rather than frizzy , and his nose had a bridge . 
Moreover , his skin was brown rather than black , and the whites of his eyes were yellow . 
He was short of stature and still shorter of English . 
In conversation he made numerous odd noises of no known marketable value , and his infrequent words were carved and wrought into heraldic grotesqueness . 
Holroyd tried to elucidate his religious beliefs , and especially after whisky lectured to him against superstition and missionaries . 
Azuma zi , however , shirked the discussion of his gods , even though he was kicked for it . 
Azuma zi had come , clad in white but insufficient raiment , out of the stokehole of the Lord Clive , from the Straits Settlements , and beyond , into London . 
And to James Holroyd bullying was a labour of love . 
There were three dynamos with their engines at Camberwell . 
The two that had been there since the beginning were small machines the larger one was new . 
One was loose in its foundations and kept the shed vibrating . 
But the big dynamo drowned these little noises altogether with the sustained drone of its iron core , which somehow set part of the ironwork humming . 
This last noise was from an engineering point of view a defect , but Azuma zi accounted it unto the monster for mightiness and pride . 
If it were possible we would have the noises of that shed always about the reader as he reads , we would tell all our story to such an accompaniment . 
The floor never felt steady and quiet beneath one's feet , but quivered and jarred . 
It was a confusing , unsteady place , and enough to send anyone's thoughts jerking into odd zigzags . 
Holroyd delivered a theological lecture on the text of his big machine soon after Azuma zi came . 
He had to shout to be heard in the din . 
Look at that , said Holroyd where's your 'eathen idol to match 'im ? And Azuma zi looked . 
For a moment Holroyd was inaudible , and then Azuma zi heard Kill a hundred men . 
Now and then the brushes would sparkle and spit blue flashes , at which Holroyd would swear , but all the rest was as smooth and rhythmic as breathing . 
The band ran shouting over the shaft , and ever behind one as one watched was the complacent thud of the piston . 
Those two smaller dynamos , Azuma zi by force of contrast despised the large one he privately christened the Lord of the Dynamos . 
They were fretful and irregular , but the big dynamo was steady . 
It affected Azuma zi queerly . 
Azuma zi was not fond of labour . 
He would go and stand close to the colossus and look up at the great leather band running overhead . 
There was a black patch on the band that came round , and it pleased him somehow among all the clatter to watch this return again and again . 
Odd thoughts spun with the whirl of it . 
Scientific people tell us that savages give souls to rocks and trees and a machine is a thousand times more alive than a rock or a tree . 
And Azuma zi was practically a savage still the veneer of civilisation lay no deeper than his slop suit , his bruises , and the coal grime on his face and hands . 
His father before him had worshipped a meteoric stone , kindred blood it may be had splashed the broad wheels of Juggernaut . 
He took every opportunity Holroyd gave him of touching and hand , ling the great dynamo that was fascinating him . 
He polished and cleaned it until the metal parts were blinding in the sun . 
He felt a mysterious sense of service in doing this . 
He would go up to it and touch its spinning coils gently . 
The gods he had worshipped were all far away . 
The people in London hid their gods . 
At last his dim feelings grew more distinct , and took shape in thoughts and at last in acts . 
Then Azuma zi knew that his service was acceptable to his Lord . 
After that he did not feel so lonely as he had done , and he had indeed been very much alone in London . 
And even when his work time was over , which was rare , he loitered about the shed . 
Thereafter it appeared to him that whenever Holroyd came into the shed a different note came into the sounds of the dynamo . 
My Lord bides his time , said Azuma zi to himself . 
The iniquity of the fool is not yet ripe . 
And he waited and watched for the day of reckoning . 
One day there was evidence of short circuiting , and Holroyd , making an unwary examination it was in the afternoon got a rather severe shock . 
Azuma zi from behind the engine saw him jump off and curse at the peccant coil . 
He is warned , said Azuma zi to himself . 
Surely my Lord is very patient . 
Holroyd had at first initiated his nigger into such elementary conceptions of the dynamo's working as would enable him to take temporary charge of the shed in his absence . 
But when he noticed the manner in which Azuma zi hung about the monster he became suspicious . 
Azuma zi obeyed at the time , but later he was caught bowing before the Lord of the Dynamos . 
At which Holroyd twisted his arm and kicked him as he turned to go away . 
It is hard to say exactly what madness is . 
I fancy Azuma zi was mad . 
At any rate , when the idea of making Holroyd a sacrifice to the Dynamo Fetich was thus suggested to him , it filled him with a strange tumult of exultant emotion . 
That night the two men and their black shadows were alone in the shed together . 
The shed was lit with one big arc light that winked and flickered purple . 
The shadows lay black behind the dynamos , the ball governors of the engines whirled from light to darkness , and their pistons beat loud and steady . 
The world outside seen through the open end of the shed seemed incredibly dim and remote . 
It seemed absolutely silent , too , since the riot of the machinery drowned every external sound . 
Far away was the black fence of the yard with grey shadowy houses behind , and above was the deep blue sky and the pale little stars . 
Azuma zi suddenly walked across the centre of the shed above which the leather bands were running , and went into the shadow by the big dynamo . 
Holroyd heard a click , and the spin of the armature changed . 
What are you dewin' with that switch ? he bawled in surprise . 
Han't I told you Then he saw the set expression of Azuma zi's eyes as the Asiatic came out of the shadow towards him . 
In another moment the two men were grappling fiercely in front of the great dynamo . 
You coffee headed fool ! gasped Holroyd , with a brown hand at his throat . 
Keep off those contact rings . 
In another moment he was tripped and reeling back upon the Lord of the Dynamos . 
He instinctively loosened his grip upon his antagonist to save himself from the machine . 
The messenger , sent in furious haste from the station to find out what had happened in the dynamo shed , met Azuma zi at the porter's lodge by the gate . 
Azuma zi tried to explain something , but the messenger could make nothing of the black's incoherent English , and hurried on to the shed . 
The machines were all noisily at work , and nothing seemed to be disarranged . 
There was , however , a queer smell of singed hair . 
Then he saw an odd looking crumpled mass clinging to the front of the big dynamo , and , approaching , recognised the distorted remains of Holroyd . 
The man stared and hesitated a moment . 
Then he saw the face , and shut his eyes convulsively . 
He turned on his heel before he opened them , so that he should not see Holroyd again , and went out of the shed to get advice and help . 
When Azuma zi saw Holroyd die in the grip of the Great Dynamo he had been a little scared about the consequences of his act . 
Yet he felt strangely elated , and knew that the favour of the Lord Dynamo was upon him . 
His plan was already settled when he met the man coming from the station , and the scientific manager who speedily arrived on the scene jumped at the obvious conclusion of suicide . 
This expert scarcely noticed Azuma zi , except to ask a few questions . 
Did he see Holroyd kill himself ? Azuma zi explained that he had been out of sight at the engine furnace until he heard a difference in the noise from the dynamo . 
It was not a difficult examination , being untinctured by suspicion . 
The distorted remains of Holroyd , which the electrician removed from the machine , were hastily covered by the porter with a coffee stained tablecloth . 
Somebody , by a happy inspiration , fetched a medical man . 
The expert was chiefly anxious to get the machine at work again , for seven or eight trains had stopped midway in the stuffy tunnels of the electric railway . 
Presently the body was carried away , and public interest departed with it . 
Azuma zi remained very quietly at his furnace , seeing over and over again in the coals a figure that wriggled violently and became still . 
An hour after the murder , to anyone coming into the shed it would have looked exactly as if nothing had ever happened there . 
After all , from the mechanical point of view , it had been a most insignificant incident the mere temporary deflection of a current . 
Have I not served my Lord ? said Azuma zi inaudibly , from his shadow , and the note of the great dynamo rang out full and clear . 
As he looked at the big whirling mechanism the strange fascination of it that had been a little in abeyance since Holroyd's death , resumed its sway . 
Never had Azuma zi seen a man killed so swiftly and pitilessly . 
The big humming machine had slain its victim without wavering for a second from its steady beating . 
It was indeed a mighty god . 
The unconscious scientific manager stood with his back to him , scribbling on a piece of paper . 
His shadow lay at the foot of the monster . 
Was the Lord Dynamo still hungry ? His servant was ready . 
Azuma zi made a stealthy step forward then stopped . 
The scientific manager suddenly stopped writing , and walked down the shed to the endmost of the dynamos , and began to examine the brushes . 
Azuma zi hesitated , and then slipped across noiselessly into shadow by the switch . 
Presently the manager's footsteps could be heard returning . 
He stopped in his old position , unconscious of the stoker crouching ten feet away from him . 
Then the big dynamo suddenly fizzled , and in another moment Azuma zi had sprung out of the darkness upon him . 
Then the black grasped him again , putting a curly head against his chest , and they swayed and panted as it seemed for an age or so . 
Then the scientific manager was impelled to catch a black ear in his teeth and bite furiously . 
The scientific manager was making some ineffectual attempts to claw something with his hands and to kick , when the welcome sound of quick footsteps sounded on the floor . 
The next moment Azuma zi had left him and darted towards the big dynamo . 
There was a splutter amid the roar . 
I'm jolly glad you came in when you did , said the scientific manager , still sitting on the floor . 
He looked at the still quivering figure . 
It's not a nice death to die , apparently but it is quick . 
The official was still staring at the body . 
He was a man of slow apprehension . 
The scientific manager got up on his feet rather awkwardly . 
He ran his fingers along his collar thoughtfully , and moved his head to and fro several times . 
Poor Holroyd ! I see now . 
Then almost mechanically he went towards the switch in the shadow and turned the current into the railway circuit again . 
As he did so the singed body loosened its grip upon the machine and fell forward on its face . 
The core of the dynamo roared out loud and clear , and the armature beat the air . 
So ended prematurely the Worship of the Dynamo Deity , perhaps the most short lived of all religions . 
Yet withal it could at least boast a Martyrdom and a Human Sacrifice . 
In this valley it neither rained nor snowed , but the abundant springs gave a rich green pasture , that irrigation would spread over all the valley space . 
The settlers did well indeed there . 
Their beasts did well and multiplied , and but one thing marred their happiness . 
Yet it was enough to mar it greatly . 
A strange disease had come upon them and had made all the children born to them there and , indeed , several older children also blind . 
It was to seek some charm or antidote against this plague of blindness that he had with fatigue and danger and difficulty returned down the gorge . 
In his wallet he had a bar of native silver for which he would not account he insisted there was none in the valley with something of the insistence of an inexpert liar . 
They had all clubbed their money and ornaments together , having little need for such treasure up there , he said , to buy them holy help against their ill . 
But the rest of his story of mischances is lost to me , save that I know of his evil death after several years . 
And amidst the little population of that now isolated and forgotten valley the disease ran its course . 
The old became groping , the young saw but dimly , and the children that were born to them never saw at all . 
The seeing had become purblind so gradually that they scarcely noticed their loss . 
They guided the sightless youngsters hither and thither until they knew the whole valley marvellously , and when at last sight died out among them the race lived on . 
They had even time to adapt themselves to the blind control of fire , which they made carefully in stoves of stone . 
They forgot many things they devised many things . 
Their tradition of the greater world they came from became mythical in colour and uncertain . 
These two passed , leaving their effects , and the little community grew in numbers and in understanding , and met and settled social and economic problems that arose . 
Thereabout it chanced that a man came into this community from the outer world . 
And this is the story of that man . 
He climbed here and he climbed there , and then came the attempt on Parascotopetl , the Matterhorn of the Andes , in which he was lost to the outer world . 
The story of that accident has been written a dozen times . 
Pointer's narrative is the best . 
They shouted , and there was no reply shouted and whistled , and for the rest of that night they slept no more . 
As the morning broke they saw the traces of his fall . 
It seems impossible he could have uttered a sound . 
His track went straight to the edge of a frightful precipice , and beyond that everything was hidden . 
Far , far below , and hazy with distance , they could see trees rising out of a narrow , shut in valley the lost Country of the Blind . 
But they did not know it was the lost Country of the Blind , nor distinguish it in any way from any other narrow streak of upland valley . 
Unnerved by this disaster , they abandoned their attempt in the afternoon , and Pointer was called away to the war before he could make another attack . 
To this day Parascotopetl lifts an unconquered crest , and Pointer's shelter crumbles unvisited amidst the snows . 
And the man who fell survived . 
At the end of the slope he fell a thousand feet , and came down in the midst of a cloud of snow upon a snow slope even steeper than the one above . 
He rested flat upon his chest for a space , wondering where he was and what had happened to him . 
He explored his limbs , and discovered that several of his buttons were gone and his coat turned over his head . 
His knife had gone from his pocket and his hat was lost , though he had tied it under his chin . 
He recalled that he had been looking for loose stones to raise his piece of the shelter wall . 
His ice axe had disappeared . 
He decided he must have fallen , and looked up to see , exaggerated by the ghastly light of the rising moon , the tremendous flight he had taken . 
For a while he lay , gazing blankly at the vast , pale cliff towering above , rising moment by moment out of a subsiding tide of darkness . 
Its phantasmal , mysterious beauty held him for a space , and then he was seized with a paroxysm of sobbing laughter . 
After a great interval of time he became aware that he was near the lower edge of the snow . 
He was awakened by the singing of birds in the trees far below . 
Over against him another wall of rock reared itself against the sky . 
The gorge between these precipices ran east and west and was full of the morning sunlight , which lit to the westward the mass of fallen mountain that closed the descending gorge . 
But the distant valley with its houses was all the brighter for that . 
He came presently to talus , and among the rocks he noted for he was an observant man an unfamiliar fern that seemed to clutch out of the crevices with intense green hands . 
He picked a frond or so and gnawed its stalk , and found it helpful . 
About midday he came at last out of the throat of the gorge into the plain and the sunlight . 
They were very strange to his eyes , and indeed the whole aspect of that valley became , as he regarded it , queerer and more unfamiliar . 
The greater part of its surface was lush green meadow , starred with many beautiful flowers , irrigated with extraordinary care , and bearing evidence of systematic cropping piece by piece . 
Sheds , apparently shelters or feeding places for the llamas , stood against the boundary wall here and there . 
The irrigation streams ran together into a main channel down the centre of the valley , and this was enclosed on either side by a wall breast high . 
The good man who did that , he thought , must have been as blind as a bat . 
These latter were clad in garments of llama cloth and boots and belts of leather , and they wore caps of cloth with back and ear flaps . 
They followed one another in single file , walking slowly and yawning as they walked , like men who have been up all night . 
The three men stopped , and moved their heads as though they were looking about them . 
They turned their faces this way and that , and Nunez gesticulated with freedom . 
Nunez bawled again , and then once more , and as he gestured ineffectually the word blind came up to the top of his thoughts . 
The fools must be blind , he said . 
He was sure that this was the Country of the Blind of which the legends told . 
Conviction had sprung upon him , and a sense of great and rather enviable adventure . 
The three stood side by side , not looking at him , but with their ears directed towards him , judging him by his unfamiliar steps . 
They stood close together like men a little afraid , and he could see their eyelids closed and sunken , as though the very balls beneath had shrunk away . 
There was an expression near awe on their faces . 
A man , one said , in hardly recognisable Spanish . 
A man it is a man or a spirit coming down from the rocks . 
But Nunez advanced with the confident steps of a youth who enters upon life . 
In the Country of the Blind the One Eyed Man is King . 
And very civilly he gave them greeting . 
He talked to them and used his eyes . 
Where does he come from , brother Pedro ? asked one . 
Down out of the rocks . 
Over the mountains I come , said Nunez , out of the country beyond there where men can see . 
From near Bogota where there are a hundred thousands of people , and where the city passes out of sight . 
Sight ? He comes , said the second blind man , out of the rocks . 
The cloth of their coats , Nunez saw was curious fashioned , each with a different sort of stitching . 
They startled him by a simultaneous movement towards him , each with a hand outstretched . 
He stepped back from the advance of these spread fingers . 
Come hither , said the third blind man , following his motion and clutching him neatly . 
And they held Nunez and felt him over , saying no word further until they had done so . 
Carefully , he cried , with a finger in his eye , and found they thought that organ , with its fluttering lids , a queer thing in him . 
They went over it again . 
A strange creature , Correa , said the one called Pedro . 
Feel the coarseness of his hair . 
Rough he is as the rocks that begot him , said Correa , investigating Nunez's unshaven chin with a soft and slightly moist hand . 
Perhaps he will grow finer . 
Nunez struggled a little under their examination , but they gripped him firm . 
Carefully , he said again . 
He speaks , said the third man . 
Certainly he is a man . 
Ugh ! said Pedro , at the roughness of his coat . 
And you have come into the world ? asked Pedro . 
Over mountains and glaciers right over above there , half way to the sun . 
Out of the great , big world that goes down , twelve days' journey to the sea . 
They scarcely seemed to heed him . 
Our fathers have told us men may be made by the forces of Nature , said Correa . 
It is the warmth of things , and moisture , and rottenness rottenness . 
Let us lead him to the elders , said Pedro . 
Shout first , said Correa , lest the children be afraid . 
This is a marvellous occasion . 
So they shouted , and Pedro went first and took Nunez by the hand to lead him to the houses . 
He drew his hand away . 
I can see , he said . 
Yes see , said Nunez , turning towards him , and stumbled against Pedro's pail . 
His senses are still imperfect , said the third blind man . 
He stumbles , and talks unmeaning words . 
Lead him by the hand . 
As you will , said Nunez , and was led along laughing . 
It seemed they knew nothing of sight . 
Well , all in good time he would teach them . 
He heard people shouting , and saw a number of figures gathering together in the middle roadway of the village . 
He found it tax his nerve and patience more than he had anticipated , that first encounter with the population of the Country of the Blind . 
came about him , holding on to him , touching him with soft , sensitive hands , smelling at him , and listening at every word he spoke . 
Some of the maidens and children , however , kept aloof as if afraid , and indeed his voice seemed coarse and rude beside their softer notes . 
His three guides kept close to him with an effect of proprietorship , and said again and again , A wild man out of the rocks . 
A wild man using wild words , said Pedro . 
Did you hear that BOGOTA ? His mind has hardly formed yet . 
He has only the beginnings of speech . 
A little boy nipped his hand . 
Bogota ! he said mockingly . 
Aye ! A city to your village . 
I come from the great world where men have eyes and see . 
His name's Bogota , they said . 
He stumbled , said Correa stumbled twice as we came hither . 
Bring him in to the elders . 
And they thrust him suddenly through a doorway into a room as black as pitch , save at the end there faintly glowed a fire . 
It was a one sided fight . 
An inkling of the situation came to him and he lay quiet . 
I fell down , be said I couldn't see in this pitchy darkness . 
There was a pause as if the unseen persons about him tried to understand his words . 
Then the voice of Correa said He is but newly formed . 
He stumbles as he walks and mingles words that mean nothing with his speech . 
Others also said things about him that he heard or understood imperfectly . 
May I sit up ? he asked , in a pause . 
I will not struggle against you again . 
They consulted and let him rise . 
And they would believe and understand nothing whatever that he told them , a thing quite outside his expectation . 
They would not even understand many of his words . 
Much of their imagination had shrivelled with their eyes , and they had made for themselves new imaginations with their ever more sensitive ears and finger tips . 
He said the night for the blind call their day night was now far gone , and it behooved everyone to go back to sleep . 
He asked Nunez if he knew how to sleep , and Nunez said he did , but that before sleep he wanted food . 
But Nunez slumbered not at all . 
Instead , he sat up in the place where they had left him , resting his limbs and turning the unanticipated circumstances of his arrival over and over in his mind . 
Every now and then he laughed , sometimes with amusement and sometimes with indignation . 
Unformed mind ! he said . 
Got no senses yet ! They little know they've been insulting their Heaven sent King and master . 
I see I must bring them to reason . 
He was still thinking when the sun set . 
He heard a voice calling to him from out of the village . 
Yaho there , Bogota ! Come hither ! At that he stood up , smiling . 
He would show these people once and for all what sight would do for a man . 
They would seek him , but not find him . 
You move not , Bogota , said the voice . 
He laughed noiselessly and made two stealthy steps aside from the path . 
Trample not on the grass , Bogota that is not allowed . 
Nunez had scarcely heard the sound he made himself . 
The owner of the voice came running up the piebald path towards him . 
He stepped back into the pathway . 
Here I am , he said . 
Why did you not come when I called you ? said the blind man . 
Must you be led like a child ? Cannot you hear the path as you walk ? Nunez laughed . 
I can see it , he said . 
There is no such word as SEE , said the blind man , after a pause . 
Cease this folly and follow the sound of my feet . 
Nunez followed , a little annoyed . 
My time will come , he said . 
You'll learn , the blind man answered . 
There is much to learn in the world . 
Has no one told you , 'In the Country of the Blind the One Eyed Man is King ? What is blind ? asked the blind man , carelessly , over his shoulder . 
Four days passed and the fifth found the King of the Blind still incognito , as a clumsy and useless stranger among his subjects . 
He found working and going about at night a particularly irksome thing , and he decided that that should be the first thing he would change . 
They led a simple , laborious life , these people , with all the elements of virtue and happiness as these things can be understood by men . 
It was marvellous with what confidence and precision they went about their ordered world . 
Their senses had become marvellously acute they could hear and judge the slightest gesture of a man a dozen paces away could hear the very beating of his heart . 
Intonation had long replaced expression with them , and touches gesture , and their work with hoe and spade and fork was as free and confident as garden work can be . 
It was only when at last Nunez sought to assert himself that he found how easy and confident their movements could be . 
He rebelled only after he had tried persuasion . 
He tried at first on several occasions to tell them of sight . 
Look you here , you people , he said . 
There are things you do not understand in me . 
He spoke of the beauties of sight , of watching the mountains , of the sky and the sunrise , and they heard him with amused incredulity that presently became condemnatory . 
He saw that in some manner he shocked them , and gave up that aspect of the matter altogether , and tried to show them the practical value of sight . 
One morning he saw Pedro in the path called Seventeen and coming towards the central houses , but still too far off for hearing or scent , and he told them as much . 
In a little while , he prophesied , Pedro will be here . 
He thought of seizing a spade and suddenly smiting one or two of them to earth , and so in fair combat showing the advantage of eyes . 
He hesitated , and found them all aware that he had snatched up the spade . 
They stood all alert , with their heads on one side , and bent ears towards him for what he would do next . 
Put that spade down , said one , and he felt a sort of helpless horror . 
Then he had thrust one backwards against a house wall , and fled past him and out of the village . 
He went athwart one of their meadows , leaving a track of trampled grass behind his feet , and presently sat down by the side of one of their ways . 
He felt something of the buoyancy that comes to all men in the beginning of a fight , but more perplexity . 
He began to realise that you cannot even fight happily with creatures who stand upon a different mental basis to yourself . 
Far away he saw a number of men carrying spades and sticks come out of the street of houses and advance in a spreading line along the several paths towards him . 
They advanced slowly , speaking frequently to one another , and ever and again the whole cordon would halt and sniff the air and listen . 
The first time they did this Nunez laughed . 
But afterwards he did not laugh . 
One struck his trail in the meadow grass and came stooping and feeling his way along it . 
For five minutes he watched the slow extension of the cordon , and then his vague disposition to do something forthwith became frantic . 
He stood up , went a pace or so towards the circumferential wall , turned , and went back a little way . 
There they all stood in a crescent , still and listening . 
He also stood still , gripping his spade very tightly in both hands . 
Should he charge them ? The pulse in his ears ran into the rhythm of In the Country of the Blind the One Eyed Man is King . 
Behind these others were now coming out of the street of houses . 
Should he charge them ? Bogota ! called one . 
Bogota ! where are you ? He gripped his spade still tighter and advanced down the meadows towards the place of habitations , and directly he moved they converged upon him . 
I'll hit them if they touch me , he swore by Heaven , I will . 
They were moving in upon him quickly , groping , yet moving rapidly . 
It was like playing blind man's buff with everyone blindfolded except one . 
Get hold of him ! cried one . 
He found himself in the arc of a loose curve of pursuers . 
He felt suddenly he must be active and resolute . 
You don't understand , he cried , in a voice that was meant to be great and resolute , and which broke . 
You are blind and I can see . 
Leave me alone ! Bogota ! Put down that spade and come off the grass ! The last order , grotesque in its urban familiarity , produced a gust of anger . 
I'll hurt you , he said , sobbing with emotion . 
By Heaven , I'll hurt you ! Leave me alone ! He began to run not knowing clearly where to run . 
He ran from the nearest blind man , because it was a horror to hit him . 
He stopped , and then made a dash to escape from their closing ranks . 
He made for where a gap was wide , and the men on either side , with a quick perception of the approach of his paces , rushed in on one another . 
He sprang forward , and then saw he must be caught , and SWISH ! the spade had struck . 
He felt the soft thud of hand and arm , and the man was down with a yell of pain , and he was through . 
Through ! And then he was close to the street of houses again , and blind men , whirling spades and stakes , were running with a reasoned swiftness hither and thither . 
He heard steps behind him just in time , and found a tall man rushing forward and swiping at the sound of him . 
He lost his nerve , hurled his spade a yard wide of this antagonist , and whirled about and fled , fairly yelling as he dodged another . 
He ran furiously to and fro , dodging when there was no need to dodge , and , in his anxiety to see on every side of him at once , stumbling . 
For a moment he was down and they heard his fall . 
Far away in the circumferential wall a little doorway looked like Heaven , and he set off in a wild rush for it . 
And so his coup d'etat came to an end . 
He stayed outside the wall of the valley of the blind for two nights and days without food or shelter , and meditated upon the Unexpected . 
During these meditations he repeated very frequently and always with a profounder note of derision the exploded proverb In the Country of the Blind the One Eyed Man is King . 
He thought chiefly of ways of fighting and conquering these people , and it grew clear that for him no practicable way was possible . 
He had no weapons , and now it would be hard to get one . 
The canker of civilisation had got to him even in Bogota , and he could not find it in himself to go down and assassinate a blind man . 
Of course , if he did that , he might then dictate terms on the threat of assassinating them all . 
But Sooner or later he must sleep ! . 
But the llamas had a doubt of him and regarded him with distrustful brown eyes and spat when he drew near . 
Fear came on him the second day and fits of shivering . 
Finally he crawled down to the wall of the Country of the Blind and tried to make his terms . 
He crawled along by the stream , shouting , until two blind men came out to the gate and talked to him . 
I was mad , he said . 
But I was only newly made . 
They said that was better . 
He told them he was wiser now , and repented of all he had done . 
Then he wept without intention , for he was very weak and ill now , and they took that as a favourable sign . 
They asked him if he still thought he could SEE . 
Less than nothing ! They asked him what was overhead . 
About ten times ten the height of a man there is a roof above the world of rock and very , very smooth . 
So smooth so beautifully smooth . 
He burst again into hysterical tears . 
Before you ask me any more , give me some food or I shall die ! He expected dire punishments , but these blind people were capable of toleration . 
He was ill for some days and they nursed him kindly . 
But they insisted on his lying in the dark , and that was a great misery . 
There was Yacob , his master , a kindly man when not annoyed there was Pedro , Yacob's nephew and there was Medina sarote , who was the youngest daughter of Yacob . 
And her voice was weak and did not satisfy the acute hearing of the valley swains . 
So that she had no lover . 
There came a time when Nunez thought that , could he win her , he would be resigned to live in the valley for all the rest of his days . 
He watched her he sought opportunities of doing her little services and presently he found that she observed him . 
Once at a rest day gathering they sat side by side in the dim starlight , and the music was sweet . 
His hand came upon hers and he dared to clasp it . 
Then very tenderly she returned his pressure . 
He sought to speak to her . 
He went to her one day when she was sitting in the summer moonlight spinning . 
The light made her a thing of silver and mystery . 
He sat down at her feet and told her he loved her , and told her how beautiful she seemed to him . 
He had a lover's voice , he spoke with a tender reverence that came near to awe , and she had never before been touched by adoration . 
She made him no definite answer , but it was clear his words pleased her . 
After that he talked to her whenever he could take an opportunity . 
Very tentatively and timidly he spoke to her of sight . 
She did not believe , she could only half understand , but she was mysteriously delighted , and it seemed to him that she completely understood . 
His love lost its awe and took courage . 
Presently he was for demanding her of Yacob and the elders in marriage , but she became fearful and delayed . 
And it was one of her elder sisters who first told Yacob that Medina sarote and Nunez were in love . 
The young men were all angry at the idea of corrupting the race , and one went so far as to revile and strike Nunez . 
Then for the first time he found an advantage in seeing , even by twilight , and after that fight was over no one was disposed to raise a hand against him . 
But they still found his marriage impossible . 
Old Yacob had a tenderness for his last little daughter , and was grieved to have her weep upon his shoulder . 
You see , my dear , he's an idiot . 
He has delusions he can't do anything right . 
I know , wept Medina sarote . 
But he's better than he was . 
And he's strong , dear father , and kind stronger and kinder than any other man in the world . 
And he loves me and , father , I love him . 
Old Yacob was greatly distressed to find her inconsolable , and , besides what made it more distressing he liked Nunez for many things . 
Very likely , some day , we shall find him as sane as ourselves . 
Then afterwards one of the elders , who thought deeply , had an idea . 
One day when Yacob was present he returned to the topic of Nunez . 
I have examined Nunez , he said , and the case is clearer to me . 
I think very probably he might be cured . 
This is what I have always hoped , said old Yacob . 
His brain is affected , said the blind doctor . 
Now , WHAT affects it ? Ah ! said old Yacob . 
THIS , said the doctor , answering his own question . 
They are greatly distended , he has eyelashes , and his eyelids move , and consequently his brain is in a state of constant irritation and distraction . 
Yes ? said old Yacob . 
And then he will be sane ? Then he will be perfectly sane , and a quite admirable citizen . 
Thank Heaven for science ! said old Yacob , and went forth at once to tell Nunez of his happy hopes . 
But Nunez's manner of receiving the good news struck him as being cold and disappointing . 
One might think , he said , from the tone you take that you did not care for my daughter . 
It was Medina sarote who persuaded Nunez to face the blind surgeons . 
YOU do not want me , he said , to lose my gift of sight ? She shook her head . 
For you alone it is good to have sight , to see your sweet , serene face , your kindly lips , your dear , beautiful hands folded together . 
It is these eyes of mine you won , these eyes that hold me to you , that these idiots seek . 
Instead , I must touch you , hear you , and never see you again . 
I must come under that roof of rock and stone and darkness , that horrible roof under which your imaginations stoop . 
NO YOU would not have me do that ? A disagreeable doubt had arisen in him . 
He stopped and left the thing a question . 
I wish , she said , sometimes She paused . 
Yes ? he said , a little apprehensively . 
I wish sometimes you would not talk like that . 
Like what ? I know it's pretty it's your imagination . 
I love it , but NOW He felt cold . 
NOW ? he said , faintly . 
You mean you think I should be better , better perhaps He was realising things very swiftly . 
He felt anger perhaps , anger at the dull course of fate , but also sympathy for her lack of understanding a sympathy near akin to pity . 
DEAR , he said , and he could see by her whiteness how tensely her spirit pressed against the things she could not say . 
He put his arms about her , he kissed her ear , and they sat for a time in silence . 
If I were to consent to this ? he said at last , in a voice that was very gentle . 
She flung her arms about him , weeping wildly . 
He had given his answer , he had given his consent , and still he was not sure . 
And at last work time was over , the sun rose in splendour over the golden crests , and his last day of vision began for him . 
He had a few minutes with Medina sarote before she went apart to sleep . 
To morrow , he said , I shall see no more . 
Dear heart ! she answered , and pressed his hands with all her strength . 
They will hurt you but little , she said and you are going through this pain , you are going through it , dear lover , for ME . 
Dear , if a woman's heart and life can do it , I will repay you . 
My dearest one , my dearest with the tender voice , I will repay . 
He was drenched in pity for himself and her . 
He held her in his arms , and pressed his lips to hers and looked on her sweet face for the last time . 
Good bye ! he whispered to that dear sight , good bye ! And then in silence he turned away from her . 
She could hear his slow retreating footsteps , and something in the rhythm of them threw her into a passion of weeping . 
It seemed to him that before this splendour he and this blind world in the valley , and his love and all , were no more than a pit of sin . 
He thought how for a day or so one might come down through passes drawing ever nearer and nearer to its busy streets and ways . 
His eyes began to scrutinise the great curtain of the mountains with a keener inquiry . 
And then ? That talus might be managed . 
And then ? Then one would be out upon the amber lit snow there , and half way up to the crest of those beautiful desolations . 
And suppose one had good fortune ! He glanced back at the village , then turned right round and regarded it with folded arms . 
He thought of Medina sarote , and she had become small and remote . 
He turned again towards the mountain wall down which the day had come to him . 
Then very circumspectly he began his climb . 
When sunset came he was not longer climbing , but he was far and high . 
From where he rested the valley seemed as if it were in a pit and nearly a mile below . 
Already it was dim with haze and shadow , though the mountain summits around him were things of light and fire . 
There were deep , mysterious shadows in the gorge , blue deepening into purple , and purple into a luminous darkness , and overhead was the illimitable vastness of the sky . 
And the glow of the sunset passed , and the night came , and still he lay there , under the cold , clear stars . 
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Door in the Wall , et . 
