Proofread by Meredith Ricker m ricker unhh . 
edu and and John Hamm John Hamm Mindlink . 
The pair of legs that carried him were rickety , and there was a bias in his gait which inclined him somewhat to the left of a straight line . 
He occasionally gave a smart nod , as if in confirmation of some opinion , though he was not thinking of anything in particular . 
Presently he was met by an elderly parson astride on a gray mare , who , as he rode , hummed a wandering tune . 
Good night t'ee , said the man with the basket . 
Good night , Sir John , said the parson . 
The pedestrian , after another pace or two , halted , and turned round . 
I did , said the parson . 
And once before that near a month ago . 
Then what might your meaning be in calling me 'Sir John' these different times , when I be plain Jack Durbeyfield , the haggler ? The parson rode a step or two nearer . 
I am Parson Tringham , the antiquary , of Stagfoot Lane . 
Throw up your chin a moment , so that I may catch the profile of your face better . 
Yes , that's the d'Urberville nose and chin a little debased . 
Your ancestor was one of the twelve knights who assisted the Lord of Estremavilla in Normandy in his conquest of Glamorganshire . 
Branches of your family held manors over all this part of England their names appear in the Pipe Rolls in the time of King Stephen . 
You declined a little in Oliver Cromwell's time , but to no serious extent , and in Charles the Second's reign you were made Knights of the Royal Oak for your loyalty . 
Ye don't say so ! In short , concluded the parson , decisively smacking his leg with his switch , there's hardly such another family in England . 
Daze my eyes , and isn't there ? said Durbeyfield . 
And here have I been knocking about , year after year , from pillar to post , as if I was no more than the commonest feller in the parish . 
At first I resolved not to disturb you with such a useless piece of information , said he . 
However , our impulses are too strong for our judgement sometimes . 
I thought you might perhaps know something of it all the while . 
Well , I have heard once or twice , 'tis true , that my family had seen better days afore they came to Blackmoor . 
But I took no notice o't , thinking it to mean that we had once kept two horses where we now keep only one . 
I've got a wold silver spoon , and a wold graven seal at home , too but , Lord , what's a spoon and seal ? . 
And to think that I and these noble d'Urbervilles were one flesh all the time . 
'Twas said that my gr't granfer had secrets , and didn't care to talk of where he came from . 
And where do we raise our smoke , now , parson , if I may make so bold I mean , where do we d'Urbervilles live ? You don't live anywhere . 
You are extinct as a county family . 
Yes what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line that is , gone down gone under . 
Then where do we lie ? At Kingsbere sub Greenhill rows and rows of you in your vaults , with your effigies under Purbeck marble canopies . 
And where be our family mansions and estates ? You haven't any . 
Oh ? No lands neither ? None though you once had 'em in abundance , as I said , for you family consisted of numerous branches . 
In this county there was a seat of yours at Kingsbere , and another at Sherton , and another in Millpond , and another at Lullstead , and another at Wellbridge . 
And shall we ever come into our own again ? Ah that I can't tell ! And what had I better do about it , sir ? asked Durbeyfield , after a pause . 
Oh nothing , nothing except chasten yourself with the thought of 'how are the mighty fallen . 
It is a fact of some interest to the local historian and genealogist , nothing more . 
There are several families among the cottagers of this county of almost equal lustre . 
No , thank you not this evening , Durbeyfield . 
Concluding thus the parson rode on his way , with doubts as to his discretion in retailing this curious bit of lore . 
When he was gone Durbeyfield walked a few steps in a profound reverie , and then sat down upon the grassy bank by the roadside , depositing his basket before him . 
In a few minutes a youth appeared in the distance , walking in the same direction as that which had been pursued by Durbeyfield . 
The latter , on seeing him , held up his hand , and the lad quickened his pace and came near . 
Boy , take up that basket ! I want 'ee to go on an errand for me . 
The lath like stripling frowned . 
The lad stood before Durbeyfield , and contemplated his length from crown to toe . 
Sir John d'Urberville that's who I am , continued the prostrate man . 
That is if knights were baronets which they be . 
Tis recorded in history all about me . 
Dost know of such a place , lad , as Kingsbere sub Greenhill ? Ees , I've been there to Greenhill Fair . 
Well , under the church of that city there lie 'Tisn't a city , the place I mean leastwise 'twaddn' when I was there 'twas a little one eyed , blinking sort o'place . 
Never you mind the place , boy , that's not the question before us . 
Under the church of that there parish lie my ancestors hundreds of 'em in coats of mail and jewels , in gr't lead coffins weighing tons and tons . 
And in the bottom o' the carriage they be to put a noggin o' rum in a small bottle , and chalk it up to my account . 
As the lad stood in a dubious attitude , Durbeyfield put his hand in his pocket , and produced a shilling , one of the chronically few that he possessed . 
Here's for your labour , lad . 
This made a difference in the young man's estimate of the position . 
The boy took up the basket , and as he set out the notes of a brass band were heard from the direction of the village . 
What's that ? said Durbeyfield . 
Not on account o' I ? 'Tis the women's club walking , Sir John . 
Why , your da'ter is one o' the members . 
The lad departed , and Durbeyfield lay waiting on the grass and daisies in the evening sun . 
Not a soul passed that way for a long while , and the faint notes of the band were the only human sounds audible within the rim of blue hills . 
It is a vale whose acquaintance is best made by viewing it from the summits of the hills that surround it except perhaps during the droughts of summer . 
An unguided ramble into its recesses in bad weather is apt to engender dissatisfaction with its narrow , tortuous , and miry ways . 
Arable lands are few and limited with but slight exceptions the prospect is a broad rich mass of grass and trees , mantling minor hills and dales within the major . 
Such is the Vale of Blackmoor . 
The district is of historic , no less than of topographical interest . 
In those days , and till comparatively recent times , the country was densely wooded . 
The forests have departed , but some old customs of their shades remain . 
Many , however , linger only in a metamorphosed or disguised form . 
It was an interesting event to the younger inhabitants of Marlott , though its real interest was not observed by the participators in the ceremony . 
Its singularity lay less in the retention of a custom of walking in procession and dancing on each anniversary than in the members being solely women . 
or this their glory and consummation . 
The club of Marlott alone lived to uphold the local Cerealia . 
It had walked for hundreds of years , if not as benefit club , as votive sisterhood of some sort and it walked still . 
Their first exhibition of themselves was in a processional march of two and two round the parish . 
inclined to a cadaverous tint , and to a Georgian style . 
In addition to the distinction of a white frock , every woman and girl carried in her right hand a peeled willow wand , and in her left a bunch of white flowers . 
The peeling of the former , and the selection of the latter , had been an operation of personal care . 
But let the elder be passed over here for those under whose bodices the life throbbed quick and warm . 
The young girls formed , indeed , the majority of the band , and their heads of luxuriant hair reflected in the sunshine every tone of gold , and black , and brown . 
Some had beautiful eyes , others a beautiful nose , others a beautiful mouth and figure few , if any , had all . 
They they were all cheerful , and many of them merry . 
She was a fine and handsome girl not handsomer than some others , possibly but her mobile peony mouth and large innocent eyes added eloquence to colour and shape . 
She wore a red ribbon in her hair , and was the only one of the white company who could boast of such a pronounced adornment . 
This was the cheerful servant of that establishment , who , in her part of factotum , turned groom and ostler at times . 
He's tired , that's all , she said hastily , and he has got a lift home , because our own horse has to rest today . 
Bless thy simplicity , Tess , said her companions . 
He's got his market nitch . 
In a moment her eyes grew moist , and her glance drooped to the ground . 
Perceiving that they had really pained her they said no more , and order again prevailed . 
By the time the spot was reached she has recovered her equanimity , and tapped her neighbour with her wand and talked as usual . 
Tess Durbeyfield at this time of her life was a mere vessel of emotion untinctured by experience . 
Phases of her childhood lurked in her aspect still . 
Yet few knew , and still fewer considered this . 
Nothing was seen or heard further of Durbeyfield in his triumphal chariot under the conduct of the ostleress , and the club having entered the allotted space , dancing began . 
Among these on lookers were three young men of a superior class , carrying small knapsacks strapped to their shoulders , and stout sticks in their hands . 
Their general likeness to each other , and their consecutive ages , would almost have suggested that they might be , what in fact they were , brothers . 
That he was a desultory tentative student of something and everything might only have been predicted of him . 
dh They leant over the gate by the highway , and inquired as to the meaning of the dance and the white frocked maids . 
He unstrapped his knapsack , put it , with his stick , on the hedge bank , and opened the gate . 
What are you going to do , Angel ? asked the eldest . 
I am inclined to go and have a fling with them . 
Why not all of us just for a minute or two it will not detain us long ? No no nonsense ! said the first . 
All right I'll overtake you and Cuthbert in five minutes don't stop I give my word that I will , Felix . 
The two elder reluctantly left him and walked on , taking their brother's knapsack to relieve him in following , and the youngest entered the field . 
This is a thousand pities , he said gallantly , to two or three of the girls nearest him , as soon as there was a pause in the dance . 
Where are your partners , my dears ? They've not left off work yet , answered one of the boldest . 
They'll be here by and by . 
Till then , will you be one , sir ? Certainly . 
But what's one among so many ! Better than none . 
'Tis melancholy work facing and footing it to one of your own sort , and no clipsing and colling at all . 
Now , pick and choose . 
'Ssh don't be so for'ard ! said a shyer girl . 
He took almost the first that came to hand , which was not the speaker , as she had expected nor did it happen to be Tess Durbeyfield . 
So much for Norman blood unaided by Victorian lucre . 
The church clock struck , when suddenly the student said that he must leave he had been forgetting himself he had to join his companions . 
He , too , was sorry then that , owing to her backwardness , he had not observed her and with that in his mind he left the pasture . 
On account of his long delay he started in a flying run down the lane westward , and had soon passed the hollow and mounted the next rise . 
He had not yet overtaken his brothers , but he paused to get breath , and looked back . 
He could see the white figures of the girls in the green enclosure whirling about as they had whirled when he was among them . 
They seemed to have quite forgotten him already . 
All of them , except , perhaps , one . 
This white shape stood apart by the hedge alone . 
From her position he knew it to be the pretty maiden with whom he had not danced . 
Trifling as the matter was , he yet instinctively felt that she was hurt by his oversight . 
He wished that he had asked her he wished that he had inquired her name . 
She was so modest , so expressive , she had looked so soft in her thin white gown that he felt he had acted stupidly . 
However , it could not be helped , and turning , and bending himself to a rapid walk , he dismissed the subject from his mind . 
III As for Tess Durbeyfield , she did not so easily dislodge the incident from her consideration . 
The struggles and wrangles of the lads for her hand in a jig were an amusement to her no more and when they became fierce she rebuked them . 
While yet many score yards off , other rhythmic sounds than those she had quitted became audible to her sounds that she knew well so well . 
So matters stood when Tess opened the door , and paused upon the mat within it surveying the scene . 
The interior , in spite of the melody , struck upon the girl's senses with an unspeakable dreariness . 
As usual , Mrs Durbeyfield was balanced on one foot beside the tub , the other being engaged in the aforesaid business of rocking her youngest child . 
Even now , when burdened with a young family , Joan Durbeyfield was a passionate lover of tune . 
No ditty floated into Blackmoor Vale from the outer world but Tess's mother caught up its notation in a week . 
I'll rock the cradle for 'ee , mother , said the daughter gently . 
Or I'll take off my best frock and help you wring up ? I thought you had finished long ago . 
Tonight , however , she was even in a blither mood than usual . 
There was a dreaminess , a pre occupation , an exaltation , in the maternal look which the girl could not understand . 
Since I've been away ? Tess asked . 
In Saint Charles's days we was made Knights o' the Royal Oak , our real name being d'Urberville ! . 
Don't that make your bosom plim ? 'Twas on this account that your father rode home in the vlee not because he'd been drinking , as people supposed . 
Will it do us any good , mother ? O yes ! 'Tis thoughted that great things may come o't . 
No doubt a mampus of volk of our own rank will be down here in their carriages as soon as 'tis known . 
Your father learnt it on his way hwome from Shaston , and he has been telling me the whole pedigree of the matter . 
Where is father now ? asked Tess suddenly . 
Her mother gave irrelevant information by way of answer He called to see the doctor today in Shaston . 
It is not consumption at all , it seems . 
It is fat round his heart , 'a says . 
There , it is like this . 
'As soon as it do meet , so , Mrs Durbeyfield closed her fingers into a circle complete 'off you will go like a shadder , Mr Durbeyfield , 'a says . 
'You mid last ten years you mid go off in ten months , or ten days . 
Her father possibly to go behind the eternal cloud so soon , notwithstanding this sudden greatness ! But where IS father ? she asked again . 
Her mother put on a deprecating look . 
Now don't you be bursting out angry ! The poor man he felt so rafted after his uplifting by the pa'son's news that he went up to Rolliver's half an hour ago . 
He do want to get up his strength for his journey tomorrow with that load of beehives , which must be delivered , family or no . 
He'll have to start shortly after twelve tonight , as the distance is so long . 
Get up his strength ! said Tess impetuously , the tears welling to her eyes . 
No , said the latter touchily , I be not agreed . 
I have been waiting for 'ee to bide and keep house while I go fetch him . 
You see , it would be no use . 
She knew what her mother's objection meant . 
And take the COMPLEAT FORTUNE TELLER to the outhouse , Joan continued , rapidly wiping her hands , and donning the garments . 
The COMPLEAT FORTUNE TELLER was an old thick volume , which lay on a table at her elbow , so worn by pocketing that the margins had reached the edge of the type . 
Tess took it up , and her mother started . 
This going to hunt up her shiftless husband at the inn was one of Mrs Durbeyfield's still extant enjoyments in the muck and muddle of rearing children . 
To discover him at Rolliver's , to sit there for an hour or two by his side and dismiss all thought and care of the children during the interval , made her happy . 
A sort of halo , an occidental glow , came over life then . 
Troubles and other realities took on themselves a meta physical impalpability , sinking to mere mental phenomena for serene contemplation , and no longer stood as pressing concretions which chafed body and soul . 
The youngsters , not immediately within sight , seemed rather bright and desirable appurtenances than otherwise the incidents of daily life were not without humorousness and jollity in their aspect there . 
Tess , being left alone with the younger children , went first to the outhouse with the fortune telling book , and stuffed it into the thatch . 
When they were together the Jacobean and the Victorian ages were juxtaposed . 
Returning along the garden path Tess mused on what the mother could have wished to ascertain from the book on this particular day . 
She guessed the recent ancestral discovery to bear upon it , but did not divine that it solely concerned herself . 
Next in juvenility to Abraham came two more girls , Hope and Modesty then a boy of three , and then the baby , who had just completed his first year . 
All these young souls were passengers in the Durbeyfield ship entirely dependent on the judgement of the two Durbeyfield adults for their pleasures , their necessities , their health , even their existence . 
It grew later , and neither father nor mother reappeared . 
Tess looked out of the door , and took a mental journey through Marlott . 
The village was shutting its eyes . 
Candles and lamps were being put out everywhere she could inwardly behold the extinguisher and the extended hand . 
Her mother's fetching simply meant one more to fetch . 
The boy jumped promptly from his seat , and opened the door , and the night swallowed him up . 
Half an hour passed yet again neither man , woman , nor child returned . 
Abraham , like his parents , seemed to have been limed and caught by the ensnaring inn . 
I must go myself , she said . 
But there were also local customers who felt the same wish and where there's a will there's a way . 
The stage of mental comfort to which they had arrived at this hour was one wherein their souls expanded beyond their skins , and spread their personalities warmly through the room . 
Oh , 'tis you , Mrs Durbeyfield Lard how you frightened me ! I thought it might be some gaffer sent by Gover'ment . 
Mrs Durbeyfield was welcomed with glances and nods by the remainder of the conclave , and turned to where her husband sat . 
Here , John , don't 'ee see me ? She nudged him , while he , looking through her as through a window pane , went on with his recitative . 
Hush ! Don't 'ee sing so loud , my good man , said the landlady in case any member of the Gover'ment should be passing , and take away my licends . 
He's told 'ee what's happened to us , I suppose ? asked Mrs Durbeyfield . 
D'ye think there's any money hanging by it ? Ah , that's the secret , said Joan Durbeyfield sagely . 
However , 'tis well to be kin to a coach , even if you don't ride in 'en . 
Hey what's that ? said Sir John . 
That lady must be our relation , she said . 
And my projick is to send Tess to claim kin . 
There IS a lady of the name , now you mention it , said Durbeyfield . 
Pa'son Tringham didn't think of that . 
But she's nothing beside we a junior branch of us , no doubt , hailing long since King Norman's day . 
She is rich , and she'd be sure to take notice o' the maid , continued Mrs Durbeyfield and 'twill be a very good thing . 
I don't see why two branches o' one family should not be on visiting terms . 
Yes and we'll all claim kin ! said Abraham brightly from under the bedstead . 
Well , Tess ought to go to this other member of our family . 
She'd be sure to win the lady Tess would and likely enough 'twould lead to some noble gentleman marrying her . 
In short , I know it . 
How ? I tried her fate in the FORTUNE TELLER , and it brought out that very thing ! . 
You should ha' seen how pretty she looked today her skin is as sumple as a duchess's . 
What says the maid herself to going ? I've not asked her . 
She don't know there is any such lady relation yet . 
But it would certainly put her in the way of a grand marriage , and she won't say nay to going . 
But she's tractable at bottom . 
But Joan Durbeyfield must mind that she don't get green malt in floor . 
It was a local phrase which had a peculiar meaning , and there was no reply . 
The conversation became inclusive , and presently other footsteps were heard crossing the room below . 
Being a few private friends asked in tonight to keep up club walking at my own expense . 
The landlady had rapidly re used the formula she kept on hand for intruders before she recognized that the newcomer was Tess . 
Yours is not the only family that was of 'count in wold days . 
Look at the Anktells , and Horseys , and the Tringhams themselves gone to seed a'most as much as you though you was bigger folks then they , that's true . 
Thank God , I was never of no family , and have nothing to be ashamed of in that way ! Don't you be so sure o' that . 
From you nater 'tis my belief you've disgraced yourselves more than any o' us , and was kings and queens outright at one time . 
I ? I shall be all right in an hour or two , said Durbeyfield . 
At half past one Mrs Durbeyfield came into the large bedroom where Tess and all her little brothers and sisters slept . 
The poor man can't go , she said to her eldest daughter , whose great eyes had opened the moment her mother's hand touched the door . 
Tess sat up in bed , lost in a vague interspace between a dream and this information . 
But somebody must go , she replied . 
It is late for the hives already . 
Mrs Durbeyfield looked unequal to the emergency . 
Some young feller , perhaps , would go ? One of them who were so much after dancing with 'ee yesterday , she presently suggested . 
O no I wouldn't have it for the world ! declared Tess proudly . 
And letting everybody know the reason such a thing to be ashamed of ! I think I could go if Abraham could go with me to kip me company . 
Her mother at length agreed to this arrangement . 
Little Abraham was aroused from his deep sleep in a corner of the same apartment , and made to put on his clothes while still mentally in the other world . 
Meanwhile Tess had hastily dressed herself and the twain , lighting a lantern , went out to the stable . 
The rickety little waggon was already laden , and the girl led out the horse Prince , only a degree less rickety than the vehicle . 
When they had passed the little town of Stourcastle , dumbly somnolent under its thick brown thatch , they reached higher ground . 
Still higher , on their left , the elevation called Bulbarrow or Bealbarrow , well nigh the highest in South Wessex , swelled into the sky , engirdled by its earthen trenches . 
From hereabout the long road was fairly level for some distance onward . 
They mounted in front of the waggon , and Abraham grew reflective . 
Tess ! he said in a preparatory tone , after a silence . 
Bain't you glad that we've become gentlefolk ? Not particular glad . 
But you be glad that you 'm going to marry a gentleman ? What ? said Tess , lifting her face . 
That our great relation will help 'ee to marry a gentleman . 
I ? Our great relation ? We have no such relation . 
What has put that into your head ? I heard 'em talking about it up at Rolliver's when I went to find father . 
There's a rich lady of our family out at Trantridge , and mother said that if you claimed kin with the lady , she'd put 'ee in the way of marrying a gentleman . 
His sister became abruptly still , and lapsed into a pondering silence . 
Abraham talked on , rather for the pleasure of utterance than for audition , so that his sister's abstraction was of no account . 
He asked how far away those twinklers were , and whether God was on the other side of them . 
But ever and anon his childish prattle recurred to what impressed his imagination even more deeply than the wonders of creation . 
Never mind that now ! she exclaimed . 
Did you say the stars were worlds , Tess ? Yes . 
All like ours ? I don't know but I think so . 
They sometimes seem to be like the apples on our stubbard tree . 
Most of them splendid and sound a few blighted . 
Which do we live on a splendid one or a blighted one ? A blighted one . 
'Tis very unlucky that we didn't pitch on a sound one , when there were so many more of 'em ! Yes . 
Is it like that REALLY , Tess ? said Abraham , turning to her much impressed , on reconsideration of this rare information . 
Prince required but slight attention , lacking energy for superfluous movements of any sort . 
With no longer a companion to distract her , Tess fell more deeply into reverie than ever , her back leaning against the hives . 
Everything grew more and more extravagant , and she no longer knew how time passed . 
A sudden jerk shook her in her seat , and Tess awoke from the sleep into which she , too , had fallen . 
They were a long way further on than when she had lost consciousness , and the waggon had stopped . 
The harness was entangled with an object which blocked the way . 
In consternation Tess jumped down , and discovered the dreadful truth . 
The groan has proceeded from her father's poor horse Prince . 
The morning mail cart , with its two noiseless wheels , speeding along these lanes like an arrow , as it always did , had driven into her slow and unlighted equipage . 
In her despair Tess sprang forward and put her hand upon the hole , with the only result that she became splashed from face to skirt with the crimson drops . 
Then she stood helplessly looking on . 
Prince also stood firm and motionless as long as he could till he suddenly sank down in a heap . 
By this time the mail cart man had joined her , and began dragging and unharnessing the hot form of Prince . 
But he was already dead , and , seeing that nothing more could be done immediately , the mail cart man returned to his own animal , which was uninjured . 
You was on the wrong side , he said . 
I am bound to go on with the mail bags , so that the best thing for you to do is bide here with your load . 
I'll send somebody to help you as soon as I can . 
It is getting daylight , and you have nothing to fear . 
He mounted and sped on his way while Tess stood and waited . 
The atmosphere turned pale , the birds shook themselves in the hedges , arose , and twittered the lane showed all its white features , and Tess showed hers , still whiter . 
The huge pool of blood in front of her was already assuming the iridescence of coagulation and when the sun rose a hundred prismatic hues were reflected from it . 
Prince lay alongside still and stark his eyes half open , the hole in his chest looking scarcely large enough to have let out all that had animated him . 
'Tis all my doing all mine ! the girl cried , gazing at the spectacle . 
No excuse for me none . 
What will mother and father live on now ? Aby , Aby ! She shook the child , who had slept soundly through the whole disaster . 
We can't go on with our load Prince is killed ! When Abraham realized all , the furrows of fifty years were extemporized on his young face . 
Why , I danced and laughed only yesterday ! she went on to herself . 
In silence they waited through an interval which seemed endless . 
At length a sound , and an approaching object , proved to them that the driver of the mail car had been as good as his word . 
A farmer's man from near Stourcastle came up , leading a strong cob . 
He was harnessed to the waggon of beehives in the place of Prince , and the load taken on towards Casterbridge . 
The evening of the same day saw the empty waggon reach again the spot of the accident . 
Tess had gone back earlier . 
How to break the news was more than she could think . 
In the Durbeyfield countenances there was nothing of the red wrath that would have burnt upon the girl from parents more ambitious for her welfare . 
Nobody blamed Tess as she blamed herself . 
When it was discovered that the knacker and tanner would give only a very few shillings for Prince's carcase because of his decrepitude , Durbeyfield rose to the occasion . 
No , said he stoically , I won't sell his old body . 
When we d'Urbervilles was knights in the land , we didn't sell our chargers for cat's meat . 
Let 'em keep their shillings . 
He've served me well in his lifetime , and I won't part from him now . 
He worked harder the next day in digging a grave for Prince in the garden than he had worked for months to grow a crop for his family . 
When the hole was ready , Durbeyfield and his wife tied a rope round the horse and dragged him up the path towards it , the children following in funeral train . 
Abraham and 'Liza Lu sobbed , Hope and Modest discharged their griefs in loud blares which echoed from the walls and when Prince was tumbled in they gathered round the grave . 
The bread winner had been taken away from them what would they do ? Is he gone to heaven ? asked Abraham , between the sobs . 
Then Durbeyfield began to shovel in the earth , and the children cried anew . 
Her face was dry and pale , as though she regarded herself in the light of a murderess . 
V The haggling business , which had mainly depended on the horse , became disorganized forthwith . 
Distress , if not penury , loomed in the distance . 
We must take the ups wi' the downs , Tess , said she and never could your high blood have been found out at a more called for moment . 
You must try your friends . 
I shouldn't care to do that , says Tess . 
If there is such a lady , 'twould be enough for us if she were friendly not to expect her to give us help . 
You could win her round to do anything , my dear . 
Besides , perhaps there's more in it than you know of . 
I've heard what I've heard , good now . 
Her mother might have made inquiries , and have discovered that this Mrs d'Urberville was a lady of unequalled virtues and charity . 
But Tess's pride made the part of poor relation one of particular distaste to her . 
I'd rather try to get work , she murmured . 
Durbeyfield , you can settle it , said his wife , turning to where he sat in the background . 
If you say she ought to go , she will go . 
I don't like my children going and making themselves beholden to strange kin , murmured he . 
I'm the head of the noblest branch o' the family , and I ought to live up to it . 
His reasons for staying away were worse to Tess than her own objections to going . 
Well , as I killed the horse , mother , she said mournfully , I suppose I ought to do something . 
I don't mind going and seeing her , but you must leave it to me about asking for help . 
And don't go thinking about her making a match for me it is silly . 
Very well said , Tess ! observed her father sententiously . 
Who said I had such a thought ? asked Joan . 
I fancy it is in your mind , mother . 
Tess Durbeyfield's route on this memorable morning lay amid the north eastern undulations of the Vale in which she had been born , and in which her life had unfolded . 
The Vale of Blackmoor was to her the world , and its inhabitants the races thereof . 
She had hardly ever visited the place , only a small tract even of the Vale and its environs being known to her by close inspection . 
Much less had she been far outside the valley . 
Her mother's intelligence was that of a happy child Joan Durbeyfield was simply an additional one , and that not the eldest , to her own long family of waiters on Providence . 
In this instance it must be admitted that the Durbeyfields were putting their fairest side outward . 
The crimson brick lodge came first in sight , up to its eaves in dense evergreens . 
It was of recent erection indeed almost new and of the same rich red colour that formed such a contrast with the evergreens of the lodge . 
All this sylvan antiquity , however , though visible from The Slopes , was outside the immediate boundaries of the estate . 
Everything on this snug property was bright , thriving , and well kept acres of glass houses stretched down the inclines to the copses at their feet . 
Everything looked like money like the last coin issued from the Mint . 
The stables , partly screened by Austrian pines and evergreen oaks , and fitted with every late appliance , were as dignified as Chapels of Ease . 
On the extensive lawn stood an ornamental tent , its door being towards her . 
Simple Tess Durbeyfield stood at gaze , in a half alarmed attitude , on the edge of the gravel sweep . 
Her feet had brought her onward to this point before she had quite realized where she was and now all was contrary to her expectation . 
I thought we were an old family but this is all new ! she said , in her artlessness . 
She wished that she had not fallen in so readily with her mother's plans for claiming kin , and had endeavoured to gain assistance nearer home . 
The d'Urbervilles or Stoke d'Urbervilles , as they at first called themselves who owned all this , were a somewhat unusual family to find in such an old fashioned part of the country . 
Yet it must be admitted that this family formed a very good stock whereon to regraft a name which sadly wanted such renovation . 
It was that of a tall young man , smoking . 
Despite the touches of barbarism in his contours , there was a singular force in the gentleman's face , and in his bold rolling eye . 
Well , my Beauty , what can I do for you ? said he , coming forward . 
And perceiving that she stood quite confounded Never mind me . 
Have you come to see me or my mother ? This embodiment of a d'Urberville and a namesake differed even more from what Tess had expected than the house and grounds had differed . 
She had dreamed of an aged and dignified face , the sublimation of all the d'Urberville lineaments , furrowed with incarnate memories representing in hieroglyphic the centuries of her family's and England's history . 
But she screwed herself up to the work in hand , since she could not get out of it , and answered I came to see your mother , sir . 
I am afraid you cannot see her she is an invalid , replied thepresent representative of the spurious house for this was Mr Alec , the only son of the lately deceased gentleman . 
Cannot I answer your purpose ? What is the business you wish to see her about ? It isn't business it is I can hardly say what ! Pleasure ? Oh no . 
It is so very foolish , she stammered I fear can't tell you ! Never mind I like foolish things . 
Try again , my dear , said he kindly . 
Mother asked me to come , Tess continued and , indeed , I was in the mind to do so myself likewise . 
But I did not think it would be like this . 
I came , sir , to tell you that we are of the same family as you . 
Ho ! Poor relations ? Yes . 
Ay , ay I mean d'Urbervilles . 
Our names are worn away to Durbeyfield but we have several proofs that we are d'Urbervilles . 
Antiquarians hold we are , and and we have an old seal , marked with a ramping lion on a shield , and a castle over him . 
And we have a very old silver spoon , round in the bowl like a little ladle , and marked with the same castle . 
But it is so worn that mother uses it to stir the pea soup . 
A castle argent is certainly my crest , said he blandly . 
And my arms a lion rampant . 
And so mother said we ought to make ourselves beknown to you as we've lost our horse by a bad accident , and are the oldest branch o' the family . 
Very kind of your mother , I'm sure . 
And I , for one , don't regret her step . 
Alec looked at Tess as he spoke , in a way that made her blush a little . 
And so , my pretty girl , you've come on a friendly visit to us , as relations ? I suppose I have , faltered Tess , looking uncomfortable again . 
Well there's no harm in it . 
It is a long while before he returns past Trantridge Cross . 
He conducted her about the lawns , and flower beds , and conservatories and thence to the fruit garden and greenhouses , where he asked her if she liked strawberries . 
Yes , said Tess , when they come . 
No no ! she said quickly , putting her fingers between his hand and her lips . 
I would rather take it in my own hand . 
Nonsense ! he insisted and in a slight distress she parted her lips and took it in . 
They had spent some time wandering desultorily thus , Tess eating in a half pleased , half reluctant state whatever d'Urberville offered her . 
Come here , and I'll see what grub I can find . 
Stoke d'Urberville took her back to the lawn and into the tent , where he left her , soon reappearing with a basket of light luncheon , which he put before her himself . 
It was evidently the gentleman's wish not to be disturbed in this pleasant TETE A TETE by the servantry . 
Do you mind my smoking ? he asked . 
Oh , not at all , sir . 
She had an attribute which amounted to a disadvantage just now and it was this that caused Alec d'Urberville's eyes to rivet themselves upon her . 
It was a luxuriance of aspect , a fulness of growth , which made her appear more of a woman than she really was . 
She had inherited the feature from her mother without the quality it denoted . 
It had troubled her mind occasionally , till her companions had said that it was a fault which time would cure . 
She soon had finished her lunch . 
Now I am going home , sir , she said , rising . 
And what do they call you ? he asked , as he accompanied her along the drive till they were out of sight of the house . 
Tess Durbeyfield , down at Marlott . 
And you say your people have lost their horse ? I killed him ! she answered , her eyes filling with tears as she gave particulars of Prince's death . 
And I don't know what to do for father on account of it ! I must think if I cannot do something . 
My mother must find a berth for you . 
But , Tess , no nonsense about 'd'Urberville' 'Durbeyfield' only , you know quite another name . 
I wish for no better , sir , said she with something of dignity . 
In the ill judged execution of the well judged plan of things the call seldom produces the comer , the man to love rarely coincides with the hour for loving . 
Out of which maladroit delay sprang anxieties , disappointments , shocks , catastrophes , and passing strange destinies . 
When d'Urberville got back to the tent he sat down astride on a chair reflecting , with a pleased gleam in his face . 
Then he broke into a loud laugh . 
She blushed , and said confusedly that the flowers had been given to her . 
When the passengers were not looking she stealthily removed the more prominent blooms from her hat and placed them in basket , where she covered them with her handkerchief . 
Then she fell to reflecting again , and in looking downwards a thorn of the rose remaining in her breast accidentally pricked her chin . 
Like all the cottagers in Blackmoor Vale , Tess was steeped in fancies and prefigurative superstitions she thought this an ill omen the first she had noticed that day . 
The van travelled only so far as Shaston , and there were several miles of pedestrian descent from that mountain town into the vale of Marlott . 
When she entered the house she perceived in a moment from her mother's triumphant manner that something had occurred in the interim . 
Her mother surveyed the girl up and down with arch approval , and went on banteringly So you've brought 'em round ! How do you know , mother ? I've had a letter . 
Tess then remembered that there would have been time for this . 
They say Mrs d'Urberville says that she wants you to look after a little fowl farm which is her hobby . 
But this is only her artful way of getting 'ee there without raising your hopes . 
She's going to own 'ee as kin that's the meaning o't . 
But I didn't see her . 
You zid somebody , I suppose ? I saw her son . 
And did he own 'ee ? Well he called me Coz . 
An' I knew it ! Jacky he called her Coz ! cried Joan to her husband . 
Well , he spoke to his mother , of course , and she do want 'ee there . 
But I don't know that I am apt at tending fowls , said the dubious Tess . 
Then I don't know who is apt . 
You've be'n born in the business , and brought up in it . 
They that be born in a business always know more about it than any 'prentice . 
Besides , that's only just a show of something for you to do , that you midn't feel beholden . 
I don't altogether think I ought to go , said Tess thoughtfully . 
Who wrote the letter ? Will you let me look at it ? Mrs d'Urberville wrote it . 
Oh that's all ! said Tess . 
You couldn't expect her to throw her arms round 'ee , an' to kiss and to coll 'ee all at once . 
Tess looked out of the window . 
I would rather stay here with father and you , she said . 
But why ? I'd rather not tell you why , mother indeed , I don't quite know why . 
A week afterwards she came in one evening from an unavailing search for some light occupation in the immediate neighbourhood . 
Her idea had been to get together sufficient money during the summer to purchase another horse . 
Mrs d'Urberville's son had called on horseback , having been riding by chance in the direction of Marlott . 
Mr d'Urberville says you must be a good girl if you are at all as you appear he knows you must be worth your weight in gold . 
He is very much interested in 'ee truth to tell . 
Tess seemed for the moment really pleased to hear that she had won such high opinion from a stranger when , in her own esteem , she had sunk so low . 
It is very good of him to think that , she murmured and if I was quite sure how it would be living there , I would go any when . 
He is a mighty handsome man ! I don't think so , said Tess coldly . 
Mother , why did our grand relation keep on putting his hand up to his mistarshers ? Hark at that child ! cried Mrs Durbeyfield , with parenthetic admiration . 
Perhaps to show his diamond ring , murmured Sir John , dreamily , from his chair . 
I'll think it over , said Tess , leaving the room . 
Well , she's made a conquest o' the younger branch of us , straight off , continued the matron to her husband , and she's a fool if she don't follow it up . 
I don't quite like my children going away from home , said the haggler . 
As the head of the family , the rest ought to come to me . 
But do let her go , Jacky , coaxed his poor witless wife . 
He's struck wi' her you can see that . 
He called her Coz ! He'll marry her , most likely , and make a lady of her and then she'll be what her forefathers was . 
John Durbeyfield had more conceit than energy or health , and this supposition was pleasant to him . 
Well , perhaps , that's what young Mr d'Urberville means , he admitted and sure enough he mid have serious thoughts about improving his blood by linking on to the old line . 
When she came in her mother pursued her advantage . 
Well , what be you going to do ? she asked . 
I wish I had seen Mrs d'Urberville , said Tess . 
I think you mid as well settle it . 
Then you'll see her soon enough . 
Her father coughed in his chair . 
I don't know what to say ! answered the girl restlessly . 
It is for you to decide . 
I killed the old horse , and I suppose I ought to do something to get ye a new one . 
as a species of dolorifuge after the death of the horse , began to cry at Tess's reluctance , and teased and reproached her for hesitating . 
Tess won't go o o and be made a la a dy of ! no , she says she wo o on't ! they wailed , with square mouths . 
Her father alone preserved an attitude of neutrality . 
I will go , said Tess at last . 
Her mother could not repress her consciousness of the nuptial Vision conjured up by the girl's consent . 
That's right ! For such a pretty maid as 'tis , this is a fine chance ! Tess smiled crossly . 
I hope it is a chance for earning money . 
It is no other kind of chance . 
You had better say nothing of that silly sort about parish . 
Mrs Durbeyfield did not promise . 
She was not quite sure that she did not feel proud enough , after the visitor's remarks , to say a good deal . 
Thus it was arranged and the young girl wrote , agreeing to be ready to set out on any day on which she might be required . 
Mrs d'Urberville's handwriting seemed rather masculine . 
A cart ? murmured Joan Durbeyfield doubtingly . 
She had hoped to be a teacher at the school , but the fates seemed to decide otherwise . 
Being mentally older than her mother she did not regard Mrs Durbeyfield's matrimonial hopes for her in a serious aspect for a moment . 
The light minded woman had been discovering good matches for her daughter almost from the year of her birth . 
She remained upstairs packing till breakfast time , and then came down in her ordinary week day clothes , her Sunday apparel being carefully folded in her box . 
You will never set out to see your folks without dressing up more the dand than that ? But I am going to work ! said Tess . 
Well , yes , said Mrs Durbeyfield and in a private tone , at first there mid be a little pretence o't . 
But I think it will be wiser of 'ee to put your best side outward , she added . 
Very well I suppose you know best , replied Tess with calm abandonment . 
And to please her parent the girl put herself quite in Joan's hands , saying serenely Do what you like with me , mother . 
Mrs Durbeyfield was only too delighted at this tractability . 
First she fetched a great basin , and washed Tess's hair with such thoroughness that when dried and brushed it looked twice as much as at other times . 
She tied it with a broader pink ribbon than usual . 
I declare there's a hole in my stocking heel ! said Tess . 
Never mind holes in your stockings they don't speak ! When I was a maid , so long as I had a pretty bonnet the devil might ha' found me in heels . 
Her mother's pride in the girl's appearance led her to step back , like a painter from his easel , and survey her work as a whole . 
You must zee yourself ! she cried . 
It is much better than you was t'other day . 
After this she went downstairs to her husband , who was sitting in the lower room . 
I'll tell 'ee what 'tis , Durbeyfield , said she exultingly he'll never have the heart not to love her . 
But whatever you do , don't zay too much to Tess of his fancy for her , and this chance she has got . 
She is such an odd maid that it mid zet her against him , or against going there , even now . 
Seeing their mother put on her bonnet the younger children clamoured to go with her . 
Goodbye , father , said Tess , with a lumpy throat . 
Goodbye , my maid , said Sir John , raising his head from his breast as he suspended his nap , induced by a slight excess this morning in honour of the occasion . 
Well , I hope my young friend will like such a comely sample of his own blood . 
And tell'n , Tess , that being sunk , quite , from our former grandeur , I'll sell him the title yes , sell it and at no onreasonable figure . 
Not for less than a thousand pound ! cried Lady Durbeyfield . 
Tell'n I'll take a thousand pound . 
Well , I'll take less , when I come to think o't . 
He'll adorn it better than a poor lammicken feller like myself can . 
Tell'n he shall hae it for a hundred . 
But I won't stand upon trifles tell'n he shall hae it for fifty for twenty pound ! Yes , twenty pound that's the lowest . 
She turned quickly , and went out . 
Far away behind the first hills the cliff like dwellings of Shaston broke the line of the ridge . 
Bide here a bit , and the cart will soon come , no doubt , said Mrs Durbeyfield . 
Yes , I see it yonder ! It had come appearing suddenly from behind the forehead of the nearest upland , and stopping beside the boy with the barrow . 
Her mother and the children thereupon decided to go no farther , and bidding them a hasty goodbye Tess bent her steps up the hill . 
They saw her white shape draw near to the spring cart , on which her box was already placed . 
Mrs Durbeyfield clapped her hands like a child . 
Then she looked down , then stared again . 
Could she be deceived as to the meaning of this ? Is dat the gentleman kinsman who'll make Sissy a lady ? asked the youngest child . 
Meanwhile the muslined form of Tess could be seen standing still , undecided , beside this turn out , whose owner was talking to her . 
Her seeming indecision was , in fact , more than indecision it was misgiving . 
She would have preferred the humble cart . 
The young man dismounted , and appeared to urge her to ascend . 
She turned her face down the hill to her relatives , and regarded the little group . 
Something seemed to quicken her to a determination possibly the thought that she had killed Prince . 
She suddenly stepped up he mounted beside her , and immediately whipped on the horse . 
In a moment they had passed the slow cart with the box , and disappeared behind the shoulder of the hill . 
Directly Tess was out of sight , and the interest of the matter as a drama was at an end , the little ones' eyes filled with tears . 
The youngest child said , I wish poor , poor Tess wasn't gone away to be a lady ! and , lowering the corners of his lips , burst out crying . 
The new point of view was infectious , and the next child did likewise , and then the next , till the whole three of them wailed loud . 
There were tears also in Joan Durbeyfield's eyes as she turned to go home . 
But by the time she had got back to the village she was passively trusting to the favour of accident . 
However , in bed that night she sighed , and her husband asked her what was the matter . 
Oh , I don't know exactly , she said . 
I was thinking that perhaps it would ha' been better if Tess had not gone . 
Yes , you ought , perhaps , to ha' done that , snored Sir John . 
Joan Durbeyfield always managed to find consolation somewhere Well , as one of the genuine stock , she ought to make her way with 'en , if she plays her trump card aright . 
And if he don't marry her afore he will after . 
For that he's all afire wi' love for her any eye can see . 
What's her trump card ? Her d'Urberville blood , you mean ? No , stupid her face as 'twas mine . 
Thus they reached the verge of an incline down which the road stretched in a long straight descent of nearly a mile . 
Ever since the accident with her father's horse Tess Durbeyfield , courageous as she naturally was , had been exceedingly timid on wheels the least irregularity of motion startled her . 
She began to get uneasy at a certain recklessness in her conductor's driving . 
You will go down slow , sir , I suppose ? she said with attempted unconcern . 
D'Urberville looked round upon her , nipped his cigar with the tips of his large white centre teeth , and allowed his lips to smile slowly of themselves . 
There's nothing like it for raising your spirits . 
But perhaps you need not now ? Ah , he said , shaking his head , there are two to be reckoned with . 
It is not me alone . 
Tib had to be considered , and she has a very queer temper . 
Who ? Why , this mare . 
I fancy she looked round at me in a very grim way just then . 
Didn't you notice it ? Don't try to frighten me , sir , said Tess stiffly . 
If any living man can manage this horse I can I won't say any living man can do it but if such has the power , I am he . 
Why do you have such a horse ? Ah , well may you ask it ! It was my fate , I suppose . 
Tib has killed one chap and just after I bought her she nearly killed me . 
And then , take my word for it , I nearly killed her . 
But she's touchy still , very touchy and one's life is hardly safe behind her sometimes . 
, knew so well the reckless performance expected of her that she hardly required a hint from behind . 
The aspect of the straight road enlarged with their advance , the two banks dividing like a splitting stick one rushing past at each shoulder . 
The wind blew through Tess's white muslin to her very skin , and her washed hair flew out behind . 
She was determined to show no open fear , but she clutched d'Urberville's rein arm . 
Don't touch my arm ! We shall be thrown out if you do ! Hold on round my waist ! She grasped his waist , and so they reached the bottom . 
Safe , thank God , in spite of your fooling ! said she , her face on fire . 
Tess fie ! that's temper ! said d'Urberville . 
Well , you need not let go your hold of me so thanklessly the moment you feel yourself our of danger . 
She had not considered what she had been doing whether he were man or woman , stick or stone , in her involuntary hold on him . 
Recovering her reserve she sat without replying , and thus they reached the summit of another declivity . 
Now then , again ! said d'Urberville . 
No , no ! said Tess . 
Show more sense , do , please . 
But when people find themselves on one of the highest points in the county , they must get down again , he retorted . 
He loosened rein , and away they went a second time . 
Never ! said Tess independently , holding on as well as she could without touching him . 
Will nothing else do ? she cried at length , in desperation , her large eyes staring at him like those of a wild animal . 
This dressing her up so prettily by her mother had apparently been to lamentable purpose . 
Nothing , dear Tess , he replied . 
Oh , I don't know very well I don't mind ! she panted miserably . 
His arms being occupied with the reins there was left him no power to prevent her manoeuvre . 
Now , damn it I'll break both our necks ! swore her capriciously passionate companion . 
And I wouldn't ha' come if I had known ! He was inexorable , and she sat still , and d'Urberville gave her the kiss of mastery . 
No sooner had he done so than she flushed with shame , took out her handkerchief , and wiped the spot on her cheek that had been touched by his lips . 
His ardour was nettled at the sight , for the act on her part had been unconsciously done . 
You are mighty sensitive for a cottage girl ! said the young man . 
She had , in fact , undone the kiss , as far as such a thing was physically possible . 
You shall be made sorry for that ! he resumed , his injured tone still remaining , as he flourished the whip anew . 
Unless , that is , you agree willingly to let me do it again , and no handkerchief . 
Very well , sir ! she said . 
Oh let me get my hat ! At the moment of speaking her hat had blown off into the road , their present speed on the upland being by no means slow . 
D'Urberville pulled up , and said he would get it for her , but Tess was down on the other side . 
She turned back and picked up the article . 
You look prettier with it off , upon my soul , if that's possible , he said , contemplating her over the back of the vehicle . 
Now then , up again ! What's the matter ? The hat was in place and tied , but Tess had not stepped forward . 
'Tis five or six miles yet to Trantridge . 
I don't care if 'tis dozens . 
Besides , the cart is behind . 
You artful hussy ! Now , tell me didn't you make that hat blow off on purpose ? I'll swear you did ! Her strategic silence confirmed his suspicion . 
Then d'Urberville cursed and swore at her , and called her everything he could think of for the trick . 
Turning the horse suddenly he tried to drive back upon her , and so hem her in between the gig and the hedge . 
But he could not do this short of injuring her . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself for using such wicked words ! cried Tess with spirit , from the top of the hedge into which she had scrambled . 
Well , I like you all the better , he said . 
Come , let there be peace . 
I'll never do it any more against your will . 
My life upon it now ! Still Tess could not be induced to remount . 
She did not , however , object to his keeping his gig alongside her and in this manner , at a slow pace , they advanced towards the village of Trantridge . 
From time to time d'Urberville exhibited a sort of fierce distress at the sight of the tramping he had driven her to undertake by his misdemeanour . 
Her resolve , however , had been taken , and it seemed vacillating even to childishness to abandon it now , unless for graver reasons . 
The house was overrun with ivy , its chimney being enlarged by the boughs of the parasite to the aspect of a ruined tower . 
'Twas good enough for Christians in grandfather's time , they said . 
The rooms wherein dozens of infants had wailed at their nursing now resounded with the tapping of nascent chicks . 
Distracted hens in coops occupied spots where formerly stood chairs supporting sedate agriculturists . 
The garden in which the cottage stood was surrounded by a wall , and could only be entered through a door . 
She had come from the manor house . 
Mrs d'Urberville wants the fowls as usual , she said but perceiving that Tess did not quite understand , she explained , Mis'ess is a old lady , and blind . 
Tess walked up to this lady with her feathered charges one sitting on each arm . 
Ah , you are the young woman come to look after my birds ? said Mrs d'Urberville , recognizing a new footstep . 
I hope you will be kind to them . 
My bailiff tells me you are quite the proper person . 
And Phena too yes , they are a little frightened aren't you , dears ? But they will soon get used to you . 
Her touch enabled her to recognize them in a moment , and to discover if a single feather were crippled or draggled . 
She handled their crops , and knew what they had eaten , and if too little or too much her face enacting a vivid pantomime of the criticisms passing in her mind . 
At the end of the ceremony Mrs d'Urberville abruptly asked Tess , wrinkling and twitching her face into undulations , Can you whistle ? Whistle , Ma'am ? Yes , whistled tunes . 
Tess could whistle like most other country girls , though the accomplishment was one which she did not care to profess in genteel company . 
However , she blandly admitted that such was the fact . 
Then you will have to practise it every day . 
I had a lad who did it very well , but he has left . 
I want you to whistle to my bullfinches as I cannot see them I like to hear them , and we teach 'em airs that way . 
Tell her where the cages are , Elizabeth . 
You must begin tomorrow , or they will go back in their piping . 
They have been neglected these several days . 
Mr d'Urberville whistled to 'em this morning , ma'am , said Elizabeth . 
He ! Pooh ! The old lady's face creased into furrows of repugnance , and she made no further reply . 
Thus the reception of Tess by her fancied kinswoman terminated , and the birds were taken back to their quarters . 
The girl's surprise at Mrs d'Urberville's manner was not great for since seeing the size of the house she had expected no more . 
But she was far from being aware that the old lady had never heard a word of the so called kinship . 
She gathered that no great affection flowed between the blind woman and her son . 
But in that , too , she was mistaken . 
Mrs d'Urberville was not the first mother compelled to love her offspring resentfully , and to be bitterly fond . 
As soon as she was alone within the walled garden she sat herself down on a coop , and seriously screwed up her mouth for the long neglected practice . 
She found her former ability to have generated to the production of a hollow rush of wind through the lips , and no clear note at all . 
Looking that way she beheld a form springing from the coping to the plot . 
It was Alec d'Urberville , whom she had not set eyes on since he had conducted her the day before to the door of the gardener's cottage where she had lodgings . 
Upon my honour ! cried he , there was never before such a beautiful thing in Nature or Art as you look , 'Cousin' Tess . 
Why , you are quite cross because you can't do it . 
I may be cross , but I didn't swear . 
Ah ! I understand why you are trying those bullies ! My mother wants you to carry on their musical education . 
How selfish of her ! As if attending to these curst cocks and hens here were not enough work for any girl . 
I would flatly refuse , if I were you . 
But she wants me particularly to do it , and to be ready by tomorrow morning . 
Does she ? Well then I'll give you a lesson or two . 
Oh no , you won't ! said Tess , withdrawing towards the door . 
Nonsense I don't want to touch you . 
See I'll stand on this side of the wire netting , and you can keep on the other so you may feel quite safe . 
Now , look here you screw up your lips too harshly . 
He suited the action to the word , and whistled a line of Take , O take those lips away . 
But the allusion was lost upon Tess . 
Now try , said d'Urberville . 
She attempted to look reserved her face put on a sculptural severity . 
He encouraged her with Try again ! Tess was quite serious , painfully serious by this time and she tried ultimately and unexpectedly emitting a real round sound . 
The momentary pleasure of success got the better of her her eyes enlarged , and she involuntarily smiled in his face . 
That's it ! Now I have started you you'll go on beautifully . 
There I said I would not come near you and , in spite of such temptation as never before fell to mortal man , I'll keep my word . 
Tess , do you think my mother a queer old soul ? I don't know much of her yet , sir . 
You'll find her so she must be , to make you learn to whistle to her bullfinches . 
I am rather out of her books just now , but you will be quite in favour if you treat her live stock well . 
If you meet with any difficulties and want help here , don't go to the bailiff , come to me . 
It was in the economy of this REGIME that Tess Durbeyfield had undertaken to fill a place . 
Her first day's experiences were fairly typical of those which followed through many succeeding days . 
A far more satisfactory time than when she practised in the garden was this whistling by the cages each morning . 
Unrestrained by the young man's presence she threw up her mouth , put her lips near the bars , and piped away in easeful grace to the attentive listeners . 
Once while Tess was at the window where the cages were ranged , giving her lesson as usual , she thought she heard a rustling behind the bed . 
The old lady was not present , and turning round the girl had an impression that the toes of a pair of boots were visible below the fringe of the curtains . 
Thereupon her whistling became so disjointed that the listener , if such there were , must have discovered her suspicion of his presence . 
She searched the curtains every morning after that , but never found anybody within them . 
Alec d'Urberville had evidently thought better of his freak to terrify her by an ambush of that kind . 
X Every village has its idiosyncrasy , its constitution , often its own code of morality . 
The levity of some of the younger women in and about Trantridge was marked , and was perhaps symptomatic of the choice spirit who ruled The Slopes in that vicinity . 
The place had also a more abiding defect it drank hard . 
For a long time Tess did not join in the weekly pilgrimages . 
She went again and again . 
Tess's occupations made her late in setting out , so that her comrades reached the town long before her . 
Through this low lit mistiness Tess walked leisurely along . 
She did not discover the coincidence of the market with the fair till she had reached the place , by which time it was close upon dusk . 
Her limited marketing was soon completed and then as usual she began to look about for some of the Trantridge cottagers . 
He lived in an out of the way nook of the townlet , and in trying to find her course thither her eyes fell upon Mr d'Urberville standing at a street corner . 
What my Beauty ? You here so late ? he said . 
She told him that she was simply waiting for company homeward . 
I'll see you again , said he over her shoulder as she went on down the back lane . 
They coughed as they danced , and laughed as they coughed . 
The maids don't think it respectable to dance at The Flower de Luce , he explained . 
They don't like to let everybody see which be their fancy men . 
Besides , the house sometimes shuts up just when their jints begin to get greased . 
So we come here and send out for liquor . 
But when be any of you going home ? asked Tess with some anxiety . 
This is all but the last jig . 
The reel drew to a close , and some of the party were in the mind of starting . 
But others would not , and another dance was formed . 
This surely would end it , thought Tess . 
But it merged in yet another . 
Had she been near Marlott she would have had less dread . 
What's yer hurry ? Tomorrow is Sunday , thank God , and we can sleep it off in church time . 
Now , have a turn with me ? She did not abhor dancing , but she was not going to dance here . 
But it did not matter the panting shapes spun onwards . 
They did not vary their partners if their inclination were to stick to previous ones . 
Changing partners simply meant that a satisfactory choice had not as yet been arrived at by one or other of the pair , and by this time every couple had been suitable matched . 
Suddenly there was a dull thump on the ground a couple had fallen , and lay in a mixed heap . 
The next couple , unable to check its progress , came toppling over the obstacle . 
An inner cloud of dust rose around the prostrate figures amid the general one of the room , in which a twitching entanglement of arms and legs was discernible . 
A loud laugh from behind Tess's back , in the shade of the garden , united with the titter within the room . 
She looked round , and saw the red coal of a cigar Alec d'Urberville was standing there alone . 
He beckoned to her , and she reluctantly retreated towards him . 
But it seems they will never leave off , and I really think I will wait no longer . 
I have only a saddle horse here today but come to The Flower de Luce , and I'll hire a trap , and drive you home with me . 
Tess , though flattered , had never quite got over her original mistrust of him , and , despite their tardiness , she preferred to walk home with the work folk . 
So she answered that she was much obliged to him , but would not trouble him . 
I have said that I will wait for 'em , and they will expect me to now . 
Very well , Miss Independence . 
Then I shall not hurry . 
It was a three mile walk , along a dry white road , made whiter tonight by the light of the moon . 
Yet however terrestrial and lumpy their appearance just now to the mean unglamoured eye , to themselves the case was different . 
They were as sublime as the moon and stars above them , and the moon and stars were as ardent as they . 
Yet she stuck to the party , for reasons above given . 
In the open highway they had progressed in scattered order but now their route was through a field gate , and the foremost finding a difficulty in opening it they closed up together . 
This leading pedestrian was Car the Queen of Spades , who carried a wicker basket containing her mother's groceries , her own draperies , and other purchases for the week . 
Well whatever is that a creeping down thy back , Car Darch ? said one of the group suddenly . 
'Tis her hair falling down , said another . 
No it was not her hair it was a black stream of something oozing from her basket , and it glistened like a slimy snake in the cold still rays of the moon . 
'Tis treacle , said an observant matron . 
Car's poor old grandmother had a weakness for the sweet stuff . 
Honey she had in plenty out of her own hives , but treacle was what her soul desired , and Car had been about to give her a treat of surprise . 
Hastily lowering the basket the dark girl found that the vessel containing the syrup had been smashed within . 
The laughter rang louder they clung to the gate , to the posts , rested on their staves , in the weakness engendered by their convulsions at the spectacle of Car . 
Our heroine , who had hitherto held her peace , at this wild moment could not help joining in with the rest . 
It was a misfortune in more ways than one . 
No sooner did the dark queen hear the soberer richer note of Tess among those of the other work people than a long smouldering sense of rivalry inflamed her to madness . 
She sprang to her feet and closely faced the object of her dislike . 
How darest th' laugh at me , hussy ! she cried . 
I couldn't really help it when t'others did , apologized Tess , still tittering . 
She closed her fists and squared up at Tess . 
Several other women also chimed in , with an animus which none of them would have been so fatuous as to show but for the rollicking evening they had passed . 
Thereupon , finding Tess unfairly browbeaten , the husbands and lovers tried to make peace by defending her but the result of that attempt was directly to increase the war . 
Tess was indignant and ashamed . 
She no longer minded the loneliness of the way and the lateness of the hour her one object was to get away from the whole crew as soon as possible . 
She knew well enough that the better among them would repent of their passion next day . 
What the devil is all this row about , work folk ? he asked . 
The explanation was not readily forthcoming and , in truth , he did not require any . 
Having heard their voices while yet some way off he had ridden creepingly forward , and learnt enough to satisfy himself . 
Tess was standing apart from the rest , near the gate . 
He bent over towards her . 
The pair were speeding away into the distant gray by the time that the contentious revellers became aware of what had happened . 
What be ye looking at ? asked a man who had not observed the incident . 
Ho ho ho ! laughed dark Car . 
Hee hee hee ! laughed the tippling bride , as she steadied herself on the arm of her fond husband . 
XI The twain cantered along for some time without speech , Tess as she clung to him still panting in her triumph , yet in other respects dubious . 
She begged him to slow the animal to a walk which Alec accordingly did . 
Neatly done , was it not , dear Tess ? he said by and by . 
I am sure I ought to be much obliged to you . 
And are you ? She did not reply . 
Tess , why do you always dislike my kissing you ? I suppose because I don't love you . 
You are quite sure ? I am angry with you sometimes ! Ah , I half feared as much . 
Nevertheless , Alec did not object to that confession . 
He knew that anything was better then frigidity . 
Why haven't you told me when I have made you angry ? You know very well why . 
Because I cannot help myself here . 
I haven't offended you often by love making ? You have sometimes . 
How many times ? You know as well as I too many times . 
It seemed to hold the moonlight in suspension , rendering it more pervasive than in clear air . 
Only once , however , was she overcome by actual drowsiness . 
In that moment of oblivion her head sank gently against him . 
D'Urberville stopped the horse , withdrew his feet from the stirrups , turned sideways on the saddle , and enclosed her waist with his arm to support her . 
This immediately put her on the defensive , and with one of those sudden impulses of reprisal to which she was liable she gave him a little push from her . 
In his ticklish position he nearly lost his balance and only just avoided rolling over into the road , the horse , though a powerful one , being fortunately the quietest he rode . 
That is devilish unkind ! he said . 
I mean no harm only to keep you from falling . 
She pondered suspiciously till , thinking that this might after all be true , she relented , and said quite humbly , I beg your pardon , sir . 
I won't pardon you unless you show some confidence in me . 
We know each other well and you know that I love you , and think you the prettiest girl in the world , which you are . 
Why , where be we ? she exclaimed . 
A wood what wood ? Surely we are quite out of the road ? A bit of The Chase the oldest wood in England . 
You cannot walk home , darling , even if the air were clear . 
We are miles away from Trantridge , if I must tell you , and in this growing fog you might wander for hours among these trees . 
Never mind that , she coaxed . 
Put me down , I beg you . 
I don't mind where it is only let me get down , sir , please ! Very well , then , I will on one condition . 
Having brought you here to this out of the way place , I feel myself responsible for your safe conduct home , whatever you may yourself feel about it . 
When I come back I'll give you full directions , and if you insist upon walking you may or you may ride at your pleasure . 
She accepted these terms , and slid off on the near side , though not till he had stolen a cursory kiss . 
He sprang down on the other side . 
I suppose I must hold the horse ? said she . 
Oh no it's not necessary , replied Alec , patting the panting creature . 
He's had enough of it for tonight . 
He turned the horse's head into the bushes , hitched him on to a bough , and made a sort of couch or nest for her in the deep mass of dead leaves . 
Now , you sit there , he said . 
The leaves have not got damp as yet . 
Just give an eye to the horse it will be quite sufficient . 
He took a few steps away from her , but , returning , said , By the bye , Tess , your father has a new cob today . 
Somebody gave it to him . 
Somebody ? You ! D'Urberville nodded . 
O how very good of you that is ! she exclaimed , with a painful sense of the awkwardness of having to thank him just then . 
And the children have some toys . 
I didn't know you ever sent them anything ! she murmured , much moved . 
I almost wish you had not yes , I almost with it ! Why , dear ? It hampers me so . 
Tessy don't you love me ever so little now ? I'm grateful , she reluctantly admitted . 
Don't cry , dear , dear one ! Now sit down here , and wait till I come . 
She passively sat down amid the leaves he had heaped , and shivered slightly . 
Are you cold ? he asked . 
He touched her with his fingers , which sank into her as into down . 
You have only that puffy muslin dress on how's that ? It's my best summer one . 
'Twas very warm when I started , and I didn't know I was going to ride , and that it would be night . 
Nights grow chilly in September . 
He pulled off a light overcoat that he had worn , and put it round her tenderly . 
That's it now you'll feel warmer , he continued . 
Now , my pretty , rest there I shall soon be back again . 
Having buttoned the overcoat round her shoulders he plunged into the webs of vapour which by this time formed veils between the trees . 
She could hear the rustling of the branches as he ascended the adjoining slope , till his movements were no louder than the hopping of a bird , and finally died away . 
With the setting of the moon the pale light lessened , and Tess became invisible as she fell into reverie upon the leaves where he had left her . 
In the meantime Alec d'Urberville had pushed on up the slope to clear his genuine doubt as to the quarter of The Chase they were in . 
A little rest for the jaded animal being desirable , he did not hasten his search for landmarks . 
A clamber over the hill into the adjoining vale brought him to the fence of a highway whose contours he recognized , which settled the question of their whereabouts . 
Roaming up and down , round and round , he at length heard a slight movement of the horse close at hand and the sleeve of his overcoat unexpectedly caught his foot . 
The obscurity was now so great that he could see absolutely nothing but a pale nebulousness at his feet , which represented the white muslin figure he had left upon the dead leaves . 
Everything else was blackness alike . 
D'Urberville stooped and heard a gentle regular breathing . 
He knelt and bent lower , till her breath warmed his face , and in a moment his cheek was in contact with hers . 
She was sleeping soundly , and upon her eyelashes there lingered tears . 
Darkness and silence ruled everywhere around . 
Above them rose the primeval yews and oaks of The Chase , in which there poised gentle roosting birds in their last nap and about them stole the hopping rabbits and hares . 
One may , indeed , admit the possibility of a retribution lurking in the present catastrophe . 
Doubtless some of Tess d'Urberville's mailed ancestors rollicking home from a fray had dealt the same measure even more ruthlessly towards peasant girls of their time . 
As Tess's own people down in those retreats are never tired of saying among each other in their fatalistic way It was to be . 
There lay the pity of it . 
An immeasurable social chasm was to divide our heroine's personality thereafter from that previous self of hers who stepped from her mother's door to try her fortune at Trantridge poultry farm . 
Occasionally she stopped to rest in a mechanical way by some gate or post and then , giving the baggage another hitch upon her full round arm , went steadily on again . 
It was a Sunday morning in late October , about four months after Tess Durbeyfield's arrival at Trantridge , and some few weeks subsequent to the night ride in The Chase . 
The ascent was gradual on this side , and the soil and scenery differed much from those within Blackmore Vale . 
The incline was the same down which d'Urberville had driven her so wildly on that day in June . 
Tess went up the remainder of its length without stopping , and on reaching the edge of the escarpment gazed over the familiar green world beyond , now half veiled in mist . 
Verily another girl than the simple one she had been at home was she who , bowed by thought , stood still here , and turned to look behind her . 
She could not bear to look forward into the Vale . 
She obeyed the signal to wait for him with unspeculative repose , and in a few minutes man and horse stopped beside her . 
Just look at the mare . 
Why go off like this ? You know that nobody wished to hinder your going . 
I shan't come back , said she . 
I thought you wouldn't I said so ! Well , then , put up your basket , and let me help you on . 
She listlessly placed her basket and bundle within the dog cart , and stepped up , and they sat side by side . 
She had no fear of him now , and in the cause of her confidence her sorrow lay . 
D'Urberville mechanically lit a cigar , and the journey was continued with broken unemotional conversation on the commonplace objects by the wayside . 
He had quite forgotten his struggle to kiss her when , in the early summer , they had driven in the opposite direction along the same road . 
But she had not , and she sat now , like a puppet , replying to his remarks in monosyllables . 
After some miles they came in view of the clump of trees beyond which the village of Marlott stood . 
It was only then that her still face showed the least emotion , a tear or two beginning to trickle down . 
What are you crying for ? he coldly asked . 
I was only thinking that I was born over there , murmured Tess . 
Well we must all be born somewhere . 
I wish I had never been born there or anywhere else ! Pooh ! Well , if you didn't wish to come to Trantridge why did you come ? She did not reply . 
You didn't come for love of me , that I'll swear . 
My eyes were dazed by you for a little , and that was all . 
She resumed I didn't understand your meaning till it was too late . 
That s what every woman says . 
I did wrong I admit it . 
He dropped into some little bitterness as he continued Only you needn't be so everlastingly flinging it in my face . 
I am ready to pay to the uttermost farthing . 
You know you need not work in the fields or the dairies again . 
You know you may clothe yourself with the best , instead of in the bald plain way you have lately affected , as if you couldn't get a ribbon more than you earn . 
Her lip lifted slightly , though there was little scorn , as a rule , in her large and impulsive nature . 
I suppose I am a bad fellow a damn bad fellow . 
I was born bad , and I have lived bad , and I shall die bad in all probability . 
But , upon my lost soul , I won't be bad towards you again , Tess . 
I may not be at Trantridge I am going to London for a time I can't stand the old woman . 
But all letters will be forwarded . 
She said that she did not wish him to drive her further , and they stopped just under the clump of trees . 
D'Urberville alighted , and lifted her down bodily in his arms , afterwards placing her articles on the ground beside her . 
She bowed to him slightly , her eye just lingering in his and then she turned to take the parcels for departure . 
Alec d'Urberville removed his cigar , bent towards her , and said You are not going to turn away like that , dear ! Come ! If you wish , she answered indifferently . 
Her eyes vaguely rested upon the remotest trees in the lane while the kiss was given , as though she were nearly unconscious of what he did . 
Now the other side , for old acquaintance' sake . 
You don't give me your mouth and kiss me back . 
You never willingly do that you'll never love me , I fear . 
I have said so , often . 
I have never really and truly loved you , and I think I never can . 
If I did love you I may have the best o' causes for letting you know it . 
He emitted a laboured breath , as if the scene were getting rather oppressive to his heart , or to his conscience , or to his gentility . 
Well , you are absurdly melancholy , Tess . 
I have no reason for flattering you now , and I can say plainly that you need not be so sad . 
You can hold your own for beauty against any woman of these parts , gentle or simple I say it to you as a practical man and well wisher . 
If you are wise you will show it to the world more than you do before it fades . 
Then good morning , my four months' cousin goodbye ! He leapt up lightly , arranged the reins , and was gone between the tall red berried hedges . 
Tess did not look after him , but slowly wound along the crooked lane . 
There was not a human soul near . 
Sad October and her sadder self seemed the only two existences haunting that lane . 
He appeared to be an artisan of some sort , and carried a tin pot of red paint in his hand . 
He asked in a business like manner if he should take her basket , which she permitted him to do , walking beside him . 
It is early to be astir this Sabbath morn ! he said cheerfully . 
When most people are at rest from their week's work . 
She also assented to this . 
Though I do more real work today than all the week besides . 
Do you ? All the week I work for the glory of man , and on Sunday for the glory of God . 
That's more real than the other hey ? I have a little to do here at this stile . 
The man turned as he spoke to an opening at the roadside leading into a pasture . 
If you'll wait a moment , he added , I shall not be long . 
As he had her basket she could not well do otherwise and she waited , observing him . 
Against the peaceful landscape , the pale , decaying tints of the copses , the blue air of the horizon and the lichened stileboards , these staring vermilion words shone forth . 
They seemed to shout themselves out and make the atmosphere ring . 
Some people might have cried Alas , poor Theology ! at the hideous defacement the last grotesque phase of a creed which had served mankind well in its time . 
But the words entered Tess with accusatory horror . 
It was as if this man had known her recent history yet he was a total stranger . 
Having finished his text he picked up her basket , and she mechanically resumed her walk beside him . 
Do you believe what you paint ? she asked in low tones . 
Believe that tex ? Do I believe in my own existence ! But , said she tremulously , suppose your sin was not of your own seeking ? He shook his head . 
I cannot split hairs on that burning query , he said . 
I have walked hundreds of miles this past summer , painting these texes on every wall , gate , and stile the length and breadth of this district . 
I leave their application to the hearts of the people who read 'em . 
I think they are horrible , said Tess . 
Crushing ! killing ! That's what they are meant to be ! he replied in a trade voice . 
But you should read my hottest ones them I kips for slums and seaports . 
They'd make ye wriggle ! Not but what this is a very good tex for rural districts . 
Ah there's a nice bit of blank wall up by that barn standing to waste . 
I must put one there one that it will be good for dangerous young females like yerself to heed . 
Will ye wait , missy ? No , said she and taking her basket Tess trudged on . 
A little way forward she turned her head . 
I'm not of his persuasion now , but he's a good man , and he'll expound as well as any parson I know . 
'Twas he began the work in me . 
But Tess did not answer she throbbingly resumed her walk , her eyes fixed on the ground . 
Pooh I don't believe God said such things ! she murmured contemptuously when her flush had died away . 
A plume of smoke soared up suddenly from her father's chimney , the sight of which made her heart ache . 
The aspect of the interior , when she reached it , made her heart ache more . 
Her mother , who had just come down stairs , turned to greet her from the fireplace , where she was kindling barked oak twigs under the breakfast kettle . 
The young children were still above , as was also her father , it being Sunday morning , when he felt justified in lying an additional half hour . 
Well ! my dear Tess ! exclaimed her surprised mother , jumping up and kissing the girl . 
How be ye ? I didn't see you till you was in upon me ! Have you come home to be married ? No , I have not come for that , mother . 
Then for a holiday ? Yes for a holiday for a long holiday , said Tess . 
What , isn't your cousin going to do the handsome thing ? He's not my cousin , and he's not going to marry me . 
Her mother eyed her narrowly . 
Come , you have not told me all , she said . 
Then Tess went up to her mother , put her face upon Joan's neck , and told . 
And yet th'st not got him to marry 'ee ! reiterated her mother . 
Any woman would have done it but you , after that ! Perhaps any woman would except me . 
It would have been something like a story to come back with , if you had ! continued Mrs Durbeyfield , ready to burst into tears of vexation . 
But if he's not , it must have been done because of his love for 'ee . 
And yet you've not got him to marry ! Get Alec d'Urberville in the mind to marry her ! He marry HER ! On matrimony he had never once said a word . 
And what if he had ? How a convulsive snatching at social salvation might have impelled her to answer him she could not say . 
But her poor foolish mother little knew her present feeling towards this man . 
Perhaps it was unusual in the circumstances , unlucky , unaccountable but there it was and this , as she had said , was what made her detest herself . 
She had never wholly cared for him , she did not at all care for him now . 
Hate him she did not quite but he was dust and ashes to her , and even for her name's sake she scarcely wished to marry him . 
How could I be expected to know ? I was a child when I left this house four months ago . 
Well , we must make the best of it , I suppose . 
, and sat round the room looking at her with great curiosity . 
Tess , who was reaching up to get the tea things from the corner cupboard , did not hear these commentaries . 
If she had heard them , she might soon have set her friends right on the matter . 
The marble hardness left her face , she moved with something of her old bounding step , and flushed in all her young beauty . 
Her depression was then terrible , and she could have hidden herself in a tomb . 
In the course of a few weeks Tess revived sufficiently to show herself so far as was necessary to get to church one Sunday morning . 
She liked to hear the chanting such as it was and the old Psalms , and to join in the Morning Hymn . 
The people who had turned their heads turned them again as the service proceeded and at last observing her they whispered to each other . 
She knew what their whispers were about , grew sick at heart , and felt that she could come to church no more . 
The bedroom which she shared with some of the children formed her retreat more continually than ever . 
Here , under her few square yards of thatch , she watched winds , and snows , and rains , gorgeous sunsets , and successive moons at their full . 
So close kept she that at length almost everybody thought she had gone away . 
The only exercise that Tess took at this time was after dark and it was then , when out in the woods , that she seemed least solitary . 
It is then that the plight of being alive becomes attenuated to its least possible dimensions . 
On these lonely hills and dales her quiescent glide was of a piece with the element she moved in . 
Her flexuous and stealthy figure became an integral part of the scene . 
At times her whimsical fancy would intensify natural processes around her till they seemed a part of her own story . 
Rather they became a part of it for the world is only a psychological phenomenon , and what they seemed they were . 
The midnight airs and gusts , moaning amongst the tightly wrapped buds and bark of the winter twigs , were formulae of bitter reproach . 
It was they that were out of harmony with the actual world , not she . 
But all the while she was making a distinction where there was no difference . 
Feeling herself in antagonism she was quite in accord . 
She had been made to break an accepted social law , but no law know to the environment in which she fancied herself such an anomaly . 
XIV It was a hazy sunrise in August . 
The sun , on account of the mist , had a curious sentient , personal look , demanding the masculine pronoun for its adequate expression . 
His present aspect , coupled with the lack of all human forms in the scene , explained the old time heliolatries in a moment . 
One could feel that a saner religion had never prevailed under the sky . 
But of all ruddy things that morning the brightest were two broad arms of painted wood , which rose from the margin of yellow cornfield hard by Marlott village . 
The paint with which they were smeared , intensified in hue by the sunlight , imparted to them a look of having been dipped in liquid fire . 
They disappeared from the lane between the two stone posts which flanked the nearest field gate . 
Presently there arose from within a ticking like the love making of the grasshopper . 
Along one side of the field the whole wain went , the arms of the mechanical reaper revolving slowly , till it passed down the hill quite out of sight . 
The narrow lane of stubble encompassing the field grew wider with each circuit , and the standing corn was reduced to smaller area as the morning wore on . 
This morning the eye returns involuntarily to the girl in the pink cotton jacket , she being the most flexuous and finely drawn figure of them all . 
Perhaps one reason why she seduces casual attention is that she never courts it , though the other women often gaze around them . 
Her binding proceeds with clock like monotony . 
From the sheaf last finished she draws a handful of ears , patting their tips with her left palm to bring them even . 
She brings the ends of the bond together , and kneels on the sheaf while she ties it , beating back her skirts now and then when lifted by the breeze . 
At intervals she stands up to rest , and to retie her disarranged apron , or to pull her bonnet straight . 
The cheeks are paler , the teeth more regular , the red lips thinner than is usual in a country bred girl . 
They went to breakfast , and came again , and the work proceeded as before . 
On the verge of the hour the heads of a group of children , of ages ranging from six to fourteen , rose over the stubbly convexity of the hill . 
The face of Tess flushed slightly , but still she did not pause . 
The harvesters ceased working , took their provisions , and sat down against one of the shocks . 
Here they fell to , the men plying a stone jar freely , and passing round a cup . 
Tess Durbeyfield had been one of the last to suspend her labours . 
She sat down at the end of the shock , her face turned somewhat away from her companions . 
But she did not accept his offer . 
Tess , with a curiously stealthy yet courageous movement , and with a still rising colour , unfastened her frock and began suckling the child . 
All the women but Tess fell into animated talk , and adjusted the disarranged knots of their hair . 
She'll soon leave off saying that , replied the one in buff . 
Lord , 'tis wonderful what a body can get used to o' that sort in time ! A little more than persuading had to do wi' the coming o't , I reckon . 
There were they that heard a sobbing one night last year in The Chase and it mid ha' gone hard wi' a certain party if folks had come along . 
Well , a little more , or a little less , 'twas a thousand pities that it should have happened to she , of all others . 
A resolution which had surprised herself had brought her into the fields this week for the first time during many months . 
After wearing and wasting her palpitating heart with every engine of regret that lonely inexperience could devise , commonsense had illuminated her . 
She felt that she would do well to be useful again to taste anew sweet independence at any price . 
The past was past whatever it had been it was no more at hand . 
Whatever its consequences , time would close over them they would all in a few years be as if they had never been , and she herself grassed down and forgotten . 
Meanwhile the trees were just as green as before the birds sang and the sun shone as clearly now as ever . 
The familiar surroundings had not darkened because of her grief , nor sickened because of her pain . 
She might have seen that what had bowed her head so profoundly the thought of the world's concern at her situation was founded on an illusion . 
She was not an existence , an experience , a passion , a structure of sensations , to anybody but herself . 
To all humankind besides Tess was only a passing thought . 
Even to friends she was no more than a frequently passing thought . 
If she made herself miserable the livelong night and day it was only this much to them Ah , she makes herself unhappy . 
Moreover , alone in a desert island would she have been wretched at what had happened to her ? Not greatly . 
Most of the misery had been generated by her conventional aspect , and not by her innate sensations . 
This was why she had borne herself with dignity , and had looked people calmly in the face at times , even when holding the baby in her arms . 
The harvest men rose from the shock of corn , and stretched their limbs , and extinguished their pipes . 
The horses , which had been unharnessed and fed , were again attached to the scarlet machine . 
In the afternoon and evening the proceedings of the morning were continued , Tess staying on till dusk with the body of harvesters . 
Their friendliness won her still farther away from herself , their lively spirits were contagious , and she became almost gay . 
But now that her moral sorrows were passing away a fresh one arose on the natural side of her which knew no social law . 
When she reached home it was to learn to her grief that the baby had been suddenly taken ill since the afternoon . 
Some such collapse had been probable , so tender and puny was its frame but the event came as a shock nevertheless . 
The baby's offence against society in coming into the world was forgotten by the girl mother her soul's desire was to continue that offence by preserving the life of the child . 
However , it soon grew clear that the hour of emancipation for that little prisoner of the flesh was to arrive earlier than her worst misgiving had conjectured . 
And when she had discovered this she was plunged into a misery which transcended that of the child's simple loss . 
Her baby had not been baptized . 
Like all village girls she was well grounded in the Holy Scriptures , and had dutifully studied the histories of Aholah and Aholibah , and knew the inferences to be drawn therefrom . 
But when the same question arose with regard to the baby , it had a very different colour . 
Her darling was about to die , and no salvation . 
It was nearly bedtime , but she rushed downstairs and asked if she might send for the parson . 
He locked the door and put the key in his pocket . 
The household went to bed , and , distressed beyond measure , Tess retired also . 
She was continually waking as she lay , and in the middle of the night found that the baby was still worse . 
It was obviously dying quietly and painlessly , but none the less surely . 
In her misery she rocked herself upon the bed . 
The clock struck the solemn hour of one , that hour when fancy stalks outside reason , and malignant possibilities stand rock firm as facts . 
The lurid presentment so powerfully affected her imagination in the silence of the sleeping house that her nightgown became damp with perspiration , and the bedstead shook with each throb of her heart . 
The infant's breathing grew more difficult , and the mother's mental tension increased . 
It was useless to devour the little thing with kisses she could stay in bed no longer , and walked feverishly about the room . 
O merciful God , have pity have pity upon my poor baby ! she cried . 
Her figure looked singularly tall and imposing as she stood in her long white nightgown , a thick cable of twisted dark hair hanging straight down her back to her waist . 
The most impressed of them said Be you really going to christen him , Tess ? The girl mother replied in a grave affirmative . 
She sprinkled the water , and there was silence . 
The tiny voices piped in obedient response Amen ! Tess went on We receive this child and so forth and do sign him with the sign of the Cross . 
The children gazed up at her with more and more reverence , and no longer had a will for questioning . 
She did not look like Sissy to them now , but as a being large , towering , and awful a divine personage with whom they had nothing in common . 
Poor Sorrow's campaign against sin , the world , and the devil was doomed to be of limited brilliancy luckily perhaps for himself , considering his beginnings . 
In the blue of the morning that fragile soldier and servant breathed his last , and when the other children awoke they cried bitterly , and begged Sissy to have another pretty baby . 
The calmness which had possessed Tess since the christening remained with her in the infant's loss . 
Tess , who mused on the christening a good deal , wondered if it were doctrinally sufficient to secure a Christian burial for the child . 
Nobody could tell this but the parson of the parish , and he was a new comer , and did not know her . 
She went to his house after dusk , and stood by the gate , but could not summon courage to go in . 
The enterprise would have been abandoned if she had not by accident met him coming homeward as she turned away . 
In the gloom she did not mind speaking freely . 
I should like to ask you something , sir . 
He expressed his willingness to listen , and she told the story of the baby's illness and the extemporized ordinance . 
The man and the ecclesiastic fought within him , and the victory fell to the man . 
My dear girl , he said , it will be just the same . 
Then will you give him a Christian burial ? she asked quickly . 
The Vicar felt himself cornered . 
Ah that's another matter , he said . 
Another matter why ? asked Tess , rather warmly . 
Well I would willingly do so if only we two were concerned . 
But I must not for certain reasons . 
Just for once , sir ! Really I must not . 
O sir ! She seized his hand as she spoke . 
He withdrew it , shaking his head . 
Then I don't like you ! she burst out , and I'll never come to your church no more ! Don't talk so rashly . 
Perhaps it will be just the same to him if you don't ? . 
Somewhat moved , he said in this case also It will be just the same . 
XV By experience , says Roger Ascham , we find out a short way by a long wandering . 
Not seldom that long wandering unfits us for further travel , and of what use is our experience to us then ? Tess Durbeyfield's experience was of this incapacitating kind . 
But it had not been in Tess's power nor is it in anybody's power to feel the whole truth of golden opinions while it is possible to profit by them . 
She and how many more might have ironically said to God with Saint Augustine Thou hast counselled a better course than Thou hast permitted . 
Apply to him she would not . 
But she would often clasp her hands behind her head and muse when she was supposed to be working hard . 
Of that day , doomed to be her terminus in time through all the ages , she did not know the place in month , week , season or year . 
Almost at a leap Tess thus changed from simple girl to complex woman . 
Symbols of reflectiveness passed into her face , and a note of tragedy at times into her voice . 
Her eyes grew larger and more eloquent . 
But for the world's opinion those experiences would have been simply a liberal education . 
She had held so aloof of late that her trouble , never generally known , was nearly forgotten in Marlott . 
At least she could not be comfortable there till long years should have obliterated her keen consciousness of it . 
Yet even now Tess felt the pulse of hopeful like still warm within her she might be happy in some nook which had no memories . 
To escape the past and all that appertained thereto was to annihilate it , and to do that she would have to get away . 
Was once lost always lost really true of chastity ? she would ask herself . 
She might prove it false if she could veil bygones . 
The recuperative power which pervaded organic nature was surely not denied to maidenhood alone . 
She waited a long time without finding opportunity for a new departure . 
It was not quite so far off as could have been wished but it was probably far enough , her radius of movement and repute having been so small . 
To persons of limited spheres , miles are as geographical degrees , parishes as counties , counties as provinces and kingdoms . 
On one point she was resolved there should be no more d'Urberville air castles in the dreams and deeds of her new life . 
She would be the dairymaid Tess , and nothing more . 
Her mother knew Tess's feeling on this point so well , though no words had passed between them on the subject , that she never alluded to the knightly ancestry now . 
All the while she wondered if any strange good thing might come of her being in her ancestral land and some spirit within her rose automatically as the sap in the twigs . 
It was unexpected youth , surging up anew after its temporary check , and bringing with it hope , and the invincible instinct towards self delight . 
On the curve of the nearest hill she looked back regretfully at Marlott and her father's house , although she had been so anxious to get away . 
In a few days the children would engage in their games as merrily as ever , without the sense of any gap left by her departure . 
This leaving of the younger children she had decided to be for the best were she to remain they would probably gain less good by her precepts than harm by her example . 
While waiting , however , there came along a farmer in his spring cart , driving approximately in the direction that she wished to pursue . 
Though he was a stranger to her she accepted his offer of a seat beside him , ignoring that its motive was a mere tribute to her countenance . 
He was going to Weatherbury , and by accompanying him thither she could walk the remainder of the distance instead of travelling in the van by way of Casterbridge . 
Tess did not stop at Weatherbury , after this long drive , further than to make a slight nondescript meal at noon at a cottage to which the farmer recommended her . 
Tess had never before visited this part of the country , and yet she felt akin to the landscape . 
Pooh I have as much of mother as father in me ! she said . 
All my prettiness comes from her , and she was only a dairymaid . 
It was intrinsically different from the Vale of Little Dairies , Blackmoor Vale , which , save during her disastrous sojourn at Trantridge , she had exclusively known till now . 
The world was drawn to a larger pattern here . 
The enclosures numbered fifty acres instead of ten , the farmsteads were more extended , the groups of cattle formed tribes hereabout there only families . 
These myriads of cows stretching under her eyes from the far east to the far west outnumbered any she had ever seen at one glance before . 
The green lea was speckled as thickly with them as a canvas by Van Alsloot or Sallaert with burghers . 
The bird's eye perspective before her was not so luxuriantly beautiful , perhaps , as that other one which she knew so well yet it was more cheering . 
It lacked the intensely blue atmosphere of the rival vale , and its heavy soils and scents the new air was clear , bracing , ethereal . 
The river itself , which nourished the grass and cows of these renowned dairies , flowed not like the streams in Blackmoor . 
Those were slow , silent , often turbid flowing over beds of mud into which the incautious wader might sink and vanish unawares . 
There the water flower was the lily the crowfoot here . 
Her hopes mingled with the sunshine in an ideal photosphere which surrounded her as she bounded along against the soft south wind . 
She heard a pleasant voice in every breeze , and in every bird's note seemed to lurk a joy . 
Her face had latterly changed with changing states of mind , continually fluctuating between beauty and ordinariness , according as the thoughts were gay or grave . 
One day she was pink and flawless another pale and tragical . 
When she was pink she was feeling less then when pale her more perfect beauty accorded with her less elevated mood her more intense mood with her less perfect beauty . 
It was her best face physically that was now set against the south wind . 
The irresistible , universal , automatic tendency to find sweet pleasure somewhere , which pervades all life , from the meanest to the highest , had at length mastered Tess . 
And thus her spirits , and her thankfulness , and her hopes , rose higher and higher . 
ye Green Things upon the Earth . 
ye Fowls of the Air . 
bless ye the Lord , praise Him and magnify Him for ever ! She suddenly stopped and murmured But perhaps I don't quite know the Lord as yet . 
However , Tess found at least approximate expression for her feelings in the old BENEDICITE that she had lisped from infancy and it was enough . 
Such high contentment with such a slight initial performance as that of having started towards a means of independent living was a part of the Durbeyfield temperament . 
Let the truth be told women do as a rule live through such humiliations , and regain their spirits , and again look about them with an interested eye . 
While there's life there's hope is a conviction not so entirely unknown to the betrayed as some amiable theorists would have us believe . 
Tess Durbeyfield , then , in good heart , and full of zest for life , descended the Egdon slopes lower and lower towards the dairy of her pilgrimage . 
The marked difference , in the final particular , between the rival vales now showed itself . 
The secret of Blackmoor was best discovered from the heights around to read aright the valley before her it was necessary to descend into its midst . 
When Tess had accomplished this feat she found herself to be standing on a carpeted level , which stretched to the east and west as far as the eye could reach . 
Tess followed slowly in their rear , and entered the barton by the open gate through which they had entered before her . 
They were the less restful cows that were stalled . 
Those of them that were spotted with white reflected the sunshine in dazzling brilliancy , and the polished brass knobs of their horns glittered with something of military display . 
Each girl sat down on her three legged stool , her face sideways , her right cheek resting against the cow and looked musingly along the animal's flank at Tess as she approached . 
The male milkers , with hat brims turned down , resting flat on their foreheads and gazing on the ground , did not observe her . 
Seeing Tess standing at gaze he went across to her . 
Oh ay , as a lad I knowed your part o' the country very well , he said terminatively . 
Though I've never been there since . 
But , Lord , I took no notice of the old woman's ramblings , not I. Oh no it is nothing , said Tess . 
Then the talk was of business only . 
You can milk 'em clean , my maidy ? I don't want my cow going azew at this time o' year . 
She reassured him on that point , and he surveyed her up and down . 
She had been staying indoors a good deal , and her complexion had grown delicate . 
Quite sure you can stand it ? 'Tis comfortable enough here for rough folk but we don't live in a cowcumber frame . 
She declared that she could stand it , and her zest and willingness seemed to win him over . 
Well , I suppose you'll want a dish o' tay , or victuals of some sort , hey ? Not yet ? Well , do as ye like about it . 
But faith , if 'twas I , I should be as dry as a kex wi' travelling so far . 
I'll begin milking now , to get my hand in , said Tess . 
Oh , if ye can swaller that , be it so , he said indifferently , while holding up the pail that she sipped from . 
'Tis what I hain't touched for years not I. Rot the stuff it would lie in my innerds like lead . 
You can try your hand upon she , he pursued , nodding to the nearest cow . 
Not but what she do milk rather hard . 
We've hard ones and we've easy ones , like other folks . 
However , you'll find out that soon enough . 
The conviction bred serenity , her pulse slowed , and she was able to look about her . 
The milkers formed quite a little battalion of men and maids , the men operating on the hard teated animals , the maids on the kindlier natures . 
It was a large dairy . 
There were nearly a hundred milchers under Crick's management , all told and of the herd the master dairyman milked six or eight with his own hands , unless away from home . 
It was not the loss for the moment that made slack milking so serious , but that with the decline of demand there came decline , and ultimately cessation , of supply . 
The only movements were those of the milkers' hands up and down , and the swing of the cows' tails . 
Upon my life , if Winker do begin keeping back like this , she'll not be worth going under by midsummer . 
'Tis because there's a new hand come among us , said Jonathan Kail . 
I've noticed such things afore . 
I've been told that it goes up into their horns at such times , said a dairymaid . 
Well , as to going up into their horns , replied Dairyman Crick dubiously , as though even witchcraft might be limited by anatomical possibilities , I couldn't say I certainly could not . 
But as nott cows will keep it back as well as the horned ones , I don't quite agree to it . 
Howsomever , these gam'sters do certainly keep back their milk today . 
Folks , we must lift up a stave or two that's the only cure for't . 
Tess , who had given ear to this , thought the words were addressed to the dairyman , but she was wrong . 
Oh yes there's nothing like a fiddle , said the dairyman . 
Though I do think that bulls are more moved by a tune than cows at least that's my experience . 
, he found he'd never reach the fence and get over in time to save himself . 
Well , as a last thought , he pulled out his fiddle as he runned , and struck up a jig , turning to the bull , and backing towards the corner . 
The bull softened down , and stood still , looking hard at William Dewy , who fiddled on and on till a sort of a smile stole over the bull's face . 
But no sooner did William stop his playing and turn to get over hedge than the bull would stop his smiling and lower his horns towards the seat of William's breeches . 
Well , then he called to mind how he'd seen the cattle kneel o' Christmas Eves in the dead o' night . 
It was not Christmas Eve then , but it came into his head to play a trick upon the bull . 
Well , 'tis quite true , sir , whether or no . 
I knowed the man well . 
Oh yes I have no doubt of it , said the person behind the dun cow . 
She could not understand why he should be addressed as sir even by the dairyman himself . 
But no explanation was discernible he remained under to cow long enough to have milked three , uttering a private ejaculation now and then , as if he could not get on . 
Take it gentle , sir take it gentle , said the dairyman . 
'Tis knack , not strength that does it . 
So I find , said the other , standing up at last and stretching his arms . 
I think I have finished her , however , though she made my fingers ache . 
Tess could then see him at full length . 
Beneath it was something educated , reserved , subtle , sad , differing . 
But the details of his aspect were temporarily thrust aside by the discovery that he was one whom she had seen before . 
But it passed away when she found no sign of remembrance in him . 
Under his linen milking pinner he wore a dark velveteen jacket , cord breeches and gaiters , and a starched white shirt . 
Without the milking gear nobody could have guessed what he was . 
He might with equal probability have been an eccentric landowner or a gentlemanly ploughman . 
That he was but a novice at dairy work she had realized in a moment , from the time he had spent upon the milking of one cow . 
Only two or three of the maids , Tess learnt , slept in the dairy house besides herself most of the helpers going to their homes . 
It was a large room over the milk house , some thirty feet long the sleeping cots of the other three indoor milkmaids being in the same apartment . 
They were blooming young women , and , except one , rather older than herself . 
By bedtime Tess was thoroughly tired , and fell asleep immediately . 
The girl's whispered words mingled with the shades , and , to Tess's drowsy mind , they seemed to be generated by the darkness in which they floated . 
Mr Angel Clare he that is learning milking , and that plays the harp never says much to us . 
He is a pa'son's son , and is too much taken up wi' his own thoughts to notice girls . 
He is the dairyman's pupil learning farming in all its branches . 
He has learnt sheep farming at another place , and he's now mastering dairy work . 
Yes , he is quite the gentleman born . 
His father is the Reverent Mr Clare at Emminster a good many miles from here . 
Oh I have heard of him , said her companion , now awake . 
All his sons , except our Mr Clare , be made pa'sons too . 
Nevertheless , something nebulous , preoccupied , vague , in his bearing and regard , marked him as one who probably had no very definite aim or concern about his material future . 
Yet as a lad people had said of him that he was one who might do anything if he tried . 
His entry into the ranks of the agriculturists and breeders was a step in the young man's career which had been anticipated neither by himself nor by others . 
Mr Clare the elder , whose first wife had died and left him a daughter , married a second late in life . 
This lady had somewhat unexpectedly brought him three sons , so that between Angel , the youngest , and his father the Vicar there seemed to be almost a missing generation . 
Why has this been sent to my house ? he asked peremptorily , holding up the volume . 
It was ordered , sir . 
Not by me , or any one belonging to me , I am happy to say . 
The shopkeeper looked into his order book . 
Oh , it has been misdirected , sir , he said . 
It was ordered by Mr Angel Clare , and should have been sent to him . 
Mr Clare winced as if he had been struck . 
He went home pale and dejected , and called Angel into his study . 
Look into this book , my boy , he said . 
What do you know about it ? I ordered it , said Angel simply . 
What for ? To read . 
How can you think of reading it ? How can I ? Why it is a system of philosophy . 
There is no more moral , or even religious , work published . 
Yes moral enough I don't deny that . 
I fear I could not conscientiously do so . 
I love the Church as one loves a parent . 
I shall always have the warmest affection for her . 
It had never occurred to the straightforward and simple minded Vicar that one of his own flesh and blood could come to this ! He was stultified , shocked , paralysed . 
Angel's father tried argument , persuasion , entreaty . 
, taking it 'in the literal and grammatical sense' as required by the Declaration and , therefore , I can't be a parson in the present state of affairs , said Angel . 
His father grieved so deeply that it made Angel quite ill to see him . 
Why , that it may be used for the honour and glory of man , father . 
Perhaps if Angel had persevered he might have gone to Cambridge like his brothers . 
I will do without Cambridge , said Angel at last . 
I feel that I have no right to go there in the circumstances . 
The effects of this decisive debate were not long in showing themselves . 
He spent years and years in desultory studies , undertakings , and meditations he began to evince considerable indifference to social forms and observances . 
The material distinctions of rank and wealth he increasingly despised . 
had no aroma for him unless there were good new resolutions in its representatives . 
His room was an immense attic which ran the whole length of the dairy house . 
It could only be reached by a ladder from the cheese loft , and had been closed up for a long time till he arrived and selected it as his retreat . 
Here Clare had plenty of space , and could often be heard by the dairy folk pacing up and down when the household had gone to rest . 
A portion was divided off at one end by a curtain , behind which was his bed , the outer part being furnished as a homely sitting room . 
The longer Clare resided here the less objection had he to his company , and the more did he like to share quarters with them in common . 
Much to his surprise he took , indeed , a real delight in their companionship . 
The conventional farm folk of his imagination personified in the newspaper press by the pitiable dummy known as Hodge were obliterated after a few days' residence . 
At close quarters no Hodge was to be seen . 
At first , it is true , when Clare's intelligence was fresh from a contrasting society , these friends with whom he now hobnobbed seemed a little strange . 
Sitting down as a level member of the dairyman's household seemed at the outset an undignified proceeding . 
The ideas , the modes , the surroundings , appeared retrogressive and unmeaning . 
But with living on there , day after day , the acute sojourner became conscious of a new aspect in the spectacle . 
Without any objective change whatever , variety had taken the place of monotonousness . 
His host and his host's household , his men and his maids , as they became intimately known to Clare , began to differentiate themselves as in a chemical process . 
The thought of Pascal's was brought home to him A MESURE QU'ON A PLUS D'ESPRIT , ON TROUVE QU'IL Y A PLUS D'HOMMES ORIGINAUX . 
LES GENS DU COMMUN NE TROUVENT PAS DE DIFFERENCE ENTRE LES HOMMES . 
The typical and unvarying Hodge ceased to exist . 
Unexpectedly he began to like the outdoor life for its own sake , and for what it brought , apart from its bearing on his own proposed career . 
Considering his position he became wonderfully free from the chronic melancholy which is taking hold of the civilized races with the decline of belief in a beneficent Power . 
He grew away from old associations , and saw something new in life and humanity . 
The conversation at the table mixed in with his phantasmal orchestra till he thought What a fluty voice one of those milkmaids has ! I suppose it is the new one . 
Clare looked round upon her , seated with the others . 
She was not looking towards him . 
Indeed , owing to his long silence , his presence in the room was almost forgotten . 
I don't know about ghosts , she was saying but I do know that our souls can be made to go outside our bodies when we are alive . 
planted erect on the table , like the beginning of a gallows . 
What really now ? And is it so , maidy ? he said . 
The dairyman removed his hard gaze from Tess , and fixed it on his wife . 
The general attention being drawn to her , including that of the dairyman's pupil , Tess flushed , and remarking evasively that it was only a fancy , resumed her breakfast . 
Clare continued to observe her . 
What a fresh and virginal daughter of Nature that milkmaid is ! he said to himself . 
He concluded that he had beheld her before where he could not tell . 
A casual encounter during some country ramble it certainly had been , and he was not greatly curious about it . 
But the circumstance was sufficient to lead him to select Tess in preference to the other pretty milkmaids when he wished to contemplate contiguous womankind . 
XIX In general the cows were milked as they presented themselves , without fancy or choice . 
Knowing , however , the dairyman's wish , she endeavoured conscientiously to take the animals just as they came , expecting the very hard yielders which she could not yet manage . 
Well , it makes no difference , said he . 
You will always be here to milk them . 
Do you think so ? I HOPE I shall ! But I don't KNOW . 
She was angry with herself afterwards , thinking that he , unaware of her grave reasons for liking this seclusion , might have mistaken her meaning . 
She had spoken so earnestly to him , as if his presence were somehow a factor in her wish . 
It was a typical summer evening in June , the atmosphere being in such delicate equilibrium and so transmissive that inanimate objects seemed endowed with two or three senses , if not five . 
There was no distinction between the near and the far , and an auditor felt close to everything within the horizon . 
The soundlessness impressed her as a positive entity rather than as the mere negation of noise . 
It was broken by the strumming of strings . 
Tess had heard those notes in the attic above her head . 
Dim , flattened , constrained by their confinement , they had never appealed to her as now , when they wandered in the still air with a stark quality like that of nudity . 
To speak absolutely , both instrument and execution were poor but the relative is all , and as she listened Tess , like a fascinated bird , could not leave the spot . 
Far from leaving she drew up towards the performer , keeping behind the hedge that he might not guess her presence . 
Tess was conscious of neither time nor space . 
The floating pollen seemed to be his notes made visible , and the dampness of the garden the weeping of the garden's sensibility . 
Though near nightfall , the rank smelling weed flowers glowed as if they would not close for intentness , and the waves of colour mixed with the waves of sound . 
He concluded his plaintive melody , a very simple performance , demanding no great skill and she waited , thinking another might be begun . 
But , tired of playing , he had desultorily come round the fence , and was rambling up behind her . 
Tess , her cheeks on fire , moved away furtively , as if hardly moving at all . 
Angel , however , saw her light summer gown , and he spoke his low tones reaching her , though he was some distance off . 
What makes you draw off in that way , Tess ? said he . 
Are you afraid ? Oh no , sir . 
not of outdoor things especially just now when the apple blooth is falling , and everything is so green . 
But you have your indoor fears eh ? Well yes , sir . 
What of ? I couldn't quite say . 
The milk turning sour ? No. Life in general ? Yes , sir . 
Ah so have I , very often . 
This hobble of being alive is rather serious , don't you think so ? It is now you put it that way . 
All the same , I shouldn't have expected a young girl like you to see it so just yet . 
How is it you do ? She maintained a hesitating silence . 
Come , Tess , tell me in confidence . 
She was expressing in her own native phrases assisted a little by her Sixth Standard training feelings which might almost have been called those of the age the ache of modernism . 
Still , it was strange that they should have come to her while yet so young more than strange it was impressive , interesting , pathetic . 
Not guessing the cause , there was nothing to remind him that experience is as to intensity , and not as to duration . 
Tess's passing corporeal blight had been her mental harvest . 
For the unhappy pilgrim herself there was very good reason . 
I loathe it I would not live alway . 
It was true that he was at present out of his class . 
But she knew that was only because , like Peter the Great in a shipwright's yard , he was studying what he wanted to know . 
He would become an American or Australian Abraham , commanding like a monarch his flocks and his herds , his spotted and his ring straked , his men servants and his maids . 
Every day , every hour , brought to him one more little stroke of her nature , and to her one more of his . 
Tess was trying to lead a repressed life , but she little divined the strength of her own vitality . 
At first Tess seemed to regard Angel Clare as an intelligence rather than as a man . 
He observed her dejection one day , when he had casually mentioned something to her about pastoral life in ancient Greece . 
She was gathering the buds called lords and ladies from the bank while he spoke . 
Why do you look so woebegone all of a sudden ? he asked . 
Oh , 'tis only about my own self , she said , with a frail laugh of sadness , fitfully beginning to peel a lady meanwhile . 
There is no more spirit in me . 
What ? I meant that there are always more ladies than lords when you come to peel them . 
Never mind about the lords and ladies . 
Would you like to take up any course of study history , for example ? Sometimes I feel I don't want to know anything more about it than I know already . 
But that's what books will not tell me . 
Tess , fie for such bitterness ! Of course he spoke with a conventional sense of duty only , for that sort of wondering had not been unknown to himself in bygone days . 
And as he looked at the unpracticed mouth and lips , he thought that such a daughter of the soil could only have caught up the sentiment by rote . 
He says that it stands to reason that old families have done their spurt of work in past days , and can't have anything left in 'em now . 
Well , Mr Clare found this out , and spoke quite scornful to the poor girl for days . 
'Ah ! you're the very boy I want ! says Mr Clare , jumping up and shaking hands wi'en 'I've great hopes of you and gave him half a crown . 
Besides , another diary girl was as good as she , it seemed , in that respect . 
She held her tongue about the d'Urberville vault , the Knight of the Conqueror whose name she bore . 
The insight afforded into Clare's character suggested to her that it was largely owing to her supposed untraditional newness that she had won interest in his eyes . 
XX The season developed and matured . 
Dairyman Crick's household of maids and men lived on comfortably , placidly , even merrily . 
Thus passed the leafy time when arborescence seems to be the one thing aimed at out of doors . 
Tess and Clare unconsciously studied each other , ever balanced on the edge of a passion , yet apparently keeping out of it . 
All the while they were converging , under an irresistible law , as surely as two streams in one vale . 
Tess had never in her recent life been so happy as she was now , possibly never would be so happy again . 
She was , for one thing , physically and mentally suited among these new surroundings . 
The sapling which had rooted down to a poisonous stratum on the spot of its sowing had been transplanted to a deeper soil . 
They met continually they could not help it . 
Milking was done betimes and before the milking came the skimming , which began at a little past three . 
By the time that Tess was dressed Clare was downstairs and out in the humid air . 
The remaining maids and the dairyman usually gave themselves another turn on the pillow , and did not appear till a quarter of an hour later . 
The gray half tones of daybreak are not the gray half tones of the day's close , though the degree of their shade may be the same . 
Being so often possibly not always by chance the first two persons to get up at the dairy house , they seemed to themselves the first persons up of all the world . 
In these early days of her residence here Tess did not skim , but went out of doors at once after rising , where he was generally awaiting her . 
The spectral , half compounded , aqueous light which pervaded the open mead , impressed them with a feeling of isolation , as if they were Adam and Eve . 
Fair women are usually asleep at mid summer dawns . 
She was close at hand , and the rest were nowhere . 
The mixed , singular , luminous gloom in which they walked along together to the spot where the cows lay , often made him think of the Resurrection hour . 
He little thought that the Magdalen might be at his side . 
She looked ghostly , as if she were merely a soul at large . 
It was then , as has been said , that she impressed him most deeply . 
She was no longer the milkmaid , but a visionary essence of woman a whole sex condensed into one typical form . 
He called her Artemis , Demeter , and other fanciful names half teasingly , which she did not like because she did not understand them . 
Call me Tess , she would say askance and he did . 
Then it would grow lighter , and her features would become simply feminine they had changed from those of a divinity who could confer bliss to those of a being who craved it . 
At these non human hours they could get quite close to the waterfowl . 
They could then see the faint summer fogs in layers , woolly , level , and apparently no thicker than counterpanes , spread about the meadows in detached remnants of small extent . 
Then they drove the animals back to the barton , or sat down to milk them on the spot , as the case might require . 
Or perhaps the summer fog was more general , and the meadows lay like a white sea , out of which the scattered trees rose like dangerous rocks . 
Minute diamonds of moisture from the mist hung , too , upon Tess's eyelashes , and drops upon her hair , like seed pearls . 
About this time they would hear Dairyman Crick's voice , lecturing the non resident milkers for arriving late , and speaking sharply to old Deborah Fyander for not washing her hands . 
XXI There was a great stir in the milk house just after breakfast . 
The churn revolved as usual , but the butter would not come . 
Whenever this happened the dairy was paralyzed . 
Squish , squash , echoed the milk in the great cylinder , but never arose the sound they waited for . 
Even the melancholy horse himself seemed to look in at the window in inquiring despair at each walk round . 
'Tis years since I went to Conjuror Trendle's son in Egdon years ! said the dairyman bitterly . 
And he was nothing to what his father had been . 
I have said fifty times , if I have said once , that I DON'T believe in en though 'a do cast folks' waters very true . 
But I shall have to go to 'n if he's alive . 
O yes , I shall have to go to 'n , if this sort of thing continnys ! Even Mr Clare began to feel tragical at the dairyman's desperation . 
Conjuror Fall , t'other side of Casterbridge , that they used to call 'Wide O' , was a very good man when I was a boy , said Jonathan Kail . 
But he's rotten as touchwood by now . 
My grandfather used to go to Conjuror Mynterne , out at Owlscombe , and a clever man a' were , so I've heard grandf'er say , continued Mr Crick . 
But there's no such genuine folk about nowadays ! Mrs Crick's mind kept nearer to the matter in hand . 
Perhaps somebody in the house is in love , she said tentatively . 
I've heard tell in my younger days that that will cause it . 
Why , Crick that maid we had years ago , do ye mind , and how the butter didn't come then Ah yes , yes ! but that isn't the rights o't . 
It had nothing to do with the love making . 
I can mind all about it 'twas the damage to the churn . 
But he had another sort o' woman to reckon wi' this time , and it was not the girl herself . 
'O Lard , here's a time ! said Jack , looking out o' winder at 'em . 
I shall never forget it , never ! 'Twould have melted a marble stone ! But she couldn't find him nowhere at all . 
The dairyman paused , and one or two words of comment came from the listeners . 
Dairyman Crick's stories often seemed to be ended when they were not really so , and strangers were betrayed into premature interjections of finality though old friends knew better . 
, and round she swung him , and Jack began to flop about inside . 
'Not till ye make amends for ravaging her virgin innocence ! says the old woman . 
'Stop the churn you old witch ! screams he . 
Well , none of us ventured to interfere and at last 'a promised to make it right wi' her . 
'Yes I'll be as good as my word ! he said . 
And so it ended that day . 
While the listeners were smiling their comments there was a quick movement behind their backs , and they looked round . 
Tess , pale faced , had gone to the door . 
How warm 'tis today ! she said , almost inaudibly . 
It was warm , and none of them connected her withdrawal with the reminiscences of the dairyman . 
Fortunately for her the milk in the revolving churn at that moment changed its squashing for a decided flick flack . 
'Tis coming ! cried Mrs Crick , and the attention of all was called off from Tess . 
That fair sufferer soon recovered herself externally but she remained much depressed all the afternoon . 
When the evening milking was done she did not care to be with the rest of them , and went out of doors wandering along she knew not whither . 
The evening sun was now ugly to her , like a great inflamed wound in the sky . 
Tess usually accompanied her fellows upstairs . 
Tonight , however , she was the first to go to their common chamber and she had dozed when the other girls came in . 
Neither of her three chamber companions had got into bed . 
Don't push ! You can see as well as I , said Retty , the auburn haired and youngest girl , without removing her eyes from the window . 
'Tis no use for you to be in love with him any more than me , Retty Priddle , said jolly faced Marian , the eldest , slily . 
His thoughts be of other cheeks than thine ! Retty Priddle still looked , and the other looked again . 
There he is again ! cried Izz Huett , the pale girl with dark damp hair and keenly cut lips . 
You needn't say anything , Izz , answered Retty . 
For I zid you kissing his shade . 
WHAT did you see her doing ? asked Marian . 
She put her mouth against the wall and kissed the shade of his mouth I zid her , though he didn't . 
O Izz Huett ! said Marian . 
A rosy spot came into the middle of Izz Huett's cheek . 
Well , there was no harm in it , she declared , with attempted coolness . 
And if I be in love wi'en , so is Retty , too and so be you , Marian , come to that . 
Marian's full face could not blush past its chronic pinkness . 
It is silly to pretend otherwise amongst ourselves , though we need not own it to other folks . 
I would just marry 'n to morrow ! So would I and more , murmured Izz Huett . 
And I too , whispered the more timid Retty . 
We can't all marry him , said Izz . 
We shan't , either of us which is worse still , said the eldest . 
There he is again ! They all three blew him a silent kiss . 
Why ? asked Retty quickly . 
Because he likes Tess Durbeyfield best , said Marian , lowering her voice . 
I have watched him every day , and have found it out . 
There was a reflective silence . 
But she don't care anything for 'n ? at length breathed Retty . 
Well I sometimes think that too . 
But how silly all this is ! said Izz Huett impatiently . 
Somebody in bed hard by sighed too . 
Tears came into the eyes of Retty Priddle , the pretty red haired youngest the last bud of the Paridelles , so important in the county annals . 
They watched silently a little longer , their three faces still close together as before , and the triple hues of their hair mingling . 
But the unconscious Mr Clare had gone indoors , and they saw him no more and , the shades beginning to deepen , they crept into their beds . 
In a few minutes they heard him ascend the ladder to his own room . 
Marian was soon snoring , but Izz did not drop into forgetfulness for a long time . 
Retty Priddle cried herself to sleep . 
The deeper passioned Tess was very far from sleeping even then . 
This conversation was another of the bitter pills she had been obliged to swallow that day . 
Scarce the least feeling of jealousy arose in her breast . 
For that matter she knew herself to have the preference . 
A farm woman would be the only sensible kind of wife for him . 
Dairyman Crick was discovered stamping about the house . 
He had received a letter , in which a customer had complained that the butter had a twang . 
And begad , so 't have ! said the dairyman , who held in his left hand a wooden slice on which a lump of butter was stuck . 
There certainly was a twang . 
The dairyman had not recognized the taste at that time , and thought the butter bewitched . 
We must overhaul that mead , he resumed this mustn't continny ! All having armed themselves with old pointed knives they went out together . 
Angel Clare , who communistically stuck to his rule of taking part with the rest in everything , glanced up now and then . 
It was not , of course , by accident that he walked next to Tess . 
Well , how are you ? he murmured . 
Very well , thank you , sir , she replied demurely . 
As they had been discussing a score of personal matters only half an hour before , the introductory style seemed a little superfluous . 
But they got no further in speech just then . 
They crept and crept , the hem of her petticoat just touching his gaiter , and his elbow sometimes brushing hers . 
At last the dairyman , who came next , could stand it no longer . 
Upon my soul and body , this here stooping do fairly make my back open and shut ! he exclaimed , straightening himself slowly with an excruciated look till quite upright . 
Dairyman Crick withdrew , and Tess dropped behind . 
Mr Clare also stepped out of line , and began privateering about for the weed . 
When she found him near her , her very tension at what she had heard the night before made her the first to speak . 
Don't they look pretty ? she said . 
Who ? Izzy Huett and Retty . 
Tess had moodily decided that either of these maidens would make a good farmer's wife , and that she ought to recommend them , and obscure her own wretched charms . 
Pretty ? Well , yes they are pretty girls fresh looking . 
I have often thought so . 
Though , poor dears , prettiness won't last long ! O no , unfortunately . 
Yes though not better than you . 
They skim better than I. Do they ? Clare remained observing them not without their observing him . 
She is colouring up , continued Tess heroically . 
Oh ! Why it that ? Because you are looking at her . 
From this day she forced herself to take pains to avoid him never allowing herself , as formerly , to remain long in his company , even if their juxtaposition were purely accidental . 
She gave the other three every chance . 
Hot steaming rains fell frequently , making the grass where the cows fed yet more rank , and hindering the late haymaking in the other meads . 
It was Sunday morning the milking was done the outdoor milkers had gone home . 
She had now been two months at Talbothays , and this was her first excursion . 
They could hear the church bell calling as yet nearly a mile off . 
We can't get there anyhow , without walking right through it , or else going round the Turnpike way and that would make us so very late ! said Retty , pausing hopelessly . 
While they stood clinging to the bank they heard a splashing round the bend of the road , and presently appeared Angel Clare , advancing along the lane towards them through the water . 
Four hearts gave a big throb simultaneously . 
He's not going to church , said Marian . 
No I wish he was ! murmured Tess . 
, preferred sermons in stones to sermons in churches and chapels on fine summer days . 
This morning , moreover , he had gone out to see if the damage to the hay by the flood was considerable or not . 
On his walk he observed the girls from a long distance , though they had been so occupied with their difficulties of passage as not to notice him . 
He knew that the water had risen at that spot , and that it would quite check their progress . 
So he had hastened on , with a dim idea of how he could help them one of them in particular . 
Their gauzy skirts had brushed up from the grass innumerable flies and butterflies which , unable to escape , remained caged in the transparent tissue as in an aviary . 
Angel's eye at last fell upon Tess , the hindmost of the four she , being full of suppressed laughter at their dilemma , could not help meeting his glance radiantly . 
He came beneath them in the water , which did not rise over his long boots and stood looking at the entrapped flies and butterflies . 
Are you trying to get to church ? he said to Marian , who was in front , including the next two in his remark , but avoiding Tess . 
Yes , sir and 'tis getting late and my colour do come up so I'll carry you through the pool every Jill of you . 
The whole four flushed as if one heart beat through them . 
I think you can't , sir , said Marian . 
It is the only way for you to get past . 
Nonsense you are not too heavy ! I'd carry you all four together . 
Now , Marian , attend , he continued , and put your arms round my shoulders , so . 
They disappeared round the curve of the road , and only his sousing footsteps and the top ribbon of Marian's bonnet told where they were . 
In a few minutes he reappeared . 
Izz Huett was the next in order upon the bank . 
Here he comes , she murmured , and they could hear that her lips were dry with emotion . 
And I have to put my arms round his neck and look into his face as Marian did . 
There's nothing in that , said Tess quickly . 
There's a time for everything , continued Izz , unheeding . 
A time to embrace , and a time to refrain from embracing the first is now going to be mine . 
Fie it is Scripture , Izz ! Yes , said Izz , I've always a' ear at church for pretty verses . 
Angel Clare , to whom three quarters of this performance was a commonplace act of kindness , now approached Izz . 
She quietly and dreamily lowered herself into his arms , and Angel methodically marched off with her . 
When he was heard returning for the third time Retty's throbbing heart could be almost seen to shake her . 
He went up to the red haired girl , and while he was seizing her he glanced at Tess . 
His lips could not have pronounced more plainly , It will soon be you and I. Her comprehension appeared in her face she could not help it . 
There was an understanding between them . 
Poor little Retty , though by far the lightest weight , was the most troublesome of Clare's burdens . 
Marian had been like a sack of meal , a dead weight of plumpness under which he has literally staggered . 
Izz had ridden sensibly and calmly . 
Retty was a bunch of hysterics . 
However , he got through with the disquieted creature , deposited her , and returned . 
Tess could see over the hedge the distant three in a group , standing as he had placed them on the next rising ground . 
It was now her turn . 
I may be able to clim' along the bank perhaps I can clim' better than they . 
You must be so tired , Mr Clare ! No , no , Tess , said he quickly . 
And almost before she was aware she was seated in his arms and resting against his shoulder . 
Three Leahs to get one Rachel , he whispered . 
They are better women than I , she replied , magnanimously sticking to her resolve . 
Not to me , said Angel . 
He saw her grow warm at this and they went some steps in silence . 
I hope I am not too heavy ? she said timidly . 
You should lift Marian ! Such a lump . 
You are like an undulating billow warmed by the sun . 
And all this fluff of muslin about you is the froth . 
It is very pretty if I seem like that to you . 
Do you know that I have undergone three quarters of this labour entirely for the sake of the fourth quarter ? No. I did not expect such an event today . 
The water came up so sudden . 
That the rise in the water was what she understood him to refer to , the state of breathing belied . 
Clare stood still and inclinced his face towards hers . 
O Tessy ! he exclaimed . 
The girl's cheeks burned to the breeze , and she could not look into his eyes for her emotion . 
It reminded Angel that he was somewhat unfairly taking advantage of an accidental position and he went no further with it . 
No definite words of love had crossed their lips as yet , and suspension at this point was desirable now . 
The dry land was reached , and he set her down . 
Her friends were looking with round thoughtful eyes at her and him , and she could see that they had been talking of her . 
He hastily bade them farewell , and splashed back along the stretch of submerged road . 
The four moved on together as before , till Marian broke the silence by saying No in all truth we have no chance against her ! She looked joylessly at Tess . 
What do you mean ? asked the latter . 
He likes 'ee best the very best ! We could see it as he brought 'ee . 
He would have kissed 'ee , if you had encouraged him to do it , ever so little . 
No , no , said she . 
The gaiety with which they had set out had somehow vanished and yet there was no enmity or malice between them . 
They were generous young souls they had been reared in the lonely country nooks where fatalism is a strong sentiment , and they did not blame her . 
Such supplanting was to be . 
There was no concealing from herself the fact that she loved Angel Clare , perhaps all the more passionately from knowing that the others had also lost their hearts to him . 
There is contagion in this sentiment , especially among women . 
And yet that same hungry nature had fought against this , but too feebly , and the natural result had followed . 
I will never stand in your way , nor in the way of either of you ! she declared to Retty that night in the bedroom . 
Oh ! would you ? Why ? said wondering Retty . 
It cannot be ! But I will be plain . 
Putting myself quite on one side . 
I don't think he will choose either of you . 
I have never expected it thought of it ! moaned Retty . 
But O ! I wish I was dead ! The poor child , torn by a feeling which she hardly understood , turned to the other two girls who came upstairs just then . 
We be friends with her again , she said to them . 
She thinks no more of his choosing her than we do . 
So the reserve went off , and they were confiding and warm . 
I don't seem to care what I do now , said Marian , whose mood was turned to its lowest bass . 
I don't like biding here at Talbothays any longer ! I shall go hwome . 
The air of the sleeping chamber seemed to palpitate with the hopeless passion of the girls . 
They writhed feverishly under the oppressiveness of an emotion thrust on them by cruel Nature's law an emotion which they had neither expected nor desired . 
The incident of the day had fanned the flame that was burning the inside of their hearts out , and the torture was almost more than they could endure . 
The differences which distinguished them as individuals were abstracted by this passion , and each was but portion of one organism called sex . 
There was so much frankness and so little jealousy because there was no hope . 
They tossed and turned on their little beds , and the cheese wring dripped monotonously downstairs . 
B' you awake , Tess ? whispered one , half an hour later . 
It was Izz Huett's voice . 
Some lady looked out for him ? gasped Tess , starting . 
But he is sure to marry her . 
They had heard so very little of this yet it was enough to build up wretched dolorous dreams upon , there in the shade of the night . 
Thus they talked , and ached , and wept till sleep charmed their sorrow away . 
After this disclosure Tess nourished no further foolish thought that there lurked any grave and deliberate import in Clare's attentions to her . 
It was a passing summer love of her face , for love's own temporary sake nothing more . 
The ready bosoms existing there were impregnated by their surroundings . 
July passed over their heads , and the Thermidorean weather which came in its wake seemed an effort on the part of Nature to match the state of hearts at Talbothays Dairy . 
The air of the place , so fresh in the spring and early summer , was stagnant and enervating now . 
Its heavy scents weighed upon them , and at mid day the landscape seemed lying in a swoon . 
Ethiopic scorchings browned the upper slopes of the pastures , but there was still bright green herbage here where the watercourses purled . 
And as Clare was oppressed by the outward heats , so was he burdened inwardly by waxing fervour of passion for the soft and silent Tess . 
The rains having passed the uplands were dry . 
Conversations were concerning sunstroke while butter making , and still more butter keeping , was a despair . 
They milked entirely in the meads for coolness and convenience , without driving in the cows . 
When she rose from her stool under a finished cow Angel Clare , who had been observing her for some time , asked her if she would take the aforesaid creatures next . 
She silently assented , and with her stool at arm's length , and the pail against her knee , went round to where they stood . 
All the men , and some of the women , when milking , dug their foreheads into the cows and gazed into the pail . 
But a few mainly the younger ones rested their heads sideways . 
This was Tess Durbeyfield's habit , her temple pressing the milcher's flank , her eyes fixed on the far end of the meadow with the quiet of one lost in meditation . 
She did not know that Clare had followed her round , and that he sat under his cow watching her . 
The stillness of her head and features was remarkable she might have been in a trance , her eyes open , yet unseeing . 
How very lovable her face was to him . 
yet there was nothing ethereal about it all was real vitality , real warmth , real incarnation . 
And it was in her mouth that this culminated . 
To a young man with the least fire in him that little upward lift in the middle of her red top lip was distracting , infatuating , maddening . 
He had never before seen a woman's lips and teeth which forced upon his mind with such persistent iteration the old Elizabethan simile of roses filled with snow . 
Perfect , he , as a lover , might have called them off hand . 
But no they were not perfect . 
And it was the touch of the imperfect upon the would be perfect that gave the sweetness , because it was that which gave the humanity . 
The influence that had passed into Clare like an excitation from the sky did not die down . 
Resolutions , reticences , prudences , fears , fell back like a defeated battalion . 
Tess was taken completely by surprise , and she yielded to his embrace with unreflecting inevitableness . 
He had been on the point of kissing that too tempting mouth , but he checked himself , for tender conscience' sake . 
Forgive me , Tess dear ! he whispered . 
I ought to have asked . 
I did not know what I was doing . 
I do not mean it as a liberty . 
She slipped up from her seat , and they stood together , his arm still encircling her . 
Tess's eyes , fixed on distance , began to fill . 
Why do you cry , my darling ? he said . 
O I don't know ! she murmured . 
As she saw and felt more clearly the position she was in she became agitated and tried to withdraw . 
Well , I have betrayed my feeling , Tess , at last , said he , with a curious sigh of desperation , signifying unconsciously that his heart had outrun his judgement . 
That I love you dearly and truly I need not say . 
But I it shall go no further now it distresses you I am as surprised as you are . 
You will not think I have presumed upon your defencelessness been too quick and unreflecting , will you ? N' I can't tell . 
He had allowed her to free herself and in a minute or two the milking of each was resumed . 
A veil had been whisked aside the tract of each one's outlook was to have a new horizon thenceforward for a short time or for a long . 
The night was as sultry as the day . 
There was no coolness after dark unless on the grass . 
Roads , garden paths , the house fronts , the barton walls were warm as hearths , and reflected the noontime temperature into the noctambulist's face . 
He sat on the east gate of the dairy yard , and knew not what to think of himself . 
Feeling had indeed smothered judgement that day . 
Since the sudden embrace , three hours before , the twain had kept apart . 
She seemed stilled , almost alarmed , at what had occurred , while the novelty , unpremeditation , mastery of circumstance disquieted him palpitating , contemplative being that he was . 
He could hardly realize their true relations to each other as yet , and what their mutual bearing should be before third parties thenceforward . 
But behold , the absorbing scene had been imported hither . 
Every window of the house being open Clare could hear across the yard each trivial sound of the retiring household . 
A personality within it was so far reaching in her influence as to spread into and make the bricks , mortar , and whole overhanging sky throb with a burning sensibility . 
Whose was this mighty personality ? A milkmaid's . 
It was amazing , indeed , to find how great a matter the life of the obscure dairy had become to him . 
And though new love was to be held partly responsible for this it was not solely so . 
Many besides Angel have learnt that the magnitude of lives is not as to their external displacements , but as to their subjective experiences . 
The impressionable peasant leads a larger , fuller , more dramatic life than the pachydermatous king . 
Looking at it thus he found that life was to be seen of the same magnitude here as elsewhere . 
Despite his heterodoxy , faults , and weaknesses , Clare was a man with a conscience . 
Upon her sensations the whole world depended to Tess through her existence all her fellow creatures existed , to her . 
The universe itself only came into being for Tess on the particular day in the particular year in which she was born . 
This consciousness upon which he had intruded was the single opportunity of existence ever vouchsafed to Tess by an unsympathetic First Cause her all her every and only chance . 
As yet the harm done was small . 
But it was not easy to carry out the resolution never to approach her . 
He was driven towards her by every heave of his pulse . 
He thought he would go and see his friends . 
It might be possible to sound them upon this . 
One morning when they sat down to breakfast at Talbothays Dairy some maid observed that she had not seen anything of Mr Clare that day . 
O no , said Dairyman Crick . 
Mr Clare has gone hwome to Emminster to spend a few days wi' his kinsfolk . 
For four impassioned ones around that table the sunshine of the morning went out at a stroke , and the birds muffled their song . 
But neither girl by word or gesture revealed her blankness . 
How much longer is he to bide here ? asked Izz Huett , the only one of the gloom stricken bevy who could trust her voice with the question . 
Well , I can't mind the exact day without looking at my memorandum book , replied Crick , with the same intolerable unconcern . 
And even that may be altered a bit . 
He'll bide to get a little practice in the calving out at the straw yard , for certain . 
He'll hang on till the end of the year I should say . 
Four months or so of torturing ecstasy in his society of pleasure girdled about with pain . 
After that the blackness of unutterable night . 
The white lane stretched before him , and his eyes were upon it but they were staring into next year , and not at the lane . 
An overpowering reluctance to greet her made him decide that she had not seen him . 
The young lady was Miss Mercy Chant , the only daughter of his father's neighbour and friend , whom it was his parents' quiet hope that he might wed some day . 
She was great at Antinomianism and Bible classes , and was plainly going to hold a class now . 
Clare's mind flew to the impassioned , summer steeped heathens in the Var Vale , their rosy faces court patched with cow droppings and to one the most impassioned of them all . 
He was a little late , and they had already sat down to the morning meal . 
The group at the table jumped up to welcome him as soon as he entered . 
Over their heads hung the picture of Angel's sister , the eldest of the family , sixteen years his senior , who had married a missionary and gone out to Africa . 
Old Mr Clare was a clergyman of a type which , within the last twenty years , has wellnigh dropped out of contemporary life . 
He loved Paul of Tarsus , liked St John , hated St James as much as he dared , and regarded with mixed feelings Timothy , Titus , and Philemon . 
The New Testament was less a Christiad then a Pauliad to his intelligence less an argument than an intoxication . 
He despised the Canons and Rubric , swore by the Articles , and deemed himself consistent through the whole category which in a way he might have been . 
One thing he certainly was sincere . 
He had simply preached austerely at Angel for some time after . 
But the kindness of his heart was such that he never resented anything for long , and welcomed his son today with a smile which was as candidly sweet as a child's . 
Angel sat down , and the place felt like home yet he did not so much as formerly feel himself one of the family gathered there . 
On their part they saw a great difference in him , a growing divergence from the Angel Clare of former times . 
It was chiefly a difference in his manner that they noticed just now , particularly his brothers . 
The manner of the scholar had nearly disappeared still more the manner of the drawing room young man . 
A prig would have said that he had lost culture , and a prude that he had become coarse . 
Such was the contagion of domiciliary fellowship with the Talbothays nymphs and swains . 
When Wordsworth was enthroned they carried pocket copies and when Shelley was belittled they allowed him to grow dusty on their shelves . 
When Correggio's Holy Families were admired , they admired Correggio's Holy Families when he was decried in favour of Velasquez , they sedulously followed suit without any personal objection . 
If these two noticed Angel's growing social ineptness , he noticed their growing mental limitations . 
Felix seemed to him all Church Cuthbert all College . 
His Diocesan Synod and Visitations were the mainsprings of the world to the one Cambridge to the other . 
They were both dutiful and attentive sons , and were regular in their visits to their parents . 
Felix , though an offshoot from a far more recent point in the devolution of theology than his father , was less self sacrificing and disinterested . 
Cuthbert was , upon the whole , the more liberal minded , though , with greater subtlety , he had not so much heart . 
As they walked along the hillside Angel's former feeling revived in him that whatever their advantages by comparison with himself , neither saw or set forth life as it really was lived . 
Perhaps , as with many men , their opportunities of observation were not so good as their opportunities of expression . 
Neither had an adequate conception of the complicated forces at work outside the smooth and gentle current in which they and their associates floated . 
And , therefore , we must make the best of it . 
But I do entreat you to endeavour to keep as much as possible in touch with moral ideals . 
Farming , of course , means roughing it externally but high thinking may go with plain living , nevertheless . 
Of course it may , said Angel . 
They returned down the hill to dinner , which was fixed at any time at which their father's and mother's morning work in the parish usually concluded . 
The walk had made them hungry , Angel in particular , who was now an outdoor man , accustomed to the profuse DAPES INEMPTAE of the dairyman's somewhat coarsely laden table . 
But neither of the old people had arrived , and it was not till the sons were almost tired of waiting that their parents entered . 
The family sat down to table , and a frugal meal of cold viands was deposited before them . 
Ah ! you are looking for the black puddings , my dear boy , observed Clare's mother . 
But I am sure you will not mind doing without them as I am sure your father and I shall not , when you know the reason . 
Of course , said Angel cheerfully , looking round for the mead . 
We never drink spirits at this table , on principle , added his father . 
But what shall I tell the dairyman's wife ? said Angel . 
The truth , of course , said his father . 
I rather wanted to say we enjoyed the mead and the black puddings very much . 
She is a kind , jolly sort of body , and is sure to ask me directly I return . 
You cannot , if we did not , Mr Clare answered lucidly . 
Ah no though that mead was a drop of pretty tipple . 
A what ? said Cuthbert and Felix both . 
Oh 'tis an expression they use down at Talbothays , replied Angel , blushing . 
He felt that his parents were right in their practice if wrong in their want of sentiment , and said no more . 
XXVI It was not till the evening , after family prayers , that Angel found opportunity of broaching to his father one or two subjects near his heart . 
He had strung himself up to the purpose while kneeling behind his brothers on the carpet , studying the little nails in the heels of their walking boots . 
When the service was over they went out of the room with their mother , and Mr Clare and himself were left alone . 
The young man first discussed with the elder his plans for the attainment of his position as a farmer on an extensive scale either in England or in the Colonies . 
As far as worldly wealth goes , continued his father , you will no doubt stand far superior to your brothers in a few years . 
This considerateness on old Mr Clare's part led Angel onward to the other and dearer subject . 
Beyond that , it really matters little . 
Mr Clare , the elder , had plainly never thought of these points before . 
But her father , who is quite as opposed to such flummery as I , says that can be cured . 
It is a mere girlish outbreak which , I am sure , will not be permanent . 
Yes , yes Mercy is good and devout , I know . 
She is not what in common parlance is called a lady , said Angel , unflinchingly , for she is a cottager's daughter , as I am proud to say . 
But she IS a lady , nevertheless in feeling and nature . 
Mercy Chant is of a very good family . 
Pooh ! what's the advantage of that , mother ? said Angel quickly . 
How is family to avail the wife of a man who has to rough it as I have , and shall have to do ? Mercy is accomplished . 
And accomplishments have their charm , returned his mother , looking at him through her silver spectacles . 
As to external accomplishments , what will be the use of them in the life I am going to lead ? while as to her reading , I can take that in hand . 
She'll be apt pupil enough , as you would say if you knew her . 
She's brim full of poetry actualized poetry , if I may use the expression . 
She LIVES what paper poets only write . 
And she is an unimpeachable Christian , I am sure perhaps of the very tribe , genus , and species you desire to propagate . 
O Angel , you are mocking ! Mother , I beg pardon . 
he had been prone to slight when observing it practised by her and the other milkmaids , because of its obvious unreality amid beliefs essentially naturalistic . 
They said finally that it was better not to act in a hurry , but that they would not object to see her . 
Angel therefore refrained from declaring more particulars now . 
He observed his own inconsistencies in dwelling upon accidents in Tess's life as if they were vital features . 
Her unsophisticated open air existence required no varnish of conventionality to make it palatable to him . 
He held that education had as yet but little affected the beats of emotion and impulse on which domestic happiness depends . 
It was the morning of his departure . 
His brothers had already left the Vicarage to proceed on a walking tour in the north , whence one was to return to his college , and the other to his curacy . 
Angel might have accompanied them , but preferred to rejoin his sweetheart at Talbothays . 
To neither Felix nor Cuthbert had he ventured to mention Tess . 
His mother made him sandwiches , and his father accompanied him , on his own mare , a little way along the road . 
Pernicious ! said Mr Clare , with genial scorn and he proceeded to recount experiences which would show the absurdity of that idea . 
As an instance of the latter , he mentioned the case of a young upstart squire named d'Urberville , living some forty miles off , in the neighbourhood of Trantridge . 
Not one of the ancient d'Urbervilles of Kingsbere and other places ? asked his son . 
That curiously historic worn out family with its ghostly legend of the coach and four ? O no . 
The original d'Urbervilles decayed and disappeared sixty or eighty years ago at least , I believe so . 
This seems to be a new family which had taken the name for the credit of the former knightly line I hope they are spurious , I'm sure . 
But it is odd to hear you express interest in old families . 
I thought you set less store by them even than I. You misapprehend me , father you often do , said Angel with a little impatience . 
Politically I am sceptical as to the virtue of their being old . 
Some of the wise even among themselves 'exclaim against their own succession , as Hamlet puts it but lyrically , dramatically , and even historically , I am tenderly attached to them . 
The only pain to me was pain on his account , poor , foolish young man . 
Those ancient and noble words to the Corinthians are strictly true at this present hour . 
Not blows , father ? He did not proceed to blows ? No , he did not . 
Though I have borne blows from men in a mad state of intoxication . 
No ! A dozen times , my boy . 
What then ? I have saved them from the guilt of murdering their own flesh and blood thereby and they have lived to thank me , and praise God . 
May this young man do the same ! said Angel fervently . 
But I fear otherwise , from what you say . 
We'll hope , nevertheless , said Mr Clare . 
And I continue to pray for him , though on this side of the grave we shall probably never meet again . 
But , after all , one of those poor words of mine may spring up in his heart as a good seed some day . 
Indeed , despite his own heterodoxy , Angel often felt that he was nearer to his father on the human side than was either of his brethren . 
Clare was now so familiar with the spot that he knew the individual cows by their names when , a long distance off , he saw them dotted about the meads . 
Not a human being was out of doors at the dairy . 
The denizens were all enjoying the usual afternoon nap of an hour or so which the exceedingly early hours kept in summer time rendered a necessity . 
Angel entered , and went through the silent passages of the house to the back quarters , where he listened for a moment . 
Sustained snores came from the cart house , where some of the men were lying down the grunt and squeal of sweltering pigs arose from the still further distance . 
The large leaved rhubarb and cabbage plants slept too , their broad limp surfaces hanging in the sun like half closed umbrellas . 
He unbridled and fed his horse , and as he re entered the house the clock struck three . 
Three was the afternoon skimming hour and , with the stroke , Clare heard the creaking of the floor boards above , and then the touch of a descending foot on the stairs . 
It was Tess's , who in another moment came down before his eyes . 
She had not heard him enter , and hardly realized his presence there . 
She was yawning , and he saw the red interior of her mouth as if it had been a snake's . 
The brim fulness of her nature breathed from her . 
It was a moment when a woman's soul is more incarnate than at any other time when the most spiritual beauty bespeaks itself flesh and sex takes the outside place in the presentation . 
Then those eyes flashed brightly through their filmy heaviness , before the remainder of her face was well awake . 
Dear , darling Tessy ! he whispered , putting his arm round her , and his face to her flushed cheek . 
Don't , for Heaven's sake , Mister me any more . 
Having been lying down in her clothes she was warm as a sunned cat . 
I've got to go a skimming , she pleaded , and I have on'y old Deb to help me today . 
Mrs Crick is gone to market with Mr Crick , and Retty is not well , and the others are gone out somewhere , and won't be home till milking . 
As they retreated to the milk house Deborah Fyander appeared on the stairs . 
I have come back , Deborah , said Mr Clare , upwards . 
So I can help Tess with the skimming and , as you are very tired , I am sure , you needn't come down till milking time . 
Possibly the Talbothays milk was not very thoroughly skimmed that afternoon . 
Tess was in a dream wherein familiar objects appeared as having light and shade and position , but no particular outline . 
I may as well say it now as later , dearest , he resumed gently . 
I wish to ask you something of a very practical nature , which I have been thinking of ever since that day last week in the meads . 
I shall soon want to marry , and , being a farmer , you see I shall require for my wife a woman who knows all about the management of farms . 
Will you be that woman , Tessy ? He put it that way that she might not think he had yielded to an impulse of which his head would disapprove . 
With pain that was like the bitterness of dissolution she murmured the words of her indispensable and sworn answer as an honourable woman . 
O Mr Clare I cannot be your wife I cannot be ! The sound of her own decision seemed to break Tess's very heart , and she bowed her face in her grief . 
But , Tess ! he said , amazed at her reply , and holding her still more greedily close . 
I cannot ! I only want to love you . 
But why ? Driven to subterfuge , she stammered Your father is a parson , and your mother wouldn' like you to marry such as me . 
She will want you to marry a lady . 
Nonsense I have spoken to them both . 
That was partly why I went home . 
I feel I cannot never , never ! she echoed . 
Is it too sudden to be asked thus , my Pretty ? Yes I did not expect it . 
If you will let it pass , please , Tessy , I will give you time , he said . 
It was very abrupt to come home and speak to you all at once . 
I'll not allude to it again for a while . 
She again took up the shining skimmer , held it beneath the pump , and began anew . 
She could hardly see , her eyes having filled with two blurring tears drawn forth by a grief which , to this her best friend and dear advocate she could never explain . 
I can't skim I can't ! she said , turning away from him . 
Not to agitate and hinder her longer the considerate Clare began talking in a more general way You quite misapprehend my parents . 
They are the most simple mannered people alive , and quite unambitious . 
They are two of the few remaining Evangelical school . 
Tessy , are you an Evangelical ? I don't know . 
You go to church very regularly , and our parson here is not very High , they tell me . 
Tess's ideas on the views of the parish clergyman , whom she heard every week , seemed to be rather more vague than Clare's , who had never heard him at all . 
I wish I could fix my mind on what I hear there more firmly than I do , she remarked as a safe generality . 
It is often a great sorrow to me . 
He had occasionally thought the counsel less honest than musical but he gladly conformed to it now . 
I fancied you looked a little downcast when you came in , she ventured to observe , anxious to keep away from the subject of herself . 
Yes well , my father had been talking a good deal to me of his troubles and difficulties , and the subject always tends to depress me . 
He has been telling me of a very unpleasant scene in which he took part quite recently . 
My father addressed himself to the gentleman point blank , and there was quite a disturbance . 
It was very foolish of my father , I must say , to intrude his conversation upon a stranger when the probabilities were so obvious that it would be useless . 
Tess's look had grown hard and worn , and her ripe mouth tragical but she no longer showed any tremulousness . 
It CAN'T be ! She went out towards the mead , joining the other milkmaids with a bound , as if trying to make the open air drive away her sad constraint . 
It seemed natural enough to him now that Tess was again in sight to choose a mate from unconstrained Nature , and not from the abodes of Art . 
XXVIII Her refusal , though unexpected , did not permanently daunt Clare . 
Tess , why did you say 'no' in such a positive way ? he asked her in the course of a few days . 
I told you why partly . 
I am not good enough not worthy enough . 
How ? Not fine lady enough ? Yes something like that , murmured she . 
Your friends would scorn me . 
Indeed , you mistake them my father and mother . 
As for my brothers , I don't care He clasped his fingers behind her back to keep her from slipping away . 
Now you did not mean it , sweet ? I am sure you did not ! You have made me so restless that I cannot read , or play , or do anything . 
Clare regarded her attentively , conned the characters of her face as if they had been hieroglyphics . 
I almost know that you do not . 
But then , why do you repulse me ? I don't repulse you . 
I like you to tell me you love me and you may always tell me so as you go about with me and never offend me . 
She had come to Talbothays with a made up mind . 
On no account could she agree to a step which might afterwards cause bitter rueing to her husband for his blindness in wedding her . 
And she held that what her conscience had decided for her when her mind was unbiassed ought not to be overruled now . 
Why don't somebody tell him all about me ? she said . 
It was only forty miles off why hasn't it reached here ? Somebody must know ! Yet nobody seemed to know nobody told him . 
For two or three days no more was said . 
Tess had never before known a time in which the thread of her life was so distinctly twisted of two strands , positive pleasure and positive pain . 
At the next cheese making the pair were again left alone together . 
Anyhow , the dairyman left them to themselves . 
They were breaking up the masses of curd before putting them into the vats . 
The operation resembled the act of crumbling bread on a large scale and amid the immaculate whiteness of the curds Tess Durbeyfield's hands showed themselves of the pinkness of the rose . 
Angel , who was filling the vats with his handful , suddenly ceased , and laid his hands flat upon hers . 
Her sleeves were rolled far above the elbow , and bending lower he kissed the inside vein of her soft arm . 
But she was such a sheaf of susceptibilities that her pulse was accelerated by the touch , her blood driven to her finder ends , and the cool arms flushed hot . 
Do you know why I did that , Tess ? he said . 
Because you love me very much ! Yes , and as a preliminary to a new entreaty . 
Not AGAIN ! She looked a sudden fear that her resistance might break down under her own desire . 
O , Tessy ! he went on , I CANNOT think why you are so tantalizing . 
And yet , dearest , he quickly added , observing now the remark had cut her , I know you to be the most honest , spotless creature that ever lived . 
Clare was so pained and perplexed that he ran after and caught her in the passage . 
And I will give you a complete answer , if you will let me go now . 
I will tell you my experiences all about myself all ! Your experiences , dear yes , certainly and number . 
He expressed assent in loving satire , looking into her face . 
My Tess , no doubt , almost as many experiences as that wild convolvulus out there on the garden hedge , that opened itself this morning for the first time . 
Tell me anything , but don't use that wretched expression any more about not being worthy of me . 
I will try not ! And I'll give you my reasons tomorrow next week . 
Say on Sunday ? Yes , on Sunday . 
In reality , she was drifting into acquiescence . 
Every see saw of her breath , every wave of her blood , every pulse singing in her ears , was a voice that joined with nature in revolt against her scrupulousness . 
The afternoon advanced , and still she remained among the willows . 
She heard the rattle of taking down the pails from the forked stands the waow waow ! which accompanied the getting together of the cows . 
But she did not go to the milking . 
They would see her agitation and the dairyman , thinking the cause to be love alone , would good naturedly tease her and that harassment could not be borne . 
Her lover must have guessed her overwrought state , and invented some excuse for her non appearance , for no inquiries were made or calls given . 
The pollard willows , tortured out of their natural shape by incessant choppings , became spiny haired monsters as they stood up against it . 
She went in , and upstairs without a light . 
Thursday came , and Angel looked thoughtfully at her from a distance , but intruded in no way upon her . 
The indoor milkmaids , Marian and the rest , seemed to guess that something definite was afoot , for they did not force any remarks upon her in the bedchamber . 
Now , just who mid ye think ? One guessed , and another guessed . 
Mrs Crick did not guess , because she knew already . 
Well , said the dairyman , 'tis that slack twisted 'hore's bird of a feller , Jack Dollop . 
He's lately got married to a widow woman . 
Not Jack Dollop ? A villain to think o' that ! said a milker . 
Never meant to , replied the dairyman . 
As I say , 'tis a widow woman , and she had money , it seems fifty poun' a year or so and that was all he was after . 
They were married in a great hurry and then she told him that by marrying she had lost her fifty poun' a year . 
Just fancy the state o' my gentleman's mind at that news ! Never such a cat and dog life as they've been leading ever since ! Serve him will beright . 
But onluckily the poor woman gets the worst o't . 
Well , the silly body should have told en sooner that the ghost of her first man would trouble him , said Mrs Crick . 
Ay ay , responded the dairyman indecisively . 
Still , you can see exactly how 'twas . 
She wanted a home , and didn't like to run the risk of losing him . 
Don't ye think that was something like it , maidens ? He glanced towards the row of girls . 
She ought to ha' told him just before they went to church , when he could hardly have backed out , exclaimed Marian . 
Yes , she ought , agreed Izz . 
She must have seen what he was after , and should ha' refused him , cried Retty spasmodically . 
And what do you say , my dear ? asked the dairyman of Tess . 
I think she ought to have told him the true state of things or else refused him I don't know , replied Tess , the bread and butter choking her . 
Be cust if I'd have done either o't , said Beck Knibbs , a married helper from one of the cottages . 
All's fair in love and war . 
The laughter which followed this sally was supplemented only by a sorry smile , for form's sake , from Tess . 
What was comedy to them was tragedy to her and she could hardly bear their mirth . 
Yes , there was the pain of it . 
This question of a woman telling her story the heaviest of crosses to herself seemed but amusement to others . 
It was as if people should laugh at martyrdom . 
Tessy ! came from behind her , and Clare sprang across the gully , alighting beside her feet . 
My wife soon ! No , no I cannot . 
For your sake , O Mr Clare for your sake , I say no ! Tess ! Still I say no ! she repeated . 
Not expecting this he had put his arm lightly round her waist the moment after speaking , beneath her hanging tail of hair . 
If she had said Yes instead of No he would have kissed her it had evidently been his intention but her determined negative deterred his scrupulous heart . 
He release her momentarily imprisoned waist , and withheld the kiss . 
It all turned on that release . 
What had given her strength to refuse him this time was solely the tale of the widow told by the dairyman and that would have been overcome in another moment . 
But Angel said no more his face was perplexed he went away . 
Day after day they met somewhat less constantly than before and thus two or three weeks went by . 
The end of September drew near , and she could see in his eye that he might ask her again . 
The fitful evasiveness of her manner when the subject was under discussion countenanced the idea . 
So he played a more coaxing game and while never going beyond words , or attempting the renewal of caresses , he did his utmost orally . 
Tess knew that she must break down . 
Neither a religious sense of a certain moral validity in the previous union nor a conscientious wish for candour could hold out against it much longer . 
She loved him so passionately , and he was so godlike in her eyes and being , though untrained , instinctively refined , her nature cried for his tutelary guidance . 
And thus , though Tess kept repeating to herself , I can never be his wife , the words were vain . 
A proof of her weakness lay in the very utterance of what calm strength would not have taken the trouble to formulate . 
Every sound of his voice beginning on the old subject stirred her with a terrifying bliss , and she coveted the recantation she feared . 
The season meanwhile was drawing onward to the equinox , and though it was still fine , the days were much shorter . 
The dairy had again worked by morning candlelight for a long time and a fresh renewal of Clare's pleading occurred one morning between three and four . 
At the same moment he came down his steps from above in his shirt sleeves and put his arm across the stairway . 
Now , Miss Flirt , before you go down , he said peremptorily . 
It is a fortnight since I spoke , and this won't do any longer . 
You MUST tell me what you mean , or I shall have to leave this house . 
My door was ajar just now , and I saw you . 
For your own safety I must go . 
Well ? Is it to be yes at last ? I am only just up , Mr Clare , and it is too early to take me to task ! she pouted . 
You need not call me Flirt . 
Wait till by and by . 
Please wait till by and by ! I will really think seriously about it between now and then . 
Let me go downstairs ! She looked a little like what he said she was as , holding the candle sideways , she tried to smile away the seriousness of her words . 
Call me Angel , then and not Mr Clare . 
Very well , then , 'Angel dearest' , if I MUST , she murmured , looking at her candle , a roguish curl coming upon her mouth , notwithstanding her suspense . 
She passed downstairs very quickly , never looking back at him or saying another word . 
The other maids were already down , and the subject was not pursued . 
When skimming was done which , as the milk diminished with the approach of autumn , was a lessening process day by day Retty and the rest went out . 
Not so very different , I think , she said . 
Why do you think that ? There are very few women's lives that are not tremulous , Tess replied , pausing over the new word as if it impressed her . 
There's more in those three than you think . 
What is in them ? Almost either of 'em , she began , would make perhaps would make a properer wife than I. And perhaps they love you as well as I almost . 
That was now done , and she had not the power to attempt self immolation a second time then . 
They were joined by a milker from one of the cottages , and no more was said on that which concerned them so deeply . 
But Tess knew that this day would decide it . 
The supply was getting less as the animals advanced in calf , and the supernumerary milkers of the lush green season had been dismissed . 
Each pailful was poured into tall cans that stood in a large spring waggon which had been brought upon the scene and when they were milked the cows trailed away . 
Dairyman Crick , who was there with the rest , his wrapper gleaming miraculously white against a leaden evening sky , suddenly looked at his heavy watch . 
Why , 'tis later than I thought , he said . 
Begad ! We shan't be soon enough with this milk at the station , if we don't mind . 
There's no time today to take it home and mix it with the bulk afore sending off . 
It must go to station straight from here . 
Who'll drive it across ? Mr Clare volunteered to do so , though it was none of his business , asking Tess to accompany him . 
She therefore replied by glancing over her scant habiliments but Clare gently urged her . 
She assented by relinquishing her pail and stool to the dairyman to take home and mounted the spring waggon beside Clare . 
On its summit stood clumps and stretches of fir trees , whose notched tips appeared like battlemented towers crowning black fronted castles of enchantment . 
The lane they followed was so solitary that the hazel nuts had remained on the boughs till they slipped from their shells , and the blackberries hung in heavy clusters . 
Every now and then Angel would fling the lash of his whip round one of these , pluck it off , and give it to his companion . 
The quick silvery glaze on the rivers and pools vanished from broad mirrors of light they changed to lustreless sheets of lead , with a surface like a rasp . 
But that spectacle did not affect her preoccupation . 
I ought not to have come , I suppose , she murmured , looking at the sky . 
I am sorry for the rain , said he . 
But how glad I am to have you here ! Remote Egdon disappeared by degree behind the liquid gauze . 
The evening grew darker , and the roads being crossed by gates it was not safe to drive faster than at a walking pace . 
The air was rather chill . 
I am so afraid you will get cold , with nothing upon your arms and shoulders , he said . 
Creep close to me , and perhaps the drizzle won't hurt you much . 
I should be sorrier still if I did not think that the rain might be helping me . 
She imperceptibly crept closer , and he wrapped round them both a large piece of sail cloth , which was sometimes used to keep the sun off the milk cans . 
Tess held it from slipping off him as well as herself , Clare's hands being occupied . 
Now we are all right again . 
Ah no we are not ! It runs down into my neck a little , and it must still more into yours . 
Your arms are like wet marble , Tess . 
Wipe them in the cloth . 
Now , if you stay quiet , you will not get another drop . 
Do you remember what you said ? I do , she replied . 
Before we get home , mind . 
He said no more then . 
As they drove on the fragment of an old manor house of Caroline date rose against the sky , and was in due course passed and left behind . 
I never pass one of their residences without thinking of them . 
There is something very sad in the extinction of a family of renown , even if it was fierce , domineering , feudal renown . 
The cans of new milk were unladen in the rain , Tess getting a little shelter from a neighbouring holly tree . 
Then there was the hissing of a train , which drew up almost silently upon the wet rails , and the milk was rapidly swung can by can into the truck . 
The light of the engine flashed for a second upon Tess Durbeyfield's figure , motionless under the great holly tree . 
Tess was so receptive that the few minutes of contact with the whirl of material progress lingered in her thought . 
Londoners will drink it at their breakfasts tomorrow , won't they ? she asked . 
Strange people that we have never seen . 
Yes I suppose they will . 
Though not as we send it . 
When its strength has been lowered , so that it may not get up into their heads . 
Noble men and noble women , ambassadors and centurions , ladies and tradeswomen , and babies who have never seen a cow . 
Well , yes perhaps particularly centurions . 
Now , permit me to put it in this way . 
You belong to me already , you know your heart , I mean . 
I have something to tell you But suppose it to be entirely for my happiness , and my worldly convenience also ? O yes if it is for your happiness and worldly convenience . 
But my life before I came here I want Well , it is for my convenience as well as my happiness . 
So please please , dear Tessy , disabuse your mind of the feeling that you will stand in my way . 
I want you to know it you must let me tell you you will not like me so well ! Tell it if you wish to , dearest . 
And I grew up there . 
But there was trouble in my family father was not very industrious , and he drank a little . 
Poor child ! Nothing new . 
He pressed her more closely to his side . 
And then there is something very unusual about it about me . 
I I was Tess's breath quickened . 
I I am not a Durbeyfield , but a d'Urberville a descendant of the same family as those that owned the old house we passed . 
And we are all gone to nothing ! A d'Urberville ! Indeed ! And is that all the trouble , dear Tess ? Yes , she answered faintly . 
Well why should I love you less after knowing this ? I was told by the dairyman that you hated old families . 
Well , it is true , in one sense . 
But other hills and field belonged to Retty's people , and perhaps others to Marian's , so that I don't value it particularly . 
I wonder that I did not see the resemblance of your name of d'Urberville , and trace the manifest corruption . 
And this was the carking secret ! She had not told . 
At the last moment her courage had failed her , she feared his blame for not telling him sooner and her instinct of self preservation was stronger than her candour . 
, and made selfish likewise . 
For your own sake I rejoice in your descent . 
My mother too , poor soul , will think so much better of you on account of it . 
Tess , you must spell your name correctly d'Urberville from this very day . 
I like the other way rather best . 
Why , he is the very man who had that rumpus with my father I told you of . 
What an odd coincidence ! Angel , I think I would rather not take the name ! It is unlucky , perhaps ! She was agitated . 
Now then , Mistress Teresa d'Urberville , I have you . 
You will you do say it , I know ! You will be mine for ever and ever . 
He clasped her close and kissed her . 
Yes ! She had no sooner said it than she burst into a dry hard sobbing , so violent that it seemed to rend her . 
Tess was not a hysterical girl by any means , and he was surprised . 
How came you to wish that if you care for me ? Do you care for me ? I wish you would prove it in some way . 
How can I prove it more than I have done ? she cried , in a distraction of tenderness . 
There now do you believe ? she asked , flushed , and wiping her eyes . 
She might as well have agreed at first . 
I must write to my mother , she said . 
You don't mind my doing that ? Of course not , dear child . 
Where does she live ? At the same place Marlott . 
On the further side of Blackmoor Vale . 
Ah , then I HAVE seen you before this summer Yes at that dance on the green but you would not dance with me . 
DEAR TESS , J write these few lines Hoping they will find you well , as they leave me at Present , thank God for it . 
Dear Tess , we are all glad to Hear that you are going really to be married soon . 
J did not tell everything to your Father , he being so Proud on account of his Respectability , which , perhaps , your Intended is the same . 
J shall answer the same if you ask me fifty times . 
J have not named either that Question or your coming marriage to your Father , as he would blab it everywhere , poor Simple Man . 
So no more at present , and with kind love to your Young Man . 
J. DURBEYFIELD O mother , mother ! murmured Tess . 
She was recognizing how light was the touch of events the most oppressive upon Mrs Durbeyfield's elastic spirit . 
Her mother did not see life as Tess saw it . 
That haunting episode of bygone days was to her mother but a passing accident . 
But perhaps her mother was right as to the course to be followed , whatever she might be in her reasons . 
Silence seemed , on the face of it , best for her adored one's happiness silence it should be . 
Thus steadied by a command from the only person in the world who had any shadow of right to control her action , Tess grew calmer . 
The responsibility was shifted , and her heart was lighter than it had been for weeks . 
There was hardly a touch of earth in her love for Clare . 
To her sublime trustfulness he was all that goodness could be knew all that a guide , philosopher , and friend should know . 
She thought every line in the contour of his person the perfection of masculine beauty , his soul the soul of a saint , his intellect that of a seer . 
The wisdom of her love for him , as love , sustained her dignity she seemed to be wearing a crown . 
The compassion of his love for her , as she saw it , made her lift up her heart to him in devotion . 
He would sometimes catch her large , worshipful eyes , that had no bottom to them looking at him from their depths , as if she saw something immortal before her . 
She dismissed the past trod upon it and put it out , as one treads on a coal that is smouldering and dangerous . 
She had not known that men could be so disinterested , chivalrous , protective , in their love for women as he . 
This amazed and enraptured Tess , whose slight experiences had been so infelicitous till now and in her reaction from indignation against the male sex she swerved to excess of honour for Clare . 
They unaffectedly sought each other's company in her honest faith she did not disguise her desire to be with him . 
They saw tiny blue fogs in the shadows of trees and hedges , all the time that there was bright sunshine elsewhere . 
You are not ashamed of owning me as yours before them ! she said gladly . 
O no ! But if it should reach the ears of your friends at Emminster that you are walking about like this with me , a milkmaid The most bewitching milkmaid every seen . 
They might feel it a hurt to their dignity . 
Apart from that , my future is to be totally foreign to my family it will not affect even the surface of their lives . 
Her feelings almost filled her ears like a babble of waves , and surged up to her eyes . 
They walked later on Sundays , when it was quite dark . 
They marked the buoyancy of her tread , like the skim of a bird which had not quite alighted . 
She knew that they were waiting like wolves just outside the circumscribing light , but she had long spells of power to keep them in hungry subjection there . 
A spiritual forgetfulness co existed with an intellectual remembrance . 
She walked in brightness , but she knew that in the background those shapes of darkness were always spread . 
They might be receding , or they might be approaching , one or the other , a little every day . 
One evening Tess and Clare were obliged to sit indoors keeping house , all the other occupants of the domicile being away . 
As they talked she looked thoughtfully up at him , and met his two appreciative eyes . 
She struggled with the sob in her throat . 
How often had that string of excellences made her young heart ache in church of late years , and how strange that he should have cited them now . 
Ah why didn't I stay ! he said . 
That is just what I feel . 
To calm herself the more completely she rose from her little stool and left the room , overturning the stool with her skirts as she went . 
He sat on by the cheerful firelight thrown from a bundle of green ash sticks laid across the dogs the sticks snapped pleasantly , and hissed out bubbles of sap from their ends . 
When she came back she was herself again . 
I wanted to ask you something , and just then you ran away . 
Yes , perhaps I am capricious , she murmured . 
She suddenly approached him , and put a hand upon each of his arms . 
What did you want to ask me I am sure I will answer it , she continued humbly . 
Well , you love me , and have agreed to marry me , and hence there follows a thirdly , 'When shall the day be ? I like living like this . 
But I must think of starting in business on my own hook with the new year , or a little later . 
And before I get involved in the multifarious details of my new position , I should like to have secured my partner . 
I want you to help me in many ways in making my start . 
When shall it be ? Why not a fortnight from now ? No , she said , becoming grave I have so many things to think of first . 
But He drew her gently nearer to him . 
The reality of marriage was startling when it loomed so near . 
Tess sprang like an elastic ball from his side to her feet while her face flushed and her eyes shone in the firelight . 
I know how it would be if I sat so close to him ! she cried , with vexation . 
Ah and be ye ! Well , I am truly glad to hear it , sir . 
I've thought you mid do such a thing for some time . 
She had been even more struck with the look of the girls who followed Crick than abashed by Crick's blunt praise . 
After supper , when she reached her bedroom , they were all present . 
A light was burning , and each damsel was sitting up whitely in her bed , awaiting Tess , the whole like a row of avenging ghosts . 
But she saw in a few moments that there was no malice in their mood . 
They could scarcely feel as a loss what they had never expected to have . 
Their condition was objective , contemplative . 
He's going to marry her ! murmured Retty , never taking eyes off Tess . 
How her face do show it ! You BE going to marry him ? asked Marian . 
They thought that this was evasiveness only . 
YES going to MARRY him a gentleman ! repeated Izz Huett . 
And by a sort of fascination the three girls , one after another , crept out of their beds , and came and stood barefooted round Tess . 
How it do seem ! Almost more than I can think of ! said Izz Huett . 
Yes , she murmured as she withdrew her lips . 
Was that because of love for her , or because other lips have touched there by now ? continued Izz drily to Marian . 
I wasn't thinking o' that , said Marian simply . 
I was on'y feeling all the strangeness o't that she is to be his wife , and nobody else . 
I don't say nay to it , nor either of us , because we did not think of it only loved him . 
Still , nobody else is to marry'n in the world no fine lady , nobody in silks and satins but she who do live like we . 
Are you sure you don't dislike me for it ? said Tess in a low voice . 
They hung about her in their white nightgowns before replying , as if they considered their answer might lie in her look . 
I don't know I don't know , murmured Retty Priddle . 
I want to hate 'ee but I cannot ! That's how I feel , echoed Izz and Marian . 
Somehow she hinders me ! He ought to marry one of you , murmured Tess . 
Why ? You are all better than I. We better than you ? said the girls in a low , slow whisper . 
No , no , dear Tess ! You are ! she contradicted impetuously . 
He ought to have had one of you ! she cried . 
You are best for'n , said Marian . 
More ladylike , and a better scholar than we , especially since he had taught 'ee so much . 
But even you ought to be proud . 
You BE proud , I'm sure ! Yes , I am , she said and I am ashamed at so breaking down . 
XXXII This penitential mood kept her from naming the wedding day . 
The beginning of November found its date still in abeyance , though he asked her at the most tempting times . 
But Tess's desire seemed to be for a perpetual betrothal in which everything should remain as it was then . 
In the presence of these things he would remind her that the date was still the question . 
Or he would ask her at night , when he accompanied her on some mission invented by Mrs Crick to give him the opportunity . 
This was mostly a journey to the farmhouse on the slopes above the vale , to inquire how the advanced cows were getting on in the straw barton to which they were relegated . 
For it was a time of the year that brought great changes to the world of kine . 
Returning from one of these dark walks they reached a great gravel cliff immediately over the levels , where they stood still and listened . 
It seems like tens of thousands of them , said Tess holding public meetings in their market places , arguing , preaching , quarrelling , sobbing , groaning , praying , and cursing . 
Clare was not particularly heeding . 
Did Crick speak to you today , dear , about his not wanting much assistance during the winter months ? No. The cows are going dry rapidly . 
Six of seven went to the straw barton yesterday , and three the day before , making nearly twenty in the straw already . 
I am afraid I was sinner enough to feel rather glad that he was in this way forcing your hand . 
I don't think you ought to have felt glad , Angel . 
Because 'tis always mournful not to be wanted , even if at the same time 'tis convenient . 
Well , it is convenient you have admitted that . 
He put his finger upon her cheek . 
What ? I feel the red rising up at her having been caught ! But why should I trifle so ! We will not trifle life is too serious . 
Perhaps I saw that before you did . 
She was seeing it then . 
She hated the thought , and she hated more the thought of going home . 
Besides , if you were not the most uncalculating girl in the world you would know that we could not go on like this for ever . 
O , I know you will ! she cried , with a sudden fervour of faith in him . 
When they reached the dairy Mr and Mrs Crick were promptly told with injunctions of secrecy for each of the lovers was desirous that the marriage should be kept as private as possible . 
The dairyman , though he had thought of dismissing her soon , now made a great concern about losing her . 
Tess was now carried along upon the wings of the hours , without the sense of a will . 
The word had been given the number of the day written down . 
But she wrote anew to her mother , ostensibly to notify the wedding day really to again implore her advice . 
It was a gentleman who had chosen her , which perhaps her mother had not sufficiently considered . 
A post nuptial explanation , which might be accepted with a light heart by a rougher man , might not be received with the same feeling by him . 
But this communication brought no reply from Mrs Durbeyfield . 
He loved her dearly , though perhaps rather ideally and fancifully than with the impassioned thoroughness of her feeling for him . 
Unsophistication was a thing to talk of but he had not known how it really struck one until he came here . 
Yet he was very far from seeing his future track clearly , and it might be a year or two before he would be able to consider himself fairly started in life . 
The secret lay in the tinge of recklessness imparted to his career and character by the sense that he had been made to miss his true destiny through the prejudices of his family . 
Don't you think 'twould have been better for us to wait till you were quite settled in your midland farm ? she once asked timidly . 
To tell the truth , my Tess , I don't like you to be left anywhere away from my protection and sympathy . 
The reason was a good one , so far as it went . 
His influence over her had been so marked that she had caught his manner and habits , his speech and phrases , his likings and his aversions . 
And to leave her in farmland would be to let her slip back again out of accord with him . 
He wished to have her under his charge for another reason . 
Next , he wished to see a little of the working of a flour mill , having an idea that he might combine the use of one with corn growing . 
Clare paid a visit to the place , some few miles distant , one day at this time , to inquire particulars , and returned to Talbothays in the evening . 
She found him determined to spend a short time at the Wellbridge flour mills . 
This was always how Clare settled practical questions by a sentiment which had nothing to do with them . 
They decided to go immediately after the wedding , and remain for a fortnight , instead of journeying to towns and inns . 
Questions of procedure such as these arose and passed , and the day , the incredible day , on which she was to become his , loomed large in the near future . 
The thirty first of December , New Year's Eve , was the date . 
His wife , she said to herself . 
You was not called home this morning . 
What ? It should ha' been the first time of asking today , she answered , looking quietly at Tess . 
You meant to be married New Year's Eve , deary ? The other returned a quick affirmative . 
And there must be three times of asking . 
And now there be only two Sundays left between . 
Tess felt her cheek paling Izz was right of course there must be three . 
Perhaps he had forgotten ! If so , there must be a week's postponement , and that was unlucky . 
How could she remind her lover ? She who had been so backward was suddenly fired with impatience and alarm lest she should lose her dear prize . 
A natural incident relieved her anxiety . 
Izz mentioned the omission of the banns to Mrs Crick , and Mrs Crick assumed a matron's privilege of speaking to Angel on the point . 
Have ye forgot 'em , Mr Clare ? The banns , I mean . 
No , I have not forgot 'em , says Clare . 
As soon as he caught Tess alone he assured her Don't let them tease you about the banns . 
A licence will be quieter for us , and I have decided on a licence without consulting you . 
So if you go to church on Sunday morning you will not hear your own name , if you wished to . 
I didn't wish to hear it , dearest , she said proudly . 
How events were favouring her ! I don't quite feel easy , she said to herself . 
All this good fortune may be scourged out of me afterwards by a lot of ill . 
That's how Heaven mostly does . 
I wish I could have had common banns ! But everything went smoothly . 
She wondered whether he would like her to be married in her present best white frock , or if she ought to buy a new one . 
The question was set at rest by his forethought , disclosed by the arrival of some large packages addressed to her . 
Inside them she found a whole stock of clothing , from bonnet to shoes , including a perfect morning costume , such as would well suit the simple wedding they planned . 
He entered the house shortly after the arrival of the packages , and heard her upstairs undoing them . 
A minute later she came down with a flush on her face and tears in her eyes . 
How thoughtful you've been ! she murmured , her cheek upon his shoulder . 
Even to the gloves and handkerchief ! My own love how good , how kind ! No , no , Tess just an order to a tradeswoman in London nothing more . 
She did return upstairs , and put on the gown . 
Suppose this robe should betray her by changing colour , as her robe had betrayed Queen Guenever . 
Since she had been at the dairy she had not once thought of the lines till now . 
During the preceding week , therefore , he suggested making a few purchases in the nearest town , and they started together . 
Clare's life at the dairy had been that of a recluse in respect the world of his own class . 
For months he had never gone near a town , and , requiring no vehicle , had never kept one , hiring the dairyman's cob or gig if he rode or drove . 
They went in the gig that day . 
And then for the first time in their lives they shopped as partners in one concern . 
Tess paid the penalty of walking about with happiness superadded to beauty on her countenance by being much stared at as she moved amid them on his arm . 
The general sitting room was full of guests , who were continually going in and out . 
As the door opened and shut each time for the passage of these , the light within the parlour fell full upon Tess's face . 
Two men came out and passed by her among the rest . 
A comely maid that , said the other . 
But unless I make a great mistake And negatived the remainder of the definition forthwith . 
Clare had just returned from the stable yard , and , confronting the man on the threshold , heard the words , and saw the shrinking of Tess . 
The man recovered himself , and seemed inclined to come on , and Clare , stepping outside the door , put himself in a posture of defence . 
But his opponent began to think better of the matter . 
He looked anew at Tess as he passed her , and said to Clare I beg pardon , sir 'twas a complete mistake . 
I thought she was another woman , forty miles from here . 
As soon as Clare had taken the reins from the ostler , and the young couple had driven off , the two men went in the other direction . 
And was it a mistake ? said the second one . 
Not a bit of it . 
But I didn't want to hurt the gentleman's feelings not I. In the meantime the lovers were driving onward . 
Could we put off our wedding till a little later ? Tess asked in a dry dull voice . 
I mean if we wished ? No , my love . 
Do you mean that the fellow may have time to summon me for assault ? he asked good humouredly . 
No I only meant if it should have to be put off . 
What she meant was not very clear , and he directed her to dismiss such fancies from her mind , which she obediently did as well as she could . 
They parted tenderly that night on the landing , and Clare ascended to his attic . 
Tess sat up getting on with some little requisites , lest the few remaining days should not afford sufficient times . 
While she sat she heard a noise in Angel's room overhead , a sound of thumping and struggling . 
Everybody else in the house was asleep , and in her anxiety lest Clare should be ill she ran up and knocked at his door , and asked him what was the matter . 
Oh , nothing , dear , he said from within . 
I am occasionally liable to these freaks in my sleep . 
Go to bed and think of it no more . 
This was the last drachm required to turn the scale of her indecision . 
Declare the past to him by word of mouth she could not but there was another way . 
Then , lest the flesh should again be weak , she crept upstairs without any shoes and slipped the note under his door . 
Her night was a broken one , as it well might be , and she listened for the first faint noise overhead . 
It came , as usual he descended , as usual . 
He met her at the bottom of the stairs and kissed her . 
Surely it was as warmly as ever ! He looked a little disturbed and worn , she thought . 
But he said not a word to her about her revelation , even when they were alone . 
Could he have had it ? Unless he began the subject she felt that she could say nothing . 
So the day passed , and it was evident that whatever he thought he meant to keep to himself . 
Yet he was frank and affectionate as before . 
It might be that he forgave her . 
But even if he had not received it she had a sudden enthusiastic trust that he surely would forgive her . 
Every morning and night he was the same , and thus New Year's Eve broke the wedding day . 
When they arrived downstairs at breakfast time they were surprised to see what effects had been produced in the large kitchen for their glory since they had last beheld it . 
This renovated aspect of what was the focus indeed of the room on a full winter morning , threw a smiling demeanour over the whole apartment . 
I was determined to do summat in honour o't , said the dairyman . 
Tess's friends lived so far off that none could conveniently have been present at the ceremony , even had any been asked but as a fact nobody was invited from Marlott . 
This coolness in his relations distressed Clare less than it would have done had he been without the grand card with which he meant to surprise them ere long . 
It was a pretty lover's dream , if no more . 
Perhaps Tess's lineage had more value for himself than for anybody in the world beside . 
Her perception that Angel's bearing towards her still remained in no whit altered by her own communication rendered Tess guiltily doubtful if he could have received it . 
She rose from breakfast before he had finished , and hastened upstairs . 
She stooped to the threshold of the doorway , where she had pushed in the note two or three days earlier in such excitement . 
With a feeling of faintness she withdrew the letter . 
There it was sealed up , just as it had left her hands . 
The mountain had not yet been removed . 
She could not let him read it now , the house being in full bustle of preparation and descending to her own room she destroyed the letter there . 
She was so pale when he saw her again that he felt quite anxious . 
The incident of the misplaced letter she had jumped at as if it prevented a confession but she knew in her conscience that it need not there was still time . 
The only minute Tess could get to be alone with Clare was when they met upon the landing . 
I am so anxious to talk to you I want to confess all my faults and blunders ! she said with attempted lightness . 
No , no we can't have faults talked of you must be deemed perfect today at least , my Sweet ! he cried . 
We shall have plenty of time , hereafter , I hope , to talk over our failings . 
I will confess mine at the same time . 
I , too , will tell you my faults then . 
But do not let us spoil the day with them they will be excellent matter for a dull time . 
Then you don't wish me to , dearest ? I do not , Tessy , really . 
The hurry of dressing and starting left no time for more than this . 
Those words of his seemed to reassure her on further reflection . 
She was whirled onward through the next couple of critical hours by the mastering tide of her devotion to him , which closed up further meditation . 
In dressing , she moved about in a mental cloud of many coloured idealities , which eclipsed all sinister contingencies by its brightness . 
The church was a long way off , and they were obliged to drive , particularly as it was winter . 
A close carriage was ordered from a roadside inn , a vehicle which had been kept there ever since the old days of post chaise travelling . 
It had stout wheel spokes , and heavy felloes , a great curved bed , immense straps and springs , and a pole like a battering ram . 
Inside this cumbrous and creaking structure , and behind this decayed conductor , the PARTIE CARREE took their seats the bride and bridegroom and Mr and Mrs Crick . 
They disapproved of the marriage , and could not be expected to countenance it . 
Perhaps it was as well that they could not be present . 
They were not worldly young fellows , but fraternizing with dairy folk would have struck unpleasantly upon their biassed niceness , apart from their view of the match . 
Upheld by the momentum of the time Tess knew nothing of this did not see anything did not know the road they were taking to the church . 
She knew that Angel was close to her all the rest was a luminous mist . 
She was a sort of celestial person , who owed her being to poetry one of those classical divinities Clare was accustomed to talk to her about when they took their walk together . 
The marriage being by licence there were only a dozen or so of people in the church had there been a thousand they would have produced no more effect upon her . 
They were at stellar distances from her present world . 
In the ecstatic solemnity with which she swore her faith to him the ordinary sensibilities of sex seemed a flippancy . 
Sitting in silence she regarded it long . 
I fancy you seem oppressed , Tessy , said Clare . 
Yes , she answered , putting her hand to her brow . 
I tremble at many things . 
It is all so serious , Angel . 
Among other things I seem to have seen this carriage before , to very well acquainted with it . 
It is very odd I must have seen it in a dream . 
I have never heard of it to my knowledge , said she . 
What is the legend may I know it ? Well I would rather not tell it in detail just now . 
Evidently some dim knowledge of it has been brought back to your mind by the sight of this venerable caravan . 
I don't remember hearing it before , she murmured . 
By the time they reached home she was contrite and spiritless . 
However , when she found herself alone in her room for a few minutes the last day this on which she was ever to enter it she knelt down and prayed . 
She tried to pray to God , but it was her husband who really had her supplication . 
Her idolatry of this man was such that she herself almost feared it to be ill omened . 
She was conscious of the notion expressed by Friar Laurence These violent delights have violent ends . 
It might be too desperate for human conditions too rank , to wild , too deadly . 
At two o'clock there was nothing left to do but to start . 
All the servantry of the dairy were standing in the red brick entry to see them go out , the dairyman and his wife following to the door . 
Tess saw her three chamber mates in a row against the wall , pensively inclining their heads . 
She had much questioned if they would appear at the parting moment but there they were , stoical and staunch to the last . 
She knew why the delicate Retty looked to fragile , and Izz so tragically sorrowful and Marian so blank and she forgot her own dogging shadow for a moment in contemplating theirs . 
When they reached the door Tess femininely glanced back to discern the effect of that kiss of charity there was no triumph in her glance , as there might have been . 
If there had it would have disappeared when she saw how moved the girls all were . 
The kiss had obviously done harm by awakening feelings they were trying to subdue . 
Of all this Clare was unconscious . 
It was interrupted by the crowing of a cock . 
Oh ? said Mrs Crick . 
An afternoon crow ! Two men were standing by the yard gate , holding it open . 
That's bad , one murmured to the other , not thinking that the words could be heard by the group at the door wicket . 
The cock crew again straight towards Clare . 
Well ! said the dairyman . 
I don't like to hear him ! said Tess to her husband . 
Tell the man to drive on . 
Goodbye , goodbye ! The cock crew again . 
Hoosh ! Just you be off , sir , or I'll twist your neck ! said the dairyman with some irritation , turning to the bird and driving him away . 
And to his wife as they went indoors Now , to think o' that just today ! I've not heard his crow of an afternoon all the year afore . 
Welcome to one of your ancestral mansions ! said Clare as he handed her down . 
But he regretted the pleasantry it was too near a satire . 
The absoluteness of possession pleased them , and they realized it as the first moment of their experience under their own exclusive roof tree . 
But he found that the mouldy old habitation somewhat depressed his bride . 
When the carriage was gone they ascended the stairs to wash their hands , the charwoman showing the way . 
On the landing Tess stopped and started . 
What's the matter ? said he . 
Those horrid women ! she answered with a smile . 
He looked up , and perceived two life size portraits on panels built into the masonry . 
Whose portraits are those ? asked Clare of the charwoman . 
The unpleasantness of the matter was that , in addition to their effect upon Tess , her fine features were unquestionably traceable in these exaggerated forms . 
The place having been rather hastily prepared for them they washed their hands in one basin . 
Clare touched hers under the water . 
Which are my fingers and which are yours ? he said , looking up . 
They are very much mixed . 
They are all yours , said she , very prettily , and endeavoured to be gayer than she was . 
They went into the ancient parlour to tea , and here they shared their first common meal alone . 
He wondered a little that she did not enter into these frivolities with his own zest . 
Looking at her silently for a long time She is a dear dear Tess , he thought to himself , as one deciding on the true construction of a difficult passage . 
Do I realize solemnly enough how utterly and irretrievably this little womanly thing is the creature of my good or bad faith and fortune ? I think not . 
I think I could not , unless I were a woman myself . 
What I am in worldly estate , she is . 
What I become , she must become . 
What I cannot be , she cannot be . 
But evening began to close in , and the luggage did not arrive , and they had brought nothing more than they stood in . 
With the departure of the sun the calm mood of the winter day changed . 
It soon began to rain . 
That cock knew the weather was going to change , said Clare . 
The woman who had attended upon them had gone home for the night , but she had placed candles upon the table , and now they lit them . 
Each candle flame drew towards the fireplace . 
These old houses are so draughty , continued Angel , looking at the flames , and at the grease guttering down the sides . 
I wonder where that luggage is . 
We haven't even a brush and comb . 
I don't know , she answered , absent minded . 
Tess , you are not a bit cheerful this evening not at all as you used to be . 
Those harridans on the panels upstairs have unsettled you . 
I am sorry I brought you here . 
Though she tried not to shed tears she could not help showing one or two . 
I did not mean it ! said he , sorry . 
You are worried at not having your things , I know . 
I cannot think why old Jonathan has not come with them . 
He returned to the room with a small package in his hand . 
It is not Jonathan , after all , he said . 
How vexing ! said Tess . 
Clare brought it to the light . 
It was less than a foot long , sewed up in canvas , sealed in red wax with his father's seal , and directed in his father's hand to Mrs Angel Clare . 
It is a little wedding present for you , Tess , said he , handing it to her . 
How thoughtful they are ! Tess looked a little flustered as she took it . 
I think I would rather have you open it , dearest , said she , turning over the parcel . 
I don't like to break those great seals they look so serious . 
Please open it for me ! He undid the parcel . 
Inside was a case of morocco leather , on the top of which lay a note and a key . 
This trust I have fulfilled , and the diamonds have been locked up at my banker's ever since . 
They become , I believe , heirlooms , strictly speaking , according to the terms of your godmother's will . 
The precise words of the clause that refers to this matter are enclosed . 
I do remember , said Clare but I had quite forgotten . 
Unlocking the case , they found it to contain a necklace , with pendant , bracelets , and ear rings and also some other small ornaments . 
Tess seemed afraid to touch them at first , but her eyes sparkled for a moment as much as the stones when Clare spread out the set . 
Are they mine ? she asked incredulously . 
They are , certainly , said he . 
He looked into the fire . 
There had seemed nothing at all out of keeping with such a conjectured career in the storing up of these showy ornaments for his wife and the wives of her descendants . 
They gleamed somewhat ironically now . 
Yet why ? he asked himself . 
It was but a question of vanity throughout and if that were admitted into one side of the equation it should be admitted into the other . 
But as if by magic she had already donned them necklace , ear rings , bracelets , and all . 
But the gown isn't right , Tess , said Clare . 
It ought to be a low one for a set of brilliants like that . 
Ought it ? said Tess . 
He had never till now estimated the artistic excellence of Tess's limbs and features . 
If you were only to appear in a ball room ! he said . 
But no no , dearest I think I love you best in the wing bonnet and cotton frock yes , better than in this , well as you support these dignities . 
Tess's sense of her striking appearance had given her a flush of excitement , which was yet not happiness . 
I'll take them off , she said , in case Jonathan should see me . 
They are not fit for me , are they ? They must be sold , I suppose ? Let them stay a few minutes longer . 
It would be a breach of faith . 
Influenced by a second thought she readily obeyed . 
She had something to tell , and there might be help in these . 
She sat down with the jewels upon her and they again indulged in conjectures as to where Jonathan could possibly be with their baggage . 
The ale they had poured out for his consumption when he came had gone flat with long standing . 
Shortly after this they began supper , which was already laid on a side table . 
It had been caused by the opening of the outer door . 
A heavy step was now heard in the passage , and Angel went out . 
I couldn' make nobody hear at all by knocking , apologized Jonathan Kail , for it was he at last and as't was raining out I opened the door . 
I've brought the things , sir . 
I am very glad to see them . 
But you are very late . 
Well , yes , sir . 
There was something subdued in Jonathan Kail's tone which had not been there in the day , and lines of concern were ploughed upon his forehead in addition to the lines of years . 
He continued We've all been gallied at the dairy at what might ha' been a most terrible affliction since you and your Mis'ess so to name her now left us this a'ternoon . 
No ! Really ! Why , she bade us goodbye with the rest Yes . 
Nothing more was zeed or heard o' Retty till the waterman , on his way home , noticed something by the Great Pool 'twas her bonnet and shawl packed up . 
In the water he found her . 
He and another man brought her home , thinking a' was dead but she fetched round by degrees . 
It seems as if the maids had all gone out o' their minds ! And Izz ? asked Tess . 
Jonathan's footsteps then died from the door , and his cart creaked away . 
Angel slid forward the massive oak bar which secured the door , and coming in to where she sat over the hearth , pressed her cheeks between his hands from behind . 
I am so sorry you should have heard this sad story about the girls , he said . 
Still , don't let it depress you . 
Retty was naturally morbid , you know . 
Without the least cause , said Tess . 
While they who have cause to be , hide it , and pretend they are not . 
This incident had turned the scale for her . 
They were simple and innocent girls on whom the unhappiness of unrequited love had fallen they had deserved better at the hands of Fate . 
She had deserved worse yet she was the chosen one . 
It was wicked of her to take all without paying . 
She would pay to the uttermost farthing she would tell , there and then . 
This final determination she came to when she looked into the fire , he holding her hand . 
The underside of the mantel shelf was flushed with the high coloured light , and the legs of the table nearest the fire . 
Do you remember what we said to each other this morning about telling our faults ? he asked abruptly , finding that she still remained immovable . 
We spoke lightly perhaps , and you may well have done so . 
But for me it was no light promise . 
I want to make a confession to you , Love . 
This , from him , so unexpectedly apposite , had the effect upon her of a Providential interposition . 
You have to confess something ? she said quickly , and even with gladness and relief . 
You did not expect it ? Ah you thought too highly of me . 
Put your head there , because I want you to forgive me , and not to be indignant with me for not telling you before , as perhaps I ought to have done . 
How strange it was ! He seemed to be her double . 
My brother's Fellowship was won at his college , mine at Talbothays Dairy . 
Well , I would not risk it . 
I was going to tell you a month ago at the time you agreed to be mine , but I could not I thought it might frighten you away from me . 
I put it off then I thought I would tell you yesterday , to give you a chance at least of escaping me . 
I wonder if you will forgive me ? O yes ! I am sure that Well , I hope so . 
To begin at the beginning . 
I used to wish to be a teacher of men , and it was a great disappointment to me when I found I could not enter the Church . 
I admired spotlessness , even though I could lay no claim to it , and hated impurity , as I hope I do now . 
It is the only safeguard for us poor human beings . 
Happily I awoke almost immediately to a sense of my folly , he continued . 
I would have no more to say to her , and I came home . 
I have never repeated the offence . 
But I felt I should like to treat you with perfect frankness and honour , and I could not do so without telling this . 
Do you forgive me ? She pressed his hand tightly for an answer . 
Then we will dismiss it at once and for ever ! too painful as it is for the occasion and talk of something lighter . 
O , Angel I am almost glad because now YOU can forgive ME ! I have not made my confession . 
I have a confession , too remember , I said so . 
Ah , to be sure ! Now then for it , wicked little one . 
Perhaps , although you smile , it is as serious as yours , or more so . 
It can hardly be more serious , dearest . 
It cannot O no , it cannot ! She jumped up joyfully at the hope . 
No , it cannot be more serious , certainly , she cried , because 'tis just the same ! I will tell you now . 
Their hands were still joined . 
The ashes under the grate were lit by the fire vertically , like a torrid waste . 
A large shadow of her shape rose upon the wall and ceiling . 
END OF PHASE THE FOURTH Phase the Fifth The Woman Pays XXXV Her narrative ended even its re assertions and secondary explanations were done . 
Tess's voice throughout had hardly risen higher than its opening tone there had been no exculpatory phrase of any kind , and she had not wept . 
But the complexion even of external things seemed to suffer transmutation as her announcement progressed . 
The fire in the grate looked impish demoniacally funny , as if it did not care in the least about her strait . 
The fender grinned idly , as if it too did not care . 
The light from the water bottle was merely engaged in a chromatic problem . 
All material objects around announced their irresponsibility with terrible iteration . 
And yet nothing had changed since the moments when he had been kissing her or rather , nothing in the substance of things . 
But the essence of things had changed . 
When she ceased the auricular impressions from their previous endearments seemed to hustle away into the corner of their brains , repeating themselves as echoes from a time of supremely purblind foolishness . 
Clare performed the irrelevant act of stirring the fire the intelligence had not even yet got to the bottom of him . 
After stirring the embers he rose to his feet all the force of her disclosure had imparted itself now . 
In the strenuousness of his concentration he treadled fitfully on the floor . 
He could not , by any contrivance , think closely enough that was the meaning of his vague movement . 
When he spoke it was in the most inadequate , commonplace voice of the many varied tones she had heard from him . 
Tess ! Yes , dearest . 
Am I to believe this ? From your manner I am to take it as true . 
O you cannot be out of your mind ! You ought to be ! Yet you are not . 
My wife , my Tess nothing in you warrants such a supposition as that ? I am not out of my mind , she said . 
He turned away , and bent over a chair . 
Tess followed him to the middle of the room where he was , and stood there staring at him with eyes that did not weep . 
Presently she slid down upon her knees beside his foot , and from this position she crouched in a heap . 
In the name of our love , forgive me ! she whispered with a dry mouth . 
I have forgiven you for the same ! And , as he did not answer , she said again Forgive me as you are forgiven ! I forgive YOU , Angel . 
You yes , you do . 
But you do not forgive me ? O Tess , forgiveness does not apply to the case ! You were one person now you are another . 
Don't don't ! It kills me quite , that ! she shrieked . 
O have mercy upon me have mercy ! He did not answer and , sickly white , she jumped up . 
Angel , Angel ! what do you mean by that laugh ? she cried out . 
Do you know what this is to me ? He shook his head . 
Then how can you , O my own husband , stop loving me ? I repeat , the woman I have been loving is not you . 
But who ? Another woman in your shape . 
She perceived in his words the realization of her own apprehensive foreboding in former times . 
He looked upon her as a species of imposter a guilty woman in the guise of an innocent one . 
Terror was upon her white face as she saw it her cheek was flaccid , and her mouth had almost the aspect of a round little hole . 
The horrible sense of his view of her so deadened her that she staggered and he stepped forward , thinking she was going to fall . 
Sit down , sit down , he said gently . 
You are ill and it is natural that you should be . 
She did sit down , without knowing where she was , that strained look still upon her face , and her eyes such as to make his flesh creep . 
I don't belong to you any more , then do I , Angel ? she asked helplessly . 
It is not me , but another woman like me that he loved , he says . 
The image raised caused her to take pity upon herself as one who was ill used . 
Her eyes filled as she regarded her position further she turned round and burst into a flood of self sympathetic tears . 
Clare was relieved at this change , for the effect on her of what had happened was beginning to be a trouble to him only less than the woe of the disclosure itself . 
He waited patiently , apathetically , till the violence of her grief had worn itself out , and her rush of weeping had lessened to a catching gasp at intervals . 
Angel , she said suddenly , in her natural tones , the insane , dry voice of terror having left her now . 
Angel , am I too wicked for you and me to live together ? I have not been able to think what we can do . 
And if I order you to do anything ? I will obey you like your wretched slave , even if it is to lie down and die . 
But it strikes me that there is a want of harmony between your present mood of self sacrifice and your past mood of self preservation . 
These were the first words of antagonism . 
To fling elaborate sarcasms at Tess , however , was much like flinging them at a dog or cat . 
The charms of their subtlety passed by her unappreciated , and she only received them as inimical sounds which meant that anger ruled . 
She remained mute , not knowing that he was smothering his affection for her . 
Some consequent action was necessary yet what ? Tess , he said , as gently as he could speak , I cannot stay in this room just now . 
I will walk out a little way . 
He quietly left the room , and the two glasses of wine that he had poured out for their supper one for her , one for him remained on the table untasted . 
This was what their AGAPE had come to . 
At tea , two or three hours earlier , they had , in the freakishness of affection , drunk from one cup . 
The closing of the door behind him , gently as it had been pulled to , roused Tess from her stupor . 
He was gone she could not stay . 
Hastily flinging her cloak around her she opened the door and followed , putting out the candles as if she were never coming back . 
The rain was over and the night was now clear . 
She was soon close at his heels , for Clare walked slowly and without purpose . 
His form beside her light gray figure looked black , sinister , and forbidding , and she felt as sarcasm the touch of the jewels of which she had been momentarily so proud . 
The cow and horse tracks in the road were full of water , and rain having been enough to charge them , but not enough to wash them away . 
At last , however , her listless walk brought her up alongside him , and still he said nothing . 
The cruelty of fooled honesty is often great after enlightenment , and it was mighty in Clare now . 
He was still intently thinking , and her companionship had now insufficient power to break or divert the strain of thought . 
What a weak thing her presence must have become to him ! She could not help addressing Clare . 
What have I done what HAVE I done ! I have not told of anything that interferes with or belies my love for you . 
You don't think I planned it , do you ? It is in your own mind what you are angry at , Angel it is not in me . 
O , it is not in me , and I am not that deceitful woman you think me ! H'm well . 
Not deceitful , my wife but not the same . 
No , not the same . 
But do not make me reproach you . 
I have sworn that I will not and I will do everything to avoid it . 
But she went on pleading in her distraction and perhaps said things that would have been better left to silence . 
Angel ! Angel ! I was a child a child when it happened ! I knew nothing of men . 
You were more sinned against than sinning , that I admit . 
Then will you not forgive me ? I do forgive you , but forgiveness is not all . 
And love me ? To this question he did not answer . 
And yet the woman had not loved him as I do you ! Don't , Tess don't argue . 
Different societies , different manners . 
You almost make me say you are an unapprehending peasant woman , who have never been initiated into the proportions of social things . 
You don't know what you say . 
I am only a peasant by position , not by nature ! She spoke with an impulse to anger , but it went as it came . 
So much the worse for you . 
I think that parson who unearthed your pedigree would have done better if he had held his tongue . 
I cannot help associating your decline as a family with this other fact of your want of firmness . 
Decrepit families imply decrepit wills , decrepit conduct . 
And the Debbyhouses , who now are carters , were once the De Bayeux family . 
You find such as I everywhere 'tis a feature of our county , and I can't help it . 
So much the worse for the county . 
She took these reproaches in their bulk simply , not in their particulars he did not love her as he had loved her hitherto , and to all else she was indifferent . 
They wandered on again in silence . 
Returning later , he passed them again in the same field , progressing just as slowly , and as regardless of the hour and of the cheerless night as before . 
The river is down there . 
I can put an end to myself in it . 
I don't wish to add murder to my other follies , he said . 
I will leave something to show that I did it myself on account of my shame . 
They will not blame you then . 
Don't speak so absurdly I wish not to hear it . 
It is nonsense to have such thoughts in this kind of case , which is rather one for satirical laughter than for tragedy . 
You don't in the least understand the quality of the mishap . 
It would be viewed in the light of a joke by nine tenths of the world if it were known . 
Please oblige me by returning to the house , and going to bed . 
I will , said she dutifully . 
The mill still worked on , food being a perennial necessity the abbey had perished , creeds being transient . 
One continually sees the ministration of the temporary outlasting the ministration of the eternal . 
When she got back everything remained as she had left it , the fire being still burning . 
She did not stay downstairs for more than a minute , but proceeded to her chamber , whither the luggage had been taken . 
Here she sat down on the edge of the bed , looking blankly around , and presently began to undress . 
In removing the light towards the bedstead its rays fell upon the tester of white dimity something was hanging beneath it , and she lifted the candle to see what it was . 
Angel had put it there she knew that in an instant . 
In his zest and his gaiety he had hung it there . 
How foolish and inopportune that mistletoe looked now . 
Having nothing more to fear , having scarce anything to hope , for that he would relent there seemed no promise whatever , she lay down dully . 
When sorrow ceases to be speculative sleep sees her opportunity . 
Later on that night Clare also retraced his steps to the house . 
Before lying down he crept shoeless upstairs , and listened at the door of her apartment . 
Her measured breathing told that she was sleeping profoundly . 
He turned away to descend then , irresolute , faced round to her door again . 
In the act he caught sight of one of the d'Urberville dames , whose portrait was immediately over the entrance to Tess's bedchamber . 
In the candlelight the painting was more than unpleasant . 
Sinister design lurked in the woman's features , a concentrated purpose of revenge on the other sex so it seemed to him then . 
He resumed his retreat and descended . 
His air remained calm and cold , his small compressed mouth indexing his powers of self control his face wearing still that terrible sterile expression which had spread thereon since her disclosure . 
It was the face of a man who was no longer passion's slave , yet who found no advantage in his enfranchisement . 
He was simply regarding the harrowing contingencies of human experience , the unexpectedness of things . 
XXXVI Clare arose in the light of a dawn that was ashy and furtive , as though associated with crime . 
He remembered that it would be the neighbouring cottager's wife , who was to minister to their wants while they remained here . 
She had a milk can in her hand , which he told her to leave at the door . 
When the dame had gone away he searched in the back quarters of the house for fuel , and speedily lit a fire . 
When , after a short space , he came back she was already in the sitting room mechanically readjusting the breakfast things . 
Her hands and face appeared to be cold , and she had possibly been sitting dressed in the bedroom a long time without any fire . 
The marked civility of Clare's tone in calling her seemed to have inspired her , for the moment , with a new glimmer of hope . 
But it soon died when she looked at him . 
The pair were , in truth , but the ashes of their former fires . 
To the hot sorrow of the previous night had succeeded heaviness it seemed as if nothing could kindle either of them to fervour of sensation any more . 
He spoke gently to her , and she replied with a like undemonstrativeness . 
At last she came up to him , looking in his sharply defined face as one who had no consciousness that her own formed a visible object also . 
Nature , in her fantastic trickery , had set such a seal of maidenhood upon Tess's countenance that he gazed at her with a stupefied air . 
Tess ! Say it is not true ! No , it is not true ! It is true . 
Every word ? Every word . 
However , she only repeated It is true . 
Is he living ? Angel then asked . 
But the man ? He is alive . 
A last despair passed over Clare's face . 
Is he in England ? Yes . 
He took a few vague steps . 
My position is this , he said abruptly . 
Tess felt his position so entirely that the remainder had not been needed . 
Therein lay just the distress of it she saw that he had lost all round . 
A last way ? I mean , to get rid of me . 
You CAN get rid of me . 
How ? By divorcing me . 
Good heavens how can you be so simple ! How can I divorce you ? Can't you now I have told you ? I thought my confession would give you grounds for that . 
O Tess you are too , too childish unformed crude , I suppose ! I don't know what you are . 
You don't understand the law you don't understand ! What you cannot ? Indeed I cannot . 
A quick shame mixed with the misery upon his listener's face . 
I thought I thought , she whispered . 
O , then I ought to have done it , to have done it last night ! But I hadn't the courage . 
That's just like me ! The courage to do what ? As she did not answer he took her by the hand . 
What were you thinking of doing ? he inquired . 
Of putting an end to myself . 
When ? She writhed under this inquisitorial manner of his . 
Last night , she answered . 
Where ? Under your mistletoe . 
My good ! How ? he asked sternly . 
I'll tell you , if you won't be angry with me ! she said , shrinking . 
It was with the cord of my box . 
But I could not do the last thing ! I was afraid that it might cause a scandal to your name . 
The unexpected quality of this confession , wrung from her , and not volunteered , shook him perceptibly . 
But he still held her , and , letting his glance fall from her face downwards , he said , Now , listen to this . 
You must not dare to think of such a horrible thing ! How could you ! You will promise me as your husband to attempt that no more . 
I am ready to promise . 
I saw how wicked it was . 
Wicked ! The idea was unworthy of you beyond description . 
I should never have dreamt of doing it on mine . 
However , to do it with my own hand is too good for me , after all . 
It is you , my ruined husband , who ought to strike the blow . 
I think I should love you more , if that were possible , if you could bring yourself to do it , since there's no other way of escape for 'ee . 
I feel I am so utterly worthless ! So very greatly in the way ! Ssh ! Well , since you say no , I won't . 
I have no wish opposed to yours . 
He knew this to be true enough . 
Since the desperation of the night her activities had dropped to zero , and there was no further rashness to be feared . 
Tess tried to busy herself again over the breakfast table with more or less success , and they sat down both on the same side , so that their glances did not meet . 
There was at first something awkward in hearing each other eat and drink , but this could not be escaped moreover , the amount of eating done was small on both sides . 
When he was gone Tess stood at the window , and presently saw his form crossing the great stone bridge which conducted to the mill premises . 
He sank behind it , crossed the railway beyond , and disappeared . 
Then , without a sigh , she turned her attention to the room , and began clearing the table and setting it in order . 
Her presence was at first a strain upon Tess , but afterwards an alleviation . 
At half past twelve she left her assistant alone in the kitchen , and , returning to the sitting room , waited for the reappearance of Angel's form behind the bridge . 
About one he showed himself . 
Her face flushed , although he was a quarter of a mile off . 
She ran to the kitchen to get the dinner served by the time he should enter . 
How punctual ! he said . 
I saw you coming over the bridge , said she . 
He left the house again in the course of an hour , coming home at dusk , and occupying himself through the evening with his papers . 
Clare's shape appeared at the door . 
You must not work like this , he said . 
You are not my servant you are my wife . 
She raised her eyes , and brightened somewhat . 
I may think myself that indeed ? she murmured , in piteous raillery . 
You mean in name ! Well , I don't want to be anything more . 
You MAY think so , Tess ! You are . 
What do you mean ? I don't know , she said hastily , with tears in her accents . 
I thought I because I am not respectable , I mean . 
It would almost have won round any man but Angel Clare . 
It had blocked his acceptance of the Church it blocked his acceptance of Tess . 
He waited till her sobbing ceased . 
I wish half the women in England were as respectable as you , he said , in an ebullition of bitterness against womankind in general . 
There was , it is true , underneath , a back current of sympathy through which a woman of the world might have conquered him . 
But Tess did not think of this she took everything as her deserts , and hardly opened her mouth . 
She might just now have been Apostolic Charity herself returned to a self seeking modern world . 
This evening , night , and morning were passed precisely as the preceding ones had been passed . 
On one , and only one , occasion did she the formerly free and independent Tess venture to make any advances . 
It was on the third occasion of his starting after a meal to go out to the flour mill . 
As he was leaving the table he said Goodbye , and she replied in the same words , at the same time inclining her mouth in the way of his . 
He did not avail himself of the invitation , saying , as he turned hastily aside I shall be home punctually . 
Tess shrank into herself as if she had been struck . 
But he did not care for them now . 
He observed her sudden shrinking , and said gently You know , I have to think of a course . 
It was imperative that we should stay together a little while , to avoid the scandal to you that would have resulted from our immediate parting . 
But you must see it is only for form's sake . 
Yes , said Tess absently . 
He went out , and on his way to the mill stood still , and wished for a moment that he had responded yet more kindly , and kissed her once at least . 
Thus they lived through this despairing day or two in the same house , truly but more widely apart than before they were lovers . 
It was evident to her that he was , as he had said , living with paralyzed activities , in his endeavour to think of a plan of procedure . 
She was awe strikin to discover such determination under such apparent flexibility . 
His consistency was , indeed , too cruel . 
She no longer expected forgiveness now . 
Meanwhile Clare was meditating , verily . 
His thought had been unsuspended he was becoming ill with thinking eaten out with thinking , withered by thinking scourged out of all his former pulsating flexuous domesticity . 
He walked about saying to himself , What's to be done what's to be done ? and by chance she overheard him . 
It caused her to break the reserve about their future which had hitherto prevailed . 
I cannot he said , without despising myself , and what is worse , perhaps , despising you . 
I mean , of course , cannot live with you in the ordinary sense . 
At present , whatever I feel , I do not despise you . 
And , let me speak plainly , or you may not see all my difficulties . 
How can we live together while that man lives ? he being your husband in nature , and not I. If he were dead it might be different . 
Besides , that's not all the difficulty it lies in another consideration one bearing upon the future of other people than ourselves . 
Think of years to come , and children being born to us , and this past matter getting known for it must get known . 
There is not an uttermost part of the earth but somebody comes from it or goes to it from elsewhere . 
Well , think of wretches of our flesh and blood growing up under a taunt which they will gradually get to feel the full force of with their expanding years . 
I cannot say 'Remain , she answered , I cannot I had not thought so far . 
Though unsophisticated in the usual sense , she was not incomplete and it would have denoted deficiency of womanhood if she had not instinctively known what an argument lies in propinquity . 
Nothing else would serve her , she knew , if this failed . 
It was wrong to hope in what was of the nature of strategy , she said to herself yet that sort of hope she could not extinguish . 
His last representation had now been made , and it was , as she said , a new view . 
She therefore could not withstand his argument . 
But with the self combating proclivity of the supersensitive , an answer thereto arose in Clare's own mind , and he almost feared it . 
It was based on her exceptional physical nature and she might have used it promisingly . 
And she may have been right . 
It was the third day of the estrangement . 
Some might risk the odd paradox that with more animalism he would have been the nobler man . 
We do not say it . 
Yet Clare's love was doubtless ethereal to a fault , imaginative to impracticability . 
With these natures , corporal presence is something less appealing than corporal absence the latter creating an ideal presence that conveniently drops the defects of the real . 
She found that her personality did not plead her cause so forcibly as she had anticipated . 
The figurative phrase was true she was another woman than the one who had excited his desire . 
It is quite true all of it it must be . 
You must go away from me . 
But what can you do ? I can go home . 
Clare had not thought of that . 
Are you sure ? he inquired . 
We ought to part , and we may as well get it past and done . 
And you would like to go home ? he asked . 
I want to leave you , and go home . 
Then it shall be so . 
Though she did not look up at him , she started . 
There was a difference between the proposition and the covenant which she had felt only too quickly . 
I feared it would come to this , she murmured , her countenance meekly fixed . 
I don't complain , Angel , I I think it best . 
What you said has quite convinced me . 
O , what only hurts me now would torture and kill me then ! I will go tomorrow . 
And I shall not stay here . 
Tess stole a glance at her husband . 
Propensities , tendencies , habits , were as dead leaves upon the tyrannous wind of his imaginative ascendency . 
XXXVII Midnight came and passed silently , for there was nothing to announce it in the Valley of the Froom . 
Not long after one o'clock there was a slight creak in the darkened farmhouse once the mansion of the d'Urbervilles . 
Tess , who used the upper chamber , heard it and awoke . 
It had come from the corner step of the staircase , which , as usual , was loosely nailed . 
She saw the door of her bedroom open , and the figure of her husband crossed the stream of moonlight with a curiously careful tread . 
He was in his shirt and trousers only , and her first flush of joy died when she perceived that his eyes were fixed in an unnatural stare on vacancy . 
Tess saw that continued mental distress had wrought him into that somnambulistic state now . 
Her loyal confidence in him lay so deep down in her heart , that , awake or asleep , he inspired her with no sort of personal fear . 
If he had entered with a pistol in his hand he would scarcely have disturbed her trust in his protectiveness . 
Clare came close , and bent over her . 
Dead , dead , dead ! he murmured . 
If it had been to save her weary life she would not , by moving or struggling , have put an end to the position she found herself in . 
Thus she lay in absolute stillness , scarcely venturing to breathe , and , wondering what he was going to do with her , suffered herself to be borne out upon the landing . 
My wife dead , dead ! he said . 
He paused in his labours for a moment to lean with her against the banister . 
If they could only fall together , and both be dashed to pieces , how fit , how desirable . 
However , he did not let her fall , but took advantage of the support of the handrail to imprint a kiss upon her lips lips in the daytime scorned . 
Then he clasped her with a renewed firmness of hold , and descended the staircase . 
The creak of the loose stair did not awaken him , and they reached the ground floor safely . 
Thus he bore her off the premises in the direction of the river a few yards distant . 
His ultimate intention , if he had any , she had not yet divined and she found herself conjecturing on the matter as a third person might have done . 
So easefully had she delivered her whole being up to him that it pleased her to think he was regarding her as his absolute possession , to dispose of as he should choose . 
Clare did not cross the bridge with her , but proceeding several paces on the same side towards the adjoining mill , at length stood still on the brink of the river . 
Opposite the spot to which he had brought her was such a general confluence , and the river was proportionately voluminous and deep . 
Her husband had possibly observed the same performance anyhow , he now mounted the plank , and , sliding one foot forward , advanced along it . 
Was he going to drown her ? Probably he was . 
The spot was lonely , the river deep and wide enough to make such a purpose easy of accomplishment . 
He might drown her if he would it would be better than parting tomorrow to lead severed lives . 
The swift stream raced and gyrated under them , tossing , distorting , and splitting the moon's reflected face . 
Spots of froth travelled past , and intercepted weeds waved behind the piles . 
The impulse stirred in her , yet she dared not indulge it , to make a movement that would have precipitated them both into the gulf . 
How she valued her own life had been proved but his she had no right to tamper with it . 
He reached the other side with her in safety . 
Against the north wall was the empty stone coffin of an abbot , in which every tourist with a turn for grim humour was accustomed to stretch himself . 
In this Clare carefully laid Tess . 
Having kissed her lips a second time he breathed deeply , as if a greatly desired end were attained . 
Clare then lay down on the ground alongside , when he immediately fell into the deep dead slumber of exhaustion , and remained motionless as a log . 
The spurt of mental excitement which had produced the effort was now over . 
Tess sat up in the coffin . 
The night , though dry and mild for the season , was more than sufficiently cold to make it dangerous for him to remain here long , in his half clothed state . 
If he were left to himself he would in all probability stay there till the morning , and be chilled to certain death . 
She had heard of such deaths after sleep walking . 
It was indispensable to do something , for she was beginning to shiver , the sheet being but a poor protection . 
Her excitement had in a measure kept her warm during the few minutes' adventure but that beatific interval was over . 
Thus she conducted him by the arm to the stone bridge in front of their residence , crossing which they stood at the manor house door . 
Tess's feet were quite bare , and the stones hurt her , and chilled her to the bone but Clare was in his woollen stockings , and appeared to feel no discomfort . 
There was no further difficulty . 
She induced him to lie down on his own sofa bed , and covered him up warmly , lighting a temporary fire of wood , to dry any dampness out of him . 
The noise of these attentions she thought might awaken him , and secretly wished that they might . 
But the exhaustion of his mind and body was such that he remained undisturbed . 
But the realities of his situation soon displaced conjecture on the other subject . 
It was too much like laughing at a man when sober for his erratic deeds during intoxication . 
He had ordered by letter a vehicle from the nearest town , and soon after breakfast it arrived . 
Beyond this there was nothing in the manner of their leaving to suggest a FIASCO , or that they were not going together to visit friends . 
The gold of the summer picture was now gray , the colours mean , the rich soil mud , and the river cold . 
Then Mrs Crick emerged from the house , and several others of their old acquaintance , though Marian and Retty did not seem to be there . 
Tess valiantly bore their sly attacks and friendly humours , which affected her far otherwise than they supposed . 
In the tacit agreement of husband and wife to keep their estrangement a secret they behaved as would have been ordinary . 
And then , although she would rather there had been no word spoken on the subject , Tess had to hear in detail the story of Marian and Retty . 
The later had gone home to her father's and Marian had left to look for employment elsewhere . 
They feared she would come to no good . 
They re entered the vehicle , and were driven along the roads towards Weatherbury and Stagfoot Lane , till they reached the Lane inn , where Clare dismissed the fly and man . 
They rested here a while , and entering the Vale were next driven onward towards her home by a stranger who did not know their relations . 
Now , let us understand each other , he said gently . 
There is no anger between us , though there is that which I cannot endure at present . 
I will try to bring myself to endure it . 
I will let you know where I go to as soon as I know myself . 
And if I can bring myself to bear it if it is desirable , possible I will come to you . 
But until I come to you it will be better that you should not try to come to me . 
Yet could a woman who had done even what she had done deserve all this ? But she could contest the point with him no further . 
She simply repeated after him his own words . 
Until you come to me I must not try to come to you ? Just so . 
May I write to you ? O yes if you are ill , or want anything at all . 
I hope that will not be the case so that it may happen that I write first to you . 
But her mood of long suffering made his way easy for him , and she herself was his best advocate . 
The remainder of their discourse was on practical matters only . 
He now handed her a packet containing a fairly good sum of money , which he had obtained from his bankers for the purpose . 
, he advised her to let him send to a bank for safety and to this she readily agreed . 
These things arranged he walked with Tess back to the carriage , and handed her in . 
The coachman was paid and told where to drive her . 
Taking next his own bag and umbrella the sole articles he had brought with him hitherwards he bade her goodbye and they parted there and then . 
The fly moved creepingly up a hill , and Clare watched it go with an unpremeditated hope that Tess would look out of the window for one moment . 
But that she never thought of doing , would not have ventured to do , lying in a half dead faint inside . 
XXXVIII As she drove on through Blackmoor Vale , and the landscape of her youth began to open around her , Tess aroused herself from her stupor . 
Her first thought was how would she be able to face her parents ? She reached a turnpike gate which stood upon the highway to the village . 
Having received no intelligence lately from her home , she asked the turnpike keeper for news . 
Oh nothing , miss , he answered . 
Folks have died and that . 
Hearing this , Tess felt so sick at heart that she could not decide to go home publicly in the fly with her luggage and belongings . 
She did not reach the house unobserved . 
Just by the garden hedge she was met by a girl who knew her one of the two or three with whom she had been intimate at school . 
Having performed this without observing Tess , she went indoors , and her daughter followed her . 
Why Tess ! my chil' I thought you was married ! married really and truly this time we sent the cider Yes , mother so I am . 
Going to be ? No I am married . 
Married ! Then where's thy husband ? Oh , he's gone away for a time . 
Gone away ! When was you married , then ? The day you said ? Yes , Tuesday , mother . 
And now 'tis on'y Saturday , and he gone away ? Yes , he's gone . 
I don't know how to tell 'ee , mother ! You said to me , and wrote to me , that I was not to tell him . 
I know it I know I know ! she gasped through her sobs . 
He did not , however , enter immediately , and Mrs Durbeyfield said that she would break the bad news to him herself , Tess keeping out of sight for the present . 
Tess retreated upstairs and beheld casually that the beds had been shifted , and new arrangements made . 
Her old bed had been adapted for two younger children . 
There was no place here for her now . 
The room below being unceiled she could hear most of what went on there . 
Presently her father entered , apparently carrying in a live hen . 
He was a foot haggler now , having been obliged to sell his second horse , and he travelled with his basket on his arm . 
They was formerly styled 'sir' , like my own ancestry , he said , though nowadays their true style , strictly speaking , is 'clerk' only . 
As Tess had wished that no great publicity should be given to the event , he had mentioned no particulars . 
He hoped she would remove that prohibition soon . 
He proposed that the couple should take Tess's own name , d'Urberville , as uncorrupted . 
It was better than her husbands's . 
He asked if any letter had come from her that day . 
Then Mrs Durbeyfield informed him that no letter had come , but Tess unfortunately had come herself . 
When at length the collapse was explained to him a sullen mortification , not usual with Durbeyfield , overpowered the influence of the cheering glass . 
Yet the intrinsic quality of the event moved his touchy sensitiveness less than its conjectured effect upon the minds of others . 
To think , now , that this was to be the end o't ! said Sir John . 
But she can make him keep her if he's married her ? Why , yes . 
But she won't think o' doing that . 
D'ye think he really have married her ? or is it like the first Poor Tess , who had heard as far as this , could not bear to hear more . 
The perception that her word could be doubted even here , in her own parental house , set her mind against the spot as nothing else could have done . 
XXXIX It was three weeks after the marriage that Clare found himself descending the hill which led to the well known parsonage of his father . 
He was arriving like a ghost , and the sound of his own footsteps was almost an encumbrance to be got rid of . 
The picture of life had changed for him . 
Before this time he had known it but speculatively now he thought he knew it as a practical man though perhaps he did not , even yet . 
His conduct during these first weeks had been desultory beyond description . 
This is the chief thing be not perturbed , said the Pagan moralist . 
That was just Clare's own opinion . 
Let not your heart be troubled , neither let it be afraid , said the Nazarene . 
Clare chimed in cordially but his heart was troubled all the same . 
He was embittered by the conviction that all this desolation had been brought about by the accident of her being a d'Urberville . 
Then he became weary and anxious , and his anxiety increased . 
He wondered if he had treated her unfairly . 
He ate without knowing that he ate , and drank without tasting . 
Land was offered there on exceptionally advantageous terms . 
Brazil somewhat attracted him as a new idea . 
In brief he was strongly inclined to try Brazil , especially as the season for going thither was just at hand . 
Clare had given his parents no warning of his visit , and his arrival stirred the atmosphere of the Vicarage as the dive of the kingfisher stirs a quiet pool . 
His father and mother were both in the drawing room , but neither of his brothers was now at home . 
Angel entered , and closed the door quietly behind him . 
But where's your wife , dear Angel ? cried his mother . 
How you surprise us ! She is at her mother's temporarily . 
I have come home rather in a hurry because I've decided to go to Brazil . 
Brazil ! Why they are all Roman Catholics there surely ! Are they ? I hadn't thought of that . 
But even the novelty and painfulness of his going to a Papistical land could no displace for long Mr and Mrs Clare's natural interest in their son's marriage . 
We had your brief note three weeks ago announcing that it had taken place , said Mrs Clare , and your father sent your godmother's gift to her , as you know . 
It would have embarrassed you , and given us no pleasure . 
Your bothers felt that very strongly . 
Now it is done we do not complain , particularly if she suits you for the business you have chosen to follow instead of the ministry of the Gospel . 
Yet I wish I could have seen her first , Angel , or have known a little more about her . 
We sent her no present of our own , not knowing what would best give her pleasure , but you must suppose it only delayed . 
And now you have not brought her . 
What had happened ? He replied that it had been thought best by them that she should to go her parents' home for the present , whilst he came there . 
But this idea of Brazil is quite a recent one . 
If I do go it will be unadvisable for me to take her on this my first journey . 
She will remain at her mother's till I come back . 
And I shall not see her before you start ? He was afraid they would not . 
A hastily prepared supper was brought in , and Clare made further exposition of his plans . 
His mother's disappointment at not seeing the bride still remained with her . 
She watched her son as he ate . 
Cannot you describe her ? I am sure she is very pretty , Angel . 
Of that there can be no question ! he said , with a zest which covered its bitterness . 
And that she is pure and virtuous goes without question ? Pure and virtuous , of course , she is . 
I can see her quite distinctly . 
And living in such seclusion she naturally had scarce ever seen any young man from the world without till she saw you . 
You were her first love ? Of course . 
There are worse wives than these simple , rosy mouthed , robust girls of the farm . 
Certainly I could have wished well , since my son is to be an agriculturist , it is perhaps but proper that his wife should have been accustomed to an outdoor life . 
My dear son , your father has decided to read us the chapter in Proverbs in praise of a virtuous wife . 
We shall not need to be reminded to apply the words to the absent one . 
May Heaven shield her in all her ways ! A lump rose in Clare's throat . 
She riseth while it is yet night , and giveth meat to her household . 
She girdeth her loins with strength and strengtheneth her arms . 
She perceiveth that her merchandise is good her candle goeth not out by night . 
She looketh well to the ways of her household , and eateth not the bread of idleness . 
Her children arise up and call her blessed her husband also , and he praiseth her . 
Many daughters have done virtuously , but thou excellest them all . 
'Her children arise up and call her blessed her husband also , and he praiseth her . 
Many daughters have done virtuously , but she excelleth them all . 
Well , I wish I could have seen her , Angel . 
Since she is pure and chaste she would have been refined enough for me . 
Clare could bear this no longer . 
His eyes were full of tears , which seemed like drops of molten lead . 
He went to his own chamber . 
His mother followed him , and tapped at his door . 
Clare opened it to discover her standing without , with anxious eyes . 
Angel , she asked , is there something wrong that you do away so soon ? I am quite sure you are not yourself . 
I am not , quite , mother , said he . 
She is spotless ! he replied and felt that if it had sent him to eternal hell there and then he would have told that lie . 
Then never mind the rest . 
After all , there are few purer things in nature then an unsullied country maid . 
Any crudeness of manner which may offend your more educated sense at first , will , I am sure , disappear under the influence or your companionship and tuition . 
True , on his own account he cared very little about his career but he had wished to make it at least a respectable one on account of his parents and brothers . 
When his agitation had cooled he would be at moments incensed with his poor wife for causing a situation in which he was obliged to practise deception on his parents . 
He almost talked to her in his anger , as if she had been in the room . 
This night the woman of his belittling deprecations was thinking how great and good her husband was . 
But over them both there hung a deeper shade than the shade which Angel Clare perceived , namely , the shade of his own limitations . 
In considering what Tess was not , he overlooked what she was , and forgot that the defective can be more than the entire . 
After breakfast Clare went into the little town to wind up such trifling matters as he was concerned with there , and to get from the local bank all the money he possessed . 
On his way back he encountered Miss Mercy Chant by the church , from whose walls she seemed to be a sort of emanation . 
She had learnt that he was about to leave England , and observed what an excellent and promising scheme it seemed to be . 
Yes it is a likely scheme enough in a commercial sense , no doubt , he replied . 
But , my dear Mercy , it snaps the continuity of existence . 
Perhaps a cloister would be preferable . 
A cloister ! O , Angel Clare ! Well ? Why , you wicked man , a cloister implies a monk , and a monk Roman Catholicism . 
And Roman Catholicism sin , and sin damnation . 
Thou are in a parlous state , Angel Clare . 
I glory in my Protestantism ! she said severely . 
His momentary laughter at the horror which appeared on her fair face ceased when it merged in pain and anxiety for his welfare . 
Dear Mercy , he said , you must forgive me . 
I think I am going crazy ! She thought that he was and thus the interview ended , and Clare re entered the Vicarage . 
With the local banker he deposited the jewels till happier days should arise . 
During the day he left the parsonage , for what he had to complete he wished to get done quickly . 
It was under this roof that the deepest shadow ever thrown upon his life had stretched its gloom over him . 
The farmer and his wife were in the field at the moment of his visit , and Clare was in the rooms alone for some time . 
Inwardly swollen with a renewal of sentiment that he had not quite reckoned with , he went upstairs to her chamber , which had never been his . 
The bed was smooth as she had made it with her own hands on the morning of leaving . 
The mistletoe hung under the tester just as he had placed it . 
Having been there three or four weeks it was turning colour , and the leaves and berries were wrinkled . 
Angel took it down and crushed it into the grate . 
Standing there he for the first time doubted whether his course in this conjecture had been a wise , much less a generous , one . 
But had he not been cruelly blinded ? In the incoherent multitude of his emotions he knelt down at the bedside wet eyed . 
O Tess ! If you had only told me sooner , I would have forgiven you ! he mourned . 
Hearing a footstep below he rose and went to the top of the stairs . 
At the bottom of the flight he saw a woman standing , and on her turning up her face recognized the pale , dark eyed Izz Huett . 
Mr Clare , she said , I've called to see you and Mrs Clare , and to inquire if ye be well . 
I thought you might be back here again . 
I am here alone , he said we are not living here now . 
Explaining why he had come , he asked , Which way are you going home , Izz ? I have no home at Talbothays Dairy now , sir , she said . 
Why is that ? Izz looked down . 
It was so dismal there that I left ! I am staying out this way . 
She pointed in a contrary direction , the direction in which he was journeying . 
Well are you going there now ? I can take you if you wish for a lift . 
Her olive complexion grew richer in hue . 
Thank 'ee , Mr Clare , she said . 
He soon found the farmer , and settled the account for his rent and the few other items which had to be considered by reason of the sudden abandonment of the lodgings . 
On Clare's return to his horse and gig Izz jumped up beside him . 
I am going to leave England , Izz , he said , as they drove on . 
And do Mrs Clare like the notion of such a journey ? she asked . 
She is not going at present say for a year or so . 
I am going out to reconnoitre to see what life there is like . 
They sped along eastward for some considerable distance , Izz making no observation . 
How are the others ? he inquired . 
How is Retty ? She was in a sort of nervous state when I zid her last and so thin and hollow cheeked that 'a do seem in a decline . 
Nobody will ever fall in love wi' her any more , said Izz absently . 
And Marian ? Izz lowered her voice . 
The dairyman has got rid of her . 
And you ! I don't drink , and I bain't in a decline . 
Not when you had been there a bit . 
Why was that falling off ? Her black eyes flashed up to his face for one moment by way of answer . 
Izz ! how weak of you for such as I ! he said , and fell into reverie . 
O my God ! did you never guess it till now ! By and by they reached a branch road to a village . 
I live out there , said Izz abruptly , never having spoken since her avowal . 
He was incensed against his fate , bitterly disposed towards social ordinances for they had cooped him up in a corner , out of which there was no legitimate pathway . 
I have separated from my wife for personal , not voyaging , reason . 
I may never live with her again . 
I may not be able to love you but will you go with me instead of her ? You truly wish me to go ? I do . 
I have been badly used enough to wish for relief . 
And you at least love me disinterestedly . 
Yes I will go , said Izz , after a pause . 
You will ? You know what it means , Izz ? It means that I shall live with you for the time you are over there that's good enough for me . 
Remember , you are not to trust me in morals now . 
But I ought to remind you that it will be wrong doing in the eyes of civilization Western civilization , that is to say . 
I don't mind that no woman do when it comes to agony point , and there's no other way ! Then don't get down , but sit where you are . 
He drove past the cross roads , one mile , two miles , without showing any signs of affection . 
You love me very , very much , Izz ? he suddenly asked . 
I do I have said I do ! I loved you all the time we was at the dairy together ! More than Tess ? She shook her head . 
No , she murmured , not more than she . 
How's that ? Because nobody could love 'ee more than Tess did ! . 
She would have laid down her life for 'ee . 
I could do no more . 
Clare was silent his heart had risen at these straightforward words from such an unexpected unimpeachable quarter . 
In his throat was something as if a sob had solidified there . 
His ear repeated , SHE WOULD HAVE LAID DOWN HER LIFE FOR 'EE . 
I COULD DO NO MORE ! Forget our idle talk , Izz , he said , turning the horse's head suddenly . 
I don't know what I've been saying ! I will now drive you back to where your lane branches off . 
Do you regret that poor little act of justice to an absent one ? O , Izz , don't spoil it by regret ! She stilled herself by degrees . 
Perhaps I didn't know what I was saying , either , wh when I agreed to go ! I wish what cannot be ! Because I have a loving wife already . 
Yes , yes ! You have ! They reached the corner of the lane which they had passed half an hour earlier , and she hopped down . 
Izz please , please forget my momentary levity ! he cried . 
I forgive 'ee , sir ! she said . 
I send this message to them as a dying man to the dying for I shall never see them again . 
And you , Izzy , you have saved me by your honest words about my wife from an incredible impulse towards folly and treachery . 
Women may be bad , but they are not so bad as men in these things ! On that one account I can never forget you . 
Be always the good and sincere girl you have hitherto been and think of me as a worthless lover , but a faithful friend . 
Heaven bless and keep you , sir . 
Nobody ever was told how Izz spent the dark hours that intervened between Angel Clare's parting from her and her arrival home . 
Clare , too , after bidding the girl farewell , was wrought to aching thoughts and quivering lips . 
But his sorrow was not for Izz . 
It was neither a contempt for her nature , nor the probable state of her heart , which deterred him . 
No it was a sense that , despite her love , as corroborated by Izz's admission , the facts had not changed . 
If he was right at first , he was right now . 
He could soon come back to her . 
He took the train that night for London , and five days after shook hands in farewell of his brothers at the port of embarkation . 
XLI From the foregoing events of the winter time let us press on to an October day , more than eight months subsequent to the parting of Clare and Tess . 
She preferred this to living on his allowance . 
Mentally she remained in utter stagnation , a condition which the mechanical occupation rather fostered than checked . 
However , as harvest was now beginning , she had simply to remove from the pasture to the stubble to find plenty of further occupation , and this continued till harvest was done . 
But there now followed an unfortunate interval of wet weather , during which she was obliged to fall back upon her sovereigns . 
She could not bear to let them go . 
But she had to do it , and one by one they left her hands . 
She had been compelled to send her mother her address from time to time , but she concealed her circumstances . 
When her money had almost gone a letter from her mother reached her . 
New rafters and a new ceiling upstairs also were required , which , with the previous bill , would amount to a sum of twenty pounds . 
Part of the remainder she was obliged to expend in winter clothing , leaving only a nominal sum for the whole inclement season at hand . 
When the last pound had gone , a remark of Angel's that whenever she required further resources she was to apply to his father , remained to be considered . 
But the more Tess thought of the step the more reluctant was she to take it . 
Her reluctance to communicate with her husband's parents might , she thought , lessen with the lapse of time but with her own the reverse obtained . 
This hope she still fostered . 
The set of brilliants returned to her mind . 
Where Clare had deposited them she did not know , and it mattered little , if it were true that she could only use and not sell them . 
Even were they absolutely hers it would be passing mean to enrich herself by a legal title to them which was not essentially hers at all . 
Meanwhile her husband's days had been by no means free from trial . 
From that direction of gentility Black Care had come . 
Society might be better than she supposed from her slight experience of it . 
But she had no proof of this , and her instinct in the circumstances was to avoid its purlieus . 
The small dairies to the west , beyond Port Bredy , in which she had served as supernumerary milkmaid during the spring and summer required no further aid . 
Room would probably have been made for her at Talbothays , if only out of sheer compassion but comfortable as her life had been there she could not go back . 
The anti climax would be too intolerable and her return might bring reproach upon her idolized husband . 
It was the interchange of ideas about her that made her sensitiveness wince . 
Tess could not account for this distinction she simply knew that she felt it . 
She was now on her way to an upland farm in the centre of the county , to which she had been recommended by a wandering letter which had reached her from Marian . 
But having once decided to try the higher and drier levels , she pressed back eastward , marching afoot towards the village of Chalk Newton , where she meant to pass the night . 
The lane was long and unvaried , and , owing to the rapid shortening of the days , dusk came upon her before she was aware . 
He stepped up alongside Tess and said Goodnight , my pretty maid to which she civilly replied . 
The light still remaining in the sky lit up her face , though the landscape was nearly dark . 
The man turned and stared hard at her . 
Why , surely , it is the young wench who was at Trantridge awhile young Squire d'Urberville's friend ? I was there at that time , though I don't live there now . 
She recognized in him the well to do boor whom Angel had knocked down at the inn for addressing her coarsely . 
A spasm of anguish shot through her , and she returned him no answer . 
Still no answer came from Tess . 
There seemed only one escape for her hunted soul . 
Into this she plunged , and did not pause till she was deep enough in its shade to be safe against any possibility of discovery . 
Under foot the leaves were dry , and the foliage of some holly bushes which grew among the deciduous trees was dense enough to keep off draughts . 
She scraped together the dead leaves till she had formed them into a large heap , making a sort of nest in the middle . 
Such sleep as she got was naturally fitful she fancied she heard strange noises , but persuaded herself that they were caused by the breeze . 
She thought of her husband in some vague warm clime on the other side of the globe , while she was here in the cold . 
Was there another such a wretched being as she in the world ? Tess asked herself and , thinking of her wasted life , said , All is vanity . 
She repeated the words mechanically , till she reflected that this was a most inadequate thought for modern days . 
Solomon had thought as far as that more than two thousand years ago she herself , though not in the van of thinkers , had got much further . 
If all were only vanity , who would mind it ? All was , alas , worse than vanity injustice , punishment , exaction , death . 
I wish it were now , she said . 
In the midst of these whimsical fancies she heard a new strange sound among the leaves . 
It might be the wind yet there was scarcely any wind . 
Sometimes it was a palpitation , sometimes a flutter sometimes it was a sort of gasp or gurgle . 
Had she been ensconced here under other and more pleasant conditions she would have become alarmed but , outside humanity , she had at present no fear . 
Day at length broke in the sky . 
When it had been day aloft for some little while it became day in the wood . 
Directly the assuring and prosaic light of the world's active hours had grown strong she crept from under her hillock of leaves , and looked around boldly . 
Then she perceived what had been going on to disturb her . 
The plantation wherein she had taken shelter ran down at this spot into a peak , which ended it hitherward , outside the hedge being arable ground . 
Tess guessed at once the meaning of this . 
Poor darlings to suppose myself the most miserable being on earth in the sight o' such misery as yours ! she exclaimed , her tears running down as she killed the birds tenderly . 
And not a twinge of bodily pain about me ! I be not mangled , and I be not bleeding , and I have two hands to feed and clothe me . 
XLII It was now broad day , and she started again , emerging cautiously upon the highway . 
But that she could not do so long as it was held by Clare . 
She reached Chalk Newton , and breakfasted at an inn , where several young men were troublesomely complimentary to her good looks . 
To this end Tess resolved to run no further risks from her appearance . 
What a mommet of a maid ! said the next man who met her to a companion . 
Tears came into her eyes for very pity of herself as she heard him . 
But I don't care ! she said . 
O no I don't care ! I'll always be ugly now , because Angel is not here , and I have nobody to take care of me . 
Every thread of that old attire has become faded and thin under the stroke of raindrops , the burn of sunbeams , and the stress of winds . 
There is no sign of young passion in her now The maiden's mouth is cold . 
Fold over simple fold Binding her head . 
Next day the weather was bad , but she trudged on , the honesty , directness , and impartiality of elemental enmity disconcerting her but little . 
Her object being a winter's occupation and a winter's home , there was no time to lose . 
Her experience of short hirings had been such that she was determined to accept no more . 
Here the air was dry and cold , and the long cart roads were blown white and dusty within a few hours after rain . 
In the middle distance ahead of her she could see the summits of Bulbarrow and of Nettlecombe Tout , and they seemed friendly . 
They had a low and unassuming aspect from this upland , though as approached on the other side from Blackmoor in her childhood they were as lofty bastions against the sky . 
Before her , in a slight depression , were the remains of a village . 
She had , in fact , reached Flintcomb Ash , the place of Marian's sojourn . 
There seemed to be no help for it hither she was doomed to come . 
Who would think I was Mrs Angel Clare ! she said . 
The wall felt warm to her back and shoulders , and she found that immediately within the gable was the cottage fireplace , the heat of which came through the bricks . 
She warmed her hands upon them , and also put her cheek red and moist with the drizzle against their comforting surface . 
The wall seemed to be the only friend she had . 
She had so little wish to leave it that she could have stayed there all night . 
Tess could hear the occupants of the cottage gathered together after their day's labour talking to each other within , and the rattle of their supper plates was also audible . 
But in the village street she had seen no soul as yet . 
The solitude was at last broken by the approach of one feminine figure , who , though the evening was cold , wore the print gown and the tilt bonnet of summer time . 
Tess instinctively thought it might be Marian , and when she came near enough to be distinguishable in the gloom surely enough it was she . 
Marian was even stouter and redder in the face than formerly , and decidedly shabbier in attire . 
At any previous period of her existence Tess would hardly have cared to renew the acquaintance in such conditions but her loneliness was excessive , and she responded readily to Marian's greeting . 
She pulled off in disgust a bandage which could suggest such wild thoughts . 
I know it , Marian . 
The truth is , I don't care anything about my looks and so I didn't put it on . 
And you don't wear your wedding ring ? Yes , I do but not in public . 
I wear it round my neck on a ribbon . 
I don't wish people to think who I am by marriage , or that I am married at all it would be so awkward while I lead my present life . 
But you BE a gentleman's wife and it seems hardly fair that you should live like this ! O yes it is , quite fair though I am very unhappy . 
HE married you and you can be unhappy ! Wives are unhappy sometimes from no fault of their husbands from their own . 
You've no faults , deary that I'm sure of . 
So it must be something outside ye both . 
Do not call me Mrs Clare , but Tess , as before . 
Do they want a hand here ? O yes they'll take one always , because few care to come . 
Tis a starve acre place . 
Corn and swedes are all they grow . 
Though I be here myself , I feel 'tis a pity for such as you to come . 
But you used to be as good a dairywoman as I. Yes but I've got out o' that since I took to drink . 
Lord , that's the only comfort I've got now ! If you engage , you'll be set swede hacking . 
That's what I be doing but you won't like it . 
O anything ! Will you speak for me ? You will do better by speaking for yourself . 
Now , Marian , remember nothing about HIM , if I get the place . 
I don't wish to bring his name down to the dirt . 
Marian , who was really a trustworthy girl though of coarser grain than Tess , promised anything she asked . 
This is pay night , she said , and if you were to come with me you would know at once . 
I be real sorry that you are not happy but 'tis because he's away , I know . 
You couldn't be unhappy if he were here , even if he gie'd ye no money even if used you like a drudge . 
That's true I could not ! They walked on together , and soon reached the farmhouse , which was almost sublime in its dreariness . 
Tess waited outside the door of the farmhouse till the group of workfolk had received their wages , and then Marian introduced her . 
Female field labour was seldom offered now , and its cheapness made it profitable for tasks which women could perform as readily as men . 
It was a poor subsistence that she had ensured , but it would afford a shelter for the winter at any rate . 
That night she wrote to inform her parents of her new address , in case a letter should arrive at Marlott from her husband . 
But she did not tell them of the sorriness of her situation it might have brought reproach upon him . 
XLIII There was no exaggeration in Marian's definition of Flintcomb Ash farm as a starve acre place . 
The single fat thing on the soil was Marian herself and she was an importation . 
this place , Flintcomb Ash , was the third . 
But Tess set to work . 
Patience , that blending of moral courage with physical timidity , was now no longer a minor feature in Mrs Angel Clare and it sustained her . 
The sky wore , in another colour , the same likeness a white vacuity of countenance with the lineaments gone . 
The pensive character which the curtained hood lent to their bent heads would have reminded the observer of some early Italian conception of the two Marys . 
They worked on hour after hour , unconscious of the forlorn aspect they bore in the landscape , not thinking of the justice or injustice of their lot . 
Even in such a position as theirs it was possible to exist in a dream . 
In the afternoon the rain came on again , and Marian said that they need not work any more . 
But if they did not work they would not be paid so they worked on . 
Tess had not known till now what was really meant by that . 
There are degrees of dampness , and a very little is called being wet through in common talk . 
Yet they did not feel the wetness so much as might be supposed . 
You can see a gleam of a hill within a few miles o' Froom Valley from here when 'tis fine , said Marian . 
Ah ! Can you ? said Tess , awake to the new value of this locality . 
So the two forces were at work here as everywhere , the inherent will to enjoy , and the circumstantial will against enjoyment . 
Marian's will had a method of assisting itself by taking from her pocket as the afternoon wore on a pint bottle corked with white rag , from which she invited Tess to drink . 
Tess's unassisted power of dreaming , however , being enough for her sublimation at present , she declined except the merest sip , and then Marian took a pull from the spirits . 
I've got used to it , she said , and can't leave it off now . 
'Tis my only comfort You see I lost him you didn't and you can do without it perhaps . 
Tess thought her loss as great as Marian's , but upheld by the dignity of being Angel's wife , in the letter at least , she accepted Marian's differentiation . 
Amid this scene Tess slaved in the morning frosts and in the afternoon rains . 
When it was not swede grubbing it was swede trimming , in which process they sliced off the earth and the fibres with a bill hook before storing the roots for future use . 
She had a conviction that sooner or later the magnanimity which she persisted in reckoning as a chief ingredient of Clare's character would lead him to rejoin her . 
Marian , primed to a humorous mood , would discover the queer shaped flints aforesaid , and shriek with laughter , Tess remaining severely obtuse . 
I'll write to Izz Huett , she said . 
She's biding at home doing nothing now , I know , and I'll tell her we be here , and ask her to come and perhaps Retty is well enough now . 
There had not been such a winter for years . 
It came on in stealthy and measured glides , like the moves of a chess player . 
One morning the few lonely trees and the thorns of the hedgerows appeared as if they had put off a vegetable for an animal integument . 
These nameless birds came quite near to Tess and Marian , but of all they had seen which humanity would never see , they brought no account . 
Then one day a peculiar quality invaded the air of this open country . 
There came a moisture which was not of rain , and a cold which was not of frost . 
It chilled the eyeballs of the twain , made their brows ache , penetrated to their skeletons , affecting the surface of the body less than its core . 
They knew that it meant snow , and in the night the snow came . 
Without , the storm drove so fast as to create a snow mist in the kitchen but as yet it was too dark out of doors to see anything . 
The snow had followed the birds from the polar basin as a white pillar of a cloud , and individual flakes could not be seen . 
The blast smelt of icebergs , arctic seas , whales , and white bears , carrying the snow so that it licked the land but did not deepen on it . 
They trudged onwards with slanted bodies through the flossy fields , keeping as well as they could in the shelter of hedges , which , however , acted as strainers rather than screens . 
The air , afflicted to pallor with the hoary multitudes that infested it , twisted and spun them eccentrically , suggesting an achromatic chaos of things . 
But both the young women were fairly cheerful such weather on a dry upland is not in itself dispiriting . 
Ha ha ! the cunning northern birds knew this was coming , said Marian . 
Depend upon't , they keep just in front o't all the way from the North Star . 
Your husband , my dear , is , I make no doubt , having scorching weather all this time . 
Lord , if he could only see his pretty wife now ! Not that this weather hurts your beauty at all in fact , it rather does it good . 
You mustn't talk about him to me , Marian , said Tess severely . 
Well , well , I know you do . 
I can stand it because I'm stout but you be slimmer than I. I can't think why maister should have set 'ee at it . 
They reached the wheat barn and entered it . 
Why , here's Izz ! said Marian . 
Izz it was , and she came forward . 
The farmer had agreed with her mother at market to take her on if she came today , and she had been afraid to disappoint him by delay . 
They showed no recognition of her , and possibly had none , for they had been under the influence of liquor on that occasion , and were only temporary sojourners there as here . 
They did all kinds of men's work of preference , including well sinking , hedging , ditching , and excavating , without any sense of fatigue . 
Noted reed drawers were they too , and looked round upon the other three with some superciliousness . 
The day hardened in colour , the light coming in at the barndoors upwards from the snow instead of downwards from the sky . 
Presently they heard the muffled tread of a horse , and the farmer rode up to the barndoor . 
When he had dismounted he came close to Tess , and remained looking musingly at the side of her face . 
He concluded with a hard laugh . 
Tess , between the Amazons and the farmer like a bird caught in a clap net , returned no answer , continuing to pull the straw . 
Upon the whole she preferred that sentiment in man and felt brave enough to endure it . 
You thought I was in love with 'ee I suppose ? Some women are such fools , to take every look as serious earnest . 
But there's nothing like a winter afield for taking that nonsense out o' young wenches' heads and you've signed and agreed till Lady Day . 
Now , are you going to beg my pardon ? I think you ought to beg mine . 
Very well as you like . 
But we'll see which is master here . 
Be they all the sheaves you've done today ? Yes , sir . 
'Tis a very poor show . 
Just see what they've done over there . 
The rest , too , have done better than you . 
They've all practised it before , and I have not . 
And I thought it made no difference to you as it is task work , and we are only paid for what we do . 
Oh , but it does . 
I want the barn cleared . 
I am going to work all the afternoon instead of leaving at two as the others will do . 
He looked sullenly at her and went away . 
Tess felt that she could not have come to a much worse place but anything was better than gallantry . 
When two o'clock arrived the professional reed drawers tossed off the last half pint in their flagon , put down their hooks , tied their last sheaves , and went away . 
Looking out at the snow , which still fell , Marian exclaimed , Now , we've got it all to ourselves . 
And so at last the conversation turned to their old experiences at the dairy and , of course , the incidents of their affection for Angel Clare . 
Izz was by nature the sauciest and most caustic of all the four girls who had loved Clare . 
He was a very splendid lover , no doubt , she said but I don't think he is a too fond husband to go away from you so soon . 
He had to go he was obliged to go , to see about the land over there ! pleaded Tess . 
He might have tided 'ee over the winter . 
Ah that's owing to an accident a misunderstanding and we won't argue it , Tess answered , with tearfulness in her words . 
Perhaps there's a good deal to be said for him ! He did not go away , like some husbands , without telling me and I can always find out where he is . 
Then Tess suddenly flagged , and sank down upon the heap of wheat ears at her feet . 
I knew you wouldn't be able to stand it ! cried Marian . 
It wants harder flesh than yours for this work . 
Just then the farmer entered . 
Oh , that's how you get on when I am away , he said to her . 
But it is my own loss , she pleaded . 
I want it finished , he said doggedly , as he crossed the barn and went out at the other door . 
Don't 'ee mind him , there's a dear , said Marian . 
Now you go and lie down there , and Izz and I will make up your number . 
I don't like to let you do that . 
I'm taller than you , too . 
Her succumbing had been as largely owning to agitation at the re opening the subject of her separation from her husband as to the hard work . 
She lay in a state of percipience without volition , and the rustle of the straw and the cutting of the ears by the others had the weight of bodily touches . 
She could hear from her corner , in addition to these noises , the murmur of their voices . 
She felt certain that they were continuing the subject already broached , but their voices were so low that she could not catch the words . 
At last Tess grew more and more anxious to know what they were saying , and , persuading herself that she felt better , she got up and resumed work . 
Then Izz Huett broke down . 
She had walked more than a dozen miles the previous evening , had gone to bed at midnight , and had risen again at five o'clock . 
Marian alone , thanks to her bottle of liquor and her stoutness of build , stood the strain upon back and arms without suffering . 
Tess urged Izz to leave off , agreeing , as she felt better , to finish the day without her , and make equal division of the number of sheaves . 
Izz accepted the offer gratefully , and disappeared through the great door into the snowy track to her lodging . 
Marian , as was the case every afternoon at this time on account of the bottle , began to feel in a romantic vein . 
I should not have thought it of him never ! she said in a dreamy tone . 
And I loved him so ! I didn't mind his having YOU . 
But this about Izz is too bad ! Tess , in her start at the words , narrowly missed cutting off a finger with the bill hook . 
Is it about my husband ? she stammered . 
Izz said , 'Don't 'ee tell her' but I am sure I can't help it ! It was what he wanted Izz to do . 
He wanted her to go off to Brazil with him . 
Tess's face faded as white as the scene without , and its curves straightened . 
And did Izz refuse to go ? she asked . 
Anyhow he changed his mind . 
Pooh then he didn't mean it ! 'Twas just a man's jest ! Yes he did for he drove her a good ways towards the station . 
He didn't take her ! They pulled on in silence till Tess , without any premonitory symptoms , burst out crying . 
He said I could not go to him , but he didn't say I was not to write as often as I liked . 
When Tess had reached home that evening , and had entered into the privacy of her little white washed chamber , she began impetuously writing a letter to Clare . 
But falling into doubt she could not finish it . 
It was through her husband's parents that she had been charged to send a letter to Clare if she desired and to write to them direct if in difficulty . 
But now that she was stung to a fever by Izz's tale there was a limit to her powers of renunciation . 
If Angel's father were the good man she had heard him represented to be , he would be able to enter into her heart starved situation . 
Her social hardships she could conceal . 
To leave the farm on a week day was not in her power Sunday was the only possible opportunity . 
Flintcomb Ash being in the middle of the cretaceous tableland over which no railway had climbed as yet , it would be necessary to walk . 
And the distance being fifteen miles each way she would have to allow herself a long day for the undertaking by rising early . 
A fortnight later , when the snow had gone , and had been followed by a hard black frost , she took advantage of the state of the roads to try the experiment . 
At four o'clock that Sunday morning she came downstairs and stepped out into the starlight . 
The weather was still favourable , the ground ringing under her feet like an anvil . 
Marian and Izz were much interested in her excursion , knowing that the journey concerned her husband . 
With a final tug and touch here , and a slight brush there , they let her go and she was absorbed into the pearly air of the fore dawn . 
They heard her footsteps tap along the hard road as she stepped out to her full pace . 
It was a year ago , all but a day , that Clare had married Tess , and only a few days less than a year that he had been absent from her . 
In time she reached the edge of the vast escarpment below which stretched the loamy Vale of Blackmoor , now lying misty and still in the dawn . 
Instead of the colourless air of the uplands the atmosphere down there was a deep blue . 
Here the landscape was whitey brown down there , as in Froom Valley , it was always green . 
Yet is was in that vale that her sorrow had taken shape , and she did not love it as formerly . 
Beauty to her , as to all who have felt , lay not in the thing , but in what the thing symbolized . 
Still following the elevated way she reached Cross in Hand , where the stone pillar stands desolate and silent , to mark the site of a miracle , or murder , or both . 
She made a halt here , and breakfasted a second time , heartily enough not at the Sow and Acorn , for she avoided inns , but at a cottage by the church . 
The second half of her journey was through a more gentle country , by way of Benvill Lane . 
But as the mileage lessened between her and the spot of her pilgrimage , so did Tess's confidence decrease , and her enterprise loom out more formidably . 
She saw her purpose in such staring lines , and the landscape so faintly , that she was sometimes in danger of losing her way . 
However , about noon she paused by a gate on the edge of the basin in which Emminster and its Vicarage lay . 
The square tower , beneath which she knew that at that moment the Vicar and his congregation were gathered , had a severe look in her eyes . 
She wished that she had somehow contrived to come on a week day . 
Such a good man might be prejudiced against a woman who had chosen Sunday , never realizing the necessities of her case . 
But it was incumbent upon her to go on now . 
Tess hoped for some accident that might favour her , but nothing favoured her . 
She nerved herself by an effort , entered the swing gate , and rang the door bell . 
The thing was done there could be no retreat . 
No the thing was not done . 
Nobody answered to her ringing . 
The effort had be risen to and made again . 
The wind was so nipping that the ivy leaves had become wizened and gray , each tapping incessantly upon its neighbour with a disquieting stir of her nerves . 
The second peal had been louder , and still nobody came . 
Then she walked out of the porch , opened the gate , and passed through . 
And though she looked dubiously at the house front as if inclined to return , it was with a breath of relied that she closed the gate . 
, and orders been given not to admit her . 
Tess went as far as the corner . 
Ah the explanation was that they were all at church , every one . 
It was , therefore , only necessary to wait till the service was over . 
She would not make herself conspicuous by waiting on the spot , and she started to get past the church into the lane . 
But as she reached the churchyard gate the people began pouring out , and Tess found herself in the midst of them . 
She soon distanced the churchgoers , except two youngish men , who , linked arm in arm , were beating up behind her at a quick step . 
The pedestrians were his two brothers . 
The more briskly they walked the more briskly walked she . 
They were plainly bent upon taking a short quick stroll before going indoors to lunch or dinner , to restore warmth to limbs chilled with sitting through a long service . 
Only one person had preceded Tess up the hill a ladylike young woman , somewhat interesting , though , perhaps , a trifle GUINDEE and prudish . 
Tess had nearly overtaken her when the speed of her brothers in law brought them so nearly behind her back that she could hear every word of their conversation . 
They said nothing , however , which particularly interested her till , observing the young lady still further in front , one of them remarked , There is Mercy Chant . 
It was the woman who had been destined for Angel's life companion by his and her parents , and whom he probably would have married but for her intrusive self . 
It is a queer business , apparently . 
Whether she has joined him yet or not I don't know but she had not done so some months ago when I heard from him . 
He never tells me anything nowadays . 
His ill considered marriage seems to have completed that estrangement from me which was begun by his extraordinary opinions . 
Tess beat up the long hill still faster but she could not outwalk them without exciting notice . 
At last they outsped her altogether , and passed her by . 
The young lady still further ahead heard their footsteps and turned . 
Then there was a greeting and a shaking of hands , and the three went on together . 
During their discourse one of the clerical brothers probed the hedge carefully with his umbrella , and dragged something to light . 
Here's a pair of old boots , he said . 
Thrown away , I suppose , by some tramp or other . 
Some imposter who wished to come into the town barefoot , perhaps , and so excite our sympathies , said Miss Chant . 
Yes , it must have been , for they are excellent walking boots by no means worn out . 
What a wicked thing to do ! I'll carry them home for some poor person . 
Cuthbert Clare , who had been the one to find them , picked them up for her with the crook of his stick and Tess's boots were appropriated . 
Thereupon our heroine resumed her walk . 
Tears , blinding tears , were running down her face . 
It was impossible to think of returning to the Vicarage . 
Angel's wife felt almost as if she had been hounded up that hill like a scorned thing by those to her superfine clerics . 
As she again though of her dusty boots she almost pitied those habiliments for the quizzing to which they had been subjected , and felt how hopeless life was for their owner . 
Her present condition was precisely one which would have enlisted the sympathies of old Mr and Mrs Clare . 
Their hearts went out of them at a bound towards extreme cases , when the subtle mental troubles of the less desperate among mankind failed to win their interest or regard . 
Thereupon she began to plod back along the road by which she had come not altogether full of hope , but full of a conviction that a crisis in her life was approaching . 
But it was done with a sorry shake of the head . 
It is nothing it is nothing ! she said . 
Nobody loves it nobody sees it . 
Who cares about the looks of a castaway like me ! Her journey back was rather a meander than a march . 
It had no sprightliness , no purpose only a tendency . 
Along the tedious length of Benvill Lane she began to grow tired , and she leant upon gates and paused by milestones . 
The people are gone to afternoon service , I suppose ? she said . 
No , my dear , said the old woman . 
'Tis too soon for that the bells hain't strook out yet . 
They be all gone to hear the preaching in yonder barn . 
A ranter preaches there between the services an excellent , fiery , Christian man , they say . 
Nearing the central part her echoes were intruded on by other sounds and seeing the barn not far off the road , she guessed these to be the utterances of the preacher . 
His voice became so distinct in the still clear air that she could soon catch his sentences , though she was on the closed side of the barn . 
The sermon , as might be expected , was of the extremest antinomian type on justification by faith , as expounded in the theology of St Paul . 
This fixed idea of the rhapsodist was delivered with animated enthusiasm , in a manner entirely declamatory , for he had plainly no skill as a dialectician . 
He had , he said , been the greatest of sinners . 
He had scoffed he had wantonly associated with the reckless and the lewd . 
But more startling to Tess than the doctrine had been the voice , which , impossible as it seemed , was precisely that of Alec d'Urberville . 
Her face fixed in painful suspense , she came round to the front of the barn , and passed before it . 
The listeners were entirely villagers , among them being the man whom she had seen carrying the red paint pot on a former memorable occasion . 
But her attention was given to the central figure , who stood upon some sacks of corn , facing the people and the door . 
END OF PHASE THE FIFTH Phase the Sixth The Convert XLV Till this moment she had never seen or heard from d'Urberville since her departure from Trantridge . 
The rencounter came at a heavy moment , one of all moments calculated to permit its impact with the least emotional shock . 
To think of what emanated from that countenance when she saw it last , and to behold it now ! . 
To Tess's sense there was , just at first , a ghastly BIZARRERIE , a grim incongruity , in the march of these solemn words of Scripture out of such a mouth . 
This too familiar intonation , less than four years earlier , had brought to her ears expressions of such divergent purpose that her heart became quite sick at the irony of the contrast . 
It was less a reform than a transfiguration . 
The former curves of sensuousness were now modulated to lines of devotional passion . 
The lineaments , as such , seemed to complain . 
They had been diverted from their hereditary connotation to signify impressions for which Nature did not intend them . 
Strange that their very elevation was a misapplication , that to raise seemed to falsify . 
Yet could it be so ? She would admit the ungenerous sentiment no longer . 
The greater the sinner the greater the saint it was not necessary to dive far into Christian history to discover that . 
Such impressions as these moved her vaguely , and without strict definiteness . 
As soon as the nerveless pause of her surprise would allow her to stir , her impulse was to pass on out of his sight . 
He had obviously not discerned her yet in her position against the sun . 
But the moment that she moved again he recognized her . 
The effect upon her old lover was electric , far stronger than the effect of his presence upon her . 
His fire , the tumultuous ring of his eloquence , seemed to go out of him . 
His lip struggled and trembled under the words that lay upon it but deliver them it could not as long as she faced him . 
His eyes , after their first glance upon her face , hung confusedly in every other direction but hers , but came back in a desperate leap every few seconds . 
As soon as she could reflect it appalled her , this change in their relative platforms . 
He who had wrought her undoing was now on the side of the Spirit , while she remained unregenerate . 
And , as in the legend , it had resulted that her Cyprian image had suddenly appeared upon his alter , whereby the fire of the priest had been well nigh extinguished . 
She went on without turning her head . 
All the way along to this point her heart had been heavy with an inactive sorrow now there was a change in the quality of its trouble . 
That hunger for affection too long withheld was for the time displaced by an almost physical sense of an implacable past which still engirdled her . 
Bygones would never be complete bygones till she was a bygone herself . 
Its dry pale surface stretched severely onward , unbroken by a single figure , vehicle , or mark , save some occasional brown horse droppings which dotted its cold aridity here and there . 
There was not much time , however , for thought or elusion , and she yielded as calmly as she could to the necessity of letting him overtake her . 
She saw that he was excited , less by the speed of his walk than by the feelings within him . 
She slackened speed without looking round . 
It is I Alec d'Urberville . 
She then looked back at him , and he came up . 
I see it is , she answered coldly . 
But I must put up with that . 
I heard you had gone away , nobody knew where . 
But don't mistake me I beg this because you may have been led to do so in noticing if you did notice it how your sudden appearance unnerved me down there . 
It was but a momentary faltering and considering what you have been to me , it was natural enough . 
I have come with that sole purpose in view nothing more . 
There was the smallest vein of scorn in her words of rejoinder Have you saved yourself ? Charity begins at home , they say . 
I have done nothing ! said he indifferently . 
Heaven , as I have been telling my hearers , has done all . 
I only differ from him on the question of Church and State the interpretation of the text , 'Come out from among them and be ye separate , saith the Lord' that's all . 
He is one who , I firmly believe , has been the humble means of saving more souls in this country than any other man you can name . 
You have heard of him ? I have , she said . 
He did not resent my conduct , he simply said that some day I should receive the first fruits of the Spirit that those who came to scoff sometimes remained to pray . 
There was a strange magic in his words . 
They sank into my mind . 
But the loss of my mother hit me most and by degrees I was brought to see daylight . 
Why ? She dropped her voice . 
Because a better man than you does not believe in such . 
What a woman's reason ! Who is this better man ? I cannot tell you . 
I am new to goodness , truly but newcomers see furthest sometimes . 
Yes , she replied sadly . 
But I cannot believe in your conversion to a new spirit . 
The inferior man was quiet in him now but it was surely not extracted , nor even entirely subdued . 
Don't look at me like that ! he said abruptly . 
No , no ! Don't beg my pardon . 
It may seem harsh of me to dictate like this , he went on but it is better that I should not look too often on you . 
At length the road touched the spot called Cross in Hand . 
Of all spots on the bleached and desolate upland this was the most forlorn . 
It was so far removed from the charm which is sought in landscape by artists and view lovers as to reach a new kind of beauty , a negative beauty of tragic tone . 
Differing accounts were given of its history and purport . 
I think I must leave you now , he remarked , as they drew near to this spot . 
I have to preach at Abbot's Cernel at six this evening , and my way lies across to the right from here . 
And you upset me somewhat too , Tessy I cannot , will not , say why . 
I must go away and get strength . 
How is it that you speak so fluently now ? Who has taught you such good English ? I have learnt things in my troubles , she said evasively . 
What troubles have you had ? She told him of the first one the only one that related to him . 
I knew nothing of this till now ! he next murmured . 
Why didn't you write to me when you felt your trouble coming on ? She did not reply and he broke the silence by adding Well you will see me again . 
Do not again come near me ! I will think . 
But before we part come here . 
He stepped up to the pillar . 
This was once a Holy Cross . 
Good God how can you ask what is so unnecessary ! All that is furthest from my thought ! Yes but swear it . 
Tess , half frightened , gave way to his importunity placed her hand upon the stone and swore . 
I am sorry you are not a believer , he continued that some unbeliever should have got hold of you and unsettled your mind . 
At home at least I can pray for you and I will and who knows what may not happen ? I'm off . 
It was dated several months before this time , and was signed by Parson Clare . 
The letter began by expressing the writer's unfeigned joy at d'Urberville's conversion , and thanked him for his kindness in communicating with the parson on the subject . 
It expressed Mr Clare's warm assurance of forgiveness for d'Urberville's former conduct , and his interest in the young man's plans for the future . 
Every man must work as he could best work , and in the method towards which he felt impelled by the Spirit . 
D'Urberville read and re read this letter , and seemed to quiz himself cynically . 
He also read some passages from memoranda as he walked till his face assumed a calm , and apparently the image of Tess no longer troubled his mind . 
She meanwhile had kept along the edge of the hill by which lay her nearest way home . 
Within the distance of a mile she met a solitary shepherd . 
What is the meaning of that old stone I have passed ? she asked of him . 
Was it ever a Holy Cross ? Cross no 'twer not a cross ! Tis a thing of ill omen , Miss . 
It was put up in wuld times by the relations of a malefactor who was tortured there by nailing his hand to a post and afterwards hung . 
They say he sold his soul to the devil , and that he walks at times . 
She felt the PETIT MORT at this unexpectedly gruesome information , and left the solitary man behind her . 
It was dusk when she drew near to Flintcomb Ash , and in the lane at the entrance to the hamlet she approached a girl and her lover without their observing her . 
When she came close the girl turned serenely and recognized her , the young man walking off in embarrassment . 
The woman was Izz Huett , whose interest in Tess's excursion immediately superseded her own proceedings . 
He is Amby Seedling , the chap who used to sometimes come and help at Talbothays , she explained indifferently . 
He actually inquired and found out that I had come here , and has followed me . 
He says he's been in love wi' me these two years . 
But I've hardly answered him . 
XLVI Several days had passed since her futile journey , and Tess was afield . 
The dry winter wind still blew , but a screen of thatched hurdles erected in the eye of the blast kept its force away from her . 
On the sheltered side was a turnip slicing machine , whose bright blue hue of new paint seemed almost vocal in the otherwise subdued scene . 
Opposite its front was a long mound or grave , in which the roots had been preserved since early winter . 
Tess was standing at the uncovered end , chopping off with a bill hook the fibres and earth from each root , and throwing it after the operation into the slicer . 
The wide acreage of blank agricultural brownness , apparent where the swedes had been pulled , was beginning to be striped in wales of darker brown , gradually broadening to ribands . 
For hours nothing relieved the joyless monotony of things . 
Then , far beyond the ploughing teams , a black speck was seen . 
It had come from the corner of a fence , where there was a gap , and its tendency was up the incline , towards the swede cutters . 
It was not her hard taskmaster , Farmer Groby it was one in a semi clerical costume , who now represented what had once been the free and easy Alec d'Urberville . 
Not being hot at his preaching there was less enthusiasm about him now , and the presence of the grinder seemed to embarrass him . 
A pale distress was already on Tess's face , and she pulled her curtained hood further over it . 
D'Urberville came up and said quietly I want to speak to you , Tess . 
You have refused my last request , not to come near me ! said she . 
Yes , but I have a good reason . 
It is more serious than you may think . 
He glanced round to see if he were overheard . 
They were at some distance from the man who turned the slicer , and the movement of the machine , too , sufficiently prevented Alec's words reaching other ears . 
D'Urberville placed himself so as to screen Tess from the labourer , turning his back to the latter . 
It is this , he continued , with capricious compunction . 
In thinking of your soul and mine when we last met , I neglected to inquire as to your worldly condition . 
You were well dressed , and I did not think of it . 
But I see now that it is hard harder than it used to be when I knew you harder than you deserve . 
By going on with her work she felt better able to keep him outside her emotions . 
Scamp that I was to foul that innocent life ! The whole blame was mine the whole unconventional business of our time at Trantridge . 
Tess still did no more than listen , throwing down one globular root and taking up another with automatic regularity , the pensive contour of the mere fieldwoman alone marking her . 
But it is not that I came to say , d'Urberville went on . 
I have lost my mother since you were at Trantridge , and the place is my own . 
But I intend to sell it , and devote myself to missionary work in Africa . 
A devil of a poor hand I shall make at the trade , no doubt . 
I have already obtained this precious document . 
It was my old mother's dying wish . 
He drew a piece of parchment from his pocket , with a slight fumbling of embarrassment . 
What is it ? said she . 
O no , sir no ! she said quickly , starting back . 
You will not ? Why is that ? And as he asked the question a disappointment which was not entirely the disappointment of thwarted duty crossed d'Urberville's face . 
It was unmistakably a symptom that something of his old passion for her had been revived duty and desire ran hand in hand . 
Surely , he began again , in more impetuous tones , and then looked round at the labourer who turned the slicer . 
Tess , too , felt that the argument could not be ended there . 
Informing the man that a gentleman had come to see her , with whom she wished to walk a little way , she moved off with d'Urberville across the zebra striped field . 
You will not marry me , Tess , and make me a self respecting man ? he repeated , as soon as they were over the furrows . 
But why ? You know I have no affection for you . 
But you would get to feel that in time , perhaps as soon as you really could forgive me ? Never ! Why so positive ? I love somebody else . 
The words seemed to astonish him . 
You do ? he cried . 
Yes , yes ! Why not ? I cannot tell you . 
You must in honour ! Well then . 
Ah ! he exclaimed and he stopped dead and gazed at her . 
I did not wish to tell I did not mean to ! she pleaded . 
It is a secret here , or at any rate but dimly known . 
So will you , PLEASE will you , keep from questioning me ? You must remember that we are now strangers . 
Strangers are we ? Strangers ! For a moment a flash of his old irony marked his face but he determinedly chastened it down . 
Is that man your husband ? he asked mechanically , denoting by a sign the labourer who turned the machine . 
That man ! she said proudly . 
But I only asked for your sake ! he retorted hotly . 
Angels of heaven ! God forgive me for such an expression I came here , I swear , as I thought for your good . 
I own that the sight of you had waked up my love for you , which , I believed , was extinguished with all such feelings . 
But I thought that our marriage might be a sanctification for us both . 
'The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife , and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband' , I said to myself . 
But my plan is dashed from me and I must bear the disappointment ! He moodily reflected with his eyes on the ground . 
There are many questions that I am tempted to ask , but I will not do so , of course , in opposition to your wishes . 
Though , if I could know your husband , I might more easily benefit him and you . 
Is he on this farm ? No , she murmured . 
That's sad , Tess ! Yes . 
He don't know it ! It is by my own arrangement . 
Then , does he write ? I I cannot tell you . 
There are things which are private to ourselves . 
Of course that means that he does not . 
You must not you must not ! she cried fearfully , slipping her hand from the glove as from a pocket , and leaving it in his grasp . 
Don't speak like that to her ! said d'Urberville , his face blackening with something that was not Christianity . 
Indeed , Mister ! And what mid Methodist pa'sons have to do with she ? Who is the fellow ? asked d'Urberville , turning to Tess . 
She went close up to him . 
Go I do beg you ! she said . 
What ! And leave you to that tyrant ? I can see in his face what a churl he is . 
HE'S not in love with me . 
I can leave at Lady Day . 
Well , I have no right but to obey , I suppose . 
To have as a master this man of stone , who would have cuffed her if he had dared , was almost a relief after her former experiences . 
If so be you make an agreement to work for me till Lady Day , I'll see that you carry it out , he growled . 
'Od rot the women now 'tis one thing , and then 'tis another . 
It would have lifted her completely out of subjection , not only to her present oppressive employer , but to a whole world who seemed to despise her . 
But no , no ! she said breathlessly I could not have married him now ! He is so unpleasant to me . 
That very night she began an appealing letter to Clare , concealing from him her hardships , and assuring him of her undying affection . 
But again she did not finish her effusion he had asked Izz to go with him , and perhaps he did not care for her at all . 
She put the letter in her box , and wondered if it would ever reach Angel's hands . 
After this her daily tasks were gone through heavily enough , and brought on the day which was of great import to agriculturists the day of the Candlemas Fair . 
It was a peaceful February day , of wonderful softness for the time , and one would almost have thought that winter was over . 
She had hardly finished her dinner when d'Urberville's figure darkened the window of the cottage wherein she was a lodger , which she had all to herself today . 
Tess jumped up , but her visitor had knocked at the door , and she could hardly in reason run away . 
D'Urberville's knock , his walk up to the door , had some indescribable quality of difference from his air when she last saw him . 
They seemed to be acts of which the doer was ashamed . 
She thought that she would not open the door but , as there was no sense in that either , she arose , and having lifted the latch stepped back quickly . 
He came in , saw her , and flung himself down into a chair before speaking . 
Tess I couldn't help it ! he began desperately , as he wiped his heated face , which had also a superimposed flush of excitement . 
I felt that I must call at least to ask how you are . 
If you would only pray for me , Tess ! The suppressed discontent of his manner was almost pitiable , and yet Tess did not pity him . 
I have been cured of the presumption of thinking otherwise . 
Cured ? By whom ? By my husband , if I must tell . 
Ah your husband your husband ! How strange it seems ! I remember you hinted something of the sort the other day . 
What do you really believe in these matters , Tess ? he asked . 
You seem to have no religion perhaps owing to me . 
Though I don't believe in anything supernatural . 
D'Urberville looked at her with misgiving . 
Then do you think that the line I take is all wrong ? A good deal of it . 
H'm and yet I've felt so sure about it , he said uneasily . 
I believe in the SPIRIT of the Sermon on the Mount , and so did my dear husband . 
But I don't believe Here she gave her negations . 
The fact is , said d'Urberville drily , whatever your dear husband believed you accept , and whatever he rejected you reject , without the least inquiry or reasoning on your own part . 
That's just like you women . 
Your mind is enslaved to his . 
Ah , because he knew everything ! said she , with a triumphant simplicity of faith in Angel Clare that the most perfect man could hardly have deserved , much less her husband . 
Yes , but you should not take negative opinions wholesale from another person like that . 
In delivering it she gave also Clare's accent and manner with reverential faithfulness . 
Say that again , asked d'Urberville , who had listened with the greatest attention . 
She repeated the argument , and d'Urberville thoughtfully murmured the words after her . 
Anything else ? he presently asked . 
I can't say I quite understand that one but I know it is right . 
Fancy your being able to teach me what you don't know yourself ! He fell into thought . 
And so I threw in my spiritual lot with his , she resumed . 
I didn't wish it to be different . 
What's good enough for him is good enough for me . 
Does he know that you are as big an infidel as he ? No I never told him if I am an infidel . 
He drew from his breast pocket a poster whereon was printed the day , hour , and place of meeting , at which he , d'Urberville , would preach the Gospel as aforesaid . 
But how can you get there ? said Tess , looking at the clock . 
I cannot get there ! I have come here . 
But you have been the means the innocent means of my backsliding , as they call it . 
I know it I repeat that I do not blame you . 
I have broken my engagement to preach to those poor drunken boobies at the fair it is the first time I have played such a practical joke . 
A month ago I should have been horrified at such a possibility . 
I'll go away to swear and ah , can I ! to keep away . 
Then , suddenly One clasp , Tessy one ! Only for old friendship I am without defence . 
Alec ! A good man's honour is in my keeping think be ashamed ! Pooh ! Well , yes yes ! He clenched his lips , mortified with himself for his weakness . 
His eyes were equally barren of worldly and religious faith . 
The corpses of those old fitful passions which had lain inanimate amid the lines of his face ever since his reformation seemed to wake and come together as in a resurrection . 
He moved on in silence , as if his energies were benumbed by the hitherto undreamt of possibility that his position was untenable . 
The drops of logic Tess had let fall into the sea of his enthusiasm served to chill its effervescence to stagnation . 
The dawn of the March morning is singularly inexpressive , and there is nothing to show where the eastern horizon lies . 
Against the twilight rises the trapezoidal top of the stack , which has stood forlornly here through the washing and bleaching of the wintry weather . 
A little way off there was another indistinct figure this one black , with a sustained hiss that spoke of strength very much in reserve . 
What he looked he felt . 
He was in the agricultural world , but not of it . 
He served fire and smoke these denizens of the fields served vegetation , weather , frost , and sun . 
He travelled with his engine from farm to farm , from county to county , for as yet the steam threshing machine was itinerant in this part of Wessex . 
The long strap which ran from the driving wheel of his engine to the red thresher under the rick was the sole tie line between agriculture and him . 
While they uncovered the sheaves he stood apathetic beside his portable repository of force , round whose hot blackness the morning air quivered . 
He had nothing to do with preparatory labour . 
His fire was waiting incandescent , his steam was at high pressure , in a few seconds he could make the long strap move at an invisible velocity . 
Beyond its extent the environment might be corn , straw , or chaos it was all the same to him . 
If any of the autochthonous idlers asked him what he called himself , he replied shortly , an engineer . 
The rick was unhaled by full daylight the men then took their places , the women mounted , and the work began . 
They were soon in full progress , after a preparatory hitch or two , which rejoiced the hearts of those who hated machinery . 
Those , too , on the corn rick talked a little but the perspiring ones at the machine , including Tess , could not lighten their duties by the exchange of many words . 
It was the ceaselessness of the work which tried her so severely , and began to make her wish that she had never some to Flintcomb Ash . 
The hum of the thresher , which prevented speech , increased to a raving whenever the supply of corn fell short of the regular quantity . 
He was dressed in a tweed suit of fashionable pattern , and he twirled a gay walking cane . 
Who is that ? said Izz Huett to Marian . 
She had at first addressed the inquiry to Tess , but the latter could not hear it . 
Somebody's fancy man , I s'pose , said Marian laconically . 
I'll lay a guinea he's after Tess . 
'Tis a ranter pa'son who's been sniffing after her lately not a dandy like this . 
Well this is the same man . 
D'ye really think so ? Then I'll tell her , said Marian . 
She'll see him soon enough , good now . 
Oh he can do her no harm , said Izz drily . 
Her mind can no more be heaved from that one place where it do bide than a stooded waggon from the hole he's in . 
Lord love 'ee , neither court paying , nor preaching , nor the seven thunders themselves , can wean a woman when 'twould be better for her that she should be weaned . 
Dinner time came , and the whirling ceased whereupon Tess left her post , her knees trembling so wretchedly with the shaking of the machine that she could scarcely walk . 
You ought to het a quart o' drink into 'ee , as I've done , said Marian . 
You wouldn't look so white then . 
Tess uttered a short little Oh ! And a moment after she said , quickly , I shall eat my dinner here right on the rick . 
The newcomer was , indeed , Alec d'Urberville , the late Evangelist , despite his changed attire and aspect . 
He strode across them , and sat down opposite of her without a word . 
Tess continued to eat her modest dinner , a slice of thick pancake which she had brought with her . 
The other workfolk were by this time all gathered under the rick , where the loose straw formed a comfortable retreat . 
I am here again , as you see , said d'Urberville . 
Why do you trouble me so ! she cried , reproach flashing from her very finger ends . 
The religious channel is left dry forthwith and it is you who have done it ! She gazed in silence . 
What you have given up your preaching entirely ? she asked . 
She had gathered from Angel sufficient of the incredulity of modern thought to despise flash enthusiasm but , as a woman , she was somewhat appalled . 
In affected severity d'Urberville continued Entirely . 
I have broken every engagement since that afternoon I was to address the drunkards at Casterbridge Fair . 
The deuce only knows what I am thought of by the brethren . 
Ah ha ! The brethren ! No doubt they pray for me weep for me for they are kind people in their way . 
What a grand revenge you have taken ! I saw you innocent , and I deceived you . 
Of course you have done nothing except retain your pretty face and shapely figure . 
D'Urberville rose and came nearer , reclining sideways amid the sheaves , and resting upon his elbow . 
Since I last saw you , I have been thinking of what you said that HE said . 
Why , you can have the religion of loving kindness and purity at least , if you can't have what do you call it dogma . 
But owing to Angel Clare's reticence , to her absolute want of training , and to her being a vessel of emotions rather than reasons , she could not get on . 
Well , never mind , he resumed . 
Here I am , my love , as in the old times ! Not as then never as then 'tis different ! she entreated . 
For all your closeness , I see you are in a bad way neglected by one who ought to cherish you . 
She could not get her morsels of food down her throat her lips were dry , and she was ready to choke . 
The voices and laughs of the workfolk eating and drinking under the rick came to her as if they were a quarter of a mile off . 
It is cruelty to me ! she said . 
How how can you treat me to this talk , if you care ever so little for me ? True , true , he said , wincing a little . 
I did not come to reproach you for my deeds . 
I came Tess , to say that I don't like you to be working like this , and I have come on purpose for you . 
However , even if you have one , I think I am nearer to you than he is . 
Tess , my trap is waiting just under the hill , and darling mine , not his ! you know the rest . 
Her face had been rising to a dull crimson fire while he spoke but she did not answer . 
It was heavy and thick as a warrior's , and it struck him flat on the mouth . 
Fancy might have regarded the act as the recrudescence of a trick in which her armed progenitors were not unpractised . 
Alec fiercely started up from his reclining position . 
A scarlet oozing appeared where her blow had alighted , and in a moment the blood began dropping from his mouth upon the straw . 
But he soon controlled himself , calmly drew his handkerchief from his pocket , and mopped his bleeding lips . 
She too had sprung up , but she sank down again . 
Now , punish me ! she said , turning up her eyes to him with the hopeless defiance of the sparrow's gaze before its captor twists its neck . 
Whip me , crush me you need not mind those people under the rick ! I shall not cry out . 
Once victim , always victim that's the law ! O no , no , Tess , he said blandly . 
I can make full allowance for this . 
Yet you most unjustly forget one thing , that I would have married you if you had not put it out of my power to do so . 
Did I not ask you flatly to be my wife hey ? Answer me . 
Remember , my lady , I was your master once ! I will be your master again . 
If you are any man's wife you are mine ! The threshers now began to stir below . 
So much for our quarrel , he said , letting her go . 
Now I shall leave you , and shall come again for your answer during the afternoon . 
You don't know me yet ! But I know you . 
She had not spoken again , remaining as if stunned . 
D'Urberville retreated over the sheaves , and descended the ladder , while the workers below rose and stretched their arms , and shook down the beer they had drunk . 
Hence the twanging and humming and rustling proceeded with even less intermission than usual . 
It was not till nammet time , about three o clock , that Tess raised her eyes and gave a momentary glance round . 
She felt but little surprise at seeing that Alec d'Urberville had come back , and was standing under the hedge by the gate . 
He had seen her lift her eyes , and waved his hand urbanely to her , while he blew her a kiss . 
It meant that their quarrel was over . 
Tess looked down again , and carefully abstained from gazing in that direction . 
Thus the afternoon dragged on . 
The wheat rick shrank lower , and the straw rick grew higher , and the corn sacks were carted away . 
At six o'clock the wheat rick was about shoulder high from the ground . 
And the immense stack of straw where in the morning there had been nothing , appeared as the FAECES of the same buzzing red glutton . 
A panting ache ran through the rick . 
The man who fed was weary , and Tess could see that the red nape of his neck was encrusted with dirt and husks . 
She still stood at her post , her flushed and perspiring face coated with the corndust , and her white bonnet embrowned by it . 
The incessant quivering , in which every fibre of her frame participated , had thrown her into a stupefied reverie in which her arms worked on independently of her consciousness . 
She hardly knew where she was , and did not hear Izz Huett tell her from below that her hair was tumbling down . 
By degrees the freshest among them began to grow cadaverous and saucer eyed . 
She knew that Alec d'Urberville was still on the scene , observing her from some point or other , though she could not say where . 
The sheaf pitchers and feeders had now worked the rick so low that people on the ground could talk to them . 
The friend was d'Urberville , she knew , and also that this concession had been granted in obedience to the request of that friend , or enemy . 
She shook her head and toiled on . 
The time for the rat catching arrived at last , and the hunt began . 
Her lover , who had only looked on at the rat catching , was promptly at her side . 
What after all my insulting slap , too ! said she in an underbreath . 
She was so utterly exhausted that she had not strength to speak louder . 
I should indeed be foolish to feel offended at anything you say or do , he answered , in the seductive voice of the Trantridge time . 
How the little limbs tremble ! You are as weak as a bled calf , you know you are and yet you need have done nothing since I arrived . 
How could you be so obstinate ? However , I have told the farmer that he has no right to employ women at steam threshing . 
It is not proper work for them and on all the better class of farms it has been given up , as he knows very well . 
I will walk with you as far as your home . 
O yes , she answered with a jaded gait . 
Walk wi' me if you will ! I do bear in mind that you came to marry me before you knew o' my state . 
Perhaps perhaps you are a little better and kinder than I have been thinking you were . 
Whatever is meant by kindness I am grateful for whatever is meant in any other way I am angered at . 
I cannot sense your meaning sometimes . 
If I cannot legitimize our former relations at least I can assist you . 
And I will do it with much more regard for your feelings than I formerly showed . 
My religious mania , or whatever it was , is over . 
But I retain a little good nature I hope I do . 
I can make them all comfortable if you will only show confidence in me . 
Have you seen 'em lately ? she quickly inquired . 
They didn't know where you were . 
It was only by chance that I found you here . 
The cold moon looked aslant upon Tess's fagged face between the twigs of the garden hedge as she paused outside the cottage which was her temporary home , d'Urberville pausing beside her . 
Don't mention my little brothers and sisters don't make me break down quite ! she said . 
If you want to help them God knows they need it do it without telling me . 
But no , no ! she cried . 
I fear to say who it is , and I do not like to write about it at all . 
The punishment you have measured out to me is deserved I do know that well deserved and you are right and just to be angry with me . 
I love you too much to blame you for going away , and I know it was necessary you should find a farm . 
Do not think I shall say a word of sting or bitterness . 
Only come back to me . 
What was the past to me as soon as I met you ? It was a dead thing altogether . 
I became another woman , filled full of new life from you . 
How silly I was in my happiness when I thought I could trust you always to love me ! I ought to have known that such as that was not for poor me . 
But I am sick at heart , not only for old times , but for the present . 
Perhaps I am what they say . 
I cannot say more about this it makes me too miserable . 
But if I break down by falling into some fearful snare , my last state will be worse than my first . 
He breathed deeply at the thought of her and the letter was redirected to be promptly sent on to Angel . 
Dear fellow , I hope he will get home safely , murmured Mrs Clare . 
To my dying day I shall feel that he had been ill used . 
You should have sent him to Cambridge in spite of his want of faith , and given him the same chance as the other boys had . 
He would have grown out of it under proper influence , and perhaps would have taken Orders after all . 
Church or no Church , it would have been fairer to him . 
This was the only wail with which Mrs Clare ever disturbed her husband's peace in respect to their sons . 
Only too often had she heard him lying awake at night , stifling sighs for Angel with prayers . 
Nevertheless , he loved his misnamed Angel , and in secret mourned over this treatment of him as Abraham might have mourned over the doomed Isaac while they went up the hill together . 
His silent self generated regrets were far bitterer than the reproaches which his wife rendered audible . 
They blamed themselves for this unlucky marriage . 
If Angel had never been destined for a farmer he would never have been thrown with agricultural girls . 
They did not distinctly know what had separated him and his wife , nor the date on which the separation had taken place . 
At first they had supposed it must be something of the nature of a serious aversion . 
He had told them that she was with her relatives , and in their doubts they had decided not to intrude into a situation which they knew no way of bettering . 
His experiences of this strange land had been sad . 
The crowds of agricultural labourers who had come out to the country in his wake , dazzled by representations of easy independence , had suffered , died , and wasted away . 
Angel's original intention had not been emigration to Brazil but a northern or eastern farm in his own country . 
He had come to this place in a fit of desperation , the Brazil movement among the English agriculturists having by chance coincided with his desire to escape from his past existence . 
During this time of absence he had mentally aged a dozen years . 
What arrested him now as of value in life was less its beauty than its pathos . 
Having long discredited the old systems of mysticism , he now began to discredit the old appraisements of morality . 
He thought they wanted readjusting . 
How , then , about Tess ? Viewing her in these lights , a regret for his hasty judgement began to oppress him . 
He was greatly perplexed and in his perplexity as to her motives in withholding intelligence he did not inquire . 
Thus her silence of docility was misinterpreted . 
In the before mentioned journey by mules through the interior of the country , another man rode beside him . 
Angel's companion was also an Englishman , bent on the same errand , though he came from another part of the island . 
They were both in a state of mental depression , and they spoke of home affairs . 
The next day they were drenched in a thunder storm . 
Angel's companion was struck down with fever , and died by the week's end . 
Clare waited a few hours to bury him , and then went on his way . 
His own parochialism made him ashamed by its contrast . 
His inconsistencies rushed upon him in a flood . 
He had persistently elevated Hellenic Paganism at the expense of Christianity yet in that civilization an illegal surrender was not certain disesteem . 
A remorse struck into him . 
The words of Izz Huett , never quite stilled in his memory , came back to him . 
He had asked Izz if she loved him , and she had replied in the affirmative . 
Did she love him more than Tess did ? No , she had replied Tess would lay down her life for him , and she herself could do no more . 
He thought of Tess as she had appeared on the day of the wedding . 
Thus from being her critic he grew to be her advocate . 
Cynical things he had uttered to himself about her but no man can be always a cynic and live and he withdrew them . 
The mistake of expressing them had arisen from his allowing himself to be influenced by general principles to the disregard of the particular instance . 
But the reasoning is somewhat musty lovers and husbands have gone over the ground before today . 
Clare had been harsh towards her there is no doubt of it . 
Men are too often harsh with women they love or have loved women with men . 
The historic interest of her family that masterful line of d'Urbervilles whom he had despised as a spent force , touched his sentiments now . 
So does Time ruthlessly destroy his own romances . 
Despite her not inviolate past , what still abode in such a woman as Tess outvalued the freshness of her fellows . 
Meanwhile the writer's expectation that Angel would come in response to the entreaty was alternately great and small . 
Nevertheless she addressed her mind to the tender question of what she could do to please him best if he should arrive . 
To perfect the ballads was now her whimsical desire . 
But before the quarter day had quite come something happened which made Tess think of far different matters . 
She was at her lodging as usual one evening , sitting in the downstairs room with the rest of the family , when somebody knocked at the door and inquired for Tess . 
Her thin legs , visible below her once long frock now short by her growing , and her uncomfortable hands and arms , revealed her youth and inexperience . 
Yes , I have been traipsing about all day , Tess , said Lu , with unemotional gravity , a trying to find 'ee and I'm very tired . 
Tess stood in reverie a long time before she thought of asking 'Liza Lu to come in and sit down . 
When she had done so , and 'Liza Lu was having some tea , she came to a decision . 
It was imperative that she should go home . 
To go that night would be a gain of twelve hours but her sister was too tired to undertake such a distance till the morrow . 
Tess ran down to where Marian and Izz lived , informed them of what had happened , and begged them to make the best of her case to the farmer . 
L She plunged into the chilly equinoctial darkness as the clock struck ten , for her fifteen miles' walk under the steely stars . 
Having already traversed about five miles on the upland she had now some ten or eleven in the lowland before her journey would be finished . 
It was the heavy clay land of Blackmoor Vale , and a part of the Vale to which turnpike roads had never penetrated . 
Superstitions linger longest on these heavy soils . 
At Nuttlebury she passed the village inn , whose sign creaked in response to the greeting of her footsteps , which not a human soul heard but herself . 
In the direction of her mother's house she saw a light . 
It came from the bedroom window , and a branch waved in front of it and made it wink at her . 
As soon as she could discern the outline of the house newly thatched with her money it had all its old effect upon Tess's imagination . 
A stupefaction had come into these features , to her regard it meant the illness of her mother . 
Tess prepared herself a breakfast , and then took her place as nurse in her mother's chamber . 
Her father's ill health was the same indefinite kind , and he sat in his chair as usual . 
But the day after her arrival he was unusually bright . 
He had a rational scheme for living , and Tess asked him what it was . 
I'm thinking of sending round to all the old antiqueerians in this part of England , he said , asking them to subscribe to a fund to maintain me . 
I'm sure they'd see it as a romantical , artistical , and proper thing to do . 
Tess postponed her arguments on this high project till she had grappled with pressing matters in hand , which seemed little improved by her remittances . 
When indoor necessities had been eased she turned her attention to external things . 
It was now the season for planting and sowing many gardens and allotments of the villagers had already received their spring tillage but the garden and the allotment of the Durbeyfields were behindhand . 
She found , to her dismay , that this was owing to their having eaten all the seed potatoes , that last lapse of the improvident . 
She liked doing it after the confinement of the sick chamber , where she was not now required by reason of her mother's improvement . 
Digging began usually at six o'clock , and extended indefinitely into the dusk or moonlight . 
Just now heaps of dead weeds and refuse were burning on many of the plots , the dry weather favouring their combustion . 
One fine day Tess and 'Liza Lu worked on here with their neighbours till the last rays of the sun smote flat upon the white pegs that divided the plots . 
It was on one of the couch burning plots that she laboured with her fork , its four shining prongs resounding against the stones and dry clods in little clicks . 
Sometimes she was completely involved in the smoke of her fire then it would leave her figure free , irradiated by the brassy glare from the heap . 
Westward , the wiry boughs of the bare thorn hedge which formed the boundary of the field rose against the pale opalescence of the lower sky . 
Above , Jupiter hung like a full blown jonquil , so bright as almost to throw a shade . 
A few small nondescript stars were appearing elsewhere . 
In the distance a dog barked , and wheels occasionally rattled along the dry road . 
Something in the place , the hours , the crackling fires , the fantastic mysteries of light and shade , made others as well as Tess enjoy being there . 
Nightfall , which in the frost of winter comes as a fiend and in the warmth of summer as a lover , came as a tranquillizer on this March day . 
Nobody looked at his or her companions . 
The eyes of all were on the soil as its turned surface was revealed by the fires . 
She became more conscious of him when the direction of his digging brought him closer . 
Sometimes the smoke divided them then it swerved , and the two were visible to each other but divided from all the rest . 
Tess did not speak to her fellow worker , nor did he speak to her . 
By and by he dug so close to her that the fire beams were reflected as distinctly from the steel prongs of his fork as from her own . 
On going up to the fire to throw a pitch of dead weeds upon it , she found that he did the same on the other side . 
The fire flared up , and she beheld the face of d'Urberville . 
D'Urberville emitted a low long laugh . 
If I were inclined to joke I should say , How much this seems like Paradise ! he remarked whimsically , looking at her with an inclined head . 
What do you say ? she weakly asked . 
A jester might say this is just like Paradise . 
You are Eve , and I am the old Other One come to tempt you in the disguise of an inferior animal . 
I used to be quite up in that scene of Milton's when I was theological . 
Some of it goes Empress , the way is ready , and not long , Beyond a row of myrtles . 
If thou accept My conduct , I can bring thee thither soon . 
Lead then , said Eve . 
My dear Tess , I am only putting this to you as a thing that you might have supposed or said quite untruly , because you think so badly of me . 
I never said you were Satan , or thought it . 
I don't think of you in that way at all . 
My thoughts of you are quite cold , except when you affront me . 
What , did you come digging here entirely because of me ? Entirely . 
To see you nothing more . 
The smockfrock , which I saw hanging for sale as I came along , was an afterthought , that I mightn't be noticed . 
I come to protest against your working like this . 
But I like doing it it is for my father . 
Your engagement at the other place is ended ? Yes . 
Where are you going to next ? To join your dear husband ? She could not bear the humiliating reminder . 
O I don't know ! she said bitterly . 
I have no husband ! It is quite true in the sense you mean . 
But you have a friend , and I have determined that you shall be comfortable in suite of yourself . 
When you get down to your house you will see what I have sent there for you . 
I am not going to see a woman whom I feel so tenderly for as I do for you , in trouble without trying to help her . 
About the children your brothers and sisters , he resumed . 
I've been thinking of them . 
Tess's heart quivered he was touching her in a weak place . 
He had divined her chief anxiety . 
Since returning home her soul had gone out to those children with an affection that was passionate . 
If your mother does not recover , somebody ought to do something for them since your father will not be able to do much , I suppose ? He can with my assistance . 
He must ! And with mine . 
No , sir ! How damned foolish this is ! burst out d'Urberville . 
Why , he thinks we are the same family and will be quite satisfied ! He don't . 
Tess could not get on with her digging after this she felt restless she wondered if he had gone back to her father's house and taking the fork in her hand proceeded homewards . 
Some twenty yards from the house she was met by one of her sisters . 
He dropped down just now , and the doctor who was there for mother said there was no chance for him , because his heart was growed in . 
Yes the Durbeyfield couple had changed places the dying one was out of danger , and the indisposed one was dead . 
The news meant even more than it sounded . 
Her father's life had a value apart from his personal achievements , or perhaps it would not have had much . 
Moreover , liviers were disapproved of in villages almost as much as little freeholders , because of their independence of manner , and when a lease determined it was never renewed . 
So do flux and reflux the rhythm of change alternate and persist in everything under the sky . 
LI At length it was the eve of Old Lady Day , and the agricultural world was in a fever of mobility such as only occurs at that particular date of the year . 
It is a day of fulfilment agreements for outdoor service during the ensuing year , entered into at Candlemas , are to be now carried out . 
These annual migrations from farm to farm were on the increase here . 
With the younger families it was a pleasant excitement which might possibly be an advantage . 
However , all the mutations so increasingly discernible in village life did not originate entirely in the agricultural unrest . 
A depopulation was also going on . 
But as the long holdings fell in they were seldom again let to similar tenants , and were mostly pulled down , if not absolutely required by the farmer for his hands . 
Cottagers who were not directly employed on the land were looked upon with disfavour , and the banishment of some starved the trade of others , who were thus obliged to follow . 
The cottage accommodation at Marlott having been in this manner considerably curtailed by demolitions , every house which remained standing was required by the agriculturist for his work people . 
had been tacitly looked on as one which would have to go when their lease ended , if only in the interests of morality . 
It was , indeed , quite true that the household had not been shining examples either of temperance , soberness , or chastity . 
The father , and even the mother , had got drunk at times , the younger children seldom had gone to church , and the eldest daughter had made queer unions . 
By some means the village had to be kept pure . 
On the evening preceding their removal it was getting dark betimes by reason of a drizzling rain which blurred the sky . 
She was kneeling in the window bench , her face close to the casement , where an outer pane of rain water was sliding down the inner pane of glass . 
Tess was reflecting on the position of the household , in which she perceived her own evil influence . 
Had she not come home her mother and the children might probably have been allowed to stay on as weekly tenants . 
I ought never to have come home , said Tess to herself , bitterly . 
She was so intent upon these thoughts that she hardly at first took note of a man in a white mackintosh whom she saw riding down the street . 
It was not till he touched the window with his riding crop that she observed him . 
The rain had nearly ceased , and she opened the casement in obedience to his gesture . 
Didn't you see me ? asked d'Urberville . 
I was not attending , she said . 
I heard you , I believe , though I fancied it was a carriage and horses . 
I was in a sort of dream . 
Ah ! you heard the d'Urberville Coach , perhaps . 
You know the legend , I suppose ? No. My somebody was going to tell it me once , but didn't . 
If you are a genuine d'Urberville I ought not to tell you either , I suppose . 
As for me , I'm a sham one , so it doesn't matter . 
It has to do with a murder , committed by one of the family , centuries ago . 
Now you have begun it , finish it . 
Such is one version of the tale . 
I see that your tubs and buckets are packed . 
Going away , aren't you ? Yes , tomorrow Old Lady Day . 
I heard you were , but could hardly believe it it seems so sudden . 
Why is it ? Father's was the last life on the property , and when that dropped we had no further right to stay . 
Though we might , perhaps , have stayed as weekly tenants if it had not been for me . 
What about you ? I am not a proper woman . 
What a blasted shame ! Miserable snobs ! May their dirty souls be burnt to cinders ! he exclaimed in tones of ironic resentment . 
Where are you going to ? Kingsbere . 
We have taken rooms there . 
Mother is so foolish about father's people that she will go there . 
But your mother's family are not fit for lodgings , and in a little hole of a town like that . 
It can be whitewashed in a day , and your mother can live there quite comfortably and I will put the children to a good school . 
Really I ought to do something for you ! But we have already taken the rooms at Kingsbere ! she declared . 
And we can wait there Wait what for ? For that nice husband , no doubt . 
Now , though I have been your enemy , I am your friend , even if you won't believe it . 
Come to this cottage of mine . 
We'll get up a regular colony of fowls , and your mother can attend to them excellently and the children can go to school . 
I would guarantee you against such as that in writing , if necessary . 
But d'Urberville persisted she had seldom seen him so determined he would not take a negative . 
Please just tell your mother , he said , in emphatic tones . 
It is her business to judge not yours . 
I shall get the house swept out and whitened tomorrow morning , and fires lit and it will be dry by the evening , so that you can come straight there . 
Now mind , I shall expect you . 
Tess again shook her head her throat swelling with complicated emotion . 
She could not look up at d'Urberville . 
I owe you something for the past , you know , he resumed . 
Tomorrow I shall expect to hear your mother's goods unloading . 
With stormy eyes she pulled the stay bar quickly , and , in doing so , caught his arm between the casement and the stone mullion . 
Damnation you are very cruel ! he said , snatching out his arm . 
No , no ! I know you didn't do it on purpose . 
Well I shall expect you , or your mother and children at least . 
I shall not come I have plenty of money ! she cried . 
Where ? At my father in law's , if I ask for it . 
IF you ask for it . 
But you won't , Tess I know you you'll never ask for it you'll starve first ! With these words he rode off . 
Just at the corner of the street he met the man with the paint pot , who asked him if he had deserted the brethren . 
You go to the devil ! said d'Urberville . 
Tess remained where she was a long while , till a sudden rebellious sense of injustice caused the region of her eyes to swell with the rush of hot tears thither . 
It was just as well to write like that as to write tenderly . 
How could he give way to entreaty ? The facts had not changed there was no new event to alter his opinion . 
It grew darker , the fire light shining over the room . 
Tess at length joined them , without lighting a candle . 
This is the last night that we shall sleep here , dears , in the house where we were born , she said quickly . 
Sing to me , dears , she said . 
What shall we sing ? Anything you know I don't mind . 
The four sang on with the phlegmatic passivity of persons who had long ago settled the question , and there being no mistake about it , felt that further thought was not required . 
With features strained hard to enunciate the syllables they continued to regard the centre of the flickering fire , the notes of the youngest straying over into the pauses of the rest . 
Tess turned from them , and went to the window again . 
Darkness had now fallen without , but she put her face to the pane as though to peer into the gloom . 
It was really to hide her tears . 
To her and her like , birth itself was an ordeal of degrading personal compulsion , whose gratuitousness nothing in the result seemed to justify , and at best could only palliate . 
In the shades of the wet road she soon discerned her mother with tall 'Liza Lu and Abraham . 
Mrs Durbeyfield's pattens clicked up to the door , and Tess opened it . 
I see the tracks of a horse outside the window , said Joan . 
Hev somebody called ? No , said Tess . 
The children by the fire looked gravely at her , and one murmured Why , Tess , the gentleman a horseback ! He didn't call , said Tess . 
He spoke to me in passing . 
Who was the gentleman ? asked the mother . 
Your husband ? No. He'll never , never come , answered Tess in stony hopelessness . 
Then who was it ? Oh , you needn't ask . 
You've seen him before , and so have I. Ah ! What did he say ? said Joan curiously . 
I will tell you when we are settled in our lodging at Kingsbere tomorrow every word . 
It was not her husband , she had said . 
Yet a consciousness that in a physical sense this man alone was her husband seemed to weigh on her more and more . 
But to Tess and her mother's household no such anxious farmer sent his team . 
They were only women they were not regular labourers they were not particularly required anywhere hence they had to hire a waggon at their own expense , and got nothing sent gratuitously . 
A wet Lady Day was a spectre which removing families never forgot damp furniture , damp bedding , damp clothing accompanied it , and left a train of ills . 
Her mother , 'Liza Lu , and Abraham were also awake , but the younger children were let sleep on . 
The four breakfasted by the thin light , and the house ridding was taken in hand . 
It proceeded with some cheerfulness , a friendly neighbour or two assisting . 
Tess and the next eldest girl walked alongside till they were out of the village . 
Soon the equipage began to ascend to higher ground , and the wind grew keener with the change of level and soil . 
She followed one of the mug's journeys upward , and perceived it to be clasped by hands whose owner she well knew . 
Tess went towards the waggon . 
Marian and Izz ! she cried to the girls , for it was they , sitting with the moving family at whose house they had lodged . 
Are you house ridding today , like everybody else ? They were , they said . 
It had been too rough a life for them at Flintcomb Ash , and they had come away , almost without notice , leaving Groby to prosecute them if he chose . 
They told Tess their destination , and Tess told them hers . 
Marian leant over the load , and lowered her voice . 
Ah but I did see him ! Tess murmured . 
And do he know where you be going ? I think so . 
The contrast well marked the difference between being fetched by a thriving farmer and conveying oneself whither no hirer waited one's coming . 
The distance was great too great for a day's journey and it was with the utmost difficulty that the horses performed it . 
Though they had started so early it was quite late in the afternoon when they turned the flank of an eminence which formed part of the upland called Greenhill . 
While the horses stood to stale and breathe themselves Tess looked around . 
A man could be seen advancing from the outskirts towards them , and when he beheld the nature of their waggon load he quickened his steps . 
You be the woman they call Mrs Durbeyfield , I reckon ? he said to Tess's mother , who had descended to walk the remainder of the way . 
Though widow of the late Sir John d'Urberville , poor nobleman , if I cared for my rights and returning to the domain of his forefathers . 
Oh ? Well , I know nothing about that but if you be Mrs Durbeyfield , I am sent to tell 'ee that the rooms you wanted be let . 
We didn't know that you was coming till we got your letter this morning when 'twas too late . 
But no doubt you can get other lodgings somewhere . 
The man had noticed the face of Tess , which had become ash pale at his intelligence . 
Her mother looked hopelessly at fault . 
What shall we do now , Tess ? she said bitterly . 
Here's a welcome to your ancestors' lands ! However , let's try further . 
They moved on into the town , and tried with all their might , Tess remaining with the waggon to take care of the children whilst her mother and 'Liza Lu made inquiries . 
Very well unload it here , said Joan recklessly . 
The waggon had drawn up under the churchyard wall , in a spot screened from view , and the driver , nothing loth , soon hauled down the poor heap of household goods . 
It was a dry night , and he guessed that they would come to no harm . 
Tess gazed desperately at the pile of furniture . 
Hard by , the aisle of the church called the d'Urberville Aisle looked on imperturbably . 
Isn't your family vault your own freehold ? said Tess's mother , as she returned from a reconnoitre of the church and graveyard . 
We'll make a nest for these children , and then we'll have another look round . 
Over the tester of the bedstead was a beautiful traceried window , of many lights , its date being the fifteenth century . 
It was called the d'Urberville Window , and in the upper part could be discerned heraldic emblems like those on Durbeyfield's old seal and spoon . 
Joan drew the curtains round the bed so as to make an excellent tent of it , and put the smaller children inside . 
If it comes to the worst we can sleep there too , for one night , she said . 
As soon as they got into the street they beheld a man on horseback gazing up and down . 
Ah I'm looking for you ! he said , riding up to them . 
This is indeed a family gathering on the historic spot ! It was Alec d'Urberville . 
Where is Tess ? he asked . 
Personally Joan had no liking for Alec . 
When they had gone d'Urberville rode to the inn , and shortly after came out on foot . 
The door of the church was unfastened , and she entered it for the first time in her life . 
Within the window under which the bedstead stood were the tombs of the family , covering in their dates several centuries . 
They were canopied , alter shaped , and plain their carvings being defaced and broken their brasses torn from the matrices , the rivet holes remaining like martin holes in a sandcliff . 
Of all the reminders that she had ever received that her people were socially extinct there was none so forcible as this spoliation . 
She musingly turned to withdraw , passing near an altertomb , the oldest of them all , on which was a recumbent figure . 
In the dusk she had not noticed it before , and would hardly have noticed it now but for an odd fancy that the effigy moved . 
He leapt off the slab and supported her . 
I saw you come in , he said smiling , and got up there not to interrupt your meditations . 
A family gathering , is it not , with these old fellows under us here ? Listen . 
He stamped with his heel heavily on the floor whereupon there arose a hollow echo from below . 
That shook them a bit , I'll warrant ! he continued . 
And you thought I was the mere stone reproduction of one of them . 
The little finger of the sham d'Urberville can do more for you than the whole dynasty of the real underneath . 
What shall I do ? Go away ! she murmured . 
I will I'll look for your mother , said he blandly . 
But the girls did not for a long time think of where they were going . 
Their talk was of Angel Clare and Tess , and Tess's persistent lover , whose connection with her previous history they had partly heard and partly guessed ere this . 
'Tisn't as though she had never known him afore , said Marian . 
His having won her once makes all the difference in the world . 
'Twould be a thousand pities if he were to tole her away again . 
Could we let him know ? They thought of this all the way to their destination but the bustle of re establishment in their new place took up all their attention then . 
But when they were settled , a month later , they heard of Clare's approaching return , though they had learnt nothing more of Tess . 
HONOUR'D SIR Look to your Wife if you do love her as much as she do love you . 
For she is sore put to by an Enemy in the shape of a Friend . 
Sir , there is one near her who ought to be Away . 
A woman should not be try'd beyond her Strength , and continual dropping will wear away a Stone ay , more a Diamond . 
END OF PHASE THE SIXTH Phase the Seventh Fulfilment LIII It was evening at Emminster Vicarage . 
The two customary candles were burning under their green shades in the Vicar's study , but he had not been sitting there . 
It faced westward , and though gloom prevailed inside , there was still light enough without to see with distinctness . 
Mrs Clare , who had been sitting in the drawing room , followed him hither . 
Plenty of time yet , said the Vicar . 
But he has done it in an hour with us , my dear . 
Thus they passed the minutes , each well knowing that this was only waste of breath , the one essential being simply to wait . 
At length there was a slight noise in the lane , and the old pony chaise appeared indeed outside the railings . 
Mrs Clare rushed through the dark passage to the door , and her husband came more slowly after her . 
O , it is not Angel not my son the Angel who went away ! she cried in all the irony of sorrow , as she turned herself aside . 
You could see the skeleton behind the man , and almost the ghost behind the skeleton . 
He matched Crivelli's dead CHRISTUS . 
His sunken eye pits were of morbid hue , and the light in his eyes had waned . 
The angular hollows and lines of his aged ancestors had succeeded to their reign in his face twenty years before their time . 
I was ill over there , you know , he said . 
I am all right now . 
As if , however , to falsify this assertion , his legs seemed to give way , and he suddenly sat down to save himself from falling . 
It was only a slight attack of faintness , resulting from the tedious day's journey , and the excitement of arrival . 
Has any letter come for me lately ? he asked . 
I received the last you sent on by the merest chance , and after considerable delay through being inland or I might have come sooner . 
It was from your wife , we supposed ? It was . 
Only one other had recently come . 
They had not sent it on to him , knowing he would start for home so soon . 
He hastily opened the letter produced , and was much disturbed to read in Tess's handwriting the sentiments expressed in her last hurried scrawl to him . 
O why have you treated me so monstrously , Angel ! I do not deserve it . 
It is all injustice I have received at your hands . 
T It is quite true ! said Angel , throwing down the letter . 
Perhaps she will never be reconciled to me ! Don't , Angel , be so anxious about a mere child of the soil ! said his mother . 
Child of the soil ! Well , we all are children of the soil . 
He soon retired to bed and the next morning , feeling exceedingly unwell , he remained in his room pondering . 
Supposing that her love had indeed turned to dislike during the last weeks of separation , a sudden meeting might lead to bitter words . 
J do not feel at liberty to tell you Where she is temperly biding . 
J should say that me and my Family have left Marlott for some Time . 
They were all angry with him , evidently . 
He would wait till Mrs Durbeyfield could inform him of Tess's return , which her letter implied to be soon . 
His had been a love which alters when it alteration finds . 
The strength showed signs of coming back , but there was no sign of Joan's letter . 
Then he hunted up the old letter sent on to him in Brazil , which Tess had written from Flintcomb Ash , and re read it . 
The sentences touched him now as much as when he had first perused them . 
I must cry to you in my trouble I have no one else . 
I think I must die if you do not come soon , or tell me to come to you . 
Please , please , not to be just only a little kind to me ! . 
If you would come , I could die in your arms ! I would be well content to do that if so be you had forgiven me ! . 
If you will send me one little line and say , I AM COMING SOON , I will bide on , Angel O so cheerfully ! . 
It might lead you to show pity to your poor lonely one . 
Clare determined that he would no longer believe in her more recent and severer regard of him but would go and find her immediately . 
He asked his father if she had applied for any money during his absence . 
His father returned a negative , and then for the first time it occurred to Angel that her pride had stood in her way , and that she had suffered privation . 
LIV In a quarter of an hour Clare was leaving the house , whence his mother watched his thin figure as it disappeared into the street . 
He had declined to borrow his father's old mare , well knowing of its necessity to the household . 
He went to the inn , where he hired a trap , and could hardly wait during the harnessing . 
The pale and blasted nettle stems of the preceding year even now lingered nakedly in the banks , young green nettles of the present spring growing from their roots . 
rather than apply to his father for more funds . 
The house in which Tess had passed the years of her childhood was now inhabited by another family who had never known her . 
Even the spring birds sang over their heads as if they thought there was nobody missing in particular . 
By this time Clare abhorred the house for ceasing to contain Tess , and hastened away from its hated presence without once looking back . 
His way was by the field in which he had first beheld her at the dance . 
It was as bad as the house even worse . 
He passed on through the churchyard , where , amongst the new headstones , he saw one of a somewhat superior design to the rest . 
Died March th , HOW ARE THE MIGHTY FALLEN . 
Some man , apparently the sexton , had observed Clare standing there , and drew nigh . 
Ah , sir , now that's a man who didn't want to lie here , but wished to be carried to Kingsbere , where his ancestors be . 
And why didn't they respect his wish ? Oh no money . 
Ah , who put it up ? The man told the name of a mason in the village , and , on leaving the churchyard , Clare called at the mason's house . 
He found that the statement was true , and paid the bill . 
This done he turned in the direction of the migrants . 
It was plain that for some reason or other she had not wished him to visit her , and he felt his call to be somewhat of an intrusion . 
She came to the door herself , and the light from the evening sky fell upon her face . 
He was obliged to explain that he was Tess's husband , and his object in coming there , and he did it awkwardly enough . 
I want to see her at once , he added . 
You said you would write to me again , but you have not done so . 
Because she've not come home , said Joan . 
Do you know if she is well ? I don't . 
But you ought to , sir , said she . 
Where is she staying ? From the beginning of the interview Joan had disclosed her embarrassment by keeping her hand to the side of her cheek . 
I don't know exactly where she is staying , she answered . 
She was but Where was she ? Well , she is not there now . 
Clare saw her efforts for reticence , and asked Do you think Tess would wish me to try and find her ? If not , of course I don't think she would . 
Are you sure ? I am sure she wouldn't . 
He was turning away and then he thought of Tess's tender letter . 
I am sure she would ! he retorted passionately . 
I know her better than you do . 
That's very likely , sir for I have never really known her . 
Ah where there ? Sandbourne has become a large place , they say . 
I don't know more particularly than I have said Sandbourne . 
For myself , I was never there . 
It was apparent that Joan spoke the truth in this , and he pressed her no further . 
Are you in want of anything ? he said gently . 
No , sir , she replied . 
We are fairly well provided for . 
Without entering the house Clare turned away . 
There was a station three miles ahead , and paying off his coachman , he walked thither . 
The last train to Sandbourne left shortly after , and it bore Clare on its wheels . 
It was too late to call on or inquire for any one , and he reluctantly postponed his purpose till the morning . 
But he could not retire to rest just yet . 
Yet the exotic had grown here , suddenly as the prophet's gourd and had drawn hither Tess . 
It was a city of detached mansions a Mediterranean lounging place on the English Channel and as seen now by night it seemed even more imposing than it was . 
Where could Tess possibly be , a cottage girl , his young wife , amidst all this wealth and fashion ? The more he pondered the more was he puzzled . 
Were there any cows to milk here ? There certainly were no fields to till . 
Conjecture was useless , and just after twelve o'clock he entered and went to bed . 
Before putting out his light he re read Tess's impassioned letter . 
He might almost as well have sat up all night . 
In the morning he arose at seven , and shortly after went out , taking the direction of the chief post office . 
At the door he met an intelligent postman coming out with letters for the morning delivery . 
Do you know the address of a Mrs Clare ? asked Angel . 
The postman shook his head . 
There's visitors coming and going every day , as you know , sir , he said and without the name of the house 'tis impossible to find 'em . 
One of his comrades hastening out at that moment , the name was repeated to him . 
I know no name of Durbeyfield but there is the name of d'Urberville at The Herons , said the second . 
That's it ! cried Clare , pleased to think that she has reverted to the real pronunciation . 
What place is The Herons ? A stylish lodging house . 
'Tis all lodging houses here , bless 'ee . 
Clare received directions how to find the house , and hastened thither , arriving with the milkman . 
If poor Tess was a servant here , as he feared , she would go to the back door to that milkman , and he was inclined to go thither also . 
However , in his doubts he turned to the front , and rang . 
The hour being early the landlady herself opened the door . 
Clare inquired for Teresa d'Urberville or Durbeyfield . 
Tess , then , passed as a married woman , and he felt glad , even though she had not adopted his name . 
Will you kindly tell her that a relative is anxious to see her ? It is rather early . 
What name shall I give , sir ? Angel . 
Mr Angel ? No Angel . 
It is my Christian name . 
I'll see if she is awake . 
He was shown into the front room the dining room and looked out through the spring curtains at the little lawn , and the rhododendrons and other shrubs upon it . 
Obviously her position was by no means so bad as he had feared , and it crossed his mind that she must somehow have claimed and sold the jewels to attain it . 
He did not blame her for one moment . 
Soon his sharpened ear detected footsteps upon the stairs , at which his heart thumped so painfully that he could hardly stand firm . 
Dear me ! what will she think of me , so altered as I am ! he said to himself and the door opened . 
Tess appeared on the threshold not at all as he had expected to see her bewilderingly otherwise , indeed . 
Her great natural beauty was , if not heightened , rendered more obvious by her attire . 
She was loosely wrapped in a cashmere dressing gown of gray white , embroidered in half mourning tints , and she wore slippers of the same hue . 
He had held out his arms , but they had fallen again to his side for she had not come forward , remaining still in the opening of the doorway . 
Mere yellow skeleton that he was now he felt the contrast between them , and thought his appearance distasteful to her . 
I did not think rightly of you I did not see you as you were ! he continued to plead . 
Don't come close to me , Angel ! No you must not . 
She seemed to feel like a fugitive in a dream , who tries to move away , but cannot . 
Don't you know all don't you know it ? Yet how do you come here if you do not know ? I inquired here and there , and I found the way . 
I waited and waited for you , she went on , her tones suddenly resuming their old fluty pathos . 
He was very kind to me , and to mother , and to all of us after father's death . 
He has won me back to him . 
She continued He is upstairs . 
Both seemed to implore something to shelter them from reality . 
Ah it is my fault ! said Clare . 
But he could not get on . 
Speech was as inexpressive as silence . 
A few instants passed , and he found that Tess was gone . 
LVI Mrs Brooks , the lady who was the householder at The Herons , and owner of all the handsome furniture , was not a person of an unusually curious turn of mind . 
She heard Tess re ascend the stairs to the first floor , and the departure of Clare , and the closing of the front door behind him . 
Then the door of the room above was shut , and Mrs Brooks knew that Tess had re entered her apartment . 
As the young lady was not fully dressed , Mrs Brooks knew that she would not emerge again for some time . 
by folding doors in the common manner . 
This first floor , containing Mrs Brooks's best apartments , had been taken by the week by the d'Urbervilles . 
The back room was now in silence but from the drawing room there came sounds . 
It was from her lips that came the murmur of unspeakable despair . 
Mrs Brooks could only catch a portion And then my dear , dear husband came home to me . 
and I did not know it ! . 
And you had used your cruel persuasion upon me . 
you did not stop using it no you did not stop ! My little sisters and brothers and my mother's needs they were the things you moved me by . 
and you said my husband would never come back never and you taunted me , and said what a simpleton I was to expect him ! . 
And at last I believed you and gave way ! . 
And then he came back ! Now he is gone . 
Gone a second time , and I have lost him now for ever . 
and he will not love me the littlest bit ever any more only hate me ! . 
She continued And he is dying he looks as if he is dying ! . 
And my sin will kill him and not kill me ! . 
O , you have torn my life all to pieces . 
made me be what I prayed you in pity not to make me be again ! . 
Mrs Brooks , thinking that the speaker was coming to rush out of the door , hastily retreated down the stairs . 
She need not have done so , however , for the door of the sitting room was not opened . 
But Mrs Brooks felt it unsafe to watch on the landing again , and entered her own parlour below . 
She could hear nothing through the floor , although she listened intently , and thereupon went to the kitchen to finish her interrupted breakfast . 
Mrs Brooks had not been able to catch any word of farewell , temporary or otherwise , between her tenants at the door above . 
They might have quarrelled , or Mr d'Urberville might still be asleep , for he was not an early riser . 
She went into the back room which was more especially her own apartment , and continued her sewing there . 
The lady lodger did not return , nor did the gentleman ring his bell . 
Mrs Brooks pondered on the delay , and on what probable relation the visitor who had called so early bore to the couple upstairs . 
In reflecting she leant back in her chair . 
As she did so her eyes glanced casually over the ceiling till they were arrested by a spot in the middle of its white surface which she had never noticed there before . 
The oblong white ceiling , with this scarlet blot in the midst , had the appearance of a gigantic ace of hearts . 
Mrs Brooks had strange qualms of misgiving . 
She got upon the table , and touched the spot in the ceiling with her fingers . 
It was damp , and she fancied that it was a blood stain . 
Descending from the table , she left the parlour , and went upstairs , intending to enter the room overhead , which was the bedchamber at the back of the drawing room . 
But , nerveless woman as she had now become , she could not bring herself to attempt the handle . 
The dead silence within was broken only by a regular beat . 
Drip , drip , drip . 
Mrs Brooks hastened downstairs , opened the front door , and ran into the street . 
The workman assented , and followed her to the landing . 
She opened the door of the drawing room , and stood back for him to pass in , entering herself behind him . 
She asked the man to go through the folding doors into the adjoining room . 
He opened the doors , entered a step or two , and came back almost instantly with a rigid face . 
LVII Meanwhile Angel Clare had walked automatically along the way by which he had come , and , entering his hotel , sat down over the breakfast , staring at nothingness . 
Clare crumpled up the paper , and followed the route to the station reaching it , he found that there would be no train leaving for an hour and more . 
He sat down to wait , and having waited a quarter of an hour felt that he could wait there no longer . 
The highway that he followed was open , and at a little distance dipped into a valley , across which it could be seen running from edge to edge . 
He had traversed the greater part of this depression , and was climbing the western acclivity , when , pausing for breath , he unconsciously looked back . 
Why he did so he could not say , but something seemed to impel him to the act . 
The tape like surface of the road diminished in his rear as far as he could see , and as he gazed a moving spot intruded on the white vacuity of its perspective . 
It was a human figure running . 
Clare waited , with a dim sense that somebody was trying to overtake him . 
It was not till she was quite close that he could believe her to be Tess . 
To avoid meeting any possible wayfarers he left the high road , and took a footpath under some fir trees . 
When they were deep among the moaning boughs he stopped and looked at her inquiringly . 
What ! said he , thinking from the strangeness of her manner that she was in some delirium . 
I have done it I don't know how , she continued . 
Still , I owed it to you , and to myself , Angel . 
He has come between us and ruined us , and now he can never do it any more . 
I never loved him at all , Angel , as I loved you . 
You know it , don't you ? You believe it ? You didn't come back to me , and I was obliged to go back to him . 
Why did you go away why did you when I loved you so ? I can't think why you did it . 
It came to me as a shining light that I should get you back that way . 
But how do you mean you have killed him ? I mean that I have , she murmured in a reverie . 
What , bodily ? Is he dead ? Yes . 
He heard me crying about you , and he bitterly taunted me and called you by a foul name and then I did it . 
My heart could not bear it . 
He had nagged me about you before . 
And then I dressed myself and came away to find you . 
There momentarily flashed through his mind that the family tradition of the coach and murder might have arisen because the d'Urbervilles had been known to do these things . 
It was very terrible if true if a temporary hallucination , sad . 
But , anyhow , here was this deserted wife of his , this passionately fond woman , clinging to him without a suspicion that he would be anything to her but a protector . 
He saw that for him to be otherwise was not , in her mind , within the region of the possible . 
Tenderness was absolutely dominant in Clare at last . 
Worn and unhandsome as he had become , it was plain that she did not discern the least fault in his appearance . 
To her he was , as of old , all that was perfection , personally and mentally . 
Thus they proceeded for several miles till Tess , arousing herself , looked about her , and said , timidly Are we going anywhere in particular ? I don't know , dearest . 
Why ? I don't know . 
Well , we might walk a few miles further , and when it is evening find lodgings somewhere or other in a lonely cottage , perhaps . 
Can you walk well , Tessy ? O yes ! I could walk for ever and ever with your arm round me ! Upon the whole it seemed a good thing to do . 
Thereupon they quickened their pace , avoiding high roads , and following obscure paths tending more or less northward . 
But there was an unpractical vagueness in their movements throughout the day neither one of them seemed to consider any question of effectual escape , disguise , or long concealment . 
Their every idea was temporary and unforefending , like the plans of two children . 
He soon returned , with food enough for half a dozen people and two bottles of wine enough to last them for a day or more , should any emergency arise . 
They sat down upon some dead boughs and shared their meal . 
Between one and two o'clock they packed up the remainder and went on again . 
I feel strong enough to walk any distance , said she . 
Later on , when they have forgotten us , we can make for some port . 
She made no reply to this beyond that of grasping him more tightly , and straight inland they went . 
Though the season was an English May the weather was serenely bright , and during the afternoon it was quite warm . 
Passing through the gate they could see the house , an old brick building of regular design and large accommodation . 
I know it , said Clare . 
You can see that it is shut up , and grass is growing on the drive . 
Some of the windows are open , said Tess . 
Just to air the rooms , I suppose . 
All these rooms empty , and we without a roof to our heads ! You are getting tired , my Tess ! he said . 
And kissing her sad mouth he again led her onwards . 
He was growing weary likewise , for they had wandered a dozen or fifteen miles , and it became necessary to consider what they should do for rest . 
They looked from afar at isolated cottages and little inns , and were inclined to approach one of the latter , when their hearts failed them , and they sheered off . 
At length their gait dragged , and they stood still . 
Could we sleep under the trees ? she asked . 
He thought the season insufficiently advanced . 
I have been thinking of that empty mansion we passed , he said . 
Let us go back towards it again . 
They retraced their steps , but it was half an hour before they stood without the entrance gate as earlier . 
He then requested her to stay where she was , whilst he went to see who was within . 
She sat down among the bushes within the gate , and Clare crept towards the house . 
His absence lasted some considerable time , and when he returned Tess was wildly anxious , not for herself , but for him . 
She would come to shut them at sunset . 
Now , we can get in through one of the lower windows , and rest there , said he . 
Under his escort she went tardily forward to the main front , whose shuttered windows , like sightless eyeballs , excluded the possibility of watchers . 
The door was reached a few steps further , and one of the windows beside it was open . 
Clare clambered in , and pulled Tess in after him . 
Except the hall the rooms were all in darkness , and they ascended the staircase . 
Up here also the shutters were tightly closed , the ventilation being perfunctorily done , for this day at least , by opening the hall window in front and an upper window behind . 
Clare unlatched the door of a large chamber , felt his way across it , and parted the shutters to the width of two or three inches . 
Rest at last ! said he , setting down his bag and the parcel of viands . 
Between six and seven o'clock she came , but did not approach the wing they were in . 
They heard her close the windows , fasten them , lock the door , and go away . 
LVIII The night was strangely solemn and still . 
He had never known of that till now . 
Why didn't you tell me next day ? he said . 
It might have prevented much misunderstanding and woe . 
Don't think of what's past ! said she . 
I am not going to think outside of now . 
Why should we ! Who knows what tomorrow has in store ? But it apparently had no sorrow . 
His re entry awoke her and they breakfasted on what he had brought . 
The changes of the weather were their only events , the birds of the New Forest their only company . 
By tacit consent they hardly once spoke of any incident of the past subsequent to their wedding day . 
The gloomy intervening time seemed to sink into chaos , over which the present and prior times closed as if it never had been . 
Whenever he suggested that they should leave their shelter , and go forwards towards Southampton or London , she showed a strange unwillingness to move . 
Why should we put an end to all that's sweet and lovely ! she deprecated . 
What must come will come . 
And , looking through the shutter chink All is trouble outside there inside here content . 
It was quite true within was affection , union , error forgiven outside was the inexorable . 
And and , she said , pressing her cheek against his , I fear that what you think of me now may not last . 
I do not wish to outlive your present feeling for me . 
I would rather be dead and buried when the time comes for you to despise me , so that it may never be known to me that you despised me . 
I cannot ever despise you . 
But considering what my life had been I cannot see why any man should , sooner or later , be able to help despising me . 
They remained yet another day . 
In the night the dull sky cleared , and the result was that the old caretaker at the cottage awoke early . 
The brilliant sunrise made her unusually brisk she decided to open the contiguous mansion immediately , and to air it thoroughly on such a day . 
At that moment she fancied she could hear the breathing of persons within . 
The lock was out of order , but a piece of furniture had been moved forward on the inside , which prevented her opening the door more than an inch or two . 
She closed the door , and withdrew as softly as she had come , to go and consult with her neighbours on the odd discovery . 
Not more than a minute had elapsed after her withdrawal when Tess woke , and then Clare . 
Both had a sense that something had disturbed them , though they could not say what and the uneasy feeling which it engendered grew stronger . 
As soon as he was dressed he narrowly scanned the lawn through the two or three inches of shutter chink . 
I think we will leave at once , said he . 
It is a fine day . 
And I cannot help fancying somebody is about the house . 
At any rate , the woman will be sure to come today . 
She passively assented , and putting the room in order they took up the few articles that belonged to them , and departed noiselessly . 
When they had got into the Forest she turned to take a last look at the house . 
Ah , happy house goodbye ! she said . 
My life can only be a question of a few weeks . 
Why should we not have stayed there ? Don't say it , Tess ! We shall soon get out of this district altogether . 
We'll continue our course as we've begun it , and keep straight north . 
Nobody will think of looking for us there . 
We shall be looked for at the Wessex ports if we are sought at all . 
When we are in the north we will get to a port and away . 
Having thus persuaded her the plan was pursued , and they kept a bee line northward . 
He decided to rest her in a clump of trees during the afternoon , and push onward under cover of darkness . 
At dusk Clare purchased food as usual , and their night march began , the boundary between Upper and Mid Wessex being crossed about eight o'clock . 
To walk across country without much regard to roads was not new to Tess , and she showed her old agility in the performance . 
The intercepting city , ancient Melchester , they were obliged to pass through in order to take advantage of the town bridge for crossing a large river that obstructed them . 
It was about midnight when they went along the deserted streets , lighted fitfully by the few lamps , keeping off the pavement that it might not echo their footsteps . 
The graceful pile of cathedral architecture rose dimly on their left hand , but it was lost upon them now . 
Once out of the town they followed the turnpike road , which after a few miles plunged across an open plain . 
Though the sky was dense with cloud a diffused light from some fragment of a moon had hitherto helped them a little . 
But the moon had now sunk , the clouds seemed to settle almost on their heads , and the night grew as dark as a cave . 
All around was open loneliness and black solitude , over which a stiff breeze blew . 
They had proceeded thus gropingly two or three miles further when on a sudden Clare became conscious of some vast erection close in his front , rising sheer from the grass . 
They had almost struck themselves against it . 
What monstrous place is this ? said Angel . 
It hums , said she . 
The wind , playing upon the edifice , produced a booming tune , like the note of some gigantic one stringed harp . 
No other sound came from it , and lifting his hand and advancing a step or two , Clare felt the vertical surface of the structure . 
It seemed to be of solid stone , without joint or moulding . 
Carrying his fingers onward he found that what he had come in contact with was a colossal rectangular pillar by stretching out his left hand he could feel a similar one adjoining . 
At an indefinite height overhead something made the black sky blacker , which had the semblance of a vast architrave uniting the pillars horizontally . 
They carefully entered beneath and between the surfaces echoed their soft rustle but they seemed to be still out of doors . 
The place was all doors and pillars , some connected above by continuous architraves . 
A very Temple of the Winds , he said . 
The couple advanced further into this pavilion of the night till they stood in its midst . 
It is Stonehenge ! said Clare . 
The heathen temple , you mean ? Yes . 
Older than the centuries older than the d'Urbervilles ! Well , what shall we do , darling ? We may find shelter further on . 
But Tess , really tired by this time , flung herself upon an oblong slab that lay close at hand , and was sheltered from the wind by a pillar . 
I don't want to go any further , Angel , she said , stretching out her hand for his . 
Can't we bide here ? I fear not . 
This spot is visible for miles by day , although it does not seem so now . 
One of my mother's people was a shepherd hereabouts , now I think of it . 
And you used to say at Talbothays that I was a heathen . 
So now I am at home . 
He knelt down beside her outstretched form , and put his lips upon hers . 
Sleepy are you , dear ? I think you are lying on an altar . 
I like very much to be here , she murmured . 
It is so solemn and lonely after my great happiness with nothing but the sky above my face . 
it seems as if there were no folk in the world but we two and I wish there were not except 'Liza Lu . 
Clare though she might as well rest here till it should get a little lighter , and he flung his overcoat upon her , and sat down by her side . 
She is so good and simple and pure . 
O , Angel I wish you would marry her if you lose me , as you will do shortly . 
O , if you would ! If I lose you I lose all ! And she is my sister in law . 
People marry sister laws continually about Marlott and 'Liza Lu is so gentle and sweet , and she is growing so beautiful . 
She had all the best of me without the bad of me and if she were to become yours it would almost seem as if death had not divided us . 
Well , I have said it . 
I won't mention it again . 
She ceased , and he fell into thought . 
In the far north east sky he could see between the pillars a level streak of light . 
Did they sacrifice to God here ? asked she . 
Who to ? I believe to the sun . 
That lofty stone set away by itself is in the direction of the sun , which will presently rise behind it . 
This reminds me , dear , she said . 
Tell me now , Angel , do you think we shall meet again after we are dead ? I want to know . 
He kissed her to avoid a reply at such a time . 
O , Angel I fear that means no ! said she , with a suppressed sob . 
In a minute or two her breathing became more regular , her clasp of his hand relaxed , and she fell asleep . 
The eastward pillars and their architraves stood up blackly against the light , and the great flame shaped Sun stone beyond them and the Stone of Sacrifice midway . 
Presently the night wind died out , and the quivering little pools in the cup like hollows of the stones lay still . 
At the same time something seemed to move on the verge of the dip eastward a mere dot . 
It was the head of a man approaching them from the hollow beyond the Sun stone . 
Clare wished they had gone onward , but in the circumstances decided to remain quiet . 
The figure came straight towards the circle of pillars in which they were . 
He heard something behind him , the brush of feet . 
Turning , he saw over the prostrate columns another figure then before he was aware , another was at hand on the right , under a trilithon , and another on the left . 
The dawn shone full on the front of the man westward , and Clare could discern from this that he was tall , and walked as if trained . 
They all closed in with evident purpose . 
Her story then was true ! Springing to his feet , he looked around for a weapon , loose stone , means of escape , anything . 
By this time the nearest man was upon him . 
It is no use , sir , he said . 
There are sixteen of us on the Plain , and the whole country is reared . 
Let her finish her sleep ! he implored in a whisper of the men as they gathered round . 
When they saw where she lay , which they had not done till then , they showed no objection , and stood watching her , as still as the pillars around . 
He went to the stone and bent over her , holding one poor little hand her breathing now was quick and small , like that of a lesser creature than a woman . 
Soon the light was strong , and a ray shone upon her unconscious form , peering under her eyelids and waking her . 
What is it , Angel ? she said , starting up . 
Have they come for me ? Yes , dearest , he said . 
It is as it should be , she murmured . 
Angel , I am almost glad yes , glad ! This happiness could not have lasted . 
I have had enough and now I shall not live for you to despise me ! She stood up , shook herself , and went forward , neither of the men having moved . 
I am ready , she said quietly . 
LIX The city of Wintoncester , that fine old city , aforetime capital of Wessex , lay amidst its convex and concave downlands in all the brightness and warmth of a July morning . 
From the western gate aforesaid the highway , as every Wintoncestrian knows , ascends a long and regular incline of the exact length of a measured mile , leaving the houses gradually behind . 
Up this road from the precincts of the city two persons were walking rapidly , as if unconscious of the trying ascent unconscious through preoccupation and not through buoyancy . 
They had emerged upon this road through a narrow barred wicket in a high wall a little lower down . 
They seemed anxious to get out of the sight of the houses and of their kind , and this road appeared to offer the quickest means of doing so . 
Though they were young they walked with bowed heads , which gait of grief the sun's rays smiled on pitilessly . 
Their pale faces seemed to have shrunk to half their natural size . 
They moved on hand in hand , and never spoke a word , the drooping of their heads being that of Giotto's Two Apostles . 
When they had nearly reached the top of the great West Hill the clocks in the town struck eight . 
They entered upon the turf , and , impelled by a force that seemed to overrule their will , suddenly stood still , turned , and waited in paralyzed suspense beside the stone . 
The prospect from this summit was almost unlimited . 
Behind the city swept the rotund upland of St Catherine's Hill further off , landscape beyond landscape , till the horizon was lost in the radiance of the sun hanging above it . 
It was somewhat disguised from the road in passing it by yews and evergreen oaks , but it was visible enough up here . 
The wicket from which the pair had lately emerged was in the wall of this structure . 
Yet it was with this blot , and not with the beauty , that the two gazers were concerned . 
Upon the cornice of the tower a tall staff was fixed . 
Their eyes were riveted on it . 
A few minutes after the hour had struck something moved slowly up the staff , and extended itself upon the breeze . 
It was a black flag . 
Justice was done , and the President of the Immortals , in Aeschylean phrase , had ended his sport with Tess . 
And the d'Urberville knights and dames slept on in their tombs unknowing . 
The two speechless gazers bent themselves down to the earth , as if in prayer , and remained thus a long time , absolutely motionless the flag continued to wave silently . 
As soon as they had strength they arose , joined hands again , and went on . 
