Captain Whalley did not look at it . 
He had not uttered a single word , not even the word to steady the helm . 
It was the Serang , an elderly , alert , little Malay , with a very dark skin , who murmured the order to the helmsman . 
And then slowly Captain Whalley sat down again in the arm chair on the bridge and fixed his eyes on the deck between his feet . 
He could not hope to see anything new upon this lane of the sea . 
He had been on these coasts for the last three years . 
From Low Cape to Malantan the distance was fifty miles , six hours' steaming for the old ship with the tide , or seven against . 
She could always be depended upon to make her courses . 
Her compasses were never out . 
She was no trouble at all to take about , as if her great age had given her knowledge , wisdom , and steadiness . 
She made her landfalls to a degree of the bearing , and al most to a minute of her allowed time . 
He knew it well too , this monotonous huckster's round , up and down the Straits he knew its order and its sights and its people . 
Malacca to begin with , in at daylight and out at dusk , to cross over with a rigid phosphorescent wake this highway of the Far East . 
At noon the three palms of the next place of call , up a sluggish river . 
The only white man re siding there was a retired young sailor , with whom he had become friendly in the course of many voyages . 
Sixty miles farther on there was another place of call , a deep bay with only a couple of houses on the beach . 
Not a very enterprising life , this , for Captain Whalley , Henry Whalley , otherwise Dare devil Harry Whalley of the Condor , a famous clipper in her day . 
His fame remained writ , not very large but plain enough , on the Admiralty charts . 
At that time neither the island nor the reef had any official existence . 
Besides , as anyone who cares may see , the General Directory , vol . 
, begins the descrip tion of the Malotu or Whalley Passage with the words This advantageous route , first discovered in by Captain Whalley in the ship Condor , c . 
, and ends by recommending it warmly to sailing vessels leaving the China ports for the south in the months from December to April inclusive . 
This was the clearest gain he had out of life . 
Nothing could rob him of this kind of fame . 
It had changed the face of the East ern seas and the very spirit of their life so that his early experiences meant nothing whatever to the new generation of seamen . 
He had never lost a ship or consented to a shady transaction and he had lasted well , outlasting in the end the conditions that had gone to the making of his name . 
And he was sixty five years old . 
II His age sat lightly enough on him and of his ruin he was not ashamed . 
He had not been alone to believe in the stability of the Banking Corporation . 
Men whose judgment in matters of finance was as expert as his sea manship had commended the prudence of his invest ments , and had themselves lost much money in the great failure . 
The only difference between him and them was that he had lost his all . 
And yet not his all . 
He had formally declared himself tired of the sea the year preceding his daughter's marriage . 
But after the young couple had gone to settle in Melbourne he found out that he could not make himself happy on shore . 
He was too much of a merchant sea captain for mere yacht ing to satisfy him . 
He wanted the illusion of affairs and his acquisition of the Fair Maid preserved the con tinuity of his life . 
He introduced her to his acquaint ances in various ports as my last command . 
His daughter would not grudge him the satisfaction of knowing that no stranger would handle his last command after him . 
With the fortune he was able to leave her , the value of a ton bark was neither here nor there . 
He had the cabin arranged in accordance with his simple ideal of comfort at sea . 
Three chronometers ticked him to sleep and greeted him on waking with the tiny competition of their beats . 
He rose at five every day . 
These noises would be followed by a sustained deep murmur of the Lord's Prayer recited in a loud earnest voice . 
Five minutes afterwards the head and shoulders of Captain Whalley emerged out of the companion hatchway . 
Invariably he paused for a while on the stairs , looking all round at the horizon upwards at the trim of the sails inhaling deep draughts of the fresh air . 
Only then he would step out on the poop , acknowl edging the hand raised to the peak of the cap with a majestic and benign Good morning to you . 
He walked the deck till eight scrupulously . 
Sometimes , not above twice a year , he had to use a thick cudgel like stick on account of a stiffness in the hip a slight touch of rheumatism , he supposed . 
Otherwise he knew nothing of the ills of the flesh . 
At the ringing of the breakfast bell he went below to feed his canaries , wind up the chronometers , and take the head of the table . 
Then with the door of his state room shut , he would sit down on the couch under the portrait to read a chapter out of a thick pocket Bible her Bible . 
But on some days he only sat there for half an hour with his finger between the leaves and the closed book resting on his knees . 
Perhaps he had re membered suddenly how fond of boat sailing she used to be . 
She had been a real shipmate and a true woman too . 
She had decorated the center of every panel with a cluster of home flowers . 
It took her a twelvemonth to go round the cuddy with this labor of love . 
made him somewhat less hearty than usual in tackling his food . 
But there was nothing of the sort to interfere with his enjoyment of her singing . 
Mrs. Whalley is a regular out and out nightingale , sir , he would pronounce with a judicial air after listen ing profoundly over the skylight to the very end of the piece . 
In fine weather , in the second dog watch , the two men could hear her trills and roulades going on to the accompaniment of the piano in the cabin . 
But Captain Whal ley could in a half hour of solitude live again all his life , with its romance , its idyl , and its sorrow . 
He had to close her eyes himself . 
She went away from under the ensign like a sailor's wife , a sailor herself at heart . 
He had read the service over her , out of her own prayer book , without a break in his voice . 
It was all very well for that old sea dog to cry . 
He had to read on to the end but after the splash he did not remember much of what happened for the next few days . 
An elderly sailor of the crew , deft at needlework , put to gether a mourning frock for the child out of one of her black skirts . 
He was not likely to forget but you cannot dam up life like a sluggish stream . 
And the world is not bad . 
People had been very kind to him especially Mrs. Gardner , the wife of the senior partner in Gardner , Patteson , Co . 
, the owners of the Condor . 
with her own girls to finish her education . 
It was ten years before he saw her again . 
The swirl and crash of the waves seemed to fill her small soul with a breathless de light . 
A good boy spoiled , he used to say of her in joke . 
He had named her Ivy because of the sound of the word , and obscurely fascinated by a vague associa tion of ideas . 
But he loved life well enough for even that event to give him a certain satisfaction , apart from his more intimate feeling of loss . 
He disliked his son in law's studied civility perhaps more than his method of handling the sum of money he had given Ivy at her marriage . 
But of his apprehensions he said nothing . 
Mind you write to me openly . 
She had answered him by an almost imperceptible movement of her head . 
She resembled her mother in the color of her eyes , and in character and also in this , that she under stood him without many words . 
Sure enough she had to write and some of these letters made Captain Whalley lift his white eye brows . 
For the rest he considered he was reaping the true reward of his life by being thus able to produce on demand what ever was needed . 
He had not enjoyed himself so much in a way since his wife had died . 
Characteristically enough his son in law's punctuality in failure caused him at a distance to feel a sort of kindness towards the man . 
The fellow was so perpetually being jammed on a lee shore that to charge it all to his reckless navigation would be manifestly unfair . 
No , no ! He knew well what that meant . 
He will never walk again , wrote the wife . 
For the first time in his life Captain Whalley was a bit staggered . 
The Fair Maid had to go to work in bitter earnest now . 
He would have to buckle to , and keep her going hard on a scant allowance of gilt for the ginger bread scrolls at her stem and stern . 
This necessity opened his eyes to the fundamental changes of the world . 
Of his past only the familiar names remained , here and there , but the things and the men , as he had known them , were gone . 
The name of Gardner , Patteson , Co . 
Their ships now had yellow funnels with black tops , and a time table of appointed routes like a confounded service of tramways . 
And everywhere it was the same . 
Departed the men who would have nodded appreciatively at the mention of his name , and would have thought themselves bound in honor to do something for Dare devil Harry Whalley . 
He found it more difficult from year to year . 
He suf fered greatly from the smallness of remittances he was able to send his daughter . 
Meantime he had given up good cigars , and even in the matter of inferior cheroots limited himself to six a day . 
He never told her of his difficulties , and she never enlarged upon her struggle to live . 
Their confidence in each other needed no ex planations , and their perfect understanding endured without protestations of gratitude or regret . 
He had come in with the Fair Maid in ballast to look for a freight in the Sofala's port of registry , and her letter met him there . 
Its tenor was that it was no use mincing matters . 
Her only resource was in opening a boarding house , for which the prospects , she judged , were good . 
Good enough , at any rate , to make her tell him frankly that with two hundred pounds she could make a start . 
For the second time in his life he was appalled , and remained stock still at the cabin door with the paper trembling between his fingers . 
Open a boarding house ! Two hundred pounds for a start ! The only resource ! And he did not know where to lay his hands on two hundred pence . 
Captain Whalley saw not a gleam anywhere till the dawn broke and he found out that his clothing was soaked through with the heavy dew . 
He stopped short , stroked his wet beard , and descended the poop ladder backwards , with tired feet . 
At the sight of him the chief officer , lounging about sleepily on the quarterdeck , remained open mouthed in the middle of a great early morning yawn . 
Good morning to you , pronounced Captain Whal ley solemnly , passing into the cabin . 
But he checked himself in the doorway , and without looking back , By the bye , he said , there should be an empty wooden case put away in the lazarette . 
Let it be taken up on deck and tell the carpenter to look it over . 
I may want to use it before long . 
The chief officer did not stir a limb till he had heard the door of the captain's state room slam within the cuddy . 
Then he beckoned aft the second mate with his forefinger to tell him that there was something in the wind . 
When the bell rang Captain Whalley's authoritative voice boomed out through a closed door , Sit down and don't wait for me . 
And his impressed officers took their places , exchanging looks and whispers across the table . 
What ! No breakfast ? And after apparently knock ing about all night on deck , too ! Clearly , there was something in the wind . 
He could not have swallowed a single mouthful of food that morning . 
He had made up his mind to sell the Fair Maid . 
This was the receipt of a registered letter en closing a draft for two hundred pounds , and addressed to Melbourne . 
Captain Whalley pushed the paper into his waistcoat pocket , took his stick from under his arm , and walked down the street . 
It was a recently opened and untidy thoroughfare with rudimentary side walks and a soft layer of dust cushion ing the whole width of the road . 
Cap tain Whalley was not dwarfed by the solitude of the grandly planned street . 
He had too fine a presence for that . 
He was only a lonely figure walking purposefully , with a great white beard like a pilgrim , and with a thick stick that resembled a weapon . 
On one side the new Courts of Justice had a low and unadorned portico of squat columns half concealed by a few old trees left in the approach . 
On the other the pavilion wings of the new Colonial Treasury came out to the line of the street . 
And his poor Ivy away there had no home either . 
A boarding house is no sort of home though it may get you a living . 
His feelings were horribly rasped by the idea of the boarding house . 
In his rank of life he had that truly aristocratic tempera ment characterized by a scorn of vulgar gentility and by prejudiced views as to the derogatory nature of cer tain occupations . 
to buying and selling merchandise , of which the essence is to get the better of somebody in a bargain an undignified trial of wits at best . 
of the H. E. I. Com pany's service , with very slender means besides his pen sion , but with distinguished connections . 
Captain Whalley emerged like a diver on the other side , and in the desert shade between the walls of closed warehouses removed his hat to cool his brow . 
A certain disrepute attached to the calling of a landlady of a boarding house . 
He had not expostulated with her , however . 
Vaguely he remembered reading years ago a touching piece called the Song of the Shirt . 
It was all very well making songs about poor women . 
Of one thing he was certain that she was the own child of a clever mother . 
Now he had got over the wrench of parting with his ship , he perceived clearly that such a step had been unavoidable . 
Perhaps he had been growing aware of it all along with an unconfessed knowledge . 
It would have had to come to that in the end ! It was fortunate she had forced his hand . 
In another year or two it would have been an utterly barren sale . 
To keep the ship going he had been involving himself deeper every year . 
Scantily furnished , and with a waxed floor , it opened into one of the side verandas . 
In the solitude of his room he smoked thoughtfully , gazing at the two sea chests which held all that he could call his own in this world . 
He was tired of discussing terms , of assisting at surveys , of all the routine of the business . 
What to the other parties was merely the sale of a ship was to him a momentous event involving a radically new view of existence . 
He had been at liberty to feel as though he were the owner of all the ships in the world . 
Striding firmly , without haste , along the quay , Captain Whalley averted his glances from the familiar roadstead . 
Two generations of seamen born since his first day at sea stood between him and all these ships at the anchor age . 
Here are the last pence , he would say to her take them , my dear . 
And here's your old father you must take him too . 
His soul recoiled , as if afraid of what lay hidden at the bottom of this impulse . 
Give up ! Never ! When one is thoroughly weary all sorts of nonsense come into one's head . 
Was he not as fit to die in harness as any of the youngsters in charge of these anchored ships out yonder ? He was as solid now as ever he had been . 
But as to who would give him work to do , that was another matter . 
He was not anxious to give himself away for less than nothing . 
He had no use for anybody's pity . 
Commands don't go a begging nowadays . 
Ever since he had come ashore to carry out the business of the sale he had kept his ears open , but had heard no hint of one being vacant in the port . 
And even if there had been one , his suc cessful past itself stood in his way . 
He had been his own employer too long . 
The only credential he could produce was the testimony of his whole life . 
No single betraying fold or line of care disfigured the reposeful modeling of his face . 
He strode on squarely under the projecting brim of an ancient Panama hat . 
It had a low crown , a crease through its whole diameter , a narrow black ribbon . 
Imperishable and a little discolored , this headgear made it easy to pick him out from afar on thronged wharves and in the busy streets . 
He had never adopted the comparatively modern fashion of pipeclayed cork helmets . 
He disliked the form and he hoped he could manage to keep a cool head to the end of his life without all these contrivances for hygienic ventilation . 
The irrational dread of having to break into his five hundred pounds for personal expenses in the hotel dis turbed the steady poise of his mind . 
There was no time to lose . 
The bill was running up . 
, would enable him to be of use to his daughter . 
To his mind it was her own money which he employed , as it were , in backing her father and solely for her benefit . 
That was the great point . 
Some of these avenues ended at the sea . 
Captain Whalley gave them a long glance . 
The ship , once his own , was anchored out there . 
It was staggering to think that it was open to him no longer to take a boat at the jetty and get himself pulled off to her when the evening came . 
Before the sale was concluded , and till the purchase money had been paid , he had spent daily some time on board the Fair Maid . 
It seemed an incredible state of affairs , something too bizarre to last . 
And the sea was full of craft of all sorts . 
There was that prau lying so still swathed in her shroud of sewn palm leaves she too had her indispensable man . 
They lived through each other , this Malay he had never seen , and this high sterned thing of no size that seemed to be resting after a long journey . 
After his one glance at the roadstead he went on , since there was nothing to turn back for , and the time must be got through somehow . 
The avenues of big trees ran straight over the Esplanade , cutting each other at di verse angles , columnar below and luxuriant above . 
The flaming sky kindled a tiny crimson spark upon the glistening sur face of each glassy shell . 
A succession of open carriages came bowling along the newly opened sea road . 
You could see across the wide grass plots the discs of vibration made by the spokes . 
The wheels turned solemnly one after another the sunshades drooped , folding their colors like gorgeous flowers shutting their petals at the end of the day . 
But one carriage and pair coming late did not join the line . 
It was a long dark green landau , having a digni fied and buoyant motion between the sharply curved C springs , and a sort of strictly official majesty in its supreme elegance . 
It seemed more roomy than is usual , its horses seemed slightly bigger , the appointments a shade more perfect , the servants perched somewhat higher on the box . 
The dresses of three women two young and pretty , and one , handsome , large , of mature age seemed to fill completely the shallow body of the carriage . 
His Excellency The rapid motion of that one equipage made all the others appear utterly inferior , blighted , and reduced to crawl painfully at a snail's pace . 
Captain Whalley had lifted his head to look , and his mind , disturbed in its meditation , turned with wonder to matters of no importance . 
The then governor had given him no end of encouragement . 
The Dido was one of the smart frigates on the China station and five and thirty years make a big slice of time . 
Five and thirty years ago an enterprise like his had for the colony enough importance to be looked after by a Queen's ship . 
A big slice of time . 
Individuals were of some account then . 
Mr. Denham had encouraged that enterprise too , and yet somehow poor Evans had ended by dying at home deucedly hard up . 
There had been a time when men counted there were not so many carriages in the colony then , though Mr. Denham , he fancied , had a buggy . 
And Captain Whal ley seemed to be swept out of the great avenue by the swirl of a mental backwash . 
This was the Master Attendant of the port . 
This particular Master Attendant was reported to con sider it miserably inadequate , on the ground that it did not include the power of life and death . 
This was a jocular exaggeration . 
Captain Eliott was fairly satis fied with his position , and nursed no inconsiderable sense of such power as he had . 
His conceited and tyrannical disposition did not allow him to let it dwindle in his hands for want of use . 
But for almost all of them one of Captain Eliott's outbreaks was nearly as distaste ful to face as a chance of annihilation . 
He had got out of his trap to stretch his legs , he explained , on his way home to dinner . 
Sir Frederick looked well at the end of his time . 
Didn't he ? Captain Whalley could not say had only noticed the carriage going past . 
They had been good com rades years ago , almost intimates . 
But Captain Whalley , then in the prime of life , was resolved to serve no one but his own auspicious Fortune . 
Far away , tending his hot irons , he was glad to hear the other had been successful . 
There was a worldly suppleness in bluff Ned Eliott that would serve him well in that sort of official appointment . 
The glass of the rosace above the ogive glowed like fiery coal in the deep carvings of a wheel of stone . 
The two men faced about . 
I'll tell you what they ought to do next , Whalley , growled Captain Eliott suddenly . 
Well ? They ought to send a real live lord out here when Sir Frederick's time is up . 
Eh ? Captain Whalley perfunctorily did not see why a lord of the right sort should not do as well as anyone else . 
But this was not the other's point of view . 
Nothing can stop it now . 
Good enough for a lord , he growled in short sentences . 
Look at the changes in our time . 
We need a lord here now . 
They have got a lord in Bombay . 
He dined once or twice every year at the Government House a many windowed , arcaded palace upon a hill laid out in roads and gardens . 
And lately he had been taking about a duke in his Master Attendant's steam launch to visit the harbor improvements . 
Before that he had most obligingly gone out in person to pick out a good berth for the ducal yacht . 
Afterwards he had an invitation to lunch on board . 
The duchess her self lunched with them . 
A big woman with a red face . 
They were going on to Japan . 
Twice as many men as there are berths going in the local trade . 
All hungry for an easy job . 
Twice as many and What d'you think , Whalley ? . 
He stopped short his hands clenched and thrust deeply downwards , seemed ready to burst the pockets of his jacket . 
A slight sigh escaped Captain Whalley . 
Hey ? You would think they would be falling over each other . 
Not a bit of it . 
Nice and warm out here to lie about a veranda waiting for a job . 
I sit and wait in my office . 
What did they suppose ? That I was going to sit there like a dummy with the Consul General's cable before me ? Not likely . 
So I looked up a list of them I keep by me and sent word for Hamilton the worst loafer of them all and just made him go . 
Threatened to in struct the steward of the Sailors' Home to have him turned out neck and crop . 
He did not think the berth was good enough if you please . 
'I've your little records by me , said I. 'You came ashore here eighteen months ago , and you haven't done six months' work since . 
You are in debt for your board now at the Home , and I suppose you reckon the Marine Office will pay in the end . 
Eh ? So it shall but if you don't take this chance , away you go to England , assisted passage , by the first homeward steamer that comes along . 
You are no better than a pauper . 
We don't want any white paupers here . 
But look at the trouble all this gave me . 
You would not have had any trouble , Captain Whal ley said almost involuntarily , if you had sent for me . 
Captain Eliott was immensely amused he shook with laughter as he walked . 
But suddenly he stopped laugh ing . 
A vague recollection had crossed his mind . 
Hadn't he heard it said at the time of the Travancore and Deccan smash that poor Whalley had been cleaned out com pletely . 
Fellow's hard up , by heavens ! he thought and at once he cast a sidelong upward glance at his companion . 
But Captain Whalley was smiling austerely straight before him , with a carriage of the head incon ceivable in a penniless man and he became reassured . 
Could not have lost everything . 
That ship had been only a hobby of his . 
The best thing for some of us would be to die at the oar , Captain Whalley said negligently . 
Aren't you a bit tired by this time of the whole show ? muttered the other sullenly . 
Are you ? Captain Eliott was . 
He only hung on to his berth so long in order to get his pension on the highest scale before he went home . 
It would be no better than poverty , anyhow still , it was the only thing be tween him and the workhouse . 
And he had a family . 
Three girls , as Whalley knew . 
He gave Harry , old boy , to understand that these three girls were a source of the greatest anxiety and worry to him . 
Enough to drive a man distracted . 
Why ? What have they been doing now ? asked Captain Whalley with a sort of amused absent minded ness . 
Lawn tennis and silly novels from morning to night . 
If one of them at least had been a boy . 
But all three ! And , as ill luck would have it , there did not seem to be any decent young fellows left in the world . 
When he looked around in the club he saw only a lot of conceited popinjays too selfish to think of making a good woman happy . 
Extreme indigence stared him in the face with all that crowd to keep at home . 
He had cherished the idea of building himself a little house in the country in Surrey to end his days in , but he was afraid it was out of the question , . 
and his staring eyes rolled upwards with such a pathetic anxiety that Captain Whal ley charitably nodded down at him , restraining a sort of sickening desire to laugh . 
You must know what it is yourself , Harry . 
Girls are the very devil for worry and anxiety . 
Ay ! But mine is doing well , Captain Whalley pro nounced slowly , staring to the end of the avenue . 
The Master Attendant was glad to hear this . 
A pretty girl she was . 
Captain Whalley , stepping out carelessly , assented as if in a dream . 
The procession of carriages was breaking up . 
He proceeded to give instances of what was expected of him and his thick voice drowsed in the still air like the obstinate droning of an enormous bumble bee . 
Cap tain Whalley did not know what was the force or the weakness that prevented him from saying good night and walking away . 
It was as though he had been too tired to make the effort . 
More queer than any of Ned's instances . 
Or was it that overpowering sense of idleness alone that made him stand there and listen to these stories . 
Not a bad fellow the pleasant , jolly Ned Eliott , friendly , well up to his business and always a bit of a humbug . 
He remembered how he used to amuse his poor wife . 
She could read him like an open book . 
When the Condor and the Ringdove happened to be in port together , she would frequently ask him to bring Captain Eliott to dinner . 
They had not met often since those old days . 
Not once in five years , perhaps . 
He was in a bit of a quandary now as to the steamer Sofala . 
Ultimately every hitch in the port came into his hands to undo . 
That steamer was a coasting craft having a steady trade connection as far north as Tenasserim but the trouble was she could get no captain to take her on her regular trip . 
Nobody would go in her . 
He really had no power , of course , to order a man to take a job . 
It was all very well to stretch a point on the demand of a consul general , but . 
What's the matter with the ship ? Captain Whalley interrupted in measured tones . 
Her owner has been in my office this afternoon tearing his hair . 
Is he a white man ? asked Whalley in an interested voice . 
He calls himself a white man , answered the Master Attendant scornfully but if so , it's just skin deep and no more . 
I told him that to his face too . 
But who is he , then ? He's the chief engineer of her . 
See THAT , Harry ? I see , Captain Whalley said thoughtfully . 
How the fellow came to be a shipowner at the same time was quite a tale . 
Anyway , they seemed jolly glad to get rid of him at all costs . 
Clearly a mu tinous sort of chap . 
The Master Attendant's voice vibrated dully with hoarse emphasis . 
The man actually had the luck to win the second prize in the Manilla lot tery . 
All these engineers and officers of ships took tickets in that gamble . 
It seemed to be a perfect mania with them all . 
Everybody expected now that he would take himself off home with his money , and go to the devil in his own way . 
He rushed in and bought her . 
There was no one over him on earth , and there never would be either . 
Good bargain as she was , the price of the Sofala took up pretty near all the lottery money . 
He had left him self no capital to work with . 
They prowled on the cheap to and fro along the coast and between the islands , like a lot of sharks in the water ready to snap up anything you let drop . 
And then the high old times were over for good for years the Sofala had made no more , he judged , than a fair living . 
The man was too impracticable . 
Too much of a beggar on horseback from the first , he ex plained . 
Seemed to grow worse as the time went on . 
In the last three years he's run through eleven skippers he had tried every single man here , outside of the regu lar lines . 
I had warned him before that this would not do . 
And now , of course , no one will look at the Sofala . 
And now it had come . 
All the horrid sailors in the port had conspired to bring him to his knees , because he was an engineer . 
Captain Eliott emitted a throaty chuckle . 
And the fact is , that if he misses a couple more trips he need never trouble himself to start again . 
He won't find any cargo in his old trade . 
There's too much com petition nowadays for people to keep their stuff lying about for a ship that does not turn up when she's ex pected . 
It's a bad lookout for him . 
He swears he will shut himself on board and starve to death in his cabin rather than sell her even if he could find a buyer . 
And that's not likely in the least . 
Not even the Japs would give her insured value for her . 
It isn't like selling sailing ships . 
Steamers DO get out of date , besides get ting old . 
He must have laid by a good bit of money though , observed Captain Whalley quietly . 
The Harbor master puffed out his purple cheeks to an amazing size . 
Not a stiver , Harry . 
Not a single sti ver . 
He frowned a little , nodding in tiny affirmative jerks . 
He had taken dozens and scores of tickets for every drawing since . 
What with this vice and his ig norance of affairs , ever since he had improvidently bought that steamer he had been more or less short of money . 
This , in Captain Eliott's opinion , gave an opening for a sensible sailor man with a few pounds to step in and save that fool from the consequences of his folly . 
It was his craze to quarrel with his captains . 
He had had some really good men too , who would have been too glad to stay if he would only let them . 
He seemed to think he was no owner unless he was kicking somebody out in the morning and having a row with the new man in the evening . 
What was wanted for him was a master with a couple of hundred or so to take an interest in the ship on proper conditions . 
On the other hand , a fellow with an interest in the ship is not likely to throw up his job in a huff about a trifle . 
He had told Massy that . 
He had said 'This won't do , Mr. Massy . 
We are getting very sick of you here in the Marine Office . 
What you must do now is to try whether you could get a sailor to join you as partner . 
That seems to be the only way . 
And that was sound advice , Harry . 
Captain Whalley , leaning on his stick , was perfectly still all over , and his hand , arrested in the act of strok ing , grasped his whole beard . 
And what did the fellow say to that ? The fellow had the audacity to fly out at the Master Attendant . 
He had received the advice in a most im pudent manner . 
I didn't come here to be laughed at , he had shrieked . 
The fellow had presumed to stamp with rage on the floor of the private office . 
The very native curs in the bazaar knew that much . 
And it's true enough , Harry , rum bled Captain Eliott judicially . 
They are much more likely one and all to owe money to the Chinamen in Denham Road for the clothes on their backs . 
'Well , said I , 'you make too much noise over it for my taste , Mr. Massy . 
He clambered ponderously into the trap leaned out sideways , and only then wondered wheezily what on earth Captain Whalley could have been doing with himself of late . 
They had had no sight of each other for years and years till the other day when he had seen him unexpectedly in the office . 
Captain Whalley seemed to be smiling to himself in his white beard . 
The earth is big , he said vaguely . 
The other , as if to test the statement , stared all round from his driving seat . 
Doesn't seem to be so much room on it , growled the Master Attendant , since these Germans came along shouldering us at every turn . 
It was not so in our time . 
He fell into deep thought , breathing stertorously , as though he had been taking a nap open eyed . 
Good fellow Harry Whalley never very talkative . 
You never knew what he was up to a bit too off hand with people of consequence , and apt to take a wrong view of a fel low's actions . 
Fact was he had a too good opinion of himself . 
He would have liked to tell him to get in and drive him home to dinner . 
Wife would not like it . 
He gathered the reins at once and burst out in bluff , hearty growls Ha ! My dear boy . 
The men we have known the ships we've sailed ay ! and the things we've done . 
The pony plunged the syce skipped out of the way . 
Captain Whalley raised his arm . 
VI The sun had set . 
And when , after drilling a deep hole with his stick , he moved from that spot the night had massed its army of shadows under the trees . 
The Malay prau , half concealed under the arch of the bridge , had not altered its position a quarter of an inch . 
For a long time Cap tain Whalley stared down over the parapet , till at last the floating immobility of that beshrouded thing seemed to grow upon him into something inexplicable and alarming . 
The twilight abandoned the zenith its re flected gleams left the world below , and the water of the canal seemed to turn into pitch . 
The turning to the right , which was his way to his hotel , was only a very few steps farther . 
and began to reckon the amount of his bill . 
So many days in the hotel at so many dollars a day . 
To count the days he used his fingers plunging one hand into his pocket , he jingled a few silver coins . 
All right for three days more and then , unless something turned up , he must break into the five hundred Ivy's money invested in her father . 
It seemed to him that the first meal coming out of that reserve would choke him for certain . 
Reason was of no use . 
It was a matter of feeling . 
His feelings had never played him false . 
He did not turn to the right . 
He walked on , as if there still had been a ship in the roadstead to which he could get himself pulled off in the evening . 
A Chinaman , curled down in the stern of one of the half dozen sampans floating off the end of the jetty , caught sight of a beckoning hand . 
Sofala , Captain Whalley repeated and suddenly his heart failed him . 
Captain Whalley be gan again . 
Savee So fa la , John ? This time the Chinaman made out that bizarre sound , and grunted his assent uncouthly , low down in his bare throat . 
At the moment of stepping into the sam pan to go and try for the command of the Sofala Cap tain Whalley shivered a little . 
He put his hands behind his back . 
He would now consider calmly the discretion of it before saying the final word to morrow . 
His feet scrunched the gravel loudly the discretion of it . 
It would have been easier to appraise had there been a workable alternative . 
Was there a choice ? He seemed already to have lost something of himself to have given up to a hungry specter something of his truth and dig nity in order to live . 
But his life was necessary . 
Let poverty do its worst in exacting its toll of humiliation . 
It was certain that Ned Eliott had rendered him , with out knowing it , a service for which it would have been impossible to ask . 
He hoped Ned would not think there had been something underhand in his action . 
He sup posed that now when he heard of it he would understand or perhaps he would only think Whalley an eccentric old fool . 
What would have been the good of telling him any more than of blurting the whole tale to that man Massy ? Five hundred pounds ready to invest . 
Let him make the best of that . 
You want a captain I want a ship . 
B r r r r . 
What a disagreeable impression that empty , dark , echoing steamer had made upon him . 
He pushed it aside with dislike and contempt . 
He almost laughed at it and in the un quenchable vitality of his age only thought with a kind of exultation how little he needed to keep body and soul together . 
Not a bad investment for the poor woman this solid carcass of her father . 
And for the rest in case of anything the agreement should be clear the whole five hundred to be paid back to her integrally within three months . 
He was not to lose any of her money whatever else had to go a little dignity some of his self respect . 
He had never before allowed anybody to remain under any sort of false impression as to himself . 
Well , let that go for her sake . 
After all , he had never SAID any thing misleading and Captain Whalley felt himself corrupt to the marrow of his bones . 
He laughed a little with the intimate scorn of his worldly prudence . 
Clearly , with a fellow of that sort , and in the peculiar relation they were to stand to each other , it would not have done to blurt out everything . 
He did not like the fellow . 
He did not like his spells of fawning loquacity and bursts of resentfulness . 
In the end a poor devil . 
He would not have liked to stand in his shoes . 
Men were not evil , after all . 
He did not like his sleek hair , his queer way of standing at right angles , with his nose in the air , and glancing along his shoulder at you . 
No. On the whole , men were not bad they were only silly or unhappy . 
Captain Whalley had finished considering the discre tion of that step and there was the whole long night before him . 
No there was not much real harm in men and all the time a shadow marched with him , slanting on his left hand which in the East is a presage of evil . 
Can you make out the clump of palms yet , Serang ? asked Captain Whalley from his chair on the bridge of the Sofala approaching the bar of Batu Beru . 
Captain Whalley sat still , without lifting his head to look for himself . 
Three years thirty six times . 
He had made these palms thirty six times from the south ward . 
They would come into view at the proper time . 
Thank God , the old ship made her courses and distances trip after trip , as correct as clockwork . 
At last he mur mured again In sight yet ? The sun makes a very great glare , Tuan . 
A white man had ascended the ladder from the deck noiselessly , and had listened quietly to this short col loquy . 
Then he stepped out on the bridge and began to walk from end to end , holding up the long cherry wood stem of a pipe . 
His black hair lay plastered in long lanky wisps across the bald summit of his head he had a furrowed brow , a yellow complexion , and a thick shapeless nose . 
A scanty growth of whisker did not conceal the contour of his jaw . 
Captain Whalley seemed to brace himself up in his chair , but gave no recognition whatever to his presence . 
The other puffed jets of smoke then suddenly I could never understand that new mania of yours of having this Malay here for your shadow , partner . 
Walk over me now , he muttered in a sort of astounded and dis comfited whisper . 
Then slowly and distinctly he said I am not dirt . 
And then added defiantly , As you seem to think . 
The Serang jerked out See the palms now , Tuan . 
Another white man , the mate , came up on the bridge . 
He was tall , young , lean , with a mustache like a trooper , and something malicious in the eye . 
He took up a position beside the engineer . 
Captain Whalley , with his back to them , inquired What's on the log ? Eighty five , answered the mate quickly , and nudged the engineer with his elbow . 
The silent Malay stepped back , waited a little , and lifted his arm warningly to the helmsman . 
The wheel revolved rapidly to meet the swing of the ship . 
Again the made nudged the engineer . 
But Massy turned upon him . 
Mr. Sterne , he said violently , let me tell you as a shipowner that you are no better than a con founded fool . 
VII Sterne went down smirking and apparently not at all disconcerted , but the engineer Massy remained on the bridge , moving about with uneasy self assertion . 
Everybody on board was his inferior everyone with out exception . 
He paid their wages and found them in their food . 
Their use was manifest they were an indispensable part of the ma chinery of which he was the master . 
When he passed along his decks he shouldered those he came across brutally but the Malay deck hands had learned to dodge out of his way . 
He had to bring him self to tolerate them because of the necessary manual labor of the ship which must be done . 
He had to struggle and plan and scheme to keep the Sofala afloat and what did he get for it ? Not even enough respect . 
They could not have given him enough of that if all their thoughts and all their actions had been directed to that end . 
He walked up and down . 
The bridge was his own after all . 
and the slight grinding of the steering chains upon the continuous low wash of water alongside . 
The alluvial coast having no distinguishing marks , the bearings of the crossing place had to be taken from the shape of the mountains inland . 
In this veil of light the near edge of the shore alone stood out almost coal black with an opaque and motionless solidity . 
On the forepart of the bridge the giant and the pigmy muttered to each other frequently in quiet tones . 
Be hind them Massy stood sideways with an expression of disdain and suspense on his face . 
His globular eyes were perfectly motionless , and he seemed to have for gotten the long pipe he held in his hand . 
On the fore deck below the bridge , steeply roofed with the white slopes of the awnings , a young lascar seaman had clambered outside the rail . 
He adjusted quickly a broad band of sail canvas under his armpits , and throwing his chest against it , leaned out far over the water . 
The sleeves of his thin cotton shirt , cut off close to the shoulder , bared his brown arm of full rounded form and with a satiny skin like a woman's . 
He swung it rigidly with the rotary and menacing action of a slinger the lb . 
weight hurtled circling in the air , then suddenly flew ahead as far as the curve of the bow . 
Tiga stengah , he cried after each splash and pause , gathering the line busily for another cast . 
Tiga stengah , which means three fathom and a half . 
For a mile or so from seaward there was a uniform depth of water right up to the bar . 
This was unreasonable but he had lived in his own world of unreasonable resentments for many years . 
At last , passing his moist palm over the rare lanky wisps of coarse hair on the top of his yellow head , he began to talk slowly . 
A leadsman , you want ! I suppose that's your cor rect mail boat style . 
And there's that written agreement of ours , that says I mustn't interfere . 
Dead slow , said the Captain aloud in a firm tone . 
The Serang snatched at the handle of the telegraph . 
A gong clanged down below . 
Massy with a scornful snigger walked off and put his head down the engine room skylight . 
You may expect some rare fooling with the engines , Jack , he bellowed . 
The space into which he stared was deep and full of gloom and the gray gleams of steel down there seemed cool after the intense glare of the sea around the ship . 
The air , however , came up clammy and hot on his face . 
A short hoot on which it would have been impossible to put any sort of interpretation came from the bottom cavernously . 
This was the way in which the second engineer answered his chief . 
When addressed directly his only answer would be a grunt or a hoot , according to the distance . 
For all the years he had been in the Sofala he had never been known to exchange as much as a frank Good morn ing with any of his shipmates . 
He did not seem aware that men came and went in the world he did not seem to see them at all . 
Indeed he never recognized his ship mates on shore . 
In port at the end of the trip he went ashore regularly , but no one knew where he spent his evenings or in what manner . 
The local coasting fleet had preserved a wild and incoherent tale of his infatuation for the wife of a sergeant in an Irish infantry regiment . 
The regiment , however , had done its turn of garrison duty there ages before , and was gone somewhere to the other side of the earth , out of men's knowledge . 
Twice or perhaps three times in the course of the year he would take too much to drink . 
The inebriated voice on the other side of the bulkhead commented upon them all with an ex traordinary and ingenious venom of scandalous inven tions . 
It seems they had all offended him in some way , and in return he had found them all out . 
He muttered darkly he laughed sardonically he crushed them one after another but of his chief , Massy , he babbled with an envious and naive admiration . 
Clever scoundrel ! Don't meet the likes of him every day . 
Ha ! Great ! Ship of his own . 
Wouldn't catch HIM going wrong . 
VIII For a while after his second's answering hoot Massy hung over the engine room gloomily . 
Captain Whal ley , who , by the power of five hundred pounds , had kept his command for three years , might have been suspected of never having seen that coast before . 
He seemed un able to put down his glasses , as though they had been glued under his contracted eyebrows . 
From time to time , still holding up his glasses , he raised his other hand to wipe his streaming face . 
The gong clanged down below . 
The illusion of perfect immobility seemed to fall upon her from the luminous blue dome without a stain arching over a flat sea without a stir . 
The nar row , long hull , carrying its way without a ripple , seemed to approach the shoal water of the bar by stealth . 
The plunge of the lead with the mournful , mechanical cry of the lascar came at longer and longer intervals and the men on her bridge seemed to hold their breath . 
The Malay at the helm looked fixedly at the compass card , the Captain and the Serang stared at the coast . 
Massy had left the skylight , and , walking flat footed , had returned softly to the very spot on the bridge he had occupied before . 
A slow , lingering grin exposed his set of big white teeth they gleamed evenly in the shade of the awning like the keyboard of a piano in a dusky room . 
At last , pretending to talk to himself in excessive as tonishment , he said not very loud Stop the engines now . 
What next , I wonder ? He waited , stooping from the shoulders , his head bowed , his glance oblique . 
Then raising his voice a shade If I dared make an absurd remark I would say that you haven't the stomach to . 
But a yelling spirit of excitement , like some frantic soul wandering unsuspected in the vast stillness of the coast , had seized upon the body of the lascar at the lead . 
The languid monotony of his sing song changed to a swift , sharp clamor . 
The weight flew after a single whir , the line whistled , splash followed splash in haste . 
The water had shoaled , and the man , instead of the drowsy tale of fathoms , was calling out the soundings in feet . 
Fifteen , fifteen ! Fourteen , four teen . 
Captain Whalley lowered the arm holding the glasses . 
Massy , very still , and turning an attentive ear , had fastened his eyes upon the silvery , close cropped back of the steady old head . 
The ship herself seemed to be arrested but for the gradual decrease of depth under her keel . 
Thirteen ! Twelve ! cried the leadsman anxiously below the bridge . 
And suddenly the barefooted Serang stepped away noiselessly to steal a glance over the side . 
He was not startled at the sight in the least . 
It was not doubt , but the certitude that the keel of the Sofala must be stirring the mud now , which made him peep over the side . 
Since that time he had repeatedly looked at that estuary , upon that coast , from this bridge and from this side of the bar . 
The record of the visual world fell through his eyes upon his unspeculating mind as on a sensitized plate through the lens of a camera . 
He was certain of his facts but such a certitude counted for little against the doubt what answer would be pleasing . 
had had his nativity cast by a man of skill and wisdom in astrology , because in the arrange ment of the stars may be read the last word of human destiny . 
His destiny had been to thrive by the favor of various white men on the sea . 
But he had no doubt whatever that the Sofala was out of the proper track for crossing the bar at Batu Beru . 
It was a slight error . 
would have been inclined to doubt the testimony of his senses . 
It was some such feeling that kept Massy motionless , with his teeth laid bare by an anxious grin . 
He was not troubled by any intellectual mis trust of his senses . 
If his captain chose to stir the mud it was well . 
He had known in his life white men indulge in outbreaks equally strange . 
He was only genuinely interested to see what would come of it . 
At last , appar ently satisfied , he stepped back from the rail . 
He had made no sound Captain Whalley , however , seemed to have observed the movements of his Serang . 
Holding his head rigidly , he asked with a mere stir of his lips Going ahead still , Serang ? Still going a little , Tuan , answered the Malay . 
Then added casually , She is over . 
Massy brought the palm of his hand with a loud smack against his thigh . 
You grazed on the bar . 
Just look astern and see if you didn't . 
Look at the track she left . 
You can see it plainly . 
Upon my soul , I thought you would ! What made you do that ? What on earth made you do that ? I believe you are trying to scare me . 
He talked slowly , as it were circumspectly , keeping his prominent black eyes on his captain . 
Whenever his resent ment got the better of the awe the person of Captain Whalley inspired he would positively whimper with fury . 
You don't know what to invent to plague my life out of me . 
I would not have thought that a man of your sort would condescend . 
I am puzzled , he went on again , with the watchful unsmiling baring of his big teeth . 
I don't know what to think . 
I do believe you are trying to frighten me . 
You very nearly planted her on the bar for at least twelve hours , besides getting the engines choked with mud . 
Ships can't afford to lose twelve hours on a trip nowadays as you ought to know very well , and do know very well to be sure , only . 
His slow volubility , the sideways cranings of his neck , the black glances out of the very corners of his eyes , left Captain Whalley unmoved . 
He looked at the deck with a severe frown . 
Massy waited for some little time , then began to threaten plaintively . 
You think you've got me bound hand and foot in that agreement . 
You think you can torment me in any way you please . 
Ah ! But remember it has another six weeks to run yet . 
There's time for me to dismiss you before the three years are out . 
You gloat over that idea don't you ? I do be lieve you sit here gloating . 
It's as if I had sold my soul for five hundred pounds to be everlastingly damned in the end . 
He paused , without apparent exasperation , then con tinued evenly . 
I am not a fool , you know , Captain Whalley partner . 
Again he paused , as though he had done for good . 
He passed his tongue over his lips , gave a backward glance at the Serang conning the ship with quiet whis pers and slight signs of the hand . 
The wash of the propeller sent a swift ripple , crested with dark froth , upon a long flat spit of black slime . 
Though if anybody ever got the best of me , it is you . 
I don't mind saying this . 
I've said it there ! What more can you want ? Isn't that enough for your pride , Captain Whalley . 
You got over me from the first . 
It's all of a piece , when I look back at it . 
You allowed me to insert that clause about intemperance without saying anything , only looking very sick when I made a point of it going in black on white . 
How could I tell what was wrong about you . 
There's generally something wrong somewhere . 
And , lo and behold ! when you come on board it turns out that you've been in the habit of drinking nothing but water for years and years . 
His dogmatic reproachful whine stopped . 
He brooded profoundly , after the manner of crafty and unintelli gent men . 
It seemed inconceivable that Captain Whalley should not laugh at the expression of disgust that overspread the heavy , yellow countenance . 
But Captain Whalley never raised his eyes sitting in his arm chair , outraged , dignified , and motionless . 
Much good it was to me , Massy remonstrated monotonously , to insert a clause for dismissal for in temperance against a man who drinks nothing but water . 
A shipowner can't be too careful as to the sort of skipper he gets . 
You must have been laughing at me in your sleeve all the blessed time . 
Eh ? What are you going to say ? Captain Whalley had only shuffled his feet slightly . 
A dull animosity became apparent in Massy's sideways stare . 
But recollect that there are other grounds of dis missal . 
There's habitual carelessness , amounting to in competence there's gross and persistent neglect of duty . 
I am not quite as big a fool as you try to make me out to be . 
You have been careless of late leaving everything to that Serang . 
Why ! I've seen you let ting that old fool of a Malay take bearings for you , as if you were too big to attend to your work yourself . 
Wiping his hands on a bunch of cotton waste , he looked about with indifference to the right and left at the river banks slipping astern of the Sofala steadily . 
Massy turned full at the chair . 
The character of his whine became again threatening . 
I may yet dismiss you and freeze to your money for a year . 
But before the silent , rigid immobility of the man whose money had come in the nick of time to save him from utter ruin , his voice died out in his throat . 
Not that I want you to go , he resumed after a si lence , and in an absurdly insinuating tone . 
She must have new boilers you know it as well as I do . 
Have you thought this over ? He waited . 
The slender stem of the pipe with its bulky lump of a bowl at the end hung down from his thick lips . 
Suddenly he took it from between his teeth and wrung his hands slightly . 
Don't you believe me ? He thrust the pipe bowl into the pocket of his shiny black jacket . 
It's like dealing with the devil , he said . 
Why don't you speak ? At first you were so high and mighty with me I hardly dared to creep about my own deck . 
Now I can't get a word from you . 
You don't seem to see me at all . 
What does it mean ? Upon my soul , you terrify me with this deaf and dumb trick . 
You have made me curse the day I was born . 
Mr. Massy , said Captain Whalley suddenly , with out stirring . 
If that is so I can only beg you to forgive me . 
Starboard , muttered the Serang to the helmsman and the Sofala began to swing round the bend into the second reach . 
You make my blood run cold . 
Was that it ? I believe you are the greatest miser in the world , or else why . 
No. I am only poor , interrupted Captain Whalley , stonily . 
Steady , murmured the Serang . 
Massy turned away with his chin on his shoulder . 
I don't believe it , he said in his dogmatic tone . 
Captain Whalley made no movement . 
There you sit like a gorged vulture exactly like a vulture . 
He embraced the middle of the reach and both the banks in one blank unseeing circular glance , and left the bridge slowly . 
Sterne had been a junior in one of the larger shipping concerns before joining the Sofala . 
He had thrown up his berth , he said , on general principles . 
The pro motion in the employ was very slow , he complained , and he thought it was time for him to try and get on a bit in the world . 
For doing rather more than his bare duty as likely as not . 
But everybody knew what sort of man Captain Provost was . 
It was no use appealing to the office . 
Captain Provost had too much influence in the employ . 
All the same , they had to give him a good character . 
He had come to Captain Whalley freshly shaved , red faced , thin flanked , throwing out his lean chest and had recited his little tale with an open and manly as surance . 
Captain Whalley had engaged him temporarily then , the other man hav ing been ordered home by the doctors , he had remained for the next trip , and then the next . 
He had now at tained permanency , and the performance of his duties was marked by an air of serious , single minded appli cation . 
Grave and smiling he watched Massy come down step by step when the chief engineer had reached the deck he swung about , and they found themselves face to face . 
But if it had been you we would have been stuck fast in the mud . 
Pardon me , Mr. Massy . 
I beg to deny it . 
Of course a shipowner may say what he jolly well pleases on his own deck . 
That's all right but I beg to . 
Get out of my way ! The other had a slight start , the impulse of suppressed indignation perhaps , but held his ground . 
In the end he too did not move , though there was plenty of room to pass on . 
I heard you say up there , went on the mate and a very just remark it was too that there's always something wrong . 
Eavesdropping is what's wrong with YOU , Mr. Sterne . 
Now , if you would only listen to me for a moment , Mr. Massy , sir , I could . 
I want I want , stammered Massy , infuriated and astonished I want . 
How do you know that I want anything ? How dare you ? . 
What do you mean ? . 
What are you after you . 
Sterne silenced him with a sort of candid bravado . 
The engineer's round soft cheeks quiv ered still , but he said quietly enough You are only worrying my head off , and Sterne met him with a confident little smile . 
used to tell me that this was the proper way . 
'Always push on to the front , he would say . 
'Keep yourself well before your boss . 
Interfere whenever you get a chance . 
Show him what you know . 
Worry him into seeing you . 
Now I know no other boss than you here . 
You are the owner , and no one else counts for THAT much in my eyes . 
See , Mr. Massy ? I want to get on . 
I make no secret of it that I am one of the sort that means to get on . 
These are the men to make use of , sir . 
You haven't arrived at the top of the tree , sir , without finding that out I dare say . 
Worry your boss in order to get on , mumbled Massy , as if awestruck by the irreverent originality of the idea . 
I shouldn't wonder if this was just what the Blue Anchor people kicked you out of the employ for . 
Is that what you call getting on ? You shall get on in the same way here if you aren't careful I can promise you . 
At this Sterne hung his head , thoughtful , perplexed , winking hard at the deck . 
On this occa sion he seemed to have lost his tongue for a moment , and Massy , getting in motion , heavily passed him by with an abortive attempt at shouldering . 
Sterne defeated it by stepping aside . 
He turned then swiftly , opening his mouth very wide as if to shout something after the engineer , but seemed to think better of it . 
It was his belief that no skipper in the world would keep his com mand for a day if only the owners could be made to know . 
It filled the leisure of his waking hours with the reveries of careful plans and compromising discov eries the dreams of his sleep with images of lucky turns and favorable accidents . 
Skippers had been known to sicken and die at sea , than which nothing could be better to give a smart mate a chance of showing what he's made of . 
They also would tumble overboard sometimes he had heard of one or two such cases . 
After he had gained a permanent footing on board the Sofala he allowed his perennial hope to rise high . 
Sterne was greatly chagrined , however , to notice that he did not seem any way near being past his work yet . 
Still , these old men go to pieces all at once sometimes . 
Then there was the owner engineer close at hand to be impressed by his zeal and steadiness . 
only , nowadays , professional merit alone does not take a man along fast enough . 
A chap must have some push in him , and must keep his wits at work too to help him forward . 
His peculiar prying imagina tion penetrated it quickly the feeling that there was in it an element which eluded his grasp exasperated his impatience to get on . 
Then one day he made his discovery . 
Not with the same authority , however . 
They had just left a place of call on the mainland called Pangu they were steaming straight out of a bay . 
To the east a massive headland closed the view , with the tilted edges of the rocky strata showing through its ragged clothing of rank bushes and thorny creepers . 
The usual track of the Sofala both going and return ing on every trip led her for a few miles along this reef infested region . 
The noise of their continuous and violent screaming filled the air . 
No one noticed it especially on board it was the voice of their ship's un erring landfall , ending the steady stretch of a hundred miles . 
She had made good her course , she had run her distance till the punctual islets began to emerge one by one , the points of rocks , the hummocks of earth . 
But when the Sofala happened to close with the land after sunset she would find everything very still there under the mantle of the night . 
Sometimes there were human eyes open to watch them come nearer , traveling smoothly in the somber void the eyes of a naked fisherman in his canoe floating over a reef . 
He thought drowsily Ha ! The fire ship that once in every moon goes in and comes out of Pangu bay . 
More he did not know of her . 
Only a blurring cloud at first , the thin mist of her smoke would arise mysteriously from an empty point on the clear line of sea and sky . 
On such days the luminous sea would give no sign of the dangers lurking on both sides of her path . 
And yet the suc cessive captains of the Sofala had had to take her through at night more than once . 
Nowadays you could not afford to throw away six or seven hours of a steamer's time . 
But then use is everything , and with proper care . 
This was Sterne's last train of thought independent of the great discovery . 
He had just seen to the secur ing of the anchor , and had remained forward idling away a moment or two . 
The captain was in charge on the bridge . 
With a slight yawn he had turned away from his survey of the sea and had leaned his shoulders against the fish davit . 
These , properly speaking , were the very last moments of ease he was to know on board the Sofala . 
All the instants that came after were to be pregnant with pur pose and intolerable with perplexity . 
No more idle , random thoughts the discovery would put them on the rack , till sometimes he wished to goodness he had been fool enough not to make it at all . 
And yet , if his chance to get on rested on the discovery of something wrong , he could not have hoped for a greater stroke of luck . 
X The knowledge was too disturbing , really . 
There was something wrong with a vengeance , and the moral certitude of it was at first simply frightful to contem plate . 
Sterne had been looking aft in a mood so idle , that for once he was thinking no harm of anyone . 
His captain on the bridge presented himself naturally to his sight . 
Sterne could just detect the twin gleam of the whites shifting under the shaggy arches of the brow . 
At short range these eyes , for all the man's affable manner , seemed to look you through and through . 
Sterne never could defend himself from that feeling when he had occasion to speak with his captain . 
He did not like it . 
What a big heavy man he appeared up there , with that little shrimp of a Serang in close attendance as was usual in this extraordinary steamer ! Confounded absurd cus tom that . 
Surely the old fellow could have looked after his ship without that loafing native at his elbow . 
Sterne wriggled his shoulders with dis gust . 
What was it ? Indolence or what ? That old skipper must have been growing lazy for years . 
they got slack all over . 
No doubt the Malay was standing back , nearer to the wheel but the great disparity of size in close associa tion amused Sterne like the observation of a bizarre fact in nature . 
They were as queer fish out of the sea as any in it . 
He saw Captain Whalley turn his head quickly to speak to his Serang the wind whipped the whole white mass of the beard sideways . 
He would be directing the chap to look at the compass for him , or what not . 
Too much trouble to step over and see for him self . 
Sterne's scorn for that bodily indolence which overtakes white men in the East increased on reflection . 
Some of them would be utterly lost if they hadn't all these natives at their beck and call they grew perfectly shameless about it too . 
He was not of that sort , thank God ! It wasn't in him to make himself dependent for his work on any shriveled up little Malay like that . 
As if one could ever trust a silly native for anything in the world ! But that fine old man thought differently , it seems . 
There they were together , never far apart a pair of them , recalling to the mind an old whale at tended by a little pilot fish . 
The fancifulness of the comparison made him smile . 
But Mr. Massy did not mind what he said in his savage fits . 
He recognizes be cause he already knows . 
He was made to stick to the skipper as though he were of some use as the pilot fish , they say , is to the whale . 
But how it was very marked how ? A pilot fish a pilot a . 
But if not superior knowledge then . 
It was repugnant to his imagination , shocking to his ideas of honesty , shocking to his conception of mankind . 
A very natural incredulity succeeding this sense of upheaval brought a measure of relief . 
He had gasped it was over . 
But afterwards during all that day sudden paroxysms of wonder would come over him in the midst of his occupations . 
He would stop and shake his head . 
The revolt of his incredulity had passed away almost as quick as the first emotion of discovery , and for the next twenty four hours he had no sleep . 
he could not help losing himself in a fascinated contemplation of Captain Whalley opposite . 
He fed himself like a somnambulist . 
He would close his mouth in a hurry then , and lowering his eyes , wink rapidly at his plate . 
It was awful to see the old chap sitting there it was even awful to think that with three words he could blow him up sky high . 
The old chap could eat in his terrific mechanical way but Sterne , from mental excitement , could not not that evening , at any rate . 
He had had ample time since to get accustomed to the strain of the meal hours . 
He would never have believed it . 
But then use is everything only the very potency of his success prevented anything resembling elation . 
It is the sort of weapon to make its possessor careworn and nervous . 
He had no mind to be blown up himself and he could not get rid of the notion that the explosion was bound to damage him too in some way . 
This vague apprehension had restrained him at first . 
He was able now to eat and sleep with that fearful weapon by his side , with the conviction of its power always in mind . 
Every day that passed over the Sofala appeared to Sterne simply crammed full with proofs with incon trovertible proofs . 
and stand a full hour , perhaps , on his bare feet below the bridge , as absolutely motionless as the awning stanchion in its deck socket near by . 
On the stretches of easy navigation it is not usual for a coasting captain to re main on deck all the time of his watch . 
The Serang keeps it for him as a matter of custom in open water , on a straight course , he is usually trusted to look after the ship by himself . 
But this old man seemed incapable of remaining quietly down below . 
No doubt he could not sleep . 
This was also a proof . 
The ship is making her course ? She is , Tuan . 
Then , when the Serang had made his answer , the low tones on the bridge would cease , and everything round Sterne seemed to become more still and more profoundly silent . 
Slightly chilled and with his back aching a little from long immobility , he would steal away to his room on the port side of the deck . 
He had long since parted with the last vestige of incredulity of the original emotions , set into a tumult by the discovery , some trace of the first awe alone remained . 
You could not find another man like this one in the whole round world thank God . 
There was something devilishly dauntless in the character of such a deception which made you pause . 
Other considerations occurring to his prudence had kept him tongue tied from day to day . 
It seemed to him now that it would yet have been easier to speak out in the first hour of discovery . 
He almost regretted not having made a row at once . 
But then the very mon strosity of the disclosure . 
Why ! He could hardly face it himself , let alone pointing it out to somebody else . 
Moreover , with a desperado of that sort one never knew . 
, but to step into his place . 
Bizarre as the thought seemed he might have shown fight . 
A fellow up to working such a fraud would have enough cheek for anything a fellow that , as it were , stood up against God Almighty Himself . 
kicked out of the ship and everlast ingly damaged his prospects in this part of the East . 
Yet if you want to get on something must be risked . 
Massy's savage moroseness was too disconcerting . 
It was an incalculable factor of the situation . 
You could not tell what there was behind that insulting ferocity . 
How could one trust such a temper it did not put Sterne in bodily fear for himself , but it frightened him exceedingly as to his prospects . 
Though of course inclined to credit himself with ex ceptional powers of observation , he had by now lived too long with his discovery . 
He had gone on looking at nothing else , till at last one day it occurred to him that the thing was so obvious that no one could miss seeing it . 
There were four white men in all on board the Sofala . 
Jack , the second engineer , was too dull to notice anything that took place out of his engine room . 
Remained Massy the owner the interested person nearly going mad with worry . 
Sterne had heard and seen more than enough on board to know what ailed him but his exasperation seemed to make him deaf to cau tious overtures . 
If he had only known it , there was the very thing he wanted . 
But how could you bargain with a man of that sort ? It was like going into a tiger's den with a piece of raw meat in your hand . 
He was as likely as not to rend you for your pains . 
Occurrences like the crossing of the bar just now were extremely alarming to his prospects . 
He did not want to be left behind by some swift catastrophe . 
Massy be ing on the bridge , the old man had to brace himself up and make a show , he supposed . 
But it was getting very bad with him , very bad indeed , now . 
Even Massy had been emboldened to find fault this time Sterne , listen ing at the foot of the ladder , had heard the other's whimpering and artless denunciations . 
Luckily the beast was very stupid and could not see the why of all this . 
However , small blame to him it took a clever man to hit upon the cause . 
Nevertheless , it was high time to do something . 
The old man's game could not be kept up for many days more . 
Yes , no doubt he thought but to blurt out his knowledge would not ad vance his prospects . 
On the contrary , it would blast them utterly as likely as not . 
He had a vague consciousness of not being much liked by his fellows in this part of the world inex plicably enough , for he had done nothing to them . 
People were always down on a clever chap who made no bones about his determination to get on . 
To do your duty and count on the gratitude of that brute Massy would be sheer folly . 
He was a bad lot . 
Such insensibility was almost mysterious . 
Massy's state of exasperation seemed to Sterne to have made him stupid beyond the ordinary silliness of shipowners . 
Sterne , meditating on the embarrassments of that stu pidity , forgot himself completely . 
His stony , unwink ing stare was fixed on the planks of the deck . 
The slight quiver agitating the whole fabric of the ship was more perceptible in the silent river , shaded and still like a forest path . 
The Sofala , gliding with an even motion , had passed beyond the coast belt of mud and mangroves . 
The shores rose higher , in firm slop ing banks , and the forest of big trees came down to the brink . 
The passengers for Batu Beru , kneeling on the planks , were engaged in rolling their bedding of mats busily they tied up bundles , they snapped the locks of wooden chests . 
A pockmarked peddler of small wares threw his head back to drain into his throat the last drops out of an earthenware bottle before putting it away in a roll of blankets . 
I must , thought Sterne , bring that brute Massy to his bearings . 
It's getting too absurd in the end . 
Because that's what he is . 
In the place that's mine by rights . 
I must bring that savage brute to his bear ings . 
I'll do it at once , too . 
The father , unmoved , put out his hand to pat the little shaven poll protectingly . 
XI Sterne crossed the deck upon the track of the chief engineer . 
He must have gone straight into his berth . 
Sterne scratched at the door softly , then , putting his lips to the rose of the ventilator , said I must speak to you , Mr. Massy . 
Just give me a minute or two . 
Go away from my door . 
But pray , Mr. Massy . 
D'you hear ? Take yourself off alto gether to the other end of the ship quite away . 
The voice inside dropped low . 
Sterne paused then very quietly It's rather pressing . 
like the clean retreat of a desperately poor but exemplary person . 
Not a single photograph frame ornamented the bulkheads not a single article of clothing , not as much as a spare cap , hung from the brass hooks . 
All the inside was painted in one plain tint of pale blue two big sea chests in sailcloth covers and with iron padlocks fitted exactly in the space under the bunk . 
One glance was enough to embrace all the strip of scrubbed planks within the four unconcealed corners . 
, polished with much use , shone as if its shabbiness had been waxed . 
The screen of leaves on the bank , passing as if unrolled endlessly in the round opening of the port , sent a waver ing network of light and shade into the place . 
Sterne , holding the door open with one hand , had thrust in his head and shoulders . 
At this amazing intrusion Massy , who was doing absolutely nothing , jumped up speechless . 
Don't call names , murmured Sterne hurriedly . 
I won't be called names . 
I think of nothing but your good , Mr. Massy . 
A pause as of extreme astonishment followed . 
They both seemed to have lost their tongues . 
Then the mate went on with a discreet glibness . 
You simply couldn't conceive what's going on on board your ship . 
It wouldn't enter your head for a moment . 
You are too good too too upright , Mr. Massy , to suspect anybody of such a . 
It's enough to make your hair stand on end . 
He watched for the effect Massy seemed dazed , un comprehending . 
He only passed the palm of his hand on the coal black wisps plastered across the top of his head . 
In a tone suddenly changed to confidential au dacity Sterne hastened on . 
Remember that there's only six weeks left to run . 
The other was looking at him stonily . 
so anyhow you shall require a captain for the ship before long . 
Then only , as if that suggestion had scarified his flesh in the manner of red hot iron , Massy gave a start and seemed ready to shriek . 
He contained himself by a great effort . 
Require a captain , he repeated with scathing slow ness . 
Who requires a captain ? You dare to tell me that I need any of you humbugging sailors to run my ship . 
You and your likes have been fattening on me for years . 
It would have hurt me less to throw my money overboard . 
Pam pe red us e less f f f frauds . 
The old ship knows as much as the best of you . 
He snapped his teeth audibly and growled through them , The silly law requires a captain . 
Sterne had taken heart of grace meantime . 
And the silly insurance people too , as well , he said lightly . 
What I want to ask is Why shouldn't I do , sir ? I don't say but you could take a steamer about the world as well as any of us sailors . 
I don't pretend to tell YOU that it is a very great trick . 
He emitted a short , hollow guffaw , familiarly . 
I didn't make the law but there it is and I am an active young fellow ! I quite hold with your ideas I know your ways by this time , Mr. Massy . 
I wouldn't try to give myself airs like that that er lazy specimen of an old man up there . 
He put a marked emphasis on the last sentence , to lead Massy away from the track in case . 
but he did not doubt of now holding his success . 
The chief engineer seemed nonplused , like a slow man invited to catch hold of a whirligig of some sort . 
What you want , sir , is a chap with no nonsense about him , who would be content to be your sailing master . 
Well , I am fit for the work as much as that Serang . 
Because that's what it amounts to . 
Do you know , sir , that a dam' Malay like a monkey is in charge of your ship and no one else . 
Just listen to his feet pit patting above us on the bridge real officer in charge . 
He tried to thrust himself farther in . 
Massy , with lowered forehead , one hand grasping the back of the arm chair , did not budge . 
You think , sir , that the man has got you tight in his agreement . 
Massy raised a heavy snarling face at this . 
Well , sir , one can't help hearing of it on board . 
And it has been the talk on shore for years fellows have been making bets about it . 
No , sir ! It's YOU who have got him at your mercy . 
You will say that you can't dismiss him for indolence . 
Difficult to prove in court , and so on . 
Now , what do you think of that ? Come , sir . 
It's really well worth your while , and I am quite ready to take your bare word . 
A definite statement from you would be as good as a bond . 
His eyes began to shine . 
A simple state ment , and he thought to himself that he would man age somehow to stick in his berth as long as it suited him . 
He would make himself indispensable the ship had a bad name in her port it would be easy to scare the fellows off . 
Massy would have to keep him . 
A definite statement from me would be enough , Massy repeated slowly . 
Sterne stuck out his chin cheerily and blinked at close quarters with that uncon scious impudence which had the power to enrage Massy beyond anything . 
The engineer spoke very distinctly . 
Listen well to me , then , Mr. Sterne I wouldn't d'ye hear ? I wouldn't promise you the value of two pence for anything YOU can tell me . 
He struck Sterne's arm away with a smart blow , and catching hold of the handle pulled the door to . 
The terrific slam darkened the cabin instantaneously to his eye as if after the flash of an explosion . 
At once he dropped into the chair . 
Oh , no ! You don't ! he whispered faintly . 
Oh , no , you don't ! murmured the engineer again . 
With his elbows propped , his head between his hands , he seemed to lose himself in the study of an abstruse problem in mathematics . 
It was the list of the winning numbers from the last drawing of the great lottery which had been the one inspiring fact of so many years of his existence . 
Massy kept them under lock and key like a treasure . 
There was in them , as in the experience of life , the fascination of hope , the excitement of a half penetrated mystery , the longing of a half satisfied desire . 
He nourished a conviction that there must be some logic lurking somewhere in the results of chance . 
He thought he had seen its very form . 
Nine , nine , aught , four , two . 
The next winning number of the great prize was forty seven thousand and five . 
These numbers of course would have to be avoided in the future when writing to Manilla for the tickets . 
He mumbled , pencil in hand . 
He wetted his finger the papers rustled . 
Ha ! But what's this ? Three years ago , in the September drawing , it was number nine , aught , four , two that took the first prize . 
There was a hint there of a definite rule ! He was afraid of missing some recondite principle in the overwhelming wealth of his material . 
What could it be ? and for half an hour he would remain dead still , bent low over the desk , without twitching a muscle . 
At his back the whole berth would be thick with a heavy body of smoke , as if a bomb had burst in there , unnoticed , unheard . 
At last he would lock up the desk with the decision of unshaken confidence , jump and go out . 
He would walk swiftly back and forth on that part of the foredeck which was kept clear of the lumber and of the bodies of the native passengers . 
They were a great nuisance , but they were also a source of profit that could not be dis dained . 
He needed every penny of profit the Sofala could make . 
It was simply a matter of time and of taking as many tickets as he could afford for every drawing . 
He generally took rather more all the earn ings of the ship went that way , and also the wages he allowed himself as chief engineer . 
It was the wages he paid to others that he begrudged with a reasoned and at the same time a passionate regret . 
The slights that had been put upon him . 
The persecutions he had suffered at the hands of skip pers of absolute nobodies in a steamship after all . 
Well ! he made it pretty warm for them but it was a poor consolation . 
He had come in time to hate the ship too for the repairs she required , for the coal bills he had to pay , for the poor beggarly freights she earned . 
He would clench his hand as he walked and hit the rail a sudden blow , viciously , as though she could be made to feel pain . 
It was now to do nothing , nothing whatever , and have plenty of money to do it on . 
He had tasted of power , the highest form of it his limited experience was aware of the power of shipowning . 
What a deception ! Vanity of vanities ! He wondered at his folly . 
He had thrown away the substance for the shadow . 
Of the gratification of wealth he did not know enough to excite his imagination with any visions of luxury . 
with his pockets full of sov ereigns . 
He would buy himself a house his married sisters , their husbands , his old workshop chums , would render him infinite homage . 
There would be nothing to think of . 
His word would be law . 
, the Maltese hotel keeper at the slummy end of Denham Street , had cringed joyfully before him in the evening , when the news had come . 
Poor Charley , though he made his living by ministering to various abject vices , gave credit for their food to many a piece of white wreckage . 
He was naively over joyed at the idea of his old bills being paid , and he reckoned confidently on a spell of festivities in the cavernous grog shop downstairs . 
Massy remembered the curious , respectful looks of the trashy white men in the place . 
His heart had swelled within him . 
Massy had left Charley's infamous den directly he had realized the possibilities open to him , and with his nose in the air . 
Afterwards the memory of these adulations was a great sadness . 
This was the true power of money , and no trouble with it , nor any thinking required either . 
As a shipowner everyone had conspired to make him a nobody . 
How could he have been such a fool as to purchase that ac cursed ship . 
But he had never hated anyone so much as that old man who had turned up one evening to save him from an utter disaster , from the conspiracy of the wretched sailors . 
He seemed to have fallen on board from the sky . 
Want to see me on business ? What business ? I am doing no business . 
Can't you see that this ship is laid up ? Massy had turned at bay before the pursuing irony of his disaster . 
Afterwards he could not believe his ears . 
What was that old fellow getting at ? Things don't happen that way . 
He would presently wake up and find the man vanished like a shape of mist . 
The gravity , the dignity , the firm and courteous tone of that athletic old stranger impressed Massy . 
But it was no dream . 
Five hundred pounds are no dream . 
At once he became suspicious . 
What did it mean ? Of course it was an offer to catch hold of for dear life . 
Massy's object had been to secure for himself as many ways as possible of getting rid of his partner without being called upon at once to pay back his share . 
Cap tain Whalley's efforts were directed to making the money secure . 
At the end of three years he was at liberty to withdraw from the partner ship , taking his money with him . 
Provision was made for forming a fund to pay him off . 
, Massy was to have a whole year for paying . 
Illness ? the lawyer had suggested a young man fresh from Europe and not overburdened with business , who was rather amused . 
Massy began to whine unctu ously , How could he be expected ? . 
Let that go , Captain Whalley had said with a superb confidence in his body . 
Acts of God , he added . 
His Creator knew what use he was making of his health how much he wanted it . 
I trust my first illness will be my last . 
I've never been ill that I can remember , he had remarked . 
But at this early stage he had already awakened Massy's hostility by refusing to make it six hundred instead of five . 
WON'T ! He must have lots of money , but he would like to get hold of a soft berth and the sixth part of my profits for nothing if he only could . 
And during these years Massy's dislike grew under the restraint of something resembling fear . 
The simplicity of that man appeared dangerous . 
Of late he had changed , however , had appeared less formidable and with a lessened vigor of life , as though he had received a secret wound . 
But still he remained incomprehensible in his simplicity , fearlessness , and rectitude . 
It had made him so clear eyed that for a long time now Mr. Sterne could have told him nothing he did not know . 
Why ! there was nothing else to do , unless he were to abandon his chances of fortune . 
But now , suddenly , since the crossing of the bar at Batu Beru things seemed to be coming rapidly to a point . 
It disquieted him so much that the study of the winning numbers failed to soothe his agitation and the twilight in the cabin deepened , very somber . 
He put the list away , muttering once more , Oh , no , my boy , you don't . 
Not if I know it . 
He did not mean the blinking , eavesdropping humbug to force his action . 
He heard them the passengers were beginning to jabber excitedly somebody dragged a heavy box past his door . 
He heard Captain Whalley's voice above Stations , Mr. Sterne . 
And the answer from some where on deck forward Ay , ay , sir . 
We shall moor head up stream this time the ebb has made . 
Head up stream , sir . 
You will see to it , Mr. Sterne . 
The answer was covered by the autocratic clang on the engine room gong . 
The propeller went on beating slowly one , two , three one , two , three with pauses as if hesitating on the turn . 
The gong clanged time after time , and the water churned this way and that by the blades was making a great noisy commotion alongside . 
Mr. Massy did not move . 
Mr. Massy did not move . 
After a few last ponderous turns the engines stopped , and the prolonged clanging of the gong signified that the captain had done with them . 
A great number of boats and canoes of all sizes boarded the off side of the Sofala . 
On the shore , a voice , cultivated , slightly authoritative , spoke very close alongside Brought any mail for me this time ? Yes , Mr. Van Wyk . 
This was from Sterne , an swering over the rail in a tone of respectful cordiality . 
Shall I bring it up to you ? But the voice asked again Where's the captain ? Still on the bridge , I believe . 
He hasn't left his chair . 
I will come on board . 
Mr. Van Wyk , Sterne suddenly broke out with an eager effort , will you do me the favor . 
The mate walked away quickly towards the gangway . 
Mr. Massy in the dark did not move . 
He did not move even when he heard slow shuffling footsteps pass his cabin lazily . 
We have been very long coming up this time , Mr. Massy growled , without changing his attitude . 
What do you expect with half the boiler tubes plugged up for leaks . 
The second defended himself loquaciously . 
None of your lip , said Massy . 
None of your rotten boilers I say , retorted his faithful subordinate without animation , huskily . 
Go down there and carry a head of steam on them yourself if you dare . 
You aren't worth your salt then , Massy said . 
The other made a faint noise which resembled a laugh but might have been a snarl . 
Better go slow than stop the ship altogether , he admonished his admired superior . 
Mr. Massy moved at last . 
He turned in his chair , and grinding his teeth Dam' you and the ship ! I wish she were at the bottom of the sea . 
Then you would have to starve . 
The trusty second engineer closed the door gently . 
Instead of passing on to the bath room where he should have gone to clean himself , the second entered his cabin , which was next door . 
Mr. Massy jumped up and waited . 
Suddenly he heard the lock snap in there . 
He rushed out and gave a violent kick to the door . 
I believe you are locking yourself up to get drunk , he shouted . 
A muffled answer came after a while . 
If you take to boozing on the trip I'll fire you out , Massy cried . 
An obstinate silence followed that threat . 
On the bank two figures ap peared , approaching the gangway . 
He heard a voice tinged with contempt I would rather doubt your word . 
But I shall cer tainly speak to him of this . 
The other voice , Sterne's , said with a sort of regretful formality Thanks . 
I must do my duty . 
A short , dapper figure leaped lightly on the deck and nearly bounded into him where he stood beyond the circle of light from the gang way lamp . 
I am not good enough for Mr. Van Wyk . 
Neither are you , sir , in his opinion , I am afraid . 
Captain Whalley is , it seems . 
He's gone to ask him to dine up at the house this evening . 
Then he murmured to himself darkly I hope he will like it . 
The appearance of the new skipper had attracted his atten tion . 
Nothing more unlike all the diverse types he had seen succeeding each other on the bridge of the Sofala could be imagined . 
and time never had any value . 
He was afraid of death , and hoped he would die before the white men were ready to take his country from him . 
, in the wistful hope of extracting some information on the subject from his own white man . 
Not seldom the visit began at daybreak . 
Mr. Van Wyk tolerated these inroads . 
He would nod out of his bedroom window , tooth brush or razor in hand , or pass through the throng of courtiers in his bathing robe . 
That old man had granted him as much land as he cared to have cleared it was neither more nor less than a fortune . 
Whether it was fortune or seclusion from his kind that Mr. Van Wyk sought , he could not have pitched upon a better place . 
Even the mail boats of the subsidized company calling on the veriest clusters of palm thatched hovels along the coast steamed past the mouth of Batu Beru river far away in the offing . 
, or got into a difficulty about a skipper , Mr. Van Wyk was deprived of his letter and newspapers . 
In so far he had a personal interest in the fortunes of the Sofala . 
, he liked to know what went on in the world . 
Moreover , it was a hygienic precaution . 
Worn wide open in front , a short jacket of some airy silken stuff floated from his shoulders . 
It was his evening get up . 
While the Sofala was being made fast he strolled in the shade of the few trees left near the landing place , waiting till he could go on board . 
Her white men were not of his kind . 
was really much more acceptable to his fastidious taste . 
But still they were white the periodical visits of the ship made a break in the well filled sameness of the days without disturbing his privacy . 
Moreover , they were necessary from a business point of view and through a strain of preciseness in his nature he was irritated when she failed to appear at the appointed time . 
The cause of the irregularity was too absurd , and Massy , in his opinion , was a contemptible idiot . 
He could make out easily all the white faces on board . 
Who on earth was that kind of patriarch they had got there on the bridge now ? At last he sprang up and walked down the gravel path . 
It was a fact that the very gravel for his paths had been imported by the Sofala . 
Nothing could be heard but the words Mr. Van Wyk . 
Indeed , Mr. Van Wyk . 
I am tired of this . 
I wonder you have the impudence to come alongside my jetty as if I had it made for your convenience alone . 
Massy tried to protest earnestly . 
Mr. Van Wyk was very angry . 
He had a good mind to ask that German firm those people in Malacca what was their name ? boats with green funnels . 
They would be only too glad of the opening to put one of their small steamers on the run . 
Yes Schnitzler , Jacob Schnitzler , would in a moment . 
He had decided to write without delay . 
In his agitation Massy caught up his falling pipe . 
You don't mean it , sir ! he shrieked . 
You shouldn't mismanage your business in this ridiculous manner . 
Mr. Van Wyk turned on his heel . 
The other three whites on the bridge had not stirred during the scene . 
Massy walked hastily from side to side , puffed out his cheeks , suffocated . 
Stuck up Dutchman ! And he moaned out feverishly a long tale of griefs . 
The efforts he had made for all these years to please that man . 
This was the return you got for it , eh ? Pretty . 
Write to Schnitzler let in the green funnel boats get an old Hamburg Jew to ruin him . 
No , really he could laugh . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! And make him carry the letter in his own ship presumably . 
He stumbled across a grating and swore . 
He would not hesitate to fling the Dutchman's correspondence overboard the whole confounded bundle . 
He had never , never made any charge for that accommodation . 
But Captain Whalley , his new partner , would not let him probably besides , it would be only putting off the evil day . 
For his own part he would make a hole in the water rather than look on tamely at the green funnels overrunning his trade . 
The China boys hung back with the dishes at the foot of the ladder . 
You don't seem to care what happens to me . 
Don't you see that this affects your interests as much as mine ? It's no joking matter . 
He took the foot of the table growling between his teeth . 
Unless you have a few thousands put away some where . 
Mr. Van Wyk dined in his thoroughly lit up bunga low , putting a point of splendor in the night of his clearing above the dark bank of the river . 
Afterwards he sat down to his piano , and in a pause he became aware of slow footsteps passing on the path along the front . 
A plank or two creaked under a heavy tread he swung half round on the music stool , listening with his finger tips at rest on the keyboard . 
His little terrier barked violently , backing in from the veranda . 
A deep voice apologized gravely for this intrusion . 
The little dog barked un ceasingly , till a flick of Mr. Van Wyk's handkerchief made him spring aside into silence . 
Captain Whalley , opening the matter , was met by a punctiliously polite but determined opposition . 
They carried on their discussion standing where they had come face to face . 
Mr. Van Wyk observed his visitor with attention . 
Then at last , as if forced out of his reserve I am surprised that you should intercede for such a confounded fool . 
This outbreak was almost complimentary , as if its meaning had been , That such a man as you should intercede ! Captain Whalley let it pass by without flinching . 
One would have thought he had heard noth ing . 
He simply went on to state that he was personally interested in putting things straight between them . 
Captain Whalley , always straight , seemed to grow an inch taller and broader , as if the girth of his chest had suddenly expanded under his beard . 
My dear sir , you don't think I came here to discuss a man with whom I am I am h'm closely asso ciated . 
A sort of solemn silence lasted for a moment . 
He was not used to asking favors , but the importance he at tached to this affair had made him willing to try . 
A slight pause , then Captain Whalley stepped forward heavily . 
There was a lighthouse now , on an island . 
Maybe Mr. Van Wyk himself . 
Mr. Van Wyk caught on at once . 
For his own part he had seen some service in the last Acheen War , but had never been so far East . 
Whalley Island ? Of course . 
Now that was very interesting . 
What changes his guest must have seen since . 
I can look further back even on a whole half century . 
Captain Whalley expanded a bit . 
had gone straight to his heart , also the civility of that young man . 
There was something in that accidental contact of which he had been starved in his years of struggle . 
The front wall retreating made a square recess fur nished like a room . 
The flowering creepers scented the air . 
Their foliage clipped out between the uprights made as if several frames of thick unstirring leaves reflecting the lamp light in a green glow . 
The famous cigar in hand he had a moment of complacency . 
Somebody must lead the way . 
Why , that new route reduced the average time of a southern passage by eleven days for more than half the year . 
Eleven days ! It's on record . 
But the remarkable thing speaking to a sailor I should say was . 
He talked well , without egotism , professionally . 
Nursing one small foot , in a silk sock and a patent leather shoe , on his knee , he was immensely entertained . 
Captain Whalley had been also the pioneer of the early trade in the Gulf of Pe tchi li . 
He even found occasion to mention that he had buried his dear wife there six and twenty years ago . 
Mr. Van Wyk , impassive , could not help speculating in his mind swiftly as to the sort of woman that would mate with such a man . 
Mr. Van Wyk affirmed that sometimes he had more company than he wanted . 
He mentioned smilingly some of the peculiarities of his intercourse with My Sultan . 
He made his visits in force . 
felt for Captain Whalley's optimistic views the disdain of a man who had once been credulous himself . 
had taken the form of activity in retirement , because , though capable of great depth of feeling , he was energetic and essentially practical . 
But there was in that uncommon old sailor , drifting on the outskirts of his busy solitude , something that fascinated his skepticism . 
was like a delicate refinement of an upright character . 
The striking dignity of manner could be nothing else , in a man reduced to such a humble position , but the ex pression of something essentially noble in the character . 
Mr. Van Wyk was amused at it sometimes . 
They kept their respective opinions on all worldly matters . 
His other convictions Captain Whalley never intruded . 
The difference of their ages was like another bond between them . 
Once , when twitted with the un charitableness of his youth , Mr. Van Wyk , running his eye over the vast proportions of his interlocutor , re torted in friendly banter Oh . 
You'll come to my way of thinking yet . 
You'll have plenty of time . 
Don't call yourself old you look good for a round hundred . 
But he could not help his stinging incisiveness , and though moderating it by an almost affectionate smile , he added And by then you will probably consent to die from sheer disgust . 
Captain Whalley , smiling too , shook his head . 
God forbid ! He thought that perhaps on the whole he deserved something better than to die in such sentiments . 
The time of course would have to come , and he trusted to his Maker to provide a manner of going out of which he need not be ashamed . 
For the rest he hoped he would live to a hundred if need be other men had been known it would be no miracle . 
The pronounced , argumentative tone caused Mr. Van Wyk to raise his head and look at him steadily . 
Cap tain Whalley was gazing fixedly with a rapt expression , as though he had seen his Creator's favorable decree written in mysterious characters on the wall . 
He kept perfectly motionless for a few seconds , then got his vast bulk on to his feet so impetuously that Mr. Van Wyk was startled . 
Can you see this shake in the least ? His voice was low , in an awing , confident contrast with the headlong emphasis of his movements . 
This isn't to boast of it , you know . 
I am nothing , he said in his effortless strong voice , that seemed to come out as naturally as a river flows . 
He did not say much for the rest of the evening , but several times Mr. Van Wyk detected a faint smile of assurance flitting under the heavy mustache . 
Later on Captain Whalley would now and then consent to dine at the house . 
He could even be induced to drink a glass of wine . 
Don't think I am afraid of it , my good sir , he explained . 
There was a very good reason why I should give it up . 
On another occasion , leaning back at ease , he remarked , You have treated me most most humanely , my dear Mr. Van Wyk , from the very first . 
You'll admit there was some merit , Mr. Van Wyk hinted slyly . 
An associate of that excellent Massy . 
Well , well , my dear captain , I won't say a word against him . 
It would be no use your saying anything against him , Captain Whalley affirmed a little moodily . 
As I've told you before , my life my work , is necessary , not for myself alone . 
He paused , turned the glass before him right round . 
I have an only child a daughter . 
The ample downward sweep of his arm over the table seemed to suggest a small girl at a vast distance . 
I hope to see her once more before I die . 
Meantime it's enough to know that she has me sound and solid , thank God . 
You can't understand how one feels . 
Bone of my bone , flesh of my flesh the very image of my poor wife . 
Again he paused , then pronounced stoically the words , She has a hard struggle . 
And his head fell on his breast , his eyebrows remained knitted , as by an effort of meditation . 
But generally his mind seemed steeped in the serenity of boundless trust in a higher power . 
But he had learned to like him very much . 
XIII This was the reason why Mr. Sterne's confidential com munication , delivered hurriedly on the shore alongside the dark silent ship , had disturbed his equanimity . 
He shook off the appearance of numbness to return Mr. Van Wyk's unusually brisk greeting , but relapsed directly afterwards . 
To accept a pressing invitation to dinner up at the house cost him another very visible physical effort . 
Mr. Van Wyk , perplexed , folded his arms , and leaning back against the rail , with his little , black , shiny feet well out , examined him covertly . 
I've noticed of late that you are not quite yourself , old friend . 
He put an affectionate gentleness into the last two words . 
The real intimacy of their intercourse had never been so vividly expressed before . 
Tut , tut , tut ! The wicker chair creaked heavily . 
Irritable , commented Mr. Van Wyk to himself and aloud , I'll expect to see you in half an hour , then , he said negligently , moving off . 
In half an hour , Captain Whalley's rigid silvery head repeated behind him as if out of a trance . 
Amidships , below , two voices , close against the engine room , could be heard answering each other one angry and slow , the other alert . 
I tell you the beast has locked himself in to get drunk . 
Can't help it now , Mr. Massy . 
After all , a man has a right to shut himself up in his cabin in his own time . 
I heard him swear that the worry with the boilers was enough to drive any man to drink , Sterne said maliciously . 
Massy hissed out something about bursting the door in . 
Mr. Van Wyk , to avoid them , crossed in the dark to the other side of the deserted deck . 
The planking of the little wharf rattled faintly under his hasty feet . 
Mr. Van Wyk ! Mr. Van Wyk ! He walked on somebody was running on the path . 
You've forgotten to get your mail . 
Sterne , holding a bundle of papers in his hand , caught up with him . 
But , as the other continued at his elbow , Mr. Van Wyk stopped short . 
The overhanging eaves , descend ing low upon the lighted front of the bungalow , threw their black straight edged shadow into the great body of the night on that side . 
A tinkle of cutlery and a slight jingle of glasses were heard . 
Mr. Van Wyk's servants were laying the table for two on the veranda . 
I'm afraid you give me no credit whatever for my good intentions in the matter I've spoken to you about , said Sterne . 
I simply don't understand you . 
Captain Whalley is a very audacious man , but he will understand that his game is up . 
That's all that anybody need ever know of it from me . 
Believe me , I am very considerate in this , but duty is duty . 
I don't want to make a fuss . 
All I ask you , as his friend , is to tell him from me that the game's up . 
Mr. Van Wyk felt a loathsome dismay at this queer privilege of friendship . 
He would not demean himself by asking for the slightest explanation to drive the other away with contumely he did not think prudent as yet , at any rate . 
So much assurance staggered him . 
I gather , then , that this is something grave . 
Very grave , Sterne assented solemnly , delighted at having produced an effect at last . 
He was ready to add some effusive protestations of regret at the unavoida ble necessity , but Mr. Van Wyk cut him short very civilly , however . 
It looks as if the fellow had not the pluck to play his own precious game openly , he thought . 
In the face of Massy's last rebuff Sterne dared not declare his knowledge . 
His object was simply to get charge of the steamer and keep it for some time . 
The skipper could go ashore quietly , and stay with that Dutchman of his . 
This was another brilliant idea . 
He had an inborn preference for circuitous methods . 
In this particular case he desired to remain in the background as much as possible , to avoid exasperating Massy needlessly . 
No fuss ! Let it all happen naturally . 
Mr. Van Wyk all through the dinner was conscious of a sense of isolation that invades sometimes the close ness of human intercourse . 
Captain Whalley failed lamentably and obviously in his attempts to eat some thing . 
He seemed overcome by a strange absent mindedness . 
His hand would hover irresolutely , as if left without guidance by a preoccupied mind . 
Mr. Van Wyk had heard him coming up from a long way off in the profound stillness of the river side , and had noticed the irresolute character of the footfalls . 
The toe of his boot had struck the bottom stair as though he had come along mooning with his head in the air right up to the steps of the veranda . 
Had the captain of the Sofala been another sort of man he would have suspected the work of age there . 
But one glance at him was enough . 
Time after , indeed , marking him for its own had given him up to his usefulness , in which his simple faith would see a proof of Divine mercy . 
How could I contrive to warn him ? Mr. Van Wyk wondered , as if Captain Whalley had been miles and miles away , out of sight and earshot of all evil . 
He was sickened by an immense disgust of Sterne . 
To even mention his threat to a man like Whalley would be positively inde cent . 
There was something more vile and insulting in its hint than in a definite charge of crime the debasing taint of blackmailing . 
What could anyone bring against him ? he asked himself . 
This was a limpid personality . 
And for what object ? The Power that man trusted had thought fit to leave him nothing on earth that envy could lay hold of , except a bare crust of bread . 
Won't you try some of this ? he asked , pushing a dish slightly . 
Suddenly it seemed to Mr. Van Wyk that Sterne might possibly be coveting the command of the Sofala . 
His cynicism was quite startled by what looked like a proof that no man may count himself safe from his kind unless in the very abyss of misery . 
My dear captain , you make too much of a simple fact that I am not a savage . 
Mr. Van Wyk , utterly revolted by the thought of Sterne's obscure attempt , raised his voice incisively , as if the mate had been hiding somewhere within earshot . 
Any consideration I have been able to show was no more than the rightful due of a character I've learned to regard by this time with an esteem that nothing can shake . 
A slight ring of glass made him lift his eyes from the slice of pine apple he was cutting into small pieces on his plate . 
In changing his position Captain Whalley had contrived to upset an empty tumbler . 
Without looking that way , leaning sideways on his elbow , his other hand shading his brow , he groped shakily for it , then desisted . 
Van Wyk stared blankly , as if something momentous had happened all at once . 
He did not know why he should feel so startled but he forgot Sterne utterly for the moment . 
Hold ! Enough ! Captain Whalley did not change his attitude or raise his voice . 
Say no more ! I can make you no return . 
I am too poor even for that now . 
Your esteem is worth having . 
You are not a man that would stoop to deceive the poorest sort of devil on earth , or make a ship unseaworthy every time he takes her to sea . 
Where ? Why ? In the name of God ! what's this ? What ship ? I don't understand who . 
Then , in the name of God , it is I ! A ship's unsea worthy when her captain can't see . 
This was the game that was up . 
And at the same time the muffled voice of Captain Whalley passed over him I've deceived them all . 
He emerged flushed to the eyes . 
Captain Whalley , motionless under the full blaze of the lamp , shaded his face with his hand . 
And you had that courage ? Call it by what name you like . 
But you are a hu mane man a a gentleman , Mr. Van Wyk . 
You may have asked me what I had done with my conscience . 
He seemed to muse , profoundly silent , very still in his mournful pose . 
I began to tamper with it in my pride . 
You begin to see a lot of things when you are going blind . 
I could not be frank with an old chum even . 
I was not frank with Massy no , not altogether . 
I knew he took me for a wealthy sailor fool , and I let him . 
I wanted to keep up my importance because there was poor Ivy away there my daughter . 
What did I want to trade on his misery for ? I did trade on it for her . 
And now , what mercy could I expect from him ? He would trade on mine if he knew it . 
He would hunt the old fraud out , and stick to the money for a year . 
And I haven't kept a penny for myself . 
How am I going to live for a year . 
A year ! In a year there will be no sun in the sky for her father . 
A cold shudder ran down Mr. Van Wyk's back . 
And how long is it since you have . 
It was a long time before I could bring myself to believe in this this visitation . 
Captain Whalley spoke with gloomy patience from under his hand . 
He had not thought he had deserved it . 
He had begun by deceiving himself from day to day , from week to week . 
He had the Serang at hand there an old servant . 
It came on gradually , and when he could no longer deceive himself . 
His voice died out almost . 
Rather than give her up I set myself to deceive you all . 
It's incredible , whispered Mr. Van Wyk . 
Captain Whalley's appalling murmur flowed on . 
Not even the sign of God's anger could make me forget her . 
How could I forsake my child , feeling my vigor all the time the blood warm within me ? Warm as yours . 
It seems to me that , like the blinded Samson , I would find the strength to shake down a temple upon my head . 
I half believed I would . 
I've been praying for death since . 
Ha ! Presumptuous man you wanted to live . 
Something too monstrous , too impossible , even to conceive . 
Captain Whalley had not changed his attitude , that seemed to express something of shame , sorrow , and defiance . 
I have even deceived you . 
If it had not been for that word 'esteem . 
These are not the words for me . 
I would have lied to you . 
The ship is unseaworthy , I tell you . 
The policy would be invalid if it were known . 
We shall share the guilt , then . 
Nothing could make mine less , said Captain Whalley . 
He had not dared to consult a doctor the man would have perhaps asked who he was , what he was doing Massy might have heard something . 
He had lived on without any help , human or divine . 
The very prayers stuck in his throat . 
What was there to pray for ? and death seemed as far as ever . 
The world was fading before his great fear of giving himself away . 
A great incertitude enveloped him . 
The horizon was gone the sky mingled darkly with the sea . 
He was afraid to stumble inexcusably over something to say a fatal Yes or No to a question . 
The hand of God was upon him , but it could not tear him away from his child . 
And , as if in a nightmare of humiliation , every featureless man seemed an enemy . 
He let his hand fall heavily on the table . 
Mr. Van Wyk , arms down , chin on breast , with a gleam of white teeth pressing on the lower lip , meditated on Sterne's The game's up . 
The Serang of course does not know . 
Nobody , said Captain Whalley , with assurance . 
Can you keep it up to the end of the trip ? That is the last under the agree ment with Massy . 
Captain Whalley got up and stood erect , very stately , with the great white beard lying like a silver breastplate over the awful secret of his heart . 
Think of it ! Never see her any more the only human being besides myself now on earth that can re member my wife . 
She's just like her mother . 
He swayed a little , said with austere dignity I don't . 
I know only the child He has given me . 
And he began to walk . 
Mr. Van Wyk , jumping up , saw the full meaning of the rigid head , the hesitating feet , the vaguely extended hand . 
His heart was beat ing fast he moved a chair aside , and instinctively ad vanced as if to offer his arm . 
But Captain Whalley passed him by , making for the stairs quite straight . 
He could not see me at all out of his line , Van Wyk thought , with a sort of awe . 
Then going to the head of the stairs , he asked a little tremulously What is it like like a mist like . 
Captain Whalley , half way down , stopped , and turned round undismayed to answer . 
It is as if the light were ebbing out of the world . 
Have you ever watched the ebbing sea on an open stretch of sands withdrawing farther and farther away from you ? It is like this only there will be no flood to follow . 
It is as if the sun were growing smaller , the stars going out one by one . 
There can't be many left that I can see by this . 
But I haven't had the courage to look of late . 
He must have been able to make out Mr. Van Wyk , because he checked him by an authoritative gesture and a stoical I can get about alone yet . 
It was as if he had taken his line , and would accept no help from men , after having been cast out , like a pre sumptuous Titan , from his heaven . 
Mr. Van Wyk , ar rested , seemed to count the footsteps right out of ear shot . 
down there , and then after a pause go away with a strolling gait in the direc tion of the wharf . 
The bulwarks of the Sofala lying alongside the bank made a low , black wall on the undulating contour of the shore . 
Mr. Van Wyk , peering alongside , heard a muzzy boastful voice apparently jeering at a person called Prendergast . 
It mouthed abuse thickly , choked then pronounced very distinctly the word Murphy , and chuckled . 
All these sounds came from the lighted port . 
Mr. Van Wyk hesitated , stooped it was impossible to look through unless he went down into the mud . 
Sterne , he said , half aloud . 
The drunken voice within said gladly Sterne of course . 
Look at him ! Sterne , Whalley , Massy . 
Massy , Whalley , Sterne . 
You can't come over him . 
He would just love to see you starve . 
In a moment Sterne appeared , walking as noiselessly as a cat on the wharf . 
It's so jolly dark , and I had no idea you would be down to night . 
What's this horrible raving ? asked Mr. Van Wyk , as if to explain the cause of a shudder than ran over him audibly . 
Jack's broken out on a drunk . 
He will be right enough by to morrow afternoon , only Mr. Massy will keep on worrying up and down the deck . 
We had better get away . 
He muttered suggestively of a talk up at the house . 
The situation is grave beyond doubt , Mr. Van Wyk said . 
Ghost like in their white clothes they could not distinguish each others' features , and their feet made no sound on the soft earth . 
A sort of purring was heard . 
Mr. Sterne felt gratified by such a beginning . 
I thought , Mr. Van Wyk , a gentleman of your sort would see at once how awkwardly I was situated . 
Obviously his health is bad . 
I see , and he himself is well aware I assume I am speaking to a man of sense he is well aware that his legs are giving out . 
His legs ah ! Mr. Sterne was disconcerted , and then turned sulky . 
You may call it his legs if you like what I want to know is whether he intends to clear out quietly . 
That's a good one , too ! His legs ! Pooh ! Why , yes . 
Only look at the way he walks . 
Mr. Van Wyk took him up in a perfectly cool and undoubt ing tone . 
The question , however , is whether your sense of duty does not carry you too far from your true interest . 
After all , I too could do something to serve you . 
You know who I am . 
Everybody along the Straits has heard of you , sir . 
Mr. Van Wyk presumed that this meant something favorable . 
Sterne had a soft laugh at this pleasantry . 
He should think so ! To the opening statement , that the partnership agreement was to expire at the end of this very trip , he gave an attentive assent . 
One heard of nothing else on board all the blessed day long . 
As to Massy , it was no secret that he was in a jolly deep hole with these worn out boilers . 
It was whispered about that he had already tried two firms . 
Neither would have anything to do with him . 
Ship too old , and the man too well known in the place . 
Mr. Sterne's final rapid wink ing remained buried in the deep darkness sibilating with his whispers . 
For my part , I know that I would make that very stipulation myself if I had to find the money . 
And as a matter of fact I am thinking of doing so . 
It would be worth my while in many ways . 
Do you see how this would bear on the case under dis cussion ? Thank you , sir . 
I am sure you couldn't get any body that would care more for your interests . 
Well , it suits my interest that Captain Whalley should finish his time . 
I shall probably take a passage with you down the Straits . 
If that can be done , I'll be on the spot when all these changes take place , and in a position to look after YOUR interests . 
Mr. Van Wyk , I want nothing better . 
I am sure I am infinitely . 
I take it , then , that this may be done without any trouble . 
the thing is more safe than it looks . 
If anybody had told me of it I wouldn't have believed it , but I have been looking on myself . 
That old Serang has been trained up to the game . 
There's nothing the matter with his his limbs , sir . 
He's got used to doing things himself in a remarkable way . 
And let me tell you , sir , that Cap tain Whalley , poor man , is by no means useless . 
Let me explain to you , sir . 
He stiffens up that old monkey of a Malay , who knows well enough what to do . 
Why , he must have kept captain's watches in all sorts of country ships off and on for the last five and twenty years . 
Only the white man must be of the sort to put starch into them , and the captain is just the one for that . 
Why , sir , he has drilled him so well that now he needs hardly speak at all . 
That's where our poor friend would be still of use to the ship even if if he could no longer lift a foot , sir . 
Provided the Serang does not know that there's anything wrong . 
They aren't capable of finding out anything about us , sir . 
You seem to be a shrewd man , said Mr. Van Wyk in a choked mutter , as though he were feeling sick . 
You'll find me a good enough servant , sir . 
There was that faint thumping clatter . 
He stole out silently from under the shade . 
The lighted port hole shone from afar . 
His head swam with the intoxication of sudden success . 
Mr. Massy was raging before the door of the berth the drunken voice within flowed on undisturbed in the violent racket of kicks . 
Who's that aft there ? You , Sterne ? He'll drink himself into a fit of horrors . 
The chief engineer ap peared vague and big at the corner of the engine room . 
He will be good enough for duty to morrow . 
I would let him be , Mr. Massy . 
Sterne slipped away into his berth , and at once had to sit down . 
His head swam with exultation . 
He got into his bunk as if in a dream . 
A feeling of profound peace , of pacific joy , came over him . 
On deck all was quiet . 
Mr. Massy , with his ear against the door of Jack's cabin , listened critically to a deep stertorous breathing within . 
This was a dead drunk sleep . 
The bout was over tranquilized on that score , he too went in , and with slow wriggles got out of his old tweed jacket . 
It would be seen swinging on belaying pins , thrown over the heads of winches , suspended on people's very door handles for that matter . 
Was he not the owner ? But his favorite place was a hook on a wooden awning stanchion on the bridge , almost against the binnacle . 
He had even in the early days more than one tussle on that point with Captain Whalley , who desired the bridge to be kept tidy . 
He had been overawed then . 
Of late , though , he had been able to defy his partner with impunity . 
Captain Whalley never seemed to notice anything now . 
After the terrific smash all was still for a time in there , as though he had killed himself outright on the spot . 
Mr. Massy held his breath . 
At last a sleepy uneasy groan ing sigh was exhaled slowly on the other side of the bulkhead . 
I hope to goodness he's too drunk to wake up now , muttered Mr. Massy . 
The sound of a softly knowing laugh nearly drove him to despair . 
He swore violently under his breath . 
The fool would keep him awake all night now for cer tain . 
He wanted to forget his maddening troubles in sleep sometimes . 
He could detect no movements . 
He would like to see his poor old Jack starve but just you look where he has climbed to . 
He hiccoughed in a superior , leisurely manner . 
Ship owning it with the best . 
A lottery ticket you want . 
Ha ! ha ! I will give you lottery tickets , my boy . 
Let the old ship sink and the old chum starve that's right . 
He don't go wrong Massy don't . 
He's a genius that man is . 
That's the way to win your money . 
Ship and chum must go . 
The silly fool has taken it to heart , muttered Massy to himself . 
And , listening with a softened expression of face for any slight sign of returning drowsiness , he was discouraged profoundly by a burst of laughter full of joyful irony . 
Rake in the insurance money turn your back on your old chum all's well gentle man again . 
A grim stillness had come over Massy's face . 
Only his big black eyes rolled uneasily . 
And yet it was all true . 
What ? Beginning again ? He wished he wouldn't . 
But it was even so . 
The imaginative drunkard on the other side of the bulkhead shook off the deathlike stillness that after his last words had fallen on the dark ship moored to a silent shore . 
Don't you dare to say anything against George Massy , Esquire . 
When he's tired of waiting he will do away with her . 
Look out ! Down she goes chum and all . 
The voice hesitated , weary , dreamy , lost , as if dying away in a vast open space . 
Find a trick that will work . 
He's up to it never fear . 
And then even the snoring stopped , and all was still . 
Sometimes a breath of wind would enter and touch his face , a cool breath charged with the damp , fresh feel from a vast body of water . 
Rows of dwellings raised on a forest of piles lined the steely band of the river , brimful and still , with the tide at the turn . 
This was Batu Beru and the day had come . 
Mr. Massy shook himself , put on the tweed coat , and , shivering nervously as if from some great shock , made a note of the number . 
A fortunate , rare hint that . 
Yes but to pursue fortune one wanted money ready cash . 
Then he went out and prepared to descend into the engine room . 
Several small jobs had to be seen to , and Jack was lying dead drunk on the floor of his cabin , with the door locked at that . 
His gorge rose at the thought of work . 
Ay ! But if you wanted to do noth ing you had to get first a good bit of money . 
A ship won't save you . 
He was tired of waiting for some chance that would rid him at last of that ship that had turned out a curse on his life . 
XIV The deep , interminable hoot of the steam whistle had , in its grave , vibrating note , something intolerable , which sent a slight shudder down Mr. Van Wyk's back . 
It was the early afternoon the Sofala was leaving Batu Beru for Pangu , the next place of call . 
She swung in the stream , scantily attended by a few canoes , and , glid ing on the broad river , became lost to view from the Van Wyk bungalow . 
Its owner had not gone this time to see her off . 
Gen erally he came down to the wharf , exchanged a few words with the bridge while she cast off , and waved his hand to Captain Whalley at the last moment . 
This day he did not even go as far as the balustrade of the veranda . 
He couldn't see me if I did , he said to himself . 
I wonder whether he can make out the house at all . 
And this thought somehow made him feel more alone than he had ever felt for all these years . 
What was it ? six or seven ? Seven . 
There were many sorts of heartaches and troubles , and there was no place where they could not find a man out . 
And he felt ashamed , as though he had for six years behaved like a peevish boy . 
His thought followed the Sofala on her way . 
On the spur of the moment he had acted impulsively , turning to the thing most pressing . 
And what else could he have done ? Later on he should see . 
It seemed neces sary that he should come out into the world , for a time at least . 
He had money something could be ar ranged he would grudge no time , no trouble , no loss of his solitude . 
He could not see how any hitch could occur now . 
He did not seem able to get over the feeling of being fixed up at last . 
From six to eight , in the course of duty , the Serang looked alone after the ship . 
She had a clear road before her now till about three in the morning , when she would close with the Pangu group . 
At eight Mr. Sterne came out cheerily to take charge again till midnight . 
At ten he was still chir ruping and humming to himself on the bridge , and about that time Mr. Van Wyk's thought abandoned the Sofala . 
Mr. Van Wyk had fallen asleep at last . 
Massy , blocking the engine room companion , jerked himself into his tweed jacket surlily , while the second waited with a scowl . 
You came out ? You sot ! Well , what have you got to say for yourself ? He had been in charge of the engines till then . 
An incomprehensible growl answered him . 
What ? Can't you open your mouth now ? You yelp out your infernal rot loud enough when you are drunk . 
What do you mean by abusing people in that way ? you old useless boozer , you ! Can't help it . 
Don't remember anything about it . 
You dare to tell me ! What do you mean by going on a drunk like this ! Don't ask me . 
Sick of the dam' boilers you would be . 
I wish you were dead , then . 
You've made me sick of you . 
Don't you remember the uproar you made last night ? You miserable old soaker ! No I don't . 
I wonder what prevents me from kicking you out . 
What do you want here ? Relieve you . 
You've been long enough down there , George . 
Don't you George me you tippling old rascal , you ! If I were to die to morrow you would starve . 
Mr. Massy , repeated the other stolidly . 
The chief engineer looked around . 
The deck was empty as far as the taffrail . 
All the native passengers had left in Batu Beru this time , and no others had joined . 
The dial of the patent log tinkled periodically in the dark at the end of the ship . 
But Mr. Massy slapped his forehead , tottered a little , caught hold of a belaying pin at the foot of the mast . 
I shall go mad , he muttered , walking across the deck unsteadily . 
A shovel was scraping loose coal down be low a fire door clanged . 
Sterne on the bridge began whistling a new tune . 
Captain Whalley , sitting on the couch , awake and fully dressed , heard the door of his cabin open . 
He did not move in the least , waiting to recognize the voice , with an appalling strain of prudence . 
A bulkhead lamp blazed on the white paint , the crim son plush , the brown varnish of mahogany tops . 
His hands rested on his knees his hand some head with big eyebrows presented a rigid profile to the doorway . 
The expected voice spoke out at last . 
What am I to call you ? Ha ! Massy . 
The weariness of it crushed his heart and the pain of shame was almost more than he could bear without crying out . 
Is it to be 'partner' still ? You don't know what you ask . 
I know what I want . 
Massy stepped in and closed the door . 
And I am going to have a try for it with you once more . 
His whine was half persuasive , half menacing . 
For it's no manner of use to tell me that you are poor . 
You don't spend anything on yourself , that's true enough but there's another name for that . 
You think you are going to have what you want out of me for three years , and then cast me off without hearing what I think of you . 
You think I would have submitted to your airs if I had known you had only a beggarly five hundred pounds in the world . 
You ought to have told me . 
Perhaps , said Captain Whalley , bowing his head . 
And yet it has saved you . 
I have told you often enough since . 
And I don't believe you now . 
HIS bridge ! 'And I won't be a party to this and I couldn't think of doing that . 
Honest man ! And now it all comes out . 
'I am poor , and I can't . 
I have only this five hundred in the world . 
He contemplated the immobility of Captain Whalley , that seemed to present an inconquerable obstacle in his path . 
His face took a mournful cast . 
You are a hard man . 
Enough , said Captain Whalley , turning upon him . 
You shall get nothing from me , because I have noth ing of mine to give away now . 
Tell that to the marines ! Mr. Massy , going out , looked back once then the door closed , and Captain Whalley , alone , sat as still as before . 
He had nothing of his own even his past of honor , of truth , of just pride , was gone . 
All his spotless life had fallen into the abyss . 
He had said his last good by to it . 
But what belonged to HER , that he meant to save . 
He would take it to her in his own hands this last gift of a man that had lasted too long . 
And an immense and fierce impulse , the very passion of paternity , flamed up with all the unquenched vigor of his worthless life in a desire to see her face . 
He must contrive somehow not to miss a drawing . 
But what expedient could he contrive to keep himself going ? Wretched miser ! he mumbled . 
To keep the secret of the affliction and induce him to stay was a better move . 
If without means , he would be anxious to remain and that settled the question of refunding him his share . 
But probably nobody would raise such a point , and the ship was fully insured . 
He had had enough self restraint to pay up the premiums . 
But this was not all . 
He could not believe Captain Whalley to be so confoundedly destitute as not to have some more money put away somewhere . 
If he , Massy , could get hold of it , that would pay for the boilers , and every thing went on as before . 
And if she got lost in the end , so much the better . 
He hated her he loathed the troubles that took his mind off the chances of fortune . 
He wished her at the bottom of the sea , and the in surance money in his pocket . 
And as , baffled , he left Captain Whalley's cabin , he enveloped in the same hatred the ship with the worn out boilers and the man with the dimmed eyes . 
The old fraud ! He longed to kick him out . 
Time enough for that when he liked . 
There was a fearful new thought put into his head . 
Wasn't he up to it after all ? How that beast Jack had raved ! Find a safe trick to get rid of her . 
Well , Jack was not so far wrong . 
A very clever trick had occurred to him . 
Not everybody would dare but he was Massy , and he was up to it ! Six bells were struck on deck . 
Eleven ! He drank a glass of water , and sat down for ten minutes or so to calm himself . 
Then he got out of his chest a small bull's eye lantern of his own and lit it . 
A complete and im perious blackness pervaded that Capharnaum of for gotten things . 
A small shaft of light from Mr. Massy's bull's eye fell slanting right through it . 
, and , squatting before the scrap heap , began to pack his pockets with pieces of iron . 
He packed his side pockets till they bulged , the breast pocket , the pockets inside . 
He turned over the pieces . 
A small mist of powdered rust began to rise about his busy hands . 
Mr. Massy knew some thing of the scientific basis of his clever trick . 
He slipped out swiftly two strides sufficed and in his cabin he perceived that his hands were all red red with rust . 
It disconcerted him , as though he had found them covered with blood he looked himself over hastily . 
Why , his trowsers too ! He had been rubbing his rusty palms on his legs . 
He tore off the waistband button in his haste , brushed his coat , washed his hands . 
Then the air of guilt left him , and he sat down to wait . 
He sat bolt upright and weighted with iron in his chair . 
He looked very dull too , sitting idle there , and his yellow face , with motionless black eyes , had something passive and sad in its quiet ness . 
When he heard eight bells struck above his head , he rose and made ready to go out . 
With the last stroke of the bell the Serang appeared noiselessly on the bridge to relieve the mate . 
Sterne overflowed with good nature , since he had nothing more to desire . 
Got your eyes well open yet , Serang ? It's middling dark I'll wait till you get your sight properly . 
You'll have to keep a good look out ahead for land , about half past three . 
It's fairly clear , though . 
You have looked in on the captain as you came along eh ? He knows the time ? Well , then , I am off . 
At the foot of the ladder he stood aside for the captain . 
He watched him go up with an even , certain tread , and remained thoughtful for a moment . 
It's funny , he said to himself , but you can never tell whether that man has seen you or not . 
He might have heard me breathe this time . 
He was a wonderful man when all was said and done . 
They said he had had a name in his day . 
Mr. Sterne was a shrewd guesser . 
This necessity of every moment brought home to Cap tain Whalley's heart the humiliation of his falsehood . 
He had drifted into it from paternal love , from in credulity , from boundless trust in divine justice meted out to men's feelings on this earth . 
He would give his poor Ivy the benefit of another month's work perhaps the affliction was only temporary . 
Surely God would not rob his child of his power to help , and cast him naked into a night without end . 
He had caught at every hope and when the evidence of his misfortune was stronger than hope , he tried not to believe the mani fest thing . 
In the steadily darkening universe a sinister clearness fell upon his ideas . 
Sometimes he was seized with a sudden vertigo and an overwhelming terror and then the image of his daughter appeared . 
Her , too , he had never seen so clearly before . 
Was it possible that he should ever be unable to do anything whatever for her ? Nothing . 
And not see her any more ? Never . 
Why ? The punishment was too great for a little pre sumption , for a little pride . 
Afterwards what ? The idea of suicide was revolting to the vigor of his manhood . 
He had prayed for death till the prayers had stuck in his throat . 
All the days of his life he had prayed for daily bread , and not to be led into tempta tion , in a childlike humility of spirit . 
Did words mean anything ? Whence did the gift of speech come ? The violent beating of his heart reverberated in his head seemed to shake his brain to pieces . 
He sat down heavily in the deck chair to keep the pre tense of his watch . 
All the nights were dark now . 
Serang , he said , half aloud . 
There are clouds on the sky ? There are , Tuan . 
Let her be steered straight . 
She is going north , Tuan . 
Captain Whalley recog nized Massy's footfalls on the bridge . 
The engineer walked over to port and returned , pass ing behind the chair several times . 
Captain Whalley detected an unusual character as of prudent care in this prowling . 
The near presence of that man brought with it always a recrudescence of moral suffering for Captain Whalley . 
After all , he had done nothing but good to the poor devil . 
There was also a sense of danger the necessity of a greater care . 
Massy stopped and said So you still say you must go ? I must indeed . 
And you couldn't at least leave the money for a term of years ? Impossible . 
Can't trust it with me without your care , eh ? Captain Whalley remained silent . 
Massy sighed deeply over the back of the chair . 
It would just do to save me , he said in a tremulous voice . 
The chief engineer took off his coat with careful movements , and proceeded to feel for the brass hook screwed into the wooden stanchion . 
For this purpose he placed himself right in front of the binnacle , thus hid ing completely the compass card from the quarter master at the wheel . 
Tuan ! the lascar at last mur mured softly , meaning to let the white man know that he could not see to steer . 
Mr. Massy had accomplished his purpose . 
The coat was hanging from the nail , within six inches of the binnacle . 
He had never known her get away like this before . 
With a slight grunt of astonishment he turned the wheel hastily to bring her head back north , which was the course . 
He said , Take better care . 
Then everything settled to the usual quiet on the bridge . 
A gentle stillness as vast as the world seemed to wait upon her path , enveloping her lovingly in a su preme caress . 
Mr. Massy thought there could be no better night for an arranged shipwreck . 
Run up high and dry on one of the reefs east of Pangu wait for daylight hole in the bottom out boats Pangu Bay same evening . 
, and shake it upside down over the side , or even fling it into the sea . 
Who could guess ? Coat been seen hanging there from that hook hundreds of times . 
Nevertheless , when he sat down on the lower step of the bridge ladder his knees knocked together a little . 
The waiting part was the worst of it . 
At times he would begin to pant quickly , as though he had been running , and then breathe largely , swelling with the intimate sense of a mastered fate . 
Now and then he would hear the shuffle of the Serang's bare feet up there quiet , low voices would exchange a few words , and lapse almost at once into silence . 
Tell me directly you see any land , Serang . 
No , not yet , Captain Whalley would agree . 
The ship had been the best friend of his decline . 
He had sent all the money he had made by and in the Sofala to his daughter . 
His thought lingered on the name . 
He had been starved of love too long . 
He imagined her tender ness . 
The Serang had been peering forward , and now and then glancing at the chair . 
He fidgeted restlessly , and suddenly burst out close to Captain Whalley Tuan , do you see anything of the land ? The alarmed voice brought Captain Whalley to his feet at once . 
He ! See ! And at the question , the curse of his blindness seemed to fall on him with a hundredfold force . 
What's the time ? he cried . 
Half past three , Tuan . 
Mr. Massy , awakened by the sudden sound of talking from a short doze on the lowest step , wondered why he was there . 
Ah ! A faintness came over him . 
It is one thing to sow the seed of an accident and another to see the monstrous fruit hanging over your head ready to fall in the sound of agitated voices . 
There's no danger , he muttered thickly . 
The horror of incertitude had seized upon Captain Whalley , the miserable mistrust of men , of things of the very earth . 
He had steered that very course thirty six times by the same compass if anything was certain in this world it was its absolute , unerring correctness . 
Then what had happened ? Did the Serang lie ? Why lie ? Why ? Was he going blind too ? Is there a mist ? Look low on the water . 
Low down , I say . 
Tuan , there's no mist . 
Captain Whalley steadied the trembling of his limbs by an effort . 
Should he stop the engines at once and give himself away . 
A gust of irresolution swayed all sorts of bizarre notions in his mind . 
The unusual had come , and he was not fit to deal with it . 
In this passage of inexpressible anguish he saw her face the face of a young girl with an amazing strength of illusion . 
No , he must not give himself away after having gone so far for her sake . 
You steered the course ? You made it ? Speak the truth . 
Captain Whalley strode to the binnacle , which to him made such a dim spot of light in an infinity of shape less shadow . 
By bending his face right down to the glass he had been able before . 
Having to stoop so low , he put out , instinctively , his arm to where he knew there was a stanchion to steady himself against . 
His hand closed on something that was not wood but cloth . 
The slight pull adding to the weight , the loop broke , and Mr. Massy's coat falling , struck the deck heavily with a dull thump , accompanied by a lot of clicks . 
What's this ? Captain Whalley fell on his knees , with groping hands extended in a frank gesture of blindness . 
They trem bled , these hands feeling for the truth . 
Wreck her ! His ship . 
Jump and stop her ! he roared out in a voice not his own . 
It was low water along the north side of the strait . 
Mr. Massy had not reckoned on that . 
Instead of run ning aground for half her length , the Sofala butted the sheer ridge of a stone reef which would have been awash at high water . 
This made the shock absolutely terrific . 
Everybody in the ship that was standing was thrown down headlong the shaken rigging made a great rattling to the very trucks . 
Then , after having hit , she rebounded , hit the second time the very same spot like a battering ram . 
had set the engines astern . 
The voice of the Serang pronounced distinctly above the confused murmurs Eight fathom . 
He had heaved the lead . 
You know it , sir ? Then she will never get out again . 
She will be sunk in five minutes . 
Even one will save you all in this calm . 
The Chinaman stokers went in a disorderly rush for the port boats . 
Nobody tried to check them . 
The Malays , after a moment of confusion , became quiet , and Mr. Sterne showed a good countenance . 
Captain Whalley had not moved . 
His thoughts were darker than this night in which he had lost his first ship . 
He made me lose a ship . 
Another tall figure standing before him amongst the litter of the smash on the bridge whispered insanely Say nothing of it . 
Captain Whalley heard the chattering of his teeth . 
Throw it down and come along , urged the chatter ing voice . 
B b b b boat ! You will get fifteen years for this . 
Mr. Massy had lost his voice . 
His speech was a mere dry rustling in his throat . 
Massy made an awful effort , and in a strange , half choked utterance You blind devil ! It's you that drove me to it . 
Captain Whalley , hugging the coat to his breast , made no sound . 
The light had ebbed for ever from the world let everything go . 
But this man should not escape scot free . 
Sterne's voice commanded Lower away ! The blocks rattled . 
Now then , he cried , over with you . 
You , Jack , here . 
Aren't you ? You've nothing but the five hundred pounds . 
Well , you have nothing at all now . 
The ship's lost , and the insurance won't be paid . 
Captain Whalley did not move . 
True ! Ivy's money ! Gone in this wreck . 
Again he had a flash of insight . 
He was indeed at the end of his tether . 
Urgent voices cried out together alongside . 
Massy did not seem able to tear himself away from the bridge . 
He chattered and hissed despairingly Give it up to me ! Give it up ! No , said Captain Whalley I could not give it up . 
Don't wait , man , if you want to live . 
She's settling down by the head fast . 
No I shall keep it , but I shall stay on board . 
Massy did not seem to understand but the love of life , awakened suddenly , drove him away from the bridge . 
Captain Whalley laid the coat down , and stumbled amongst the heaps of wreckage to the side . 
Is Mr. Massy in with you ? he called out into the night . 
Sterne from the boat shouted Yes we've got him . 
It's madness to stay longer . 
Captain Whalley felt along the rail carefully , and , without a word , cast off the painter . 
They were ex pecting him still down there . 
They were waiting , till a voice suddenly exclaimed We are adrift ! Shove off ! Captain Whalley ! Leap ! . 
leap ! You can swim . 
But after all , for Ivy he had carried his point , walking in his darkness to the very verge of a crime . 
God had not listened to his prayers . 
The light had finished ebbing out of the world not a glimmer . 
It was a dark waste but it was unseemly that a Whalley who had gone so far to carry a point should continue to live . 
He must pay the price . 
Leap as far as you can , sir we will pick you up . 
They did not hear him answer . 
But their shouting seemed to remind him of something . 
He groped his way back , and sought for Mr. Massy's coat . 
He would put all these pieces of iron into his own pockets . 
They , looking from the boat , saw the Sofala , a black mass upon a black sea , lying still at an appalling cant . 
No sound came from her . 
When the Sofala failed to come back to Batu Beru at the proper time , Mr. Van Wyk understood at once that he would never see her any more . 
It had not been a very remarkable or interesting case , except for the fact that the captain had gone down with his sinking ship . 
From afar Mr. Van Wyk saw Sterne blink straight at him and raise his hand to his hat . 
The inquiry had exonerated everybody from all blame . 
The loss of the ship was put down to an un usual set of the current . 
Indeed , it could not have been anything else there was no other way to account for the ship being set seven miles to the eastward of her position during the middle watch . 
A piece of bad luck for me , sir . 
Sterne passed his tongue on his lips , and glanced aside . 
I lost the advantage of being employed by you , sir . 
I can never be sorry enough . 
But here it is one man's poison , another man's meat . 
This could not have been handier for Mr. Massy if he had arranged that ship wreck himself . 
The most timely total loss I've ever heard of . 
What became of that Massy ? asked Mr. Van Wyk . 
I gave him chase right aboard , and he told me then he was going to make his fortune dead sure in Manilla . 
I could go to the devil for all he cared . 
And yet he as good as promised to give me the command if I didn't talk too much . 
Why should I ? I mean to get on , but the dead aren't in my way , said Sterne . 
His eyelids were beating rapidly , then drooped for an instant . 
Besides , sir , it would have been an awkward business . 
You made me hold my tongue just a bit too long . 
Do you know how it was that Captain Whalley re mained on board ? Did he really refuse to leave ? Come now ! Or was it perhaps an accidental . 
? Nothing ! Sterne interrupted with energy . 
I tell you I yelled for him to leap overboard . 
He simply MUST have cast off the painter of the boat himself . 
We all yelled to him that is , Jack and I. He wouldn't even answer us . 
The ship was as silent as a grave to the last . 
Then the boilers fetched away , and down she went . 
Accident ! Not it ! The game was up , sir , I tell you . 
This was all that Sterne had to say . 
Extraordinary old man , he said . 
He came into my office from nowhere in particular as you may say , with his five hundred pounds to place , and that engineer fellow following him anxiously . 
And now he is gone out a little inexplicably , just as he came . 
I could never understand him quite . 
There was no mystery at all about that Massy , eh ? I wonder whether Whalley re fused to leave the ship . 
It would have been foolish . 
He was blameless , as the court found . 
Mr. Van Wyk had known him well , he said , and he could not believe in suicide . 
Such an act would not have been in character with what he knew of the man . 
It is my opinion , too , the lawyer agreed . 
The gen eral theory was that the captain had remained too long on board trying to save something of importance . 
Per haps the chart which would clear him , or else something of value in his cabin . 
The painter of the boat had come adrift of itself it was supposed . 
Still it was nothing very un usual , especially in a man of his age . 
Mr. Van Wyk shook his head . 
Captain Whalley looked good for a hundred years . 
Perfectly true , assented the lawyer . 
The old fellow looked as though he had come into the world full grown and with that long beard . 
I could never , some how , imagine him either younger or older don't you know . 
There was a sense of physical power about that man too . 
And perhaps that was the secret of that some thing peculiar in his person which struck everybody who came in contact with him . 
He looked indestructible by any ordinary means that put an end to the rest of us . 
His deliberate , stately courtesy of manner was full of significance . 
It was as though he were certain of hav ing plenty of time for everything . 
Yes , there was something indestructible about him and the way he talked sometimes you might have thought he believed it himself . 
When he called on me last with that letter he wanted me to take charge of , he was not depressed at all . 
Perhaps a shade more deliberate in his talk and manner . 
Not depressed in the least . 
Had he a pre sentiment , I wonder ? Perhaps ! Still it seems a misera ble end for such a striking figure . 
Know anything of him ? Heaps of money , answered the bank manager . 
I hear he's going home by the next mail to form a com pany to take over his estates . 
Another tobacco district thrown open . 
He's wise , I think . 
These good times won't last for ever . 
In the southern hemisphere Captain Whalley's daugh ter had no presentiment of evil when she opened the envelope addressed to her in the lawyer's handwriting . 
The house was still , and the grayness of a cloudy day lay against the panes of three lofty windows . 
She tore it open , snatched out the inclosure . 
My dearest child , it said , I am writing this while I am able yet to write legibly . 
I am trying hard to save for you all the money that is left I have only kept it to serve you better . 
It shall not be lost it shall not be touched . 
Of what I have earned I have kept nothing back till now . 
For the future , if I live , I must keep back some a little to bring me to you . 
I must come to you . 
I must see you once more . 
It is hard to believe that you will ever look on these lines . 
God seems to have forgotten me . 
I want to see you and yet death would be a greater favor . 
If you ever read these words , I charge you to begin by thank ing a God merciful at last , for I shall be dead then , and it will be well . 
My dear , I am at the end of my tether . 
The next paragraph began with the words My sight is going . 
She read no more that day . 
The hand holding up the paper to her eyes fell slowly , and her slender figure in a plain black dress walked rigidly to the window . 
Her eyes were dry no cry of sorrow or whisper of thanks went up to heaven from her lips . 
Life had been too hard , for all the efforts of his love . 
It had silenced her emotions . 
But for the first time in all these years its sting had departed , the carking care of poverty , the meanness of a hard struggle for bread . 
Gone ! Was it possible ? My God , was it possi ble ! The blow had come softened by the spaces of the earth , by the years of absence . 
There had been whole days when she had not thought of him at all had no time . 
But she had loved him , she felt she had loved him , after all . 
