Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE GAMING TABLE ITS VOTARIES AND VICTIMS , In all Times and Countries , especially in England and in France . 
BY ANDREW STEINMETZ , ESQ . 
, OF THE MIDDLE TEMPLE , BARRISTER AT LAW FIRST CLASS EXTRA CERTIFICATE SCHOOL OF MUSKETRY , HYTHE LATE OFFICER INSTRUCTOR MUSKETRY , THE QUEENS OWN LIGHT INFANTRY MILITIA . 
AUTHOR OF THE HISTORY OF THE JESUITS , JAPAN AND HER PEOPLE , THE ROMANCE OF DUELLING , c . 
I. TO HIS GRACE The Duke of Wellington , K. G. THIS WORK IS DEDICATED , WITH PERMISSION , BY HIS GRACE'S MOST DEVOTED SERVANT THE AUTHOR . 
To the readers of the present generation much of this book will , doubtless , seem incredible . 
Still it is a book of facts a section of our social history , which is , I think , worth writing , and deserving of meditation . 
Forty or fifty years ago that is , within the memory of many a living man gambling was the rage' in England , especially in the metropolis . 
Have not the gambling propensities of our forefathers influenced the present generation ? . 
No doubt gambling , in the sense treated of in this book , has ceased in England . 
The vice is not barefaced . 
It slinks and skulks away into corners and holes , like a poisoned rat . 
was , lately , something that rang through and startled the entire nation . 
We gamble in the funds . 
In fact , we may not be a jot better morally than our forefathers . 
Since the fleet has been there another gambling house has been opened , and is filled every evening with young officers , many of whom are under years of age . 
I will relate one incident that came under my personal notice . 
Hoping that this may be of some use in stopping the gambling among the younger officers , I remain , yours respectfully , AN OFFICER . 
In conclusion , I have contemplated the passion of gaming in all its bearings , as will be evident from the range of subjects indicated by the table of contents and index . 
hundreds of volumes for entertaining , amusing , curious , or instructive matter . 
Without deprecating criticism on my labours , perhaps I may state that these researches have probably terminated my career as an author . 
CHAPTER I. THE UNIVERSAL PASSION OF GAMING OR , GAMING ALL THE WORLD OVER . 
A very apt allegory has been imagined as the origin of Gaming . 
They were united but the matrimony was not holy , and the result of the union was a misfeatured child named Gaming . 
From the moment of her birth this wayward thing could only be pleased by cards , dice , or counters . 
She was not without fascinations , and many were her admirers . 
As she grew up she was courted by all the gay and extravagant of both sexes , for she was of neither sex , and yet combining the attractions of each . 
These became their mother's darlings , nursed by her with constant care and tenderness , and her perpetual companions . 
The Goddess Fortune ever had an eye on her promising daughter Gaming and endowed her with splendid residences , in the most conspicuous streets , near the palaces of kings . 
They were magnificently designed and elegantly furnished . 
Religion , morals , virtue , all give way , And conscience dies , the prostitute of play . 
Eternity ne'er steals one thought between , Till suicide completes the fatal scene . 
It appeared originally , I think , in the Harleian Miscellany . 
I have taken the liberty to re touch it here and there , with the view to improvement . 
The Hindoo Code a promulgation of very high antiquity denounces gambling , which proves that there were desperate gamesters among the Hindoos in the earliest times . 
Men gamed , too , it would appear , after the example set them by the gods , who had gamesters among them . 
But not only did the gods play among themselves on Olympus , but they gambled with mortals . 
The Chinese have in all times , we suppose , had cards hence the absurdity of the notion that they were invented' for the amusement of Charles VI . 
of France , in his lucid intervals , as is constantly asserted in every collection of historic facts . 
The Chinese invented cards , as they invented almost everything else that administers to our social and domestic comfort . 
Observations on Cards , by Mr Gough , in Archaeologia , vol . 
The Asiatic gambler is desperate . 
The Malayan , however , does not always tamely submit to this last stroke of fortune . 
Indeed , they play night and day until they have lost all they are worth , and then they usually go and hang themselves . 
If we turn our course northward , and penetrate the regions of ice perpetual , we find that the driven snow cannot effectually quench the flames of gambling . 
They glow amid the regions of the frozen pole . 
If we descend thence into the Western hemisphere , we find that the passion for gambling forms a distinguishing feature in the character of all the rude natives of the American continent . 
, their apparel , and at length their personal liberty , on games of chance . 
There is one thing , however , which must be recorded to their credit and to our shame . 
When they have lost their all , they do not follow the example of our refined gamesters . 
They neither murmur nor repine . 
Not a fretful word escapes them . 
They bear the frowns of fortune with a philosophic composure . 
There is no doubt , then , that this propensity is part and parcel of the unsophisticated savage . 
Take the grand prototypes of Britons , the Romans of old . 
That gamesters they were ! And how gambling recruited the ranks of the desperadoes who gave them insurrectionary trouble ! Catiline's army of scoundrels , for instance . 
Horace , Juvenal , Persius , Cicero , and other writers , attest the fact of Roman gambling most eloquently , most indignantly . 
When I have a petition to prefer , says one of them , I am easily beaten in the game that I may win my cause . 
He went to him , as in consultation , agreed with the man's arguments , and at once bared his arm for the operation . 
On the point of departure his lordship edged' in the question about the vote for his friend , which was , of course , gushingly promised and given . 
Sed ego aliquid obsecraturus facile vincor et mihi tabula perit ut causa salvetur . 
Now , Tacitus describes the ancient stout and valiant Germans as making gaming with a die a very serious occupation of their sober hours . 
At Naples and other places in Italy , at least in former times , the boatmen used thus to stake their liberty for a certain number of years . 
According to Hyde , the Indians stake their fingers and cut them off themselves to pay the debt of honour . 
The two held a joint empire of ruin and desolation over their devoted victims . 
A king of France set the ruinous example Henry IV . 
The money that Henry IV . 
lost at play would have covered great public expenses . 
But the Spaniards have always been , of all nations , the most addicted to gambling . 
This was in the middle of the seventeenth century , but I have no doubt it is true at the present moment . 
If we can believe Voltaire , the Spaniards were formerly very generous in their gaming . 
The grandees of Spain , he says , had a generous ostentation this was to divide the money won at play among all the bystanders , of whatever condition . 
Montrefor relates that when the Duke of Lerma , the Spanish minister , entertained Gaston , brother of Louis XIII . 
, with all his retinue in the Netherlands , he displayed a magnificence of an extraordinary kind . 
The prime minister , with whom Gaston spent several days , used to put two thousand louis d'ors on a large gaming table after dinner . 
With this money Gaston's attendants and even the prince himself sat down to play . 
It is probable , however , that Voltaire extended a single instance or two into a general habit or custom . 
That writer always preferred to deal with the splendid and the marvellous rather than with plain matter of fact . 
There can be little doubt that the Spaniards pursued gaming in the vulgar fashion , just as other people . 
After the bull feast I was invited to pass the evening at the hotel of a lady , who had a public card assembly . 
This vile method of subsisting on the folly of mankind is confined in Spain to the nobility . 
None but women of quality are permitted to hold banks , and there are many whose faro banks bring them in a clear income of a thousand guineas a year . 
The lady to whom I was introduced is an old countess , who has lived nearly thirty years on the profits of the card tables in her house . 
She goes to court , visits people of the first fashion , and is received with as much respect and veneration as if she exercised the most sacred functions of a divine profession . 
Many widows of great men keep gaming houses and live splendidly on the vices of mankind . 
If you be not disposed to play , be either a sharper or a dupe , you cannot be admitted a second time to their assemblies . 
My Spanish conductor , unfortunately for himself , had not the same apology . 
He played and lost his money two circumstances which constantly follow in these houses . 
While my friend was thus playing THE FOOL , I attentively watched the countenance and motions of the lady of the house . 
In short , it is hardly possible to see good company at Madrid unless you resolve to leave a purse of gold at the card assemblies of their nobility . 
Observations in a Tour through Spain . 
We are assured that this state of things is by no means obsolete' in Spain , even at the present time . 
In England gambling prevailed during the reign of Henry VIII . 
Writing on the day when James II . 
which this day se'nnight I was witness of , the king sitting and toying with his concubines , Portsmouth , Cleaveland , and Mazarine , c . 
, under the general appellation of rooks and in this particular it serves as a nursery for Tyburn , for every year some of this gang march thither . 
Another gentleman , stark blind , I have seen play at Hazard , and surely that must be by the ear too . 
at the second meeting , to which they will be sure to invite you . 
It appears that false dice were originally made at Fulham hence so called , high and low fulhams the high ones were the numbers , , . 
The clochier in Paul's Churchyard a bell house , four square , builded of stone , with four bells these were called Jesus Bells . 
The common speech then was that he did set L upon a cast at dice against it , and so won the said clochier and bells of the king . 
And then causing the bells to be broken as they hung , the rest was pulled down , and broken also . 
This man was afterwards executed on Tower Hill , for matters concerning the Duke of Somerset , in the year , the th of Edward VI . 
Sir Arthur Smithhouse is yet fresh in memory . 
He had a fair estate , which in a few years he so lost at play , that he died in great want and penury . 
I am sure it is rara avis , for if you once break bulk , as they phrase it , you are in again for all . 
The sequel will show the increase of gambling in our country during the subsequent reigns , up to a recent period . 
Thus , then , the passion of gaming is , and has ever been , universal . 
Indolence and want of employment vacuity , as Dr Johnson would call it is the cause of the passion . 
It arises from a want of habitual employment in some material and regular line of conduct . 
Certain it is that the passion for gambling easily gets deeply rooted , and that it cannot be easily eradicated . 
Wealth is the general centre of inclination . 
Whatever is the ultimate design , the immediate care is to be rich . 
No desire can be formed which riches do not assist to gratify . 
They may be considered as the elementary principles of pleasure , which may be combined with endless diversity . 
There are nearer ways to profit than up the steeps of labour . 
It is observed of gold by an old epigrammatist , that to have is to be in fear and to want it is to be in sorrow . 
There is no condition which is not disquieted either with the care of gaining or keeping money . 
No nation has exceeded ours in the pursuit of gaming . 
In former times and yet not more than or years ago the passion for play was predominant among the highest classes . 
The gentleman was a slave to its indulgence the merchant and the mechanic were the dupes of its imaginary prospects it engrossed the citizen and occupied the rustic . 
Town and country became a prey to its despotism . 
There was scarcely an obscure village to be found wherein this bewitching basilisk did not exercise its powers of fascination and destruction . 
Gaming in England became rather a science than an amusement of social intercourse . 
Of course , in spite of all calculations , there were miserable failures frightful losses . 
Well might the Emperor Justinian exclaim , Can we call PLAY that which causes crime ? Quis enim ludos appellet eos , ex quibus crimina oriuntur ? De Concept . 
GAMBLING AMONG THE ANCIENT HINDOOS . 
A HINDOO LEGEND AND ITS MODERN PARALLEL . 
The History of India from the Earliest Ages . 
I. The Vedic Period and the Maha Bharata . 
As Mr Wheeler observes , the specialties of Hindoo gambling are worthy of some attention . 
But gambling amongst the Hindoos does not appear to have been altogether dependent upon chance . 
The grandeur of the Pandavas excited the jealousy of Duryodhana , and revived the old feud between the Kauravas and the former . 
And Vidura went his way to the city of the Pandavas , and was received by them with every sign of attention and respect . 
And Yudhishthira inquired whether his kinsfolk and friends at Hastinapur were all well in health , and Vidura replied , They are all well . 
But Yudhishthira remembered that the invitation of the Maharaja was equal to the command of a father , and that no true Kshatriya could refuse a challenge either to war or play . 
So Yudhishthira accepted the invitation , and gave commandment that on the appointed day his brethren , and their mother , and their joint wife should accompany him to the city of Hastinapur . 
When the day arrived for the departure of the Pandavas they took their mother Kunti , and their joint wife Draupadi , and journeyed from Indra prastha to the city of Hastinapur . 
And when the Pandavas had done reverence to the Maharaja , and respectfully saluted all present , they paid a visit to their aunt Gandhari , and did her reverence likewise . 
And the wives of the Kauravas were much surprised when they beheld the beauty and fine raiment of Draupadi and they were very jealous of their kinswoman . 
But Yudhishthira was disinclined , and replied I will not play excepting upon fair terms but if you will pledge yourself to throw without artifice or deceit , I will accept your challenge . 
Sakuni said , If you are so fearful of losing , you had better not play at all . 
At this point in the narrative it may be desirable to pause , and endeavour to obtain a picture of the scene . 
The Chieftains present seem to have sat upon the ground , and watched the game . 
A lakh is a hundred thousand , and a crore is a hundred lakhs , or ten millions . 
The exceptional clause in favour of the Brahmans is very significant . 
Hence the insertion of the clause . 
Then Sakuni said to him You have done a bad act , Yudhishthira , in gaming away yourself and becoming a slave . 
But now , stake your wife , Draupadi , and if you win the game you will again be free . 
Then Sakuni threw the dice , and won Draupadi for Duryodhana . 
Then all in that assembly were in great consternation , and the Chieftains gazed upon one another without speaking a word . 
And Duryodhana said to his uncle Vidura Go now and bring Draupadi hither , and bid her sweep the rooms . 
Vidura then turned to the assembly and said Take no heed to the words of Duryodhana , for he has lost his senses this day . 
Duryodhana then said A curse be upon this Vidura , who will do nothing that I desire him . 
After this Duryodhana called one of his servants , and desired him to go to the lodgings of the Pandavas , and bring Draupadi into the pavilion . 
So the man returned to the assembly , and put the question to Yudhishthira but Yudhishthira hung down his head with shame , and answered not a word . 
And the man essayed to go , but he beheld the wrathful countenance of Bhima and he was sore afraid , and he refused to go , and remained where he was . 
Draupadi replied The death of the Kauravas is not far distant , since they can do such deeds as these . 
And Duhsasana hastened after her , and seized her by her hair , which was very dark and long , and dragged her by main force into the pavilion before all the Chieftains . 
Duhsasana then broke in and spoke foul language to her , and used her rudely , so that her veil came off in his hands . 
So the Pandavas made haste with their wife Draupadi , and departed out of the city of Hastinapur . 
So they sat down again to play , and Sakuni had a set of cheating dice as before , and with them he won the game . 
When Duhsasana saw that Sakuni had won the game , he danced about for joy and he cried out Now is established the Raj of Duryodhana . 
But Bhima said , Be not elated with joy , but remember my words The day will come when I will drink your blood , or I am not the son of Kunti . 
Such was the great gambling match at Hastinapur in the heroic age of India . 
The concluding scene of the drama forms an impressive figure in the mind of the Hindoo . 
The avenging battle subsequently ensued . 
This staking of wives by gamblers is a curious subject . 
The practice may be said to have been universal , having furnished cases among civilized as well as barbarous nations . 
But this is an old thing . 
A Captain Disbrowe of the king's body guard lost a large sum of money to a notorious debauchee , a gambler and bully , named Sir Paul Parravicin . 
I do not understand you , Sir Paul , returned Disbrowe , with a look of indignant surprise . 
To be plain , then , replied Parravicin , I have won from you two hundred pounds all you possess . 
You are a ruined man , and as such , will run any hazard to retrieve your losses . 
I give you a last chance . 
I will stake all my winnings nay , double the amount against your wife . 
You have a key of the house you inhabit , by which you admit yourself at all hours so at least I am informed . 
If I win , that key shall be mine . 
I will take my chance of the rest . 
Do you understand me now ? I do , replied the young man , with concentrated fury . 
I understand that you are a villain . 
You have robbed me of my money , and would rob me of my honour . 
These are harsh words , sir , replied the knight calmly but let them pass . 
We will play first , and fight afterwards . 
But you refuse my challenge ? It is false ! replied Disbrowe , fiercely , I accept it . 
And producing a key , he threw it on the table . 
My life is , in truth , set on the die , he added , with a desperate look for if I lose , I will not survive my shame . 
You will not forget our terms , observed Parravicin . 
I am to be your representative to night . 
You can return home to morrow . 
Throw , sir , throw , cried the young man , fiercely . 
Pardon me , replied the knight the first cast is with you . 
A single main decides it . 
Be it so , returned Disbrowe , seizing the bow . 
And as he shook the dice with a frenzied air , the bystanders drew near the table to watch the result . 
Twelve ! cried Disbrowe , as he removed the box . 
My honour is saved ! My fortune retrieved Huzza ! Not so fast , returned Parravicin , shaking the box in his turn . 
You were a little hasty , he added , uncovering the dice . 
This is to decide , cried the young officer , rattling the dice , Six ! Parravicin smiled , took the box , and threw TEN . 
Perdition ! ejaculated Disbrowe , striking his brow with his clenched hand . 
What devil tempted me to my undoing ? . 
My wife trusted to this profligate ! . 
Horror ! It must not be ! It is too late to retract , replied Parravicin , taking up the key , and turning with a triumphant look to his friends . 
Disbrowe noticed the smile , and , stung beyond endurance , drew his sword , and called to the knight to defend himself . 
In an instant passes were exchanged . 
But the conflict was brief . 
Fortune , as before , declared herself in favour of Parravicin . 
He disarmed his assailant , who rushed out of the room , uttering the wildest ejaculations of rage and despair . 
The winner of the key proceeded at once to use . 
He gained admittance to the captain's house , and found his way to the chamber of his wife , who was then in bed . 
At this announcement Mrs Disbrowe uttered a loud scream , and fell back in the bed . 
Parravicin waited for a moment but not hearing her move , brought the lamp to see what was the matter . 
She had fainted , and was lying across the pillow , with her night dress partly open , so as to expose her neck and shoulders . 
The knight was at first ravished with her beauty but his countenance suddenly fell , and an expression of horror and alarm took possession of it . 
He appeared rooted to the spot , and instead of attempting to render her any assistance , remained with his gaze fixed upon her neck . 
Rousing himself at length , he rushed out of the room , hurried down stairs , and without pausing for a moment , threw open the street door . 
As he issued from it his throat was forcibly griped , and the point of a sword was placed at his breast . 
It was the desperate husband , who was waiting to avenge his wife's honour . 
You are in my power , villain , cried Disbrowe , and shall not escape my vengeance . 
You are already avenged , replied Parravicin , shaking off his assailant YOUR WIFE HAS THE PLAGUE . 
The profligate had been scared away by the sight of the plague spot' on the neck of the unfortunate lady . 
The husband entered and found his way to his wife's chamber . 
He told me you were false that you loved another and had abandoned me , exclaimed the frantic wife . 
He lied ! shouted Disbrowe , in a voice of uncontrollable fury . 
But I have never been faithless to you never . 
Faithless or not , replied his wife bitterly , it is plain you value me less than play , or you would not have acted thus . 
Reproach me not , Margaret , replied Disbrowe . 
I would give worlds to undo what I have done . 
Who shall guard me against the recurrence of such conduct ? said Mrs Disbrowe , coldly . 
But you have not yet informed me how I was saved ! Disbrowe averted his head . 
What mean you ? she cried , seizing his arm . 
What has happened ? Do not keep me in suspense ? Were you my preserver ? Your preserver was the plague , rejoined Disbrowe , mournfully . 
Disbrowe ! cried Margaret at length , raising herself in bed , you have deeply , irrecoverably injured me . 
But promise me one thing . 
I swear to do whatever you may desire , he replied . 
I know not , after what I have heard , whether you have courage for the deed , she continued . 
But I would have you kill this man . 
I will do it , replied Disbrowe . 
Nothing but his blood can wipe out the wrong he has done me , she rejoined . 
Challenge him to a duel a mortal duel . 
If he survives , by my soul , I will give myself to him . 
I swear it , she rejoined , and you know my passionate nature too well to doubt I will keep my word . 
But you have the plague ! What does that matter ? I may recover . 
Not so , muttered Disbrowe . 
If I fall , I will take care you do not recover . 
I will fight him to morrow , he added aloud . 
About noon on the following day Disbrowe proceeded to the Smyrna Coffee house , where , as he expected , he found Parravicin and his companions . 
The knight instantly advanced towards him , and laying aside for the moment his reckless air , inquired , with a look of commiseration , after his wife . 
She is better , replied Disbrowe , fiercely . 
I am come to settle accounts with you . 
I thought they were settled long ago , returned Parravicin , instantly resuming his wonted manner . 
But I am glad to find you consider the debt unpaid . 
Disbrowe lifted the cane he held in his hand , and struck the knight with it forcibly on the shoulder . 
Be that my answer , he said . 
I will have your life first , and your wife afterwards , replied Parravicin fiercely . 
You shall have her if you slay me , but not otherwise , retorted Disbrowe . 
It must be a mortal duel . 
It must , replied Parravicin . 
I will not spare you this time . 
I shall instantly proceed to the west side of Hyde Park , beneath the trees . 
I shall expect you there . 
On my return I shall call on your wife . 
I pray you do so , sir , replied Disbrowe , disdainfully . 
Both then quitted the Coffee house , Parravicin attended by his companions , and Disbrowe accompanied by a military friend , whom he accidentally encountered . 
Each party taking a coach , they soon reached the ground , a retired spot completely screened from observation by trees . 
The preliminaries were soon arranged , for neither would admit of delay . 
You are again successful , he groaned , but save my wife save her ! What mean you ? cried Parravicin , leaning over him , as he wiped his sword . 
But Disbrowe could make no answer . 
His utterance was choked by a sudden effusion of blood on the lungs , and he instantly expired . 
After a time , however , he recovered his spirits , and dined with his friends at the Smyrna but they observed that he drank more deeply than usual . 
His excesses did not , however , prevent him from playing with his usual skill , and he won a large sum from one of his companions at Hazard . 
Flushed with success , and heated with wine , he walked up to Disbrowe's residence about an hour after midnight . 
Could it be Mrs Disbrowe ? Rushing forward to one of the assistants in black cloaks , he asked whom he was about to inter . 
It is a Mrs Disbrowe , replied the coffin maker . 
She died of grief , because her husband was killed this morning in a duel but as she had the plague , it must be put down to that . 
And as the body of his victim also was brought forth , Parravicin fell against the wall in a state of stupefaction . 
GAMBLING AMONG THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS , PERSIANS , AND GREEKS . 
In Egypt , every man was easily admitted to the accusation of a gamester or dice player and if the person was convicted , he was sent to work in the quarries . 
Gambling was , therefore , prevalent in Egypt in the earliest times . 
Taylor , Ductor Dubitantium , B. iv . 
She played for the life or death of an unfortunate slave , who had only executed the commands of his master . 
The anecdote is as follows , as related by Plutarch , in the Life of Artaxerxes . 
above Artaxerses , his elder brother and the reigning monarch . 
But as there was nothing to take hold of in his conduct , the queen laid this snare for him . 
She was a woman of good address , had abundance of wit , and EXCELLED AT PLAYING A CERTAIN GAME WITH DICE . 
She had been apparently reconciled to the king after the death of Cyrus , and was present at all his parties of pleasure and gambling . 
, to which he readily consented . 
She suffered him to win , and paid down the money . 
But , affecting regret and vexation , she pressed him to begin again , and to play with her FOR A SLAVE . 
The king , who suspected nothing , complied , and the stipulation was that the winner was to choose the slave . 
She won and chose Mesabetes the slayer of her son who , being delivered into her hands , was put to the most cruel tortures and to death by her command . 
Thus early were dice made subservient to the purposes of cruelty and murder . 
The modern Persians , being Mohammedans , are restrained from the open practice of gambling . 
This may be done by the more scrupulous but no doubt there are numbers whose consciences do not prevent the disposal of their gambling profits nearer home . 
All excess of gaming , however , is absolutely prohibited in Persia and any place wherein it is much exercised is called a habitation of corrupted carcases or carrion house . 
Hyde , De Ludis Oriental . 
In ancient Greece gambling prevailed to a vast extent . 
See also Athenaeus , lib . 
Apothegm The Greeks gambled not only with dice , and at their equivalent for Cross and Pile , but also at cock fighting , as will appear in the sequel . 
GAMING AMONG THE ANCIENT ROMAN EMPERORS . 
In spite of the laws enacted against gaming , the court of the Emperor Augustus was greatly addicted to that vice , and gave it additional stimulus among the nation . 
Writing to his daughter he said , I send you a sum with which I should have gratified my companions , if they had wished to play at dice or odds and evens . 
I prefer it thus , however for my bounty should win me immense glory . 
Aleae rumorem nullo modo expavit . 
Sed hoc malo benignitas enim mea me ad coelestem gloriam efferet . 
This gambling propensity subjected Augustus to the lash of popular epigrams among the rest , the following Postquam bis classe victus naves perdidit , Aliquando ut vincat , ludit assidud aleam . 
He lost at sea was beaten twice , And tries to win at least with dice . 
But although a satirist by profession , the sleek courtier Horace spared the emperor's vice , contenting himself with only declaring that play was forbidden . 
The two following verses of his , usually applied to the effects of gaming , really refer only to RAILLERY . 
Ludus enim genuit trepidum certamen et iram Ira truces inimicitias et funebre bellum . 
Doubtless , Horace would have lashed the vice of gambling had it not been the habitual sin' of his courtly patrons . 
It seems that Augustus not only gambled to excess , but that he gloried in the character of a gamester . 
Of himself he says , Between meals we played like old crones both yesterday and today . 
Inter coenam lusimus gr gerontikws et heri et hodie . 
When he had no regular players near him , he would play with children at dice , at nuts , or bones . 
It has been suggested that this emperor gave in to the indulgence of gambling in order to stifle his remorse . 
The passion of gambling was transmitted , with the empire , to the family of the Caesars . 
At the gaming table Caligula stooped even to falsehood and perjury . 
One day , in such a humour , he caught a glimpse of two Roman knights he had them arrested and confiscated their property . 
Exultans rediit , gloriansque se nunquam prosperiore alea usum . 
Thirty millions of pounds sterling . 
The sestertius was worth s . 
The Emperor Claudius played like an imbecile , and Nero like a madman . 
on a single throw of the dice . 
Claudius played at dice on his journeys , having the interior of his carriage so arranged as to prevent the motion from interfering with the game . 
From that period the title of courtier and gambler became synonymous . 
Gaming was the means of securing preferment it was by gambling that Vitellius opened to himself so grand a career gaming made him indispensable to Claudius . 
Claudio per aleae studium familiaris . 
It is there that , as soon as the gaming instruments are distributed , you witness the most terrible contests . 
Is it not mere madness to lose one hundred thousand sestertii and refuse a garment to a slave perishing with cold ? Sat . 
The evil continued to increase , stimulated by imperial example . 
The day on which Didius Julianus was proclaimed Emperor , he walked over the dead and bloody body of Pertinax , and began to play at dice in the next room . 
Finally , at the epoch when Constantine abandoned Rome never to return , every inhabitant of that city , down to the populace , was addicted to gambling . 
CHAPTER V. GAMBLING IN FRANCE IN ALL TIMES . 
The brother of Saint Louis played at dice in spite of the repeated prohibitions of that virtuous prince . 
Even the great Duguesclin gamed away all his property in prison . 
The Duc de Touraine , brother of Charles VI . 
de Dugueselin , par Menard . 
Gaming went on in the camp , and even in the presence of the enemy . 
Generals , after having ruined their own fortunes , compromised the safety of the country . 
In the reign of Charles VI . 
we read of an Hotel de Nesle which was famous for terrible gaming catastrophes . 
More than one of its frequenters lost their lives there , and some their honour , dearer than life . 
There exists an old poem which describes the doings at this celebrated Hotel de Nesle . 
Que maints Gentils hommes tres haulx Y ont perdu armes et chevaux , Argent , honour , et Seignourie , Dont c'etoit horrible folie . 
How many very eminent gentlemen have there lost their arms and horses , their money and lordship a horrible folly . 
There young men become ruffians , dice players , gluttons , and drunkards , haughty of heart , and bereft of honour . 
Still it seems that gaming had not then confounded all conditions , as at a later period . 
It is evident , from the history and memoirs of the times , that the people were more given to games of skill and exercise than games of chance . 
Sauval , Antiquites de Paris , ii . 
The invention of cards brought about some change in the mode of amusement . 
The various games of this kind , however , cost more time than money but still the thing attracted the attention of the magistrates and the clergy . 
An Augustinian friar , in the reign of Charles VII . 
, effected a wonderful reformation in the matter by his preaching . 
At his voice the people lit fires in several quarters of the city , and eagerly flung into them their cards and billiard balls . 
Pasquier , Recherche des Recherches . 
With the exception of a few transient follies , nothing like a rage for gambling can be detected at that period among the lower ranks and the middle classes . 
The vice , however , continued to prevail without abatement in the palaces of kings and the mansions of the great . 
It is impossible not to remark , in the history of nations , that delicacy and good faith decline in proportion to the spread of gambling . 
However select may be the society of gamesters , it is seldom that it is exempt from all baseness . 
We have seen a proof of the practice of cheating among the Hindoos . 
It existed also among the Romans , as proved by the cogged' or loaded dice dug up at Herculaneum . 
The fact is that cheating is a natural , if not a necessary , incident of gambling . 
It may be inferred from a passage in the old French poet before quoted , that cheats , during the reign of Charles VI . 
Se votre ami qui bien vous sert En jouant vous changeoit les Dez , Auroit il pas Chapeau de vert . 
Brantome says that Louis XI . 
What kind of SUGAR PLUMS are these ? asked his Majesty . 
Sire , replied the priest , they are a remedy for the Plague . 
Very soon after , whilst he was among the troop of lords and gentlemen , the clock began to strike the hour . 
We can well imagine the consternation of the baron at this contretemps . 
In the latter part of the sixteenth century Paris was inundated with brigands of every description . 
A band of Italian gamesters , having been informed by their correspondents that Henry III . 
had established card rooms and dice rooms in the Louvre , got admission at court , and won thirty thousand crowns from the king . 
If all the kings of France had imitated the disinterestedness of Henry III . 
, the vice of gaming would not have made such progress as became everywhere evident . 
Brantome gives a very high idea of this king's generosity , whilst he lashes his contemporaries . 
played at tennis and was very fond of the game not , however , through cupidity or avarice , for he distributed all his winnings among his companions . 
When he lost he paid the wager , nay , he even paid the losses of all engaged in the game . 
was also passionately fond of the childish toy Bilboquet , or Cup and Ball , which he used to play even whilst walking in the street . 
There was , indeed , at that time a French captain named La Roue , who played high stakes , up to six thousand crowns , which was then deemed exorbitant . 
This intrepid gamester proposed a bet of twenty thousand crowns against one of Andrew Doria's war galleys . 
Curiously enough , it is said that the greater part of this sum had been won in England . 
early evinced his passion for gaming . 
When very young and stinted in fortune , he contrived the means of satisfying this growing propensity . 
There can be no doubt that the example of Henry IV . 
was , in the matter of gaming , as in other vices , most pernicious . 
, says Perefixe , was not a skilful player , but greedy of gain , timid in high stakes , and ill tempered when he lost . 
He adds rather naively , This great king was not without spots any more than the sun . 
Under him gambling became the rage . 
Many distinguished families were utterly ruined by it . 
The Duc de Biron lost in a single year more than five hundred thousand crowns . 
My son Constant , says D'Aubigne , lost twenty times more than he was worth so that , finding himself without resources , he abjured his religion . 
It was at the court of Henry IV . 
that was invented the method of speedy ruin by means of written vouchers for loss and gain which simplified the thing in all subsequent times . 
It was then also that certain Italian masters of the gaming art displayed their talents , their suppleness , and dexterity . 
One of them , named Pimentello , having , in the presence of the Duc de Sully , appealed to the honour which he enjoyed in having often played with Henry IV . 
Go about your business , said Sully , giving him a shove your infernal gibberish will not alter my resolve . 
The French nation , for a long time agitated by civil war , settled down at last in peace and abundance the fruits of which prosperity are often poisoned . 
They were so by the gambling propensity of the people at large , now first manifested . 
The warrior , the lawyer , the artisan , in a word , almost all professions and trades , were carried away by the fury of gaming . 
Magistrates sold for a price the permission to gamble in the face of the enacted laws against the practice . 
We can scarcely form an idea of the extent of the gaming at this period . 
in the course of a year . 
I won them , he says , although I was led away by a thousand follies of youth and my friend Pimentello won more than two hundred thousand crowns . 
Evidently this Pimentello might well be called a blood sucker by Sully . 
He is even said to have got all the dice sellers in Paris to substitute loaded dice instead of fair ones , in order to aid his operations . 
Nothing more forcibly shows the danger of consorting with such bad characters than the calumny circulated respecting the connection between Henry IV . 
Doubtless the calumny was as false as it was stupid . 
The winnings of the courtier Bassompierre were enormous . 
left , TO KILL TIME WITH , pour tuer le temps . 
at a single sitting , from M. De Guise , Joinville , and the Marechal d'Ancre . 
In reading his Memoirs we are apt to get indignant at the fellow's successes but at last we are tempted to laugh at his misery . 
He died so poor that he did not leave enough to pay the twentieth part of his debts ! Such , doubtless , is the end of most gamblers . 
But to return to Henry IV . 
, the great gambling exemplar of the nation . 
The account given of him at the gaming table is most afflicting , when we remember his royal greatness , his sublime qualities . 
When the king lost he was most exacting for his revanche , or revenge , as it is termed at play . 
On another occasion he was wonderfully struck with some gold pieces which Bassompierre brought to Fontainebleau , called Portugalloises . 
He could not rest without having them . 
Play was necessary to win them , but the king was also anxious to be in time for a hunt . 
Even love if that name can be applied to the grovelling passion of Henry IV . 
, intensely violent as it was could not , with its sensuous enticements , drag the king from the gaming table or stifle his despicable covetousness . 
During this reign gamesters were in high favour , as may well be imagined . 
One of them received an honour never conceded even to princes and dukes . 
It is said , however , that Henry IV . 
was finally cured of gambling . 
Credat Judaeus ! But the anecdote is as follows . 
The king lost an immense sum at play , and requested Sully to let him have the money to pay it . 
The latter demurred , so that the king had to send to him several times . 
At last , however , Sully took him the money , and spread it out before him on the table , exclaiming There's the sum . 
Henry fixed his eyes on the vast amount . 
It is said to have been enough to purchase Amiens from the Spaniards , who then held it . 
The king thereupon exclaimed I am corrected . 
I will never again lose my money at gaming . 
During this reign Paris swarmed with gamesters . 
Not a day passed without the ruin of somebody . 
The son of a merchant , who possessed twenty thousand crowns , lost sixty thousand . 
Usury and law suits completed the ruin of gamblers . 
The profits of the keepers of gaming houses must have been enormous , to judge from the rents they paid . 
A house in the Faubourg Saint Germain was secured at the rental of about L for a fortnight , for the purpose of gambling during the time of the fair . 
Small rooms and even closets were hired at the rate of many pistoles or half sovereigns per hour to get paid , however , generally entailed a fight or a law suit . 
All this took place in the very teeth of the most stringent laws enacted against gaming and gamesters . 
The fact was , that among the magistrates some closed their eyes , and others held out their hands to receive the bribe of their connivance . 
At the commencement of the reign of Louis XIII . 
the laws against gaming were revived , and severer penalties were enacted . 
These stringent measures checked the gambling of the people , but not that of the great , who went on merrily as before . 
Of course they kept the thing quiet' gambled in secret but more desperately than ever . 
The Marechal d'Ancre commonly staked twenty thousand pistoles . 
was not a gambler , and so , during this reign , the court did not set so bad an example . 
The king was averse to all games of chance . 
The reader will remember that , as already stated , a similar gaming accommodation was provided for the Roman Emperor Claudius . 
The cup and ball of Henry III . 
and the chessboard of Louis XIII . 
We must excuse well intentioned monarchs when they only indulge themselves with frivolous and childish trifles . 
It is something to be thankful for if we have not to apply to them the adage Quic quid delirant reges plectuntur Achivi When kings go mad their people get their blows . 
The reign of Louis XIV . 
was a great development in every point of view , gaming included . 
This minister , independently of his particular taste that way , knew how to ally gaming with his political designs . 
By means of gaming he contrived to protract the minority of the king under whom he governed the nation . 
Mazarin , says St Pierre , introduced gaming at the court of Louis XIV . 
He induced the king and the queen regent to play and preference was given to games of chance . 
The year was the era of card playing at court . 
Before this there was something done for improving conversation every one was ambitious of qualifying himself for it by reading ancient and modern books memory and reflection were much more exercised . 
The women , who till then had commanded respect , accustomed men to treat them familiarly , by spending the whole night with them at play . 
From that time gamesters swarmed all over France they multiplied rapidly in every profession , even among the magistracy . 
It became very soon mixed up with the most momentous circumstances of life and affairs of the gravest importance . 
The States general , or parliamentary assemblies , consisted altogether of gamblers . 
It is a game , says Madame de Sevigne , it is an entertainment , a liberty hall day and night , attracting all the world . 
I never before beheld the States general of Bretagne . 
The States general are decidedly a very fine thing . 
I went on Saturday with Villars to Versailles . 
THE KING IS NEXT TO MADAME DE MONTESPAN , who deals the Duke of Orleans , the queen , and Madame de Soubise Dangeau and Co . 
a thousand louis are poured out on the cloth there are no other counters . 
He was so good as to say I was a partner in his play , by which I got a very convenient and agreeable place . 
If a courtier arrives , the king retires for a moment to read his letters , and returns immediately . 
There is always some music going on , which has a very good effect the king listens to the music and chats to the ladies about him . 
He it is who really knows le dessous des cartes . 
You know how these calashes are made . 
The queen was in another with the princesses and then everybody else , grouped as they liked . 
Indeed , Madame de Sevigne had ample reason to denounce this source of her domestic misery . 
Writing to her son and daughter , she says You lose all you play for . 
You have paid five or six thousand francs for your amusement , and to be abused by fortune . 
Sometimes she explains herself plainly You believe that everybody plays as honestly as yourself ? Call to mind what took place lately at the Hotel de la Vieuville . 
She trembled every time her son left her to go to Versailles . 
She says He tells me he is going to play with his young master I shudder at the thought . 
Four hundred pistoles are very easily lost ce n'est rien pour Admete et c'est beaucoup pour lui . 
If Dangeau is in the game he will win all the pools he is an eagle . 
Then will come to pass , my daughter , all that God may vouchsafe il en arivera , ma fille , tout ce qu'il plaira a Dieu . 
It is nothing for Admetus , but 'tis much for him . 
And again , The game of Hoca is prohibited at Paris UNDER THE PENALTY OF DEATH , and yet it is played at court . 
Five thousand pistoles before dinner is nothing . 
That game is a regular cut throat . 
Hoca was prodigiously unfavourable to the players the latter had only twenty eight chances against thirty . 
In the seventeenth century this game caused such disorder at Rome that the Pope prohibited it and expelled the bankers . 
The Italians whom Mazarin brought into France obtained from the king permission to set up Hoca tables in Paris . 
The parliament launched two edicts against them , and threatened to punish them severely . 
The king's edicts were equally severe . 
The persons who played were to be imprisoned . 
These penalties might show great horror of gaming , but they were too severe to be steadily inflicted , and therefore failed to repress the crime against which they were directed . 
The severer the law the less the likelihood of its application , and consequently its power of repression . 
And fortune seems to have cherished and blessed him throughout his detestable career . 
After having made his fortune , he retired to write the scandalous Memoirs from which I have been quoting , and died out of debt ! Mem . 
France became too narrow a theatre for the chevaliers d'industrie and all who were a prey to the fury of gambling . 
The Count de Grammont , a very suspicious player , turned his talents to account in England , Italy , and Spain . 
This same Count de Grammont figured well at court on one occasion when Louis XIV . 
seemed inclined to cheat or otherwise play unfairly . 
Playing at backgammon , and having a doubtful throw , a dispute arose , and the surrounding courtiers remained silent . 
The Count de Grammont happening to come in , the king desired him to decide it . 
He instantly answered Sire , your Majesty is in the wrong . 
great world's idol and Voltaire's god , was up to a little cheating . 
It was , however , as much to the king's credit that he submitted to the decision , as it was to that of the courtier who gave him such a lesson . 
The magnanimity of Louis XIV . 
was still more strikingly shown on another gambling occasion . 
Very high play was going on at the cardinal's , and the Chevalier de Rohan lost a vast sum to the king . 
The agreement was to pay only in louis d'ors and the chevalier , after counting out seven or eight hundred , proposed to continue the payment in Spanish pistoles . 
You promised me louis d'ors , and not pistoles , said the king . 
Since your Majesty refuses them , replied the chevalier , I don't want them either and thereupon he flung them out of the window . 
The king got angry , and complained to Mazarin , who replied The Chevalier de Rohan has played the king , and you the Chevalier de Rohan . 
, almost in the same circumstances , infected Paris and the entire kingdom with the vice . 
High play was always the etiquette at court , but the sittings became less frequent and were abridged . 
The king , says Madame de Sevigne , has not given over playing , but the sittings are not so long . 
At the death of Louis XIV . 
three fourths of the nation thought of nothing but gambling . 
The nation seemed all mad with the excitement of play . 
During the minority of Louis XV . 
He propounded a SYSTEM he established a bank , which nearly upset the state and seduced even those who had escaped the epidemic of games of chance . 
He was finally expelled like a foul fog but they ought to have hanged him as a deliberate corrupter . 
And yet this is the man of whom Voltaire wrote as follows We are far from evincing the gratitude which is due to John Law . 
Voltaire's praise was always as suspicious as his blame . 
Just let us consider the tendency of John Law's system . 
Let this short generalization be well pondered , and the conclusion must be reached that this Scotch adventurer , John Law , was guilty of the crime of treason against humanity . 
Nous sommes loin de la reconnoissance qui est due a Jean Law . 
John Law , whom the French called Jean Lass , opened a gulf into which half the nation eagerly poured its money . 
Fortunes were made in a few days in a few HOURS . 
Many were enriched by merely lending their signatures . 
A sudden and horrible revolution amazed the entire people like the bursting of a bomb shell or an incendiary explosion . 
Some of the stock jobbers escaped others were compelled to disgorge their gains although they stoutly and , it must be admitted , consistently appealed to the sanction of the court . 
After extorting so many millions , this famous gambler was reduced to the necessity of selling his last diamond in order to raise money to gamble on . 
This great catastrophe , the commotion of which was felt even in Holland and in England , was the last sigh of true honour among the French . 
More gaming houses than ever were opened , and then it was that they received the name of Enfers , or Hells , by which they were designated in England . 
The greater number of those who go to the watering places , writes a contemporary , under the pretext of health , only go after gamesters . 
In the States general it is less the interest of the people than the attraction of terrible gambling , that brings together a portion of the nobility . 
The nature of the play may be inferred from the name of the place at which it takes place in one of the provinces namely , Enfer . 
This salon , so appropriately called , was in the Hotel of the king's commissioners in Bretagne . 
I have been told that a gentleman , to the great disgust of the noblemen present , and even of the bankers , actually offered to stake his sword . 
This name of Enfers has been given to several gaming houses , some them situated in the interior of Paris , others in the environs . 
People no longer blush , as did Caligula , at gambling on their return from the funeral of their relatives or friends . 
A gamester , returning from the burial of his brother , where he had exhibited the signs of profound grief , played and won a considerable sum of money . 
How do you feel now ? he was asked . 
A little better , he replied , this consoles me . 
All is excitement whilst I write . 
Without mentioning the base deeds that have been committed , I have counted four suicides and a great crime . 
Besides the licensed gaming houses , new ones are furtively established in the privileged mansions of the ambassadors and representatives of foreign courts . 
The most difficult bargains are often amicably settled by a game . 
I have seen persons gaming whilst taking a walk and whilst travelling in their carriages . 
People game at the doors of the theatres of course they gamble for the price of the ticket . 
In every possible manner , and in every situation , the true gamester strives to turn every instant to profit . 
If I relate what I have seen in the matter of play during sleep , it will be difficult to understand me . 
It is stated that the spectators of the affair looked upon it as a gaming transaction . 
Journal de Politique , Dec . 
he said to his opponent , I never miss . 
I bet you a hundred ducats that I break your right or left arm , just as you please . 
The bet was taken , and he won . 
I have found cards and dice in many places where people were in want of bread . 
I have seen the merchant and the artisan staking gold by handfuls . 
A small farmer has just gamed away his harvest , valued at francs . 
Dusaulx , De la Passion du Jeu , . 
Their number soon amounted to twelve and women were allowed to resort to them two days in the week . 
Besides the licensed establishments , several illegal ones were tolerated , and especially styled enfers , or hells . 
By degrees the public establishments resumed their wonted activity , and extended their pernicious effects . 
The licensed houses , as well as those recognized , however , still continued their former practices , and breaches of the regulations were merely visited with trivial punishment . 
In , fresh disorder having arisen in the unlicensed establishments , additional prohibiting measures were enforced . 
During the Revolution the gaming houses were frequently prosecuted , and licenses withheld but notwithstanding the rigour of the laws and the vigilance of the police , they still contrived to exist . 
In the general corruption of morals , which rose to its height during the reign of Louis XVI . 
, gambling kept pace with , if it did not outstrip , every other licentiousness of that dismal epoch . 
Fouche , the minister of police , derived an income of L , a year for licensing or privileging' gaming houses , to which cards of address were regularly furnished . 
A minister of the Emperor Theodosius II . 
After the restoration of the Bourbons , it became quite evident that play in the Empire had been quite as Napoleonic in its vigour and dimensions as any other idea' of the epoch . 
The following detail of the public gaming tables of Paris was published in a number of the Bibliotheque Historique , , under the title of Budget of Public Games . 
STATE OF THE ANNUAL EXPENSES OF THE GAMES OF PARIS . 
Under the present Administration , there are Tables of Trente et un . 
These Tables are divided into nine houses , four of which are situated in the Palais Royal . 
To serve the seven tables of Trente et un , there are francs Dealers , at fr . 
, SERVICE FOR THE NINE ROULETTES AND ONE PASSE DIX . 
, SERVICE OF THE CRAPS , BIRIBI , AND HAZARD , Dealers , at fr . 
, Chefs de Partie at the principal houses , at fr . 
, Chefs de Partie for the Roulettes , at fr . 
, Secret Inspectors , at fr . 
, Inspector General , at . 
, Waiters , at fr . 
, Beer and refreshments , a month . 
, Refreshment for the grand saloon , including two dinners every week , per month . 
, Total expense of each month . 
, Multiplied by twelve , is . 
, , Rent of Houses , per annum . 
, , If the privilege' or license is . 
, , If a bonus of a million is given for six years , the sixth part , or one year , will be . 
, , The profits are estimated at , per month , . 
, Which yield , per annum , . 
, , Deducting the expenditure . 
, , The annual profits are . 
, , Thus giving the annual profit at L sterling . 
We omit the profits resulting from the watering places , amounting to fr . 
One of the new conditions imposed on the Paris gaming houses is the exclusion of females . 
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF MODERN GAMING IN ENGLAND . 
It seems that the rise of modern gaming in England may be dated from the year or . 
Before this time gaming appears never to have assumed an alarming aspect . 
is entitled Hints for a Reform , particularly of the Gaming Clubs . 
By a Member of Parliament . 
About thirty years ago , says this writer , there was but one club in the metropolis . 
It was regulated and respectable . 
There were few of the members who betted high . 
Such stakes at present would be reckoned very low indeed . 
There were then assemblies once a week in most of the great houses . 
An agreeable society met at seven o'clock they played for crowns or half crowns and reached their own houses about eleven . 
There was but one lady who gamed deeply , and she was viewed in the light of a phenomenon . 
Were she now to be asked her real opinion of those friends who were her former PLAY fellows , there can be no doubt but that they rank very low in her esteem . 
There is now no society . 
The routs begin at midnight . 
They are painful and troublesome to the lady who receives company , and they are absolutely a nuisance to those who are honoured with a card of invitation . 
It is in vain to attempt conversation . 
The social pleasures are entirely banished , and those who have any relish for them , or who are fond of early hours , are necessarily excluded . 
Such are the companies of modern times , and modern people of fashion . 
Whence spring the difficulties which every succeeding day increases ? From the GAMBLING CLUBS . 
Why are they continually hunted by their creditors ? The reply is the GAMBLING CLUBS . 
At present , when a boy has learned a little from his father's example , he is sent to school , to be INITIATED . 
There is no necessity for his being of age , as the sooner he is ballotted for , the more advantageous his admission will prove to the OLD members . 
Scarcely is the hopeful youth enrolled among these HONOURABLE associates , than he is introduced to Jews , to annuity brokers , and to the long train of money lenders . 
They take care to answer his pecuniary calls , and the greater part of the night and morning is consumed at the CLUB . 
To his creditors and tradesmen , instead of paying his bills , he offers a BOND or ANNUITY . 
Such do we find the present fashionable style of life , from his Grace to the Ensign in the Guards . 
Of course this is an allusion to the American War of Independence and the political events at home , from to . 
At present , tradesmen must themselves be gamblers before they give credit to a member of these clubs but if a reform succeeds they will be placed in a state of security . 
At present they must make REGULAR families pay an enormous price for their goods , to enable them to run the risk of never receiving a single shilling from their gambling customers . 
Notwithstanding the purity of morals enjoined by the court of George III . 
, the early part of his reign presents a picture of dissolute manners as well as of furious party spirit . 
The most fashionable of our ladies of rank were immersed in play , or devoted to politics the same spirit carried them into both . 
The Sabbath was disregarded , spent often in cards , or desecrated by the meetings of partisans of both factions moral duties were neglected and decorum outraged . 
The fact was , that a minor court had become the centre of all the bad passions and reprehensible pursuits in vogue . 
Wharton , The Queens of Society . 
of Georgiana , Duchess of Devonshire . 
So called from the letters E and O , the turning up of which decided the bet . 
They were otherwise called Roulette and Roly Poly , from the balls used in them . 
They seem to have been introduced in England about the year . 
The first was set up at Tunbridge and proved extremely profitable to the proprietors . 
The system was progressive but steady in its development . 
the same person who some years since became a bankrupt in Tavistock Street , immediately commenced the Man of Fashion at Bath , kept running horses , c . 
Some of the members were taken into partnership on account of their dexterity in securing' dice or dealing' cards . 
Then came upon the nation the muddy flood of French emigrants , poured forth by the Great Revolution a set of men , speaking generally , whose vices contaminated the very atmosphere . 
Besides Faro and Hazard , the foreign games of Macao , Roulette , Rouge et Noir , c . 
, were introduced , and there was a graduated accommodation for all ranks , from the Peer of the Realm to the Highwayman , the Burglar , and the Pick et . 
At one of the watering places , in , a baronet lost L , at play , and a bond for L . 
Some of them kept bankers , and were possessed of considerable property in the funds and in land , and went their circuits as regularly as the judges . 
Most excellent judges they were , too , of the condition of a pigeon . 
He hanged himself in his bed room a few hours afterwards . 
It was prevalent among the highest ranks of society , who had set the example to their inferiors , and who , it seemed , were too great for the law . 
I wish they could be punished . 
The charge was clearly proved , and the prisoner was sentenced to three months' imprisonment with hard labour . 
In the same year numbers of young persons robbed their masters to play at a certain establishment called Morley's Gambling House , in the City , and were ruined there . 
A traveller of the coachmakers , Messrs Houlditch of Long Acre , embezzled or applied to his own use considerable sums of money belonging to them . 
The money he received for them he was to send to his employers , after deducting his expenses but instead of so doing , he gambled nearly the whole of it away . 
I am sensible of the crime I commit against God , my family , and society , but have not courage to live dishonoured . 
The generous confidence you placed in me I have basely violated I have robbed you , and though not to enrich myself , the consciousness of it destroys me . 
My losses were not large at first and the stories that were told me of gain made me hope they would soon be recovered . 
At this period I received the order to go to Vienna , and on settling at the hotel I found my debts treble what I had expected . 
I was in consequence compelled to leave the two carriages as a guarantee for part of the debt , which I had not in my power to discharge . 
Affection for them holds me in existence a little longer . 
The gaming table again presented itself to my imagination as the only possible means of extricating myself . 
Their sensibilities will not cause them to need human aid . 
Thus I shall be threefold the murderer . 
I thank you for the kindness you have rendered me and I assure your brother that he has , in this dreadful moment , my ardent wishes for his welfare here and hereafter . 
I have so contrived it that you will see a person at the Prince's tomorrow , who will interpret for you . 
In mentioning my fate to him , you will not much serve your own interest by blackening my character and memory . 
I subjoin the reward of my villainies and the correct balance of the account . 
Thousands upon thousands have been ruined in the vicinity of St James's . 
It was the plunderers at gaming tables that filled the gazettes and made the gaols overflow with so many victims . 
A foreigner has advanced an opinion as to the source of the gambling propensity of Englishmen . 
The English , says M. Dunne , the most speculative nation on earth , calculate even upon future contingences . 
Nowhere else is the adventurous rage for stock jobbing carried on to so great an extent . 
The fury of gambling , so common in England , is undoubtedly a daughter of this speculative genius . 
The Greeks of Great Britain are , however , much inferior to those of France in cunning and industry . 
Wattier's Club , in Piccadilly , was the resort of the Macao players . 
It was kept by an old maitre d'hotel of George IV . 
, a character in his way , who took a just pride in the cookery and wines of his establishment . 
frequented Wattier's , with Beau Brummell for their sun . 
Nearly the same turn of reflection is suggested as we run over the names of his associates . 
Almost all of them were ruined three out of four irretrievably . 
Indeed , it was the forced expatriation of its supporters that caused the club to be broken up . 
there was a great deal of high play at White's and Brookes' , particularly at Whist . 
He was fished out in time , found he was not ruined , and played on during the remainder of his life . 
and he richly merited the name , if skill , temper , and the most daring courage are titles to it . 
The greatest genius , however , is not infallible . 
There was also a great deal of play at Graham's , the Union , the Cocoa Tree , and other clubs of the second order in point of fashion . 
Here large sums were hazarded with equal rashness , and remarkable characters started up . 
Among the most conspicuous was the late Colonel Aubrey , who literally passed his life at play . 
He did nothing else , morning , noon , and night and it was computed that he had paid more than sixty thousand pounds for card money . 
He was a very fine player at all games , and a shrewd , clever man . 
He had been twice to India and made two fortunes . 
It was said that he lost the first on his way home , transferred himself from one ship to another without landing , went back , and made the second . 
It had got to a low ebb when Mr Crockford came to London and established the celebrated club which bore his name . 
Some good was certainly produced by the system . 
, with its degrading incidents , is at an end . 
In the second place , this very circumstance brings the worst part of the practice within the reach of the law . 
Public gambling , which only existed by and through what were popularly termed hells , might be easily suppressed . 
There were , in , more than twenty of these establishments in Pall Mall , Piccadilly , and St James's , called into existence by Crockford's success . 
, might be put down by any watchful magistrate . 
I fear that something similar may be suggested at the present day , as to the same notorious localities . 
Moro , Baccara , Tchuka these are games at which continental peasants will wager and lose their little fields , their standing crops , their harvest in embryo , their very wives even . 
On every race course there was a public gambling booth and an abundance of thimble riggers' stalls . 
But the Emperor Napoleon all ex member of Crockford's as he is sensibly declined the tempting bait . 
It is not generally known , as the penny a liners say , that the Rev . 
These existed at Aix la Chapelle , Baden Baden , Wiesbaden , Ems , Kissengen , and at Spa , close to the Prussian frontier , in Belgium . 
Herr Hecker , of the red republican tendencies , and the astounding wide awake hat , particularly distinguished himself in the latter place by his iconoclastic animosity to Roulette and Rouge et Noir . 
When dynastic order was restored the Rhine gaming tables were re established . 
The Prussian Government , much to its honour , has since shut up the gambling houses at that resort for decayed nobility and ruined livers , Aix la Chapelle . 
, Malmoe , in Sweden , too remote to do much harm , and HOMBOURG . 
C'est fait , It is all settled , said the host of the Hotel de France to me , rubbing his hands exultingly when I mentioned the matter . 
I must mention , in conclusion , that within a very few years we had , if we have not still , a licensed gaming house in our exquisitely moral British dominions . 
I did not lose much of my temper , however , for the odd , quaint little place pleased me . 
Not so another Roman citizen , or English travelling gent . 
Mr Sala is here in error . 
Colton was a prosperous gambler throughout , and committed suicide to avoid a surgical operation . 
A notice of the Rev . 
C. Colton will be found in the sequel . 
Chicken hazard is scotched , not killed but a poor , weazened , etiolated biped is that once game bird now . 
There is Doncaster , with policemen to keep order , and admit none but respectable people subscribers , who fear Heaven and honour the Queen . 
You have seen a farmer's dog bark at a beggar , and the creature run from the cur . 
There thou might'st behold the great image of authority a dog's obeyed in office . 
Take crazy King Lear's words as a text for a sermon against legislative inconsistencies , and come back with me to Hombourg Kursaal . 
It appears that a warrant was granted on the oath of a Mr William Clarke , against William Wright and James Ford , charged with feloniously stealing L . 
But the prosecutor did not appear in court to prove the charge . 
The matter then took a different turn . 
He said he soon got into the confidence of Clarke , who put him up to the secrets of playing . 
The firm consisted of O'Mara , Pollett , Morley , and Clarke . 
There was not much playing at Donaldson's . 
Afterwards the table was removed into Broad Street , but the landlady quickly sent it away . 
It was then carried to a room over Walker's Library , where a rent was paid of twelve guineas per week , showing plainly the profits of the speculation . 
Several gentlemen used to frequent the table , among whom was one who lost L . 
The gentleman was induced to play again , and endeavour to recover his money . 
One of the firm , Pollett , wrote a letter of recommendation to a Mr Young , to get the bills discounted at his broker's . 
They returned to Brighton , and the witness apprized the firm of his arrival . 
They wanted him to come that evening , but the witness TOLD THE GENTLEMAN OF HIS SUSPICIONS that during their absence a FALSE TABLE had been substituted . 
On entering the library they met Walker , who wished them better success , but trembled visibly . 
At this table Clarke generally dealt , and O'Mara played . 
When the gentleman found that he had been cheated of the L , he went to Walker to demand back his money . 
Walker , in the utmost confusion , went into the room , and returned with a proposal to allow L . 
This he declined to take , and immediately laid the information before Mr Sergeant Runnington . 
At the first examination , the gentleman' before mentioned , a Mr Mackenzie , said he had played Rouge et Noir at Walker's , and had lost L . 
O'Mara appeared , with his counsel , the celebrated Mr Adolphus the Ballantyne of his day of Old Bailey renown and forensic prowess . 
Mr Sergeant Runnington very obligingly stated to Mr Adolphus the previous proceeding , directed the depositions to be laid before him , and allowed him time to peruse them . 
Mr Mackenzie did not appear , and there was no further evidence . 
for the views of Mr Adolphus here alluded to . 
real name , he should have his share of the money , and might go with him and Wright to Brussels . 
After hearing these witnesses , Mr Sergeant Runnington , without calling on Mr Adolphus for any further defence of his client , pronounced the judgment of the Bench . 
He reviewed the transaction from its commencement , and stated the impression , to the disadvantage of O'Mara , which the tale originally told by the two witnesses was calculated to make . 
O'Mara must therefore be discharged but the two witnesses would not be so fortunate . 
GAMBLING AT THE GERMAN BATHING PLACES . 
BADEN AND ITS CONVERSATION HOUSE . 
Kurzeit , that is , Cure season , at Baden , Ems , and Ais . 
No spot in the whole world draws together a more distinguished society than may be met at Baden its attractions are felt and acknowledged by every country in Europe . 
Says Mrs Trollope I doubt if anything less than the evidence of the senses can enable any one fully to credit and comprehend the spectacle that a gaming table offers . 
I saw such at different hours through the whole of Sunday . 
To name these is impossible but I grieve to say that two English women were among them . 
on the walks and buildings , making altogether about L , . 
Some idea may be formed from this of the vast sums of money which must be yearly lost by the dupes who frequent it . 
The whole is under the direction of M. Benazet , who formerly farmed the gambling houses of Paris . 
On entering the eye is at once dazzled by the blaze of lights from chandeliers of magnificent dimensions , of lamps , lustres , and sconces . 
It also plays double , that is , on both sides of the wheel of fortune at once . 
, are immediately proclaimed , the stakes deposited are dexterously raked up by the croupier , or increased by payment from the bank , according as the colour wins or loses . 
At the bottom lie three squares , with the French marks p m d , that is , first , middle , third dozen . 
To render the game equal , without counting in the zeros and other trifles , the winner ought to receive the square of , instead of . 
For those classes of mankind who possess a little more prudence , the game called Trente et un , and Quarante , or Rouge et Noir are substituted . 
for permission to keep up the establishment . 
With all this liberality he himself derives an enormous revenue , an income as sure and determined as that of my Lord Mayor himself . 
City of the Fountains , or Baden Baden . 
The Baden season begins in May the official opening takes place towards the close of the spring quarter , and then the fashionable world begins to arrive at the rendezvous . 
Perfect order and decency of deportment , with all the necessary civilities of life , are rigorously insisted on , and summary expulsion is the consequence of any intolerable conduct . 
If these words are disregarded , there follows a summary order You must leave Baden this very day , and cross the frontiers of the Grand Duchy within twenty four hours . 
Mr Sala , in his novel Make your Game , has given a spirited description of the gambling scenes at Baden . 
Originally published in the Welcome Guest . 
, upon which piles of gold and bank notes tell the tale of noir perd et la couleur gagne , and vice versa . 
The principal group , upon which Dore has thrown one of his powerful effects of light , is lifelike , and several of the actors are at once recognized . 
Both croupiers are well known characters . 
There is much life and movement in the silent scene , in which thousands of pounds change hands in a few seconds . 
, who turns up the winning card , sits a finely dressed woman , who cares for little else but gold . 
The gentleman next to her is an inveterate blase . 
The countenance of the old man reckoning up needs no description . 
Near by stands a lady with a red feather in her hat , and whose lace shawl alone is worth several hundred pounds for Dore made it . 
The two female figures to the left are splendidly painted . 
The one who causes the other croupier to turn round seems somewhat extravagantly dressed but these costumes have been frequently worn within the last two years both at Baden and Hombourg . 
The old lady at the end of the table , to the left , is a well known habituee at both places . 
The bustling and shuffling eagerness of the figures in the background is exceedingly well rendered . 
As a whole , the Tapis Vert is a very fine illustration of real life , as met with in most of the leading German watering places . 
At the present moment , says another authority , writing more than a year ago , there are three very bold female gamblers at Baden . 
She wins calmly enough , but when luck is against her looks anxious . 
The second is the wife of an Italian ex minister , who is well known both as an authoress and politician . 
She patronizes Roulette , and at every turn of the wheel her money passes on the board . 
She is a good gambler smirking when she wins , and smirking when she loses . 
She dresses as splendidly as any of the dames of Paris . 
But the greatest of the feminine players is the Leonie Leblanc . 
When she is at the Rouge et Noir table a larger crowd than usual is collected to witness her operation . 
The stake she generally risks is francs , which is the maximum allowed . 
On reaching the wicket he found it closed there were still three quarters of an hour to pass before the departure of the train . 
I will go and play my parting game , he exclaimed , and , turning to the coachman , bade him drive to the Kursaal . 
His friends surrounded him , and held him back he should not go , he would lose all his winnings . 
But he was resolute , and soon reached the Casino , where his travelling dress caused a stir of satisfaction among the croupiers . 
The gambling houses of Spa are in the Redoute , where Rouge et Noir and Roulette are carried on nearly from morning to night . 
The profits of these establishments exceed L , a year . 
Murray's Handbook for Travellers on the Continent . 
The gambling in Spa is in a lower style than elsewhere . 
The croupiers seem to be always on the look out for cheating . 
They do not allow that at Spa there is an order against it on the wall . 
They could not trust the people that play , I suppose , and it is doubtful if the people could trust the croupiers . 
The ball spins more slowly at Roulette the cards are dealt more gingerly at Trente et quarante here than elsewhere . 
Nothing must be done quickly , lest somebody on one side or other should try to do somebody else . 
Outside it is cheery and full of life . 
The Queen of the Belgians is here , the Duke of Aumale , and other nice people . 
The breeze from the hills is always delicious the Promenade Meyerbeer as refreshing on a hot day as a draught of iced water . 
I remonstrated , and she very politely argued the point , ending by restoring my money . 
The plant between the two women was evident . 
The whole thing was a systematically planned robbery , and very possibly the croupier was a confederate . 
I detected the two women in communication , and I told them that I should change my place to the other side of the table where I would trouble them not to come . 
They took the hint very mildly , and could afford to do so , for they had got my money . 
The affair was very neatly managed , and would succeed in nearly every case , especially if the croupier is , as is most probable , always on the side of the ladies . 
In Hombourg was an obscure village , consisting of the castle of the Landgraf , and of a few hundred houses which in the course of ages had clustered around it . 
Few would have known of its existence except from the fact of its being the capital of the smallest of European countries . 
Its inhabitants lived poor and contented the world forgetting , by the world forgot . 
That same year two French brothers of the name of Blanc arrived at Frankfort . 
In a few months the money of the innocent water drinkers passed from their pockets into those of the brothers Blanc . 
The ancient man of Frascati turned the wheel , and no matter on what number the water drinkers risked their money , that number did not turn up . 
Having obtained this concession , the next step was to found a company . 
Frankfort abounds in Hebrew speculators , who are not particular how they make money , and as the speculation appeared a good one , the money was soon forthcoming . 
It was decided that the nominal capital was to be , florins , divided into shares of florins each . 
Half the shares were subscribed for by the Hebrew financialists , and the other half was credited to the Blancs as the price of their concession . 
From these small beginnings arose the company whose career has been so notorious . 
It has enjoyed uninterrupted good fortune . 
Let those who are disposed to risk their money inquire what is the character of the managers , and be on their guard . 
The extortionate hotel keepers , the snub nosed rogues of counter and till , who overcharge you in the shops , make their egregious profits from the Kursaal . 
The major part of the Landgrave's revenue is derived from the Kursaal he draws L a year from it . 
He and his house are sold to the Kursaal and the Board of Directors of the Kursaal are the real sovereigns and land graves of Hesse Hombourg . 
They have metamorphosed a miserable mid German townlet into a city of palaces . 
Their stuccoed and frescoed palace is five hundred times handsomer than the mouldy old Schloss , built by William with the silver leg . 
In the Kursaal is the ball or concert room , at either end of which is a gallery , supported by pillars of composition marble . 
The floors are inlaid , and immense mirrors in sumptuous frames hang on the walls . 
Vice can see her own image all over the establishment . 
, knaves and fools , from almost every corner of the world , gamble at the ingenious and amusing games of Roulette , and Rouge et Noir , otherwise Trente et Quarante . 
There is one table covered with green baize , tightly stretched as on a billiard field . 
The last is a blank , and stands for Zero , number Nothing . 
This is the regimen of Roulette . 
The banker sits before the wheel , a croupier , or payer out of winnings to and raker in of losses from the players , on either side . 
The interval between this and the ball finding a home is one of breathless anxiety . 
Stakes are eagerly laid but at a certain period of the revolution the banker calls out Le Jeu est fait . 
Rien ne va plus , and after that intimation it is useless to lay down money . 
Then the banker , in the same calm and impassable voice , declares the result . 
or , Huit , Rouge , Pair , et Manque , Eight , Red , Even , and NOT Pass the Rubicon . 
Now , on either side of the wheel , and extending to the extremity of the table , run , in duplicate , the schedule of mises or stakes . 
The green baize first offers just thirty six square compartments , marked out by yellow threads woven in the fabric itself , and bearing thirty six consecutive numbers . 
You must bear in mind , however , that the bank's loss on a single stake is limited to eight thousand francs . 
, on even , and on not past the Rubicon for twenty nine does not comply with any one of these conditions . 
He loses , and his money is coolly swept away from him by the croupier's rake . 
he receives sixteen times his stake . 
He may place it on the cross lines that divide four numbers , and , if either of the four wins , he will receive eight times the amount of his stake . 
A word as to Zero . 
Zero is designated by the compartment close to the wheel's diameter , and zero , or blank , will turn up , on an average , about once in seventy times . 
If you have placed money in zero , and the ball seeks that haven , you will receive thirty three times your stake . 
In the centre sits the banker , gold and silver in piles and rouleaux , and bank notes before him . 
These cards are placed on an inclined plane of marble , called a talon . 
The dealer first takes six packs of cards , shuffles them , and distributes them in various parcels to the various punters or players round the table , to shuffle and mix . 
He then takes two cards , one red and the other black , and sets them back to back . 
These cards are turned , and displayed conspicuously , as often as the colour varies , for the information of the company . 
These two parcels , one for each colour , make a coup . 
The same number of parcels being dealt for each colour , the dealer says , Apres , After . 
He , however , does not take the money , but removes it to the middle line , and the players may change the venue of their stakes if they please . 
This is called the first prison , or la premiere prison , and , if they win their next event , they draw the entire stake . 
In case of another refait , the money is removed into the third line , which is called the second prison . 
When this happens the dealer wins all . 
The cards are sometimes cut for which colour shall be dealt first but , in general , the first parcel is for black , and the second for red . 
The odds against a refait turning up are usually reckoned as to . 
The bankers , however , acknowledge that they expect it twice in three deals , and there are generally from twenty nine to thirty two coups in each deal . 
The odds in favour of winning several times are about the same as in the game of Pharaon , and are as delusive . 
He who goes to Hombourg and expects to see any melodramatic manifestation of rage , disappointment , and despair in the losing players , reckons without his host . 
When people want to commit suicide at Hombourg , they do it genteelly early in the morning , or late at night , in the solitude of their own apartments at the hotels . 
It would be reckoned a gross breach of good manners to scandalize the refined and liberal administration of the Kursaal by undisguised felo de se . 
The devil on two croupes at Hombourg is the very genteelest of demons imaginable . 
He ties his tail up with cherry coloured ribbon , and conceals his cloven foot in a patent leather boot . 
The first visit of the British youth to the Kursaal is usually paid with fear and trembling . 
He is with difficulty persuaded to enter the accursed place . 
By degrees , then , the shyness of the neophyte wears off . 
Then he temporizes remembers that there is a capital reading room , provided with all the newspapers and periodicals of civilized Europe , attached to the Kursaalian premises . 
The disappointed student of home or foreign news wanders back to one of the apartments where play is going , on . 
In fact , he does not know what to do with himself until table d'hote time . 
You know what the moral bard , Dr Watts says Satan finds some mischief still , For idle hands to do . 
The unfledged gamester watches the play more narrowly . 
A stout lady in a maroon velvet mantle , and a man with a bald head , a black patch on his occiput , and gold spectacles , obligingly makes way for him . 
He finds himself pressed against the very edge of the table . 
Perhaps a chair one of those delightfully comfortable Kursaal chairs is vacant . 
He is tired with doing nothing , and sinks into the emolliently cushioned fauteuil . 
He fancies that he has caught the eye of the banker , or one of the gentlemen of the croupe , and that they are meekly inviting him to try his luck . 
Well , there can't be much harm in risking a florin , he murmurs . 
He stakes his silver piece on a number or a colour . 
He wins , we will say , twice or thrice . 
Perhaps he quadruples his stake , nay , perchance , hits on the lucky number . 
It turns up , and he receives thirty five times the amount of his mise . 
Thenceforth it is all over with that ingenuous British youth . 
Far more fortunate for him would it be in the long run , if he met in the outset with a good swinging loss . 
They are drawn on and on , and in and in . 
They begin to lose , and continue to lose , and by the time they have cut their wise teeth they have neither sou nor silver to make their dearly bought wisdom available . 
The season of in Hombourg is thus depicted in a high class newspaper . 
has the town witnessed such an influx of tourists of every class and description . 
Hotels and lodging houses are filled to overflowing . 
A moralist would assuredly find here abundant food for reflection on the wonderful powers of self deception possessed by mankind . 
Certainly the demon of Rouge et Noir has never held more undisputed sway in Hombourg than in the present season never have the tables groaned under such a load of notes and rouleaux . 
One persevering Muscovite , who has been punting steadily for six weeks , has actually succeeded in getting rid of a million of florins . 
As yet there have been no suicides to record , owing probably to the precautionary measures adopted by a paternal Administration . 
They manage these things better in France . 
Any French prefet would give the German authorities a few useful hints concerning the cheap and speedy manufacture of loyal enthusiasm . 
The foreigners , however , seem determined to atone amply for any lack of proper feeling on the part of the townspeople . 
We are especially well off for dukes the Fremdenliste notifies the presence of no fewer than five of those exalted personages . 
Their booty since the beginning of the season must be reckoned by thousands . 
Mustapha Fazyl Pasha had his pocket picked of a purse containing L , and a Russian lady was lately robbed of a splendid diamond brooch valued at , francs . 
Pall Mall Gazette , Aug . 
But the days of the Kursaal are numbered , and the glories or infamies of Hombourg are doomed . 
The fiat has gone forth . 
In five years from this time the game will be made no longer the great gambling establishment of Hombourg will be a thing of the past . 
The town will be obliged to contend on equal terms with other watering places for its share of the wool on the backs of summer excursionists . 
Patriotism they had none they cared neither for Austrian nor Prussian , for a great Germany nor for a small Germany . 
The company was their god and their country . 
All that concerned them was to know whether the play was likely to be suppressed . 
When they were annexed to Prussia , at first they could not believe that Count Bismarck , whatever he might do with kings , would venture to interfere with the bank . 
It was to them a divine institution something far superior to dynasties and kingdoms . 
The sword that had been hanging over them fell . 
The shareholders were to receive per cent . 
Since this decree has been promulgated the Hombourgers are in despair . 
Although no doubt individuals will suffer by the suppression of public play here , it is by no means certain that the town itself will not be a gainer by it . 
Holiday seekers must go somewhere . 
The air of Hombourg is excellent the waters are invigorating the town is well situated and easy of access by rail living is comparatively cheap a room may be had for about s . 
a week , an excellent dinner for s . 
breakfast costs less than a shilling . 
The gaming at Aix la Chapelle is equally desperate and destructive . 
The remaining contents of his purse he thought fairly his own and he went of course to the table all the gayer for the license he had taken of his conscience . 
Towards the end of the last century Aix la Chapelle was a great rendezvous of gamblers . 
The chief banker there paid a thousand louis per annum for his license . 
A little Italian adventurer once went to the place with only a few louis in his pocket , and played crown stakes at Hazard . 
Fortune smiled on him he increased his stakes progressively in twenty four hours won about L . 
On the following day he stripped the bank entirely , pocketing nearly L , . 
His end was unknown to the relater of the anecdote , but ten to one , it was ruin . 
A French emigrant at Aix la Chapelle , who carried a basket of tarts , liqueurs , c . 
, for regaling the gamesters , put down twenty five louis at Rouge et Noir . 
Another emigrant arrived here penniless , but meeting a friend , obtained the loan of a few crowns , nearly his all . 
With these he went to the rooms , put down his stake , and won . 
He then successively doubled his stakes till he closed the evening with a hundred louis in his pocket . 
The next night , however , the lucky gambler returned to the room but only to be a spectator , as he firmly said . 
Alas ! his resolution failed him , and he quitted the tables indebted to a charitable bystander for a livre or two , to pay for his petty refreshments . 
It is said that the annual profit to the bankers was , florins , or L , . 
of cards and dice , sharks and pigeons . 
It has a professional odour upon it , which is certainly not that of sanctity . 
The rooms are well distributed the saloons handsome . 
The scene was unpleasing , though to me curious from its novelty . 
Ladies are admitted to play , but there were none occupied this morning . 
Reminiscences of the Rhine , c . 
The gambling here in has been described in a very vivid manner . 
Since the enforcement of the Prussian Sunday observance regulations , Monday has become the great day of the week for the banks of the German gambling establishments . 
, when the cards run out and have to be re shuffled . 
A fair and frail Magyar was punting on numbers with immense pluck and uniform ill fortune . 
Observing that she hesitated about staking her double florin , he advised her to set it on the number . 
Round went the wheel , and in twenty seconds the ball tumbled into compartment sure enough . 
At the next turn she asked his advice , and was told to try number . 
No sooner said than done , and came up in due course , whereby Mdlle L. C. won odd gulden in two coups , the amount risked by her being exactly four florins . 
Like a wise girl , she walked off with her booty , and played no more that day at Roulette . 
A few minutes later I saw an Englishman go through the performance of losing four thousand francs by experimentalizing on single numbers . 
, and not one of his selection proved successful . 
Englishmen , when they have lost more than they can afford , generally take it out of themselves in surly , brooding self reproach . 
Frenchmen give vent to their disgust and annoyance by abusing the game and its myrmidons . 
Germans utter one or two Gotts donnerwetterhimmelsapperment ! light up their cigars , drink a dozen or so hocks , and subside into their usual state of ponderous cheerfulness . 
Like the last named lady , she is daily wheeled to her place in the Black and Red temple , and plays away for eight or nine hours with wonderful spirit and perseverance . 
She has outlived all human friendships or affections , and exists only for the chink of the gold as it jingles on the gaming table . 
I cannot help fancying that her last words will be Rien ne va plus ! She is a great and convincing moral , if one but interpret her rightly . 
The doom of the German gaming houses seems to be settled . 
No indemnity is to be allowed to the persons holding concessions . 
A London newspaper defends this measure in a very successful manner . 
The German watering places are places of leisure , of trifling , of ennui . 
That is why , originally , they were selected as encampments by the tribes which fatten upon hazards . 
But there was another reason they brought in welcome revenues to needy princes . 
Even now , in view of the contemplated expurgation , Monaco is named , with Geneva , as successor to the perishing glories of Hombourg , Wiesbaden , and the great Baden itself . 
Here again the reasoning is incontrovertible . 
Of one other thing , moreover , we may feel perfectly sure , that Prussia having determined to suppress these centres and sources of corruption , they will gradually disappear from Europe . 
Upon the whole , history can never blame Prussia for such a use either of her conquests or her influence . 
Extracts from a leader' in the Standard of Sept . 
GAMBLING IN THE UNITED STATES . 
It is not surprising that a people so intensely speculative , excitable , and eager as the Americans , should be desperately addicted to gambling . 
Indeed , the spirit of gambling has incessantly pervaded all their operations , political , commercial , and social . 
In the American correspondence of the Morning Advertiser , Feb . 
said , in referring to the state of affairs we are socially , politically , and commercially demoralized . 
In New York there is scarcely a street without its gambling house private , of course , but well known to those who indulge in the vice . 
The ordinary public game is Faro . 
These are for the accommodation of the very poorest workmen , discharged soldiers , broken down gamblers , and street boys . 
I think , says a recent writer , of all the street boys in the world , those of New York are the most precocious . 
with the air of a young spendthrift to whom money is no object . 
St James's Magazine , Sept . 
The chief gambling houses of New York were established by men who are American celebrities , and among these the most prominent have been Pat Hern and John Morrissey . 
Some years ago this celebrated Irishman kept up a splendid establishment in Broadway , near Hauston Street . 
At that time his house was the centre of attraction towards which all the world' gravitated , and did the thing right grandly combining the Apicius with the Beau Nash or Brummell . 
He was profusely lavish with his wines and exuberant in his suppers and it was generally said that the game in action there , Faro , was played in all fairness . 
Pat Hern was a man of jovial disposition and genial wit , and would have adorned a better position . 
During the trout fishing season he used to visit a well known place called Islip in Long Island , much frequented by gentlemen devoted to angling and fond of good living . 
At Islip the equally renowned Oby Snedecker kept the tavern which was the resort of Pat Hern and his companions . 
It had attached to it a stream and lake to which the gentlemen who had the privilege of the house were admitted . 
Mrs Obadiah Snedecker , the buxom wife of mine host , was famous for the exquisite way in which she cooked veal cutlets . 
After fishing , the gentlemen used to take to gambling at the usual French games but here Pat Hern appeared not in the character of gambler , but as a private gentleman . 
He was always well received by the visitors , and caused them many a hearty laugh with his overflowing humour . 
He died about nine years ago , I think tolerably well off . 
John Morrissey was originally a prize fighter , having fought with Heenan and also with Yankee Sullivan , and lived by teaching the young Americans the noble art of self defence . 
He is now , I believe , a member of Congress for that city , and immensely wealthy . 
He is mentioned as one of those who pay the most income tax . 
Morrissey's gambling house is in Union Square , and is said to be magnificently furnished and distinguished by the most princely hospitality . 
At all hours of the day or night tables are laid out with every description of refreshment , to which all who visit the place are welcome . 
This is a remarkable feature in the American system . 
At all Bars , or public houses , you find provided , free of charge , supplies of cheese , biscuits , c . 
Morrissey's wines are very good , and always supplied in abundance . 
Almost every game of chance is played at this establishment , and the stakes are very high and unlimited . 
The dealers seem to know every one , and nod familiarly to all who approach their tables . 
John Morrissey is occasionally to be seen , walking through the rooms , apparently a disinterested spectator . 
He is a short , thick set man , of about years , dark complexion , and wears a long beard , dresses in a slovenly manner , and walks with a swagger . 
Now and then he approaches the table makes a few bets , and is then lost in the crowd . 
The same writer furnishes other very interesting facts . 
The police are undoubtedly aware of everything going on in these houses , and do not interfere as long as everything goes on quietly . 
I witnessed a case of this a young man in the employment of a commission merchant appropriated a large sum of his employer's money , and lost it at Faro . 
He was arrested , and confessed what he had done with it . 
The police at once proceeded to the house where the Faro bank was kept , and the scene , when it was known that the police were below , beggars description . 
The tables were upset , and notes and markers were flying about in all directions . 
This was in one of the lowest gaming houses , where skin games are practised . 
He lost everything and when I next saw him he was selling newspapers in front of the post office ! The mania for gambling is a most singular one . 
There is another house on the corner of Centre and Grand Streets , open during night and day . 
When a gambler has but small capital , he will go to a small house , where small stakes are admissible . 
The dealer handed him the money , and said Now you go off , straight away to Union Square , and pay away all you have won from here to John Morrissey . 
This is the way with all of them they never come here until they are dead broke , and have only a dirty dollar or so to risk . 
There was some truth in what he said , but notwithstanding he managed to keep the bank going on . 
In No. , in the Bowery , there is one of the lowest of the gaming houses I have seen in the Empire city . 
The proprietor is an Irishman he employs three men as dealers , and they relieve one another every four hours during the day and night . 
The stakes here are of the lowest , and the people to be seen here of the roughest to be found in the city . 
The game is Faro , as elsewhere . 
In this place I met an old friend with whom I had served in the army of Northern Virginia , under General Lee , in his Virginia campaign of . 
He told me he had been in New York since the end of the war , and lived a very uncertain sort of life . 
Whatever money he could earn he spent at the gaming table . 
Sometimes he had a run of luck , and whilst it lasted he dressed well , and stopped at the most expensive hotels . 
One night he would sleep at the Astor House and perhaps the next night he would not be able to pay for his bed , and would stay all night in the parks . 
Strange to say , hundreds live in this way , which is vulgarly called scratching in New York . 
Then to another , Young clear the way , you look down at the mouth to night ! Come along and have a turn and never mind your supper tonight . 
In this way the days and nights are passed in those gambling houses . 
There is also in New York an association for the prevention of gambling . 
The society employs detectives to visit the gambling saloons , and procure evidence for the suppression of the establishments . 
Many large houses of business subscribe . 
In the month of August the society's agents detected among the gamblers clerks of mercantile houses , and in the previous six months reported cases . 
It is stated that there are in New York and Brooklyn policy and lottery offices , and Faro banks , and that their net annual gains are not less than , , dollars . 
At American gambling houses it is very easy , says the same writer , to distinguish the professional from the ordinary gambler . 
Previous to the struggle for independence in the South , there were many hundreds of gamblers scattered through the Southern towns , and the Mississippi steam boats used to abound with them . 
The American gambler differs from his European brethren in many respects . 
During the war he speculated in greenbacks , and lost all his ill gotten gains , and had to descend to his present position . 
AMERICAN GAMES DRAW POKER , OR BLUFF . 
Draw Poker , or Bluff , is a favourite game with the Americans . 
The deal is usually determined by fixing on a card , and dealing round , face upwards , until such card appears . 
The dealer then places in the pool an Ante , or certain agreed upon sum , and proceeds to deal to each person five cards . 
The player next to the dealer , before looking at his cards , has the option of staking a certain sum . 
The privilege of raising or doubling on the blind may be exercised by any one round the table , provided he has not looked at his cards . 
Each person then looks at his cards , and decides on his plan of action . 
It should be understood that every one , except the blind , may look at his cards in his turn before deciding if he will meet the blind . 
Before speaking of the manner of drawing it will be better to give the relative value of the hands , which will much simplify the matter , and make it more easily understood . 
The next hand that takes precedence is a flush , or five cards of one colour after this comes threes , vis . 
The next is a sequence , as five following cards , for instance , nine . 
eight , seven , six , five it is not necessary they should all be of one colour , as this , of course , would constitute a flush . 
Next come two pairs , say , two knaves and two fives and , last of all , is a single pair of cards . 
Having explained the value of the hands , let us show how you endeavour to get them . 
We will suppose he has this , and , of course , he throws away three cards , and draws three in place of them . 
It is usually taken to be a sequence , as this requires no drawing , if originally dealt . 
Each one endeavours to keep his real position a secret from his neighbours . 
The player next the blind is the first to declare his bet in which , of course , he is entirely governed by circumstances . 
The foregoing is a concise account of the game , as played in America , where it is of universal interest , and exercises great fascination . 
It is often played by parties of friends who meet regularly for the purpose , and instances can be found where fortunes have been lost in a night . 
In this game , as there are more cards , as many as ten persons can play . 
Lansquenet is much played by the Americans , and is one of the most exciting games in vogue . 
The dealer or banker stakes a certain sum , and this must be met by the nearest to the dealer first , and so on . 
When the stake is met , the dealer turns up two cards , one to the right , the latter for himself , the former for the table or the players . 
If he loses , then the next player on the left becomes banker and proceeds in the same way . 
This name is derived from the German landsknecht , applied to a mercenary soldier . 
When the dealer's card turns up , he may take the stake and pass the bank or he may allow the stake to remain , whereat of course it becomes doubled if met . 
He can continue thus as long as the cards turn up in his favour having the option at any moment of giving up the bank and retiring for that time . 
If he does that , the player to whom he passes the bank has the option of continuing it at the same amount at which it was left . 
The pool may be made up by contributions of all the players in certain proportions . 
The terms used respecting the standing of the stake are , I'll see' and Je tiens . 
, or the turning up of similar cards on both sides , occurs , then the dealer takes half the stake . 
The original stake was only six pence but had each stake been met as won , the final doubling would have amounted to the immense sum of L , s . 
! This will appear by the following scheme L s . 
Unfortunately , however , there is a very easy means by which card sharpers manage the thing to perfection . 
When the sharper becomes banker he leans negligently over the table , and in this position his fingers are as close as possible to the prepared cards , termed portees . 
At the proper moment he seizes the cards and places them on the pack . 
By this means , the pack is not augmented . 
Robert Houdin , Les Tricheries des Grecs devoilees . 
In France the stakes commence at francs and it may be easily imagined how soon vast sums of money may change hands if the players are determined and reckless . 
This is also a game much played in the States . 
Five cards are dealt out , after the usual shuffling and cutting , with a turn up , or trump . 
The dealer has the privilege of discarding one of his cards and taking up the trump not showing , however , the one he discards . 
The Knave is the best card in the game a peculiar Yankee notion . 
The Knave of trumps is called the Right Bower , and the other Knave of the same colour is the Left Bower . 
Hence it appears that the nautical propensity of this great people is therein represented bower' being in fact a sheet anchor . 
The game may be five or seven points , as agreed upon . 
Euchre is rapid and decisive , and , therefore , eminently American . 
Some of the games played by the Americans are peculiar to themselves . 
For instance , vast sums of money change hands over Fly Loo , or the attraction existing between lumps of sugar and adventurous flies ! This game is not without its excitement . 
They tell an anecdote of a 'cute Yankee , who won invariably and immensely at the game . 
There seemed to be a sort of magical or mesmeric attraction for the flies to his lump . 
At length it was ascertained that he touched the lump with his finger , after having smeared it with something that naturally and irresistibly attracts flies whenever they can get at it . 
I am told that this game is also played in England if so , the parties must insist upon fresh lumps of sugar , and prevent all touching . 
The reader will probably ask what next will gamblers think of betting on ? But I can tell of a still more curious source of gambling infatuation . 
In the Oxford Magazine , is the following statement Vol . 
V. A few days ago , as some sprigs of nobility were dining together at a tavern , they took the following conceit into their heads after dinner . 
He then proposed to run it against any other two maggots that could be produced at table . 
Matches were accordingly made , and these poor reptiles were the means of L being won and lost in a few minutes ! THE CRIMES OF AMERICAN GAMBLERS . 
Suicides , duels , and murders have frequently resulted from gambling here as elsewhere . 
Many of the duels in dark rooms originate in disputes at the gaming table . 
The combatants rush from play to an upper or adjoining room , and settle their difference with revolver shots , often fatal to both . 
One of these was a serio comic affair which is perhaps worth relating . 
Two players had a gambling dispute , and resolved to settle it in a dark room with pistols . 
The door was locked and one of them fired , but missed . 
On this the other exclaimed Now , you rascal , I'll finish you at my leisure . 
He then began to search for his opponent . 
Three or four times he walked stealthily round the room but all in vain he could not find his man he listened he could not hear him breathe . 
Do take away that pistol . 
Very well , rejoined the tormentor , but just wait a bit I must have a voucher . 
I'll just cut off the bottom of your breeches by way of voucher . 
So saying he pulled out his knife and suited the action to the words . 
Now get down , he said , and out with the money which was paid , when the above named voucher was returned to the chimney groper . 
The town of Vicksburg , on the Mississippi , was formerly notorious as the rendezvous of all sorts of desperadoes . 
It was a city of men you saw no women , except at night and never any children . 
Vicksburg was a sink of iniquity and there gambling raged with unrestricted fury . 
It was always after touching at Vicksburg that the Mississippi boats became the well known scene of gambling some of the Vicksburghers invariably getting on board to ply their profession . 
On one occasion , one of these came on board , and soon induced some of the passengers to proceed to the upper promenade deck for gambling . 
Thereupon the Vicksburg gambler drew his knife and plunged it into the hand of the former , with a terrible imprecation . 
Throughout the Southern States , as before observed , gambling prevailed to a very great extent , and its results were often deplorable . 
A planter went to a gambling house , accompanied by one of his negroes , whom he left at the door to wait his return . 
Whilst the master was gambling the slave did the same with another whom he found at the door . 
Meanwhile a Mexican came up and stood by looking at the game of the negroes . 
By and by one of them accused the other of cheating , which was denied , when the Mexican interposed and told the negro that he saw him cheat . 
The latter told the Mexican that he lied whereupon the Mexican stabbed him to the heart , killing him on the spot . 
Agreed , said the Mexican they entered the house , proceeded to a dark room , fired at each other , and both were killed . 
On the return of the planter and his daughter , young Osborne accompanied them to Mobile . 
On the very night of their arrival , the planter proposed to his intended son in law to visit the gaming table . 
They went Osborne was unlucky and after some hours' play lost an immense amount to the father of his sweetheart . 
He gave bills , drawn on his house , in payment of the debt of honour . 
On the following morning the planter referred to the subject , hinting that Osborne must be ruined . 
Such was the action of the heartless gambler , rendered callous to all sentiments of real honour by his debasing pursuit . 
Young Osborne was equal to the occasion . 
Summoning all his powers to manfully bear this additional shock of fate , he calmly replied So be it , sir , as you wish it . 
Depend upon it , however , that my bills will be duly honoured' and so saying he bowed and departed , without even wishing to take leave of his betrothed . 
The bills were paid the concern was broken up old Mr Osborne soon died broken hearted and young Osborne went as clerk to some house of business in Wall Street . 
A year or so passed away , and one day a lady presented herself at the old house of Osborne now no longer theirs inquiring for young Osborne . 
Here , whilst seated at a table and in earnest conversation , the young lady's father rushed in , and instantly shot down Osborne , who expired at his feet . 
The passions of the two sexes are similar in the main the distinctions between them result less from nature than from education . 
Almost all the ancients had the bad taste to speak ill of women among the rest even that delightful old Father of the golden mouth , St Chrysostom . 
So that , evidently , Dr Johnson's fierce dictum cannot apply universally Only scoundrels speak ill of women . 
Seneca took the part of women , exclaiming By no means believe that their souls are inferior to ours , or that they are less endowed with the virtues . 
As for honour , it is equally great and energetic among them . 
Napoleon seems to have formed what may be called a professional estimate of women . 
Nettled by this sarcastic reply , she returned to the charge , observing , It is said you are not friendly to the sex . 
Napoleon was her match again Madame , he exclaimed , I am passionately fond of my wife and off he walked . 
if all men were Napoleons and all women de Staels . 
Both these opinions may be set down as mere claptrap , witty , but vile . 
But a truce to such insults against those who beautify the earth THEIR vices cannot excuse ours . 
It is we who have depraved them by associating them with excesses which are repugnant to their delicacy . 
The contagion , however , has not affected all of them . 
How many a gambler has been reformed by the tender appeals of a good and devoted wife . 
Venerable women ! one of them exclaims , in whatever rank Heaven has placed you , receive my homage . 
The gentleness of your souls smooths down the roughness of ours and checks its violence . 
Dusaulx , De la Passion du Jeu . 
A very pretty anecdote is told of such a wife and a gaming husband . 
, trembling for the fate of her husband , made him a present of one of these dread boxes . 
This little master piece of conjugal and maternal affection represented a wife in the attitude of supplication , and weeping children , seeming to say to their father THINK OF US ! . 
It is , therefore , only with the view of avenging good and honourable women , that I now proceed to speak of those who have disgraced their sex . 
I have already described a remarkable gamestress the Persian Queen Parysatis . 
There were no gamestresses among the Greeks and the Roman women were always too much occupied with their domestic affairs to find time for play . 
What will our modern ladies think , when I state that the Emperor Augustus scarcely wore a garment which had not been woven by his wife , his sister , or grand daughters . 
Veste non temere alia quam domestica usus est , ab uxore et filia nepotibusque confecta . 
Although deeply corrupted under Nero and the sovereigns that resembled him , the Roman women never gambled among themselves except during the celebration of the festival of the Bona Dea . 
This ceremonial , so often profaned with licentiousness , was not attended by desperate gambling . 
The most depraved women abstained from it , even when that mania was at its height , not only around the Capitol , but even in the remainder of the Empire . 
In France , women who wished to gamble were , at first , obliged to keep the thing secret for if it became known they lost caste . 
In the reign of Louis XIV . 
, and still more in that of Louis XV . 
, they became bolder , and the wives of the great engaged in the deepest play in their mansions but still a gamestress was always denounced with horror . 
Such women , says La Bruyiere , make us chaste they have nothing of the sex but its garments . 
A stranger once betted on the game of a lady at a gaming table , who claimed a stake although on a losing card . 
Gaming sometimes led to other crimes . 
The Countess of Schwiechelt , a young and beautiful lady from Hanover , was much given to gambling , and lost , livres at Paris . 
In order to repair this great loss , she planned and executed the robbery of a fine coronet of emeralds , the property of Madame Demidoff . 
She had made herself acquainted with the place where it was kept , and at a ball given by its owner the Hanoverian lady contrived to purloin it . 
Her youth and rank in life induced many persons to solicit her pardon but Buonaparte left her to the punishment to which she was condemned . 
In England , too , the practice of gambling was fraught with the worst consequences to the finest feelings and best qualities of the sex . 
The chief danger is very plainly hinted at in the comedy of The Provoked Husband . 
'Tis not your ill hours that always distract me , but , as often , the ill company that occasions those hours . 
Sure I don't understand you now , my lord . 
What ill company do I keep ? Lord Townley . 
The facts , says Mr Massey , confirm the theory . 
History of England , ii . 
Whist was not much in vogue until a later period , and was far too abstruse and slow to suit the depraved taste which required unadulterated stimulants . 
The ordinary stakes at these mixed assemblies would , at the present day , be considered high , even at the clubs where a rubber is still allowed . 
The consequences of such gaming were often still more lamentable than those which usually attended such practices . 
It would happen that a lady lost more than she could venture to confess to her husband or father . 
Her creditor was probably a fine gentleman , or she became indebted to some rich admirer for the means of discharging her liabilities . 
In either event , the result may be guessed . 
In the one case , the debt of honour was liquidated on the old principle of the law merchant , according to which there was but one alternative to payment in purse . 
In the other , there was likewise but one mode in which the acknowledgment of obligation by a fine woman would be acceptable to a man of the world . 
The disgusting influence of this sordid vice was so disastrous to female minds , that they lost their fairest distinction and privileges , together with the blushing honours of modesty . 
Their high gaming was necessarily accompanied with great losses . 
He hinted at commutations which were not to be refused . 
So tender these , if debts crowd fast upon her , She'll pawn her VIRTUE to preserve her HONOUR ! Thus , the last invaluable jewel of female possession was unavoidably resigned . 
That was indeed the forest of all evils , but an evil to which every deep gamestress was inevitably exposed . 
Hogarth strikingly illustrated this phase of womanhood in England , in his small picture painted for the Earl of Charlemont , and entitled Picquet , or Virtue in Danger . 
It shows a young lady , who , during a tete a tete , had just lost all her money to a handsome officer of her own age . 
He is represented in the act of returning her a handful of bank bills , with the hope of exchanging them for another acquisition and more delicate plunder . 
But , indeed , the thing was perfectly understood . 
we read All play debts must be paid in specie or by equivalent . 
The man that plays beyond his income pawns his estate the woman must find out something else to mortgage when her pin money is gone . 
The husband has his lands to dispose of the wife her person . 
Now when the female body is once dipped , if the creditor be very importunate , I leave my reader to consider the consequences . 
In vain she flattered herself that the injury she had done her husband would for ever remain one of those secrets which can only be disclosed at the last day . 
Vengeance pursued her steps , she was lost the villain to whom she had sacrificed herself boasted of the favours he had received . 
The fatal report was conveyed to her injured husband . 
He refused to believe what he thought impossible , but honour obliged him to call the boaster to the field . 
The meeting took place the profligate gambler not content with declaring , actually exulted in his guilt . 
But his triumph was of short date a bullet through the head settled his account with this world . 
But the gates of mercy were opened in vain the offender refused to receive forgiveness because she had offended . 
The lust of gambling had absorbed all her other desires . 
She gave herself up entirely to the infamous pursuit and its concomitants , whilst her husband sank by a quick decay , and died the victim of grief and anguish . 
Of other English gamestresses , however , nothing but the ordinary success or inconveniences of gambling are recorded . 
In the year , a lady at the West End lost one night , at a sitting , guineas at Loo . 
Again , a lady having won a rubber of guineas from a city merchant , the latter pulled out his pocket book , and tendered L in bank notes . 
The fair gamestress , with a disdainful toss of the head , observed In the great houses which I frequent , sir , we always use gold . 
That may be , madam , said the gentleman , but , in the LITTLE houses which I frequent , we always use paper . 
Goldsmith mentions an old lady in the country who , having been given over by her physician , played with the curate of the parish to pass the time away . 
Having won all his money , she next proposed playing for the funeral charges to which she would be liable . 
Unfortunately , the lady expired just as she had taken up the game ! A lady who was desperately fond of play was confessing herself . 
The priest represented , among other arguments against gaming , the great loss of time it occasioned . 
Ah ! said the lady , that is what vexes me so much time lost in shuffling the cards ! The celebrated Mrs Crewe seems to have been fond of gaming . 
Charles James Fox ranked among her admirers . 
Fox unfortunately lost every shilling of it before morning . 
Mrs Crewe often met the supposed debtor afterwards , and , surprised that he never noticed the circumstance , at length delicately hinted the matter to him . 
This famous Mrs Crewe was the wife of Mr Crewe , who was created , in , Lord Crewe . 
The lines Fox wrote on her were not exaggerated . 
The form of her face was exquisitely lovely , her complexion radiant . 
I know not , Miss Burney writes , any female in her first youth who could bear the comparison . 
She uglifies every one near her . 
This charming partisan of Fox had been active in his cause and her originality of character , her good humour , her recklessness of consequences , made her a capital canvasser . 
Wharton , The Queens of Society . 
In the barrow women of London used generally to carry dice with them , and children were induced to throw for fruit and nuts . 
At the present day a sort of roulette is used for the same purpose by the itinerant caterers to the sweetmeat and fruit loving little ones . 
She was young certainly not more than twenty five and , though not regularly nor brilliantly handsome , most singularly winning both in person and demeanour . 
Her husband , who had as unquestionably the air of a gentleman as she had of a lady , though not always close to her , was never very distant . 
He did not play himself , and I fancied , as he hovered near her , that his countenance expressed anxiety . 
I never saw age and station in a position so utterly beyond the pale of respect . 
I was assured she was a person of rank and my informant added , but I trust she was mistaken , that she was an ENGLISH woman . 
Belgium and Western Germany , in . 
GAMING HOUSES KEPT BY LADIES . 
There is no doubt that during the last half of the last century many titled ladies not only gambled , but kept gaming houses . 
It is as follows Die Lunae , Aprilis , . 
And then they were directed to withdraw . 
And I have hired Joseph Dewberry , William Horsely , Ham Cropper , and George Sanders as my servants or managers thereof . 
And all the above mentioned persons I claim as my domestick servants , and demand all those privileges that belong to me as a peeress of Great Britain appertaining to my said Assembly . 
That such practice continued in vogue is evident from the police proceedings subsequently taken against THE FAMOUS LADY BUCKINGHAMSHIRE . 
The witnesses had been servants of her Ladyship , recently discharged on account of a late extraordinary loss of guineas from her Ladyship's house , belonging to the Faro bank . 
The case is reported in the Times of March th , . 
One cannot help being struck with the appearance of the Times newspaper at that period years ago . 
In the same year , the croupier at the Countess of Buckinghamshire's one night announced the unaccountable disappearance of the cash box of the Faro bank . 
All eyes were turned towards her Ladyship . 
Mrs Concannon said she once lost a gold snuff box from the table , while she went to speak to Lord C . 
Another lady said she lost her purse there last winter . 
And a story was told that a certain lady had taken , BY MISTAKE , a cloak which did not belong to her , at a rout given by the Countess of . 
Some surmised that the lady who stole the cloak might also have stolen the Faro bank cash box . 
His failure is said to have been owing to misplaced confidence in a subordinate , who robbed him of thousands . 
Seymour Harcourt , Gaming Calendar . 
The cards are dealt , the fatal pool is lost , And all her golden hopes for ever cross'd . 
Yet still this card devoted fair I view Whate'er her luck , to honour ever true . 
So tender there , if debts crowd fast upon her , She'll pawn her virtue to preserve her honour . 
Beauties will grow mere hags , toasts wither'd jades , Frightful and ugly as the QUEEN OF SPADES . 
GAMBLING POETS , SAVANTS , PHILOSOPHERS , WITS , AND STATESMEN . 
Perhaps the stern moralist who may have turned over these pages has frowned at the facts of the preceding chapter . 
If so , I know not what he will do at those which I am about to record . 
One of them has said Oh ! if my pillow could reveal my sufferings last night ! His was true grief for it had no witness . 
Ille dolet vere qui sine teste dolet . 
I believe , however , that the following is an undeniable fact . 
You may find suspicious gamesters in every rank of life , but among men of genius you will generally , if not always , find only victims resigned to the caprices of fortune . 
The professions which imply the greatest enthusiasm naturally furnish the greater number of gamesters . 
Thus , perhaps , we may name ten poet gamesters to one savant or philosopher who deserved the title or infamy . 
Coquillart , a poet of the th century , famous for his satirical verses against women , died of grief after having ruined himself by gaming . 
The great painter Guido and a painter is certainly a poet was another example . 
By nature gentle and honourable , he might have been the most fortunate of men if the demon of gambling had not poisoned his existence , the end of which was truly wretched . 
Rotrou , the acknowledged master of Corneille , hurried his poetical effusions in order to raise money for gambling . 
This man of genius was but a spoilt child in the matter of play . 
He once received two or three hundred louis , and mistrusting himself , went and hid them under some vine branches , in order not to gamble all away at once . 
Vain precaution ! On the following night his bag was empty . 
Like Rotrou , he mistrusted his folly , and sometimes refrained . 
He would have died rich had he always refrained . 
His relapses were terrible one night he lost fifteen hundred pistoles . 
The reader will probably remember Dr Johnson's exclamation on hearing of the large debt left unpaid by poor Goldsmith at his death Was ever poet so trusted before ! . 
Descartes became a gamester in his seventeenth year but it is said that the combinations of cards , or the doctrine of probabilities , interested him more than his winnings . 
Nothing , says he , could justify me , unless it was that my love of gaming was less than my horror of privation . 
A very bad excuse , indeed but Cardan reformed and ceased to be a gambler . 
Three of the greatest geniuses of England Lords Halifax , Anglesey , and Shaftesbury were gamblers and Locke tells a very funny story about one of their gambling bouts . 
Lord Anglesey observing Locke's occupation , asked him what he was writing . 
My Lord , replied Locke , I am anxious not to lose anything you utter . 
This irony made them all blush , and put an end to the game . 
The physician Paschasius Justus was a deplorable instance of an incorrigible gambler . 
He began his book , but still he gamed he finished it , but the evil was still in him . 
I have lost everything but God ! he exclaimed . 
He prayed for delivery from his soul's disease but his prayer was not heard he died like any gambler more wretched than reformed . 
De Alea , sive de curanda in pecuniam cupiditate , pub . 
Illum animi morbum , ut Deus tolleret , serio et frequenter optavit . 
M. Dusaulx , author of a work on Gaming , exclaims therein I have gambled like you , Paschasius , perhaps with greater fury . 
Like you I write against gaming . 
Can I say that I am stronger than you , in more critical circumstances ? La Passion du Jeu . 
Cicero stigmatizes two of his contemporaries for taking too great a delight in such games , on account of their skill in playing them . 
Ast alii , quia praeclare faciunt , vehementius quam causa postulat delectantur , ut Titius pila , Brulla talis . 
Quinctilian advised his pupils to avoid all sterile amusements , which , he said , were only the resource of the ignorant . 
Montaigne calls chess a stupid and childish game . 
I hate and shun it , he says , because it occupies one too seriously I am ashamed of giving it the attention which would be sufficient for some useful purpose . 
King James I. , the British Solomon , forbade chess to his son , in the famous book of royal instruction which he wrote for him . 
The passion of play , although fatigued , is never satiated , and therefore it always leaves behind protracted agitation . 
The famous Roman lawyer Scaevola suffered from playing at backgammon his head was always affected by it , especially when he lost the game , in fact , it seemed to craze him . 
Unfortunately such was not the result among the literary and scientific men , in France or England , during the last quarter of the last century . 
Many of them bitterly lamented that they ever played , and yet played on , going through all the grades and degradations appointed for his votaries by the inexorable demon of gambling . 
Nature had by no means formed Nash for beau . 
The fact is , he was possessed of , at least , some requisites of a lover . 
He had assiduity , flattery , fine clothes and as much wit as the ladies he addressed . 
Beau Nash was a barrister , and had been a remarkable , a distinguished one in his day although not at the bar . 
He had the honour to organize and direct the last grand revel and pageant' before a king , in the Hall of the Middle Temple , of which he was a member . 
No wonder , then , that we subsequently find him Master of the Ceremonies at Bath , then the theatre of summer amusements for all people of fashion . 
When he gave in his accounts to the Masters of the Temple , among other items he charged was one For making one man happy , L . 
He added , that , if they did not choose to acquiesce in his charge , he was ready to refund the money . 
His laws were so strictly enforced that he was styled King of Bath no rank would protect the offender , nor dignity of station condone a breach of the laws . 
Gaming ran high at Bath , and frequently led to disputes and resort to the sword , then generally worn by well dressed men . 
The Book of Days , Feb . 
He therefore set up an E O table , and the speculation flourished for a short time but the legislature interfered in , and inflicted severe penalties on the keepers of such tables . 
This was the ruin of Nash's gambling speculation and for the remaining sixteen years of his life he depended solely on the precarious products of the gaming table . 
He died at Bath , in , in greatly reduced circumstances , being represented as poor , old , and peevish , yet still incapable of turning from his former manner of life . 
The Book of Days , Feb . 
The following are the chief anecdotes told of Beau Nash . 
Nash one night invited him to supper , and offered to give him fifty guineas to forfeit twenty every time he lost two hundred at one sitting . 
The young man refused , and was at last undone . 
The Duke of B loved play to distraction . 
One night , chagrined at a heavy loss , he pressed Nash to tie him up from deep play in future . 
The beau accordingly gave his Grace one hundred guineas on condition to receive ten thousand whenever he lost that amount at one sitting . 
The duke desisted for that time but ere long , losing considerably at Newmarket , he willingly paid the penalty . 
When the Earl of T was a youth he was passionately fond of play . 
Nash undertook to cure him . 
Conscious of his superior skill , he engaged the earl in single play . 
His lordship lost his estate , equipage , everything ! Our generous gamester returned all , only stipulating for the payment of L whenever he might think proper to demand it . 
Some time after his lordship's death , Nash's affairs being on the wane , he demanded it of his heirs , WHO PAID IT WITHOUT HESITATION . 
Nash one day complained of his ill luck to the Earl of Chesterfield , adding that he had lost L the last night . 
The earl replied , I don't wonder at your LOSING money , Nash , but all the world is surprised where you get it to lose . 
The Book of Days , Feb . 
The character of Selwyn , says Mr Jesse , was in many respects a remarkable one . 
With brilliant wit , a quick perception of the ridiculous , and a thorough knowledge of the world and human nature , he united classical knowledge and a taste for the fine arts . 
To these qualities may be added others of a very contradictory nature . 
Such was the original George Selwyn . 
This celebrated conversational wit was a devoted frequenter of the gaming table . 
Till you leave off play entirely you must be in earnest , and without irony en verite le serviteur tres humble des evenements , in truth , the very humble servant of events . 
His friend the Lord Carlisle , although himself a great gambler , also gave him good advice . 
That is , aces , or ace and deuce , twelve , or seven . 
Again As you have played I am happy to hear you have won but by this time there may be a triste revers de succes . 
Selwyn had taken to gaming before his father's death probably from his first introduction to the clubs . 
His stakes were high , though not extravagantly so , compared with the sums hazarded by his contemporaries . 
In he lost L to Mr Shafto , who applied for it in the language of an embarrassed tradesman . 
DEAR SIR , I have this moment received the favour of your letter . 
I intended to have gone out of town on Thursday , but as you shall not receive your money before the end of this week , I must postpone my journey till Sunday . 
Be sure you could not wish an indulgence I should not be happy to grant , if it my power . 
Nor was this the only dun of the kind that Selwyn had to put up with' on account of the gaming table . 
He received the following from Edward , Earl of Derby . 
Edward , twelfth Earl of Derby , was born September , , and died October , . 
He married first , Elizabeth , daughter of James , sixth Duke of Hamilton , who died in , and secondly , the celebrated actress , Miss Farren , who died April , . 
The Earl of Derby to George Selwyn . 
If it is not very inconvenient to you , I should be glad of the money you owe me . 
If it is , I must pay what I can , and desire Brookes to trust me for the remainder . 
This is the very model of a dun , and proves how handsomely such ugly things can be done when one has to deal with a noble instead of a plebeian creditor . 
I won L last night , which was immediately appropriated by Mr Martindale , to whom I still owe L , and I am in Brookes' book for thrice that sum . 
you will find Stephen in the same state of insolvency . 
Adieu ! I am obliged to you for the gentleness and moderation of your dun , considering how long I have been your debtor . 
Yours most sincerely , R. F. Apud Selwyn and his Contemporaries by Jesse . 
Selwyn is said to have been a loser on the whole , and often pillaged . 
, each of whom , like Mr Shafto , had a sum to make up' in the infernal style so horridly provoking , even when we are able and willing to pay . 
However , as Selwyn died comparatively rich , it may be presumed that his fortune suffered to no great extent by his indulgence in the vice of gaming . 
One of them remarking that it would require some delicacy in breaking the matter to him , and adding that he wondered how Fox would take it . 
Take it ? interrupted Selwyn , why , QUARTERLY , to be sure . 
Jesse , George Selwyn and his Contemporaries . 
This eminent statesman was regarded by his contemporaries as an able , an influential , and occasionally a powerful speaker . 
Jesse , George Selwyn and his Contemporaries , ii . 
Brave conquerors , for so ye are , Who war against your own affections , And the huge army of the world's desires . 
I call him poor C. because I hope he is only miserable at having been such a PIGEON to Colonel Scott . 
This Lady Sarah Bunbury was the wife of Sir Charles Bunbury , after having had a chance of being Queen of England , as the wife of George III . 
, who was passionately in love with her , and would have married her had it not been for the constitutional opposition of his privy council . 
This charming and beautiful woman died in , at the age of . 
She was probably the last surviving great granddaughter of Charles II . 
I never lost so much in five times as I have done to night , and am in debt to the house for the whole . 
Let me see you though I shall be ashamed to look at you after your goodness to me . 
This letter is endorsed by George Selwyn After the loss of L , . 
He tells Selwyn of a set which , at one point of the game , stood to win L , . 
Lord Byron , it is almost needless to remark , was nearly related to Lord Carlisle . 
The mother of Lord Carlisle was sister to John , fourth Lord Byron , the grandfather of the poet Lord Carlisle and Lord Byron were consequently first cousins once removed . 
In the midst of the infatuated votaries of the gaming god in England , towers the mighty intellectual giant Charles James Fox . 
Nature had fashioned him to be equally an object of admiration and love . 
So much for the character of Fox , as I have gathered from Mr Jesse and I continue the extremely interesting subject by quoting from that delightful book , The Queens of Society . 
Afterwards he indulged recklessly and extravagantly in every course of licentiousness which the profligate society of the day opened to him . 
At Brookes' and the Thatched House Fox ate and drank to excess , threw thousands upon the Faro table , mingled with blacklegs , and made himself notorious for his shameless vices . 
His back room was so incessantly filled with Jew money lenders that he called it his Jerusalem Chamber . 
George Selwyn and his Contemporaries , ii . 
By Grace and Philip Wharton . 
Of his talents , which were certainly great , he made an affected display . 
Of his learning he was proud but rather as adding lustre to his celebrity for universal tastes . 
The election of , in which he stood and was returned for Westminster , was one of the most famous of the old riotous political demonstrations . 
In the beginning , of the year he had been convicted of bribery , but in spite of this his popularity increased . 
The election for Westminster , in which Fox was opposed by Sir Cecil Wray , was the most tempestuous of all . 
There were , votes to be polled , and the opposing parties resorted to any means of intimidation , or violence , or persuasion which political enthusiasm could suggest . 
On the eighth day the poll was against the popular member , and he called upon his friends to make a great effort on his behalf . 
It was then that the ladies' canvass began . 
The colouring of political friends , which concealed his vices , or rather which gave them a false hue , has long since faded away . 
We now know Fox as he WAS . 
In the latest journals of Horace Walpole his inveterate gambling , his open profligacy , his utter want of honour , is disclosed by one of his own opinion . 
, whom he was thought to resemble in features . 
had lost thirteen thousand pounds at one sitting to Lord Carlisle , who offered to take three thousand pounds down . 
Charles Fox was also at a much earlier period clear that he never meant to accept it . 
At the time in question Fox was hardly eighteen . 
occasion him many disagreeable moments . 
Lord Carlisle's fears proved groundless in this respect . 
Gibbon writes to Lord Sheffield in , You know Lord Holland is paying Charles Fox's debts . 
They amount to L , . 
Timbs , Club Life in London . 
His love of play was desperate . 
But his misfortune arose from playing games of chance , particularly at Faro . 
After eating and drinking plentifully , he would sit down at the Faro table , and invariably rose a loser . 
Once , indeed , and once only , he won about eight thousand pounds in the course of a single evening . 
Part of the money he paid to his creditors , and the remainder he lost almost immediately . 
Before he attained his thirtieth year he had completely dissipated everything that he could either command or could procure by the most ruinous expedients . 
The very sedan chairmen , whom he was unable to pay , used to dun him for arrears . 
In , he might be considered as an extinct volcano , for the pecuniary aliment that had fed the flame was long consumed . 
Yet he even then occupied a house or lodgings in St James's Street , close to Brookes' , where he passed almost every hour which was not devoted to the House of Commons . 
Great sums were then borrowed of Jews at exorbitant premiums . 
His brother Stephen was enormously fat George Selwyn said he was in the right to deal with Shylocks , as he could give them pounds of flesh . 
Walpole , in , walking up St James's Street , saw a cart at Fox's door , with copper and an old chest of drawers , loading . 
Epsom too had been unpropitious and one creditor had actually seized and carried off Fox's goods , which did not seem worth removing . 
Doubtless this indifference was to be attributed quite as much to the callousness of the reckless gambler as to anything that might be called philosophy . 
According to Chesterfield , the first Lord Holland had no fixed principles in religion or morality , and he censures him to his son for being too unwary in ridiculing and exposing them . 
He gave full swing to Charles in his youth . 
Let nothing be done , said his lordship , to break his spirit , the world will do that for him . 
At his death , in , he left him L , to pay his debts it was all bespoke , and Fox soon became as deeply pledged as before . 
, as related by Mr Timbs in his amusing book of the Clubs . 
See Gilchrist , Ordeals , Millingen , Hist . 
, and Steinmetz , Romance of Duelling , ii . 
The following are authentic anecdotes of Fox , as a gambler . 
Fox had a gambling debt to pay to Sir John Slade . 
Finding himself in cash , after a lucky run at Faro , he sent a complimentary card to the knight , desiring to discharge the claim . 
Sir John no sooner saw the money than he called for pen and ink , and began to figure . 
What now ? cried Fox . 
Only calculating the interest , replied the other . 
Are you so ? coolly rejoined Charles James , and pocketed the cash , adding I thought it was a debt of honour . 
On another occasion he won about L and one of his bond creditors , who soon heard of his good luck , presented himself and asked for payment . 
Impossible , sir , replied Fox I must first discharge my debts of honour . 
Struck by the creditor's witty rejoinder , Fox instantly paid the money . 
The above is the version of this anecdote which I remember as being current in my young days . 
Impossible , sir , replied Fox I must first discharge my debts of honour . 
Well , sir , give me your bond . 
It was delivered to Fox , who tore it in pieces and threw it into the fire . 
Now , sir , said Fox , my debt to you is a debt of honour and immediately paid him . 
Now , it is evident that Fox could not destroy the document without rendering himself still more liable' in point of law . 
One morning , after Fox had passed the whole night in company with Topham Beauclerc at Faro , the two friends were about to separate . 
Fox had lost throughout the night , and was in a frame of mind approaching to desperation . 
Beauclerc's anxiety for the consequences which might ensue led him to be early at Fox's lodgings and on arriving he inquired , not without apprehension , whether he had risen . 
On perceiving his friend's surprise , Fox exclaimed , What would you have me do ? I have lost my last shilling . 
Fox's best friends are said to have been half ruined in annuities given by them as securities for him to the Jews . 
L , a year of such annuities of Fox and his society' were advertised to be sold at one time . 
Walpole wondered what Fox would do when he had sold the estates of his friends . 
Walpole further notes that in the debate on the Thirty nine Articles , February , , Fox did not shine nor could it be wondered at . 
He had sat up playing at Hazard , at Almack's , from Tuesday evening , the th , till five in the afternoon of Wednesday , the th . 
On one occasion Stephen Fox was dreadfully fleeced at a gaming house at the West End . 
He entered it with L , , and left without a farthing . 
Assuredly these Foxes were misnamed . 
Pigeons dupes of sharpers at play would have been a more appropriate cognomen . 
These eminent statesmen were gamesters at one period of their lives . 
The latter was Wilberforce's usual resort , where his friendship with Pitt who played with characteristic and intense eagerness , and whom he had slightly known at Cambridge greatly increased . 
He once lost L at the Faro table . 
We played a good deal at Goosetree's , he states , and I well remember the intense earnestness which Pitt displayed when joining in these games of chance . 
He perceived their increasing fascination , and soon after abandoned them for ever . 
Wilberforce , said Mr Bankes , who never joined himself , if you will keep it I will give you a guinea . 
The playful challenge was accepted , but as the game grew deep he rose the winner of L . 
Much of this was lost by those who were only heirs to fortunes , and therefore could not meet such a call without inconvenience . 
The pain he felt at their annoyance cured him of a taste which seemed but too likely to become predominant . 
Again The very first time I went to Boodle's I won twenty five guineas of the Duke of Norfolk . 
I belonged at this time to five clubs Miles' and Evans' , Brookes' , Boodle's , White's , and Goosetree's . 
Sir Philip Francis , the eminent politician and supposed author of the celebrated Letters of Junius , was a gambler , and the convivial companion of Fox . 
During the short administration of that statesman he was made a Knight of the Bath . 
Unquestionably this reverend gentleman was one of the most lucky of gamesters having died in full possession of the gifts vouchsafed to him by the goddess of fortune . 
In he was presented by his college to the vicarage of Kew with Petersham , in Surrey . 
Two years after he returned to his Napoleon , which he republished , with extensive additions , under the new title of The Conflagration of Moscow . 
He subsequently made appearance , in order to retain his living but in he lost it , a successor being appointed by his college . 
He adds his soul to every other loss , and , by the act of suicide , renounces earth , to forfeit heaven . 
Caleb Colton managed to KEEP his gambling fortune , and what is more , devoted it to a worthy purpose . 
Part of his wealth he employed in forming a picture gallery and he printed at Paris , for private distribution , an ode on the death of Lord Byron . 
He certainly committed suicide , but the act was not the gamester's martyrdom . 
The Beau took it , and for a few days discontinued coming to the club but about a fortnight after Mills , happening to go in , saw him hard at work . 
Come , Mash tub , said Brummell , who was the caster , what do you set ? Twenty five guineas , answered the Alderman . 
Well , then , returned the Beau , have at the mare's pony' . 
I wish , sir , replied the brewer , that every other blackguard in London would tell me the same . 
The following occurrence must have caused a sensation' to poor Brummell . 
The effect upon those present may easily be imagined , at finding themselves in the company of a known madman who had loaded weapons about him . 
He died in utter poverty , and an idiot , at Caen , in the year , aged years . 
Brummell had a very odd way of accounting for the sad change which took place in his affairs . 
Whatever poor Brummell's supernatural tendencies may have generally been , he had unquestionably a superstitious veneration for his lost sixpence . 
Tom Duncombe graduated and took honours among the greatest gamblers of the day . 
Like Fox , he was heir to a good fortune ten or twelve thousand a year the whole of which he managed to anticipate before he was thirty . 
Tom Duncombe ran Charles Fox close . 
When Mr Duncombe , sen . 
opened its arms to the possessor of a good name and the inheritor of a good estate . 
Noblesse oblige and so does fashion . 
The aspirant had confessedly a hard time of it . 
It will be remembered that when Fox's debts were in like manner estimated they amounted to L , the coincidence is curious . 
Tommy Duncombe was not only indefatigable at Crockford's , but at every other rendezvous of the votaries of fortune a skilful player withal , and not unfrequently a winner beyond expectation . 
One night at Crockford's he astonished the house by carrying off sixteen hundred pounds . 
Tom Duncombe died poor , but , says his son , rich in the memory of those who esteemed him , as Honest Tom Duncombe . 
But we can hardly fancy , we cannot leave , a son of Duncombe in such a frame of mind . 
We cannot say to HIM Macte nova virtute , puer sic itur ad astra . 
In virtue renewed go on thus to the skies we go . 
We are unfeignedly reluctant to check a filial effusion , or to tell disagreeable truths but there are occasions when a sense of public duty imperatively requires them to be told . 
Why did this exemplary parent die poor ? When did he abandon the allurements of a patrician circle ? He died poor because he wasted a fine fortune . 
If he abandoned a patrician circle , it was because he was tired of it , or thought he could make a better thing of democracy . 
If he conquered his passions , it was , like St Evremond by indulging them . 
Honest Tom Duncombe ! We never heard him so designated before except in pleasantry . 
A ruined spendthrift , although he may have many good qualities , can never , strictly speaking , be termed honest . 
It is absurd to say of him that he is nobody's enemy but his own with family , friends , and tradespeople paying the penalty for his self indulgence . 
There was one quality of honesty , however , which honest Tom Duncombe did possess . 
He was not a hypocrite . 
He was not devoid of right feeling . 
No , he would have said , if he could have anticipated this most ill chosen , however well intentioned , tribute , spare me this terrible irony . 
Do not provoke the inevitable retort . 
This is a terrible rejoinder to a son endeavouring to raise a monument to his beloved and respected parent . 
It was a denunciation of gambling in all its varieties , and was , no doubt , well intentioned . 
Even the eminent counsel , Mr Adolphus , thought proper to allude to the report in one of his speeches at the bar . 
This called forth the following letter from the duke to Mr Adolphus Sept . 
Mr Adolphus to Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington . 
Percy Street , st Sept . 
Mr Adolphus is extremely sorry that any expression used by him should have occasioned a moment's uneasiness to the Duke of Wellington . 
The Duke of Wellington presents his compliments to Mr Adolphus , and assures Mr Adolphus that he is convinced that Mr Adolphus never intended to reflect injuriously upon him . 
If the duke had believed that Mr Adolphus could have entertained such an intention he would not have addressed him . 
Respecting this statement the Times' reviewer observes We do not know what the Chancellor of the Exchequer will say to this . 
, why not say at once that he attended the nocturnal sittings at Crockford's in his robes . 
Monsieur CHevalier , Captain of the Grenadiers in the first regiment of Foot Guards , in the time of Charles II . 
of England , was a native of Normandy . 
Nothing could be more acceptable to Chevalier , who at once closed for the bargain , and got his commission signed the same day . 
Besides the fact that it was a time of peace , Chevalier knew well that the military title of Captain was a very good cloak to shelter under . 
Chevalier , having always courage enough to maintain what he did , chose the latter . 
Ogle fought him in Hyde Park , and wounded him through the sword arm , and got back his money . 
After this they were always good friends , playing several comical tricks , one of which is as follows , strikingly illustrating the manners of the times . 
Ogle , seeming still to resent the affront , cried to Chevalier , If you are a gentleman , pray follow me . 
Chevalier won a great deal of money from that peer , who lost most of his estate at gaming before he died , and which ought to be a warning to all noblemen . 
Having once choused , or cheated , a Mr Levingstone , page of honour to King James II . 
, out of guineas , the latter gave the captain a challenge to fight him next day behind Montague House a locality long used for the purpose of duelling . 
Chevalier seemingly accepted the challenge , and next morning , Levingstone going to Chevalier's lodging , whom he found in bed , put him in mind of what he was come about . 
Whereupon he made what haste he could away , and shortly Chevalier coming out of the closet and finding Levingstone not in the room , was very glad of his absence . 
Some time after , Chevalier was called to account by another gentleman . 
They met at the appointed hour in Chelsea Fields , when Chevalier said to his adversary Pray , sir , for what do we fight ? The gentleman replied For honour and reputation . 
The effect of this jest was so great on his adversary that swords were put up , and they went home together good friends . 
He was none of your friend that shot you , the duke replied . 
So dying within a few hours after , he was interred in a field near Philip Norton Lane , as the old chronicler says much UN lamented by all who knew him . 
Lucas , Memoirs of Gamesters and Sharpers . 
This gambler , who flourished towards the end of the th century , was descended from a very good family in the West of England . 
One of the gentlemen set him two guineas , which he won , and then set him four , which he nicked' also . 
This gambler was of low birth , his parents keeping an ordinary in Holland , where he was born , as stated by the old chronicler , in the happy Revolution of . 
His career is remarkable on account of his connection with Lady Mary Mordaunt , wife of the Duke of Norfolk , who , proving her guilty of adultery , was divorced from her . 
She then lived publicly with Germain . 
But in this trick you must observe to put the other three deuces under yours when you deal . 
He appears to have lived with the Duchess of Norfolk ever after the divorce and he died a little after Lady Mary , in , aged years . 
This Irishman was born in Dublin , and was the son of a respectable tradesman . 
Falling into dissipated company , he soon left the city to try his fortune in London , where he played very deep and very successfully . 
He threw away his gains as fast as he made them , chiefly among the frail sisterhood , at a notorious house in those days , in the Piazza , Covent Garden . 
He frequented Carlisle House in Soho Square , and was a proprietor of E O tables kept by a Dr Graham in Pall Mall . 
He had a rencontre , in consequence of a dispute at play , and was wounded . 
The meeting took place under the Piazza , and his antagonist's sword struck a rib , which counteracted its dangerous effect . 
His fortune now changed , and falling into the hands of Old Pope , the money lender , he was not long before he had to transfer his estate to him . 
After many ups and downs he became an inmate of the spunging house of the infamous Scoldwell , who was afterwards transported . 
Perhaps more than half a million of money had passed through his hands . 
ANDREWS , THE GREAT BILLIARD PLAYER . 
He one night won of Colonel W e about a thousand pounds and the Colonel appointed to meet him next day to transact for stock accordingly . 
Going in a hackney coach to the Bank of England for this purpose , they tossed up who should pay for the coach . 
Whig Middleton was a tall , handsome , fashionable man , with an adequate fortune . 
He one night had a run of ill luck at Arthur's , and lost about a thousand guineas . 
Then , resumed Lord Montford , dress directly opposite to the fashion for ten years . 
Will you agree to it ? Middleton said that he would , and kept his word . 
Lord Montford is said to have died in a very different but quite fashionable manner . 
Captain Campbell , of the Guards , was a natural son of the Duke of . 
He lost a thousand guineas to a Shark , which he could not pay . 
Being questioned by the duke one day at dinner as to the cause of his dejection , he reluctantly confessed the fact . 
Sir , said his Grace , you do not owe a farthing to the blackguard . 
WROTHESLY , DUKE OF BEDFORD . 
After being plundered of above L , at Hazard , his Grace rose in a passion , put the dice in his pocket , and intimated his resolution to inspect them . 
He then retired into another room , and , flinging himself upon a sofa , fell asleep . 
The winners , to escape disgrace , and obtain their money , cast lots who should pick his pockets of the loaded dice , and introduce fair ones in their place . 
The lot fell on the manager of the theatre , who performed his part without discovery . 
The duke inspected the dice when he awoke , and finding them correct , renewed his party , and lost L , more . 
He made Nash a handsome present , and ever after gave him his countenance , supposing that the secret had been divulged through pure friendship . 
A similar anecdote is told of another gamester . 
His Grace had them broken in the morning , when , finding them good , he paid the money , and left off gambling . 
Rouge et Noir the Academicians of . 
GENERAL OGLE A BOLD STROKE . 
A few weeks before General Ogle was to sail for India , he constantly attended Paine's , in Charles Street , St James's Square . 
One evening there were before him two wooden bowls full of gold , which held L guineas each , and L in rouleaus , which he had won . 
When the box came to him , he shook the dice and with great coolness and pleasantry said Come , I'll either win or lose seven thousand upon this hand . 
Will any gentleman set on the whole ? SEVEN is the main . 
Then rattling the dice once more , cast the box from him and quitted it , the dice remaining uncovered . 
He then said Well , gentlemen , will you make it up amongst you ? One set him guineas , another . 
Come , said he , whilst you are making up the money I'll tell you a story . 
As if I could make Acts of Parliament ! and could I , it would be very consistent too in me , who for some years played more at Faro than anybody . 
This extraordinary and still famous personage , better known as the Duke of Queensberry , was the observed of all observers' almost from his boyhood to extreme old age . 
He seems also to have been a skilful gamester and player of billiards . 
Writing to George Selwyn from Paris in , he says I won the first day about L , of which I brought off about L . 
All things are exaggerated , I am supposed to have won at least twice as much . 
In he is said to have won two thousand louis of a German at billiards . 
The Duke of Queensberry , then Lord March , was the plaintiff , and a Mr Pigot the defendant . 
the wager was invalid and annulled . 
Jesse , George Selwyn and his Contemporaries , vol . 
This prince of debauchees seems to have surpassed every model of the kind , ancient or modern . 
in his hand , conferred the prize on her whom he deemed the fairest . 
he was in the habit of watching every attractive female form , and ogling every pretty face that met his eye . 
But the hideous propensities of his prime still pursued him when all enjoyment was impossible . 
Can there be a greater penalty for unbridled licentiousness ? MR LUMSDEN . 
He was a martyr to the gout , and his hands and knuckles were a mass of chalk stones . 
Having on one occasion been placed near him at the Rouge et Noir table , I ventured , says Captain Gronow , to expostulate with him for rubbing his knuckles against his slate . 
He coolly answered , I feel relieved when I see the blood ooze out . 
After losing a large fortune at this den of iniquity , Mr Lumsden encountered every evil of poverty , and died in a wretched lodging in the Rue St Marc . 
GENERAL SCOTT , THE HONEST WINNER OF L , . 
The general possessed a great advantage over his companions by avoiding those indulgences at the table which used to muddle other men's brains . 
Bennet , however , after undergoing the imprisonment , managed to get himself discharged without paying the fines . 
Dennis O'Kelly was the Napoleon of the turf and the gaming table . 
His horses occupied him by day and the Hazard table by night . 
The inquirer said he could accommodate him , and desired to know for what sum . 
Dennis O'Kelly answered , I want a FIFTY , or something of THAT SORT , just to set the CASTER . 
The alarm was given , and the hand , from the person behind , was instantly withdrawn , and the notes left sticking out . 
A bet for a large sum was once proposed to this Admirable Crichton' of the turf and the gaming table , and accepted . 
The proposer asked O'Kelly where lay his ESTATES to answer for the amount if he lost ? My estates ! cried O'Kelly . 
Such was the wonderful son of Erin , Captain' or Colonel' Dennis O'Kelly . 
One would like to know what ultimately became of him . 
It was the race week . 
There were about thirteen Greeks there , Dick England at their head . 
Mr B put down L . 
England then called Seven the main if seven or eleven is thrown next , the Caster wins . 
Of course Dick intended to win but he blundered in his operation he LANDED at six and the other did not answer his hopes . 
A Mr D , a gentleman of considerable landed property in the North , proposed passing a few days at Scarborough . 
Dick England saw his carriage enter the town , and contrived to get into his company and go with him to the rooms . 
When the assembly was over , he prevailed on Mr D to sup with him . 
After supper Mr D was completely intoxicated , and every effort to make him play was tried in vain . 
This was , of course , very provoking but still something must be done , and a very clever scheme they hit upon to try and do' this young man from the country . 
The next day , Mr D met Dick England on the cliff and apologized for his excess the night before , hoping he had given no offence when drunk and incapable . 
They parted with gushing civilities between them . 
Besides , had he not received guineas from their friend ? So he assented , and appointed the next morning to settle the matter . 
Dick England was therefore blown' on this occasion . 
Being thus blown' at Scarborough , Dick England and his associates decamped on the following morning . 
He next formed a connection with a lieutenant on half pay , nephew to an Irish earl . 
With this lieutenant he went to Spa , and realized something considerable but not without suspicion for a few dice were missed . 
Dick England returned to London , where he shortly disagreed with the lieutenant . 
The lieutenant determined on revenge for the thrashing . 
This enraged all the blacklegs a combination was formed against the lieutenant and he was shot through the head by a brother officer , who belonged to the confraternity . 
Lord Derby , the first witness , gave evidence that he was present at Ascot races . 
A further altercation ensued but his Lordship being at the other end of the stand , did not distinctly hear it , and then the parties retired . 
Lord Dartrey , afterwards Lord Cremorne , and his lady , with a gentleman , were at the inn at the time the duel was fought . 
They went into the garden and endeavoured to prevent the duel several other persons were collected in the garden . 
His Lordship stood in the bower of the garden until he saw Mr Rowlls fall . 
One or two witnesses were called , who proved nothing material . 
A paper , containing the prisoner's defence , being read , the Earl of Derby , the Marquis of Hertford , Sir Whitbread , jun . 
, Colonel Bishopp , and other gentlemen , were called to his character . 
They all spoke of him as a man of decent gentlemanly deportment , who , instead of seeking quarrels , was studious to avoid them . 
He had been friendly to Englishmen while abroad , and had rendered some service to the military at the siege of Newport . 
Mr Justice Rooke summoned up the evidence after which the jury retired for about three quarters of an hour , when they returned a verdict of manslaughter . 
The prisoner having fled from the laws of his country for twelve years , the Court was disposed to show no lenity . 
He was therefore sentenced to pay a fine of one shilling , and be imprisoned in Newgate twelve months . 
This trial took place in the year , and the facts in evidence give a strange picture of the times . 
On one occasion he was induced when in a state of intoxication to play with Dick England , who claimed , in consequence , winnings to the amount of two hundred guineas . 
Mr le Rowles utterly denied the debt , and was in consequence pursued by England until he was compelled to a duel , in which Mr le Rowles fell . 
He was imprisoned for twelve months . 
England was strongly suspected of highway robberies particularly on one occasion , when his associate , F , was shot dead by Col . 
P on his return from the Curragh races to the town of Naas . 
The Marquis of Hertford , Lords Derby and Cremorne , Colonels Bishopp and Wollaston , and Messrs Whitbread , Breton , c . 
, were evidences in the trial . 
The Gaming Calendar , by Seymour Harcourt . 
It may seem strange that such a man as Dick England could procure such distinguished witnesses to character . 
The thing is easily explained , however . 
They knew the man only as a turf companion . 
We can come to no other conclusion , remembering other instances of the kind . 
For example , the case of Palmer , convicted for the poisoning of Cooke . 
Had Palmer been on his trial merely for fighting a fatal duel there can be no doubt that several noblemen would have come forward to give him a good character . 
There was a TURF ACQUAINTANCESHIP between them , and , of course , all acquaintanceship' may be presumed upon , if we lay ourselves open to the degradation . 
The following is a curious case in point . 
A gentleman of the highest standing and greatest respectability was accosted by a stranger to whom he said Sir , you have the advantage of me . 
When too ill to rise out of his chair , he would be carried in that chair to the Hazard table . 
He was supposed to have been the utter ruin of above forty persons at play . 
The Duc de Mirefois was ambassador at the British Court , and was extremely fond of chess . 
A reverend gentleman being nearly his equal , they frequently played together . 
At that time the clergyman kept a petty day school in a small village , and had a living of not more than twenty pounds a year . 
A young nobleman of very distinguished family undertook to be my conductor . 
Alas ! to what scenes did he introduce me ! To places of debauchery and dens of destruction . 
I need not detail particulars . 
From the lures of the courtesan we went to an adjoining gaming room . 
Though I thought my knowledge of cards superior to those I saw play that night , I touched no card nor dice . 
From this my conductor , a brother officer , and myself adjourned to Pall Mall . 
We returned to our lodgings about six o'clock in the morning . 
I began cautiously , and for some time had reason to be satisfied with my success . 
It enabled me to live expensively . 
I made golden calculations of my future fortune as I improved in skill . 
My manuals were treatises on gaming and chances , and no man understood this doctrine better than I did . 
I , however , did not calculate the disparity of resisting powers my purse with FIFTY guineas , and the Faro bank with a hundred thousand . 
It was ruin only which opened my eyes to this truism at last . 
Good meats , good cooking , and good wines , given gratis and plenteously , at these houses , drew many to them at first , for the sake of the society . 
Among them I one evening chanced to see a clerical prig , who was incumbent of a parish adjoining that in which my mother lived . 
I was intoxicated with wine and pleasure , when I , on this occasion , entered a haunt of ruin and enterprising avarice in Pall Mall . 
I played high and lost in proportion . 
The spirit of adventure was now growing on me every day . 
I was sometimes very successful . 
Yet my health was impaired , and my temper soured by the alternation of good and bad fortune , and my pity or contempt for those with whom I associated . 
Were the Commissioners of Bankruptcy to know how many citizens are prepared for them at those houses , they would be bound to thank them . 
It was my determination , however , if fortune favoured me through the night , never to tempt her more . 
I had lost L guineas , which I had brought with me from the Hazard table , together with L which the bank advanced me on my credit . 
There they stopped and , with an apathy peculiar to themselves , listened to a torrent of puerile abuse which I vented against them in my despair . 
Two days and two nights I shut myself up , to indulge in the most racking reflections . 
I was ruined beyond repair , and I had , on the third morning , worked myself up to resort for relief to a loaded pistol . 
This was the voice of a guardian angel in the moment of despair . 
These gentlemen have friends in every department . 
This offer I declined and after having paid my tradesman's bill , I left London with only eleven guineas in my pocket . 
I married the best of women , my preserver , and have ever since lived in real comfort and happiness , on an income less than one hundred pounds a year . 
A stranger plainly dressed took his seat at a Faro table , when the bank was richer than usual . 
After some little routine play , he challenged the bank , and tossed his pocket book to the banker that he might be satisfied of his responsibility . 
It was found to contain bills to an immense amount and on the banker showing reluctance to accept the challenge , the stranger sternly demanded compliance with the laws of the game . 
The card soon turned up which decided the ruin of the banker . 
A servant speedily returned , and presented the officer with the twentieth part of the bank , adding My master requires no answer , sir , and went out . 
The successful stranger was soon recognized to be the great King of Prussia in disguise . 
THE LOTTERIES AND THEIR BEWILDERMENTS . 
In all this , however , the distinctive character of modern lotteries was totally absent the tickets were always gratuitous so that if the people did not win anything , they never lost . 
The practice afterwards descended to the merchants and in Italy , during the th century , it became a favourite mode of disposing of their wares . 
in order to form a particular council . 
Some persons took this opportunity of laying bets that the lot would fall on such or such senators . 
The French borrowed the idea from the Italians . 
From the year the state derived a revenue from the lotteries , although from to the French parliament repeatedly endeavoured to suppress them as social evils . 
At the marriage of Louis XIV . 
a lottery was organized to distribute the royal presents to the people after the fashion of the Roman emperor . 
Lotteries were multiplied during this reign and that of Louis XV . 
In the Royal Lottery of France was established . 
This was abolished in , re established at the commencement of the Republic but finally all lotteries were prohibited by law in , excepting for benevolent purposes . 
One of the most remarkable of these lotteries for benevolent purposes' was the Lottery of the Gold Lingots , authorized in , to favour emigration to California . 
In this lottery the grand prize was a lingot of gold valued at about L . 
The old French lottery consisted of numbers , that is , from No. to No. , and the drawing was five numbers at a time . 
Five wheels were established at Paris , Lyons , Strasbourg , Bordeaus , and Lille . 
A drawing took place every ten days at each city . 
The first English lottery mentioned in history was drawn in the year . 
It consisted of , lots , at s . 
The prizes were plate and the profits were to go towards repairing the havens or ports of this kingdom . 
It was drawn at the west door of St Paul's Cathedral . 
The drawing began on the th of January , , and continued incessantly , DAY AND NIGHT , till the th of May following . 
Another lottery was held at the same place in , King James having permitted it in favour of the plantation of English colonies in Virginia . 
One Thomas Sharplys , a tailor of London , won the chief prize , which was crowns in fair plate . 
The printed scheme of this lottery is still in the possession of the Antiquarian Society of London . 
In , a lottery was granted to supply London with water . 
The tickets were all disposed of in less than six months , friends and enemies joining in the speculation . 
The first parliamentary lottery was instituted in , and from this period till the passing of a lottery bill was in the programme of every session . 
Up to the close of the th century the prizes were generally paid in the form of terminable , and sometimes of perpetual , annuities . 
Loans were also raised by granting a bonus of lottery tickets to all who subscribed a certain amount . 
The last public lottery in Great Britain was drawn in October , . 
The lotteries exerted a most baneful influence on trade , by relaxing the sinews of industry and fostering the destructive spirit of gaming among all orders of men . 
was much greater than adequate to the risk . 
Thus , in , when the just premium of the lottery was only s . 
, the office keepers charged s . 
, which was a certain gain of nearly per cent . 
and they aggravated the fraud as the drawing advanced . 
On the sixteenth day of drawing the just premium was not quite s . 
, whereas the office keepers charged L s . 
, which clearly shows the great disadvantage that every person laboured under who was imprudent enough to be concerned in the insurance of numbers . 
, and also to the desperate state of certain branches of trade , caused by numerous and important bankruptcies . 
The suicides increased in proportion . 
Among them one person made herself remarkable by a thoughtful provision to prevent disappointment . 
The capital prizes were so large that they excited the eagerness of hope but the sum secured by the government was small when compared with the infinite mischief it occasioned . 
, and then there would remain a net produce of L , . 
This term is still in use . 
I recently asked one of the craft if he called himself a translator . 
Yes , sir , not of languages , but old boots and shoes , was the reply . 
This reasoning , however , is very uncertain . 
A great number of foreign lotteries still exist in vigorous operation . 
Some are supported by the state , and others are only authorized most of them are flourishing . 
In Germany , especially , lotteries are abundant immense properties are disposed of by this method . 
The bank' gains , of course , enormously and , also of course , a great deal of trickery and swindling , or something like it , is perpetrated . 
Foreign lottery tickets are now and then illegally offered in England . 
A few years ago there appeared an advertisement in the papers , offering a considerable income for the payment of one or two pounds . 
Upon inquiry it was found to be the agency of a foreign lottery ! These tempting offers of advertising speculators are a cruel addition to the miseries of misfortune . 
deducted in expenses and otherwise but nothing can compensate for the pernicious effects of the spirit of gambling which is fostered by lotteries , however fairly conducted . 
They are an unmitigated evil . 
In the United States lotteries were established by Congress in , but , save in the Southern States , heavy penalties are now imposed on persons attempting to establish them . 
I need scarcely say that lotteries , whether foreign or British , are utterly forbidden by law , excepting those of Art Unions . 
It is thought , however , that they tend to keep up the spirit of gambling , and therefore ought not to be allowed even on the specious plea of favouring art . 
PRIVATE lotteries are now illegal at Common Law in Great Britain and Ireland and penalties are also incurred by the advertisers of FOREIGN lotteries . 
Some years ago it became common in Scotland to dispose of merchandise by means of lotteries but this is specially condemned in the statute Geo . 
The decision rested upon the plea that in such a transaction there was no definite sale of a specific article . 
Even the lotteries for Twelfth Cakes , c . 
, are illegal , and render their conductors liable to the penalties of the law . 
rigorously prohibited throughout the country . 
These attempts to enforce rigidly the provisions of the and William III . 
We cannot say whether or not the harm produced by these humble lotteries is sufficient to render their forcible suppression a matter of necessity . 
The sanitary laws require putting into operation quite as much as the laws against public house lotteries and skittles . 
One of these lotteries , called the Deptford Spec . 
, was not long ago suppressed by the strong arm of the law but others still exist under different names . 
Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast . 
H. S. M. will , at those drawing rooms and receptions , NUMBER a lot of beasts , and distribute a series of REWARDS , varying in value from L to s . 
of her Britannic Majesty's money . 
Tickets One Shilling each , application for which must be made BY LETTER to His S. Majesty's Chamberlain , c . 
The LAST DRAWING ROOM of this season will be held a few days before the Feast of the CROYDON STEEPLECHASES , c . 
THE LAWS AGAINST GAMING IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES . 
In ancient Rome all games of chance , with the exception of five which had relation to bodily vigour , were absolutely prohibited in public or private . 
No surety for the payment of money for gambling purposes was bound . 
The betting on lawful games was restricted to a certain amount , beyond which the loser could recover moneys paid , and could not be sued for the amount . 
Children and freedmen could recover their losses as against their parents and patrons . 
Cicero , in his second Philippic , speaks of a criminal process then in force against gamblers . 
The laws of ancient Rome were , therefore , very stringent on this subject , although , there can be no doubt , without much effect . 
, and may be deprived of most of their civil rights . 
By the Prussian Code all games of chance , except when licensed by the state , are prohibited . 
Gaming debts are not the subjects of action but moneys paid cannot be sued for by losers . 
Moneys lent for gambling or betting purposes , or to pay gambling or betting debts , cannot be sued for . 
Gaming house keepers and gamblers are punishable with fine professed gamblers with imprisonment . 
Occasional cheating at play obliges to compensation professed swindlers at play are punishable as for theft , and banished afterwards . 
Moneys won from a drunken man , if to a considerable amount , must be returned , and a fine paid of equal value . 
In Austria no right of action is given either to the winner or the loser . 
All games of chance are prohibited except when licensed by the state . 
Cheating at play is punished with imprisonment , according to the amount of fraudulent gain . 
Playing at unlawful games , or allowing such to take place in one's house , subjects the party to a heavy fine , or in default , to imprisonment . 
By the Bavarian Code games of skill , and of mixed skill and chance , are not forbidden . 
In cases of fraudulent and excessive gaming , and in all games of mere chance , the winner cannot claim his winnings , but must repay the loser on demand . 
Hotel and coffee house keepers , c . 
The punishment of private persons for the like offence is left to the discretion of the judge . 
IMMORAL wagers are void and EXCESSIVE wagers are to be reduced in amount . 
Betting on indifferent things is not prohibited , nor even as to a known and certain thing when there is no deception . 
No wager is void on account of mere disparity of odds . 
Although , therefore , cheating gamblers are liable to punishment in Bavaria , it is evident that gambling is there tolerated to the utmost extent required by the votaries of Fortune . 
Wagers appear to be lawful in Spain , when not in themselves fraudulent , or relating to anything illegal or immoral . 
The first of the strictly called Gaming Acts is one of Charles II . 
's reign , which was intended to check the habit of gambling so prevalent then , as before stated . 
It is quite certain that it was inoperative , and that it did no more than express the conscience of the legislature in deference to PRINCIPLE , which nobody could deny . 
After the lapse of many years the evil being on the increase the legislature stirred again during the reign of George II . 
, and passed several Acts against gaming . 
The games of Faro , Basset , Hazard , c . 
, in fact , all games with dice , were proscribed under a penalty of L against the provider of the game , and L a time for the players . 
Roulette or Roly Poly , termed in the Act a certain pernicious game , was interdicted , under the penalty of five times the value of the thing or sum lost at it . 
It was admitted that the laws in force against gaming were of no avail to prevent the mischiefs which may happen therefrom and the lawgivers enacted a comprehensive measure on the subject . 
Much of the old law for instance , the prohibition of games which interfered with the practice of ARCHERY was repealed also the Acts of Charles II . 
, of Queen Anne , and a part of that of George II . 
Licensed for Billiards' must be legibly printed on some conspicuous place near the door and outside a licensed house . 
Publicans whose houses are licensed for billiards must not allow persons to play at any time when public houses are not allowed to be open . 
Those who shall appear as witnesses , moreover , are protected from the consequences of having been engaged in unlawful gaming . 
The penalty of cheating at any game is liability to penal servitude for three years the delinquent being proceeded against as one who obtains money under false pretences . 
All betting houses are gaming houses within the meaning of the Act , and the proprietors and managers of them are punishable accordingly . 
The existing law on the gaming of horse racing is as follows . 
Bets on horse races are illegal and therefore are not recoverable by law . 
These LEGAL reasons are too often sadly out of place . 
Any constable , however , may , without a warrant , arrest anybody he may see in the act of betting in the street . 
The laws relating to horse racing have undergone curious revisions and interpretations . 
The law of George II . 
Now , it was supposed that upon the Act of the thirteenth of George II . 
depended the whole legality of horse racing , that the Act of the eighteenth of George II . 
was merely explanatory of that statute , which , being repealed , brought the practice again within the old law , according to which it was illegal . 
By a judgment of the Court of Common Pleas it was decided , however , that the words of the eighteenth of George II . 
were large enough to legalize all races anywhere for fifty pounds and upwards , and that the Act was not merely an explanatory one . 
Upon this basis rests the existing law on the subject of horse racing . 
Only recently has any effectual check been put to this pernicious practice . 
On this provision a daily paper justly remarks A statute very much needed has come into force . 
Persons playing or betting in the streets with coins or cards are now made amenable to the th George IV . 
, and may be committed to gaol as rogues and vagabonds . 
The statutes already in force against such rogues and vagabonds subject them , we believe , not only to imprisonment with hard labour , but also to corporal punishment . 
But the race of London beadles is now well nigh extinct and the few that remain dare not use their switches on the small vagabonds , for fear of being summoned for assault . 
