Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE GAMING TABLE ITS VOTARIES AND VICTIMS , In all Times and Countries , especially in England and in France . 
BY ANDREW STEINMETZ , ESQ . 
, OF THE MIDDLE TEMPLE , BARRISTER AT LAW FIRST CLASS EXTRA CERTIFICATE SCHOOL OF MUSKETRY , HYTHE late OFFICER INSTRUCTOR MUSKETRY , THE QUEENS OWN LIGHT INFANTRY MILITIA . 
AUTHOR OF 'THE HISTORY OF THE JESUITS , 'JAPAN AND HER PEOPLE , 'THE ROMANCE OF DUELLING , c . 
I. CHEVALIERS D'INDUSTRIE , OR POLITE SHARPERS II . 
PROFESSIONAL GAMESTERS AND THEIR FRAUDS III . 
ANECDOTES OF THE PASSIONS AND VICISSITUDES OF GAMESTERS IV . 
SUICIDES , AND EXECUTION OF GAMBLERS V. ODDITIES AND WITTICISMS OF GAMBLERS VI . 
DOINGS IN GAMING HOUSES VIII . 
THE DOCTRINE OF PROBABILITIES APPLIED TO GAMBLING IX . 
THE HISTORY OF DICE AND CARDS X. PIQUET , BASSET , FARO , HAZARD , PASSE DIX , PUT , CROSS AND PILE , THIMBLE RIG XI . 
THE TURF , HISTORICAL , SOCIAL , MORAL XIII . 
AMUSING CARD TRICKS THE GAMING TABLE . 
CHAPTER I. CHEVALIERS D'INDUSTRIE , OR POLITE SHARPERS . 
Chevaliers d'industrie , or polite and accomplished sharpers , have always existed in every city , from the earliest times to the present . 
The ordinary progress of these interesting gentlemen is as follows . 
Their debut is often difficult , and many of them are stopped short in their career . 
They only succeed by means of great exertion and severe trials but they endure everything in order to be tolerated or permitted to exercise their calling . 
To secure credit they ally themselves with men of respectability , or those who pass for such . 
When they have no titles they fabricate them and few persons dispute their claims . 
They are found useful for the pleasures of society , the expenses of which they often pay at the cost of the dupes they make in the world . 
The 'protector' next hands over his 'young friends' to 'executioners , who fleece them for the common benefit of the confederates . 
They do not always wait for the coming of age of their young dupes in order to strike the grand 'stroke . 
When they find that the father of a family shudders at the idea of a public scandal , they immolate their victim at once for fear lest he should escape from their hands . 
Of course they are always open to 'capitulate' to come to terms and if the aid of the law is invoked they give in discreetly . 
About a century ago there flourished at Paris one of these adventurers , who made a great noise and did a vast amount of evil . 
Although a man of ardent temperament and inconceivable activity , his cold blooded rascality was never in a hurry . 
He could wait he could bide his time . 
Sometimes he gave a concert for amateurs , elegant suppers for gay ladies , and special soirees for the learned and the witty . 
He had twenty Faro tables in operation every night , whilst his emissaries were on the watch for new arrivals , and for those who had recently come into property . 
Thus , if accused of usury , he could prove that he had lent , without interest , considerable sums of money . 
Even his more than suspected probity was defended by such as believed themselves his depositaries , whereas they were , in point of fact , only receivers of stolen property . 
Affable , insinuating to a degree , he might be compared to those brigands of Egypt who embraced their victims in order to strangle them . 
He never showed more devotedness than when he meditated some perfidy , nor more assurance than when convicted of the rascality . 
Dusaulx , De la Passion du Jeu . 
The following narrative elucidates a still more modern phase of this elegant 'industry . 
My authority is M. Robert Houdin . 
M. Olivier de was a dissipated young gentleman . 
His family was one of the oldest and most respectable of the country , and deservedly enjoyed the highest consideration . 
Among the companions of his dissipation was a young man whose abundant means filled him with admiration and envy he lived like a prince and had not a single creditor . 
The tempter , moreover , offered to initiate his listener in his infallible method of getting rich . 
Taking Olivier to his house , he showed him a pack of cards . 
'Well , said Chauvignac , 'nevertheless they have been subjected to a preparation called biseautage , or having one end of the cards made narrower than the other . 
This disposition enables us to remove from the pack such and such cards and then to class them in the necessary order so that they may get into the hand of the operator . 
Having thus , as he thought , sufficiently compromised his victim , Chauvignac left him to his temptations , and took leave of him . 
Two days afterwards the professor returned to his pupil and invited him to accompany him on a pleasure trip . 
Olivier excused himself on account of his desperate condition one of his creditors being in pursuit of him for a debt of one thousand francs . 
'Is that all ? said Chauvignac and pulling out his pocket book he added , 'Here's a bank note you can repay me to morrow . 
'Why , man , you are mad ! exclaimed Olivier . 
'Be it so , said Chauvignac 'and in my madness I give you credit for another thousand franc bank note to go and get thirty thousand francs which are waiting for you . 
'Now , do explain yourself , for you are driving ME mad . 
Here is the fact , said Chauvignac . 
This millionnaire must be thinned a little . 
One of my friends and confreres , named Chaffard , is already with the count to prepare the way . 
We have only now to set to work . 
You are one of us that's agreed and in a few days you will return , to satisfy your creditors and buy your mistress a shawl . 
You are going too fast . 
I haven't as yet said Yes , replied Olivier . 
'I don't want your Yes now you will say it at Boulogne . 
For the present go and pay your bill . 
We set out in two hours the post horses are already ordered we shall start from my house be punctual . 
The party reached Boulogne and put up at the Hotel de l'Univers . 
On their arrival they were informed that no time was to be lost , as the count talked of leaving next day . 
The two travellers took a hasty dinner , and at once proceeded to the apartment of the Belgian millionnaire . 
Chaffard , who had preceded them , introduced them as two of his friends , whose property was situated in the vicinity of Boulogne . 
M. le Comte de Vandermool was a man about fifty years of age , with an open , candid countenance . 
He wore several foreign decorations . 
He received the two gentlemen with charming affability he did more he invited them to spend the evening with him . 
Of course the invitation was accepted . 
When the conversation began to flag , the count proposed a game which was also , of course , very readily agreed to by the three comperes . 
While the table was prepared , Chauvignac gave his young friend two packs of cards , to be substituted for those which should be furnished by the count . 
The count , enormously rich as he was , would only play for bank notes . 
'Metal smells bad in a room , he said . 
The result was that the only thousand franc bank note he had was speedily transferred to the count . 
His work was of the easiest the count was so short sighted that he had to keep his nose almost upon the cards to see them . 
At length , however , he said with a smile , taking a pinch from his golden snuff box 'I am evidently not in vein . 
I have lost eighty thousand francs . 
I see that I shall soon be in for one hundred thousand . 
Perhaps this will change my vein . 
I think you will grant me this indulgence . 
The proposal was agreed to . 
Alas ! the whole thing was only an infamous conspiracy to ruin the young man . 
At the moment when the latter left the card table to go to Chauvignac , the pretended millionnaire changed the pack of cards they had been using for two other packs . 
Supper went off very pleasantly . 
They drank very moderately , for the head had to be kept cool for what had to follow . 
They soon sat down again at the card table . 
'Now , said the Parisian card shaper , on resuming his seat , 'I should like to end the matter quickly I will stake the twenty thousand francs in a lump . 
Olivier , confident of success after his previous achievement , readily assented but , alas , the twenty thousand francs of which he made sure was won by his adversary . 
Forty thousand francs went in like manner . 
Olivier , breathless , utterly prostrate , knew not what to do . 
All his manoeuvres were practised in vain he could give himself none but small cards . 
The wretched young man went on , and lost again . 
! At this point the horrible denouement commenced . 
The pretended count stopped , and crossing his arms on his breast , said sternly 'Monsieur Olivier de , you must be very rich to stake so glibly such enormous sums . 
Besides , I have given you the example . 
Begin , therefore , by putting down the sum I have won from you after which we can go on . 
'Nothing can be more proper , sir , stammered out young Olivier , 'I am ready to satisfy you but , after all , you know that . 
'The d l ! sir , said the pretended count , giving the table a violent blow with his fist 'Why do you talk to me about your WORD . 
Gad ! You are well entitled to appeal to the engagements of honour ! Well ! We have now to play another game on this table , and we must speak out plainly . 
Monsieur Olivier de , you are a rogue . 
Yes , a rogue ! The cards we have been using are biseautees and YOU brought them hither . 
You insult me ! said Olivier . 
'Indeed ? Well , sir , that astonishes me ! replied the false Belgian ironically . 
'That is too much , sir . 
I demand satisfaction , and that on the very instant . 
Do you understand me ? Let us go out at once . 
'No ! no ! We must end this quarrel here , sir . 
Look here your two friends shall be your seconds I am now going to send for MINE . 
The card sharper , who had risen at these words , rang the bell violently . 
'Go , said he , 'to the Procureur de Roi , and request him to come here on a very important matter . 
Be as quick as you can . 
'Oh , sir , be merciful ! Don't ruin me ! exclaimed the wretched Olivier 'I will do what you like . 
At these words , the sharper told his servant to wait behind the door , and to execute his order if he should hear nothing to the contrary in ten minutes . 
'And now , sir , continued the sharper , turning to Olivier , 'and now , sir , for the business between you and me . 
These cards have been substituted by you in the place of those which I supplied . 
You must do them up , write your name upon the cover , and seal it with the coat of arms on your ring . 
Olivier looked first at Chauvignac and then at Chaffard , but both the fellows only made signs to him to resign himself to the circumstances . 
He did what was ordered . 
'That is not all , sir , added the false Belgian 'I have fairly won money from you and have a right to demand a guarantee for payment . 
You must draw me short bills for the sum of one hundred thousand francs . 
As the wretched young man hesitated to comply with this demand , his pitiless creditor rose to ring the bell . 
'Don't ring , sir , don't ring , said Olivier , 'I'll sign . 
He signed , and the villany was consummated . 
Olivier returned to his family and made an humble avowal of his fault and his engagements . 
His venerable father received the terrible blow with resignation , and paid the , francs , estimating his honour far above that amount of money . 
This narrative is condensed from the account of the affair by Robert Hondin , Tricherics des Grecs devoilees . 
AN ATTORNEY 'DONE' BY A GAMBLER . 
He had heard of an attorney in the town who was very fond of Backgammon and on this simple piece of information an elaborate plan was concocted . 
Mr H e feigned illness , went to bed , and sent for a large quantity of tartar emetic , which he took . 
On the second day he asked the doctor , with great gravity , if he considered him in danger , adding , 'because he had never made a WILL to bequeath his property . 
The doctor replied , 'No , not in absolute danger , but there was no harm in making a WILL . 
The attorney , accordingly , was sent for of course the very man wished for the lover of Backgammon before mentioned . 
about L , , which no man ever heard of , living or dead . 
The BUSINESS being done , the patient said that if he had a moment's relaxation he thought he should rally and overcome the malady . 
The poor lawyer said if he could in any way contribute to his comfort he should be happy . 
The offer was embraced by observing that if he could sit up in bed but he was afraid he was not able a hit at Backgammon would be a great source of amusement . 
The lawyer , like all adepts in such matters , was only too willing to catch at the idea the board was brought . 
They played but the lawyer was gammoned almost incessantly , till he lost L . 
He lost and became almost frantic . 
In the midst of his excessive grief , H e said , 'You have a HORSE , what is it worth ? L was the answer . 
'Well , well , you may win all back now , and I'll set L on your horse . 
Lost ! 'You have a COW in your paddock , haven't you ? What's that worth ? asked Mr H e . 
'Well , I'll set that sum by way of giving you a chance . 
The game proceeded , and the poor lawyer , equally unfortunate , raved and swore he had lost his last shilling . 
'No , no ! said H e , you have not I saw a HAY RICK in your ground . 
It is of no use now that the horse and cow are gone what is that worth ? L , replied the attorney , with a sigh . 
'I set L then , said H e . 
This seemed to be 'rather too much' for the lawyer . 
The loss of the hay rick like the last straw laid on the overladen camel's back staggered him . 
Besides , he thought he saw as doubtless he did see H e twisting his fingers round one of the dice . 
An Archbishop of Canterbury was once on a tour , when a genteel man , apparently in earnest conversation , though alone in a wood , attracted his notice . 
His Grace made up to him , and , after a little previous conversation , asked him what he was about . 
'At play ? With whom ? I see nobody . 
'I own , sir , my antagonist is not visible I am playing with God . 
'At what game , pray , sir ? Str . 
'Do you play for anything ? Str . 
'You cannot have any chance , as your adversary must be so superior to you . 
'He takes no advantage , but plays merely as a man . 
'When you win or lose , how do you settle accounts ? Str . 
'Indeed ! Pray , how stands your game now ? Str . 
'There ! I have just lost ! Abp . 
'How much have you lost ? Str . 
'How do you manage to pay it ? Does God take your money ? Str . 
'No ! The poor are his treasurers . 
He always sends some worthy person to receive it , and you are at present his purse bearer . 
Saying this , the stranger put fifty guineas into his Grace's hand , and retired , adding 'I shall play no more to day . 
The prelate was delighted though he could not tell what to make of this extraordinary man . 
The guineas were all good and the archbishop applied them to the use of the poor , as he had been directed . 
'How has the chance stood since we met before ? Str . 
'Sometimes for me sometimes against me . 
I have lost and won . 
'Are you at play now ? Str . 
We have played several games to day . 
'The advantage is on my side . 
The game is just over . 
I have a fine stroke check mate there it is . 
'How much have you won ? Str . 
'That is a large sum . 
How are you to he paid ? Str . 
'God always sends some good rich man when I win , and YOU are the person . 
He is remarkably punctual on these occasions . 
The archbishop had received a considerable sum on that day , as the stranger knew and so , producing a pistol by way of receipt , he compelled the delivery of it . 
Se non e vero e ben trovato . 
This was a great honour for the latter , as he found his employer was a baron . 
The end is of course guessed . 
'It was the only case in my experience of the work going on smoothly after such a break . 
I never could account for it , nor could Mr Chase . 
A vast deal of gambling still goes on with skittles all over the country . 
The bets were , accordingly , very high . 
The instances revealed by exposure at the police courts give but a faint idea of the extent of skittle sharping . 
Amidst such abuses of the game , it can scarcely surprise us that the police have been recently directed to prohibit all playing at skittles and bowls . 
PROFESSIONAL GAMESTERS AND THEIR FRAUDS . 
A gambling house at the end of the last century was conducted by the following officials . 
A Commissioner , who was always a proprietor who looked in of a night , and audited the week's account with two other proprietors . 
A Director , who superintended the room . 
An Operator , who dealt the cards at the cheating game called Faro . 
Two Croupiers , or crow pees , as they were vulgarly called , whose duty it was to watch the cards and gather or rake in the money for the bank . 
Two Puffs , who had money given to them to decoy others to play . 
A Clerk , who was a check on the Puffs , to see that they sank none of the money given to them to play with . 
A Squib , who was a puff of a lower rank , serving at half salary , whilst learning to deal . 
A Flasher , to swear how often the bank had been stripped by lucky players . 
A Dunner , who went about to recover money lost at play . 
A Waiter , to fill out wine , snuff candles , and attend the room . 
An Attorney , who was generally a Newgate solicitor . 
A Captain , who was to fight any gentleman who might be peevish at losing his money . 
An Usher , who lighted the gentlemen up and down stairs , and gave the word to the porter . 
A Porter , who was generally a soldier of the Foot Guards . 
An Orderly man , who walked up and down the outside of the door , to give notice to the porter , and alarm the house at the approach of the constables . 
A Runner , who was to get intelligence of the Justices' meetings . 
Link Boys , Coachmen , Chairmen , Drawers , and others , who brought the first intelligence of Justices' meetings , of constables going out , at half a guinea reward . 
Common Bail , Affidavit Men , Ruffians , Bravos , Assassins , c . 
It may be proper to remark that the above list of officials was only calculated for gambling houses of an inferior order . 
In these it is evident that the fear of interruption and the necessity for precaution presided over the arrangements . 
There were others , however , which seemed to defy law , to spurn at justice , and to remain secure , in every way , by the 'respectability' of their frequenters . 
, to be conversant with a few etiquettes of good breeding and sentiments of modern or current honour , in order to be received with affability and courteous attention in the highest circles . 
The vilest sharper , having once gained admission , was sure of constant entertainment , for nothing formed a greater cement of union than the spirit of HIGH GAMING . 
'How shalt THOU to Caesar's hall repair ? For , ah ! no DAMAGED coat can enter there ! BEATTIE'S Minstrel . 
So called because rooks are famous for stealing materials out of other birds' nests to build their own . 
The follies and vices of others of open hearted youth in particular were the great game or pursuit of this odious crew . 
Though cool and dispassionate themselves , they did all in their power to throw others off their guard , that they might make their advantage of them . 
In others they promoted excess of all kinds , whilst they themselves took care to maintain the utmost sobriety and temperance . 
Like wise traders , they made it the business of their lives to excel in their calling . 
Of these none were more efficacious , because none are more ensnaring , than bribing their young and artless dupes to future play by suffering them to win at their first onsets . 
By rising a winner the dupe imbibed a confidence in his own gambling abilities , or deemed himself a favourite of fortune . 
When rendered thus secure of their prey , they began to level their whole train of artillery against the boasted honours of his short lived triumph . 
Then the extensive manors , the ancient forests , the paternal mansions , began to tremble for their future destiny . 
The pigeon was marked down , and the infernal crew began in good earnest to pluck his rich plumage . 
The wink was given on his appearance in the room , as a signal of commencing their covert attacks . 
Besides this , the card was marked , or 'slipped , or COVERED . 
The cards were packed , or cut , or even SWALLOWED . 
A card has been eaten between two slices of bread and butter , for the purpose of concealment . 
With wily craft the sharpers substituted their deceitful 'doctors' or false dice and thus 'crabs , or 'a losing game , became the portion of the 'flats , or dupes . 
There were different ways of throwing dice . 
The 'Long Gallery' was when the dice were flung or hurled the whole length of the board . 
Sometimes the dice were thrown off the table , near a confederate , who , in picking them up , changed one of the fair for a false die with two sixes . 
This was generally done at the first throw , and at the last , when the fair die was replaced . 
The sixes were on the opposite squares , so that the fraud could only be detected by examination . 
Of course this trick could only be practised at raffles , where only three throws are required . 
Having won his stake he repeated it as often as he thought proper . 
Two gambling adventurers would set out with a certain number of signs and signals . 
The use of the handkerchief during the game was the certain evidence of a good hand . 
The use of the snuff box a sign equally indicative of a bad one . 
An affected cough , apparently as a natural one , once , twice , three , or four times repeated , was an assurance of so many honours in hand . 
FOR WHICH REASON ALL NICE GAMSTERS PLAY BEHIND CURTAINS . 
'Dealing the cards out by one and one to each person is the best method of putting it out of the dealer's power to impose on you . 
All which will appear presently . 
'Of brief cards there are two sorts one is a card longer than the rest , the other is a card broader than the rest . 
ace , king , queen , or knave , c . 
, which is sufficient advantage to secure any game . 
'The next is the corner bend , which is four cards turned down finely at one corner a signal to cut by . 
'The other is vulgarly called Kingston bridge , or the middle bend . 
'The next thing to be considered is , who deals the cards , you or your adversary because that is a main point , and from whence your advantage must arise . 
Suppose , for example , Sharpers , A and B Partners , Bubbles , or Flats , C and D Partners . 
'When C or D deals , they must be taken up thus . 
'By this rule it is plain that the best cards fall to A and B every deal . 
It may be truly said that many an honest gentleman has been kept a month in such a condition by the management and contrivance of a set of sharpers . 
pass upon any person that has not been let into the secret . 
This being allowed , the next point and difficulty is to shuffle and cut . 
There is another method , namely , by uttering words . 
Indeed signifies diamonds truly , hearts upon my word , clubs I assure you , spades . 
I now quote Robert Houdin's account of CARD TELEGRAPHY . 
Such evolutions , however , are totally unworthy of your modern Greek , and would soon be denounced as gross fraud . 
The signals which he employs are only appreciable by his confederate , as follows If he looks . 
At his confederate , he designates A king . 
At the play of his adversary . 
And whilst he indicates the nature of the cards he at the same time makes known the colour by the following signs . 
The upper lip slightly pouting over the lower . 
The lower lip drawn over the upper . 
It is evident that this telegraphy may be employed at all games where there is a gallery . 
These are the simplest signs but some of the Greeks have a great number of them , to designate everything and even sometimes to communicate and receive intelligence , when necessary . 
This telegraphy is so imperceptible that it is difficult to describe it , and altogether impossible to detect it . 
I find , nevertheless , in his book , under the title of 'Small Trickeries made innocent by Custom , certain things alluded to which I can attest by experience . 
Whist is , decidedly , one of the fairest of games but for that very reason , it is open to the greatest over reaching , or , if you like , cheating . 
With regard to dice , of course , they were and , doubtless , are still loaded . 
Such were formerly called 'dispatches , because they would 'in five minutes dispatch L out of the pocket of any young man when intoxicated with champagne . 
Roulette and Rouge et Noir tables were and are so arranged as always to make the bank win at the will of the attendant , regulating them with a touch . 
ANECDOTES OF THE PASSIONS AND VICISSITUDES OF GAMESTERS . 
We may rest assured that as long as intellectual man exists the problem will be considered unsolved , and the question will be agitated . 
Something NEW will always be wanted . 
'Sensation' is the very life of humanity it is motion the reverse of 'death' which we all abhor . 
The gamester lives only for the 'sensation' of gaming . 
Menage tells us of a gamester who declared that he had never seen any luminary above the horizon but the moon . 
Saint Evremond , writing to the Count de Grammont , says 'You play from morning to night , or rather from night to morning . 
All the rays of the gamester's existence terminate in play it is on this centre that his very existence depends . 
He enjoys not an hour of calm or serenity . 
During the day he longs for night , and during the night he dreads the return of day . 
Being always pre occupied , gamesters are subject to a ridiculous absence of mind . 
Tacitus tells us that the Emperor Vitellius was so torpid that he would have forgotten he was a prince unless people had reminded him of it from time to time . 
Many gamesters have forgotten that they were husbands and fathers . 
During play some one said that the government were about to levy a tax on bachelors . 
'Then I shall be ruined ! exclaimed one of the players absorbed in the game . 
'Why , man , you have a wife and five children , said the speaker . 
Tanta torpedo invaserat animum Vitellii , ut si principem eum fuisse non meminissent , ipse oblivisceretur . 
This infatuation may be simply ridiculous but it has also a horrible aspect . 
A distracted wife has rushed to the gaming table , imploring her husband , who had for two entire days been engaged at play , to return to his home . 
'Only let me stay one moment longer only one moment . 
I shall return perhaps the day after to morrow , he stammered out to the wretched woman , who retired . 
Alas ! he returned sooner than he had promised . 
His wife was in bed , holding the last of her children to her breast . 
'Get up , madam , said the ruined gambler , 'the bed on which you lie belongs to us no longer ! . 
When the gamester is fortunate , he enjoys his success elsewhere to his home he brings only consternation . 
A wife had received the most solemn promise from her husband that he would gamble no more . 
One night , however , he slunk out of bed , rushed to the gaming table , and lost all the money he had with him . 
He tried to borrow more , but was refused . 
His wife had taken the precaution to lock the drawer that contained their last money . 
Vain obstacle ! The madman broke it open , carried off two thousand crowns to take his revenge , as he said , but in reality to lose the whole as before . 
What is visible , however , is nothing in comparison to the secret agony . 
It is in his heart that the tempest roars most fiercely . 
Two players once exhibited their rage , the one by a mournful silence , the other by repeated imprecations . 
The latter , shocked at the sang froid of his neighbour , reproached him for enduring , without complaint , such losses one after the other . 
'Look here ! said the other , uncovering his breast and displaying it all bloody with lacerations . 
After having lost quietly , and even with serenity , half his fortune , the father of a family staked the remainder , and lost it without a murmur . 
Facere solent extrema securos mala . 
The bystanders looked at him his features changed not only it was perceived that they were fixed . 
It seemed that he was unconscious of life . 
Two streams of tears trickled from his eyes , and yet his features remained the same . 
He was literally a weeping statue . 
The spectators were seized with fright , and , although gamesters , they melted into pity . 
'Great calamities render us CARELESS . 
Dusaulx states that he was told the fact by a lieutenant general , who was an eye witness . 
Dusaulx assures us that he saw an enraged gambler put a burning candle into his mouth , chew it , and swallow it . 
The other players took to flight the officers of justice visited the place and the corpse was deprived of the usual ceremony of burial . 
Gazette de Deux Ponts , du Novembre , . 
The following strange but apparently authentic fact , is related in the Mercure Francois . 
'A man named Pennichon , being a prisoner in the Conciergerie during the month of September , , died there of a wonderfully sudden death . 
He could not refrain from play . 
Having one day lost his money , he uttered frightful imprecations against his body and against his soul , swearing that he would never play at cards again . 
Nevertheless , a few days after , he began to play again with those in his apartment , and on a dispute respecting discarding , he repeated his execrable oaths . 
And when one of the company told him he should fear the Divine justice , he only swore the more , and made such confusion that there had to be another deal . 
In some cases the effect of losses at play is simply stupefaction . 
Some players , at the end of the sitting , neither know what they do nor what they say . 
M. de Crequi , afterwards Duc de Lesdiguieres , leaving a gambling party with Henry IV . 
, after losing a large sum , met M. de Guise in the court yard of the castle . 
He was scarcely seated before he dozed , and the clerk in a short time bawled out AMEN , which he pronounced A main . 
The buck jumped up half asleep and roared out , 'I'll bet the caster guineas ! The congregation was thrown into a titter , and the buck ran out , overwhelmed with shame . 
A similar anecdote is told of another 'dissipated buck' in a church . 
The grand masquerade given on the opening of the Union Club House , in Pall Mall , was not entirely over till a late hour on the following Sunday . 
A young man nearly intoxicated certainly not knowing what he was about reeled into St . 
James's church , in his masquerade dress , with his hat on . 
The joy at winning back his money only makes a gamester the more covetous of winning that of his adversary . 
A wealthy man once lost , crowns , and begged to be allowed to go and sell his property , which was worth double the amount he had lost . 
'Why sell it ? said his adversary 'let us play for the remainder . 
They played luck changed and the late LOSER ruined the other . 
Sometimes avidity makes terrible mistakes many , in order to win more , have lost their all to persons who had not a shilling to lose . 
During the depth of a severe winter , a gamester beheld with terror the bottom of his purse . 
Unable to resolve on quitting the gaming table for players in that condition are always the most stubborn he shouted to his valet 'Go and fetch my great sack . 
These words , uttered without design , stimulated the cupidity of those who no longer cared to play with him , and now they were eager for it . 
His luck changed , and he won thrice as much as he had lost . 
Not very long ago a publican , who lost all his money , staked his public house , lost it , and had to 'clear out . 
The man who won it is alive and flourishing . 
on the morning after the night of horrors these are the furies that take him in hand , and drag him to torture , laughing the while . 
What a 'sensation' it must be to lose one's ALL ! A man , intoxicated with his gains , left one gaming house and entered another . 
It was ODDS , and the fortunate winner pocketed the enormous sum just boasted of by the other . 
Sophocles , Diagoras , Philippides , died of joy . 
Another Greek expired at the sight of the three crowns won by his three sons at the Olympic games . 
Many fine intellects among players have been brutified by loses others , in greater number , have been so by their winnings . 
Some in the course of their prosperity perish from idleness , get deranged , and ruin themselves after ruining others . 
An instance is mentioned of an officer who won so enormously that he actually lost his senses in counting his gains . 
Astonished at himself , he thought he was no longer an ordinary mortal and required his valets to do him extraordinary honours , flinging handfuls of gold to them . 
M. G me was a most estimable man , combining in himself the best qualities of both heart and head . 
He was good humoured , witty , and benevolent . 
With these qualifications , and one other which seldom operates to a man's disadvantage a clear income of three thousand a year the best society in Paris was open to him . 
He had been a visitor in that capital about a month , when he received an invitation to one of the splendid dinners given weekly at the salon . 
He won all back again , and got a considerable sum of money in hand . 
He then went to his hotel , to his bootmaker , and tailor , paid them , and made arrangements to be fed , clothed , and shod for ten years . 
Lord Foley , who died in , entered upon the turf with an estate of L , per annum , and L , ready money . 
He left with a ruined constitution , an encumbered estate , and not a shilling of ready money ! AN ENTERPRISING CLERK . 
Lord Kenyon , in , tried a clerk 'for misapplying his master's confidence , and the facts were as follows . 
He went with a bank note of L to a gaming house in Osendon Street , where he won a little . 
He also won two hundred guineas at another in Suffolk Street . 
He next accompanied some keepers of a third house to their tables , where he lost above nine hundred pounds . 
He played there almost every night and finally lost about L ! GAMBLING FOR RECRUITS FOR THE ARMY . 
An Irish officer struck out a mode of gambling , for recruits . 
The dice box was constantly going at his recruiting office in Dublin . 
A dashing young man of large fortune , about the year , lost at a subscription house at the West End , L , . 
The winner was a person of high rank . 
The young man , however , by doubling the stakes , not only recovered his losses , but in his turn gained considerably of his antagonist . 
AN ANNUITY FOR A GAMBLING DEBT . 
A fashionable nobleman had won from a young and noble relative the sum of L , . 
The cash not being forthcoming , he accepted an annuity of L . 
It is told of Sir William Colepepper that , after he had been ruined himself at the gaming table , his whole delight was to sit there and see others ruined . 
Hardened wretch 'Who though he plays no more , overlooks the cards' with this diabolical disposition ! THE BITER BITTEN . 
A stout hearted and gallant military baronet lost an immense sum at a celebrated gaming house but was so fortunate as to recover it , with L more . 
This last sum HE PRESENTED TO THE WAITERS . 
He was pursued by two of the 'play wrights' to a northern watering place , where he was so plucked that all his possessions were brought to the hammer . 
A competency was , however , saved from the magnificent wreck . 
, and brought bonds for his signature to that amount ! HEAVY LIABILITIES TO BEGIN WITH . 
When of age he converted his estates into money , and retired to Dublin , where he remained some time . 
'The Western County Magazine , . 
By a Society of Gentlemen . 
This well conducted old magazine was printed and published at Salisbury , and was decidedly a credit to the town and county . 
PENSIONED OFF BY A GAMING HOUSE . 
when he was nearly ninety . 
The mode of life of this old man was singular . 
he amused himself in watching the games and calculating the various chances , although incapable of playing a single coup . 
At four o'clock he returned to his lodging , retired to bed , and lay till between nine and ten o'clock on the following night . 
A cup of coffee was then brought to him , and , having dressed himself , at the usual hour he again proceeded to the salon . 
He did so , and , returning after three o'clock in the morning , offered to bet L that he had above L . 
The result proved that he had L , all won at gaming tables , from the small beginning of L . 
This occurred within the last ten or twelve years . 
Three stages of that species of madness which attends gaming are there described . 
On the first shock all is inward dismay . 
The ruined gamester is represented leaning against a wall with his arms across , lost in an agony of horror . 
Shortly after this horrible gloom bursts into a storm and fury . 
He tears in pieces whatever comes near him , and , kneeling down , invokes curses on himself . 
His next attack is on others on every one whom he imagines to have been instrumental in his ruin . 
The eager joy of the winning gamester , the attention of the usurer , and the profound reverie of the highwayman , are all strongly marked in this wonderful picture . 
HOW MANY GAMESTERS LIVE BY PLAY ? It is an observation made by those who calculate on the gaming world , that above nine tenths of the persons who play LIVE by it . 
So much for the inner and outer life of gamblers . 
And now I shall introduce Mr Ben . 
make the reader 'scud along and warm up into friskiness . 
'After dinner , with the exception of Cogit , who was busied in compounding some wonderful liquid for the future refreshment , they sat down to Ecarte . 
Yet , in spite of their universal determination , midnight arrived without anything very decisive . 
Another hour passed over , and then Tom Cogit kept touching the baron's elbow , and whispering in a voice which everybody could understand . 
All this meant that supper was ready . 
It was brought into the room . 
'Gaming has one advantage it gives you an appetite that is to say , so long as you have a chance remaining . 
The duke had thousands , for at present his resources were unimpaired , and he was exhausted by the constant attention and anxiety of five hours . 
He passed over the delicacies , and went to the side table , and began cutting himself some cold roast beef . 
'Our hero devoured we use the word advisedly , as fools say in the House of Commons he devoured the roast beef , and rejecting the hermitage with disgust , asked for porter . 
'They set to again , fresh as eagles . 
At six o'clock , accounts were so complicated , that they stopped to make up their books . 
Each played with his memorandums and pencil at his side . 
Nothing fatal had yet happened . 
The duke owed Lord Dice about L , and Temple Grace owed him as many hundreds . 
Lord Castlefort also was his debtor to the tune of , and the baron was in his books , but slightly . 
'Every half hour they had a new pack of cards , and threw the used ones on the floor . 
All this time Tom Cogit did nothing but snuff the candles , stir the fire , bring them a new pack , and occasionally made a tumbler for them . 
'At eight o'clock the duke's situation was worsened . 
The run was greatly against him , and perhaps his losses were doubled . 
He pulled up again the next hour or two but , nevertheless , at ten o'clock owed every one something . 
No one offered to give over and every one , perhaps , felt that his object was not obtained . 
They made their toilets , and went down stairs to breakfast . 
In the mean time the shutters were opened , the room aired and in less than an hour they were at it again . 
'They played till dinner time without intermission and though the duke made some desperate efforts , and some successful ones , his losses were , nevertheless , trebled . 
Yet he ate an excellent dinner , and was not at all depressed because the more he lost the more his courage and his resources seemed to expand . 
'At midnight he had lost L , . 
'Affairs now began to be serious . 
His supper was not so hearty . 
While the rest were eating , he walked about the room , and began to limit his ambition to recovery , and not to gain . 
'On they played , and the duke lost more . 
He floundered he made desperate efforts , but plunged deeper in the slough . 
were , that his losses were prodigious . 
'Another morning came , and there they sat , ankle deep in cards . 
No attempt at breakfast now no affectation of making a toilet , or airing the room . 
The atmosphere was hot , to be sure , but it well became such a hell . 
There they sat , in total , in positive forgetfulness of everything but the hot game they were hunting down . 
There was not a man in the room , except Tom Cogit , who could have told you the name of the town in which they were living . 
There they sat , almost breathless , watching every turn with the fell look in their cannibal eyes , which showed their total inability to sympathize with their fellow beings . 
All the forms of society had been forgotten . 
There was no snuff box handed about now , for courtesy , admiration , or a pinch no affectation of occasionally making a remark upon any other topic but the all engrossing one . 
'Lord Castlefort rested with his arms on the table a false tooth had got unhinged . 
His Lordship , who , at any other time , would have been most annoyed , coolly put it in his pocket . 
His cheeks had fallen , and he looked twenty years older . 
'Lord Dice had torn off his cravat , and his hair flung down over his callous , bloodless checks , straight as silk . 
'Temple Grace looked as if he were blighted by lightning and his deep blue eyes gleamed like a hyaena . 
'The baron was least changed . 
'Tom Cogit , who smelt that the crisis was at hand , was as quiet as a bribed rat . 
'On they played till six o'clock in the evening , and then they agreed to desist till after dinner . 
Lord Dice threw himself on a sofa . 
Lord Castlefort breathed with difficulty . 
While they were resting on their oars , the young duke roughly made up his accounts . 
He found that he was minus about L , . 
'Immense as this loss was , he was more struck more appalled , let us say at the strangeness of the surrounding scene , than even by his own ruin . 
As he looked upon his fellow gamesters , he seemed , for the first time in his life , to gaze upon some of those hideous demons of whom he had read . 
He looked in the mirror at himself . 
A blight seemed to have fallen over his beauty , and his presence seemed accursed . 
He had pursued a dissipated , even more than a dissipated , career . 
He felt as if he had fallen from his state , as if he had dishonoured his ancestry , as if he had betrayed his trust . 
He thought of May Dacre , he thought of everything that was pure , and holy , and beautiful , and luminous , and calm . 
It was the innate virtue of the man that made this appeal to his corrupted nature . 
His losses seemed nothing his dukedom would be too slight a ransom for freedom from these ghouls , and for the breath of the sweet air . 
'He advanced to the baron , and expressed his desire to play no more . 
There was an immediate stir . 
All jumped up , and now the deed was done . 
Cant , in spite of their exhaustion , assumed her reign . 
They begged him to have his revenge , were quite annoyed at the result , had no doubt he would recover if he proceeded . 
'Without noticing their remarks , he seated himself at the table , and wrote cheques for their respective amounts , Tom Cogit jumping up and bringing him the inkstand . 
Lord Dice received his with a bow , Temple Grace with a sigh , the baron with an avowal of his readiness always to give him his revenge . 
I wished to know what gaming was . 
I had heard a great deal about it . 
It is not so very disgusting but I am a young man , and cannot play tricks with my complexion . 
He gave orders for himself not to be disturbed , and he went to bed but in vain he tried to sleep . 
In vain , in vain he courted repose in vain he had recourse to every expedient to wile himself to slumber . 
Each minute he started from his pillow with some phrase which reminded him of his late fearful society . 
Hour after hour moved on with its leaden pace each hour he heard strike , and each hour seemed an age . 
Each hour was only a signal to cast off some covering , or shift his position . 
It was , at length , morning . 
With a feeling that he should go mad if he remained any longer in bed , he rose , and paced his chamber . 
He threw himself on the floor , the cold crept over his senses , and he slept . 
'The Young Duke , by B. Disraeli , chapter VIII . 
ATROCITIES , DUELS , SUICIDES , AND EXECUTION OF GAMBLERS . 
The atrocious gambling of the Hindoo Rajas has been related and I have incidentally adverted to similar concomitants of the vice among all nations . 
I now propose to bring together a series of facts specially elucidative of the harrowing theme . 
One of the Ptolemys , kings of Egypt , required all causes to be submitted to him whilst at play , and pronounced even sentence of death according to chance . 
Tolomnius , King of the Veii , happened to be playing at dice when the arrival of Roman ambassadors was announced . 
At the very instant he uttered the word KILL , a term of the game the word was misinterpreted by the hearers , and they went forthwith and massacred the ambassadors . 
Wars have arisen from very trivial causes among the rest gambling . 
Henry , the son of William the Conqueror , was playing at chess with Louis , the son of Philip , King of France . 
The latter , perceiving that he was losing the game got into a passion , and calling Henry the son of a bastard , flung the chess board into his face . 
The two brothers took to flight , but a great and lasting war was the consequence of the gambling fracas . 
A gaming quarrel was the cause of the slap in the face given by the Duc Rene to Louis XII . 
, then only Duc d'Orleans . 
This slap was the origin of a ligue which was termed 'the mad war . 
Many narratives of suicide committed by desperate gamblers are on record , some of which I now adduce . 
SIR JOHN BLAND , OF KIPPAX PARK . 
Sir John Bland , of Kippax Park , flirted away his whole fortune at Hazard . 
lost two and thirty thousand pounds . 
Sir John Kippax shot himself in . 
Lord Mountford came to a tragic end through his gambling . 
He had lost money feared to be reduced to distress asked for a government appointment , and determined to throw the die of life or death on the answer received from court . 
Lord Robert Bertie drank to him 'a happy new year he clapped his hand strangely to his eyes . 
A SUICIDE ROBBING PETER TO PAY PAUL . 
Gamblers have been known to set as coolly and deliberately about blowing out their brains as if they had only been going to light their cigars . 
Lord Orford , in his correspondence with Horace Walpole , mentions two curious instances . 
He continued to gamble until he had not only lost a princely fortune , but had incurred a large amount of debt among his tradesmen . 
He insured his life to the extent of his debts , amounting to several thousand pounds . 
in which he insured , he invited them to dinner the following day , with the ostensible view of celebrating the completion of the insurance . 
The dinner over , and a liberal allowance of wine having been quaffed , the ruined gambler desired the servant to call up all who were in the hall below . 
In a few seconds the dining room was filled with tradesmen , all eager to receive payment of their accounts . 
Allow me , gentlemen , to bid you farewell . 
And so saying , he pulled a pistol from his pocket , and placing it to his head , that instant blew out his brains . 
REVELATIONS OF A GAMBLER ON THE POINT OF COMMITTING SELF MURDER . 
'Whoever thou art that readest this paper , listen to the voice of one from the DEAD . 
While thine eyes peruse the lines their writer may be suffering the most horrid punishments which an incensed Creator can inflict upon the greatest sinner . 
'By curiosity I was first led to the E O table . 
Ashamed to stand idle I put upon E , it came E upon O , it came O. Fortune favoured me , and I came away a winner . 
Something worse than curiosity , though hardly more dangerous , carried me to another table another night . 
My view in going was answered . 
My view was to WIN , and again I WON in the course of the evening . 
Again I went , and again I won . 
For some weeks this was the constant story . 
Oh , happy had I lost at first ! Now I went every night . 
Everything I ought to have done , neglected . 
Up all night , I was forced to lie in bed all day . 
The strength of my mind , which at THIS moment might save me , was hourly wasting away . 
My wife was deceived with continual falsehoods , to which nothing but her fondness for me blinded her . 
Even my winnings , with the expense and extravagance in which I indulged myself and family , were every day more than half exhausted . 
But I felt that I was always to win . 
Fortune was now my deity . 
'But fortune , my new , my false deity , deserted me . 
I am undone ! Ruined ! A beggar ! My wife and children will want a morsel of bread to eat . 
To destroy myself is the only way to preserve my family from want , and to keep myself from the GALLOWS . 
This morning I absolutely hesitated whether I should not procure a sum of money with which to try my luck by FORGERY . 
over my lifeless , cold , and swollen body . 
'Readers , farewell ! From my sad and voluntary death , learn wisdom . 
In consequence of gaming I go to seek my destruction in the Thames . 
Oh , think in what manner he deserves to be punished who commits a crime which he is fully persuaded merits , and will not fail to meet , the severest punishment . 
The narrative proceeds to state that , 'between one and two o'clock in the morning he took a sad farewell of this world , and leaped over Blackfriars Bridge . 
It pleased Providence , however , that he should be seen committing this desperate action by two watermen , who found his body after it had been a considerable time under water . 
In consequence of the methods used by the men of the Humane Society , he was at length almost miraculously restored to life and to his family . 
It is further stated that 'In consequence of the advice of a worthy clergyman he was restored to reason and to religion . 
The paper which he wrote before he set forth to drown himself he still desires should be made as public as possible , and that this narrative should be added to it . 
In the year , Sir W. L , Bart . 
The debts amounting to L , were instantly discharged . 
Before a week had elapsed he fell into his old habits again , and lost L more at a sitting upon which he next morning shot himself ! SUICIDE IN . 
In a gentleman , the head of a first rate concern in the city , put a period to his existence by blowing out his brains . 
He had gone to the Argyle Rooms a few nights before the act , and accompanied a female home in a coach , with two men , friends of the woman . 
When they got to her residence the two men proposed to the gentleman to play for a dozen champagne to treat the lady with , which the gentleman declined . 
This promise , however , he did not attend to , not feeling himself bound by such a villainous transaction , especially after giving them so much . 
in a gambling house at Aix la Chapelle , shot himself . 
A Russian general , also , of immense wealth , terminated his existence in the same manner and for the same cause . 
More recently , a young Englishman , who lost the whole of an immense fortune by gambling at Paris , quitted this world by stabbing himself in the neck with a fork . 
'IF I LOSE I SHALL COMMIT SUICIDE . 
A young man having gambled away his last shilling , solicited the loan of a few pounds from one of the proprietors of the hell in which he had been plundered . 
'What security will you give me ? asked the fellow . 
'My word of honour , was the reply . 
'Your word of honour ! That's poor security , and won't do , rejoined the hellite 'if you can pawn nothing better than that , you'll get no money out of me . 
'Then you won't lend me a couple of pounds ? 'Not without security , was the reply . 
'Why , surely , you won't refuse me a couple of sovereigns , after having lost so much ? 'I won't advance you a couple of shillings without security . 
Lend me two sovereigns on them . 
'Suppose you lose , doggedly rejoined the other , 'I cannot strip them off your back . 
I shall return to my lodgings before daylight , in the most worn out and worthless dressing gown or great coat you can procure for me , leaving my clothes with you . 
The two sovereigns were advanced , and in ten or twelve minutes were lost . 
He did not direct his steps homeward , however , but resolved to accomplish the horrid deed by suspending himself from a lamp post in a dark lane near the place . 
The manager immediately offered a rouleau of a thousand francs , which , in the heat of play , he thoughtlessly accepted , and also lost . 
The proceeds of this went the way of the rouleau . 
He drew two more bills , and lost again . 
The next morning he was found dead in his bed , with his limbs much distorted and his fingers dug into his sides . 
On his table was found an empty laudanum bottle , and some scraps of paper on which he had been practising the signature of Captain B . 
On inquiry it was found that he had forged that officer's name to the two last bills . 
In an inquest was held on the body of a gentleman found hanging from one of the trees in St James's Park . 
The three following stories , if not of actual suicide , relate crimes which bear a close resemblance to self murder . 
A GAMBLER PAWNING HIS EARS . 
'I have nothing to give but my ears , he replied . 
'Well , said one of the witty demons , 'let us have them . 
He received his two dollars , and gambled on . 
A GAMBLER SUBMITTING TO BE HANGED . 
On examination next morning , it appeared that the men had been gambling that one had lost all his money to the other , and had at last proposed to stake his clothes . 
The winner demurred observing that he could not strip his adversary naked in the event of his losing . 
TWO GAMBLERS TOSSING WHO SHOULD HANG THE OTHER . 
In the year an extraordinary investigation took place at Bow Street . 
They got upon the wall , the one to submit , and the other to hang him on the lamp iron . 
They both agreed in this statement . 
The tall one , who had been hanged , said if he had won the toss he would have hanged the other . 
He said he then felt the effects upon his neck of his hanging , and his eyes were so much swelled that he saw DOUBLE . 
The report says , however , that , not having bail , they were committed to Bridewell for trial . 
The result I have not discovered . 
Annual Register , , vol . 
Innumerable duels have resulted from quarrels over the gaming table , although nothing could be more Draconic than the law especially directed against such duels . 
No case of the kind , however , was ever prosecuted on that clause of the Act , which was , in other respects , very nearly inoperative . 
GAMBLING DUELS IN THE YEAR . 
It so happened that almost every month of the year was 'distinguished' by a duel or two , resulting from quarrels at gambling or in gambling houses . 
'A meeting took place yesterday at an early hour , between Captain B r y and Lieutenant T n n , in consequence of a dispute at play . 
'A meeting took place on the th instant , at Calais , between Lieut . 
Finch , th regiment of Dragoons , and Lieut . 
Boileau , on half pay of the st regiment . 
Boileau and his friend Lieut . 
It was settled by Captain Butler , previous to Lieut . 
Finch taking his ground , that HE WAS BOUND IN HONOUR to receive LIEUT . 
BOILEAU'S FIRE as he had given so serious a provocation as a blow . 
This arrangement was , however , defeated , by Lieut . 
Finch's pistol accidentally going off , apparently in the direction of his opponent , which would probably have led to fatal consequences had it not been for the IMPLICIT RELIANCE placed by Lieut . 
Boileau's friend on the STRICT HONOUR of Capt . 
Finch's pistol going off was ENTIRELY ACCIDENTAL . 
A reconciliation , therefore , immediately took place . 
Nixon , the latter having challenged the former in public company , for which and previous abuse the colonel inflicted severe chastisement with a thick stick . 
Subsequent information was received that the colonel's friends deemed it unnecessary for him to meet the challenger , but that his remedy was to repeat the former chastisement when insulted . 
'A captain in the army shook hands with a gallant lieut . 
at one of the West End gaming houses , and Lieut . 
N , who was present , upbraided the colonel with the epithet of poltroon . 
On a fit opportunity the colonel inflicted summary justice upon the lieutenant with a cane or horse whip . 
This produced a challenge but the colonel was advised that he would degrade himself by combat with the challenger , and he therefore declined it , but promised similar chastisement to that inflicted . 
It was then stated that the colonel was bound to fight any other person who would stand forth as the champion of Lieut . 
N , to which the colonel consented , when a Lieut . 
J n e appeared as the champion , and the meeting was appointed for Tuesday morning at Turnham Green . 
The information of the police was renewed , and Thomas Foy apprehended the parties at an inn near the spot , early in the morning . 
They were consequently bound over to keep the peace . 
It appears , however , that the lieutenant in this instance was not the champion of the former , but had been challenged by the colonel . 
It took place , however , on the following day , on Wimbledon Common , and after exchanging a single shot the matter was adjusted . 
They fought at twelve paces . 
Mr B n was wounded on the back part of the hand , and the affair was adjusted . 
'A duel was fought yesterday morning , on Wimbledon Common , between a Mr Arrowsmith and Lieut . 
Flynn , which ended in the former being wounded in the thigh . 
The dispute which occasioned the meeting originated in a gaming transaction . 
'A duel was fought this morning on Hounslow Heath , between Messrs Hillson and Marsden . 
The dispute arose in one of the stands at Egham races . 
The latter was seriously wounded in the left side , and conveyed away in a gig . 
GAMING DUEL AT PARIS , . 
A medical student , named Goulard , quarrelled at billiards with a fellow student named Caire . 
Their mutual friends , having in vain tried every means of persuasion to prevent the consequences of the dispute , accompanied the young men without the walls of Paris . 
Goulard seemed disposed to submit to an arrangement , but Cairo obstinately refused . 
The seconds measured the ground , and the first shot having been won by Goulard , he fired , and Caire fell dead . 
THE END OF A GAMESTER . 
In , a Scotch gentleman , named William Brodie , was tried and convicted at Edinburgh , for stealing bank notes and money , with violence . 
Such was the respectful treatment of 'gentlemen' prisoners in Scotland towards the end of the last century . 
A Monsieur de Boisseuil , one of the Kings equerries , being at a card party , detected one of the players cheating , and exposed his conduct . 
The insulted 'gentleman' demanded satisfaction , when Boisseuil replied that he did not fight with a person who was a rogue . 
'That MAY be , said the other , 'but I do not like to be CALLED one . 
They met on the ground , and Boisseuil received two desperate wounds from the sharper . 
This man's plea against Boisseuil is a remarkable trait . 
Madame de Stael has alluded to it in her best style . 
MAJOR ONEBY AND MR GOWER . 
To this Mr Gower answered 'Whoever calls me so is a rascal . 
Thereupon Mr Gower threw away his sword , and the company interposing , they sat down again for the space of an hour . 
Mr Gower , being asked on his death bed whether he had received his wounds in a manner among swordsmen called fair , answered 'I think I did . 
Major Oneby was tried for the offence , and found guilty of murder , 'having acted upon malice and deliberation , and not from sudden passion . 
THE NEPHEW OF A BRITISH PEER . 
In , the nephew of a British peer was executed at Lisbon . 
He had involved himself by gambling , and being detected in robbing the house of an English friend , by a Portuguese servant , he shot the latter dead to prevent discovery . 
This desperate act , however , did not enable him to escape the hands of justice . 
After execution , his head was severed from his body and fixed on a pole opposite the house in which the murder and robbery were committed . 
The following facts will show the intimate connection between gambling and Robbery or Forgery . 
EDWARD WORTLEY MONTAGU AND THE JEW ABRAHAM PAYBA . 
Edward Wortley Montagu was the only son of the celebrated Lady Mary Wortley Montagu , whose eccentricities he inherited without her genius . 
The Jew had it now in his power to turn on his persecutors , and accordingly he appealed to the legislature for redress . 
Lord Southwell contrived to effect his escape , but Lord Taffe and Montagu were arrested , and were kept in separate dungeons in the Grand Chatelet , for nearly three months . 
Lord Taffe and Montagu afterwards appealed , in their turn , but of the definitive result there is no record . 
Le Sage , in his 'Gil Blas , says that 'the devil has a particular spite against private tutors and he might have added , against popular preachers . 
By popular preachers I do not mean such grand old things as Bossuet , Massillon , and Bourdaloue . 
All such men were proof against the fiery darts of the infernal tempter . 
From their earliest days they had been trained to live up to the Non nobis Domine , 'Not unto us , O Lord , but unto thy name , give glory . 
All of them had only at heart the glory of their church cause though , of course , the Jesuit Bourdaloue worked also for his great Order , then culminating in glory . 
The last named , too , was another La Fontaine in simplicity , preparing for his grandest predications by sorrily rasping on an execrable fiddle . 
Your popular preachers in England have been , and are , a different sort of spiritual workers . 
They have been , and are , individualities , perpetually reminded of the fact , withal and fiercely tempted accordingly . 
The world , the flesh , and the devil , incessantly knock at their door . 
If they fall into the snare it is but natural , and much to be lamented . 
Dr Dodd had many amiable qualities but his reputation as a scholar , and his notoriety as a preacher , appear to have entirely turned his head . 
He had presented to him a good living in Bedfordshire but the income thereof was of no avail in supplying his wants he was vain , pompous , in debt , a gambler . 
, exhibiting every appearance of penitence . 
The great delay between the sentence and execution was owing to a doubt for some time respecting the admissibility of an evidence which had been made use of to convict him . 
Lord Chesterfield has been accused of a cold and relentless disposition in having deserted his old tutor in his extremity . 
This , however , is scarcely an excuse , for , certainly , it was not for Dr Dodd to destroy the fatal document . 
If Lord Chesterfield had wished to suppress that vital evidence he could have done so . 
Dr Johnson exerted himself to the utmost to try and save poor Dodd but George III . 
All applications for the Royal mercy having failed , Dr Dodd prepared himself for death , and with a warmth of gratitude wrote to Dr Johnson as follows 'June , Midnight . 
'Accept , thou GREAT and GOOD heart , my earnest and fervent thanks and prayers for all thy benevolent and kind efforts in my behalf . 
God be EVER with YOU ! Dr Johnson's reply . 
'To the Reverend Dr Dodd . 
'Dear Sir , That which is appointed to all men is now coming upon you . 
Be comforted your crime , morally or religiously considered , has no very deep dye of turpitude . 
It corrupted no man's principles . 
It attacked no man's life . 
It involved only a temporary and reparable injury . 
'I am , dear Sir , 'Your affectionate servant , 'SAM . 
Next day , th June , Dr Dodd was executed . 
Captain Davis was some time in the Life Guards , and a lieutenant in the Yeomen of the Household a situation which placed him often about the persons of the Royal family . 
He was at length committed for forgeries to an immense amount . 
To the fidelity of a servant he owed his escape from Giltspur Street prison another fatal example of the sure result of gambling . 
When in Paris , he at one time had won L , , and on his way home he dropped into another gambling house , where he lost it all but L . 
He set out in life with L , in money ! DESPERATE CAREER OF HENRY WESTON . 
Henry Weston was nephew to the distinguished Admiral Sir Hugh Palliser . 
In this tremendous result lost to all intents and purposes he made a supreme effort to 'patch up' the ruin he had made . 
He forged the name of General Tonyn and so dexterously , that he obtained from the Bank of England the sum of L , . 
This huge robbery from Peter was not to pay Paul . 
Not a bit of it . 
It was to try the fickle goddess of gaming once more a Napoleonic stroke for an Austerlitz of fortune . 
He lost this L , in two nights . 
Did he despair at this hideous catastrophe ? Did he tear his hair rush out of the room blow his brains out or drown himself ? Not a bit of it . 
He 'set his wits to work' once more . 
He was caught and then only he thought of self murder , and cut his throat but not effectually . 
He recovered , was tried at the Old Bailey , and hanged on the th of July , . 
No doubt the reader imagines that the man of such a career was an OLD stager some long visaged , parchment faced fellow the OTHER side of forty at least . 
He was afterwards known only as the factious demagogue and the professed gambler ! FOUNTLEROY , THE FORGER . 
Henry Fountleroy was a gentleman of rank , a partner in the banking house of Marsh , Sibbold , and Co . 
He was convicted of having forged a deed for the transfer of L long annuities , in fraud of a certain Frances Young . 
Like Thurtell , Fountleroy defended himself , and battled with the prejudicial reports circulated against him among the rest his addiction to gambling . 
'I am accused , he said , 'of being an habitual gambler , an accusation which , if true , might easily account for the diffusion of the property . 
See the case in 'Celebrated Trials , vol . 
vi I close this record of crime and misery by a few narratives of a more miscellaneous character . 
This man , it is well known , was executed for the murder of Weare . 
Thurtell was evidently no common man . 
His spoken defence , as reported , is one of the finest specimens of impassioned eloquence perfectly Demosthenic . 
His indignation at the reports circulated in prejudice of his case was overwhelming . 
Touching his gambling pursuits , he said 'I have been represented to you as a man who was given to gambling , and the constant companion of gamblers . 
To this accusation in some part my heart , with feeling penitence , pleads guilty . 
I have gambled I have been a gambler , but not for the last three years . 
During that time I have not attended or betted upon a horse race , or a fight , or any public exhibition of that nature . 
I have , indeed , been a gambler I have been an unfortunate one . 
But whose fortune have I ruined ? whom undone ? My own family have I ruined I have undone myself ! See the entire speech in 'Celebrated Trials , vol . 
A MOST WONDERFUL END OF A GAMBLER . 
On the th of February , , Richard Parsons and three more met at a private house in Chalfold , in order to play at cards , about six o'clock in the evening . 
They played at Loo till about eleven or twelve that night , when they changed their game for Whist . 
After a few deals a dispute arose about the state of the game . 
These wishes were several times repeated both then and afterwards . 
Presently upon this they adjourned to another house , and there began a fresh game , when Parsons and his partner had great success . 
They then played at Loo again till four in the morning . 
During the second playing Parsons complained to one Rolles , his partner , of a bad pain in his leg , which from that time increased . 
There was an appearance of a swelling , and afterwards the colour changing to that of a mortified state . 
On the following Sunday he took advice of a surgeon , who attended him until his death . 
Notwithstanding all the applications that were made the mortification increased , and showed itself in different parts of the body . 
After receiving the sacrament he said 'Now , I must never sin again . 
He hoped God would forgive him , having been wicked not above six years , and that whatever should happen he would not play at cards again . 
After this he was in great agony chiefly delirious spoke of his companions by name , and seemed as if his imagination was engaged at cards . 
'February th last I visited Richard Parsons , who , I found , had an inflamed leg , stretching from the foot almost to the knee , tending to a gangrene . 
The tenseness and redness of the skin was almost gone off , and became of a duskish and livid colour , and felt very lax and flabby . 
, under each eye , on the top of his shoulder , and on one hand and in about twelve hours after he died . 
After a pause , the judge said 'As the Almighty has not thought proper to comply with your request , the sentence of the court is , c . 
Rouge et Noir the Academicians of . 
There are few departments of human distinction in which Great Britain cannot boast a 'celebrity' genteel or ungenteel . 
I think that many thousands of millions would be 'within the mark' as the contribution of England to the insatiate god of gambling . 
'Every one is aware that George IV . 
But although this is known to every one , comparatively few people are acquainted with the circumstances under which his debts were contracted . 
Those debts , then , were the result of losses at the gaming table . 
He was an inveterate gambler a habit which he most probably contracted through his intimacy with Fox . 
It is a well ascertained fact that in two short years , after he attained his majority , he lost L , at play . 
'The unfortunate results of this union are but too well known , not only as regarded the parties themselves , but as regarded society generally . 
CHAPTER V. ODDITIES AND WITTICISMS OF GAMBLERS . 
Certain grandees and wealthy persons , more through vanity or weakness than generosity , have sacrificed their avidity to ostentation some by renouncing their winnings , others by purposely losing . 
The greater number of such eccentrics , however , seem to have allowed themselves to be pillaged merely because they had not the generosity or the courage to give away what was wanted . 
Brantome calls this 'greatness the following is an instance of what he calls 'kindness . 
'Guilty or innocent , he says , 'everybody was well received at the house of this cardinal , who kept an open table at Rome for the French chevaliers . 
These two Italian abbes were ne plus ultras in luxury and effeminacy . 
In the reign of Henry IV . 
, they laid before their guests vermilion dishes filled with gloves , fans , coins to play with after the repast , essences and perfumes . 
I wonder if the delightful scent called Frangipani , vouchsafed to us by Rimmel and Piesse and Lubin , was named after this exquisite ecclesiastic of old ? Melanges d' Hist . 
One day when Henry IV . 
The Duc de Lerme , when entertaining Monsieur the brother of Louis XIII . 
de Jeu M. le Duc d'Orleans . 
, Fouquet placed in the room of every courtier of the king's suite , a purse of gold for gambling , in case any of them should be short of money . 
xiii AN INSINUATING , ELEGANT GAMESTER . 
The chancellor called on the duke to make the necessary communication , but the minister did not choose to be at home . 
The subject had long been forgotten by the duke , when an elegant , easy , dissipated marquis actually arrived . 
He had extensive credit on a house of the English Factory , and presently insinuated himself into the good graces of the duke , whom he soon eased of all his superfluous cash . 
The chancellor became alarmed for the consequences , and resolved to try and play off the French for their clever finesse . 
He looked about for a match for the redoubtable French gamester , and soon got information of a party who might serve his turn . 
The chancellor immediately despatched a courier to Moscow to fetch the Russian gamester . 
The midshipman was forthwith made an ensign of the Guards , in order to entitle him to play at court . 
He set to work at once in accordance with his instructions , but after his own plan in the execution . 
He began with losing freely and was , of course , soon noticed by the marquis , and marked as a pigeon worth plucking . 
The young Russian , however , forced him into high play , and he lost the greater part of his former gain . 
a little before his death , which was in the year . 
This Lord Fitzgerald was eldest son to the Earl of Kildare , and died at the age of twenty one . 
'By loss in play , men oft forget The duty they do owe To Him that did bestow the same , And thousand millions moe . 
'I loath to hear them swear and stare , When they the Main have lost , Forgetting all the Byes that wear With God and Holy Ghost . 
'By wounds and nails they think to win , But truly 'tis not so For all their frets and fumes in sin They moneyless must go . 
'There is no wight that used it more Than he that wrote this verse , Who cries Peccavi now , therefore His oaths his heart do pierce . 
'Therefore example take by me , That curse the luckless time That ever dice mine eyes did see , Which bred in me this crime . 
'Pardon me for that is past , I will offend no more , In this most vile and sinful cast , Which I will still abhor . 
, of Castle Coote , in Ireland , whom Mrs Montague calls those goddesses the Gunnings . 
However , two nights afterwards , being left alone with her , while her mother and sister were at Bedford House , he found himself so impatient that he sent for a parson . 
Mr Manners , a relation of the Duke of Rutland , many years ago , lost a considerable sum to a well known gamester , who set up his carriage in consequence . 
Being at a loss for a motto , Mr Manners suggested the following MANNERS MAKE THE MAN . 
SHARP PRACTICE NOT BY AN ATTORNEY . 
The commanding officer of a Militia regiment having passed an evening with several of his officers , carried one of them , who was much intoxicated , to town with him . 
A blackleg , famous for 'cogging a die , said that there had been great sport at Newmarket . 
'What ! said Foote , 'I suppose you were detected , and kicked out of the Hazard room . 
F d , the Clerk of the Arraigns , brought off Lookup when indicted for perjury . 
Foote , afterwards playing with him at Whist , said , 'F d , you can do anything , after bringing of Lookup . 
I don't wonder you hold thirteen trumps in your hand . 
The least he could do was to teach you the long shuffle for your services . 
Dr Dodd was a very unlucky gamester , and received a guinea to forfeit twenty if he ever played again above a guinea . 
This , among gamblers , is termed being TIED UP . 
When the doctor was executed for forgery a gentleman observed to Foote 'I suppose the doctor is launched into eternity by this time . 
'How so ? said Foote , 'he was TIED UP long ago . 
EFFECT OF A SEVERE LOSS AT PLAY . 
Lord C lost one night L , to General Scott . 
The remedy did not prove effectual he shot himself at his lodgings at Bath . 
A GAMBLER'S EXCUSE FOR NOT BEING A SECOND IN A DUEL . 
A gentleman who had been called out , applied to a friend who had won a large sum of money to be his second . 
Lord Mark Stair and Lord Stair were at play in a coffee house , when a stranger overlooked the game , and disturbed them with questions . 
Lord Mark said 'Let us throw dice to see which of us shall pink this impudent fellow . 
The other exclaimed 'Ah ! Stair , Stair ! you have been always more fortunate in life than I. CAPTAIN ROCHE . 
there is not a gentleman in the room the rest are all blacklegs . 
On leaving the place , the major expressed his astonishment at his rudeness , and wondered , out of so numerous a company , it was not resented . 
'Address , G. A. , by letter , to be left at Mr Harding's , Piccadilly , nearly opposite Bond Street . 
B. This advertisement will not appear again . 
PROSPECT OF L PER ANNUM FROM A CAPITAL OF L . 
The personal attendance of the party engaging is requisite but there will be no occasion for articles of partnership , or any establishment , as the profits may be divided daily . 
THE GAME PLAYED IN THE COURT OF CHANCERY . 
But the lord chancellor said that THE GAME PLAYED IN THE COURT OF CHANCERY as far as counsel was concerned was for GUINEAS . 
THE ORIGINAL OF A RECENT PROPOSAL . 
Not long since an advertisement appeared , and was noticed by several of the papers , purporting to enable any person to realize a large fortune by a small advance to the advertiser . 
It will readily be seen that the following is the ORIGINAL of the scheme , put forth in the Morning Chronicle , in 'Important Offer . 
This will be found well worth the attention of a member of the superior clubs . 
No personal application will be answered . 
'My skill at billiards , says a confessing gamester , 'gave me a superiority over most I met with . 
I did not wish to win too palpably , and therefore kept increasing the advantage I yielded him , till it amounted to sixteen . 
He now proposed making the bet ONE HUNDRED POUNDS , and that I should give him eighteen . 
He laughed so heartily at the event , and conducted himself so extravagantly , that I felt persuaded the thing was accidental . 
He proposed doubling the stakes , which I refused yet I agreed to play him for the same sum as before , but giving him only fourteen . 
He declared he did not want my money , and wished to give me an opportunity of recovering it . 
It was the depth of artifice , and I discovered it too late . 
and I had no money to pay ! One of the bystanders took part with him my case did not invite or interest any one to stand by me . 
I was treated with great indignity and though I gave up my watch and every article of value I possessed , yet I was not allowed to depart without very ill usage . 
The injuries I received were very severe , and confined me to my bed for several days . 
The splendid and fascinating game of Billiards seems to have been an English invention and it became greatly in vogue during the reign of Louis XIV . 
of France , to whom it was recommended by his physicians as an exercise after meals . 
It is said that Chamillard , who played with the king , entirely owed his political fortune to the skill which he displayed in this game . 
The game seems to be more in vogue than ever , and doubtless heavy sums are lost and won at it . 
Billiard matches have during the last three years become quite one of the winter exhibitions , and particularly this season have the public shown their taste for the game . 
At the present time Roberts , sen . 
Cook , however , very recently in an exhibition match with J. Bennett , scored the spot hazard no less than times , making off the balls , the biggest break on record . 
Such feats as these , supplemented by the but little inferior play of Roberts , jun . 
, and Bennett , have done more than excite surprise , and have caused old heads carefully to look into the style of play of and to ponder thereon . 
Billiard players and table makers should meet and arrange a regular standard size for table pockets and balls , with the spots at regulated positions . 
We should then be able to compare merits with greater certainty , and such terrible scores would not trouble the markers . 
Moreover , there can be no doubt that many modern instances of billiard sharping occur , such as I have just quoted , in which the unwary are unscrupulously 'fleeced . 
A certain high military character sat down to play with a Russian prince , who introduced loaded dice . 
The travelled Englishman lost every bet for the Russian never missed his seven or eleven , and modestly threw only ten times . 
Such is the effect of not knowing your man ! This term means making sure of what you throw . 
John Metcalfe , much better known by the nickname of blind Jack of Knaresborough , was a celebrity at Harrowgate during the first quarter of the present century . 
Such a man was sure to attract notice in any place or neighbourhood , but particularly at a place of general resort . 
Besides , he possessed a facetious mode of talking , and on several occasions exercised a practical sort of wit , which was equally certain of gaining patronage . 
Among his many exploits was the following . 
Various trials of his skill and activity were proposed by gentlemen who offered to support their opinions with their money . 
He asked the blind man if he was willing to run yards against his favourite mare . 
The offer was immediately accepted provided he might CHOOSE THE GROUND , which should be an open space on the adjoining moor . 
The loud shouts of the spectators announced to the blind man that his expectations were realized . 
Metcalfe passed his extended rival , terminated his career , and won the race before those who had run to the prostrate horseman could render him any assistance . 
The well lighted avenues directed him to the French Hazard table . 
The commoner commenced by backing the noble lord IN . 
The noble lord threw OUT . 
He then backed the noble lord OUT , and the noble lord threw in . 
He backed the noble lord OUT again , who threw five to the main . 
The commoner betted the odds deeply at the rate of three to two . 
The noble lord threw the FIVE . 
The commoner , uneasy , changed about , and backed the noble lord IN for a large stake , the noble lord then threw OUT . 
The commoner now rose in a rage , and insinuated broadly that he was cheated , robbed , and it could not be fair play . 
an apology was given and peace was restored . 
A party of players were assembled to throw for a stake , which was enormous . 
It was , however , agreed that the LOWEST throw should win . 
The players threw until one of them turned up two aces . 
All but one had thrown , and shouts of applause greeted the lucky caster , when the last who was to throw exclaimed 'Hold ! I'll try and beat that . 
A French lady had an only child , a handsome young man , much addicted to gaming . 
He lost at one sitting L , , and being destitute of other resources , he joined a company of strolling players . 
They chanced some time afterwards to pass a short time at Worcester , near which his mother , who was considerably advanced in years , resided . 
He supported the principal character in 'The Gamester . 
After being thus idle for some time , an Englishman , who had heard of his triumphs , expressed his readiness to enter the lists against him . 
They sat down , and played for three hours without intermission , and at the end of that time were exactly in the same position as when they begun . 
They at length paused to take some refreshment . 
'He is a very clever fellow , observed the Englishman . 
He had scarcely quitted the place when the other made his appearance , and observed that the Frenchman was the most skilful player he had ever met with . 
The parties again met , and the cards were again produced . 
'Sare , said the Frenchman , 'you are the best player I ever met with . 
'And you , Monsieur , returned the other , 'are the only gentleman I ever played with , from whom I could win nothing . 
'Indeed , sare ! said Monsieur , hesitatingly . 
'It is a fact , I assure you . 
'Sare , I am quite astonished at your skill . 
'And I'm not less so at yours , Monsieur . 
'You're de most skilfullest man at de cards in England . 
'Not while you are in it , Monsieur , replied the Englishman , with a smile . 
'And , Monsieur , I did the same thing with you , and yet you are no loser ! remarked the other , with corresponding energy of tone . 
The cheats cordially shook hands , apparently much gratified that they had at length ascertained how it had happened that neither could pluck the other . 
The young men of the age lose ten , fifteen , twenty thousand pounds in an evening there . 
Lord Stavordale , not one and twenty , lost L , there last Tuesday , but recovered it by one great hand at Hazard . 
Indeed , the play was unusually high for rouleaus of L each , and generally there was L , in specie on the table . 
Each gamester had a small neat stand by him , to hold his tea , or a wooden bowl with an edge of ormolu , to hold the rouleaus of guineas . 
Quinze , the French for fifteen . 
This is a game at cards , in which the winner is he who counts fifteen , or nearest to that number , in all the points of his hand . 
Three , five , or six might play at it . 
Two entire packs of cards are used , so disposed that the spades and clubs are on one side , and the hearts and diamonds on the other . 
The entire art of the game consists in making fifteen below that number the party loses . 
This club was remarkable for high if not for foul play . 
O'Birne said , You can never pay me . 
I can , said the youth , my estate will sell for the debt . 
No , said O'Birne , I will win ten thousand , you shall throw for the odd ninety . 
They did , and Harvey won ! . 
In Mr Duncombe's 'Life' of his father occurs the following account of this curious transaction . 
'In Graham's Club there was also a good deal of play , and large sums were lost and won among the noblemen and gentlemen who were its members . 
An unpleasant rumour circulated in town in the winter of , to the effect that a noble lord had been detected in cheating by means of marked cards . 
The presumed offender was well known in society as a skilful card player , but by those who had been most intimate with him was considered incapable of any unfair practice . 
He was abroad when the scandal was set afloat , but returned to England directly he heard of it , and having traced the accusation to its source , defied his traducers . 
His accusers were , who had formerly kept a gaming table Mr , also a professional gambler Lord Henry Bentinck , and Mr F. Cumming . 
'Lord de Ros , instead of prosecuting the four for a libel , brought an action only against Cumming , which permitted the others to come forward as witnesses against him . 
The cause came on in the Court of King's Bench before Lord Denman . 
For the defence appeared the keeper of the house and his son two or three gamblers who had lived by their winnings one acknowledged to have won L , in years . 
On this statement the Times' reviewer comments as follows 'If many old scandals may be revived with impunity , there are some that cannot . 
Mr Duncombe the younger has hit on one which affects several gentlemen still living , and his injurious version of it cannot be neutralized or atoned for by an apology to one . 
We call attention to it in the hope that any more serious notice will be rendered needless by the simple exposure of its inaccuracies . 
'It is difficult to conceive a more inexcusable misstatement , for the case was fully reported , and the public judgment perfectly coincided with the verdict . 
Lord de Ros was not abroad when the scandal was set afloat . 
He went abroad after the scene at Graham's had set all London talking , and he returned in consequence of a peremptory call from his friends . 
His accusers were not challenged . 
They became his accusers , because they formed the Whist party at which he was first openly denounced . 
They signed a paper particularizing their charge , and offered to refer the question to a tribunal of gentlemen , with the Duke of Wellington or Lord Wharncliffe to preside . 
The Times of February and , . 
Suspicions had long been rife and on no less than ten or twelve occasions the marked packs had been examined in the presence of unimpeachable witnesses , and sealed up . 
These packs were produced at the trial . 
Several witnesses swore to the trick called sauter la coupe . 
He has apologized to one , and he had better apologize to the other without delay . 
When Lord Alvanley was asked whether he meant to leave his card , he replied , No , he will stick it in his chimney piece and count it among his honours . 
People were excessively struck at this deviation from the extreme punctuality required in criminal cases by the British courts of law . 
The noble lord , by the confession of the titled parties to whom I allude , thus cheated for himself and them at the same time . 
Lord de Ros was at the head of the barons of England . 
He was the son of Lord Henry Fitzgerald , and Lady de Ros , who inherited in her own right that ancient title , which dates from the reign of Henry III . 
He had studied at Eton and Oxford , and afterwards on the Continent , and there was not a more accomplished man in Europe . 
He possessed an ample fortune , was a member of several of the clubs White's , Boodle's , Brookes' , and Graham's , and one of the best Whist players in England . 
A determination was therefore formed that the club should be dissolved and reconstructed , leaving out the names of certain persons to whom suspicion attached . 
The main object of the master of the club , and of some of those who attended it for the purpose of professional gain , was that its character should be cleared . 
With regard to the operation of dealing , his Lordship delivered the cards particularly slow , examining every card minutely towards its corners , as if looking for some mark . 
Many curious facts came out during the trial . 
, and , excepting that reverse , he was generally fortunate at play . 
That is a yearly average of L . 
He had , however , lost about L during the previous year . 
This Captain Alexander was asked how many hours he played before dinner , and he answered 'From three to five hours' adding , however , that 'he HAD played ALL NIGHT . 
Then the counsel said , 'I suppose you take but a slight dinner ? He replied 'Why , I generally make as good a dinner as I can get . 
mind , I DENY THE LEMONADE ALTOGETHER I never take lemonade . 
Altogether , it must have been a most interesting and exciting trial . 
, Mr Alexander , and Mr W. H. Watson for the defendant . 
A great many of the nobility were present , together with several foreigners of distinction . 
BROOKES' CLUB , IN ST JAMES'S STREET . 
This was a house notorious for very high gaming , and was frequented by the most desperate of gamblers , among the rest Fox , Brummell , and Alderman Combe . 
According to Captain Gronow At Brookes's , for nearly half a century , the play was of a more gambling character than at White's . 
On one occasion Lord Robert Spencer contrived to lose the last shilling of his considerable fortune given him by his brother , the Duke of Marlborough . 
General Fitzpatrick being much in the same condition , they agreed to raise a sum of money , in order that they might keep a Faro bank . 
The members of the club made no objection , and ere long they carried out their design . 
As is generally the case , the bank was a winner , and Lord Robert bagged , as his share of the proceeds , L , . 
He retired , strange to say , from the fetid atmosphere of play , with the money in his pocket , and never again gambled . 
The lowest stake at Brookes' was L and it was a common event for a gentleman to lose or win L , in an evening . 
Sometimes a whole fortune was lost at a single sitting . 
White's Club seems to have won the darkest reputation for gambling . 
shake down all our fine oaks . 
It is dreadful to see , not only there , but almost in every house in the town , what devastations are made by that destructive fury , the spirit of play . 
, that the first baronet that will be hanged is this Sir William Burdett . 
without bestowing a curse upon that famous academy as the bane of half the English nobility . 
It was from the beginning a gaming club , 'pure and simple . 
The play was mostly at Hazard and Faro . 
No member was to hold a Faro bank . 
Professional gamblers , who lived by dice and cards , provided they were free from the imputation of cheating , procured admission to White's . 
It was a great supper house , and there was play before and after supper , carried on to a late hour and to heavy amounts . 
Was he dead or not ? The odds were immediately given and taken for and against . 
It was proposed to bleed him . 
Those who had taken the odds that the man was dead protested that the use of a lancet would affect the fairness of the bet . 
I have met with a similar anecdote elsewhere . 
A waiter in a tavern in Westminster , being engaged in attendance on some young men of distinction , suddenly fell down in a fit . 
Bets were immediately proposed by some of the most thoughtless on his recovery , and accepted by others . 
And again 'One of the youths at White's , in , has committed a murder , and intends to repeat it . 
Another man and ship are to be tried for their lives instead of Mr Blake , the assassin . 
He also tells us of a very curious entry in the betting book . 
Lord Mountford bets Sir John Bland twenty guineas that Nash outlives Cibber . 
I told him I was glad to see him look so well . 
Faith , said he , it is very well that I look at all . 
Lord Mountford would have been the winner Cibber died in , Nash in . 
Hogarth's scene at the gambling house is taken at White's . 
This even caused him to retire from the banking house , of which he was a partner . 
two rouleaux in saltire between two dice proper , on a canton sable a white ball argent . 
Round the arms is a claret bottle ticket by way of order . 
This great Macao gaming house was of short duration . 
The house was then taken by a set of blacklegs , who instituted a common bank of gambling . 
Among the members were Beau Brummell and the madman Bligh . 
This once celebrated gaming house is now 'The Wellington , where the rattle of knives and forks has succeeded that of dice . 
A billiard room on the upper floor completes the number of apartments professedly dedicated to the use of the members . 
Whenever any secret manoeuvre is to be carried on , there are smaller and more retired places , both under this roof and the next , whose walls will tell no tales . 
To make the company as select as possible , the estabishment was regularly organized as a club , and the election of members vested in a committee . 
Crockford's became the rage , and the votaries of fashion , whether they like play or not , hastened to enroll themselves . 
the great captain was never known to play deep at any game but war or politics . 
Le Wellington des Joueurs lost L , at a sitting , beginning at twelve at night , and ending at seven the following evening . 
He and three other noblemen could not have lost less , sooner or later , than L , a piece . 
He retired in , much as an Indian chief retires from a hunting country when there is not game enough left for his tribe , and the club tottered to its fall . 
'Le Wellington des Joueurs was the name given to Lord Rivers in Paris . 
The other three , we believe , were Lord Sefton , Lord Chesterfield , and Lord Granville or Lord Talbot . 
Crockford was originally a FISHMONGER , keeping a shop near Temple Bar . 
By embarking in this speculation he laid the foundation of the most colossal fortune that was ever made by play . 
His proprietorship had lasted or years . 
Situated as I was , I do not feel myself at liberty to do so . 
I do not feel myself at liberty to answer that question . 
If this evidence was not satisfactory , it was , at any rate , very characteristic . 
A few interesting facts came out before the parliamentary committee on Gaming , in , respecting Crockford's . 
It was said that Crockford gave up the business in , because there were no more very high players visiting his house . 
'A number of persons , according to the admission of the Honourable Frederick Byng , 'who were born to very large properties , were very nearly ruined at Crockford's . 
This is not very clearly put , but the meaning is that much more money was lost at Crockford's than on the turf . 
He made them play for money instead of with counters , in consequence of the large sums that were owing to him upon those counters . 
Here Prince Talleyrand was fond of a game at Whist . 
With all the advantage of his great imperturbability of face , he is said to have been an indifferent player . 
Quarterly Review , No. cx . 
Besides the aristocratic establishments just described , there were numerous houses or places of resort for gambling , genteel and ungenteel . 
Sir John Fielding thus describes the men in the year . 
'The deceivers of this denomination are generally descended from families of some repute , have had the groundwork of a genteel education , and are capable of making a tolerable appearance . 
For this set of gentry are adepts in all the arts of knavery and tricking . 
The Magistrate Description of London and Westminster . 
Having accidentally sported his abilities with two other players , he was marked as a 'pigeon' whom every preparation was made for 'plucking . 
Mr won games to eight from his veteran opponent , who was invariably backed by the leading sportingmen of the day , whilst the company at large were casually the adherents of Mr . 
The philosophic diversions of science also come in and lend their aid in the game of war the pastime of heroes and the necessary defence of nations . 
Immense sums were sported on these occasions . 
Mr resided at Windsor , and was surprised by a message on the Sunday evening preceding the Winchester races , purporting that a gentleman wished to see him on very particular business . 
It proved to be a request to play a match at Billiards during the races at Winchester , for which the parties offered guineas for the journey . 
Sometimes L or L depended on a throw . 
One morning between three and four o'clock , a gentleman came in much intoxicated . 
He had a great deal of money about him . 
Miller said 'I did not mean to play but now I'll set to with this fellow . 
Miller scraped a little wax with his finger off one of the candles , and put the dice together , so that they came seven every way . 
Seven was the main , and he could not throw anything but seven . 
A dispute arose , and the persons at the table gave it in Miller's favour . 
The young man said he had lost about L . 
Miller observed 'We have cleaned him . 
If the attorney had remarked on this at the time , they would have broken his head , or thrown him out of the window . 
Even at the present day it is said that other 'articles' besides 'valuables' are 'left' with the marker at billiards 'for a consideration . 
A fine umbrella , very little used , was lately shown to me as having been sold for five shillings , by a marker it probably cost twenty five . 
Miller said there was no disgrace in standing in the pillory for gaming . 
He could spare L out of his coffers without missing it . 
They stick to it rarely . 
Sunday was the grand day . 
He had seen more than persons at a time there , and they frequently offered half a crown for a seat . 
Wine and suppers were furnished gratis . 
Some looked over the backs of others and betted . 
A Mr Smith , the very man who had pawned his coat , confirmed the above evidence . 
The Court has not taken that into consideration , because it was not charged in the indictment . 
In the Bedford Arms , Covent Garden , kept by one John Twycross , was attacked , under warrant . 
The gaming room stood an hour's siege , for the doors were so plated with iron that the repeated blows of a sledge hammer made no impression on them . 
The officers at length entered the back through the window . 
They found fifteen persons at table , but not actually playing , so no conviction could take place . 
In the same year a party of Bow Street officers searched a gaming house at , Great Suffolk Street . 
They were an hour in effecting their entrance . 
Two very stout doors , strongly bolted and barred , obstructed them . 
In the previous year a party , mostly French emigrants , were taken at a house in Oxendon Street , with the table , cards , c . 
A city magistrate and a city officer had a dispute at cards , and a knock down game ensued . 
In the Marlborough Street officers apprehended at the gaming house , No. , Leicester Square , thirteen out of twenty persons , from the first floor , playing at Rouge et Noir . 
In the same year , two notorious gaming houses , Nos . 
and , King's Place , were attacked , by authority of a search warrant . 
All the paraphernalia of the profession , as tables , dice , counters , c . 
, were seized but the inmates effected their escape over the roofs of the adjoining houses . 
The proprietor of No. was smoked in a chimney , and three French emigrants intercepted in their retreat . 
On one of them was found a gold watch , which appeared , by the robbery book , to have been stolen about five years previously . 
The banks had been conveyed away , at least , they were not among the captures . 
'SOMETHING HONOURABLE TO THE BRITISH FLAG . 
It is stated as highly honourable to the British flag that , among the gamesters of the first quarter of the present century , no Admirals were seen at the INFERIOR tables . 
, and men of the very lowest walks of life . 
Seymour Harcourt , The Gaming Calendar . 
BOASTED PROTECTION OF GREAT NAMES TO GAMING HOUSES . 
excited among the players were warmly debated . 
Not even the warm feelings of a father would turn the scale of justice in the even hand of Lord Ellenborough . 
It must not , however , be taken for granted , merely because these fellows assert it , that the sons of the late Chief Justice really frequented that den of iniquity . 
It is part of the system of these houses to delude the ignorant , by pretending that this or the other person uses their tables . 
I had an instance of that myself at , in Pall Mall . 
Asking who that gentleman was , pointing to the party , I was answered 'That is Mr Hay , private secretary to Lord Melville , the First Lord of the Admiralty . 
FORTUNATE RISE OF A CLUB HOUSE WAITER . 
'A waitership at a club sometimes led to fortune . 
This bill was briskly pushed through the earlier stages suddenly the proceedings were arrested by adjournment , and the measure fell to the ground . 
In this strait , Rigby was believed to have had recourse to Rumbold . 
Their acquaintance had commenced in earlier days , when Rigby was one of the boldest punters at White's , and Rumbold bowed to him for half crowns as waiter . 
Rumbold is said to have given Rigby a large sum of money , on condition of the former being released from the impending pains and penalties . 
The truth of the report has been vehemently denied but the circumstances are suspicious . 
The bill was dropped Dundas , its introducer , was Rigby's intimate associate . 
Rigby's nephew and heir soon after married Rumbold's daughter . 
Sir Thomas himself had married a daughter of Dr Law , Bishop of Carlisle . 
The worthy bishop stood godfather to one of Rumbold's children the other godfather was the Nabob of Arcot , and the child was christened Mahomet . 
So , at least , Walpole informs Mann . 
Timbs , Club Life in London . 
ACCOUNT OF A GAME AT HAZARD . 
'The house in question was to all appearance devoted to the game of billiards , and most of those who frequented it engaged merely in that game . 
During the play the door was seldom or never opened , but before the play commenced there was an understanding given that proceedings were about to begin . 
By the former he loses , by the latter he wins . 
If the caster wishes , he calls a main , and continues to do so till he loses , which , in the technical phraseology , is throwing out . 
He then passes the bow to the person next on the left hand , who , in like manner , passes it to his neighbour . 
Morley is remunerated for his table very handsomely . 
The prices are eighteen pence each , and he gives them in exchange for notes , and retakes them . 
The caster pays nothing unless he wins . 
The players generally leave off play at eleven or twelve o'clock . 
On Saturday there is most play , as Morley on that day always gives a dinner at four o'clock , immediately after which the play commences . 
On other days tea and coffee are given . 
I confess I do not understand the above passage . 
A number of young men , most of whom were clerks , were called to confirm the evidence as to the system , but none of them appeared . 
At the head of these infamous establishments is one yclept Fishmollgers' Hall , which sacks more plunder than all the others put together , though they consist of about a dozen . 
This place has been fitted up at an expense of L , , and is the most splendid house , interiorly and exteriorly , in all the neighbourhood . 
It is established as a bait for the fortunes of the great , many of whom have already been severe sufferers . 
Invitations to dinner are sent to noblemen and gentlemen , at which they are treated with every delicacy , and the most intoxicating wines . 
Otherwise called Crock odile Hall . 
'After such liberal entertainment , a visit to the French Hazard table , in the adjoining room , is a matter of course , when the consequences are easily divined . 
In proportion to the extent of the bank and the stakes , so do they collect the plunder . 
PROGRESS IN THE GAMING TRADE . 
In the minor gaming houses the players assembled in parties of from to persons , who probably brought on an average , each night , from one to twenty shillings to play with . 
At these establishments the price of a box varied from one shilling to half a crown . 
Every man thus engaged was destined to become either a more finished and mischievous gambler , or to appear at the bar of the Old Bailey . 
If success attended them in the first step of advancement , they next got initiated into better houses , and associated with gamblers of a higher grade . 
About the year the gaming houses were kept open all day , the dice were scarcely ever idle , day or night . 
The following facts came out in evidence before the committee of the House of Commons , in . 
Down to that year there were no less than gaming houses in St James's and St George's . 
The play was higher in old times , but not so GENERAL . 
'The increase of gambling houses was entirely the offspring of Crockford's . 
Previously , in the clubs , the gambling was confined to a very high rate and to a very few people . 
The above named witness said he 'could have named all the gamblers in his early days at the clubs . 
No person coming into a room where Hazard was carried on would have been permitted to play for a SMALL SUM , and therefore he left it . 
The same gentleman remembered the time when gambling tables were kept in private houses . 
'It is a fact that most of those who played very high were pretty well cleaned out . 
'Persons of the middling classes , butchers , and gentleman's servants went to the low gambling houses . 
These places held out inducements to robbery . 
The most particular inspection was made of the player's person by the gaming house keeper's spies , and even his dress was strictly observed . 
The attempts which were sometimes made on the lives of the bankers led to these precautions like the indignities which are practised only in prisons for the security of the unhappy inmates . 
'DEVILISH DOINGS IN A HELL . 
In 'Doings in London , a work published as lately as the year , we find under this startling title a strange story . 
A gentleman who had lost considerable sums of money at various times , announced his full determination never to come to a place of the sort again with money . 
His visits , therefore , were no longer wanted , and so orders were given to the porters not to admit him again . 
About two o'clock on a subsequent night , which happened to be Saturday , he sought admittance , and was refused . 
A warm altercation ensued in the passage between him and the porters , which brought down some of the proprietors . 
One of them a powerful man a bankrupt butcher struck him a tremendous blow , which broke the bridge of his nose , covered his face with blood , and knocked him down . 
On getting up he was knocked down again . 
The watch had now arrived , into whose hands the keeper of the hell and the porter were given . 
At the watch house they were ordered to find bail . 
The gentleman was then about quitting , when he was suddenly called back . 
A certain little lawyer , who alternately prosecutes and defends keepers of gaming houses , was sent for . 
He whispered to the ex butcher to charge the gentleman with stealing his handkerchief and hat , which , it was alleged , had been lost in the affray . 
Gaffing is or was one of the ten thousand modes of swindling practised in London . 
Formerly it was a game in very great vogue among the macers , who congregated nightly at the 'flash houses . 
One of these is described as follows This gaffer laughed a great deal and whistled Moore's melodies , and extracted music from a deal table with his elbow and wrist . 
When he hid a half penny , and a flat cried 'head' for L , a 'tail' was sure to turn up . 
One of his modes of commanding the turn up was this he had a half penny with two heads , and a half penny with two tails . 
If 'tail' was called a 'head' appeared , and the 'tail' half penny ran down his wrist with astonishing fidelity . 
, always came in for the 'regulars , that is , their share of the plunder . 
This gaffer contrived to 'bilk' all the turnpikes in the kingdom . 
A young fellow , who previously was a marker at a billiard table , and who had the appearance of a soft , inexperienced country lad , was another great hand at gaffing . 
Indeed , so perfect a master was he of the science that Breslaw could never have done more upon cards than he could do with a pair of 'grays' . 
Gaffing began , and the billiard marker before described was pitched upon to 'do' the stranger . 
The macer 'pitched the baby card , and of course lost , as well as the unfortunate victim . 
How these spurious coins are procured is a question but I am assured that they are still in use and often made to do service at public houses and other places . 
This is a mode of gambling very much in vogue at the present time . 
It is often played at public houses among parties to decide who is to pay the reckoning . 
Each party turns down a half penny , and , on uncovering it , the matter is decided as in 'heads or tails . 
Of course this expeditious method is also used in gambling for money . 
They soon eased him of all the cash he had about him . 
A bright idea , however , occurred to him . 
'Stop a bit , he said , 'I must have my revenge . 
Just wait till I go home for more money . 
The sharpers were rejoiced at the idea , and rubbed their hands with delight , whilst the tradesman went , as they felt sure , only to bring more money into their 'till . 
The man made all haste , for he was determined to have his revenge , and soon returned with a large bag of money , which he clinked on the table . 
He first pulled out some coppers , telling them to choose from the lot the coins they would play with . 
They assented , although they did not seem 'much to like it . 
'And now , said the tradesman , 'let's set to business . 
GAMBLING AT THE WINE AND OYSTER ROOMS , OR 'SALOONS . 
Indeed , the constant frequenters of the former had attained the most profound knowledge of the art of robbing at the West End gaming houses . 
The blacklegs visited the saloons every night , in order to pick up new acquaintances among the young and inexperienced . 
Wine was set a going , and cards were proposed . 
The master of the concern soon provided a room , and play advanced , accompanied by the certainty of loss to the unfortunate stranger . 
But if the invitation to play was rejected , they made another plant upon him . 
The ruffians attacked him through a passion of a different kind . 
They gave the word to one of their female 'pals , who threw herself in his way , and prevailed upon him to accompany her to HER establishment . 
In the morning the 'gentleman , who in vain had solicited him to play at the saloon the night before , would call just to pay 'a friendly visit . 
Cards were again spoken of , and again proposed , with the additional recommendation of the 'lady , who offered to be the partner of her friend in the game . 
Many young noblemen and gentlemen were plundered by this scheme , of hundreds , nay , of thousands of pounds . 
To escape without loss was impossible . 
They packed and distributed the cards with such amazing dexterity , that they could give a man , as it were , whatever cards they pleased . 
CARDS THAT WOULD BEAT THE D L HIMSELF ! A number of sharpers were detected in a trick by which they had won enormous sums . 
in the midst of them . 
The captain and his partner exclaimed that they were robbed , and the cards were sealed up , and referred to a card maker for his opinion . 
GENEROSITY OF A GAMING HOUSE KEEPER . 
A young West Indian chanced one night to enter one of the gaming houses in London , and began trying his chance at Roulette . 
Fortune favoured him at first , and he won about a hundred pounds . 
He then pawned to the master of the table successively every ring and trinket he had , for money to continue the stakes . 
His luck never returned and he made his way down stairs in a mood which may well be imagined . 
Next time I hope you will be more lucky , and returned all his rings and trinkets . 
The moon was shining brightly at the time , and the young man swore by it , that he would never again enter a gaming house , and he kept his oath . 
Of course the generosity was but a decoy to entice the youth to further ruin . 
HOSPITALITY OF GAMING HOUSES , AND POPULARITY OF CITY MEN AT THEM . 
When he had CLEANED THEM OUT , when THE PIGEONS WERE COMPLETELY PLUCKED , they were sent to some of their solvent friends . 
After dinner play was introduced , and , till dinner time the nest day , different games at cards , dice , and E O were continually going on . 
THE TRAFFIC IN HUSH MONEY . 
Theophilus Bellasis , an infamous character , was well known at Bow Street , where he had been charged with breaking into the counting house of Sir James Sanderson , Bart . 
Bellasis was sometimes clerk and sometimes client to John Shepherd , an attorney of Bow Street while at other times Shepherd was prosecutor of those who kept gaming houses , and Bellasis attorney . 
Sir William Addington , the magistrate , was so well aware that these two men commenced prosecutions solely for the purpose of HUSH MONEY , that he refused to act . 
The runaway son of an extensive linen draper went to a gaming house in King Street , and pocketed a L bank note from the table . 
The dashing youth , however , put both the money and the affront in his pocket , and was only too thankful to get away in so good a plight . 
PERQUISITES OF GAMBLING HOUSE WAITERS . 
A waiter in one of the gambling houses in St James's Street received in Christmas boxes above L . 
A nobleman , who had in the course of a week won L , , gave him L of his winnings . 
He was said to have actually borrowed of the waiter the money which led to his extraordinary success ! PAUL ROUBEL . 
In all the gaming houses of any note there were unprincipled and reckless persons paid by the hellites , employed in various capacities , and for various purposes . 
Grant , Sketches in London . 
It was , however , perfectly understood on both sides that the amount so borrowed was never to be repaid . 
WHY CHEATS WERE CALLED GREEKS . 
M. Robert Houdin says that this application of the term 'Greek' originated from a certain modern Greek , named Apoulos , who in the reign of Louis XIV . 
was caught cheating at court , and was condemned to years at the galleys . 
I think this a very improbable derivation , and unnecessary withal . 
Aristotle of old , as before stated , ranked gamesters 'with thieves and plunderers , who for the sake of gain do not scruple to despoil their best friends . 
We afterwards find them bearing just as bad a character among the Romans . 
Says Juvenal Graeculus esuriens in coelum jusseris , ibit . 
'Bid the hungry Greek to heaven , to heaven he goes . 
Dr Johnson translated the words , 'Bid him to h l , to h l he goes' which is wrong . 
A DIFFICULTY is implied , and everybody knows that it is easier to go to the latter place than the former . 
It means that a needy Greek was capable of doing anything . 
Lord Byron protested that he saw no difference between Greeks and Jews of course , meaning 'Jews' in the offensive sense of the word . 
Among gamblers the term was chiefly applied to 'decoys . 
GAMING TABLE SLANG AND MANOEUVRES . 
A cheating bully , whose office it was to bully any 'Pigeon , who , suspecting roguery , refused to pay what he had lost . 
False dice which run low . 
To shuffle cards closely to change the pack . 
Bubbles , Flats , Pigeons . 
Usurers who lend money to gamesters . 
To secure a bet by betting on the other side . 
A gambler who drinks to intoxicate his Pigeon . 
Any number on the dice from five to nine . 
To hide a card or die . 
Dupes of sharpers at play . 
The art of cheating at cards , by the banker , who plays booty , Gripe , who bets , and the Vincent , who is cheated . 
The gain is called termage . 
To give an I. O. U. in payment . 
False dice which run high . 
SPECIMEN OF A QUASI GAMING HOUSE CIRCULAR . 
'SIR , I hope you will join with the rest of the parishioners in recommending what friends you can to my shops . 
They shall have good candles and fair play . 
Sir , we are a not gang of swindlers , Like other Gaming Houses , We are men of character . 
Our Party is , Tom Carlos alias Pistol , Ned Mogg , from Charing Cross , Union Clarke , The best in the world at A Frenchman , sleight of hand . 
My poor Brother , and Melting Billy , Your humble Servant . 
To the Church Wardens , Overseers , and each respectable inhabitant in the Parish . 
A card was enclosed , as follows Gaming House Keeper , and to The Honourable House of Commons No. and St , St James's . 
This circular was sent to Stockdale , the publisher , in , who published it with the names in asterisks suppressed . 
It was evidently intended to expose some doings in high places . 
THE DOCTRINE OF PROBABILITIES APPLIED TO GAMBLING . 
A distinction must be made between games of skill and games of chance . 
To be successful in throwing the dice is one of the most fickle achievements of fickle fortune and therefore the principal game played with them is very properly and emphatically called 'Hazard . 
It requires , indeed , some exertion of the mental powers , of memory , at least , and a turn for such diversions , to play well many games at cards . 
To find the probability of throwing an ace in two throws with a single die . 
The probability of throwing an ace the first time is whereof is the first part of the probability required . 
Among the many mistakes that are committed about chances , one of the most common and least suspected was that which related to lotteries . 
The doctrine of chances tends to explode the long standing superstition that there is in play such a thing as LUCK , good or bad . 
They asked how they could lose fifteen games running if bad luck had not prevailed strangely against them . 
, but from the mere necessity of its falling somewhere . 
Among the many curious results of these inquiries according to the doctrine of chances , is the prodigious advantage which the repetition of odds will amount to . 
The guinea was worth s . 
when the work quoted was written . 
De Moivre , Doctrine of Chances . 
The possible combinations of cards in a hand as dealt out by chance are truly wonderful . 
It is also certain on an average of hands , that nothing can be more superstitious and absurd than the prevailing notions about luck or ill luck . 
The chances of a game are generally inversely as the number got by each , or as the number to be got to complete each game . 
The chances against holding seven trumps are to against six , it is to against five , to and against four nearly to . 
It is to against holding any two particular cards . 
Similar calculations have been made respecting the probabilities with dice . 
There are chances upon two dice . 
It is an even chance that you throw . 
It is to against throwing any particular doublets , and to against any doublets at all . 
It is to against throwing any two desired numbers . 
It is to against throwing a single number with either of the dice , so as to hit a blot and enter . 
Against hitting with the amount of two dice , the chances against , , and are to against are to against are to and against sixes , to . 
The chance of doublets is , the chance of PARTICULAR doublets . 
The method was largely applied to lotteries , cock fighting , and horse racing . 
The following fact is mentioned as a 'paradox . 
In horse racing the expectation of an event is considered as the present value , or worth , of whatsoever sum or thing is depending on the happening of that event . 
Therefore if the expectation on an event be divided by the value of the thing expected , on the happening of that event , the quotient will be the probability of happening . 
But , as some persons may be at a loss to know why the numbers and are selected , it is requisite to show the same by means of the Sliding Rule . 
, which , in this case , you find to be on A , standing against on the slider B . 
But as and are in the lowest terms , there are no less numbers , in the same proportion , as to , and being the nearest , but not quite exact . 
There are four horses to start for a sweepstake , namely , A , B , C , D , and they are supposed to be as equally matched as possible . 
Secondly , he laid Mr Rider guineas to that he will not win both his bets . 
Now , we wish to know what Mr Dice's advantage or disadvantage is , in laying these two last mentioned wagers . 
First , the probability of Mr Sly's winning both his bets is of guineas and Mr Dice's expectation is of guineas , or L s . 
, which is his disadvantage in that bet . 
Secondly , Mr Rider's expectation of winning his two bets is , and , therefore , Mr Dice's expectation of the guineas , is , or L s . 
, and there remains s . 
, his advantage in this bet , which being deducted from s . 
, there remains s d . 
, his disadvantage in paying both these bets . 
that he has one or both that is , when two cards are in question . 
that the dealer is nothing by honours . 
Proctor , The Sportsman's Sure Guide . 
, but also the determination of future events from observations made relative to events of the same nature . 
'If chance can bring into the game all possible combinations , there are , nevertheless , certain limits at which it seems to stop . 
Such , for instance , as a certain number turning up ten times in succession at Roulette . 
This is possible , but it has never happened . 
Nevertheless a most remarkable fact is on record . 
In , a Mr Ogden betted guineas to ONE guinea , that calling seven as the main , the caster would not throw that number ten times successively . 
Wonderful to relate ! the caster threw seven nine times following . 
Thereupon Mr Ogden offered him guineas to be off the bet which he refused . 
Seymour Harcourt , The Gaming Calendar . 
This is the most elementary of the theories on probabilities it is termed the MATURITY OF THE CHANCES . 
Founded on this theory we have the following precepts for gamesters . 
'For gaming , prefer Roulette , because it presents several ways of staking your money which permits the study of several . 
'Pair , impair , passe , manque , and the numbers of the Roulette , besides the different combinations of POSITION' and 'maturities' together . 
'A player should approach the gaming table perfectly calm and cool just as a merchant or tradesman in treaty about any affair . 
If he gets into a passion , it is all over with prudence , all over with good luck for the demon of bad luck invariably pursues a passionate player . 
'Every man who finds a pleasure in playing runs the risk of losing . 
'A prudent player , before undertaking anything , should put himself to the test to discover if he is in vein in luck . 
In all doubt , you should abstain . 
I remember a curious incident in my childhood , which seems much to the point of this axiom . 
One of these chances was entered in my name , one in my brother's , and the third in my mother's . 
I had to throw for her as well as myself . 
The raffle was with three dice the majority of the chances had been thrown , and was the highest . 
After declining to throw I went on throwing the dice for amusement , and was surprised to find that every throw was better than the one I had in the raffle . 
I thereupon said 'Now I'll throw for mamma . 
'There are persons who are constantly pursued by bad luck . 
To such I say NEVER PLAY . 
'Stubborness at play is ruin . 
'Remember that Fortune does not like people to be overjoyed at her favours , and that she prepares bitter deceptions for the imprudent , who are intoxicated by success . 
Such are the chief axioms of a most experienced gamester , and M. Houdin sums up the whole into the following . 
'Before risking your money at play , you must deeply study your vein and the different probabilities of the game termed the maturity of the chances . 
M. Robert Houdin got all this precious information from a gamester named Raymond . 
He then appears to have revealed to Houdin the entertaining particulars which form the bulk of his book , so dramatically written . 
According to Houdin the following was the man's declaration at the auspicious meeting 'I have , said Raymond , 'completely renounced gaming . 
I am rich enough , and care no longer for fortune . 
Et s'il est un joueur qui vive de son pain , On en voit tous les jours mille mourir de faim . 
'If ONE player there be that can live by his gain , There are thousands that starve and strive ever in vain ! CHAPTER IX . 
THE HISTORY OF DICE AND CARDS . 
The Persic name for 'die' is 'dad , and from this word is derived the name of the thing in Spanish , Portuguese , and Italian , namely , dado . 
In the old French it is det , in the plural dets in modern French de and dez , whence our English name 'die , and its plural 'dies , or 'dice . 
But this worthy lived in the times of the Trojan war , and yet Homer makes no mention of dice the astragaloi named by the poet being merely knuckle bones . 
At any rate the cube or die has been in use as an instrument of play , at least , during that period of time . 
This seems , however , rather a bad joke . 
, observing the numbers of the opposite sides . 
The numbers on the four sides of the four bones admitted of thirty five different combinations . 
The lowest throw of all was four aces but the value of the throw was not in all cases the sum of the four numbers turned up . 
The highest in value was that called Venus , in which the numbers cast up were all different the sum of them being only fourteen . 
It was by obtaining this throw , hence called basilicus , that 'the King of the Feast' was appointed by the Romans . 
Certain other throws were called by particular names , taken from the gods , heroes , kings , courtesans , animals altogether there were sixty four such names . 
Thus , the throw consisting of two aces and two treys , making eight , was denominated Stesichorus . 
When the object was simply to throw the highest number , the game was called pleistobolinda , a Greek word of that meaning . 
When a person threw the tali , he often invoked either a god or his mistress . 
Dice were also made of ivory , bone , or some close grained wood , especially privet ligustris tesseris utilissima , Plin . 
They were numbered as at present . 
, a word in very common use , among Paul's kith and kin , for 'cube , 'dice , 'dicery , and it occurs frequently in the Talmud and Midrash . 
produce , and a slave . 
In another Tadmudical passage an early biblical critic is discussing certain arithmetical difficulties in the Pentateuch . 
to differ , when summed up from the single items , from that given in the total . 
He must keep him , as he bought him , or send him away for he has bought him with all his vices . 
Luther has 'Schalkheit , a word the meaning of which at his time differed considerably from our acceptation of the term . 
more literally , to mean 'in alea hominum , i . 
, in certis illis casibus quibus jactantur homines . 
E. Deutseh in the Athenaeum of Sept . 
The procedure is curious enough , termed 'the art of telling fortunes by dice . 
To throw the same number twice at one trial shows news from abroad , be the number what it may . 
If the dice roll over the circle , the number thrown goes for nothing , but the occurrence shows sharp words impending and if they fall on the floor it is blows . 
In throwing the dice if one remain on the top of the other , 'it is a present of which you must take care , namely , 'a little stranger' at hand . 
Two singular facts throw light on the kind of dice used some and years ago . 
They were very small , at least one third less that those now in use . 
Certainly the benchers of those times did not keep the floor of their magnificent hall in a very decent condition . 
A curious fact relating to dice may here be pointed out . 
The origin of cards is as doubtful as that of dice . 
All that we know for certain is that they were first used in the East . 
The Chinese cards have the advantage over those of Hindoostan by being oblong instead of circular . 
in his melancholy and dejection . 
The four suits of cards are supposed to represent the four estates of a kingdom . 
The citizens or commercial men . 
The nobility are represented in the old Spanish cards by the espada , or sword , corrupted by us into 'spades , by the French with piques , 'pikes or spears . 
So much for the SUITS . 
With regard to the depicted figures of cards , each nation likewise followed its own inventions , though grounded in both on those ideas of chivalry which then strongly prevailed . 
The Spanish cards were made to carry the insignia and accoutrements of the King of Spain , the ace of deneros being emblazoned with the royal arms , supported by an eagle . 
The French ornamented their cards with fleurs de lis , their royal emblem . 
, tormented by a rebellious son , is the emblem of Charles VII . 
The French call the queens at cards dames . 
are four valiant captains Ogier and Lancelot , the companions of Charlemagne , Hector de Gallard , and Lahire , the generals of Charles VII . 
is the emblem of money the sinews of war . 
In accordance with this allegorical meaning , the function of the ace is most significant . 
Thus a pack of cards is truly a monument of the olden time the days of chivalry and its numberless associations . 
There is a difference in the eyes of two of the knaves those of diamonds and hearts , more apparent in the old patterns , suggesting the inference that they are blind . 
This has been made the basis of a card trick , as to which two of the four knaves presenting themselves would be selected as servants . 
Of course the blind ones would be rejected . 
The bet should not be taken , as this result very frequently happens . 
Lastly , there is an arithmetical puzzle of the most startling effect to be contrived with a pack of cards , as follows . 
Let a party make up parcels of cards , beginning with a number of pips on any card , and then counting up to twelve with individual cards . 
In the first part of the trick it must be understood that the court cards count as ten , all others according to the pips . 
Thus , a king put down will require only two cards to make up , whereas the ace will require , and so on . 
This startling performance will be explained in a subsequent chapter amusing card tricks . 
Very soon , however , the evil consequences of their introduction became apparent . 
, after the deposition of the unfortunate Henry , by which playing cards , as well as dice , tennis balls , and chessmen , were forbidden to be imported . 
If this tended to check their use for a time , the subsequent Spanish connection with the court of England renewed an acquaintance with cards and a love for them . 
Cards were certainly much in use , and all ideas concerning them very familiar to the minds of the English , during the reign of Henry VIII . 
, as may be inferred from a remarkable sermon of the good bishop Latimer . 
, a country minister preached at St Mary's , from Rom . 
, As God has DEALT to every man the measure of faith . 
, all which produced nothing but laughter in the audience . 
Thus the same actions by several persons at several times are made not the same actions , yea , differenced from commendable discretion to ridiculous absurdity . 
And thus he will make but bad music who hath the instruments and fiddlesticks , but none of the resin of Latimer . 
The same practice existed at Florence . 
If the thing be not done at the present day , something analogous prevails in our railway carriages throughout the kingdom . 
See Basilicon Doron a prodigy of royal fatuity but the perfect 'exponent' of the characteristics of the Stuart royal race in England . 
But , indeed , by that time they had become an engine of much fraud and destruction so that one of the early acts of Charles II . 
's reign inflicted large penalties on those who should use cards for fraudulent purposes . 
'Primero was the fashionable game at the court of England during the Tudor dynasty . 
playing at it with the Duke of Suffolk and Falstaff says , I never prospered since I forswore myself at Primero . 
In the Sidney papers , there is an account of a desperate quarrel between Lord Southampton , the patron of Shakspeare , and one Ambrose Willoughby . 
Primero , originally a Spanish game , is said to have been made fashionable in England by Philip of Spain , after his marriage with Queen Mary . 
Yea , said the king's card holder , where , if he do not play his master's prize , your Majesty shall never trust me . 
This so ran in the king's mind , that at the next game he said he was sleepy , and would play out that set the next night . 
'It is evident that Maw differed very slightly from Five Cards , the most popular game in Ireland at the present day . 
'Noddy was one of the old English court games . 
This has been supposed to have been a children's game , and it was certainly nothing of the kind . 
Its nature is thus fully described in a curious satirical poem , entitled Batt upon Batt , published in . 
'Ombre was most probably introduced into this country by Catherine of Portugal , the queen of Charles II . 
Waller , the court poet , has a poem on a card torn at Ombre by the queen . 
This royal lady also introduced to the English court the reprehensible practice of playing cards on Sunday . 
It is a game of three , with cards , that is , rejecting the eights , nines , and tens of all the suits . 
'In a passage from Evelyn's Memoirs , the writer impressively describes another Sunday evening scene at Whitehall , a few days before the death of Charles II . 
, in which a profligate assemblage of courtiers is represented as deeply engaged in the game of Basset . 
This was an Italian game , brought by Cardinal Mazarin to France Louis XIV . 
is said to have lost large sums at it and it was most likely brought to England by some of the French ladies of the court . 
It did not stand its ground , however , in this country Ombre continuing the fashionable game in England , down till after the expiration of the first quarter of the last century . 
'Quadrille succeeded Ombre , but for a curious reason did not reign so long as its predecessor . 
From the peculiar nature of Quadrille , an unfair confederacy might be readily established , by any two persons , by which the other players could be cheated . 
'While the preceding games were in vogue the magnificent temple of Whist , destined to outshine and overshadow them , was in course of erection . 
Nor were its wonderful merits early recognized . 
Under the vulgar appellations of Whisk and Swobbers , it long lingered in the servants' hall ere it could ascend to the drawing room . 
'Many attempts have been made , at various times , to turn playing cards to a very different use from that for which they were originally intended . 
In this system , flesh was represented by hearts , fish by clubs , fowl by diamonds , and baked meat by spades . 
'The kind of advertisements , now called circulars , were often , formerly , printed on the backs of playing cards . 
Visiting cards , too , were improvised , by writing the name on the back of playing cards . 
Cards of invitation were written in a similar manner . 
'A curious and undoubtedly authentic historical anecdote is told of a pack of cards . 
When the doctor returned to his apartment , he put the box into his portmanteau without suspicion , and the next morning sailed for Dublin . 
The doctor was petrified , and assured the council that he had had a commission , but what was become of it he could not tell . 
The lord lieutenant answered , Let us have another commission , and , in the mean while , we can shuffle the cards . 
Before the doctor could get his commission renewed Queen Mary died , and thus the persecution was prevented . 
The Book of Days , Dec . 
The etymology of the word Back gamon has been disputed . 
Hyde seems to have settled it . 
A certain portion of the hog is called in Italian gambone , whence our English word gambon or gammon . 
The fabrication of cards is a most important manufacture of France and Paris and Nancy are the two places where most cards are made . 
The government derives from this branch of French industry not much less than L , annual revenue , that is , from to per cent . 
The duty on cards is secured and enforced by severe penalties . 
English cards are about a third larger than the French . 
The double headed cards are an English invention , and they are being adopted by the French . 
In Germany , a fourth face card is sometimes added to the pack , called the Knight , or Chevalier . 
'The manufacture of playing cards comprises many interesting processes . 
The sheets of paper are pasted with a brush , and are united by successive processes of cold drying , hot drying , and hydraulic pressure . 
Each sheet is large enough for forty cards . 
The outer surfaces of the outer sheets are prepared with a kind of flinty coating , which gives sharpness to the outline of the various coloured devices . 
Most packs of cards are now made with coloured backs . 
The ground tint is laid on with a brush , and consists of dis temper colour , or pigments mixed with warm melted size . 
The device impressed on this ground tint is often very beautiful . 
Messrs De la Rue , the leading firm in the manufacture , employ tasteful artists , and invest a large amount of capital in the introduction of new patterns . 
The printing of the design is done on the sheets of paper , before the pasting to form cardboard . 
Until within the last few years the printing of cards was generally done by stencilling , the colour being applied through perforated devices in a stencil plate . 
The colour employed for this purpose is mixed up with a kind of paste . 
When there is a device at the back , the outline of the device is printed from an engraved wood block , and the rest filled in by stencilling . 
The stencilling of the front and back can be done either before or after the pasting of the sheets into cardboard . 
One great improvement in the manufacture has been the substitution of oil colour for paste or size colour and another , the substitution of printing for stencilling . 
The plates for printing are engraved on copper or brass , or are produced by electrotype , or are built up with small pieces of metal or interlaced wire . 
, and one for the outlines it is executed on the sheets of paper , before being pasted into cardboard . 
Formerly , every pack of cards made in England for home use paid a duty of one shilling , which duty was levied on the ace of spades . 
The law is now altered . 
Card sellers pay an annual license of s . 
, and to each pack of cards is affixed a three pence stamp , across which the seller must write or stamp his name , under a penalty of L for the omission . 
Machinery has been called into requisition in card playing . 
In a case was tried in which part of the debt claimed was for an instrument to cut cards so as to give an unfair advantage to the person using it . 
The alleged debtor had been most fortunate in play , winning at one time L , from an officer in India . 
For an exactly opposite reason another machine was used in by the Bennet Street Club . 
It consisted of a box curiously constructed for dealing cards , and was invented by an American officer . 
Another curious fact relating to cards is the duty derived from them . 
In the year the number of packs stamped was , , amounting to between L and L duty . 
Lord North put on another sixpence . 
Of course , a vast number of packs were smuggled in , paying no duty , as in the case of tobacco , in all times since its fiscal regulations . 
In the year , the duty on cards was two shillings per pack , and on dice thirteen shillings per pair . 
In the stamp duty on cards was d . 
, and it yielded L , , showing a consumption of , packs per annum . 
Much of this , however , was sheer waste , on account of the rule of gamesters requiring a fresh pack at every game . 
some thirty years ago , comparing the Government to Thimble riggers in operation . 
CHAPTER X. PIQUET , BASSET , FARO , HAZARD , PASSE DIX , PUT , CROSS AND PILE , THIMBLE RIG . 
PIQUET Piquet is said to have derived its name from that of its inventor , who contrived it to amuse Charles VI . 
The game was played with thirty two cards , that is , discarding out of the pack all the deuces , treys , fours , fives , and sixes . 
Regular piquet packs were sold . 
All court cards reckoned for ten . 
As in other games , the ace won the king , the king the queen , and so on , to the knave , which won the ten . 
When the cards were played out , each counted his tricks and he that had most reckoned for winning the cards if the tricks were equal , neither reckoned at all . 
, could reckon up in hand , when his antagonist reckoned nothing , scored for them this was called a repic and all above counted so many , counting , and so on . 
He who could make up , part in hand and part by play , before the other made anything , scored this was called a pic . 
The game was also played as pool precisely according to the rules briefly sketched as above , the penalty for losing being a guinea to the pool . 
Piquet required much practice to play it well . 
Such are the words of an old author , who adds that the game was liable to great imposition , and he explains the methods in use . 
Short cards were used for cutting , as in Whist , at the time . 
Evidently they did not 'assume a virtue' in those days , 'if they had it not . 
The two games are , therefore , of historical interest , and deserve an explanation . 
Basset was a sort of lottery . 
In this game there was . 
The Talliere , the banker , who laid down a sum of money to answer every winning card which might turn up . 
The Punter , or every player . 
The Masse , which was , when those who had won the couch , would venture more money on the SAME card . 
The Alpieu was when the couch was won by turning up , or crooking , the corner of the winning card . 
Soissante et le va was the highest chance that could happen in the game , for it paid sixty seven times as much money as was staked . 
It was seldom won except by some player who resolved to push his good fortune to the utmost . 
When the couch was alpieued , parolied , to sept et le va , quinze et le va , trente et le va , c . 
In addition to this there were other 'privileges' which operated vastly in favour of the banker . 
Of course there were frauds practised at Basset by the talliere , or banker , in addition to his prescriptive advantages . 
The game was prohibited by Louis XIV . 
, in , and soon after fell into oblivion in France , although flourishing in England . 
It was also called Barbacole and Hocca . 
It was , however , the most dangerous game for the destruction of families ever invented . 
The Faro bankers seem to have employed some 'gentlemen' to give a very favourable report of the game to the town , and so every one took it upon trust without further inquiry . 
Faro was the daughter of Basset both alike notorious frauds , there being no one , except professed gamblers , who could be said to understand the secrets of these games . 
Faro was played with an entire pack of cards , and admitted of an indeterminate number of players , termed 'punters , and a 'banker . 
Each player laid his stake on one of the cards . 
The banker won all the money staked on the card on the right , and had to pay double the sums staked on those on the left . 
Suppose a person to put down s . 
The odds from the beginning of the deal insensibly stole upon the player at every pull , till from the first supposed per cent . 
it became about per cent . 
, in Covent Garden , amounted to L per annum . 
Throughout this century Faro was the favourite game . 
Charles James Fox preferred Faro to any other game . 
This game was properly so called for it made a man or undid him in the twinkling of an eye . 
It is played with only two dice persons may be engaged , or as many as will . 
The chief things in the game are the Main and the Chance . 
The chance is the caster's and the main is the setter's . 
There can be no main thrown above , nor under so that , , , , and are all the mains which are flung at Hazard . 
Chances and nicks are from to . 
The better to illustrate the game we shall give an example . 
Let be the main named . 
The caster throws , and that is his chance and so he has to . 
The worst chances in the game are to , and is considered the best and easiest main to be thrown . 
It might be thought that and should admit of no difference in advantage to , but it is just the reverse , although , , and have eight equal chances . 
, says the writer before quoted , 'take up a young fellow in a tavern upon this very bet . 
The bargain was made that the rook should have seven always , and the young gentleman six , and throw continually . 
To play they went the rook won the first day L , and the next day the like sum and so for six days together , in all L . 
Notwithstanding the gentleman , I am confident , had fair dice , and threw them always himself . 
And further to confirm what I alleged before , not only this gamester , but many more have told me that they desired no greater advantage than this bet of to . 
But it is the opinion of most that at the first throw the caster hath the worst of it . 
The Compleat Gamester , by Richard Seymour , Esq . 
As this game is of a somewhat complicated character , another account of it , which appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette for Sept . 
, , may not be unacceptable . 
then proceeds to call a main . 
, he neither wins nor loses . 
These , as has been said , are calculated with mathematical nicety , are proclaimed by the groom porter , and are never varied . 
two thirds of the amount , the masse , or entire sum , to await the turning up of either main or chance . 
If a player throws out three times in succession , the box passes to the next person on his left , who at once takes up the play . 
He may , however , throw in without interruption , and if he can do so some half dozen times and back his luck , the gains will be enormous . 
Shrewd players , however , prefer some other main , with the view of having a more favourable chance to depend upon of winning both stake and odds . 
'Such is the game of English Hazard , at which large fortunes have been won and lost . 
It is exceedingly simple , and at times can become painfully interesting . 
Cheating is impossible , unless with loaded dice , which have been used and detected by their splitting in two , but never , perhaps , unless at some disreputable silver hell . 
The mode of remunerating the owner of the rooms was a popular one . 
a mere trifle from what he must have gained . 
Very extraordinary runs of luck have occurred at Hazard , one player sometimes throwing five , seven , and even eleven mains in a single hand . 
'In addition to the fixed rules of English Hazard , there are several regulations which require to be observed . 
The round table on which it is played has a deeply bevelled edge , which is intended to prevent the dice from landing on the floor , which would be no throw . 
except MONEY , it would be called no throw . 
If one die lands on the top of another , it is removed by the groom porter and declared a throw . 
'Some thirty years ago English Hazard was a favourite game in Ireland , and Dublin could boast of three or four hells doing a brisk trade . 
The most frequented and longest established was called The Coal Hole , being situated on the coal quay . 
Many strange scenes have occurred in this house , some followed by tragic consequences too painful to relate , others ridiculous and amusing . 
Shure , then , mony a note was dropped here beside yours . 
M. P. Ah ! but I mean out of my pocket . 
I did not lose it at play . 
It was for L , one of Ball's Bank , and very old . 
All this has long since become matter of the past , and it would now puzzle the keenest detective to find the trace even of a silver hell in the Irish capital . 
, we come to Passe Dix , which seems to demand some notice . 
It is played with three dice . 
There is always a banker , and the number of players is unlimited . 
, the banker must double the player's stakes and the stakes of all those who have risked their money on the same chance . 
When the game is played by many together , each gamester is banker in his turn . 
This was and doubtless still is the special card game of our London sharpers . 
Another confederate plied the novice with drink . 
'The game of Put is played with an entire pack of cards , generally by two , and sometimes by four persons . 
At this game the cards rank differently from all others a trey being the best , then a two , then an ace , then the king , queen , c . 
The game consists of five points . 
The parties cut for deal , as in Whist . 
The deal is made by giving three cards , one at a time , to each player . 
This , however , should never be done . 
Either party saying I put , that is , I play , cannot retract , but must abide the event of the game , or pay the stakes . 
, and it does not signify how much his opponent shuffles the pack , it is about five to one that he does not disturb the OLD GENTLEMAN or the three . 
The sharper then cuts the cards , which he does by feeling for the old gentleman the three being then the top card , it is dealt to the sharper by his opponent . 
That is one way of securing a three , and this alone is quite sufficient to make a certainty of winning . 
was partial to this and other frivolous diversions , and spent much of his time in the pursuit of them . 
A half penny is now generally used in playing this game but any other coin with a head impressed will answer the purpose . 
One person tosses the half penny up and the other cries at pleasure HEAD or TAIL , and loses according to the result . 
Cross and Pile is evidently derived from the Greek pastime called Ostra Kinda , played by the boys of ancient Greece . 
Having procured a shell , they smeared it over with pitch on one side and left the other side white . 
In the Greek , nux kai hmera , that is , 'night and day . 
Not long ago , however , I witnessed a sad and striking scene of it at Twickenham . 
It was on a Sunday morning . 
Several boys surrounded two players , one of the latter being about years of age , well dressed , and the other of about years , all in tatters and shoeless . 
The younger urchin had a long run of good luck , whereat his antagonist exhibited much annoyance , swearing intemperately . 
The bigger boy became enraged at this refusal to continue the play , and seemed inclined to resort to fisticuff , but I interposed and put a stop to the affray . 
I then questioned the elder boy , and gathered from him that he played as often as he could , sometimes winning or losing from eight to ten shillings . 
'And do you generally win ? was my next question . 
'No , sir , he replied , 'I oftener lose . 
I shuddered to conjecture what would be the future of this boy . 
The word of warning I gave him was received with a shrug of the shoulder , and he walked off with the greatest unconcern . 
Some years ago a curious case was tried , exemplifying the mode of procedure . 
Cock fighting is a practice of high antiquity , like many other detestable and abominable things that still cling to our social fabric . 
It was much in vogue in Greece and the adjacent isles . 
There was an annual festival at Athens called 'The Cock fighting , instituted by Themistocles at the end of the Persian war , under the following circumstances . 
One cannot help smiling at these naive stories of the ancients to account for their mightiest results . 
Well , if you don't kill THEM , SHURE they'll kill YOU . 
That's all ! Struck with the comic originality of this address , the men rushed forward with a laugh and a shout , carrying all before them . 
An Attic law ran as follows 'Let cocks fight publicly in the theatre one day in the year . 
Pegge , in Archoeologia , quoting aelian , Columella , c . 
This opinion seems confirmed by the thankfulness expressed by the good Antoninus 'that he had imbibed such dispositions from his preceptor , as had prevented him from breeding quails for the fight . 
'One cannot but regret , wrote Pegge in , 'that a creature so useful and so noble as the cock should be so enormously abused by us . 
It is unknown to me when the pitched battle first entered England but it was probably brought hither by the Romans . 
William describes the cocking as the sport of school boys on Shrove Tuesday . 
The theatre , it seems , was their school , and the master was the controller and director of the sport . 
From this time at least the diversion , however absurd , and even impious , was continued among us . 
'Although disapproved of by many , and prohibited by law , cock fighting continued in vogue , patronized even by royalty , and commonly called the royal diversion . 
St James's Park , which , in the time of Henry VIII . 
The park was approached by two noble gates , and until the year the Cock pit Gate , which opened into the court where Queen Anne lived , was standing . 
It was surmounted with lofty towers and battlements , and had a portcullis , and many rich decorations . 
Westminster Gate , the other entrance , was designed by Hans Holbein , and some foreign architect doubtless erected the Cockpit Gate . 
Wharton , Queens of Society . 
Cock fighting was prohibited by one of Oliver's acts in but with the return of Charles and his profligacy , the sport again flourished in England . 
Pepys often alludes to it in his 'Diary . 
I soon had enough of it . 
The training of the pugnacious bird had now become a sort of art , and this is as curious as anything about the old 'royal diversion . 
A few extracts from a treatise on the subject may be interesting as leaves from the book of manners and customs of the good old times . 
The most minute details are given as to the selection of fighting cocks , the breeding of game cocks , and 'the dieting and ordering a cock for battle . 
Under this last head we read 'In the morning take him out of the pen , and let him spar a while with another cock . 
Sparring is after this manner . 
The benefit that accrues hereby is this it heateth and chafeth their bodies , and it breaketh the fat and glut that is within them . 
Let the quantity be about the bigness of a walnut by so doing you will cleanse him of his grease , increase his strength , and prolong his breath . 
Was ever poor animal subjected to such indignity ? The preparation of the other animal , the jockey , is nothing to it . 
The dreadful fight having come off , the following was the treatment prescribed for the fortunate conqueror . 
'The battle being ended , immediately search your cock's wounds , as many as you can find . 
A poetical description of a cock fight , by Dr R. Wild , written at the commencement of the last century , will give an idea of the 'diversion . 
Yet fought they more As if each wound were but a spur to prick Their fury forward . 
Lightning's not more quick , Or red , than were their eyes 'twas hard to know Whether 'twas blood or anger made them so . 
I'm sure they had been out had they not stood More safe by being fenced in with blood . 
at length , Altho' their courage was full tried , their strength And blood began to ebb . 
Their wings , which lately at each blow they clapp'd , now flapp'd . 
And having lost th' advantage of the heel , Drunk with each other's blood , they only reel . 
From either eyes such drops of blood did fall As if they wept them for their funeral . 
At length , by chance , he stumbled on his foe , Not having any power to strike a blow . 
'IMPRIMIS Let it never be forgot , My body freely I bequeath to th' pot , Decently to be boil'd . 
To him that 's dull I do my SPURS impart , And to the coward I bequeath my HEART . 
of the otherwise generous and humane Englishman , the single surviving bird is to be esteemed the victor , and carries away the prize . 
That its attractions were irresistible is evident from the difficulty experienced in suppressing the practice . 
In connection with cock fighting I remember a horrible incident that occurred in the West Indies . 
His rage at the mishap knew no bounds , and he vented it madly on the poor creature . 
He roasted it alive standing by and hearing its piteous cries . 
THE TURF , HISTORICAL , SOCIAL , MORAL . 
It appears that horse races were customary at public festivals even as early as the times of the patriarchs . 
They originated among the eastern nations , who were the first to discover the physical aptitudes of the noble animal and the spirited emulation of which he is capable . 
Horse racing began very early in England . 
Fitz Stephen , who wrote in the time of Henry VIII . 
, mentions the delight taken by the citizens of London in the diversion . 
In the reign of Queen Elizabeth it appears to have greatly flourished , and to have been carried to such an excess as to have ruined many of the nobility . 
In the reign of James I. , Croydon in the South , and Garterly in the North , were celebrated courses . 
Camden also states that in there were meetings near York , and the prize was a small golden bell hence the origin of the saying 'bearing off the bell . 
Lord Herbert of Cherbury denounced the practice . 
As far as the cheating is concerned , the philosopher may be right , but most assuredly his views of the horse do no credit to his Lordship's understanding . 
By this means a stronger horse was raised , who , if he was not good enough upon the race course , made a hunter . 
The Merry Monarch , Charles II . 
, had given cups or bowls , estimated at one hundred guineas value , and upon which the names of the winning horses , the winner , and jockey were usually engraved . 
added to the plates , as did Queen Anne but in George I. discontinued this royal encouragement to the sport , apparently through sheer meanness . 
Since that period 'King's Plates' and 'Queen's Plates' have been paid in specie . 
Newmarket races were established by Charles II . 
Epsom , by Mr Parkhurst , in . 
Ascot , by the Duke of Cumberland , uncle to George III . 
Doncaster , by Colonel St Leger , in . 
Goodwood , by the Duke of Richmond , who died in . 
The Jockey Club began in the time of George II . 
Its latest rules , by which races are regulated , were enacted in . 
Tattersall's , the 'High Change of Horse flesh , was established by Richard Tattersall , near Hyde Park Corner hence termed 'The Corner' in , for the sale of horses . 
The lease of the ground having expired , the new premises at Brompton were erected , and opened for business , in . 
On the accession of Queen Victoria the Royal stud was sold for L , , in Oct . 
Haydon , Book of Dates . 
Among the distinguished men who have supported the turf in this country may be mentioned George IV . 
and last , though not least , the Right Honourable Charles James Fox . 
He had , however , the gratification of experiencing some few exceptions to this imaginary rule . 
The odds at STARTING were two to one on the losing horse . 
For some period previous to , George IV . 
On coming into office with Lord North , in , Mr Fox sold his horses , and erased his name from several of the clubs of which he was a member . 
It was not long , however , before he again purchased a stud , and in October he attended the Newmarket meeting . 
But Charles Fox preferred the betting rooms to Downing Street . 
This match , on which immense sums were depending , was won with ease by Seagull . 
At this period Lord Foley and Mr Fox were confederates . 
In those days the plates averaged from L to L . 
The race horse of this country excels those of the whole world , not only for speed , but bottom . 
There is a great difference , however , between the present race and that of fifty or sixty years ago for in those days four mile heats were the fashion . 
The sporting records at the end of the last century give the following exploits of horses of that and previous periods . 
Childers , known by the name of Flying Childers , the property of the Duke of Devonshire , was looked upon as the fleetest horse that ever was bred . 
He was never beaten the sire of this celebrated horse was an Arabian . 
Dorimont , belonging to Lord Ossory , won prizes to the amount of L , . 
Eclipse was allowed to be the fastest horse that ever ran in England since the time of Childers . 
After winning largely for his owner , he covered , by subscription , forty mares at guineas each , or guineas . 
Highflyer , by King Herod , was the best horse of his day was never beaten , nor paid forfeit but once . 
His winnings amounted to above L , although he only ran as a three , four , and five years old . 
Matchem stood high both as a racer and as the sire of many of our most favourite horses . 
As a stallion he realized for his master more than L , . 
He died in , at the advanced age of thirty three . 
Shark won a cup value guineas , eleven hogsheads of claret , and above L , in plates , matches , and forfeits . 
Lord William Lennox , Merrie England . 
Among recent celebrities must be mentioned Lord Stamford , who is said to have engaged Jemmy Grimshaw , a light weighted jockey , at a salary of L a year . 
But if ruin did not immediately come upon the young marquis , still the wound was deadly , inflicted as though with the ferocity of a demon . 
The 'Odds' or probabilities of horse racing are explained in chapter VIII . 
, in which the entire 'Doctrine of Chances' is discussed . 
Such are the leading facts of horse racing in England . 
One cannot help observing that the sturdy strength and muscular exertions of an Olympic charioteer of old exhibit a striking contrast to the spider like form and emaciated figure of a Newmarket jockey . 
Qui studet optatam cursu contingere metam , Multa tulit , fecitque puer , SUDAVAT et alsit . 
'Who in a race would reach the long'd for goal , Must suffer much , do much , in youth , indeed , Must SWEAT and fag . 
This is literally true respecting the English jockey , whose attenuated form is accounted for in the following dialogue in an old work entitled 'Newmarket , or an Essay on the Turf , . 
'Stop , stop , OLD GENTLEMAN ! I desire to speak a word to you pray which is the way to . 
'I beg , sir , you will not interrupt me . 
I am a Newmarket jockey am to ride in a few days a match , upon which there is a great deal depending , and I am now PREPARING . 
'Oh , I see now , you are a YOUNG man , instead of that old one for whom I mistook you by your wrappings but pray , explain . 
I only hope you won't sink under it . 
'Never fear , sir , I do not doubt but I shall do very well . 
The rewards of victory were as plain and simple in the Grecian games as they were distinguishing and honourable . 
To bear coat of arms 'A Pegasus argent on a field verd the supporters two Englishmen in ermined robes and ducal coronets the crest a purse , Or the motto Volat ocior Euro . 
'He flies swifter than the east wind . 
The diversions of these plains have proved a decoy to many a noble and ingenuous mind , caught in the snares laid to entrap youth and inexperience . 
The amusements of the turf were in all other places intermixed with a variety of social diversions , which were calculated to promote innocent mirth and gaiety . 
But encouragement to the GAMBLER of high and low degree was the very charter of Newmarket . 
Every object that met the eye was encompassed with gambling from the aristocratic Rouge et Noir , Roulette , and Hazard , down to Thimble rig , Tossing , and Tommy Dodd . 
for their love of bloody sports and cruel diversions cock fighting , bull baiting , boxing , and the crowded attendance on executions , are but too many proofs of this sanguinary turn . 
Newmarket fame was an object of ambition sought by the most distinguished personages . 
And then at the winning post what motley confusion . 
'A thousand tongues Jabber harsh jargon from a thousand lungs . 
The intruding light of the morning was execrated by the nightly gamblers . 
The principal gambling room at Newmarket was called the 'Little Hell . 
Sit mihi fas audita loqui sit numine vestro , Pandere res alta terra et caligine mersas . 
The once national sport of horse racing is being degraded to a trade in which it is difficult to perceive anything either sportive or national . 
The old pretence about the improvement of the breed of horses has become a delusion , too stale for jesting . 
Nothing is more incontestable than the fact that the breed of English horses has not been really improved , certainly not by racing and its requirements . 
It has been truly observed that 'what is called the turf is merely a name for the worst kind of gambling . 
The men who engage in it are as far as possible from any ideal of sporting men . 
It is a grim joke , in fact , to speak of sport at all in their connection . 
The turf to them is but a wider and more vicious sort of tapis vert the racing but the rolling of the balls the horses but animated dice . 
It is difficult to name a single honest or manly instinct which is propagated by the turf as it is , or which does not become debased and vitiated by the association . 
From a public recreation the thing has got to be a public scandal . 
Among those who have sought to reform the turf is Sir Joseph Hawley , who last year succeeded in procuring the abolition of two year old races before the st of May . 
It must be admitted that this practice however absurd in its object and application does great credit to human ingenuity . 
If the conjurer is a man he chooses one of the kings as his representative if a woman , she selects one of the queens . 
This is on the supposition that persons are consulting for themselves otherwise it is the fortune teller who selects the representative card . 
The knave of the suit represents the most intimate person of their family . 
Now , all the cards have had assigned to them arbitrary , but plausible , characteristics . 
promises great wealth , much prosperity in life , and tranquillity of mind if it turns up within your circle , as before mentioned . 
King of clubs announces a man of dark complexion who is humane , upright , c . 
, in fact , just the man for a husband . 
Queen of clubs is equally propitious as the emblem of a dark lady who would prove a paragon wife . 
Knave of clubs , a jolly good friend in every way . 
The trey of clubs is scarcely less exhilarating , for it promises that you will be married three times , and each time to a wealthy person . 
On the whole the suit of clubs is very lucky , but , very appropriately , the deuce thereof portends some 'unfortunate opposition to your favourite inclination , which will disturb you . 
The ace of diamonds puts you on the qui vive for the postman it means a LETTER . 
The suit of spades originally represented the NOBILITY , and the following are its significances in fortune telling . 
'The nine of hearts is termed the wish card . 
'The foregoing is merely the alphabet of the art the letters , as it were , of the sentences formed by the various combinations of the cards . 
A general idea only can be given here of the manner in which those prophetic sentences are formed . 
There are exceptions , however , to these general rules . 
On the other hand , a widow , even if she be an albiness , can be represented only by the queen of spades . 
'The ace of hearts always denoting the house of the person consulting the decrees of fate , some general rules are applicable to it . 
The ace of diamonds when close to the ace of hearts foretells a wedding in the house but the ace of spades betokens sickness and death . 
'The knaves represent the thoughts of their respective kings and queens , and consequently the thoughts of the persons whom those kings and queens represent , in accordance with their complexions . 
who , as is plainly shown by his being attended by the nine of diamonds , is prospering at the Australian diggings or elsewhere . 
No ! he does not . 
, showing the excellent understanding that exists between them . 
they will be married before the expiration of a twelvemonth . 
They may just as well believe what comes out according to their own manipulation as by that of the heartless cheats in question . 
Your ordinary fortune tellers are not over particular , being only anxious to tell you exactly what you want to know . 
As a general proposition , it matters very little what may be the means of vaticination or prediction whether cards , the tea grounds in the cup , c . 
Many educated ladies give their attention to the cards , and some have acquired great proficiency in the art . 
On board a steamer sailing for New York , on one occasion a French lady among the saloon passengers undertook to amuse the party by telling their fortunes . 
A Scotch young gentleman , who was going out to try and get a commission in the Federal army , had his fortune told . 
Some months after , I met the young gentleman above alluded to , and among the various adventures which he had had , he mentioned the following . 
It appears that this is allowable in New York . 
The explanation of the perverse prosecution was , that the young gentleman did not 'fee' the worthy policemen , according to custom in such cases . 
Well , she was right there but I am sorry to say that nothing else she PROMISED has come to pass . 
In fact , like the predictions in our weather almanacks , the fortune teller's announcements are only right BY CHANCE , and wrong ON PRINCIPLE . 
FORTUNE TELLING FORTY YEARS AGO , OR , THE STORY OF MARTHA CARNABY . 
The fortune teller was 'had up , as usual , 'for obtaining money and other valuables' from the former . 
I accordingly gave her what money I had but that , she told me , was not enough to buy the ingredients with which she was to compose the charm . 
'I felt myself , said poor Martha , 'on entering the room , all of a twitter . 
'The art of cartomancy , or divination by playing cards , dates from an early period of their obscure history . 
This picture cannot be of a later date than the fifteenth century . 
But many years after , being condemned , he remembered and declared this prediction . 
'The earliest work on cartomancy was written or compiled by one Francesco Marcolini , and printed at Venice in . 
The Book of Days , Feb . 
These tricks appeared originally in Beeton's Christmas Annual , and are here reproduced with permission . 
I was led to the investigation of this branch of my subject by the following incident . 
This was so ridiculously provoking that I offered to bet him L that I would discover the method within hours . 
To my astonishment he declined the bet , not , however , without a sort of compliment , admitting that I MIGHT do so . 
He was right for , as Edgar Poe averred , no man can invent a puzzle which some other man cannot unravel . 
In effect , I called upon him the following day , and performed the trick not only according to his method , but also by another , equally successful . 
I. Shuffling , in the simple and inoffensive sense of the expression , is an important point in all tricks with cards . 
For the most part , it is only a pretence or dexterous management keeping a card or cards in your command whilst seeming to shuffle them into the pack . 
Every performer has his method of such shuffling . 
With rapidity of execution every eye is thus deceived . 
Cutting not in the sense of bolting at the sight of 'blue , though that is of consequence to card sharpers is of importance in all card tricks . 
This is the sauter la coupe referred to in the chapter on the Gaming Clubs , in the account of the trial of Lord de Ros . 
There are several ways of performing this sleight of hand . 
The cards being cut , and forming two lots on the table , smartly snatch up the lot which should be placed on the other , with the left hand . 
The deception of the trick depends upon its dexterity , and this can only be acquired by practice . 
The 'gift of the gab' is in this case , as in many others , a very great resource . 
A striking remark or bon mot will easily mystify the spectators , and attract their attention from what you are DOING . 
To slip a card is to pretend to take the bottom card of the pack , and in reality to take the card which precedes it . 
To perform this feat without detection is a very simple affair , but it requires practice . 
In this manner you may successively draw out several cards besides the last , and only draw the last as the sixth , seventh , c . 
, which will serve to effect several interesting tricks to be explained in the sequel . 
The pack must be held in the left hand , between the thumb and forefinger , so that the three other fingers be free . 
One of the middle cards should project a little . 
These movements are very easy , and , when rapidly performed , the illusion is complete . 
To tell a card thought of by a party after three deals . 
Having dealt out the cards , ask the party in which lot the card is . 
Take up the lots successively , and place the lot containing the card in the MIDDLE . 
Deal out the cards again , and ask the party to state in which lot the card is and proceed as before , placing the lot containing the card in the middle . 
Deal out the cards in like manner a third time , proceeding as before . 
Then deal them out as usual , and the eleventh card will be the one thought of , infallibly . 
This is apparently a most mysterious trick , although a necessary consequence of the position of the lot containing the card in the three deals . 
Beneath the last place any two cards , which you take care to conceal . 
Then show the four kings and replace the six cards under the pack . 
Then let the cards be cut , and as three kings were left below , all must necessarily get together somewhere about the middle of the pack . 
Of course in placing the two other cards you pretend to be placing two kings . 
The barmaid and the three victimizers . 
Then find a queen , which also place on the table . 
Then say 'Three scamps went into a tavern , and ordered drink . 
Here they are the three knaves . 
Who's to pay ? I can't , said the first . 
I won't , said the second . 
I wish she may get it , said the third . 
I'll manage it , said the first , the greatest rogue of the three . 
, and she replied Oh yes , sir , prime old wine . 
Put the queen in your pocket . 
Now for it , my lads , said the knave in question 'mizzle' is the word . 
Let's be off in opposite directions , and meet to night you know where . 
Hereupon they decamped , taking opposite directions , which I will indicate by placing one on the top of the pack , one at the bottom , and the other in the middle . 
'When the poor barmaid returned taking out the queen from your pocket with the wine , great was her astonishment to find the room empty . 
Lor ! she exclaimed , why , I do declare did you ever ! Oh ! but I'm not agoing to be sarved so . 
I'll catch the rogues , all of them that I will . 
And off she went after them , as shown by placing her ON , or at any rate , AFTER the first . 
Of course , one of these knaves is not one of the three first exhibited , but the one which you slipped on your left hand at first . 
There is no chance of detection , however simply for the reason before given nobody suspects the trick . 
How to name every card in a pack successively turned up by a second party , and win every trick at a hand of Whist . 
This is , perhaps , the most astonishing of all tricks with cards . 
Although it may be true that whatever puzzle one man invents , some other man may unravel , as before observed , I am decidedly of opinion that this trick defies detection . 
At the first blush it seems very difficult to learn but it is simplicity itself in explanation . 
Begin by laying out the cards in four rows according to the suits , all of a suit in a row side by side . 
The cards must now be arranged for the trick . 
Then begin again with the row from which you took the six , and take up the three . 
From the next row take the king . 
These numbers will be easily remembered with a little practice , amounting altogether to , made up thus and are , and are , and are , and are KING . 
By repeating this addition a few times , it will be fixed in the memory . 
Therefore say , and are and are knave . 
From the next row to that whence you took the knave , take the seven from the next row take the five from the next the queen . 
Thus , and are queen . 
When the cards are thus arranged , request a party to cut them . 
This is only pretence for you must take care dexterously to replace the cut just as it was before . 
Let them be cut again , and replace them as before . 
Your ruse will not be detected , simply because nobody suspects the possibility of the thing . 
To do this , two things must be remembered and there is no difficulty in it . 
First , the numbers , , , , , king , c . 
, before given and next the SUIT of those cards . 
Now you know the NUMBERS by heart , and the SUIT is shown by the four cards which you hold in your hand , fan like , in the usual way . 
Let the Whist party be formed , and get the cards cut as usual only taking care to REPLACE them , as before enjoined , precisely as they were . 
Deal the cards , and the result will be that your thirteen cards will be ALL TRUMPS . 
Let the game proceed until your opponents 'give it up' in utter bewilderment . 
Once committed to memory the figures are never forgotten , and a few repetitions , with the cards before you , will suffice to enable you to retain them . 
Two persons having each drawn a card and replaced them in the pack , to guess these cards . 
Make a set of all the clubs and spades , and another set of hearts and diamonds . 
Shuffle well each set , and even let them be shuffled by the spectators . 
Then request a person to draw a card from one of the sets , and another person to draw one from the second set . 
You now take a set in each hand , presenting them to the two persons , requesting them to replace the drawn cards . 
Each person having replaced his card , you get each set shuffled . 
Then you take them in hand , and by running them over you easily find the red card amongst the black , and the black card amongst the red . 
Of course you will have prepared the sets beforehand , and take care to alter the arrangement as soon as possible after the trick . 
But you can prepare the pack in the presence of others without their detecting it . 
Twenty cards being arranged upon a table , a person thinks of two , and you undertake to guess them . 
This done you take up the sets in the order in which they lie , and place them in rows according to the letters of the words . 
All the letters of the words being thus covered , ask the party who has thought of the cards to tell you in which lines these cards are . 
To tell a card thought of without even looking at the cards . 
Take any number of cards , say twenty . 
Pretend to shuffle them with the faces towards you , and REMEMBER THE FIRST CARD as you close the pack suppose the ten of diamonds . 
Then , take the cards in hand . 
Pretend to examine them mysteriously , but in reality only look for YOUR card the first dealt out the ten of diamonds for instance . 
Now , suppose he tells you that the card he thought of came out FIFTH . 
Always remember to count from your own card inclusive to the number of the card thought of towards your right hand . 
Thus , suppose there are only two cards above the ten of diamonds , then count two more on the left , making the fifth . 
If the card you remember , or your first card , is first , then count the requisite number on the left , always beginning with YOUR card , however . 
The REASON of this trick is simply that by merely cutting the cards , and shuffling them in the way indicated , you do not alter the SEQUENCE of the cards . 
Hence , in shuffling for whist or other games , the cards should not be shuffled in this way , but more thoroughly mixed by the edgewise shuffling of certain players . 
This is the trick I alluded to at the commencement of the chapter , the mode of performing which I succeeded in discovering . 
Of course ANY NUMBER of persons may think of cards , remembering their order , and the operator will tell them , in like manner . 
A person having thought of one of fifteen cards presented to him , to guess the card thought of . 
Form three ranks of five cards each , and request a party to think of one of these cards , and tell you in which rank it is . 
Take up the cards of the three ranks , taking care to place the cards of the ranks in which is the card thought of between those of the two other ranks . 
Make three more ranks as before . 
Ask the party again in which rank the card is , and take them up , placing the rank in which the card is between the two others . 
Operate in like manner a third time , and the card thought of will infallibly be the THIRD of the rank named by the party . 
This trick , which is very easy , always produces a great effect . 
It only requires a little attention , and it can never fail unless you make a mistake in arranging the cards , which , however , is too simple to admit of error . 
These two sets being before the performer , he takes one , shuffles it well , and lets a party take a card . 
He then takes the other , shuffles it , and lets another party take a card . 
Consequently , all the shuffling and cutting in the world will be useless , for the performer has only to spread out the cards of each set to point out the cards drawn . 
Singular arrangement of sixteen cards . 
Everybody will think the thing easy , but it is certain that no one will succeed in doing it . 
When they 'give it up , take the sixteen cards and arrange them as shown , when the king , queen , knave , and ten will stand as required . 
Infallible method for guessing any number that a party has thought of . 
Take the first ten cards of a pack of cards . 
By counting in this way , the party will at length count the entire number on the card thought of , which you will thus be able to designate with certainty . 
This trick may be performed with any number of cards as few as six , or as many as fifteen . 
Then you must always add to the number the total of the cards used . 
The trick will be much more interesting and striking if you turn the cards face downwards , only trusting to your memory to retain the order of the numbers . 
Of course , the letters are only used to facilitate the explanation . 
The card that cannot be found . 
Take any number of cards and spread them out fan like in your hand , faces fronting the spectators . 
Ask one of them to select a card . 
You tell him to take it , and then to place it at the bottom of the pack . 
You hold up the pack , so that the spectators may see that the card is really at the bottom . 
Suppose this card is the king of hearts . 
Then , pretending to take that card , you take the card preceding it , and place it at a point corresponding to A in the following figure . 
A C B D You then take the card drawn , namely , the king of hearts , and place it at the point corresponding to B in the above figure . 
Finally , you take any two other cards , and place them at C and D. Of course , the cards are placed face downwards . 
Of course , seeing no difficulty in the thing , and believing with everybody that his card is placed at the point A , he will undertake to follow and find his card . 
Feeling sure that he never lost sight of it , he instantly turns one of the cards and is astonished to find that it is not his own . 
Then you say 'I told you you would not be able to follow your card in its ramble . 
Cards being drawn from a pack , to get them guessed by a person blindfolded . 
At all these performances there are always amongst the spectators persons in league with the prestidigitator . 
The performer takes a handkerchief and blindfolds the lady in question , and places her in the centre of the circle of spectators . 
Then spreading out the cards , he requests each of the spectators to draw a card . 
Of course this appears wonderful to the spectators , and their astonishment goes on increasing whilst the lady names every card in succession to the last . 
It is , however , a very simple affair . 
Suppose the party has drawn the king of hearts . 
Its letter is A. The performer exclaims 'Ah ! I'm sure you know this ! The A at once suggests the card in question . 
Suppose it is the ace of clubs . 
He says 'Jump at conclusions if you like , but be sure in hitting this card on the nail . 
J begins the phrase , and represents the card in question . 
Suppose it is the ten of spades , he cries out 'Zounds ! if you mistake this you are not so clever a medium as I took you for . 
The ace of diamonds 'Quite easy , my dear sir , or 'my dear ma'am , as the case may be . 
Q represents the ace of diamonds . 
The queen of diamonds 'Oh , the beauty ! The ace of hearts 'Dear me ! what is this ? The ace of spades 'You are always right , name it . 
The nine of diamonds 'So ! so ! well , I'm sure she knows it . 
Doubtless these specimens will suffice to suggest phrases for every other card . 
However , it will be better to take every precaution rather than run the risk of stopping in the performance , whose success mainly depends upon the apparently inspired rapidity of the answers . 
The performer might conceal in the hollow of his hand a small table exactly like the figure , to facilitate his questions . 
As for the medium , he , or she , must rely entirely on memory . 
Of course the spectators may be allowed to see that the medium is completely blindfolded . 
This modern trick has always puzzled the keenest spectators . 
The mystery of double sight . 
Take cards and arrange them in four lines , one under the other . 
You arrange with your assistant to name the first line after the days of the week the second will represent the weeks , the third the months , the fourth the years . 
The assistant is enjoined to count the days aloud , and the first card by the left . 
The following is the entire scheme Days Weeks Months Years The cards being thus arranged , the party who has to guess them retires from the room . 
Suppose the card touched be one of those marked with the asterisks if it be the first , the associate says , I give him eight days to guess it . 
If it be the card holding the place of the number marked with two asterisks the associate says 'three months , and 'seven years' for the one marked with three asterisks . 
Such is the simple process and the following is the conventional catechism adopted by all theoperators in double sight , with a few variations adapted to circumstances . 
With this collection of words and phrases , every existing object can be guessed , provided care be taken to classify them according to the following indications . 
To operate , two persons must establish a perfect understanding between them . 
One undertakes the questions , the other the answers , the latter having his eyes perfectly blindfolded . 
Both of them must thoroughly know the following numbers with their correspondences . 
What is the object , or thing . 
Which ? Example Add the question of the simple number to the question of the decade or ten . 
Thus , in pronouncing the words 'Say now , for say is , and now is , total . 
This , therefore , forms question . 
Again 'Tell me which number , for 'tell me' is , and 'which' is , total . 
Thirdly 'I request you instantly , for 'I request you' is , and 'instantly' is , total . 
All the expressions or words that follow are totally independent of the answer , and are only adapted to embellish or mystify the question as far as the audience is concerned . 
Instantly , what I have in my hand ? Answer , A watch . 
Quick , the hour ? Answer , nine o'clock . 
Question , I request you reply the minutes . 
Answer , minutes , that is and , equal to . 
It would be useless to give the entire correspondence invented for this apparently mysterious revelation , as a few specimens will suffice to show the principle . 
Say what I hold ? A handkerchief . 
Say now what I hold ? A snuff box . 
Say , reply , what I hold ? A pair of spectacles . 
Say and name what I hold ? A box . 
Say and try to say what I hold ? A hat . 
Say quickly what I hold ? An umbrella . 
Tell me , reply , what I hold ? A knife . 
Tell me what I hold ? A purse . 
Tell me now what I hold ? A pipe . 
Tell me and try to say what I hold ? A needle . 
Tell me quickly what I hold ? A cane . 
I request you to say what I hold ? A portfolio . 
I request you to say now what I hold ? Paper . 
I request you to say , reply , what I hold ? A book . 
I request you to say quickly what I hold ? A coin . 
Will you say , reply , what I hold ? A cigar . 
Will you say , name what I hold ? A cane . 
Will you say , again , what I hold ? A newspaper . 
Now , what I hold ? A bottle . 
Reply , what I hold ? A jug . 
Name what I hold ? A glass . 
Again , what contains this vessel ? Wine . 
Instantly , what this vessel contains ? Beer . 
Now the form ? Triangular . 
Reply , the form ? Round . 
Name the form ? Square . 
Try to indicate the form ? Pointed . 
Again , indicate the form ? Flat . 
Now , the colour ? White . 
Reply , the colour ? Blue . 
Name the colour ? Red . 
The colour of this object ? Black . 
Try to tell the colour ? Green . 
Again , the colour ? Yellow . 
Now , the metal ? Gold . 
Reply , the metal ? Silver . 
The metal of the thing ? Copper . 
Again , the metal ? Iron . 
Instantly , the metal ? Lead . 
Ah ! the figure or hour ? . 
Now name the suit of this card ? Clubs . 
Reply , the suit of this card ? Hearts . 
Name the suit of this card ? Spades . 
The suit of this card ? Diamonds . 
It is obvious , from the preceding specimen , that a conventional catechism involving every object can be contrived by two persons , and adapted to every circumstance . 
The striking performances of the most notorious mesmeric 'patients' in this line prove the possibility of the achievement . 
He shook his head , said he would try but it was useless . 
She said she 'couldn't do it , and the agent frankly admitted that it was a failure . 
This experiment suffices to prove that the revelations are communicated in the matter of fact way which I have sufficiently described . 
Should it happen that a spectator has discovered the method , the performers easily turn the tables against him . 
They have always ready a conventional list of common things and the agent undertakes that his mesmeric patient will indicate them without hearing a word from him , even in another apartment . 
The agent then merely touches the object , and the patient begins with the first name in his list . 
Five persons having each thought of a different card , to guess five cards . 
Take twenty five cards , show five of them to a party , requesting him to think of one , then place them one upon the other . 
Proceed in like manner with five more to a second party , and so on , five parties in all , placing the fives on the top of each other . 
Of course five persons are not necessary . 
If there be but one person , the card must be the first of the lot he points to . 
It would be more artistic , perhaps , if you dispense with seeing the cards , making the lots up with your eyes turned away from the table . 
This card trick , to which I have alluded in a previous page , cannot fail to produce astonishment and it is one of the most difficult to unravel . 
Hand a pack of cards to a party , requesting him to make up parcels of cards , in the following manner . 
All the court cards count as pips consequently , only two cards will be placed on such to make up . 
The ace counts as only one pip . 
The secret is very simple . 
, and adding the remaining cards , if any , to the product . 
Thus , there have just been made up seven packets , with five cards over . 
are , and adding to this the five cards over , I at once declare the number of pips made up by the first cards turned down to be . 
There is another way of performing this striking trick . 
Find the number of cards in the parcels , by subtracting the remainder , if any , from . 
To demonstrate this take the case just given . 
There are seven parcels and five cards over . 
First , this proves that there are cards in the seven parcels made up of pips and cards . 
Secondly , subtract the number of pip cards seven from the number of cards in the parcels then , from , remain . 
, and the remainder is , the number of pips as found by the first method explained , the process being as follows . 
In general , however , the first method , being the easiest of performance , should be adopted . 
The second is in many respects very objectionable . 
To get a card into a pack firmly held by a party . 
This trick strikingly shows how easily we may all be deceived by appearances . 
This injunction rivets his attention , and doubtless , like other wise people destined to be deceived , he feels quite sure that nobody can 'take him in . 
Then request the party to look for the six of hearts in the pack , and he will surely find it , to his amazement . 
This trick may be performed in a drawing room , if the operator be seated , dropping the card behind his back , especially in an easy chair . 
