The Gathering of Brother Hilarius by Michael Fairless Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
On his left lay the forest , home of his longing imaginings . 
The Monastery wall crept up one side of it , and over the top the great trees peered and beckoned with their tossing , feathery branches . 
Away to the right , within the great enclosure , stretched the Monastery lands , fair to the eye , with orchard and fruitful field , teeming with glad , unhurried labour . 
The sun shone hot on grey wall and green garth the spirit of insistent peace brooded over the place . 
It rested everywhere , this peace of prayerful service , where the clang of the blacksmith's hammer smote the sound of the Office bell . 
Hilarius , at the gate , questioned the road again and again for sign of the belated train . 
It was vexatious the Prior's lips would take a thinner line , for the mules were already some days overdue and it was ill to keep the Prior waiting . 
The soft June wind swept the fragrance of Mary's lilies across to the lad he turned his dreamy , blue eyes from the highway to the forest . 
The scent of the pinewoods rushed to meet his sudden thought . 
Here and there a coney peeped out and fled , and a woodpecker toiled with sharp , effective stroke . 
He went on his way , singing Lauda Syon , his eyes following the pine boles , and presently , coming out into an open glade , halted in amazement . 
A flower incarnate stood before him stood nay , danced in the wind . 
Hilarius' eyes travelled upwards and rested there . 
A sight for gods , but not for monks above all , not for untutored novices such as Hilarius . 
O what a pretty boy ! she cried gaily . 
Playing truant , I dare wager . 
Come and dance ! Hilarius crimsoned with shame and horror . 
No more devil's guise than thine own , she retorted , eyeing his semi monastic garb with scant favour . 
It is wrong to deck the body , began Hilarius , softening at her attitude , because , because Again the merry laugh rang out . 
, methinks thy sermon is not ready let it simmer awhile , and I will catechise . 
How old art thou ? She held up her small finger admonishingly . 
Seventeen , replied Hilarius , surprised into reply . 
Art thou a monk ? Nay , a novice only . 
Hast thou ever loved ? Hilarius threw up his hands in shocked indignation , but she went on unconcerned 'Twas a foolish question the answer's writ large for any maid to read . 
But tell me , why art thou angry at the thought of love ? Hilarius felt the ground slipping from under his feet . 
There is an evil love , and a holy love it is good to love God and the Saints and the Brethren But not the sisters ? the wicked little laugh pealed out . 
'Tis the devil and the monks who call it evil . 
Hast thou never seen the birds mate in the springtime , nor heard the nightingale sing ? It is well for a husband to love his wife , and a mother her child . 
That is love in measure , but not so high as the love we bear to God and the Saints ! quoth Hilarius sententiously , mindful of yesterday's homily in the Frater . 
But how can'st thou know that thou lovest the Saints ? the dancer persisted . 
Dost thou dare speak to me of my mother ? I , love her ? I hate her and she flung herself down on the grass in a passion of weeping . 
Even a master of theology is helpless before a woman's tears . 
Maid , maid , said Hilarius , in deep distress , indeed I did not mean to vex thee and he came up and laid his hand on her shoulder . 
There , boy , 'tis naught . 
How could'st thou know ? But what of thine own mother ? I know not . 
Nay , what is this ? And thy father ? He was a gentle knight who died in battle ere I knew him . 
I came a little child to the Monastery , and know no other place . 
Ah , vindictively , then thy mother may have been a light o' love . 
Light of love it has a wondrous fair sound , said Hilarius with a smile . 
The maid looked at him speechless . 
Go home , Boy , she said at last emphatically . 
Just then a lad , a tumbler by his dress , pushed a way through the undergrowth , and stood grinning at the pair . 
So , Gia ! he said . 
We must make haste the others wait . 
''Tis my brother , said the dancer , and pointing to the bag slung across the youth's shoulder I trust he hath a fine fat hen from thy Monastery for our meal . 
Hilarius broke into a cold sweat . 
The Convent's hens ! The Saints preserve us ! Was nothing sacred , and were the Ten Commandments written solely for use in the Monasteries ? 'Tis stealing , he said feebly . 
'Tis stealing , the dancer mocked . 
Hast thou another sermon ready , Sir Preacher ? Empty bellies make light fingers , quoth the youth . 
Did'st thou ever hunger , master ? There is the fast of Lent which presses somewhat , said Hilarius . 
But ever a meal certain once in the day ? queried the girl . 
Ay , surely , and collation also and Sunday is no fast . 
Thou dost know it is wrong to love any but God , the Saints , and thy mother but thou hast never known a mother , nor felt what it was to love . 
Blind eyes ! Blind eyes ! the very forest could teach thee these things an thou would'st learn . 
Hilarius stared after them until they disappeared , and then with dazed eyes and drooping head took his way back to the Monastery . 
Methinks this gold is dull , Brother , said Hilarius one day , fretfully , to his old master . 
And again 'Tis very poor vermilion . 
The Brother looked at him enquiry . 
Nay , nay , boy 'tis thine eyes at fault naught ails the colours . 
Later , the Precentor came to look at the delicate border Hilarius was setting to the page of the Nativity of Our Lady . 
Now may God be good to us ! he cried with uplifted hands . 
It was the same in chapel . 
The insistent question pursued him through chant and psalm . 
Did he love the Prior ? He feared him and his voice was for Hilarius as the voice of God Himself . 
Brother John ? He feared him too Brother John's tongue was a thing to fear . 
Two sulphur butterflies sported around the tall white lilies at the farmery door . 
Did they love ? He watched the sparrows at their second nesting , full of business and cheerful bickerings . 
Did they love ? She had said the answer was writ large for him to see he wandered staring , wide eyed but sightless . 
At last in his sore distress he turned to the Prior , as the ship wrecked mariner turns to the sea girt rock that towers serene and unhurt above the devouring waves . 
The Prior heard him patiently , with here and there a shrewd question . 
When the halting tale was told he mused awhile , his stern blue eyes grew tender , and a little smile troubled the firm line of his mouth . 
My son , he said at length , thou art in the wrong school nursery , was it the maid said ? A shrewd lass and welcome to the hen . 
Thou art a limner at heart Brother Bernard tells of thy wondrous skill with the brush and to be limner thou must learn to hunger and to love as the maid said . 
Ay , boy , and to be monk too , though alack , men gainsay it . 
Father , said Hilarius , waxing bold from excessive need , did'st thou ever love as the maid meant ? Ay , boy thy mother . 
There was a long silence . 
Then the boy said timidly The maid said she might be light of love 'tis a beautiful thought . 
Boy , said the Prior gravely , 'tis a weary tale , and sad of telling . 
Thy mother was wondrous fair without , but she reckoned love lightly , nay , knew it not for the holy thing it is , but thought only of bodily lusts . 
Pray for her soul his voice grew stern as for one of those upon whom God , in His great pity , may have mercy . 
Thus have I prayed these many years . 
Hilarius looked at him in wide eyed horror She was evil , wicked , my mother ? Ay a light woman , that was what the maid meant . 
Then great darkness fell upon the soul of Hilarius , and he clasped the Prior's knees weeping and praying like a little child . 
I may set in order thy going and send the Chamberlain hither to me . 
That night Hilarius knelt through the long hours at the great Rood , and then at St Mary Maudlin's altar he did penance for his dead mother's sin . 
The Prior gave him the Communion and later walked beside him to the gates . 
Then as Hilarius knelt he blessed him and the boy , overmastered by nameless fear , sprang up and prayed that he might stay and learn some other way , however hard . 
The Prior shook his head . 
CHAPTER III THE KING'S SONG BIRD MARTIN THE MINSTREL sat under a wayside oak singing softly to himself as he tuned his vielle . 
He was a long lanky fellow with straight black locks flat against his sallow face , and dark eyes that smouldered in hollow cavities . 
He wore the King's colours , and broke a manchet of white bread with his mid day repast . 
Now but another few leagues and the cage again . 
Money in my pocket , true but a song here and a song there , such as suit the fancy of the Court gentles , not of Martin the Minstrel . 
Heigh ho , heigh ho ! 'tis a poor bird sings at the word of a king , and a poor enough song too , if Edward did but know it . 
Who comes here ? Faith , the lad goes a steady pace and carries a light heart from his song and no ill voice either . 
It was Hilarius , and he sang the Alma Redemptoris as he sped along the green grass which bordered the highway . 
When Martin hailed him he turned aside gladly , and his face lit up at the sight of the vielle . 
Whence dost thou come , lad ? said Martin , eyeing him with interest . 
Many days' journey from the Monastery of Prior Stephen , answered Hilarius . 
But thou art no monk ! Nay , a novice scarcely but the Prior hath bidden me go forth to see the world . 
It is wondrous fair , he added sincerely . 
He who speaks thus is cloister bred , said Martin , and as Hilarius made sign of assent , 'tis writ on thy face as well . 
Thy Prior gave thee letters to the Abbat of St Peter's , I doubt not thy face is set for Westminster . 
Ay , for Westminster , but my letters are for that good knight , Sir John Maltravers . 
I should have made an end of my journeying ere now but that two days ago I met strange company . 
They took my purse and hat and shoes , and kept me with them all night until the late dawn . 
Then they gave me my goods again , and bade me God speed . 
But kept thy purse ? Martin laughed . 
Nay , it is here , and naught is missing . 
Thou art a pretty lad , I wager one or other will claim thee for page . 
I will strive to serve well , said Hilarius soberly , but I have never spoken but to one maid 'til yesterday , when a woman gave me good morrow . 
Martin looked at his companion queerly . 
But first I would learn to be a real limner I have some small skill with the brush , he added simply . 
Back to the cloister ? Nay , lad , best turn about and get back now , not wait till thou hast had a taste of Court life . 
Nay , that life will not be for me . 
I am to serve my lord , write for him , methinks . 
But tell me , good Martin , dost thou love the Court ? It seems a fine thing to be the King's Minstrel . 
Nay , lad , nay , said the other hastily , give me the open country and the greenwood , and leave to sing or be silent . 
He struck his vielle lightly , and the two fell into a slower pace as the minstrel sang . 
The song itself was sad of a lover torn from his mistress and borne away captive to alien service . 
He stopped suddenly , louted low to the sky , and with comprehensive gesture took in the countryside . 
A fair mistress , lad , and a faithful one , though of many moods . 
She gives all and yet nothing she trails the very traces of her hair across a man's face only to elude him . 
She holds him fast , for she is mother of all his children yet he must seek as though he knew her not , or she flouts him . 
Ay , marry I have more times than I count years . 
But see , here comes one who knows little enough of hunger or love . 
Round the bend of the road came a man in hermit's dress carrying a staff and a well filled wallet . 
His carriage seemed suddenly to become less upright , and he leaned heavily on his stick as he besought an alms from the two travellers . 
Hilarius felt for his purse , but Martin stayed him . 
Nay , lad , better have left thy money with the pick purses than help to fill the skin of this lazy rogue 'tis not the first time we have met . 
See here , and with a dexterous jerk he caught the hermit's wallet . 
Hilarius gazed horrified from the retreating figure to his laughing companion , who answered the unspoken question . 
A rascal , lad , yon carrion , and no holy father . 
They are the pest of every country side , these lazy rogues , who never do a hand's turn and yet live better than many a squire . 
I warrant he has good stuff in that larder of his to make merry with . 
Hilarius walked on for some time in silence with bent head . 
I fear the world is an ill place and far from godliness , he said at last . 
Hilarius gave a little cry . 
'Tis like the New Jerusalem ! he said , and Martin smiled grimly . 
An hour later they stood within the walls of Westminster city , and Hilarius , amazed and weary , clung close to Martin's side . 
Outside the taverns clustered all sorts and conditions of men , drinking , gossiping , singing , for the day's work was done . 
A string of pack horses in the narrow street sent folk flying for refuge to the low dark doorways , and a buxom wench , seeing the pretty lad , bussed him soundly . 
This was too much , only the man in him stayed the indignant tears . 
Martin , Martin ! he cried but the minstrel was on his own ground now , and was hailed everywhere with acclamations , and news given and demanded in a breath . 
Martin did not forget him . 
He ate and drank thankfully , too dazed to take note of the meal and the pages and squires among whom he sat left him alone , abashed at his gentleness . 
At last , something restored by the much needed food , Hilarius looked round the hall . 
It reminded him of the Refectory at home , save that it was far loftier and heavily timbered . 
A raised table stood at the upper end of the hall , and here gaily dressed pages waited on the master of the house and his honoured guests . 
Even such a face must the Blessed Agnes have had , he thought , his mind reverting to his favourite Saint she is like the lilies in the garth at home . 
PART II THE FLOWER CHAPTER I THE CITY OF PURE GOLD BLIND eyes , blind eyes ! sang the dancer . 
Hilarius woke with a start . 
He had fallen asleep on a bench in the sunny courtyard and his dream had carried him back to the forest . 
He sat rubbing his eyes and only half awake , the sun kissing his hair into a halo against the old grey wall . 
A falcon near fretted restlessly on her perch , and a hound asleep by the fountain rose , and , slowly stretching its great limbs , came towards him . 
She moved through the gay vivid world of Court gallants and joyous maidens like a shadow , and the rout grew graver at her coming . 
It was a limner he longed to be , far away from the stir and stress , not a page attending a great lady to the Court functions . 
He yearned ever after the Scriptorium , with its busied monks and stores of colour and gold . 
It lay but a stone's throw away behind the jealous Monastery walls , but it was no part of Prior Stephen's plan that the lad should go straight from one cloister to another . 
To Hilarius sitting on the bench in the sun , came one of Eleanor's tirewomen to bid him wait on her mistress . 
Hilarius found his mistress , her hands idle on her knee . 
He louted low , and she bade him bring a stool and sit beside her . 
I am weary , she said this life is weariness . 
Tell me of the Monastery and the forest stay , tell me rather of the New Jerusalem that Brother Ambrose saw and limned . 
And Brother Ambrose arose and was carried to a great and high mountain , even as in the Vision of Blessed John . 
Then between the stars came the Holy City with roof and pinnacle aflame , and walls aglow with such colours as no earthly limner dreams of , and much gold . 
Lady Eleanor clasped her shadowy blue veined hands under her chin , and in her eyes too was a great longing . 
It seemeth to me small wonder that Brother Ambrose fell sick , she said , at length . 
Hilarius nodded He had ever a patient , wistful look as of one from home and often he would sit musing in the cloister and scarce give heed to the Office bell . 
Methinks , Hilarius , it will be passing sweet to dwell in that Holy City . 
Nay , lady , said her page tenderly , surely thou hast had a vision even as Brother Ambrose , for thine eyes wait always , like unto his . 
Eleanor shook her head , and two tears crept slowly from the shadow of her eyes . 
Hilarius looked at her with great compassion . 
Sweet lady , the Lord fulfil all thy desires yet , methinks , thou art already as one of His saints . 
Nay , but a poor sinner in an evil world , she answered . 
Sing to me , Hilarius . 
And he sang her the Salve Regina , and when it was ended she bade him go , for she would fain spend some time in prayer upon her primer . 
Our Lady and all Saints be with thee , sweet mistress ! he said , and left her to sob out once more the sins and sorrows of her tender childlike heart . 
CHAPTER II THE CITY THAT HILARIUS SAW HILARIUS went back to the courtyard , his soul full of trouble . 
He leant against the fountain , playing with the cool water which fell with monotonous rhythm into the shallow timeworn basin . 
The cloudless sky smiled back at him from the broken mirror into which he gazed , and the glory of its untroubled blue thrilled him strangely . 
He deemed that he had plumbed its hollowness and learnt the full measure of its vanity . 
Already he shunned the company and diversions of his fellow pages , though he was ever ready to serve them . 
A prentice lad's homely brawl set him shivering a woman's jest painted his cheeks 'til they rivalled a young maid's at her first wooing . 
Suddenly there broke on his musing the clatter of horse hoofs , and a gay young page came spurring with bent head under the low archway . 
He reined up by Hilarius Dear lad , kind lad , wilt thou do me a service ? That will I , Hal , an it be in my power . 
Take this purse , then , to the Cock Tavern and give it mine host . 
'Tis Luke Langland's reckoning he left it with me yesternight , but my head was full of feast and tourney , and 'tis yet undelivered . 
Mine host will not let the serving men and the two horses go 'til he hath seen Luke's money , and I cannot stay , for my lord will need me . 
Hilarius took the purse and his fellow page , blessing him for a good comrade , clattered back through the gateway . 
The streets were full of life and colour serving men in the livery of Abbat and Knight , King and Cardinal , lounged at the tavern doors dicing , gaming , and drinking . 
Hilarius walked delicately and strove to shut eyes and ears to the sights and sounds of sin . 
The quiet of a narrow street invited him he turned aside , and suddenly traffic and turmoil died away . 
The city without seemed very far from this dismal sordid place . 
Sanctuary , stammered Hilarius , nay , good sir , I The other laughed . 
I did but seek a quiet way home and lost the turning , said Hilarius in sooth , 'tis a fearful place . 
The unspoken question shone in Hilarius' eyes , and the other answered it . 
Nay , there is no blood on my soul , young sir . 
'Twas good advice I gave , well meant but ill received , so here I dwell to learn the wisdom of fools and the foolishness of wisdom . 
Does the Abbat know what evil men these are that seek the shelter of Holy Church ? asked Hilarius , perplexed . 
Most surely he knows but what would'st thou have ? It hath ever been the part of the Church to embrace sinners with open arms lest they repent . 
A man leaves wrath behind him when he flees hither but should he set foot in the city without , he is the law's , and no man may gainsay it . 
Nay , sir , but these look far from repentance , said Hilarius . 
Ay , ay , true eno' , rejoined the other cheerfully , but then 'tis not for nothing Mother Church holds the keys . 
Man's law may fail to reach , but there is ever hell fire for the unrepented sinner . 
Hilarius nodded , and his eyes wandered over the squalid place with the North Porch of the Abbey for its sole beauty . 
It must be as hell here , to live with robbers and men with bloody hands . 
Nay , said the old man hastily , many of them are kindly folk , and many have slain in anger without thought . 
'Tis a sad place , though , and thy young face is like a sunbeam on a winter's day . 
Come , I will show thee thy road . 
He led Hilarius through the winding alleys and set him once more on the edge of the city's stir and hum . 
I can no further , he said . 
Farewell , young sir , and God keep thee ! An old man's blessing ne'er harmed any one . 
Hilarius gave him godden , and sped swiftly back through the streets crowded with folks returning from the tourney . 
The Abbey bell rang out above the shouts and din . 
'Tis an evil , evil world , quoth young Hilarius . 
CHAPTER III A SENDING FROM THE LORD OCTOBER and November came and sped , and Hilarius' longing to be a limner waxed with the waning year . 
One day by the waterside he met Martin , of whom he saw now much , now little , for the Minstrel followed the Court . 
I must be away to my mistress , winter or no winter , else my song will die and my heart break . 
Martin whistled and smote the lad friendly on the shoulder . 
Patience , lad , patience , thou art young yet . 
Eighteen this Martinmas , say you ? In truth 'tis a great age , but still leaves time and to spare . 
'All things come to a waiting man , saith the proverb . 
A week later he chanced on Hilarius sitting on a bench under the south wall of the farmery cloister . 
It was a mild , melancholy day , and suited the Minstrel's mood . 
Hilarius looked at him questioningly . 
Lad , hast thou ever seen Death ? Nay , good Martin . 
It comes , lad , it comes or I am greatly at fault . 
Mark my words , lad , thou wilt know Death ere the winter is out , and such as God keep thee from . 
Hilarius understood little of these words but the sound of them , and turned to speak of other things . 
Martin looked at him gloomily . 
Best get back to the cloister and Prior Stephen , lad . 
Nay , good Martin , that may not be but I have still a letter for the Abbat of St Alban's , and would hasten thither if Sir John would set me free . 
Martin laughed and then grew grave again . 
Maybe he comes who will teach thee both , and yet I would fain find thee a kinder master . 
Well , well , lad , get thee to St Alban's an it be possible thou art best in a cloister , methinks , for all thy wise Prior Stephen may say . 
Ah , well a day , well a day ! One two three ! On the gallows tree hung they . 
Hilarius listened with a smile until the last notes of Martin's voice had died away , and then fell a musing of hunger and love , the dancer and the Prior . 
He sprang to his feet , but there was no one in sight . 
Again the shrill quavering voice called Love of God , I hunger , Love of God , I die . 
He was held a saint above all the ankrets before him , and wondrous wise the King himself had sought his counsel , and the Convent held him in high esteem . 
Again the voice Hilarius strove to reach up to the grated window of the cell it was too high above him . 
An overpowering desire came upon him to ask the Ankret of his future . 
With a spring he caught at the window's upright bars his cap flew off and he hung bare headed , the sun behind him , gazing into the cell . 
On his knees was an old man whose long white hair lay in matted locks upon his shoulders , and whose beard fell far below his girdle . 
The skin of his face was like grey parchment , and his deep set eyes glowed strangely in their hollow cavities . 
Hilarius strove to speak , but words failed him . 
The Ankret looking up saw the beautiful face at his window with its aureole of yellow hair , and stretched out his bony withered hands . 
Blessed Michael , Blessed Michael , the messenger of the Lord ! he cried , gaining strength from the vision . 
What would'st thou , Father ! said Hilarius , afraid . 
Nay , who am I that I should speak ? and yet , and yet the old man's voice grew weaker the Bread of Heaven , that I may die in peace . 
He stretched out his hands again entreatingly , and Hilarius was sore perplexed . 
Dost thou crave speech of the Abbat , my Father ? The Ankret looked troubled . 
Blessed Michael , Blessed Michael ! he murmured entreatingly . 
Hilarius' hands hurt him sore it was clear that the holy man saw some wondrous vision , and 'twas no gain time to speech of him . 
Blessed Michael , Blessed Michael ! quavered the old , tired voice . 
Hilarius felt himself slipping with a great effort he held fast and braced himself against the wall Blessed Michael , Blessed Michael ! The appeal in the half dead face was awful . 
Hilarius' grip failed he slid to the ground bruised and sore from the unaccustomed strain , but well pleased . 
He turned to go , when a sudden thought came to him . 
There was no one in sight , no sound but the failing cry from the tired old saint . 
At the fourth stanza his memory failed him but he could hear the Ankret crooning to himself the words he had sung , and crying softly like a little child . 
He told Lady Eleanor of Martin's words . 
God save the King ! she said , and went into her oratory to pray and there was need of prayer , for the Minstrel's foreboding was no idle one . 
Ere London knew it the Plague was at her gates yet the King , undeterred , came to spend Christmas at Westminster but Martin was not in his train . 
Men's mirth waxed hot by reason of the terror they would not recognise . 
The good knight , feeling one page more or less mattered little when Death was so ready to serve , and anxious for the lad's safety and well being , assented gladly enough . 
One procession , and one only , did Hilarius meet making its way to London . 
Suddenly the sound of a mournful chant smote upon the still air , music and words alike strange . 
They were stripped to the waist , their backs torn and bleeding , and carried each a bloody scourge wherewith to strike his fellow . 
At the third step they signed the sign of the Cross with their prostrate bodies on the ground and thus in blood and penitence they went towards London . 
Hilarius was familiar with the exercise but not the manner of it . 
These strange , wild men filled him with horror , and he shrank back with the rest . 
Then a man sprang from among the watching crowd , tore off jerkin and shirt , and flung up his arms to heaven with a great sob . 
I left wife and children to perish alone , he cried , and fled to save my miserable skin . 
Now may God have mercy on my soul , for I go back . 
Smite , and smite hard , brother ! and he stepped in front of the first flagellant . 
At last , exhausted and panting , he stayed to rest , and saw , coming towards him , a blind friar . 
Hilarius had turned into a by way in the hurry of his terror , and they two were alone . 
The friar was a small , mean looking man , feeling his way by the aid of hand and staff his face upturned , craving the light . 
He stopped when he came up with Hilarius , and turned his sightless eyes on him a fire burnt in the dead ashes . 
Son , thou wilt come with me ? Nay , good Father , I may not I am for St Alban's . 
Whence , my son ? From Westminster , good Father . 
Nay , then , thou mayest spare shoe leather . 
I left the Monastery but now , and , I warrant thee , they promise small welcome to those from the pestilent cities . 
What would'st thou with the Abbat ? Hilarius told him . 
The friar flung up his hands . 
Laus Deo ! Laus Deo ! he cried , now I know thou art in very truth the lad of my dream . 
Listen , my son , and I will tell thee all . 
They beat me full sore in the market place then , piercing my eyeballs , set me adrift in a small boat . 
And then , and then ? tried Hilarius breathlessly , tears of pure pity in his eyes . 
Then the Lord cared for me even as He cared for the Prophet Jonas , and sent a ship that His message might not be hindered . 
The shipmen were kindly folk , but we were driven out of our course by a great wind , and at last came ashore in Lincolnshire . 
I have come south thus far by the aid of Christian men , but time presses and now , lo ! thou art here to guide me . 
Hilarius listened , gazing awestruck at the withered eyes that vainly questioned his face . 
He had forgotten plague , death , flagellants , in this absorbing tale of the man of God , who was even as one of the blessed martyrs . 
CHAPTER V THE WHITE WAY AND WHERE IT LED IT was a bitterly cold night and St Agnes' Eve the snow fell heavily , caught into whirling eddies by the keen north wind . 
I can no more , Father , he said , the snow is as a wall there is naught to see or to hear I deem we are far from our right way . 
His voice was very weak , and he caught at the Friar for support . 
Nay , my Father , said Hilarius feebly , I see no angels , and I perish . 
He tottered , and would have fallen , but the Friar caught him in his arms . 
A moment he stood irresolute , the boy on his breast , then flung away his staff and lifted him to his shoulder . 
With unerring , confident step he went forward through the snow , a white figure bearing a white burden in a white world . 
A miracle , a miracle , my Father ! A miracle , i' faith , my son the Lord hath given guidance to the blind as He promised . 
They went by the white way under the stars and Hilarius was full of awe and comfort because of the angels of God which attended on a poor friar . 
At the village hostel they found rough but friendly entertainment and several guests . 
They dried themselves at a roaring fire , and Hilarius made a hearty meal the Friar would eat nothing save a morsel of bread . 
A messenger was there , a short stout man with stubbly beard , bright black eyes like beads , and a high colour . 
One great lord , travelling post haste from Westminster , had been found by his servants to have the disorder , and they fled , leaving him by the wayside to perish . 
'Tis a grievous shame so to desert a sick master , he said . 
Nay , lad , said a chapman in the corner , but a man loves his own skin best . 
Ay , ay , said a fat ruddy faced miller , overtaken by the storm on his way to a neighbouring village , a man's own skin before all . 
Fill your belly first and your neighbour's afterwards . 
The chapman took his cider . 
Where was this work done ? he said . 
Nay , where but here on the bruary ! The women were found Wednesday se'n night by the herd as he went folding . 
They lay on the floor in their blood . 
The rich grow fat , and the poor starve , he went on , 'tis hunger makes a man kill his brother for a mouthful of mouldy bacon . 
Nay , said the miller , there was no need to kill , Father . 
A man could have taken the meat from two lone women and left them their lives . 
Why take from folk as poor as themselves ? said mine host . 
Let them rob the rich an they must rob . 
Mine host scratched his head doubtfully . 
The teaching was seditious , and made a man liable to stocks and pillory but it tickled the ears of the common folk and 'twas ill to quarrel with the Mendicants . 
Help came to him in his perplexity a loud knocking on the barred door made the guests within start . 
'Tis eight o' the clock , said the miller , affrighted , for he had a heavy purse on him . 
Let them knock and cool their hot heads , said the seditious friar composedly . 
Then a man's voice threatened without . 
What ho ! unbar the door . 
Is this a night to keep a man without ? Open , open , or , by the Mass , thou shalt smart for it . 
Mine host shook his head fearfully , and his fat cheeks trembled he moved slowly and unwillingly to the door and took down the stout wooden bar . 
As it swung back the door flew open , and a man burst in , at sight of whom mine host turned yet paler . 
Food and drink , said the new comer sharply , flinging himself on a bench by the fire . 
Hilarius thought he had never seen so strange a fellow . 
His hair was close cropped ay , and his ears also . 
His eyes were very small and near together his nose a shapeless lump his lip drawn up showed two rat like teeth . 
He plucked one to him , and in a moment the air was full of tender liquid notes a thrush's roundelay . 
Then a blackbird called and his mate answered a cuckoo cried the spring song a linnet mourned with lifting cadence a nightingale poured forth her deathless love . 
Mine host came in with a dish piled high and a stoop of mead the man threw the pipe from him with a rough oath and fell to ravenously on the victuals . 
He held his head low and ate brutishly amid dead silence then he looked up and cursed at them for their sorry mood . 
Piping Hugh of Mildenhall , he said , and at his voice the man leapt to his feet and thrust his arm out as if for protection . 
Piping Hugh of Mildenhall , said the Friar again , I have a message for thee from the Lord God . 
Man hath branded thee now God will set His mark on thee and all men shall see it . 
The Plague will come and come swiftly , but it shall not touch thee many shall die in their sins thou shalt live on with thine . 
A brute thou art , and with brutes thou shalt herd thou shalt howl as a ravening wolf , and as such men shall hunt thee from their doors . 
Thou shalt seek death , even as Cain sought and found it not , because of the mark of the Lord . 
The guests huddled together aghast , and no man moved , until Hilarius , full of pride at his Friar's powers , stepped forward to close the door . 
He was too late it swung to with a loud crash like the sound of doom . 
The Friar sank back composedly on the bench , and the company began in silence to make preparation for the night . 
When all was ordered , Hilarius bade the Friar come , and he rose at the lad's voice and touch . 
Then he crossed to where the others stood apart eyeing him fearfully . 
He laid his hand on the miller's breast and said in a clear , low voice Thou wilt die , brother . 
He laid his hand on the messenger's breast Thou wilt die , brother . 
He laid his hand on the chapman's breast Thou wilt die , brother . 
He laid his hand on mine host's breast Thou wilt die , brother . 
Hilarius and the Friar were long on the road , for January's turbulent mood had imprisoned them many days , and early February had proved little kinder . 
In every village the Friar preached and called on men to repent and be saved , for Death's shadow was already upon them . 
At last St Matthias' Eve saw Hilarius and the Friar at St Edmund's Abbey . 
Martin , Martin ! he cried . 
The vielle was instantly silent . 
Hole , lad ! cried the Minstrel , springing to his feet he caught Hilarius to him and embraced him heartily . 
Why , lad , not back in thy monastery ? Nay , but I made sure the Plague would send thee flying home , and instead I find thee strayed farther afield . 
Then seeing the injured faces round him for that the song was not ended , he drew Hilarius to the bench beside him and took up his vielle . 
Be still now , lad , 'til I have finished my ditty for this worshipful company then , an't please thee to tell it , I will hear thy tale . 
, In his side and breast were bloody wounds . 
Woe , woe is me for the fair ladye , and the poor knight he , The poor knight Ah ! cold was he . 
, And the little birds rang mournfully , And the moonshine kissed her tenderly , And the stars looked down right pityingly On the poor fair maid and the poor cold knight . 
Ah misery , dear misery , sweet misery ! This mournful song was no sooner ended than supper was served and the company proved themselves good trenchermen . 
Hilarius caught sight of the seditious friar making short work of the Convent's victuals , and marvelled to see him in a place to which he had given so evil a name . 
Martin was unfeignedly glad to see the lad , and listened intently to his tale . 
Nay , nay , it is like a thief in the night . 
One day it is not and then the next , men sicken and fall like blasted wheat . 
Then Hilarius told of Piping Hugh and the Friar's death words to the guests . 
Martin swore a round oath and slapped his thigh . 
Methinks , lad , an thy Friar alloweth it , I will even go to Bungay with thee for I love thee well , lad , and would have thy company . 
Also I like not the matter of the vision and would fain see the end of it . 
That night the dream came again to the Friar , and a voice cried Haste , haste , ere it be too late . 
And so Hilarius and Martin came to Bungay , the Friar guiding them , for the way was his own . 
Quaint little Bungay lay snug enough in the embrace of the low vine crowned hills which half encircled common and town . 
The Friar strode forward , straining in his pace like a leashed hound Martin and Hilarius following . 
Once he stopped and turned a stricken face on his companions . 
What is that ? he said shrilly . 
A magpie went ducking across the road , and Hilarius crossed himself fearfully . 
Let us make haste , cried the Friar when they told him and so at full pace they came to Bungay town . 
The place looked empty and deserted , but from the distance came the roar and hum of an angry crowd . 
The people are abroad , said Martin , and his face was very grave , no doubt some knight is here , and there is a bear baiting on the common . 
Then he fell to parleying with the people , but Hilarius was too far off to catch what was said . 
An old woman lay on the ground by the river's edge a bundle of filthy water logged rags crowned by a bruised , vindictive face and grey hair smeared with filth and slime . 
Martin pressed forward , and then turning to the jeering , vengeful crowd By Christ's Rood , this is an evil work ye have wrought , he said . 
Nay , said one of the bystanders , but it was fair judgment , Minstrel . 
For years she hath worked her spells and black arts in this place , ay , and cattle have perished and women gone barren through her means . 
Near two days agone a child was lost and seen last near her door , ay , and never seen again . 
When we came to question her she cursed at us for meddling mischief makers , and would but glare and spit , and swear she knew naught of the misbegotten brat . 
Maybe 'twas true eno' , said Martin . 
I hate these rough cast witch findings 'tis not a matter for man's judgment , unless 'tis sworn and proven in court before the Justiciary . 
Nay , joined in an old man , what need of a Justice when God speaks ? We did but thole her to the river to see if she would sink or swim . 
For the love of Christ , lay her decently on her pallet , and say no word of this to yon holy man . 
Moved by his earnest manner , one or two more kindly folk busied themselves unfastening the ropes and thongs which bound the witch , and bore her to her wretched bed . 
Martin , finding his bidding accomplished , turned to meet Hilarius and the Friar who were now coming slowly across the windswept common . 
March mists gathered and draped the sluggish river the dry reeds rattled dismally in the ooze and sedge . 
Hilarius shivered , and the Friar started nervously when Martin spoke . 
The Friar drew a quick breath , and Hilarius questioned Martin with a look . 
The crowd parted to let them through , and hung their heads abashed in painful silence as the Friar , led by Hilarius , gave his blessing . 
They were close to the mean hovel now , and he turned to Martin . 
As they went into the wretched shed the setting sun broke through the lowering grey clouds and shone full on the dead woman . 
It lighted each vicious line and hideous trait of the wrinkled , toothless face , and betrayed the mark of an evil life , surcharged with horrid fear . 
Could this hideousness be death ? The Friar stepped forward , but Martin stayed him . 
Nay , touch her not , Father , it may be the pestilence as thou didst read in thy dream . 
The Friar fell on his knees and , in the silence that followed was heard the drip , drip , drip , from the sodden rags on the beaten earth floor . 
It was answered by another cry the glad cry of a lost child that is found . 
The Friar , standing in front of that hovel of death , preached to the cringing , terrified people , many of whom knelt and crouched in the down trodden grass and quag . 
He threw up his arms , and turned his blind , anguished face to the setting sun . 
Woe to the rebellious children , saith the Lord , that take counsel but not of Me , that they may add sin to sin . 
Darkness shall come upon them Death shall overtake them their place shall know them no more . 
Let them bare their backs to the scourge , let them confess and repent ere I visit them as I visited Sodom and Gomorrah , cities of the Plain . 
O ye people , ye have taken judgment in your hands and judged falsely withal but ye shall be judged in truth , yea , even according to your measure . 
Repent , repent , for Death cometh swiftly and maketh no long tarrying . 
It shall come it shall snatch men's souls away , even as ye have torn away my mother's soul , leaving no space for repentance . 
He stretched his hands out over the common , and pointed to the little town . 
Your dwellings shall be desolate , and this place a place of heaps . 
Ye shall run hither and thither , seeking safety and finding none for the arm of the Lord is stretched out still because of the wickedness of the earth . 
He made an imperative gesture of dismissal , and first one and then another in the crowd turned to slink home like beaten dogs , snarling , growling , but afraid . 
She was his mother , he said , as if making excuse . 
His mother ? Ay , but an evil liver and the people of Bungay had wrought a good work in sending her to her own place . 
He crossed himself piously at the thought of the near neighbourhood of devils busied with a thrice damned soul . 
Martin led them out of Bungay by the Earsham road , and the Friar clung to him like a little child , for the strength of his vision was spent . 
They lay that night with a friendly shepherd but only one slept , and that one Hilarius . 
On the morrow came the parting of the ways , for Hilarius was all aglow for Wymondham , and Martin had charged himself with the Friar at least as far as Norwich . 
And Hilarius once again the Angel of the Lord stood in the path of his desires . 
The sight brought Hilarius' thoughts sharply back to the events of the evening before . 
Presently the way led somewhat uphill , and he saw to his right a small hamlet . 
It lay some distance off his road , but he was sharp set , for the shepherd's fare had been meagre and so turned aside in the hope of an ale house . 
There was no side road visible , and he struck across the dank , marshy fields until he lighted on a rude track which led to the group of cottages . 
The place struck him as strangely quiet no smoke rose from the chimneys no dogs rushed out barking furiously at a stranger's advent . 
The first hovel he passed was empty , the open door showed a fireless hearth . 
At the second he knocked and heard a sound of scuffling within . 
As no one answered his repeated summons he pushed the door open the low room was desolate , but two bright eyes peered at him from a corner , 'twas a rat . 
Hilarius turned away , sudden fear at his heart , and passed on , finding in each hovel only empty silence . 
As he came up he heard a child crying , and lo ! on the doorstep sat a dirty little maid of some four summers , sobbing away for dear life . 
Hilarius approached diffidently , and stooped down to wipe away the grimy tears . 
The child regarded him , round eyes , open mouth then with a shrill cry of joy , she held out her thin arms . 
At the sound of her cry the door opened on the threshold stood a woman still young but haggard and weary eyed at her breast was a little babe . 
She stared at Hilarius , and then pulling the child to her in the doorway , waved him away . 
Stand off , fool ! 'tis the Plague . 
And thy neighbours ? he asked . 
Nay , they were light footed eno' when they saw what was to do , and left us three to die like rats in a hole . 
Then eagerly Hast thou any bread ? He shook his head . 
Nay , I came here seeking some . 
Art thou hungry ? She threw out her hands . 
'Tis two days sin' I had bite or sup . 
Where lies the nearest village ? and how far ? A matter of an hour , over yonder . 
See , goodwife , said Hilarius , I will go buy thee food and come again . 
She looked at him doubtfully . 
So said another , and he never came back . 
Nay , but perchance some evil befell him , said gentle Hilarius . 
Well , I will trust thee . 
She went in and returned with a few small coins . 
Tell no man whence thou art , else they will hunt thee from their doors . 
Hilarius nodded , took the money , and ran as fast as he could go in the direction of the village . 
Is it fear or love that lends him that pace ? she muttered , as she sat down to wait . 
'Tis for a sick child , he said when he asked for it , and the woman pushed back the money , bidding him God speed . 
The return journey was accomplished much more slowly , because of his precious burden and as he crossed a field , there , dead in a snare , lay a fine coney . 
Now hath Our Lady herself had thought for the poor mother ! cried Hilarius joyously , and added it to his store . 
For her , bread and milk . 
He sat down on a low stool , and taking the child on his knee slowly supplied the gaping , bird like mouth . 
At last the little maid heaved a sigh of content , leant her flaxen head against her nurse's shoulder , and fell fast asleep . 
Hilarius , cradling her carefully in gentle arms , crooned softly to her , thrilling with tenderness . 
She was his own , his little sister , the child he had found and saved . 
Surely Our Lady had guided him to her , and her great Mother love would shield this little one from a foul and horrid death . 
In that dirty , neglected room , the child warm against his breast , Hilarius lived the happiest moments of his life . 
The woman was half asleep , but started awake . 
Art thou going ? she said , and despair gazed at him from her eyes . 
Nay , nay , surely not until we all go together , he said soothingly . 
I would but kindle a fire , for the cold is bitter . 
Wood was plentiful , and soon a bright fire blazed on the hearth . 
The poor woman , heartened by her meal , rose and came to sit by it , and stretching out her thin hands to the grateful warmth , told her tale . 
Next day Jocell fell sick with vomitings , and bleeding , and breaking out of boils , and in three days he lay dead and Gammer Harden fell sick and died likewise . 
And thy husband ? said Hilarius . 
Nay , he was not my husband , but these are his children , his and mine . 
Some hold 'tis a sin to live thus , and perhaps because of it this evil hath fallen upon me . 
She looked at the babe lying on her lap , its waxen face drawn and shrunk with the stress of its short life . 
Let us pray God by His dear Mother to forgive us our sins and to have mercy on these little ones . 
And kneeling there in the firelight he besought the great Father for his new found family . 
Five days passed , and despite extreme care victuals were short . 
Then it came to Hilarius that he would once again beg food in the village where he had sought help before . 
He went slowly , for he had eaten little that his maid might be the better fed , and he was very sad . 
When he reached the village he found his errand like to be vain . 
News of the Plague was coming from many parts , and each man feared for his own skin . 
At every house they questioned him Art thou from a hamlet where the Plague hath been ? and when he answered Yea , the door was shut . 
Very soon men , angry and afraid , came to drive him from the place . 
He gained the village cross , and prayed them for love of the Saviour and His holy Rood to give him bread for his little maid and her mother . 
Let them set it in the street , he would take it and cross no man's threshold . 
Bruised and panting , he ran from them , and at last the chase ceased breathless and exhausted he flung himself under a hedge . 
A hawk swooped , struck near him , and rose again with its prey . 
Hilarius shuddered but perhaps the hawk had nestlings waiting open mouthed for food ? His little maid ! His eyes filled with tears as he thought of those who awaited him . 
He picked up a stone , and watched if perchance a coney might show itself . 
He had never killed , but were not his nestlings agape ? Nothing stirred , but along the road came a waggon of strange shape and gaily painted . 
He rose to his feet , praying the great Mother to send him help in his awful need . 
The waggon drew near the driver sat asleep upon the shaft , the horse took his own pace . 
It passed him before he could pluck up heart to ask an alms , and from the back dangled a small sack and a hen . 
If he begged and was refused his little maid must die . 
Seize the knave ! cried the girl sharply . 
Hilarius stared at her and she at him . 
It was his dancer , and she knew him , ay , despite the change of dress and scene , she knew him . 
What ! The worthy novice turned worldling and thief ! Nay , 'tis a rare jest . 
What of thy fine sermons now , good preacher ? But Hilarius answered never a word overcome by shame , grief , and hunger , sudden darkness fell upon him . 
When he came to himself he was sitting propped against the hedge the waggon was drawn up by the roadside , and the dancer and her brother stood watching him . 
Fetch bread and wine , said the girl , and to Hilarius who tried to speak , Peace , 'til thou hast eaten . 
Hilarius ate eagerly , and when he had made an end the dancer said Now tell thy tale . 
The dancer went to the waggon and came back with much food taken from her store , to which she added the hen the sack held but fodder . 
But , Gia , grumbled her brother , there will be naught for us to night . 
Thou canst eat bread , or else go hungry , she retorted , and filled a small sack with the victuals . 
Hilarius watched her , hardly daring to hope . 
She held it out to him Now up and off to thy little maid . 
Hilarius took the sack , but only to lay it down again . 
Kneeling , he took both her little brown hands , and his tears fell fast as he kissed them . 
Ay , and shouldst thou need a home for her , bring her to us my old grandam is in the other waggon and she will care for her . 
Hilarius ran across the fields , full of sorrow for his sin , and yet greatly glad because of the wonderful goodness of God . 
When he got back his little maid sat alone by the fire . 
He hastened to make food ready , but the child was far spent and would scarcely eat . 
Then he went out to find the woman . 
He saw her standing in the doorway of an empty hovel , and she cried to him to keep back . 
My babe is dead , and I feel the sickness on me . 
I went to the houses seeking meal , even to Gammer Harden's and I must die . 
As for thee , thou shalt not come near me , but bide with the child so maybe God will spare the innocent . 
Hilarius besought her long that she would at least suffer him to bring her food , but she would not . 
Nay , I could not eat , the fever burns in my bones let me alone that I may die the sooner . 
Hilarius went back with a heavy heart , and lay that night with the little maid in his arms on the settle by the hearth . 
Despite his fear he slept heavily and late when he rose the sun was high and the child awake . 
He fed her , and , bidding her bide within , went out to gain tidings of the poor mother . 
He called , but no one answered and the door of the hovel in which she had taken shelter stood wide . 
She had lain down to die alone with God in the silence , that haply the living might escape and on her face was peace . 
Later , Hilarius laid green boughs tenderly over mother and babe , and covered them with earth , saying many prayers . 
Then he went back to his fatherless , motherless maid . 
The darkness came , and he waited wide eyed , praying for the dawn . 
When the new day broke and the east was pale with light he carried the child out that he might see her , for a dreadful fear possessed him . 
And it came to pass that when the light kissed her little white face she opened her eyes and smiled at Hilarius , and so smiling , died . 
The dancer , true to her promise , scanned the road as the waggon drew near the place of Hilarius' first and last theft he was standing by the wayside alone . 
The waggon passed on carrying him with it and the dancer looked but once on his face and asked no question . 
True , there had been dissension when Prior Stephen , summoned to Cluny by the Abbat , had perforce left the dominion to the Sub Prior . 
For lo ! the Sub Prior , a mild and most amiable man in his own estate , had proved harsh and overbearing in government . 
Since Brother Thomas died began Brother Paul . 
The Lord have mercy on his soul ! ejaculated Brother Anselm . 
Since Brother Thomas died , said Brother Paul again a little impatiently , though he crossed himself piously enough methinks the provisions have oft been scanty and far from tempting , Brother . 
Ay , and the wine , said Brother Anselm . 
Methinks our Cellarer draws the half of it from the Convent's well . 
They shook their heads sadly . 
The Prior , holy man , perceives nothing of these things . 
He is but young , he is but young sixty come Michaelmas sixty , and twenty two years Prior 'tis a long term , and Brother Anselm nodded his head . 
Ay , he is still young , and of sound teeth , said Brother Paul , whereas thou and I , Brother , are as babes needing pap meat . 
Brother Thomas God rest his soul ! was wont to give savoury mess easy of eating to the elder Brethren . 
Ay , he was a kind man with all his faults , said Brother Anselm , fingering his toothless gums . 
Still he hath forbidden the blood letting to us elder Brethren . 
Methinks there is little to let , since Brother Thomas died , said Brother Anselm ruefully . 
His thoughts were busy with Hilarius . 
Prior Stephen stood by the farmery door , and the scent of Mary's flowers came to him as it had come to Hilarius at the gate . 
He stretched out his hands with the strange pathetic gesture of a strong man helpless . 
The Office bell sounded sharp and clear across the still summer air calling to Vespers , and the Prior hasted to his place . 
Qui seminant in lachrymis in exultatione metent , chanted the deep voices of the monks , and Prior Stephen's voice trembled as he joined in the Psalmody . 
Euntes ibant et flebant mittentes semina sua . 
Venientes autem venient cum exultatione portantes manipulos suos . 
He had sown in tears , ay , and was weary of the sowing but the harvesting was not yet . 
It happened on this wise . 
He was sitting by his window after the noon repast , musing , as he was wont , on his dear son . 
The song of the bees busy in the herb garden was very pleasant to his ear , the warm , still air overcame him , and he slept . 
Suddenly he heard a voice calling a voice he knew in every fibre of his being and yet could set no name to , for it was the voice of God . 
He arose in haste and went out into the garth , and lo ! under the lilies Hilarius lay sleeping . 
The Prior stood fast in great wonder , his heart leaping for joy yet he could not cross the little piece of grass that lay between the cloister and the farmery door . 
He strove to cry , but his voice died on his lips , and his feet were as lead . 
The woman stayed when she came to the sleeping lad , and stooped to arouse him , but he slept on . 
She called him , and her voice was as the calling of the summer sea on a shelving beach but Hilarius gave no heed . 
Of a sudden Prior Stephen was as one set free . 
He strode to the woman's side there was but one lily left . 
Her russet eyes flashed under threatening brows , her teeth held fast the curling upper lip . 
Great , alack ! was her fame men crept to her knee like spaniels craving favour . 
Great was her wealth a golden piece for every ruddy strand that hung a shimmering mantle to her knee . 
Her beauty nay , men had slain themselves gladly to escape the torment of her look . 
She stood in the curtained doorway , a heavy purple hanging at her back and the man who awaited her paled as he saw her vengeful face . 
He drew himself up to the full of his slender height , and bowed . 
She gave no heed , but swept on , and faced him in the sunny silence . 
Across the pause the Angelus sounded from a church hard by Hilarius crossed himself devoutly and the stillness fled before a woman's scornful laugh . 
She thrust her head forward , and looked at him wondering there was a stain where her teeth had been busy . 
'It is nay , she repeated after him , and her eyes mocked him . 
May a poor Princess ask the Signor's reason ? Hilarius pointed past her to the fallen lilies . 
Men , said I ? Nay , thou art too much a cur to make fit sport for men rather my maids shall wield the rod and lace thy shoulders . 
There was silence a while . 
Then the Princess spoke , and her voice cut Hilarius like the sting of a lash Bring me yon flowers . 
Set them at my feet . 
He bent his knee and did so , wondering . 
A moment , and she trod them under their dying fragrance filled the air , as their living breath had flooded the senses of the blind eyed lad at the Monastery gate . 
One by one she set her heel upon the blossoms , and the marble was yellow with stolen gold . 
Hilarius held his breath it was as if she did to death some living thing , and yet he dared not bid her stay her insolent feet . 
It was done and she looked at him under questioning brows . 
Surely 'tis churlish to gainsay ! Her voice was suddenly sweet . 
Stooping , she gathered to her the destruction she had wrought , fingering the fallen petals tenderly , with a little sigh . 
She glanced up at Hilarius through her lashes' net . 
Art thou still minded to set these poor pale flowers against the roses in love's garden ? For I love thee , she added , and then suddenly she was still . 
He desired this woman as he had never before desired aught in all the world , and he knew , to his shame , that she was his for the asking . 
The blood thudded and rang in his veins he feasted his eyes on the curve of her neck and the radiance of her sun swept hair . 
He stretched out his hands , but ere he could speak she raised a white , terrified face , and glanced over her shoulder . 
Who touched me ? she gasped , her voice shrill with fear , who touched me ? And she sprang to her feet . 
There was no one the two shared a common pallor as they stared into each other's eyes across the dying lilies . 
Hilarius shrank back and covered his face with his hands . 
Clear and distinct he heard the Prior's voice A light woman a light woman . 
Then the Princess said hoarsely , Go , go and without word or look Hilarius went . 
The Prior rose from his knees comforted . 
He had wrestled with the devil for his son's soul , and knew that he had prevailed . 
CHAPTER III OPEN EYES AT THE GATE ANOTHER year wrote its record on forest and field . 
The weeks passed summer sped to autumn , the ripe corn bowed to the sickle . 
Now the porter was stout , short of breath , and of a hasty spirit and the Prior knew something was amiss by reason of his hurried gait and wrathful countenance . 
Domine , he gasped , Domine , there is a ragged man at the gate , a vagabond by his own showing , and he craves speech of thee . 
This my son was dead and is alive again , sang his heart . 
The porter , afraid , hasted after him with the keys , and had scarce time to do his office ere the sunburnt vagabond was clasped in the Prior's arms . 
It was a harvesting indeed . 
That night Hilarius went across to the Prior's house to tell the tale of his journeyings . 
And then , my son ? said the Prior . 
He knew thee , my Father , and bade his people supply my needs . 
Ay , he knows me , said the Prior briefly . 
Then one bade me go to Florence an I would be a limner therefore I hasted thither , and gave my last coin for bread as I entered the city . 
The Prior's brows contracted the lad had seen some schooling . 
Day by day I strove to gain enough to buy colours , but could not , for the Lord sent me ever a neighbour poorer than myself . 
What next , dear lad ? My Father , the Lord Himself sent a messenger to me . 
And many times Satan desired my soul nay , once I was in peril of hell fire , but the Lord was with me , and plucked my feet out of the pit . 
But of that I will speak anon , at my shriving , as is meet . 
The Prior remembered his dream , but he said no word , and Hilarius took up his tale . 
Then one day my master cried there was an end to teaching nevertheless he would have me bide with him in honour for the work . 
The Prior looked up a little anxiously , and Hilarius smiled at the question in his face . 
The robbers brought me forth to serve them , and by God's mercy handled me kindly , though they thought little of bloodshedding . 
Then one of them was troubled in his spirit , and minded to forsake this evil manner of life . 
Therefore one night he fled , carrying me with him , when the others had gone forth and we made good our way to Mantua . 
There Pietro , for so was the robber called , left me that he might give himself to the service of God and men , inasmuch as he had formerly abused them . 
But it came to pass that even the people marvelled at his joyful endurance and indeed 'twas more like a scourging of one of the blessed martyrs than of a poor sinful robber . 
After this the Brothers of the Poor took him , for such was his desire and so I bade him farewell , and craved his blessing . 
The Lord fulfil all his mind ! said the Prior with clasped hands . 
Thence I have come hither afoot begging my bread . 
Next morning , being shriven , Hilarius ate the bread and drank the wine of the wayfaring man , his heart merry for the joy of his home coming . 
When the Lady Mass was ended he knelt on in her Chapel . 
Great Light of Love , all praise and thanks be thine from thy poor son , sang his heart and then he prayed for his little maid . 
Then , by the Prior's command , Hilarius set himself to limn a great picture for the High Altar . 
It was a Crucifixion , and all his heart and all his love were in it . 
Gentle Brother Hilarius painted and loved , and was beloved of all his world . 
The Convent elected Hilarius to be Prior in his stead , which election the Abbat of Cluny confirmed with good grace . 
Now Prior Hilarius desired greatly to set a picture of Our Lady above the Altar in her Chapel . 
Long did he pray with ever increasing fervour and much fasting that this boon might be vouchsafed him for her glory and the Convent's greater good . 
Many other tales did the Brethren tell of Hilarius , but softly , for he would hear no word of his own deeds or the favours vouchsafed him . 
But when the Prior laid his hand between the man's troubled eyes sweet sleep came upon him , and his madness forsook him . 
Nevertheless , despite these things the Convent's peace began to be troubled . 
Men sought the Monastery for its famous name , caring but little for religion there were many young novices within its walls , and the strong hand of Prior Stephen was lacking . 
Hilarius was of gentler build he would speak ever in love , thinking no evil , whereas it is not given to all men to understand that tongue . 
So it came to pass that the younger Brethren waxed fat and kicked , and the elder Brethren murmured . 
CHAPTER V GABRIEL , MAKE THIS MAN TO UNDERSTAND THE VISION . 
ONE day the Novice master , Brother Adam , a most worthy man , came in sore trouble to the Prior and would resign his office . 
Surely never before did such an ill conditioned brood find shelter in a monastery ! he cried . 
They grow fat , idle , insolent , quarrelsome never at peace among themselves never a Pater or an Ave too many , or a task fulfilled , save for fear of stripes . 
I would that the time of blood letting were here that their high stomachs might be brought low . 
I am no longer young , my Father , and this burden tries me sorely . 
Prithee , let it be shifted to another and a stronger back . 
The Prior listened with many an inward mea culpa . 
'Tis a sad hearing , Brother Adam , but young blood is hard of mastering maybe this ill mood will pass . 
The lad Robert is surely ever gentle and decorous ? He hath a most beauteous voice . 
The Novice master threw up his hands . 
Nay , Father , nay , he hath indeed the voice of an angel , but methinks his body is surely the habitation of Satan . 
He will sing an it please him or when thou art by , my Father , but , an it please him not , he is silent ay , even under grievous stripes . 
The Precentor giveth him as negligent and ill conditioned and in choir , when he looketh most like to one of God's Saints , he is but plotting mischief for the day . 
The Prior heard him sadly . 
And Hubert ? he said . 
Hubert methinks hath a great love of colour and a fine hand with the brush . 
Brother Adam was almost speechless . 
And indeed the peace of the Brethren is much troubled , wherefore they complain bitterly . 
Young blood , young blood , but not of necessity evil , said the Prior . 
The next day in the Chapter the Prior spoke . 
It comes to pass oftentimes that men seeing a sign are made curious by it and then forgetting , find the clue thereto , it may be , long after . 
Last night a vision came to me as I slept . 
Blessed Benedict , our Father , stood at my side , and his face was troubled . 
'Arise , my son , he cried , 'arise , for the Lord is at hand and hath need of thee . 
And I , deeming it was of judgment that he spake , sprang up in shame and fear that the Master should find me sleeping . 
Then cried Blessed Benedict again 'If thou wilt serve the Lord , make haste , for He hath called thee these many times , and so saying passed from my sight . 
Brethren , I went forth as one bewildered , and made haste to the Church lest peradventure I should find Him but the lamps burnt dim and all was silent . 
Then I turned aside and went out into the night , and it was very dark , with no sound but the wind in the forest trees . 
I found myself by the pallet of my dear son Robert his face was wet with tears and as he lay I saw upon his shoulder the mark of many stripes . 
My Brethren , I can but tell the vision as it came to me . 
Ay , and I mind me how Prior Stephen , my Father , said that to be monk a man must learn before all things to hunger and to love . 
Men come over lightly to the Lord's work and lo ! pride and emulation , jealousy and discontent , spring up and thrive , and the end is shame and confusion . 
I speak as to my children it is in my heart that the Lord is at hand let us see that we love while there is yet time . 
Then he turned to the novices and stretched out his hands to where they stood amazed , and it may be ashamed not after this manner was Brother Adam wont to rebuke them . 
And ye , who are , as it were , the babes of our Order , give heed to your ways , neither bring unwilling hands to this service . 
Better far go forth , yea , even to death , than mock the Lord with froward feet and a heart that is full of vanity . 
Remember the sacrifice which Cain offered and the Lord rejected , for he gainsayed the voice of the Lord and disobeyed His Commandment wherefore the wrath of God fell upon him . 
CHAPTER VI THE HUNGER OF DICKON THE WOODMAN JUNE was at an end , and men cried aloud for rain . 
Dickon , the woodman , sat by the wayside gnawing a crust and a scrap of mouldy bacon . 
A neighbour had surely done it marked the hiding place which he had deemed so safe , and made off with the prize and i' faith 'twas easy carrying . 
There was but one piece , and Dickon minded how he had changed his petty hoard to gold scarce a month back at the fair . 
Dickon rose to his feet and shambled homewards he was ragged , ill fed , unkempt . 
The day's work was done , and on the village green he found men and women , for the most part as ill clad as himself , standing about in groups gossiping . 
A little man , keen eyed and restless , holding a lean and sorry horse by the bridle , was talking eagerly . 
Nay , 'tis true eno' , and three crows saw I this very day on the churchyard wall it bodes ill to some of us . 
Well , well , said the innkeeper , have it thine own way . 
Methinks the ill hath outrun the omen , for there will be naught for man or beast shortly but fine pickings for thy three crows . 
The little man scowled at him Dickon came up . 
What's to do ? he said curtly . 
Better a corpse light than six open mouths , and naught to fill them , said Dickon surlily . 
Whither away , Robin ? 'Tis not far this beast will travel . 
Right thou art , but my master will turn an honest penny with the carcass , answered the little man give me my reckoning , friend John . 
I must needs haste if I would see the Forester's ere nightfall . 
He pulled out a few small coins and a gold piece . 
When Dickon saw it his eyes gleamed . 
Robin paid the reckoning and put the piece in his cheek . 
Hard earned money 'tis blood out of a stone to draw wages from my master . 
Better it should light in my belly than in a rogue's pocket . 
'Tis as well for me that John o' th' Swift foot swings at the cross roads . 
Godden , my masters ! And leading his weary beast , he took the road that skirted the forest . 
The moon was at full , and he had yet a good stretch of lonely way before him , when the horse stumbled and fell and would not rise . 
A murrain on the beast ! muttered Robin angrily , tugging in vain at the creature on whom death had taken pity . 
I must e'en leave him by the wayside and tell Richard what hath befallen . 
He stooped to loose the halter , and as he bent to his task a man slipped from the shadow of the hedge into the quiet moonlight . 
There was a thud , a dull cry , and Robin fell prone across the horse's neck a pace beyond him in the moonlight shone the gleam of gold . 
Next day Dickon's child died , ay , and the other five followed with scant time between the buryings . 
Another had fathered them and filled the gaping mouths but men shuddered at his care , for it was the Black Death that they had deemed far from them . 
Pale and woebegone they clustered on the green . 
News had come of Robin he was dead when they found him but no man gave heed . 
Death was in the air , death held them safe in walls they might not scale . 
The heavens were brass , food failed for man and beast , God and man alike had forsaken them . 
The forest lay one side , the river , now but a shallow sluggish stream , lay the other 'twas a cleft stick and the springe tightened . 
No evil had as yet befallen Dickon . 
He stood with the rest and murmured , cursing . 
All at once he made for the ale house . 
Fools that we are to stand like helpless brats when there is liquor enough and to spare in yon cellars . 
He who is minded to go dry throat to Heaven had best make haste for me I will e'en swill a bucket to the devil's health , and so to hell . 
Half a dozen men followed him , pushing aside mine host who strove to bar the door . 
Some of the women fell on their knees and clamoured in half delirious prayer the rest slunk dismayed to their pestilent homes . 
The Prior summoned the whole Convent , according to the ruling of Blessed Benedict when the matter is a grave one , and told the tidings . 
Then he went on to give reason for their assembling . 
And I deem that , inasmuch as Charity is greater than Faith or Hope , so it is greater than obedience also . 
When he had made an end , there was silence in the Chapter . 
Break cloister , the Prior himself urging them thereto ? The Convent might scarce credit its ears . 
Prior Hilarius watched his children with a tender smile on his white face , and a prayer on his lips that love might have its triumph . 
Five monks stood up , among them the Sub Prior , and seven novices sprang also to their feet . 
Nay , Brother Walter , said Hilarius , turning to the Sub Prior , this flock must have its shepherd also thy place is here . 
The Sub Prior ventured on a remonstrance . 
Good Father , it is not fitting that thou should'st go on such an errand send me in thy stead , for my life is a small thing as compared with thine . 
Moreover these novices , 'tis but the other day the Master gave them as lazy and ill conditioned , and The Prior held up his hand . 
Dear Brother , I thank thee for thy love and care for me but my call has come . 
Then all at once the Psalm broke , and Brother Simon , who was leading , stayed suddenly . 
Hilarius made haste to kneel beside him , and lo ! sudden remembrance lighted the fast glazing eyes , but his own answered not . 
My son , my son , said the Prior , and his voice was very pitiful , thou art indeed in evil case let me shrive thee ere it be too late . 
He motioned the others to stand back , and raising the heavy head upon his shoulder , bent close to catch the whisper of the parched lips . 
At first no sound came , and then a hoarse word reached him . 
The man strove in vain to speak . 
At last he said quite clearly I hunger , and so saying died . 
The Prior was greatly moved , and for a while he knelt in prayer , while the Brethren , amazed , waited his pleasure . 
Then he rose , and lo ! before him lay the open glade where his schooling had begun , and he had seen a flower incarnate dance in the wind . 
He bade them lift the dead , and lay him in the hollow of the glade under fallen branches until they could return and give him burial . 
Hilarius made straight for the ale house . 
As he crossed the green , the door opened and Dickon stumbled blindly down the steps . 
At sight of a monk he cried out , and suddenly sobered , dropped on his knees , while the topers and roysterers staring from the open doorway fell into silence . 
Hilarius pushed back his cowl and stood bareheaded in the scorching sun of that windless day it came to his mind that he was very weary . 
Hear , O my children , the Lord hath sent me to succour you , lest ye go down quick into the pit . 
Return , every one of you , for the arms of His love are still stretched wide upon the Rood , and the very hairs of your head are numbered . 
One by one the men , sobered by the shock of great surprise , confessed and were shriven under the summer sun only the man Dickon was not among them . 
Then the Prior bade them get to work as he should direct and he set a watch that no man should flee the village and all obeyed him . 
Early and late the Prior toiled with the Brethren and his band of workers , nursing the sick , burying the dead , and destroying the pestilent dwellings . 
Brother Leo was the first to whom the call came he answered it like a soldier at his post . 
As the Prior rose from the pallet of his dead son , one bade him come quickly , for a dying man had need of him . 
'Esurientes implevit bonis , said the Prior , as he laid him down , blessing God . 
A second novice died , then a third , and yet another but there was no need to call further help from the Monastery , for the Plague was stayed . 
Never had cloistered monks spent such a strange season rarely such a blessed one . 
The Feast of the Transfiguration was nigh at hand , and the Prior was minded to return on that day to the waiting , anxious Convent , for his work was done . 
The holy day dawned without a cloud . 
A strong west wind bowed the pines in the forest , and they worshipped and sang for joy , because of the face of the Lord . 
The sun burnt bright in the great blue dome , and earth shone with pale reflection of his glory . 
The monks paced the cloister walks , and waited and watched to catch the signal from the lay brother posted without . 
At last the word came that voices were heard in the distance and monks and novices hastened two and two to the gate . 
On the wind was borne the sound of a chant . 
'Tis a dirge for those that are gone , said Brother Anselm and crossing themselves , the Brothers chanted out the sonorous response Et lux perpetua luceat eis . 
As they reached the open gate , the little band they waited for came slowly down the forest pathway . 
Four Brothers , only four and lo ! on their shoulders they bore a rude bier of pine branches . 
This was the gathering of Brother Hilarius . 
Sweet scented boughs for his last bed Mary's lilies aglow for tapers tall the censer of the forest swung by sun and wind and the glory of the face of the Lord . 
It was his heart , Brother Simon thought but the Sub Prior cried through his tears Nay , nay , it was God a hungered for His dear son . 
And the Convent made Hilarius a wondrous fair tomb of alabaster inlaid with gold , and carved him lying thereon with Mary's lilies across his breast . 
