Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
And yet there are places where Time seems to linger lovingly long after youth has departed , and to which he seems loath to bring the evil day . 
He was dressed in a suit of linen duck the day was warm a panama straw hat , and patent leather shoes . 
In appearance he was tall , dark , with straight , black , lustrous hair , and very clean cut , high bred features . 
One of the South Ca'lina bigbugs , I reckon probably in cotton , or turpentine . 
The gentleman from South Carolina , walking down the street , glanced about him with an eager look , in which curiosity and affection were mingled with a touch of bitterness . 
He saw little that was not familiar , or that he had not seen in his dreams a hundred times during the past ten years . 
There had been some changes , it is true , some melancholy changes , but scarcely anything by way of addition or improvement to counterbalance them . 
Here and there blackened and dismantled walls marked the place where handsome buildings once had stood , for Sherman's march to the sea had left its mark upon the town . 
The stores were mostly of brick , two stories high , joining one another after the manner of cities . 
Some of the names on the signs were familiar others , including a number of Jewish names , were quite unknown to him . 
Warwick was unable to perceive much change in the market house . 
Perhaps the surface of the red brick , long unpainted , had scaled off a little more here and there . 
There might have been a slight accretion of the moss and lichen on the shingled roof . 
But the tall tower , with its four faced clock , rose as majestically and uncompromisingly as though the land had never been subjugated . 
The lower story of the market house was open on all four of its sides to the public square . 
Warwick passed through one of the wide brick arches and traversed the building with a leisurely step . 
He did not speak to her , however , or give her any sign of recognition . 
He threw a glance toward a certain corner where steps led to the town hall above . 
On this stairway he had once seen a manacled free negro shot while being taken upstairs for examination under a criminal charge . 
Warwick recalled vividly how the shot had rung out . 
He could see again the livid look of terror on the victim's face , the gathering crowd , the resulting confusion . 
The murderer , he recalled , had been tried and sentenced to imprisonment for life , but was pardoned by a merciful governor after serving a year of his sentence . 
Leaving the market house , Warwick turned to the left , and kept on his course until he reached the next corner . 
He turned the knob , but the door was locked . 
Not at all impressed by the melancholy suggestiveness of his task , he was whistling a lively air with great gusto . 
Upon Warwick's entrance this effusion came to a sudden end , and the coffin maker assumed an air of professional gravity . 
Good mawnin' , suh , he said , lifting his cap politely . 
Good morning , answered Warwick . 
He's be'n kin' er feeble fer de las' few yeahs . 
Man dat is bawn er 'oman hath but a sho't time ter lib , an' is full er mis'ry . 
He cometh up an' is cut down lack as a flower . 
De days er his life is three sco' an' ten' an' de ole jedge is libbed mo' d'n dat , suh , by five yeahs , ter say de leas' . 
Death , quoted Warwick , with whose mood the undertaker's remarks were in tune , is the penalty that all must pay for the crime of living . 
Dat 's a fac' , suh , dat 's a fac' so dey mus' so dey mus' . 
An' den all de dead has ter be buried . 
An' we does ou' sheer of it , suh , we does ou' sheer . 
We conduc's de obs'quies er all de bes' w'ite folks er de town , suh . 
Warwick left the undertaker's shop and retraced his steps until he had passed the lawyer's office , toward which he threw an affectionate glance . 
Just before Warwick reached Liberty Point , a young woman came down Front Street from the direction of the market house . 
When their paths converged , Warwick kept on down Front Street behind her , it having been already his intention to walk in this direction . 
Warwick's first glance had revealed the fact that the young woman was strikingly handsome , with a stately beauty seldom encountered . 
The girl's figure , he perceived , was admirably proportioned she was evidently at the period when the angles of childhood were rounding into the promising curves of adolescence . 
He could see that she was tastefully , though not richly , dressed , and that she walked with an elastic step that revealed a light heart and the vigor of perfect health . 
Her face , of course , he could not analyze , since he had caught only the one brief but convincing glimpse of it . 
The young woman kept on down Front Street , Warwick maintaining his distance a few rods behind her . 
They passed a factory , a warehouse or two , and then , leaving the brick pavement , walked along on mother earth , under a leafy arcade of spreading oaks and elms . 
Their way led now through a residential portion of the town , which , as they advanced , gradually declined from staid respectability to poverty , open and unabashed . 
Their walk had continued not more than ten minutes when they crossed a creek by a wooden bridge and came to a row of mean houses standing flush with the street . 
At the door of one , an old black woman had stooped to lift a large basket , piled high with laundered clothes . 
You wuz alluz a good gal , and de Lawd love eve'ybody w'at he'p de po' ole nigger . 
You gwine ter hab good luck all yo' bawn days . 
I hope you're a true prophet , Aunt Zilphy , laughed the girl in response . 
The sound of her voice gave Warwick a thrill . 
It was soft and sweet and clear quite in harmony with her appearance . 
That it had a faint suggestiveness of the old woman's accent he hardly noticed , for the current Southern speech , including his own , was rarely without a touch of it . 
The corruption of the white people's speech was one element only one of the negro's unconscious revenge for his own debasement . 
The houses they passed now grew scattering , and the quarter of the town more neglected . 
Warwick felt himself wondering where the girl might be going in a neighborhood so uninviting . 
Once she threw a backward glance at Warwick , thus enabling him to catch a second glimpse of a singularly pretty face . 
A woman with such a figure , thought Warwick , ought to be able to face the world with the confidence of Phryne confronting her judges . 
By this time Warwick was conscious that something more than mere grace or beauty had attracted him with increasing force toward this young woman . 
There was still sufficient unexpectedness about the act , however , to give him a decided thrill of pleasure . 
It must be Rena , he murmured . 
The girl was moving along a sanded walk , toward a gray , unpainted house , with a steep roof , broken by dormer windows . 
The trace of timidity he had observed in her had given place to the more assured bearing of one who is upon his own ground . 
The garden walks were bordered by long rows of jonquils , pinks , and carnations , inclosing clumps of fragrant shrubs , lilies , and roses already in bloom . 
The girl stooped to pluck a rose , and as she bent over it , her profile was clearly outlined . 
Yes , said the young man to himself , it's Rena , sure enough . 
The house stood on a corner , around which the cedar hedge turned , continuing along the side of the garden until it reached the line of the front of the house . 
Warwick's walk led him within three feet of the side gate , which he felt an almost irresistible impulse to enter . 
Every detail of the house and garden was familiar a thousand cords of memory and affection drew him thither but a stronger counter motive prevailed . 
Both the men were busily engaged in shaping barrel staves , each wielding a sharp edged drawing knife on a piece of seasoned oak clasped tightly in a wooden vise . 
I jes' wonder who dat man is , an' w'at he 's doin' on dis street , observed the younger of the two , with a suspicious air . 
He had noticed the gentleman's involuntary pause and his interest in the opposite house , and had stopped work for a moment to watch the stranger as he went on down the street . 
Nev' min' 'bout dat man , said the elder one . 
You 'ten' ter yo' wuk an' finish dat bairl stave . 
You spen's enti'ely too much er yo' time stretchin' yo' neck atter other people . 
Look sha'p now , boy , er you'll git dat stave trim' too much . 
The younger man resumed his work , but still found time to throw a slanting glance out of the window . 
II AN EVENING VISIT Toward evening of the same day , Warwick took his way down Front Street in the gathering dusk . 
By the time night had spread its mantle over the earth , he had reached the gate by which he had seen the girl of his morning walk enter the cedar bordered garden . 
He stopped at the gate and glanced toward the house , which seemed dark and silent and deserted . 
It's more than likely , he thought , that they are in the kitchen . 
I reckon I'd better try the back door . 
They are there , he muttered with a sigh of relief , for he had feared they might be away . 
I suspect I'll have to go to the front door , after all . 
No one can see me through the trees . 
He retraced his steps to the front gate , which he essayed to open . 
There was apparently some defect in the latch , for it refused to work . 
There was no response to his rap . 
He put his ear to the door and heard voices within , and the muffled sound of footsteps . 
After a moment he rapped again , a little louder than before . 
There was an instant cessation of the sounds within . 
He rapped a third time , to satisfy any lingering doubt in the minds of those who he felt sure were listening in some trepidation . 
A moment later a ray of light streamed through the keyhole . 
Who's there ? a woman's voice inquired somewhat sharply . 
A gentleman , answered Warwick , not holding it yet time to reveal himself . 
Does Mis' Molly Walden live here ? Yes , was the guarded answer . 
What's yo'r business ? I have a message to you from your son John . 
A key clicked in the lock . 
You 've got a message from my son , you say ? she asked with tremulous agitation . 
Is he sick , or in trouble ? No. He's well and doing well , and sends his love to you , and hopes you've not forgotten him . 
Fergot him ? No , God knows I ain't fergot him ! But come in , sir , an' tell me somethin' mo' about him . 
Warwick went in , and as the woman closed the door after him , he threw a glance round the room . 
In the middle of the room an octagonal centre table with a single leg , terminating in three sprawling feet , held a collection of curiously shaped sea shells . 
There was a great haircloth sofa , somewhat the worse for wear , and a well filled bookcase . 
The screen standing before the fireplace was covered with Confederate bank notes of various denominations and designs , in which the heads of Jefferson Davis and other Confederate leaders were conspicuous . 
The woman showed her visitor to a seat . 
She then sat down facing him and looked at him closely . 
When did you last see my son ? she asked . 
I've never met your son , he replied . 
Then the message comes through you from somebody else ? No , directly from your son . 
She scanned his face with a puzzled look . 
An electric spark of sympathy flashed between them . 
They rose as if moved by one impulse , and were clasped in each other's arms . 
John , my John ! It IS John ! Mother my dear old mother ! I didn't think , she sobbed , that I'd ever see you again . 
He smoothed her hair and kissed her . 
And are you glad to see me , mother ? Am I glad to see you ? It's like the dead comin' to life . 
I thought I'd lost you forever , John , my son , my darlin' boy ! she answered , hugging him strenuously . 
I couldn't live without seeing you , mother , he said . 
He meant it , too , or thought he did , although he had not seen her for ten years . 
That's mighty nice of you , mother . 
You could have done no more if you had loved them for themselves . 
I've be'n so glad to see you that I'd fergot about her , answered the mother . 
Yes , mamma , she answered , coming forward . 
Rena , child , here's yo'r brother John , who's come back to see us . 
As she came forward , Warwick rose , put his arm around her waist , drew her toward him , and kissed her affectionately , to her evident embarrassment . 
She felt a very pronounced respect for this tall gentleman who held her blushing face between his hands and looked steadily into her eyes . 
You're the little sister I used to read stories to , and whom I promised to come and see some day . 
Do you remember how you cried when I went away ? It seems but yesterday , she answered . 
I've still got the dime you gave me . 
He kissed her again , and then drew her down beside him on the sofa , where he sat enthroned between the two loving and excited women . 
No king could have received more sincere or delighted homage . 
He was a man , come into a household of women , a man of whom they were proud , and to whom they looked up with fond reverence . 
You're a very pretty girl , said Warwick , regarding his sister thoughtfully . 
I followed you down Front Street this morning , and scarcely took my eyes off you all the way and yet I didn't know you , and scarcely saw your face . 
You improve on acquaintance to night , I find you handsomer still . 
Now , John , said his mother , expostulating mildly , you'll spile her , if you don't min' . 
The girl was beaming with gratified vanity . 
No , he won't , mamma , she asserted , for he's flattering me . 
Her hair was long and smooth and glossy , with a wave like the ripple of a summer breeze upon the surface of still water . 
It was the girl's great pride , and had been sedulously cared for . 
What lovely hair ! It has just the wave that yours lacks , mother . 
Yes , was the regretful reply , I've never be'n able to git that wave out . 
But her hair's be'n took good care of , an' there ain't nary gal in town that's got any finer . 
Don't worry about the wave , mother . 
It's just the fashionable ripple , and becomes her immensely . 
I think my little Albert favors his Aunt Rena somewhat . 
Your little Albert ! they cried . 
You've got a child ? Oh , yes , he replied calmly , a very fine baby boy . 
They began to purr in proud contentment at this information , and made minute inquiries about the age and weight and eyes and nose and other important details of this precious infant . 
They inquired more coldly about the child's mother , of whom they spoke with greater warmth when they learned that she was dead . 
His story had for the women the charm of an escape from captivity , with all the thrill of a pirate's tale . 
With the whole world before him , he had remained in the South , the land of his fathers , where , he conceived , he had an inalienable birthright . 
Warwick's wife was of good family , and in a more settled condition of society it would not have been easy for a young man of no visible antecedents to win her hand . 
A year or two later , he had taken the oath of allegiance , and had been admitted to the South Carolina bar . 
I suppose , he concluded , that I have got along at the bar , as elsewhere , owing to the lack of better men . 
People had to have lawyers , and they gave me their business in preference to the carpet baggers . 
Fortune , you know , favors the available man . 
His mother drank in with parted lips and glistening eyes the story of his adventures and the record of his successes . 
As Rena listened , the narrow walls that hemmed her in seemed to draw closer and closer , as though they must crush her . 
Her brother watched her keenly . 
An' I s'pose you're happy , John ? asked his mother . 
Well , mother , happiness is a relative term , and depends , I imagine , upon how nearly we think we get what we think we want . 
I have had my chance and haven't thrown it away , and I suppose I ought to be happy . 
But then , I have lost my wife , whom I loved very dearly , and who loved me just as much , and I'm troubled about my child . 
Is there anything the matter with him ? No , not exactly . 
He's well enough , as babies go , and has a good enough nurse , as nurses go . 
But the nurse is ignorant , and not always careful . 
A child needs some woman of its own blood to love it and look after it intelligently . 
Mis' Molly's eyes were filled with tearful yearning . 
She would have given all the world to warm her son's child upon her bosom but she knew this could not be . 
Did your wife leave any kin ? she asked with an effort . 
No near kin she was an only child . 
You'll be gettin' married again , suggested his mother . 
No , he replied I think not . 
Warwick was still reading his sister's face , and saw the spark of hope that gleamed in her expressive eye . 
The mother looked from son to daughter with a dawning apprehension and a sudden pallor . 
When she saw the yearning in Rena's eyes , she threw herself at her son's feet . 
There , there , mamma ! Never mind ! I won't leave you , mamma dear old mamma ! Your Rena'll stay with you always , and never , never leave you . 
John smoothed his mother's hair with a comforting touch , patted her withered cheek soothingly , lifted her tenderly to her place by his side , and put his arm about her . 
You love your children , mother ? They're all I've got , she sobbed , an' they cos' me all I had . 
When the las' one's gone , I'll want to go too , for I'll be all alone in the world . 
Don't take Rena , John for if you do , I'll never see her again , an' I can't bear to think of it . 
How would you like to lose yo'r one child ? Well , well , mother , we'll say no more about it . 
And now tell me all about yourself , and about the neighbors , and how you got through the war , and who's dead and who's married and everything . 
The change of subject restored in some degree Mis' Molly's equanimity , and with returning calmness came a sense of other responsibilities . 
Good gracious , Rena ! she exclaimed . 
Warwick smiled at the mention of these homely dainties . 
I thought of your sweet potato pone at the hotel to day , when I was at dinner , and wondered if you'd have some in the house . 
There was never any like yours and I've forgotten the taste of persimmon beer entirely . 
Rena left the room to carry out her hospitable commission . 
Warwick , taking advantage of her absence , returned after a while to the former subject . 
Of course , mother , he said calmly , I wouldn't think of taking Rena away against your wishes . 
A mother's claim upon her child is a high and holy one . 
Of course she will have no chance here , where our story is known . 
The war has wrought great changes , has put the bottom rail on top , and all that but it hasn't wiped THAT out . 
Nothing but death can remove that stain , if it does not follow us even beyond the grave . 
Yes , sighed the mother , she's got good sense . 
She ain't as quick as you was , an' don't read as many books , but she's keerful an' painstakin' , an' always tries to do what's right . 
She's be'n thinkin' about goin' away somewhere an' tryin' to git a school to teach , er somethin' , sence the Yankees have started 'em everywhere for po' white folks an' niggers too . 
But I don't like fer her to go too fur . 
With such beauty and brains , continued Warwick , she could leave this town and make a place for herself . 
The place is already made . 
She has only to step into my carriage after perhaps a little preparation and ride up the hill which I have had to climb so painfully . 
It would be a great pleasure to me to see her at the top . 
But of course it is impossible a mere idle dream . 
YOUR claim comes first her duty chains her here . 
It's not to be thought of for a moment . 
The tortured mother could endure no more . 
The one thing she desired above all others was her daughter's happiness . 
Her own life had not been governed by the highest standards , but about her love for her beautiful daughter there was no taint of selfishness . 
The life her son had described had been to her always the ideal but unattainable life . 
Circumstances , some beyond her control , and others for which she was herself in a measure responsible , had put it forever and inconceivably beyond her reach . 
It had been conquered by her son . 
It beckoned to her daughter . 
The comparison of this free and noble life with the sordid existence of those around her broke down the last barrier of opposition . 
You'll have your friends and relatives , and the knowledge that your children are happy . 
I'll let you hear from us often , and no doubt you can see Rena now and then . 
But you must let her go , mother , it would be a sin against her to refuse . 
She may go , replied the mother brokenly . 
I'll not stand in her way I've got sins enough to answer for already . 
He had stirred her feelings to unwonted depths , and his sympathy went out to her . 
If she had sinned , she had been more sinned against than sinning , and it was not his part to judge her . 
He had yielded to a sentimental weakness in deciding upon this trip to Patesville . 
No one would have acknowledged sooner than he the folly of this visit . 
But during all these years of absence he had cherished a tender feeling for his mother , and now again found himself in her house , amid the familiar surroundings of his childhood . 
His visit had brought joy to his mother's heart , and was now to bring its shrouded companion , sorrow . 
His mother had lived her life , for good or ill . 
A wider door was open to his sister her mother must not bar the entrance . 
She may go , the mother repeated sadly , drying her tears . 
I'll give her up for her good . 
The table 's ready , mamma , said Rena , coming to the door . 
The lunch was spread in the kitchen , a large unplastered room at the rear , with a wide fireplace at one end . 
From Bulwer's novel , he had read the story of Warwick the Kingmaker , and upon leaving home had chosen it for his own . 
He was a new man , but he had the blood of an old race , and he would select for his own one of its worthy names . 
Overhead loomed the same smoky beams , decorated with what might have been , from all appearances , the same bunches of dried herbs , the same strings of onions and red peppers . 
The kitchen was different from the stately dining room of the old colonial mansion where he now lived but it was homelike , and it was familiar . 
He who would climb the heights of life must leave even the pleasantest valleys behind . 
Rena , asked her mother , how'd you like to go an' pay yo'r brother John a visit ? I guess I might spare you for a little while . 
The girl's eyes lighted up . 
She would not have gone if her mother had wished her to stay , but she would always have regarded this as the lost opportunity of her life . 
Are you sure you don't care , mamma ? she asked , hoping and yet doubting . 
Oh , I'll manage to git along somehow or other . 
You can go an' stay till you git homesick , an' then John'll let you come back home . 
But Mis' Molly believed that she would never come back , except , like her brother , under cover of the night . 
She must lose her daughter as well as her son , and this should be the penance for her sin . 
The next boat by which Warwick could take his sister away left early in the morning of the next day but one . 
III THE OLD JUDGE On the morning following the visit to his mother , Warwick visited the old judge's office . 
The judge was not in , but the door stood open , and Warwick entered to await his return . 
There had been fewer changes in the office , where he had spent many , many hours , than in the town itself . 
The dust was a little thicker , the papers in the pigeon holes of the walnut desk were a little yellower , the cobwebs in the corners a little more aggressive . 
The flies droned as drowsily and the murmur of the brook below was just as audible . 
Warwick stood at the rear window and looked out over a familiar view . 
His pamphlet on Flora Macdonald , printed for private circulation , was highly prized by those of his friends who were fortunate enough to obtain a copy . 
To the left of the window a placid mill pond spread its wide expanse , and to the right the creek disappeared under a canopy of overhanging trees . 
A footstep sounded in the doorway , and Warwick , turning , faced the old judge . 
Time had left greater marks upon the lawyer than upon his office . 
Good morning , Judge Straight , said the young man , removing his hat with the graceful Southern deference of the young for the old . 
Good morning , sir , replied the judge with equal courtesy . 
You don't remember me , I imagine , suggested Warwick . 
Your face seems familiar , returned the judge cautiously , but I cannot for the moment recall your name . 
I shall be glad to have you refresh my memory . 
I was John Walden , sir , when you knew me . 
The judge's face still gave no answering light of recognition . 
Your old office boy , continued the younger man . 
Ah , indeed , so you were ! rejoined the judge warmly , extending his hand with great cordiality , and inspecting Warwick more closely through his spectacles . 
Let me see you went away a few years before the war , wasn't it ? Yes , sir , to South Carolina . 
Yes , yes , I remember now ! I had been thinking it was to the North . 
So many things have happened since then , that it taxes an old man's memory to keep track of them all . 
And you married into a good family ? he asked . 
And have children ? One . 
And you are visiting your mother ? Not exactly . 
I have seen her , but I am stopping at a hotel . 
H'm ! Are you staying long ? I leave to morrow . 
I wouldn't stay too long . 
The people of a small town are inquisitive about strangers , and some of them have long memories . 
I remember we went over the law , which was in your favor but custom is stronger than law in these matters custom IS law . 
It was a great pity that your father did not make a will . 
Well , my boy , I wish you continued good luck I imagined you would make your way . 
Warwick went away , and the old judge sat for a moment absorbed in reflection . 
Right and wrong , he mused , must be eternal verities , but our standards for measuring them vary with our latitude and our epoch . 
We make our customs lightly once made , like our sins , they grip us in bands of steel we become the creatures of our creations . 
By one standard my old office boy should never have been born . 
Yet he is a son of Adam , and came into existence in the way ordained by God from the beginning of the world . 
In equity he would seem to be entitled to his chance in life it might have been wiser , though , for him to seek it farther afield than South Carolina . 
It was too near home , even though the laws were with him . 
IV DOWN THE RIVER Neither mother nor daughter slept a great deal during the night of Warwick's first visit . 
Mis' Molly anointed her sacrifice with tears and cried herself to sleep . 
Rena's emotions were more conflicting she was sorry to leave her mother , but glad to go with her brother . 
The next day was devoted to preparations for the journey . 
Rena's slender wardrobe was made ready and packed in a large valise . 
Good evenin' , ma'm , responded the man briefly , and not relaxing at all the energy with which he was trimming a barrel stave . 
Of co'se I'll pay you fer yo'r trouble . 
Thank y' , ma'm , he replied . 
He knew that she would not pay him , for the simple reason that he would not accept pay for such a service . 
Is she gwine fur ? he asked , with a sorrowful look , which he could not entirely disguise . 
As fur as Wilmin'ton an' beyon' . 
She'll be visitin' her brother John , who lives in another State , an' wants her to come an' see him . 
Yas 'm , I'll come . 
I won' need de kyart I'll tote de bag . 
'Bout w'at time shill I come over ? Well , 'long 'bout seven o'clock or half pas' . 
She's goin' on the Old North State , an' it leaves at eight . 
Frank stood looking after Mis' Molly as she picked her way across the street , until he was recalled to his duty by a sharp word from his father . 
'Ten' ter yo' wuk , boy , 'ten' ter yo' wuk . 
You 're wastin' yo' time wastin' yo' time ! Yes , he was wasting his time . 
The beautiful young girl across the street could never be anything to him . 
But he had saved her life once , and had dreamed that he might render her again some signal service that might win her friendship , and convince her of his humble devotion . 
For Frank was not proud . 
Frank went over in the morning a little ahead of the appointed time , and waited on the back piazza until his services were required . 
She had been asking herself the same question . 
All sorts of vague dreams had floated through her mind during the last few hours , as to what the future might bring forth . 
But she detected the anxious note in Frank's voice , and had no wish to give this faithful friend of the family unnecessary pain . 
Oh , no , Frank , I reckon not . 
I'm supposed to be just going on a short visit . 
My brother has lost his wife , and wishes me to come and stay with him awhile , and look after his little boy . 
You would n' never hafter do dat , Miss Rena , returned Frank , with a disconsolate smile . 
Thank you , Frank , I believe you would , said the girl kindly . 
You're a true friend , Frank , and I'll not forget you while I'm gone . 
Her daughter was going to live in a fine house , and marry a rich man , and ride in her carriage . 
Of course a negro would drive the carriage , but that was different from riding with one in a cart . 
When it was time to go , Mis' Molly and Rena set out on foot for the river , which was only a short distance away . 
Frank followed with the valise . 
There was no gathering of friends to see Rena off , as might have been the case under different circumstances . 
Mis' Molly and Rena remained on the bank until the steamer announced , with a raucous whistle , its readiness to depart . 
Warwick was seen for a moment on the upper deck , from which he greeted them with a smile and a slight nod . 
He had bidden his mother an affectionate farewell the evening before . 
Rena gave her hand to Frank . 
Good by , Frank , she said , with a kind smile I hope you and mamma will be good friends while I'm gone . 
The whistle blew a second warning blast , and the deck hands prepared to draw in the gang plank . 
Rena flew into her mother's arms , and then , breaking away , hurried on board and retired to her state room , from which she did not emerge during the journey . 
W'ite folks has deir troubles jes' ez well ez black folks , an' sometimes feels 'em mo' , 'cause dey ain't ez use' ter 'em . 
Mis' Molly went back in sadness to the lonely house behind the cedars , henceforth to be peopled for her with only the memory of those she had loved . 
She had paid with her heart's blood another installment on the Shylock's bond exacted by society for her own happiness of the past and her children's prospects for the future . 
The journey down the sluggish river to the seaboard in the flat bottomed , stern wheel steamer lasted all day and most of the night . 
During the first half day , the boat grounded now and then upon a sand bank , and the half naked negro deck hands toiled with ropes and poles to release it . 
During the day , Warwick had taken his meals in the dining room , with the captain and the other cabin passengers . 
It was learned that he was a South Carolina lawyer , and not a carpet bagger . 
Such credentials were unimpeachable , and the passengers found him a very agreeable traveling companion . 
His attitude , in fact , piqued the curiosity of one or two of the passengers . 
Did your people lose any niggers ? asked one of them . 
My father owned a hundred , he replied grandly . 
Their respect for his views was doubled . 
It is easy to moralize about the misfortunes of others , and to find good in the evil that they suffer only a true philosopher could speak thus lightly of his own losses . 
When the steamer tied up at the wharf at Wilmington , in the early morning , the young lawyer and a veiled lady passenger drove in the same carriage to a hotel . 
After they had breakfasted in a private room , Warwick explained to his sister the plan he had formed for her future . 
Henceforth she must be known as Miss Warwick , dropping the old name with the old life . 
He would place her for a year in a boarding school at Charleston , after which she would take her place as the mistress of his house . 
Having imparted this information , he took his sister for a drive through the town . 
The business portion of the town had an ancient and fishlike smell , and most of the trade seemed to be in cotton and naval stores and products of the sea . 
The wharves were piled high with cotton bales , and there were acres of barrels of resin and pitch and tar and spirits of turpentine . 
The travelers left together on an early afternoon train . 
Some few weeks later , Mis' Molly called upon old Judge Straight with reference to the taxes on her property . 
Your son came in to see me the other day , he remarked . 
He seems to have got along . 
Oh , yes , judge , he's done fine , John has an' he's took his sister away with him . 
Ah ! exclaimed the judge . 
Then after a pause he added , I hope she may do as well . 
Thank you , sir , she said , with a curtsy , as she rose to go . 
We've always knowed that you were our friend and wished us well . 
The judge looked after her as she walked away . 
Her bearing had a touch of timidity , a shade of affectation , and yet a certain pathetic dignity . 
It is a pity , he murmured , with a sigh , that men cannot select their mothers . 
V THE TOURNAMENT The annual tournament of the Clarence Social Club was about to begin . 
A quarter of a mile of the race track , to right and left of the judges' stand , had been laid off for the lists . 
Opposite the grand stand , which occupied a considerable part of this distance , a dozen uprights had been erected at measured intervals . 
Projecting several feet over the track from each of these uprights was an iron crossbar , from which an iron hook depended . 
Between the uprights stout posts were planted , of such a height that their tops could be easily reached by a swinging sword cut from a mounted rider passing upon the track . 
The influence of Walter Scott was strong upon the old South . 
The South before the war was essentially feudal , and Scott's novels of chivalry appealed forcefully to the feudal heart . 
During the month preceding the Clarence tournament , the local bookseller had closed out his entire stock of Ivanhoe , consisting of five copies , and had taken orders for seven copies more . 
The knights , masquerading in fanciful costumes , in which bright colored garments , gilt paper , and cardboard took the place of knightly harness , were mounted on spirited horses . 
Most of them were gathered at one end of the lists , while others practiced their steeds upon the unoccupied portion of the race track . 
The judges entered the grand stand , and one of them , after looking at his watch , gave a signal . 
Immediately a herald , wearing a bright yellow sash , blew a loud blast upon a bugle , and , big with the importance of his office , galloped wildly down the lists . 
It is somewhat different from Ashby de la Zouch . 
It is the renaissance of chivalry , Mrs. Newberry , replied the young lawyer , and , like any other renaissance , it must adapt itself to new times and circumstances . 
It is a South Carolina renaissance which has points of advantage over the tournaments of the olden time . 
I'm afraid , Mr. Warwick , said the lady , that you're the least bit heretical about our chivalry or else you're a little too deep for me . 
The last would be impossible , Mrs. Newberry and I'm sure our chivalry has proved its valor on many a hard fought field . 
If our knights do not run the physical risks of Ashby de la Zouch , they have all the mental stimulus . 
Wounded vanity will take the place of wounded limbs , and there will be broken hopes in lieu of broken heads . 
The horsemen formed three abreast , and rode down the lists in orderly array . 
One horse pranced proudly , another caracoled with grace . 
One rider fidgeted nervously , another trembled and looked the other way . 
The ladies in the grand stand waved their handkerchiefs vigorously , and the men clapped their hands . 
The beautiful girl seated by Warwick's side accidentally let a little square of white lace trimmed linen slip from her hand . 
It fluttered lightly over the railing , and , buoyed up by the air , settled slowly toward the lists . 
A young rider in the approaching rear rank saw the handkerchief fall , and darting swiftly forward , caught it on the point of his lance ere it touched the ground . 
He drew up his horse and made a movement as though to extend the handkerchief toward the lady , who was blushing profusely at the attention she had attracted by her carelessness . 
The young man with the bandage round his head , on the benches across the lists , had forced his way to the front row and was leaning against the railing . 
His restless eye was attracted by the falling handkerchief , and his face , hitherto anxious , suddenly lit up with animation . 
Yas , suh , yas , suh , it's her ! he muttered softly . 
It's Miss Rena , sho's you bawn . 
She looked lack a' angel befo' , but now , up dere 'mongs' all dem rich , fine folks , she looks lack a whole flock er angels . 
Dey ain' one er dem ladies w'at could hol' a candle ter her . 
I wonder w'at dat man's gwine ter do wid her handkercher ? I s'pose he's her gent'eman now . 
Who is the lady , Tryon ? asked one of the young men , addressing the knight who had taken the handkerchief . 
A Miss Warwick , replied the knight pleasantly , Miss Rowena Warwick , the lawyer's sister . 
I didn't know he had a sister , rejoined the first speaker . 
I envy you your lady . 
There are six Rebeccas and eight Rowenas of my own acquaintance in the grand stand , but she throws them all into the shade . 
She hasn't been here long , surely I haven't seen her before . 
She has been away at school she came only last night , returned the knight of the crimson sash , briefly . 
He was already beginning to feel a proprietary interest in the lady whose token he wore , and did not care to discuss her with a casual acquaintance . 
The herald sounded the charge . 
A rider darted out from the group and galloped over the course . 
The rider captured three of the twelve rings , knocked three others off the hooks , and left six undisturbed . 
Turning at the end of the lists , he took the lance with the reins in the left hand and drew his sword with the right . 
He then rode back over the course , cutting at the wooden balls upon the posts . 
Of these he clove one in twain , to use the parlance of chivalry , and knocked two others off their supports . 
His performance was greeted with a liberal measure of applause , for which he bowed in smiling acknowledgment as he took his place among the riders . 
Again the herald's call sounded , and the tourney went forward . 
Rider after rider , with varying skill , essayed his fortune with lance and sword . 
Some took a liberal proportion of the rings others merely knocked them over the boundaries , where they were collected by agile little negro boys and handed back to the attendants . 
A balking horse caused the spectators much amusement and his rider no little chagrin . 
The lady who had dropped the handkerchief kept her eye upon the knight who had bound it round his lance . 
Who is he , John ? she asked the gentleman beside her . 
That , my dear Rowena , is my good friend and client , George Tryon , of North Carolina . 
If he had been a stranger , I should have said that he took a liberty but as things stand , we ought to regard it as a compliment . 
The incident is quite in accord with the customs of chivalry . 
If George were but masked and you were veiled , we should have a romantic situation , you the mysterious damsel in distress , he the unknown champion . 
The parallel , my dear , might not be so hard to draw , even as things are . 
But look , it is his turn now I'll wager that he makes a good run . 
I'll take you up on that , Mr. Warwick , said Mrs. Newberry from behind , who seemed to have a very keen ear for whatever Warwick said . 
Rena's eyes were fastened on her knight , so that she might lose no single one of his movements . 
As he rode down the lists , more than one woman found him pleasant to look upon . 
He was a tall , fair young man , with gray eyes , and a frank , open face . 
He wore a slight mustache , and when he smiled , showed a set of white and even teeth . 
At the blast of the bugle his horse started forward , and , after the first few rods , settled into an even gallop . 
Tryon's lance , held truly and at the right angle , captured the first ring , then the second and third . 
Holding the lance with its booty of captured rings in his left hand , together with the bridle rein , he drew his sabre with the right and rode back over the course . 
His horse moved like clockwork , his eye was true and his hand steady . 
This performance , by far the best up to this point , and barely escaping perfection , elicited a storm of applause . 
The rider was not so well known to the townspeople as some of the other participants , and his name passed from mouth to mouth in answer to numerous inquiries . 
No one of those following him had displayed anything like equal skill . 
The herald now blew his bugle and declared the tournament closed . 
The judges put their heads together for a moment . 
Tryon took the wreath and bowed his thanks . 
The fair ground was soon covered with scattered groups of the spectators of the tournament . 
In one group a vanquished knight explained in elaborate detail why it was that he had failed to win the wreath . 
Warwick and his sister , standing under a spreading elm , held a little court of their own . 
A dozen gentlemen and several ladies had sought an introduction before Tryon came up . 
I entered my name only yesterday , merely to swell the number and make the occasion more interesting . 
These fellows have been practicing for a month , and I had no hope of winning . 
She was not without a certain courage , however , and her brother , who remained at her side , helped her over the most difficult situations . 
We'll forgive you , George , replied Warwick , if you'll come home to luncheon with us . 
I'm mighty sorry awfully sorry , returned Tryon , with evident regret , but I have another engagement , which I can scarcely break , even by the command of royalty . 
She is entirely free , replied Warwick . 
Come as early as you like , and I'll talk to you until she's ready . 
Well , Rena , said Warwick , when they found themselves alone , you have arrived . 
Your debut into society is a little more spectacular than I should have wished , but we must rise to the occasion and make the most of it . 
You are winning the first fruits of your opportunity . 
You are the most envied woman in Clarence at this particular moment , and , unless I am mistaken , will be the most admired at the ball to night . 
Now , my dear , said Mrs. Newberry , the first thing to do is to get your coronation robe ready . 
It simply means a gown with a long train . 
You have a lovely white waist . 
Get right into my buggy , and we'll go down town to get the cloth , take it over to Mrs. Marshall's , and have her run you up a skirt this afternoon . 
This was her first direct order for the specific garment . 
Tryon escorted Rena to the ball , which was held in the principal public hall of the town , and attended by all the best people . 
The champion still wore the costume of the morning , in place of evening dress , save that long stockings and dancing pumps had taken the place of riding boots . 
Rena went through the ordeal very creditably . 
Her shyness was palpable , but it was saved from awkwardness by her native grace and good sense . 
She made up in modesty what she lacked in aplomb . 
Her months in school had not eradicated a certain self consciousness born of her secret . 
The brain cells never lose the impressions of youth , and Rena's Patesville life was not far enough removed to have lost its distinctness of outline . 
Of the two , the present was more of a dream , the past was the more vivid reality . 
At school she had learned something from books and not a little from observation . 
She had been able to compare herself with other girls , and to see wherein she excelled or fell short of them . 
With a sincere desire for improvement , and a wish to please her brother and do him credit , she had sought to make the most of her opportunities . 
Building upon a foundation of innate taste and intelligence , she had acquired much of the self possession which comes from a knowledge of correct standards of deportment . 
She had moreover learned without difficulty , for it suited her disposition , to keep silence when she could not speak to advantage . 
A certain necessary reticence about the past added strength to a natural reserve . 
Few of those who watched her move with easy grace through the measures of the dance could have guessed how nearly her heart was in her mouth during much of the time . 
You're doing splendidly , my dear , said Mrs. Newberry , who had constituted herself Rena's chaperone . 
Very much , replied the Queen of Love and Beauty , with a somewhat tired smile . 
It was pleasant , but she would be glad , she thought , when it was all over . 
Keep up your courage , whispered her brother . 
You are not only queen , but the belle of the ball . 
I am proud of you . 
A dozen women here would give a year off the latter end of life to be in your shoes to night . 
Rena felt immensely relieved when the hour arrived at which she could take her departure , which was to be the signal for the breaking up of the ball . 
She was driven home in Tryon's carriage , her brother accompanying them . 
The night was warm , and the drive homeward under the starlight , in the open carriage , had a soothing effect upon Rena's excited nerves . 
She closed her eyes , and , leaning back in the carriage , thought of her mother , who she wished might have seen her daughter this night . 
A momentary pang of homesickness pierced her tender heart , and she furtively wiped away the tears that came into her eyes . 
May your Majesty never abdicate her throne , and may she ever count me her humble servant and devoted knight . 
Your day has been a glorious success ! He put his arm around her and gave her a kiss and a brotherly hug . 
It is a dream , she murmured sleepily , only a dream . 
I am Cinderella before the clock has struck . 
Good night , dear John . 
VII 'MID NEW SURROUNDINGS Warwick's residence was situated in the outskirts of the town . 
It was a fine old plantation house , built in colonial times , with a stately colonnade , wide verandas , and long windows with Venetian blinds . 
It was painted white , and stood back several rods from the street , in a charming setting of palmettoes , magnolias , and flowering shrubs . 
Rena had always thought her mother's house large , but now it seemed cramped and narrow , in comparison with this roomy mansion . 
The furniture was old fashioned and massive . 
The great brass andirons on the wide hearth stood like sentinels proclaiming and guarding the dignity of the family . 
The spreading antlers on the wall testified to a mighty hunter in some past generation . 
The portraits of Warwick's wife's ancestors high featured , proud men and women , dressed in the fashions of a bygone age looked down from tarnished gilt frames . 
It was all very novel to her , and very impressive . 
The servants , of whom there were several in the house , treated her with a deference to which her eight months in school had only partly accustomed her . 
At school she had been one of many to be served , and had herself been held to obedience . 
Here , for the first time in her life , she was mistress , and tasted the sweets of power . 
The household consisted of her brother and herself , a cook , a coachman , a nurse , and her brother's little son Albert . 
She had always loved weak creatures . 
Kittens and puppies had ever found a welcome and a meal at Rena's hands , only to be chased away by Mis' Molly , who had had a wider experience . 
No shiftless poor white , no half witted or hungry negro , had ever gone unfed from Mis' Molly's kitchen door if Rena were there to hear his plaint . 
Little Albert was pale and sickly when she came , but soon bloomed again in the sunshine of her care , and was happy only in her presence . 
Warwick found pleasure in their growing love for each other , and was glad to perceive that the child formed a living link to connect her with his home . 
Dat chile sutt'nly do lub Miss Rena , an' dat's a fac' , sho 's you bawn , remarked 'Lissa the cook to Mimy the nurse one day . 
You'll get yo' nose put out er j'int , ef you don't min' . 
I ain't frettin' , honey , laughed the nurse good naturedly . 
She was not at all jealous . 
She had the same wages as before , and her labors were materially lightened by the aunt's attention to the child . 
This gave Mimy much more time to flirt with Tom the coachman . 
It was a source of much gratification to Warwick that his sister seemed to adapt herself so easily to the new conditions . 
He had perceived , more clearly than she could have appreciated it at that time , the undeveloped elements of discord between Rena and her former life . 
He had imagined her lending grace and charm to his own household . 
Still another motive , a purely psychological one , had more or less consciously influenced him . 
Her queenship , while not entirely forgiven by the ladies of the town , had gained for her a temporary social prominence . 
Among her own sex , Mrs. Newberry proved a warm and enthusiastic friend . 
Her brother's standing gave her the right of social entry the tournament opened wide the door , and Mrs. Newberry performed the ceremony of introduction . 
George Tryon had come to Clarence a few months before upon business connected with the settlement of his grandfather's estate . 
A rather complicated litigation had grown up around the affair , various phases of which had kept Tryon almost constantly in the town . 
He had placed matters in Warwick's hands , and had formed a decided friendship for his attorney , for whom he felt a frank admiration . 
Tryon was only twenty three , and his friend's additional five years , supplemented by a certain professional gravity , commanded a great deal of respect from the younger man . 
When Tryon had known Warwick for a week , he had been ready to swear by him . 
Indeed , Warwick was a man for whom most people formed a liking at first sight . 
Tryon would have maintained against all comers that Warwick was the finest fellow in the world . 
When he met Warwick's sister , the foundation for admiration had already been laid . 
When she proved to be a young and handsome woman , of the type that he admired most , he was capable of any degree of infatuation . 
His mother had for a long time wanted him to marry the orphan daughter of an old friend , a vivacious blonde , who worshiped him . 
He had felt friendly towards her , but had shrunk from matrimony . 
He did not want her badly enough to give up his freedom . 
The war had interfered with his education , and though fairly well instructed , he had never attended college . 
In his own opinion , he ought to see something of the world , and have his youthful fling . 
The fact that Blanche Leary was visiting his mother during his unexpectedly long absence had not operated at all to hasten his return to North Carolina . 
He had been having a very good time at Clarence , and , at the distance of several hundred miles , was safe for the time being from any immediate danger of marriage . 
With Rena's advent , however , he had seen life through different glasses . 
His heart had thrilled at first sight of this tall girl , with the ivory complexion , the rippling brown hair , and the inscrutable eyes . 
When he became better acquainted with her , he liked to think that her thoughts centred mainly in himself and in this he was not far wrong . 
He discovered that she had a short upper lip , and what seemed to him an eminently kissable mouth . 
It now seemed to him the duty , as well as the high and holy privilege of a young man , to marry and manfully to pay his debt to society . 
When in Rena's presence , he could not imagine how he had ever contemplated the possibility of marriage with Blanche Leary , she was utterly , entirely , and hopelessly unsuited to him . 
For a fair man of vivacious temperament , this stately dark girl was the ideal mate . 
Even his mother would admit this , if she could only see Rena . 
To win this beautiful girl for his wife would be a worthy task . 
He had crowned her Queen of Love and Beauty since then she had ascended the throne of his heart . 
He would make her queen of his home and mistress of his life . 
To Rena this brief month's courtship came as a new education . 
The time soon came when to touch his hand in greeting sent a thrill through her frame , a time when she listened for his footstep and was happy in his presence . 
He had been bold enough at the tournament he had since become somewhat bashful and constrained . 
He must be in love , she thought , and wondered how soon he would speak . 
To be thus loved and honored by this handsome young man , she could hardly believe it possible . 
He would never speak he would discover her secret and withdraw . 
She turned pale at the thought , ah , God ! something would happen , it was too good to be true . 
The Prince would never try on the glass slipper . 
Tryon first told his love for Rena one summer evening on their way home from church . 
They were walking in the moonlight along the quiet street , which , but for their presence , seemed quite deserted . 
It appealed to her own simple nature . 
Indeed , few women at such a moment criticise the form in which the most fateful words of life but one are spoken . 
Words , while pleasant , are really superfluous . 
Her whispered Yes spoke volumes . 
They walked on past the house , along the country road into which the street soon merged . 
When they returned , an hour later , they found Warwick seated on the piazza , in a rocking chair , smoking a fragrant cigar . 
Well , children , he observed with mock severity , you are late in getting home from church . 
The sermon must have been extremely long . 
John , I am the happiest man alive . 
Your sister has promised to marry me . 
I should like to shake my brother's hand . 
Never does one feel so strongly the universal brotherhood of man as when one loves some other fellow's sister . 
Warwick sprang from his chair and clasped Tryon's extended hand with real emotion . 
He knew of no man whom he would have preferred to Tryon as a husband for his sister . 
My dear George my dear sister , he exclaimed , I am very , very glad . 
I wish you every happiness . 
My sister is the most fortunate of women . 
And I am the luckiest of men , cried Tryon . 
Thus placed upon the footing of an accepted lover , Tryon's visits to the house became more frequent . 
He wished to fix a time for the marriage , but at this point Rena developed a strange reluctance . 
Can we not love each other for a while ? she asked . 
To be engaged is a pleasure that comes but once it would be a pity to cut it too short . 
It is a pleasure that I would cheerfully dispense with , he replied , for the certainty of possession . 
I want you all to myself , and all the time . 
If I should die , for instance , before I married you Oh , don't suppose such awful things , she cried , putting her hand over his mouth . 
He held it there and kissed it until she pulled it away . 
I should consider , he resumed , completing the sentence , that my life had been a failure . 
If I should die , she murmured , I should die happy in the knowledge that you had loved me . 
In three weeks , he went on , I shall have finished my business in Clarence , and there will be but one thing to keep me here . 
When shall it be ? I must take you home with me . 
I will let you know , she replied , with a troubled sigh , in a week from to day . 
I'll call your attention to the subject every day in the mean time , he asserted . 
I shouldn't like you to forget it . 
Rena's shrinking from the irrevocable step of marriage was due to a simple and yet complex cause . 
Stated baldly , it was the consciousness of her secret the complexity arose out of the various ways in which it seemed to bear upon her future . 
Our lives are so bound up with those of our fellow men that the slightest departure from the beaten path involves a multiplicity of small adjustments . 
Under the influence of doubt and fear acting upon love , the invisible bar to happiness glowed with a lambent flame that threatened dire disaster . 
But would her lover still love her , if he knew all ? She had read some of the novels in the bookcase in her mother's hall , and others at boarding school . 
She had read that love was a conqueror , that neither life nor death , nor creed nor caste , could stay his triumphant course . 
Her secret was no legal bar to their union . 
If Rena could forget the secret , and Tryon should never know it , it would be no obstacle to their happiness . 
But Rena felt , with a sinking of the heart , that happiness was not a matter of law or of fact , but lay entirely within the domain of sentiment . 
We are happy when we think ourselves happy , and with a strange perversity we often differ from others with regard to what should constitute our happiness . 
Rena's secret was the worm in the bud , the skeleton in the closet . 
He says that he loves me . 
She was as little vain as any of her sex who are endowed with beauty . 
She tried to place herself , in thus passing upon her own claims to consideration , in the hostile attitude of society toward her hidden disability . 
I think a man might love me for myself , she murmured pathetically , and if he loved me truly , that he would marry me . 
If he would not marry me , then it would be because he didn't love me . 
I'll tell George my secret . 
If he leaves me , then he does not love me . 
But this resolution vanished into thin air before it was fully formulated . 
She had the choice of but two courses of action , to marry Tryon or to dismiss him . 
The thought that she might lose him made him seem only more dear to think that he might leave her made her sick at heart . 
In one week she was bound to give him an answer he was more likely to ask for it at their next meeting . 
IX DOUBTS AND FEARS Rena's heart was too heavy with these misgivings for her to keep them to herself . 
He looked up amiably from the book before him and read trouble in her face . 
He had found her very backward in asking for things that she needed . 
Generous with his means , he thought nothing too good for her . 
Her success had gratified his pride , and justified his course in taking her under his protection . 
You give me already more than I need . 
It is something else , John . 
George wants me to say when I will marry him . 
I am afraid to marry him , without telling him . 
If he should find out afterwards , he might cast me off , or cease to love me . 
Warwick's smile gave place to a grave expression at this somewhat comprehensive statement . 
He rose and closed the door carefully , lest some one of the servants might overhear the conversation . 
More liberally endowed than Rena with imagination , and not without a vein of sentiment , he had nevertheless a practical side that outweighed them both . 
With him , the problem that oppressed his sister had been in the main a matter of argument , of self conviction . 
This he had been able to do by simply concealing his antecedents and making the most of his opportunities , with no troublesome qualms of conscience whatever . 
Warwick's imagination , however , enabled him to put himself in touch with her mood and recognize its bearings upon her conduct . 
He would have preferred her taking the practical point of view , to bring her round to which he perceived would be a matter of diplomacy . 
How long have these weighty thoughts been troubling your small head ? he asked with assumed lightness . 
Since he asked me last night to name our wedding day . 
My dear child , continued Warwick , you take too tragic a view of life . 
Marriage is a reciprocal arrangement , by which the contracting parties give love for love , care for keeping , faith for faith . 
It is a matter of the future , not of the past . 
Still less are we bound to bring out from this secret chamber the dusty record of our ancestry . 
Let the dead past bury its dead . 
George Tryon loves you for yourself alone it is not your ancestors that he seeks to marry . 
But would he marry me if he knew ? she persisted . 
He would have preferred to argue the question in a general way , but felt the necessity of satisfying her scruples , as far as might be . 
He had liked Tryon from the very beginning of their acquaintance . 
In all their intercourse , which had been very close for several months , he had been impressed by the young man's sunny temper , his straightforwardness , his intellectual honesty . 
Tryon's deference to Warwick as the elder man had very naturally proved an attraction . 
Whether this friendship would have stood the test of utter frankness about his own past was a merely academic speculation with which Warwick did not trouble himself . 
With his sister the question had evidently become a matter of conscience , a difficult subject with which to deal in a person of Rena's temperament . 
My dear sister , he replied , why should he know ? We haven't asked him for his pedigree we don't care to know it . 
If he cares for ours , he should ask for it , and it would then be time enough to raise the question . 
You love him , I imagine , and wish to make him happy ? It is the highest wish of the woman who loves . 
The enamored man seeks his own happiness the loving woman finds no sacrifice too great for the loved one . 
The fiction of chivalry made man serve woman the fact of human nature makes woman happiest when serving where she loves . 
Yes , oh , yes , Rena exclaimed with fervor , clasping her hands unconsciously . 
I'm afraid he'd be unhappy if he knew , and it would make me miserable to think him unhappy . 
One could not tear love out of one's heart without pain and suffering . 
There was a knock at the door . 
Warwick opened it to the nurse , who stood with little Albert in her arms . 
Give me the darling , exclaimed Rena , coming forward and taking the child from the nurse . 
Come to its auntie , bless its little heart ! Little Albert crowed with pleasure and put up his pretty mouth for a kiss . 
Warwick found the sight a pleasant one . 
If he could but quiet his sister's troublesome scruples , he might erelong see her fondling beautiful children of her own . 
Even if Rena were willing to risk her happiness , and he to endanger his position , by a quixotic frankness , the future of his child must not be compromised . 
You wouldn't want to make George unhappy , Warwick resumed when the nurse retired . 
Some men are very liberal , and love is a great leveler . 
I'll sound him , at any rate . 
He kissed the baby and left Rena to her own reflections , to which his presentation of the case had given a new turn . 
It had never before occurred to her to regard silence in the light of self sacrifice . 
It had seemed a sort of sin her brother's argument made of it a virtue . 
It was not the first time , nor the last , that right and wrong had been a matter of view point . 
Tryon himself furnished the opening for Warwick's proposed examination . 
The younger man could not long remain silent upon the subject uppermost in his mind . 
I am anxious , John , he said , to have Rowena name the happiest day of my life our wedding day . 
When the trial in Edgecombe County is finished , I shall have no further business here , and shall be ready to leave for home . 
I should like to take my bride with me , and surprise my mother . 
Mothers , thought Warwick , are likely to prove inquisitive about their sons' wives , especially when taken unawares in matters of such importance . 
This seemed a good time to test the liberality of Tryon's views , and to put forward a shield for his sister's protection . 
Rena herself would be a complete justification for the accomplished deed . 
You must take us for ourselves alone we are new people . 
My dear John , replied the young man warmly , there is a great deal of nonsense about families . 
It makes me glad to hear you speak in that way , returned Warwick , delighted by the young man's breadth and earnestness . 
Oh , I mean every word of it , replied Tryon . 
Ancestors , indeed , for Rowena ! I will tell you a family secret , John , to prove how little I care for ancestors . 
My maternal great great grandfather , a hundred and fifty years ago , was hanged , drawn , and quartered for stealing cattle across the Scottish border . 
How is that for a pedigree ? Behold in me the lineal descendant of a felon ! Warwick felt much relieved at this avowal . 
It was a great relief , however , to imagine that Tryon might think lightly of this thing that he need never know . 
Well , Rena , he said to his sister when he went home at noon I've sounded George . 
What did he say ? she asked eagerly . 
I told him we were people of no family , and that we had no relatives that we were proud of . 
He said he loved you for yourself , and would never ask you about your ancestry . 
Oh , I am so glad ! exclaimed Rena joyfully . 
This report left her very happy for about three hours , or until she began to analyze carefully her brother's account of what had been said . 
Warwick's statement had not been specific , he had not told Tryon THE thing . 
George's reply , in turn , had been a mere generality . 
The concrete fact that oppressed her remained unrevealed , and her doubt was still unsatisfied . 
Rena was occupied with this thought when her lover next came to see her . 
Tryon came up the sanded walk from the gate and spoke pleasantly to the nurse , a good looking yellow girl who was seated on the front steps , playing with little Albert . 
He took the boy from her arms , and she went to call Miss Warwick . 
Rena came out , followed by the nurse , who offered to take the child . 
Never mind , Mimy , leave him with me , said Tryon . 
The nurse walked discreetly over into the garden , remaining within call , but beyond the hearing of conversation in an ordinary tone . 
Rena , darling , said her lover , when shall it be ? Surely you won't ask me to wait a week . 
Why , that's a lifetime ! Rena was struck by a brilliant idea . 
She would test her lover . 
Love was a very powerful force she had found it the greatest , grandest , sweetest thing in the world . 
Tryon had said that he loved her he had said scarcely anything else for several weeks , surely nothing else worth remembering . 
She would test his love by a hypothetical question . 
You say you love me , she said , glancing at him with a sad thoughtfulness in her large dark eyes . 
How much do you love me ? I love you all one can love . 
The answer seemed to fit the question , but in fact , Tryon's mind and Rena's did not meet . 
That two intelligent persons should each attach a different meaning to so simple a form of words as Rena's question was the best ground for her misgiving with regard to the marriage . 
She was anxious to be convinced . 
She interpreted the meaning of his speech by her own thought and by the ardor of his glance , and was satisfied with the answer . 
And now , darling , pleaded Tryon , will you not fix the day that shall make me happy ? I shall be ready to go away in three weeks . 
Will you go with me ? Yes , she answered , in a tumult of joy . 
She would never need to tell him her secret now . 
It would make no difference with him , so far as she was concerned and she had no right to reveal her brother's secret . 
She was willing to bury the past in forgetfulness , now that she knew it would have no interest for her lover . 
X THE DREAM The marriage was fixed for the thirtieth of the month , immediately after which Tryon and his bride were to set out for North Carolina . 
It would of course be necessary for Rena to keep away from Patesville save for her mother's sake , she would hardly be tempted to go back . 
Their destination was a day's drive from Clarence , behind a good horse , and the trial was expected to last a week . 
This week will seem like a year , said Tryon ruefully , the evening before their departure , but I'll write every day , and shall expect a letter as often . 
The mail goes only twice a week , George , replied Rena . 
Then I shall have three letters in each mail . 
Warwick and Tryon were to set out in the cool of the morning , after an early breakfast . 
Rena was up at daybreak that she might preside at the breakfast table and bid the travelers good by . 
John , said Rena to her brother in the morning , I dreamed last night that mother was ill . 
Dreams , you know , Rena , answered Warwick lightly , go by contraries . 
Yours undoubtedly signifies that our mother , God bless her simple soul ! is at the present moment enjoying her usual perfect health . 
She was never sick in her life . 
For a few months after leaving Patesville with her brother , Rena had suffered tortures of homesickness those who have felt it know the pang . 
The severance of old ties had been abrupt and complete . 
It was not strange that Rena , thus isolated , should have been prostrated by homesickness for several weeks after leaving Patesville . 
When the paroxysm had passed , there followed a dull pain , which gradually subsided into a resignation as profound , in its way , as had been her longing for home . 
She loved , she suffered , with a quiet intensity of which her outward demeanor gave no adequate expression . 
From some ancestral source she had derived a strain of the passive fatalism by which alone one can submit uncomplainingly to the inevitable . 
By the same token , when once a thing had been decided , it became with her a finality , which only some extraordinary stress of emotion could disturb . 
Warwick had made provision for an occasional letter from Patesville , by leaving with his mother a number of envelopes directed to his address . 
She could have her letters written , inclose them in these envelopes , and deposit them in the post office with her own hand . 
By this simple means Rena had kept as closely in touch with her mother as Warwick had considered prudent any closer intercourse was not consistent with their present station in life . 
The night after Warwick and Tryon had ridden away , Rena dreamed again that her mother was ill . 
Better taught people than she , in regions more enlightened than the South Carolina of that epoch , are disturbed at times by dreams . 
Mis' Molly had a profound faith in them . 
For Mis' Molly , to whom science would have meant nothing and psychology would have been a meaningless term , the land of dreams was carefully mapped and bounded . 
Each dream had some special significance , or was at least susceptible of classification under some significant head . 
Dreams , as a general rule , went by contraries but a dream three times repeated was a certain portent of the thing defined . 
Rena's few years of schooling at Patesville and her months at Charleston had scarcely disturbed these hoary superstitions which lurk in the dim corners of the brain . 
No lady in Clarence , perhaps , would have remained undisturbed by a vivid dream , three times repeated , of some event bearing materially upon her own life . 
The first repetition of a dream was decisive of nothing , for two dreams meant no more than one . 
The power of the second lay in the suspense , the uncertainty , to which it gave rise . 
Two doubled the chance of a third . 
The day following this second dream was an anxious one for Rena . 
She could not for an instant dismiss her mother from her thoughts , which were filled too with a certain self reproach . 
She had left her mother alone if her mother were really ill , there was no one at home to tend her with loving care . 
This feeling grew in force , until by nightfall Rena had become very unhappy , and went to bed with the most dismal forebodings . 
Her mother was sick and needed her , and would die if she did not come . 
She felt that she must see her mother , it would be almost like murder to remain away from her under such circumstances . 
After breakfast she went into the business part of the town and inquired at what time a train would leave that would take her toward Patesville . 
Calling at the post office for the family mail , she found there a letter from her mother , which she tore open in great excitement . 
I have had a kind of misery in my side for two weeks , with palpitations of the heart , and I have been in bed for three days . 
I'm feeling mighty poorly , but Dr . 
Green says that I'll get over it in a few days . 
Old Aunt Zilphy is staying with me , and looking after things tolerably well . 
I hope this will find you and John enjoying good health . 
Give my love to John , and I hope the Lord will bless him and you too . 
Cousin Billy Oxendine has had a rising on his neck , and has had to have it lanced . 
Mary B. has another young one , a boy this time . 
Old man Tom Johnson was killed last week while trying to whip black Jim Brown , who lived down on the Wilmington Road . 
There has been a big freshet in the river , and it looked at one time as if the new bridge would be washed away . 
Frank comes over every day or two and asks about you . 
He's very good to me , and brings over shavings and kindling wood , and made me a new well bucket for nothing . 
It's a comfort to talk to him about you , though I haven't told him where you are living . 
I hope this will find you and John both well , and doing well . 
Your affectionate mother , MARY WALDEN . 
Rena shed tears over this simple letter , which , to her excited imagination , merely confirmed the warning of her dream . 
At the date of its writing her mother had been sick in bed , with the symptoms of a serious illness . 
She had no nurse but a purblind old woman . 
Three days of progressive illness had evidently been quite sufficient to reduce her parent to the condition indicated by the third dream . 
The thought that her mother might die without the presence of any one who loved her pierced Rena's heart like a knife and lent wings to her feet . 
She determined to go at once to Patesville . 
To her lover she wrote that she had been called away to visit a sick bed , and would return very soon , perhaps by the time he got back to Clarence . 
These letters Rena posted on her way to the train , which she took at five o'clock in the afternoon . 
This would bring her to Patesville early in the morning of the following day . 
XI A LETTER AND A JOURNEY War has been called the court of last resort . 
A lawsuit may with equal aptness be compared to a battle the parallel might be drawn very closely all along the line . 
The case was compromised and settled , and Tryon and Warwick set out on their homeward drive . 
They stopped at a farm house at noon , and while at table saw the stage coach from the town they had just left , bound for their own destination . 
They reached Clarence at four o'clock . 
Warwick got down from the buggy at his office . 
Tryon drove on to his hotel , to make a hasty toilet before visiting his sweetheart . 
Warwick glanced at his mail , tore open the envelope addressed in his sister's handwriting , and read the contents with something like dismay . 
A dim foreboding of disaster flashed across his mind . 
He thrust the letter into his pocket , with others yet unopened , and started toward his home . 
Reaching the gate , he paused a moment and then walked on past the house . 
Tryon would probably be there in a few minutes , and he did not care to meet him without first having had the opportunity for some moments of reflection . 
He must fix upon some line of action in this emergency . 
Meanwhile Tryon had reached his hotel and opened his mail . 
The letter from Rena was read first , with profound disappointment . 
He had really made concessions in the settlement of that lawsuit had yielded several hundred dollars of his just dues , in order that he might get back to Rena three days earlier . 
Now he must cool his heels in idleness for at least three days before she would return . 
It was annoying , to say the least . 
He wished to know where she had gone , that he might follow her and stay near her until she should be ready to come back . 
He might ask Warwick no , she might have had some good reason for not having mentioned her destination . 
Indeed , he did not know that he would himself care to endanger , by suggestive comparisons , the fine aureole of superiority that surrounded her . 
The flower would soon be his why should he care to dig up the soil in which it grew ? Tryon went on opening his letters . 
There were several bills and circulars , and then a letter from his mother , of which he broke the seal MY DEAREST GEORGE , This leaves us well . 
Blanche is still with me , and we are impatiently awaiting your return . 
In your absence she seems almost like a daughter to me . 
She joins me in the hope that your lawsuits are progressing favorably , and that you will be with us soon . 
Things ought to be settled enough now for people to realize on some of their securities . 
Your grandfather always believed the note was good , and meant to try to collect it , but the war interfered . 
He said to me , before he died , that if the note was ever collected , he would use the money to buy a wedding present for your wife . 
If you go to Patesville , call on my cousin , Dr . 
Green , and tell him who you are . 
I haven't seen him for twenty years . 
He used to be very fond of the ladies , a very gallant man . 
He can direct you to a good lawyer , no doubt . 
Hoping to see you soon , Your loving mother , ELIZABETH TRYON . 
P. S. Blanche joins me in love to you . 
This affectionate and motherly letter did not give Tryon unalloyed satisfaction . 
He was glad to hear that his mother was well , but he had hoped that Blanche Leary might have finished her visit by this time . 
The reasonable inference from the letter was that Blanche meant to await his return . 
There would be one advantage in such a meeting the comparison of the two women would be so much in Rena's favor that his mother could not hesitate for a moment between them . 
The situation , however , would have elements of constraint , and he did not care to expose either Rena or Blanche to any disagreeable contingency . 
It would be better to take his wife on a wedding trip , and notify his mother , before he returned home , of his marriage . 
In the extremely improbable case that she should disapprove his choice after having seen his wife , the ice would at least have been broken before his arrival at home . 
The train goes in twenty minutes . 
My bag is already packed . 
I'll just drop a line to George and tell him where I've gone . 
These he thrust into the same pocket with Rena's letter he wished to read both letter and papers while on the train . 
It would be a pleasure merely to hold the letter before his eyes and look at the lines traced by her hand . 
The papers he wished to study , for the more practical purpose of examining into the merits of his claim against the estate of Duncan McSwayne . 
When Warwick reached home , he inquired if Mr. Tryon had called . 
No , suh , answered the nurse , to whom he had put the question he ain't be'n here yet , suh . 
Warwick was surprised and much disturbed . 
De baby 's be'n cryin' for Miss Rena , suggested the nurse , an' I s'pec' he'd like to see you , suh . 
Shall I fetch 'im ? Yes , bring him to me . 
He took the child in his arms and went out upon the piazza . 
Several porch pillows lay invitingly near . 
He pushed them toward the steps with his foot , sat down upon one , and placed little Albert upon another . 
He was scarcely seated when a messenger from the hotel came up the walk from the gate and handed him a note . 
At the same moment he heard the long shriek of the afternoon train leaving the station on the opposite side of the town . 
He tore the envelope open anxiously , read the note , smiled a sickly smile , and clenched the paper in his hand unconsciously . 
There was nothing he could do . 
The train had gone there was no telegraph to Patesville , and no letter could leave Clarence for twenty four hours . 
The best laid schemes go wrong at times the stanchest ships are sometimes wrecked , or skirt the breakers perilously . 
Life is a sea , full of strange currents and uncharted reefs whoever leaves the traveled path must run the danger of destruction . 
Warwick was a lawyer , however , and accustomed to balance probabilities . 
He may easily be in Patesville a day or two without meeting her . 
She will spend most of her time at mother's bedside , and he will be occupied with his own affairs . 
If Tryon should meet her well , he was very much in love , and he had spoken very nobly of birth and blood . 
Warwick would have preferred , nevertheless , that Tryon's theories should not be put to this particular test . 
Rena's scruples had so far been successfully combated the question would be opened again , and the situation unnecessarily complicated , if Tryon should meet Rena in Patesville . 
Will he or will he not ? he asked himself . 
He took a coin from his pocket and spun it upon the floor . 
Heads , he sees her tails , he does not . 
The coin spun swiftly and steadily , leaving upon the eye the impression of a revolving sphere . 
Little Albert , left for a moment to his own devices , had crept behind his father and was watching the whirling disk with great pleasure . 
He felt that he would like to possess this interesting object . 
The coin began to move more slowly , and was wabbling to its fall , when the child stretched forth his chubby fist and caught it ere it touched the floor . 
XII TRYON GOES TO PATESVILLE Tryon arrived in the early morning and put up at the Patesville Hotel , a very comfortable inn . 
After a bath , breakfast , and a visit to the barbershop , he inquired of the hotel clerk the way to the office of Dr . 
Green , his mother's cousin . 
On the corner , sir , answered the clerk , by the market house , just over the drugstore . 
The doctor drove past here only half an hour ago . 
You'll probably catch him in his office . 
Tryon found the office without difficulty . 
He climbed the stair , but found no one in except a young colored man seated in the outer office , who rose promptly as Tryon entered . 
No , suh , replied the man to Tryon's question , he ain't hyuh now . 
He's gone out to see a patient , suh , but he'll be back soon . 
Won't you set down in de private office an' wait fer 'im , suh ? Tryon had not slept well during his journey , and felt somewhat fatigued . 
Through the open door of the next room he saw an inviting armchair , with a window at one side , and upon the other a table strewn with papers and magazines . 
Yes , he answered , I'll wait . 
He entered the private office , sank into the armchair , and looked out of the window upon the square below . 
The view was mildly interesting . 
The old brick market house with the tower was quite picturesque . 
On a wagon scale at one end the public weighmaster was weighing a load of hay . 
In the booths under the wide arches several old negro women were frying fish on little charcoal stoves the odor would have been appetizing to one who had not breakfasted . 
Now and then a lady or gentleman passed with leisurely step no one ever hurried in Patesville or some poor white sandhiller slouched listlessly along toward store or bar room . 
Tryon mechanically counted the slabs of gingerbread on the nearest market stall , and calculated the cubical contents of several of the meagre loads of wood . 
Having exhausted the view , he turned to the table at his elbow and picked up a medical journal , in which he read first an account of a marvelous surgical operation . 
Turning the leaves idly , he came upon an article by a Southern writer , upon the perennial race problem that has vexed the country for a century . 
When Tryon had finished the article , which seemed to him a well considered argument , albeit a trifle bombastic , he threw the book upon the table . 
According to the habit of youth , he dreamed , and pursuant to his own individual habit , he dreamed of Rena . 
They were walking in the moonlight , along the quiet road in front of her brother's house . 
The air was redolent with the perfume of flowers . 
His arm was around her waist . 
He had asked her if she loved him , and was awaiting her answer in tremulous but confident expectation . 
She opened her lips to speak . 
The sound that came from them seemed to be Is Dr . 
Green in ? No ? Ask him , when he comes back , please , to call at our house as soon as he can . 
The shock was sufficient to disturb Tryon's slumber , and he struggled slowly back to consciousness . 
When fully awake , he thought he heard a light footfall descending the stairs . 
Was there some one here ? he inquired of the attendant in the outer office , who was visible through the open door . 
Yas , suh , replied the boy , a young cullud 'oman wuz in jes' now , axin' fer de doctuh . 
Tryon felt a momentary touch of annoyance that a negro woman should have intruded herself into his dream at its most interesting point . 
He could just see the flutter of a woman's skirt disappearing around the corner . 
A moment later the doctor came bustling in , a plump , rosy man of fifty or more , with a frank , open countenance and an air of genial good nature . 
Such a doctor , Tryon fancied , ought to enjoy a wide popularity . 
His mere presence would suggest life and hope and healthfulness . 
My dear boy , exclaimed the doctor cordially , after Tryon had introduced himself , I'm delighted to meet you or any one of the old blood . 
You're like her ! too , but not quite so handsome you've more of what I suppose to be the Tryon favor , though I never met your father . 
So one of old Duncan McSwayne's notes went so far as that ? Well , well , I don't know where you won't find them . 
One of them turned up here the other day from New York . 
The man you want to see , he added later in the conversation , is old Judge Straight . 
He's getting somewhat stiff in the joints , but he knows more law , and more about the McSwayne estate , than any other two lawyers in town . 
If anybody can collect your claim , Judge Straight can . 
I'll send my boy Dave over to his office . 
Dave , he called to his attendant , run over to Judge Straight's office and see if he's there . 
Did you ask when he'd be back ? No , suh , you didn't tell me ter , suh . 
Well , now , go back and inquire . 
The niggers , he explained to Tryon , are getting mighty trifling since they've been freed . 
Before the war , that boy would have been around there and back before you could say Jack Robinson now , the lazy rascal takes his time just like a white man . 
Dave returned more promptly than from his first trip . 
Jedge Straight's dere now , suh , he said . 
I'll take you right around and introduce you , said the doctor , running on pleasantly , like a babbling brook . 
See to the patients , Dave , and say I'll be back shortly , and don't forget any messages left for me . 
Look sharp , now ! You know your failing ! They found Judge Straight in his office . 
He was seated by the rear window , and had fallen into a gentle doze the air of Patesville was conducive to slumber . 
The judge , an old hand , roused himself so skillfully , at the sound of approaching footsteps , that his visitors could not guess but that he had been wide awake . 
No , replied the judge , in answer to a question by Dr . 
Green , I never met his mother I was a generation ahead of her . 
I must live more than twice as long as I have in order to cover it . 
A long time , and a troubled time , sighed the judge . 
I could wish that I might see this unhappy land at peace with itself before I die . 
Things are in a sad tangle I can't see the way out . 
But the worst enemy has been slain , in spite of us . 
We are well rid of slavery . 
But the negro we still have with us , remarked the doctor , for here comes my man Dave . 
What is it , Dave ? he asked sharply , as the negro stuck his head in at the door . 
Ah , yes , and you've just remembered it ! I'm afraid you're entirely too forgetful for a doctor's office . 
You forgot about old Mrs. Latimer , the other day , and when I got there she had almost choked to death . 
An old woman out in Redbank got a fishbone in her throat , the other day , and nearly choked to death before I got there . 
A white woman , sir , came very near losing her life because of a lazy , trifling negro ! I should think you would discharge him , sir , suggested Tryon . 
What would be the use ? rejoined the doctor . 
All negroes are alike , except that now and then there's a pretty woman along the border line . 
You know who I mean , don't you , judge ? Yes . 
I think so , said the judge promptly . 
I've transacted a little business for her now and then . 
I don't know whether you've seen the daughter or not I'm sure you haven't for the past year or so , for she's been away . 
But she's in town now , and , by Jove , the girl is really beautiful . 
And I'm a judge of beauty . 
Do you remember my wife thirty years ago , judge ? She was a very handsome woman , Ed , replied the other judicially . 
If I had been twenty years younger , I should have cut you out . 
You mean you would have tried . 
If she had been born white , the young fellows would be tumbling over one another to get her . 
She'll probably marry a Yankee he won't know any better , and it will serve him right she's only too white for them . 
She has a very striking figure , something on the Greek order , stately and slow moving . 
Ah , no , judge , replied the other , with a flattered smile , my admiration for beauty is purely abstract . 
Twenty five years ago , when I was younger When you were young , corrected the judge . 
When you and I were younger , continued the doctor ingeniously , twenty five years ago , I could not have answered for myself . 
But I would advise the girl to stay at the North , if she can . 
She's certainly out of place around here . 
Tryon found the subject a little tiresome , and the doctor's enthusiasm not at all contagious . 
He could not possibly have been interested in a colored girl , under any circumstances , and he was engaged to be married to the most beautiful white woman on earth . 
To mention a negro woman in the same room where he was thinking of Rena seemed little short of profanation . 
His friend the doctor was a jovial fellow , but it was surely doubtful taste to refer to his wife in such a conversation . 
He was very glad when the doctor dropped the subject and permitted him to go more into detail about the matter which formed his business in Patesville . 
He took out of his pocket the papers concerning the McSwayne claim and laid them on the judge's desk . 
You'll find everything there , sir , the note , the contract , and some correspondence that will give you the hang of the thing . 
Will you be able to look over them to day ? I should like , he added a little nervously , to go back to morrow . 
Green vivaciously , insult our town by staying only one day ? It won't be long enough to get acquainted with our young ladies . 
Patesville girls are famous for their beauty . 
But perhaps there's a loadstone in South Carolina to draw you back ? Ah , you change color ! To my mind there's nothing finer than the ingenuous blush of youth . 
But we'll spare you if you'll answer one question is it serious ? I'm to be married in two weeks , sir , answered Tryon . 
The statement sounded very pleasant , in spite of the slight embarrassment caused by the inquiry . 
Good boy ! rejoined the doctor , taking his arm familiarly they were both standing now . 
You ought to have married a Patesville girl , but you people down towards the eastern counties seldom come this way , and we are evidently too late to catch you . 
If you'll drop in around three or four o'clock , I may be able to give you an opinion . 
Now , George , exclaimed the doctor , we'll go back to the office for a spell , and then I'll take you home with me to luncheon . 
Oh , you must come ! Mrs. Green would never forgive me if I didn't bring you . 
Strangers are rare birds in our society , and when they come we make them welcome . 
Our enemies may overturn our institutions , and try to put the bottom rail on top , but they cannot destroy our Southern hospitality . 
Do not be alarmed about me , for I shall very likely be back by the time you are . 
Yours lovingly , ROWENA WARWICK . 
The judge was unable to connect this letter with the transaction which formed the subject of his examination . 
It is the Walden woman's daughter , as sure as fate ! Her name is Rena . 
Her brother goes by the name of Warwick . 
She has come to visit her sick mother . 
One curse of negro slavery was , and one part of its baleful heritage is , that it poisoned the fountains of human sympathy . 
Under a system where men might sell their own children without social reprobation or loss of prestige , it was not surprising that some of them should hate their distant cousins . 
Well , here we are again , as the clown in the circus remarks , murmured the judge . 
Ten years later , the ghost of my good deed returns to haunt me , and makes me doubt whether I have wrought more evil than good . 
I wonder , he mused , if he will find her out ? The judge was a man of imagination he had read many books and had personally outlived some prejudices . 
He let his mind run on the various phases of the situation . 
If he found her out , would he by any possibility marry her ? It is not likely , he answered himself . 
If he made the discovery here , the facts would probably leak out in the town . 
It is something that a man might do in secret , but only a hero or a fool would do openly . 
The judge sighed as he contemplated another possibility . 
He had lived for seventy years under the old regime . 
The young man was a gentleman so had been the girl's father . 
Conditions were changed , but human nature was the same . 
If the judge had had sons and daughters of his own , he might not have done what he now proceeded to do . 
There is certainly as much reason in my helping the girl as the boy , for being a woman , she is less able to help herself . 
He dipped his pen into the ink and wrote the following lines MADAM , If you value your daughter's happiness , keep her at home for the next day or two . 
Here , Billy , he said , handing the boy the note , take this to Mis' Molly Walden . 
Do you know where she lives down on Front Street , in the house behind the cedars ? Yas , suh , I knows de place . 
When you come back and tell me what she says , I'll give you ten cents . 
Just here , however , the judge made his mistake . 
Very few mortals can spare the spring of hope , the motive force of expectation . 
The boy kept the note in his hand , winked at his companions , who had gathered as near as their awe of the judge would permit , and started down the street . 
As soon as the judge had disappeared , Billy beckoned to his friends , who speedily overtook him . 
When the party turned the corner of Front Street and were safely out of sight of Judge Straight's office , the capitalist entered the grocery store and invested his unearned increment in gingerbread . 
When the ensuing saturnalia was over , Billy finished the game of marbles which the judge had interrupted , and then set out to execute his commission . 
Who's it fur ? she asked . 
It's fuh you , ma'm , replied the lad . 
An' who's it from ? she inquired , turning the envelope over and over , and examining it with the impotent curiosity of one who cannot read . 
F'm ole Jedge Straight , ma'm . 
He tole me ter fetch it ter you . 
Is you got a roasted 'tater you could gimme , ma'm ? Shorely , chile . 
I'll have Aunt Zilphy fetch you a piece of 'tater pone , if you'll hol' on a minute . 
The boy took the gratuity , thanked her , and turned to go . 
Mis' Molly was still scanning the superscription of the letter . 
I wonder , she murmured , what old Judge Straight can be writin' to me about . 
Oh , boy ! Yas 'm , answered the messenger , looking back . 
Can you read writin' ? No 'm . 
She laid the letter carefully on the chimney piece of the kitchen . 
I reckon it's somethin' mo' 'bout the taxes , she thought , or maybe somebody wants to buy one er my lots . 
Rena'll be back terreckly , an' she kin read it an' find out . 
I'm glad my child'en have be'n to school . 
They never could have got where they are now if they hadn't . 
She laid the envelope and letter on a table in her bedroom , and went to answer the knock . 
The wind , blowing across the room through the open windows , picked up the envelope and bore it into the street . 
Mis' Molly , on her return , missed it , looked for it , and being unable to find it , took another envelope . 
An hour or two later another gust of wind lifted the bit of paper from the ground and carried it into the open door of the cooper shop . 
Frank picked it up , and observing that it was clean and unused , read the superscription . 
Frank was an intelligent fellow , and could put this and that together . 
The envelope was addressed to a place in South Carolina . 
He was aware , from some casual remark of Mis' Molly's , that Rena had gone to live in South Carolina . 
Her son's name was John that he had changed his last name was more than likely . 
Frank was not long in reaching the conclusion that Rena was to be found near the town named on the envelope , which he carefully preserved for future reference . 
For a whole year Frank had yearned for a smile or a kind word from the only woman in the world . 
Peter , his father , had rallied him somewhat upon his moodiness after Rena's departure . 
Now 's de time , boy , fer you ter be lookin' roun' fer some nice gal er yo' own color , w'at'll 'preciate you , an' won't be 'shamed er you . 
You're wastin' time , boy , wastin' time , shootin' at a mark outer yo' range . 
Later an opportunity to see her presented itself . 
Business in the cooper shop was dull . 
A barrel factory had been opened in the town , and had well nigh paralyzed the cooper's trade . 
The best mechanic could hardly compete with a machine . 
One man could now easily do the work of Peter's shop . 
An agent appeared in town seeking laborers for one of the railroads which the newly organized carpet bag governments were promoting . 
Upon inquiry Frank learned that their destination was near the town of Clarence , South Carolina . 
He promptly engaged himself for the service , and was soon at work in the neighborhood of Warwick's home . 
There he was employed steadily until a certain holiday , upon which a grand tournament was advertised to take place in a neighboring town . 
Work was suspended , and foremen and laborers attended the festivities . 
Frank had surmised that Rena would be present on such an occasion . 
He had more than guessed , too , that she must be looked for among the white people rather than among the black . 
Hence the interest with which he had scanned the grand stand . 
The result has already been recounted . 
He had recognized her sweet face he had seen her enthroned among the proudest and best . 
He had witnessed and gloried in her triumph . 
He had seen her cheek flushed with pleasure , her eyes lit up with smiles . 
He had followed her carriage , had made the acquaintance of Mimy the nurse , and had learned all about the family . 
Frank went away without having received one smile or heard one word from Rena but he had seen her she was happy he was content in the knowledge of her happiness . 
She was doubtless secure in the belief that her secret was unknown . 
I would n' want ter skeer her , he mused , er make her feel bad , an' dat's w'at I'd mos' lackly do ef she seed me . 
She'll be better off wid me out'n de road . 
The taint of black blood was the unpardonable sin , from the unmerited penalty of which there was no escape except by concealment . 
To undertake what they tried to do required great courage . 
When Rena came back unexpectedly at the behest of her dream , Frank heard again the music of her voice , felt the joy of her presence and the benison of her smile . 
There was , however , a subtle difference in her bearing . 
Her words were not less kind , but they seemed to come from a remoter source . 
She was kind , as the sun is warm or the rain refreshing she was especially kind to Frank , because he had been good to her mother . 
A smile and a kind word were little enough to pay for a life's devotion . 
Frank was quite certain that she did not know of Tryon's presence in the town . 
Frank had been over to Mis' Molly's in the morning , and had offered his services to the sick woman , who had rapidly become convalescent upon her daughter's return . 
Mis' Molly had spoken of some camphor that she needed . 
Frank had volunteered to get it . 
Rena had thanked him , and had spoken of going to the drugstore during the afternoon . 
It was her intention to leave Patesville on the following day . 
Ef dat man sees her in dis town , said Frank to himself , dere'll be trouble . 
She don't know HE'S here , an' I'll bet he don't know SHE'S here . 
Then Frank was assailed by a very strong temptation . 
If , as he surmised , the joint presence of the two lovers in Patesville was a mere coincidence , a meeting between them would probably result in the discovery of Rena's secret . 
If she's found out , argued the tempter , she'll come back to her mother , and you can see her every day . 
But Frank's love was not of the selfish kind . 
He put temptation aside , and applied the whip to the back of his mule with a vigor that astonished the animal and moved him to unwonted activity . 
In an unusually short space of time he drew up before Mis' Molly's back gate , sprang from the cart , and ran up to Mis' Molly on the porch . 
Is Miss Rena here ? he demanded breathlessly . 
No , Frank she went up town 'bout an hour ago to see the doctor an' git me some camphor gum . 
I wonder what in the worl 's the matter with Frank , mused Mis' Molly , in vague alarm . 
Ef he hadn't be'n in such a hurry , I'd 'a' axed him to read Judge Straight's letter . 
But Rena'll be home soon . 
When Frank reached the doctor's office , he saw Tryon seated in the doctor's buggy , which was standing by the window of the drugstore . 
Frank ran upstairs and asked the doctor's man if Miss Walden had been there . 
Yas , replied Dave , she wuz here a little w'ile ago , an' said she wuz gwine downstairs ter de drugsto' . 
I would n' be s'prise' ef you'd fin' her dere now . 
XV MINE OWN PEOPLE The drive by which Dr . 
The Hill had lost some of its former glory , however , for the blight of a four years' war was everywhere . 
After reaching the top of this wooded eminence , the road skirted for some little distance the brow of the hill . 
Below them lay the picturesque old town , a mass of vivid green , dotted here and there with gray roofs that rose above the tree tops . 
Two long ribbons of streets stretched away from the Hill to the faint red line that marked the high bluff beyond the river at the farther side of the town . 
The market house tower and the slender spires of half a dozen churches were sharply outlined against the green background . 
The face of the clock was visible , but the hours could have been read only by eyes of phenomenal sharpness . 
Around them stretched ruined walls , dismantled towers , and crumbling earthworks footprints of the god of war , one of whose temples had crowned this height . 
For many years before the rebellion a Federal arsenal had been located at Patesville . 
Green's spacious brick house , which occupied an ideally picturesque site , was overgrown by a network of clinging vines , contrasting most agreeably with the mellow red background . 
Mrs. Green greeted Tryon cordially . 
The Patesville people were not exceptional in the weaknesses and meannesses which are common to all mankind , but for some of the finer social qualities they were conspicuously above the average . 
The doctor , after the introductions , excused himself for a moment . 
Mrs. Green soon left Tryon with the young ladies and went to look after luncheon . 
Her first errand , however , was to find the doctor . 
Is he well off , Ed ? she asked her husband . 
Lots of land , and plenty of money , if he is ever able to collect it . 
He has inherited two estates . 
He's a good looking fellow , she mused . 
Is he married ? There you go again , replied her husband , shaking his forefinger at her in mock reproach . 
To a woman with marriageable daughters all roads lead to matrimony , the centre of a woman's universe . 
All men must be sized up by their matrimonial availability . 
No , he isn't married . 
That's nice , she rejoined reflectively . 
Come to think of it , said the lady , I'm afraid we wouldn't have the room to spare , and the girls would hardly have time to entertain him . 
But we'll have him up several times . 
I wish you had sent me word he was coming I'd have had a better luncheon . 
Make him a salad , rejoined the doctor , and get out a bottle of the best claret . 
Indeed , he would not , Ed , the idea ! I'm ashamed of you . 
Hurry back to the parlor and talk to him . 
The girls may want to primp a little before luncheon we don't have a young man every day . 
Beauty unadorned , replied the doctor , is adorned the most . 
My profession qualifies me to speak upon the subject . 
They are the two handsomest young women in Patesville , and the daughters of the most beautiful Don't you dare to say the word , interrupted Mrs. Green , with placid good nature . 
I shall never grow old while I am living with a big boy like you . 
But I must go and make the salad . 
At dinner the conversation ran on the family connections and their varying fortunes in the late war . 
Few had anything left but land , and land without slaves to work it was a drug in the market . 
I was offered a thousand acres , the other day , at twenty five cents an acre , remarked the doctor . 
The owner is so land poor that he can't pay the taxes . 
They have taken our negroes and our liberties . 
It may be better for our grandchildren that the negroes are free , but it's confoundedly hard on us to take them without paying for them . 
They may exalt our slaves over us temporarily , but they have not broken our spirit , and cannot take away our superiority of blood and breeding . 
In time we shall regain control . 
The negro is an inferior creature God has marked him with the badge of servitude , and has adjusted his intellect to a servile condition . 
We will not long submit to his domination . 
We will join you , they replied . 
The toast was drunk with great enthusiasm . 
A good , strong old English name , observed the doctor . 
The heroine of Ivanhoe' ! exclaimed Miss Harriet . 
Warwick the Kingmaker ! said Miss Mary . 
Is she tall and fair , and dignified and stately ? She is tall , dark rather than fair , and full of tender grace and sweet humility . 
She should have been named Rebecca instead of Rowena , rejoined Miss Mary , who was well up in her Scott . 
Tell us something about her people , asked Mrs. Green , to which inquiry the young ladies looked assent . 
In this meeting of the elect of his own class and kin Warwick felt a certain strong illumination upon the value of birth and blood . 
Finding Rena among people of the best social standing , the subsequent intimation that she was a girl of no family had seemed a small matter to one so much in love . 
Nevertheless , in his present company he felt a decided satisfaction in being able to present for his future wife a clean bill of social health . 
Her brother is the most prominent lawyer of Clarence . 
They live in a fine old family mansion , and are among the best people of the town . 
Quite right , my boy , assented the doctor . 
None but the best are good enough for the best . 
You must bring her to Patesville some day . 
But bless my life ! he exclaimed , looking at his watch , I must be going . 
Will you stay with the ladies awhile , or go back down town with me ? I think I had better go with you , sir . 
I shall have to see Judge Straight . 
But you must come back to supper , and we'll have a few friends in to meet you . 
You must see some of the best people . 
The doctor's buggy was waiting at the gate . 
As they were passing the hotel on their drive down town , the clerk came out to the curbstone and called to the doctor . 
There's a man here , doctor , who's been taken suddenly ill . 
Can you come in a minute ? I suppose I'll have to . 
Will you wait for me here , George , or will you drive down to the office ? I can walk the rest of the way . 
I think I'll wait here , doctor , answered Tryon . 
I'll step up to my room a moment . 
I'll be back by the time you're ready . 
Tryon went up to his room , returned after a while , and resumed his seat in the buggy , where he waited fifteen minutes longer before the doctor was ready . 
Anything wanted , Dave ? asked the doctor . 
Dat young 'oman's be'n heah ag'in , suh , an' wants ter see you bad . 
She's in de drugstore dere now , suh . 
Bless Gawd ! he added to himself fervently , I 'membered dat . 
Dis yer recommemb'ance er mine is gwine ter git me inter trouble ef I don' look out , an' dat's a fac' , sho' . 
The doctor sprang from the buggy with an agility remarkable in a man of sixty . 
Just keep your seat , George , he said to Tryon , until I have spoken to the young woman , and then we'll go across to Straight's . 
Or , if you'll drive along a little farther , you can see the girl through the window . 
She's worth the trouble , if you like a pretty face . 
Tryon liked one pretty face moreover , tinted beauty had never appealed to him . 
Between the colored glass bottles in the window he could see a young woman , a tall and slender girl , like a lily on its stem . 
She stood talking with the doctor , who held his hat in his hand with as much deference as though she were the proudest dame in town . 
Her face was partly turned away from the window , but as Tryon's eye fell upon her , he gave a great start . 
Surely , no two women could be so much alike . 
She moved slightly it was Rena's movement . 
Surely he knew the gown , and the style of hair dressing ! She rested her hand lightly on the back of a chair . 
The ring that glittered on her finger could be none other than his own . 
The girl nodded in response , and , turning , left the store . 
Tryon leaned forward from the buggy seat and kept his eye fixed on the figure that moved across the floor of the drugstore . 
As she came out , she turned her face casually toward the buggy , and there could no longer be any doubt as to her identity . 
She stood a moment as if turned to stone . 
One appealing glance she gave , a look that might have softened adamant . 
XVI THE BOTTOM FALLS OUT The first effect of Tryon's discovery was , figuratively speaking , to knock the bottom out of things for him . 
It was much as if a boat on which he had been floating smoothly down the stream of pleasure had sunk suddenly and left him struggling in deep waters . 
The full realization of the truth , which followed speedily , had for the moment reversed his mental attitude toward her , and love and yearning had given place to anger and disgust . 
His agitation could hardly have escaped notice had not the doctor's attention , and that of the crowd that quickly gathered , been absorbed by the young woman who had fallen . 
When Rena had been taken home , he slipped away for a long walk , after which he called at Judge Straight's office and received the judge's report upon the matter presented . 
Judge Straight had found the claim , in his opinion , a good one he had discovered property from which , in case the claim were allowed , the amount might be realized . 
The judge , who had already been informed of the incident at the drugstore , observed Tryon's preoccupation and guessed shrewdly at its cause , but gave no sign . 
Tryon left the matter of the note unreservedly in the lawyer's hands , with instructions to communicate to him any further developments . 
Returning to the doctor's office , Tryon listened to that genial gentleman's comments on the accident , his own concern in which he , by a great effort , was able to conceal . 
The doctor insisted upon his returning to the Hill for supper . 
The doctor was solicitous , felt his pulse , examined his tongue , pronounced him feverish , and prescribed a sedative . 
Tryon sought refuge in his room at the hotel , from which he did not emerge again until morning . 
His emotions were varied and stormy . 
At first he could see nothing but the fraud of which he had been made the victim . 
A negro girl had been foisted upon him for a white woman , and he had almost committed the unpardonable sin against his race of marrying her . 
The very thought was an insult to the white people of the South . 
But reasoning thus was not without effect upon a mind by nature reasonable above the average . 
Tryon's race impulse and social prejudice had carried him too far , and the swing of the mental pendulum brought his thoughts rapidly back in the opposite direction . 
Tossing uneasily on the bed , where he had thrown himself down without undressing , the air of the room oppressed him , and he threw open the window . 
The cool night air calmed his throbbing pulses . 
He burst into tears , bitter tears , that strained his heartstrings . 
He was only a youth . 
She was his first love , and he had lost her forever . 
Lost she was , as though she had never been , as she had indeed had no right to be . 
He resolutely determined to banish her image from his mind . 
See her again he could not it would be painful to them both it could be productive of no good to either . 
He was not influenced by sordid considerations he would have denied that his course was controlled by any narrow prudence . 
, he would have braved any danger for her sake . 
Had she been merely of illegitimate birth , he would have overlooked the bar sinister . 
But the one objection which he could not overlook was , unhappily , the one that applied to the only woman who had as yet moved his heart . 
He tried to be angry with her , but after the first hour he found it impossible . 
The clock struck the hour of two . 
With a shiver he closed the window , undressed by the moonlight , drew down the shade , and went to bed . 
He fell into an unquiet slumber , and dreamed again of Rena . 
He must learn to control his waking thoughts his dreams could not be curbed . 
In that realm Rena's image was for many a day to remain supreme . 
He dreamed of her sweet smile , her soft touch , her gentle voice . 
In all her fair young beauty she stood before him , and then by some hellish magic she was slowly transformed into a hideous black hag . 
With a shudder he awoke , to find the cold gray dawn of a rainy day stealing through the window . 
A second shared the same fate . 
Giving up the task , he left the hotel and walked down to Dr . 
Is the doctor in ? he asked of the colored attendant . 
No , suh , replied the man he's gone ter see de young cullud gal w'at fainted w'en de doctah was wid you yistiddy . 
Tryon sat down at the doctor's desk and hastily scrawled a note , stating that business compelled his immediate departure . 
He thanked the doctor for courtesies extended , and left his regards for the ladies . 
to the hotel , he paid his bill and took a hack for the wharf , from which a boat was due to leave at nine o'clock . 
As the hack drove down Front Street , Tryon noted idly the houses that lined the street . 
Before the gate stood a horse and buggy , which Tryon thought he recognized as Dr . 
He leaned forward and addressed the driver . 
Can you tell me who lives there ? Tryon asked , pointing to the house . 
A callud 'oman , suh , the man replied , touching his hat . 
Mis' Molly Walden an' her daughter Rena . 
The delay pointed to disaster . 
Bad news being expected , delay at least put off the evil day . 
At the end of the week he received two letters , one addressed in his own hand writing and postmarked Patesville , N. C. the other in the handwriting of George Tryon . 
He opened the Patesville letter , which ran as follows MY DEAR SON , Frank is writing this letter for me . 
I am not well , but , thank the Lord , I am better than I was . 
Rena has had a heap of trouble on account of me and my sickness . 
Frank knows all about it , and so I am having him write this letter for me , as Rena is not well enough yet . 
Frank has been very good to me and to Rena . 
Frank is the best friend I have got in town , because he does so much for me and don't want nothing in return . 
Green sent her home in his buggy and come down to see her . 
I am writing you this letter because I know you will be worrying about Rena not coming back . 
If it wasn't for Frank , I hardly know how I could write to you . 
Green won't say nothing about it , because Frank says Dr . 
All the rest of the connection are well . 
I have just been in to see how Rena is . 
She bust out crying while she was talking , but I reckon that is better than being out of her head . 
I hope this may find you well , and that this man of Rena's won't say nor do nothing down there to hurt you . 
He has not wrote to Rena nor sent her no word . 
I reckon he is very mad . 
Your affectionate mother , MARY WALDEN . 
This letter , while confirming Warwick's fears , relieved his suspense . 
I might with justice reproach you for trifling with the most sacred feelings of a man's heart but I realize the hardship of your position and hers , and can make allowances . 
I regret that she should be distressed or disappointed , she has not suffered alone . 
I need scarcely assure you that I shall say nothing about this affair , and that I shall keep your secret as though it were my own . 
For connected with our kind we must be if not by our virtues , then by our vices , if not by our services , at least by our needs . 
She was a tall woman , straight as an arrow . 
Her complexion in youth was of an old ivory tint , which at the period of this story , time had darkened measurably . 
Her black eyes , now faded , had once sparkled with the fire of youth . 
High cheek bones , straight black hair , and a certain dignified reposefulness of manner pointed to an aboriginal descent . 
Tradition gave her to the negro race . 
Doubtless she had a strain of each , with white blood very visibly predominating over both . 
Molly's free birth carried with it certain advantages , even in the South before the war . 
They were not citizens , yet they were not slaves . 
No negro , save in books , ever refused freedom many of them ran frightful risks to achieve it . 
Mis' Molly's father had been at one time a man of some means . 
Not poverty , but wealth , is the most potent leveler . 
In due time the indorser was called upon to meet the maturing obligation . 
This was the beginning of a series of financial difficulties which speedily involved him in ruin . 
He died prematurely , a disappointed and disheartened man , leaving his family in dire poverty . 
His widow and surviving children lived on for a little while at the house he had owned , just outside of the town , on one of the main traveled roads . 
By the wayside , near the house , there was a famous deep well . 
A gentleman drove by one day , stopped at the well , smiled upon the girl , and said kind words . 
Her mother nevermore knew want . 
Her poor relations could always find a meal in Molly's kitchen . 
She did not flaunt her prosperity in the world's face she hid it discreetly behind the cedar screen . 
Those who wished could know of it , for there were few secrets in Patesville those who chose could as easily ignore it . 
There were few to trouble themselves about the secluded life of an obscure woman of a class which had no recognized place in the social economy . 
She worshiped the ground upon which her lord walked , was humbly grateful for his protection , and quite as faithful as the forbidden marriage vow could possibly have made her . 
She led her life in material peace and comfort , and with a certain amount of dignity . 
For she was free , she had not the slave's excuse . 
Let it be said , in further extenuation , that no other woman lived in neglect or sorrow because of her . 
She robbed no one else . 
For what life gave her she returned an equivalent and what she did not pay , her children settled to the last farthing . 
Several years before the war , when Mis' Molly's daughter Rena was a few years old , death had suddenly removed the source of their prosperity . 
The household was not left entirely destitute . 
Mis' Molly owned her home , and had a store of gold pieces in the chest beneath her bed . 
A small piece of real estate stood in the name of each of the children , the income from which contributed to their maintenance . 
Larger expectations were dependent upon the discovery of a promised will , which never came to light . 
She had eaten of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge . 
Upon the ground floor was a certain pew which could be seen from her seat , where once had sat a gentleman whose pleasures had not interfered with the practice of his religion . 
Now , not only was her king dead , but the shield of his memory protected her no longer . 
Molly had lost one child , and his grave was visible from the kitchen window , under a small clump of cedars in the rear of the two acre lot . 
He soon came to know , however , that there was a difference . 
He was informed one day that he was black . 
He denied the proposition and thrashed the child who made it . 
The scene was repeated the next day , with a variation , he was himself thrashed by a larger boy . 
When he had been beaten five or six times , he ceased to argue the point , though to himself he never admitted the charge . 
Sometimes he read or repeated the simpler stories to his little sister , sitting wide eyed by his side . 
Here , for nearly half a century , Archibald Straight had transacted legal business for the best people of Northumberland County . 
Full many a lawsuit had he won , lost , or settled many a spendthrift had he saved from ruin , and not a few families from disgrace . 
, he was kind and considerate to those beneath him . 
He owned a few domestic servants , no one of whom had ever felt the weight of his hand , and for whose ultimate freedom he had provided in his will . 
In the long drawn out slavery agitation he had taken a keen interest , rather as observer than as participant . 
As the heat of controversy increased , his lack of zeal for the peculiar institution led to his defeat for the bench by a more active partisan . 
It is a singular desire , from a singular source , and expressed in a singular way . 
Who the devil are you , sir , that wish so strange a thing as to become a lawyer everybody's servant ? And everybody's master , sir , replied the lad stoutly . 
But what is your name , Mr. Would be lawyer ? John Walden , sir , answered the lad . 
John Walden ? Walden ? mused the judge . 
What Walden can that be ? Do you belong in town ? Yes , sir . 
Humph ! I can't imagine who you are . 
It's plain that you are a lad of good blood , and yet I don't know whose son you can be . 
What is your father's name ? The lad hesitated , and flushed crimson . 
The old gentleman noted his hesitation . 
It is a wise son , he thought , that knows his own father . 
He is a bright lad , and will have this question put to him more than once . 
I'll see how he will answer it . 
The boy maintained an awkward silence , while the old judge eyed him keenly . 
My father's dead , he said at length , in a low voice . 
I'm Mis' Molly Walden's son . 
As put now by Judge Straight , it made him wince . 
He had not read his father's books for nothing . 
Why not ? responded the boy , trembling a little at the knees , but stoutly holding his ground . 
He wants to be a lawyer , and he asks me why not ! muttered the judge , speaking apparently to himself . 
He rose from his chair , walked across the room , and threw open a window . 
The cool morning air brought with it the babbling of the stream below and the murmur of the mill near by . 
He glanced across the creek to the ruined foundation of an old house on the low ground beyond the creek . 
Turning from the window , he looked back at the boy , who had remained standing between him and the door . 
At that moment another lad came along the street and stopped opposite the open doorway . 
The presence of the two boys in connection with the book he had been reading suggested a comparison . 
The judge knew the lad outside as the son of a leading merchant of the town . 
The youth standing in the judge's office , on the contrary , was straight , shapely , and well grown . 
His eye was clear , and he kept it fixed on the old gentleman with a look in which there was nothing of cringing . 
What struck the judge most forcibly , however , was the lad's resemblance to an old friend and companion and client . 
He recalled a certain conversation with this old friend , who had said to him one day Archie , I'm coming in to have you draw my will . 
There are some children for whom I would like to make ample provision . 
I can't give them anything else , but money will make them free of the world . 
The judge's friend had died suddenly before carrying out this good intention . 
The judge had taken occasion to suggest the existence of these children , and their father's intentions concerning them , to the distant relatives who had inherited his friend's large estate . 
They had chosen to take offense at the suggestion . 
One had thought it in shocking bad taste another considered any mention of such a subject an insult to his cousin's memory . 
Judge Straight's manner indicated some disapproval of their attitude , and the settlement of the estate was placed in other hands than his . 
Sit down , he ordered , pointing to a chair on the other side of the room . 
That he should ask a colored lad to be seated in his presence was of itself enough to stamp the judge as eccentric . 
You want to be a lawyer , he went on , adjusting his spectacles . 
The old lawyer shook his head , and fixed his eyes upon the lad with a slightly quizzical smile . 
he said , and you are not free . 
You cannot travel without your papers you cannot secure accommodations at an inn you could not vote , if you were of age you cannot be out after nine o'clock without a permit . 
If a white man struck you , you could not return the blow , and you could not testify against him in a court of justice . 
You are black , my lad , and you are not free . 
Did you ever hear of the Dred Scott decision , delivered by the great , wise , and learned Judge Taney ? No , sir , answered the boy . 
That is the law of this nation , and that is the reason why you cannot be a lawyer . 
It may all be true , replied the boy , but it don't apply to me . 
A negro is black I am white , and not black . 
Black as ink , my lad , returned the lawyer , shaking his head . 
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin , says the poet . 
Somewhere , sometime , you had a black ancestor . 
One drop of black blood makes the whole man black . 
Why shouldn't it be the other way , if the white blood is so much superior ? inquired the lad . 
Because it is more convenient as it is and more profitable . 
It is not right , maintained the lad . 
Lawyers go by the laws they abide by the accomplished fact to them , whatever is , is right . 
The laws do not permit men of color to practice law , and public sentiment would not allow one of them to study it . 
I had thought , said the lad , that I might pass for white . 
There are white people darker than I am . 
Ah , well , that is another matter but The judge stopped for a moment , struck by the absurdity of his arguing such a question with a mulatto boy . 
He really must be falling into premature dotage . 
The proper thing would be to rebuke the lad for his presumption and advise him to learn to take care of horses , or make boots , or lay bricks . 
But again he saw his old friend in the lad's face , and again he looked in vain for any sign of negro blood . 
The least earmark would have turned the scale , but he could not find it . 
That is another matter , he repeated . 
Here you have started as black , and must remain so . 
But if you wish to move away , and sink your past into oblivion , the case might be different . 
He took down a volume bound in legal calf and glanced through it . 
The color line is drawn in North Carolina at four generations removed from the negro there have been judicial decisions to that effect . 
I imagine that would cover your case . 
But let us see what South Carolina may say about it , he continued , taking another book . 
I think the law is even more liberal there . 
Juries would probably be justified in holding a person to be white in whom the admixture of African blood did not exceed one eighth . 
Then I need not be black ? the boy cried , with sparkling eyes . 
No , replied the lawyer , you need not be black , away from Patesville . 
You might , of course , do the same thing anywhere , as long as no one knew your origin . 
But the matter has been adjudicated there in several cases , and on the whole I think South Carolina is the place for you . 
They're more liberal there , perhaps because they have many more blacks than whites , and would like to lessen the disproportion . 
From this time on , said the boy , I am white . 
Softly , softly , my Caucasian fellow citizen , returned the judge , chuckling with quiet amusement . 
You are white in the abstract , before the law . 
You may cherish the fact in secret , but I would not advise you to proclaim it openly just yet . 
You must wait until you go away to South Carolina . 
And can I learn to be a lawyer , sir ? asked the lad . 
It seems to me that you ought to be reasonably content for one day with what you have learned already . 
You cannot be a lawyer until you are white , in position as well as in theory , nor until you are twenty one years old . 
I need an office boy . 
If you are willing to come into my office , sweep it , keep my books dusted , and stay here when I am out , I do not care . 
To the rest of the town you will be my servant , and still a negro . 
If you choose to read my books when no one is about and be white in your own private opinion , I have no objection . 
When you have made up your mind to go away , perhaps what you have read may help you . 
For two years John Walden openly swept the office and surreptitiously read the law books of old Judge Straight . 
When he was eighteen , he asked his mother for a sum of money , kissed her good by , and went out into the world . 
Nev' min' , sis , he said soothingly . 
Be a good little gal , an' some o' these days I'll come back to see you and bring you somethin' fine . 
In after years , when Mis' Molly was asked what had become of her son , she would reply with sad complacency , He's gone over on the other side . 
As we have seen , he came back ten years later . 
There was no intimate association between the two families . 
Mis' Molly felt herself infinitely superior to Peter and his wife , scarcely less superior than her poor white neighbors felt themselves to Mis' Molly . 
Mis' Molly always meant to be kind , and treated Peter and Nancy with a certain good natured condescension . 
When Frank became old enough to go to work in the cooper shop , Rena , then six or seven , had often gone across to play among the clean white shavings . 
He had rolled up the sleeve and stanched the blood and dried her tears . 
For a long time thereafter her mother kept her away from the shop and was very cold to Frank . 
One day the little girl wandered down to the bank of the old canal . 
It had been raining for several days , and the water was quite deep in the channel . 
The child slipped and fell into the stream . 
From the open window of the cooper shop Frank heard a scream . 
He ran down to the canal and pulled her out , and carried her all wet and dripping to the house . 
From that time he had been restored to favor . 
He had watched the girl grow up to womanhood in the years following the war , and had been sorry when she became too old to play about the shop . 
He never spoke to her of love , indeed , he never thought of his passion in such a light . 
But Frank knew that she did not love him , and had not hoped that she might . 
His was one of those rare souls that can give with small hope of return . 
There are depths of fidelity and devotion in the negro heart that have never been fathomed or fully appreciated . 
Even a dumb brute can be won by kindness . 
XIX GOD MADE US ALL Rena was convalescent from a two weeks' illness when her brother came to see her . 
He arrived at Patesville by an early morning train before the town was awake , and walked unnoticed from the station to his mother's house . 
His meeting with his sister was not without emotion he embraced her tenderly , and Rena became for a few minutes a very Niobe of grief . 
Oh , it was cruel , cruel ! she sobbed . 
I shall never get over it . 
I know it , my dear , replied Warwick soothingly , I know it , and I'm to blame for it . 
If I had never taken you away from here , you would have escaped this painful experience . 
But do not despair all is not lost . 
Tryon will not marry you , as I hoped he might , while I feared the contrary but he is a gentleman , and will be silent . 
Come back and try again . 
I couldn't go through it a second time . 
I managed very well before , when I thought our secret was unknown but now I could never be sure . 
It would be borne on every wind , for aught I knew , and every rustling leaf might whisper it . 
The law , you said , made us white but not the law , nor even love , can conquer prejudice . 
HE spoke of my beauty , my grace , my sweetness ! I looked into his eyes and believed him . 
Little Albert is pining for you , suggested Warwick . 
We could make some explanation that would spare your feelings . 
Ah , do not tempt me , John ! I love the child , and am grieved to leave him . 
I'm grateful , too , John , for what you have done for me . 
I am not sorry that I tried it . 
It opened my eyes , and I would rather die of knowledge than live in ignorance . 
But I could not go through it again , John I am not strong enough . 
I could do you no good I have made you trouble enough already . 
Get a mother for Albert Mrs. Newberry would marry you , secret and all , and would be good to the child . 
Forget me , John , and take care of yourself . 
Your friend has found you out through me he may have told a dozen people . 
You think he will be silent I thought he loved me , and he left me without a word , and with a look that told me how he hated and despised me . 
I would not have believed it even of a white man . 
You do him an injustice , said her brother , producing Tryon's letter . 
He did not get off unscathed . 
He sent you a message . 
She turned her face away , but listened while he read the letter . 
He did not love me , she cried angrily , when he had finished , or he would not have cast me off he would not have looked at me so . 
The law would have let him marry me . 
I seemed as white as he did . 
He might have gone anywhere with me , and no one would have stared at us curiously no one need have known . 
The world is wide there must be some place where a man could live happily with the woman he loved . 
Yes , Rena , there is and the world is wide enough for you to get along without Tryon . 
For a day or two , she went on , I hoped he might come back . 
But his expression in that awful moment grew upon me , haunted me day and night , until I shuddered at the thought that I might ever see him again . 
He looked at me as though I were not even a human being . 
I do not love him any longer , John I would not marry him if I were white , or he were as I am . 
He did not love me or he would have acted differently . 
He might have loved me and have left me he could not have loved me and have looked at me so ! She was weeping hysterically . 
There was little he could say to comfort her . 
Presently she dried her tears . 
Warwick was reluctant to leave her in Patesville . 
Her childish happiness had been that of ignorance she could never be happy there again . 
She had flowered in the sunlight she must not pine away in the shade . 
You may marry a better man than even Tryon . 
No , she replied firmly , I shall never marry any man , and I'll not leave mother again . 
God is against it I'll stay with my own people . 
God has nothing to do with it , retorted Warwick . 
God is too often a convenient stalking horse for human selfishness . 
God made us all , continued Rena dreamily , and for some good purpose , though we may not always see it . 
He made some people white , and strong , and masterful , and heartless . 
He made others black and homely , and poor and weak And a lot of others poor white' and shiftless , smiled Warwick . 
He made us , too , continued Rena , intent upon her own thought , and He must have had a reason for it . 
Perhaps He meant us to bring the others together in his own good time . 
A man may make a new place for himself a woman is born and bound to hers . 
God must have meant me to stay here , or He would not have sent me back . 
I shall accept things as they are . 
Why should I seek the society of people whose friendship and love one little word can turn to scorn ? I was right , John I ought to have told him . 
Suppose he had married me and then had found it out ? To Rena's argument of divine foreordination Warwick attached no weight whatever . 
He had seen God's heel planted for four long years upon the land which had nourished slavery . 
Had God ordained the crime that the punishment might follow ? It would have been easier for Omnipotence to prevent the crime . 
His sworn friend and promised brother in law had thrown him over promptly , upon the discovery of the hidden drop of dark blood . 
The fact that several persons knew his secret had spoiled the fine flavor of perfect security hitherto marking his position . 
But what assurance was there that Frank would always be discreet about the affairs of others ? Judge Straight knew the whole story , and old men are sometimes garrulous . 
Green suspected the secret he had a wife and daughters . 
If old Judge Straight could have known Warwick's thoughts , he would have realized the fulfillment of his prophecy . 
Warwick , who had builded so well for himself , had weakened the structure of his own life by trying to share his good fortune with his sister . 
It will be easier for you , it will not be hard for me I am young , and have means . 
There are no strong ties to bind me to the South . 
I would have a larger outlook elsewhere . 
And what about our mother ? asked Rena . 
It would be necessary to leave her behind , they both perceived clearly enough , unless they were prepared to surrender the advantage of their whiteness and drop back to the lower rank . 
She had no mental resources to supply the place of these she was , moreover , too old to be transplanted she would not fit into Warwick's scheme for a new life . 
I left her once , said Rena , and it brought pain and sorrow to all three of us . 
She is not strong , and I will not leave her here to die alone . 
Don't worry about me , John , I shall do very well . 
He was sincerely sorry to leave his sister , and yet he saw that for the time being her resolution was not to be shaken . 
He must bide his time . 
Perhaps , in a few months , she would tire of the old life . 
His door would be always open to her , and he would charge himself with her future . 
Well , then , he said , concluding the argument , we'll say no more about it for the present . 
I'll write to you later . 
I was afraid that you might not care to go back just now , and so I brought your trunk along with me . 
He gave his mother the baggage check . 
She took it across to Frank , who , during the day , brought the trunk from the depot . 
Mis' Molly offered to pay him for the service , but he would accept nothing . 
Lawd , no , Mis' Molly I did n' hafter go out'n my way ter git dat trunk . 
I had a load er sperrit bairls ter haul ter de still , an' de depot wuz right on my way back . 
It'd be robbin' you ter take pay fer a little thing lack dat . 
My son John's here , said Mis' Molly an' he wants to see you . 
Come into the settin' room . 
We don't want folks to know he's in town but you know all our secrets , an' we can trust you like one er the family . 
I'm glad to see you again , Frank , said Warwick , extending his hand and clasping Frank's warmly . 
You've grown up since I saw you last , but it seems you are still our good friend . 
Our very good friend , interjected Rena . 
Frank threw her a grateful glance . 
Yas , suh , he said , looking Warwick over with a friendly eye , an' you is growed some , too . 
Thank you , Frank , and I want you to understand how much I appreciate How much we all appreciate , corrected Rena . 
Yes , how much we all appreciate , and how grateful we all are for your kindness to mother for so many years . 
I know from her and from my sister how good you've been to them . 
Lawd , suh ! returned Frank deprecatingly , you're makin' a mountain out'n a molehill . 
I ain't done nuthin' ter speak of not half ez much ez I would 'a' done . 
I wuz glad ter do w'at little I could , fer frien'ship's sake . 
We value your friendship , Frank , and we'll not forget it . 
No , Frank , added Rena , we will never forget it , and you shall always be our good friend . 
Frank left the room and crossed the street with swelling heart . 
He would have given his life for Rena . 
A kind word was doubly sweet from her lips no service would be too great to pay for her friendship . 
When Frank went out to the stable next morning to feed his mule , his eyes opened wide with astonishment . 
Hanging on a peg near by was a set of fine new harness , and standing under the adjoining shed , as he perceived , a handsome new cart . 
But , oh my , dat is a fine mule ! I mos' wush I could keep 'im . 
He crossed the road to the house behind the cedars , and found Mis' Molly in the kitchen . 
Mis' Molly , he protested , I ain't done nuthin' ter deserve dat mule . 
W'at little I done fer you wa'n't done fer pay . 
I'd ruther not keep dem things . 
How should I know anything about 'em ? she asked . 
Now , Mis' Molly ! You folks is jes' tryin' ter fool me , an' make me take somethin' fer nuthin' . 
I lef' my ole mule an' kyart an' harness in de stable las' night , an' dis mawnin' dey 're gone , an' new ones in deir place . 
Dat's all foolishness , Mis' Molly , an' I'm gwine ter fetch dat mule right over here an' tell yo' son ter gimme my ole one back . 
My son's gone , she replied , an' I don't know nothin' about yo'r old mule . 
And what would I do with a mule , anyhow ? I ain't got no barn to put him in . 
I suspect you don't care much for us after all , Frank , said Rena reproachfully she had come in while they were talking . 
You meet with a piece of good luck , and you're afraid of it , lest it might have come from us . 
Now , Miss Rena , you oughtn't ter say dat , expostulated Frank , his reluctance yielding immediately . 
I'll keep de mule an' de kyart an' de harness fac' , I'll have ter keep 'em , 'cause I ain't got no others . 
But dey 're gwine ter be yo'n ez much ez mine . 
W'enever you wants anything hauled , er wants yo' lot ploughed , er anything dat's yo' mule , an' I'm yo' man an' yo' mammy's . 
Now dat , remarked Peter , at the breakfast table , when informed of the transaction , is somethin' lack rale w'ite folks . 
No real white person had ever given Peter a mule or a cart . 
He had rendered one of them unpaid service for half a lifetime , and had paid for the other half and some of them owed him substantial sums for work performed . 
But to him that hath shall be given Warwick paid for the mule , and the real white folks got most of the credit . 
It could hardly have failed to occur to so reasonable a man as Tryon that Rena's case could scarcely be unique . 
Family trees not seldom have a crooked branch or , to use a more apposite figure , many a flock has its black sheep . 
Being a man of lively imagination , Tryon soon found himself putting all sorts of hypothetical questions about a matter which he had already definitely determined . 
With an effort he put the whole matter definitely and conclusively aside , as he had done a hundred times already . 
Returning to his home , after an absence of several months in South Carolina , it was quite apparent to his mother's watchful eye that he was in serious trouble . 
He was absent minded , monosyllabic , sighed deeply and often , and could not always conceal the traces of secret tears . 
For Tryon was young , and possessed of a sensitive soul a source of happiness or misery , as the Fates decree . 
To those thus dowered , the heights of rapture are accessible , the abysses of despair yawn threateningly only the dull monotony of contentment is denied . 
Mrs. Tryon vainly sought by every gentle art a woman knows to win her son's confidence . 
What is the matter , George , dear ? she would ask , stroking his hot brow with her small , cool hand as he sat moodily nursing his grief . 
Tell your mother , George . 
Who else could comfort you so well as she ? Oh , it's nothing , mother , nothing at all , he would reply , with a forced attempt at lightness . 
It's only your fond imagination , you best of mothers . 
It was Mrs. Tryon's turn to sigh and shed a clandestine tear . 
A woman less interested than Miss Leary would have perceived that there was something wrong with Tryon . 
A sensitive pride would have driven more than one woman away at the sight of the man of her preference sighing like a furnace for some absent fair one . 
She remained in the house and bided her opportunity . 
If George practically ignored her for a time , she did not throw herself at all in his way . 
She went on a visit to some girls in the neighborhood and remained away a week , hoping that she might be missed . 
Tryon expressed no regret at her departure and no particular satisfaction upon her return . 
If the house was duller in her absence , he was but dimly conscious of the difference . 
He was still fighting a battle in which a susceptible heart and a reasonable mind had locked horns in a well nigh hopeless conflict . 
Reason , common sense , the instinctive ready made judgments of his training and environment , the deep seated prejudices of race and caste , commanded him to dismiss Rena from his thoughts . 
His stubborn heart simply would not let go . 
She had learned to love , and when the love of one man failed her , she turned to humanity , as a stream obstructed in its course overflows the adjacent country . 
Her early training had not directed her thoughts to the darker people with whose fate her own was bound up so closely , but rather away from them . 
She had been taught to despise them because they were not so white as she was , and had been slaves while she was free . 
Where once she had seemed able to escape from them , they were now , it appeared , her inalienable race . 
With her quickened intelligence she could perceive how great was their need and how small their opportunity and with this illumination came the desire to contribute to their help . 
This new born desire to be of service to her rediscovered people was not long without an opportunity for expression . 
There are sordid souls that eat and drink and breed and die , and imagine they have lived . 
But Rena's life since her great awakening had been that of the emotions , and her temperament made of it a continuous life . 
Her successive states of consciousness were not detachable , but united to form a single if not an entirely harmonious whole . 
To her sensitive spirit to day was born of yesterday , to morrow would be but the offspring of to day . 
Rena had gone out , so that the visitor found Mis' Molly alone . 
, that Rena was talkin' 'bout teachin' school . 
I've got a good chance fer her , ef she keers ter take it . 
My cousin Jeff Wain 'rived in town this mo'nin' , f'm 'way down in Sampson County , ter git a teacher fer the nigger school in his deestric' . 
I seed a strange mulatter man , with a bay hoss an' a new buggy , drivin' by here this mo'nin' early , from down to'ds the river , rejoined Mis' Molly . 
He raise' fifty bales er cotton las' year , an' he's be'n ter the legislatur' . 
Is he married ? she inquired with interest ? No , single . 
To Mis' Molly this was news of considerable importance . 
This opportunity , however , meant more than mere employment for her daughter . 
If the mother had not sent the letter announcing her illness and confirming the dream , Rena would not have ruined her promising future by coming to Patesville . 
Her highest ambition , since Rena had grown up , had been to see her married and comfortably settled in life . 
She had no hope that Tryon would come back . 
Rena had declared that she would make no further effort to get away from her people and , furthermore , that she would never marry . 
To this latter statement Mis' Molly secretly attached but little importance . 
That a woman should go single from the cradle to the grave did not accord with her experience in life of the customs of North Carolina . 
She respected a grief she could not entirely fathom , yet did not for a moment believe that Rena would remain unmarried . 
You'd better fetch him roun' to see me , Ma'y B. , she said , an' let's see what he looks like . 
I'm pertic'lar 'bout my gal . 
She says she ain't goin' to marry nobody but of co'se we know that's all foolishness . 
I'll fetch him roun' this evenin' 'bout three o'clock , said the visitor , rising . 
I mus' hurry back now an' keep him comp'ny . 
Tell Rena ter put on her bes' bib an' tucker for Mr. Wain is pertic'lar too , an' I've already be'n braggin' 'bout her looks . 
Mis' Molly's impression of Wain was favorable . 
On his introduction Mr. Wain bowed low , assumed an air of great admiration , and expressed his extreme delight in making the acquaintance of so distinguished looking a lady . 
You're flatt'rin' me , Mr. Wain , returned Mis' Molly , with a gratified smile . 
But you want to meet my daughter befo' you commence th'owin' bokays . 
Excuse my leavin' you I'll go an' fetch her . 
She returned in a moment , followed by Rena . 
Mr. Wain , 'low me to int'oduce you to my daughter Rena . 
Rena , this is Ma'y B. 's cousin on her pappy's side , who's come up from Sampson to git a school teacher . 
Wain stared a moment in genuine astonishment , and then bent himself nearly double , keeping his eyes fixed meanwhile upon Rena's face . 
He had expected to see a pretty yellow girl , but had been prepared for no such radiant vision of beauty as this which now confronted him . 
Does does you mean ter say , Mis' Walden , dat dat dis young lady is yo' own daughter ? he stammered , rallying his forces for action . 
Why not , Mr. Wain ? asked Mis' Molly , bridling with mock resentment . 
Yas , rejoined Mis' Molly , with animation , they ain't many years between us . 
I wuz ruther young myself when she wuz bo'n . 
An' , mo'over , Wain went on , it takes me a minute er so ter git my min' use' ter thinkin' er Mis' Rena as a cullud young lady . 
I mought 'a' seed her a hund'ed times , an' I'd 'a' never dreamt but w'at she wuz a w'ite young lady , f'm one er de bes' families . 
Yas , Mr. Wain , replied Mis' Molly complacently , all three er my child'en wuz white , an' one of 'em has be'n on the other side fer many long years . 
Rena has be'n to school , an' has traveled , an' has had chances better chances than anybody roun' here knows . 
She's jes' de lady I'm lookin' fer , ter teach ou' school , rejoined Wain , with emphasis . 
We jus' got ter have her ter teach ou' school ef we kin git her . 
Rena's interest in the prospect of employment at her chosen work was so great that she paid little attention to Wain's compliments . 
Mis' Molly led Mary B. away to the kitchen on some pretext , and left Rena to entertain the gentleman . 
She questioned him eagerly about the school , and he gave the most glowing accounts of the elegant school house , the bright pupils , and the congenial society of the neighborhood . 
Do you think I'm competent to teach the school ? she asked of the visitor , after stating some of her qualifications . 
You won't have no trouble managin' de child'en , nuther . 
Ef any of 'em gits onruly , jes' call on me fer he'p , an' I'll make 'em walk Spanish . 
I'm chuhman er de school committee , an' I'll lam de hide off'n any scholar dat don' behave . 
You kin trus' me fer dat , sho' ez I'm a settin' here . 
Then , said Rena , I'll undertake it , and do my best . 
I'm sure you'll not be too exacting . 
Yo' bes' , Miss Rena , 'll be de bes' dey is . 
Don' you worry ner fret . 
Dem niggers won't have no other teacher after dey've once laid eyes on you I'll guarantee dat . 
Dere won't be no trouble , not a bit . 
Well , Cousin Molly , said Mary B. to Mis' Molly in the kitchen , how does the plan strike you ? Ef Rena's satisfied , I am , replied Mis' Molly . 
But you'd better say nothin' about ketchin' a beau , or any such foolishness , er else she'd be just as likely not to go nigh Sampson County . 
Befo' Cousin Jeff goes back , confided Mary B. , I'd like ter give 'im a party , but my house is too small . 
I wuz wonderin' , she added tentatively , ef I could n' borry yo' house . 
Shorely , Ma'y B. I'm int'rested in Mr. Wain on Rena's account , an' it's as little as I kin do to let you use my house an' help you git things ready . 
The date of the party was set for Thursday night , as Wain was to leave Patesville on Friday morning , taking with him the new teacher . 
This communication properly required an answer , which might have been made in writing within the compass of ten lines . 
No sooner , however , had Tryon read the letter than he began to perceive reasons why it should be answered in person . 
He set out on his journey on Thursday morning , with this programme very clearly outlined . 
Tryon would not at first have admitted even to himself that Rena's presence in Patesville had any bearing whatever upon his projected visit . 
The matter about which Judge Straight had written might , it was clear , be viewed in several aspects . 
The judge had written him concerning the one of immediate importance . 
It would be much easier to discuss the subject in all its bearings , and clean up the whole matter , in one comprehensive personal interview . 
The importance of this business , then , seemed very urgent for the first few hours of Tryon's journey . 
The old town beyond the distant river , his heart told him clamorously , held the object in all the world to him most dear . 
Memory brought up in vivid detail every moment of his brief and joyous courtship , each tender word , each enchanting smile , every fond caress . 
He lived his past happiness over again down to the moment of that fatal discovery . 
He would confront this reputed mother of his darling and wring the truth from her . 
He was in a state of mind where any sort of a fairy tale would have seemed reasonable . 
At noon he halted at a convenient hamlet , fed and watered his mare , and resumed his journey after an hour's rest . 
At sundown he stopped again , about ten miles from the town , and cared for his now tired beast . 
He knew her capacity , however , and calculated that she could stand the additional ten miles without injury . 
The mare set out with reluctance , but soon settled resignedly down into a steady jog . 
Memory had hitherto assailed Tryon with the vision of past joys . 
As he neared the town , imagination attacked him with still more moving images . 
He had ignored her as completely as though she had never existed . 
That he had been deceived was true . 
In the light of his present feelings they seemed to have been absurdly outspoken . 
He was glad that he had kept his discovery to himself . 
He would hasten to her he would dry her tears with kisses he would express sorrow for his cruelty . 
The tired mare had crossed the bridge and was slowly toiling up Front Street she was near the limit of her endurance , and Tryon did not urge her . 
They might talk the matter over , and if they must part , part at least they would in peace and friendship . 
He knew from a Clarence acquaintance , who had written him a letter , that Rena had not reappeared in that town . 
He would make her white no one beyond the old town would ever know the difference . 
If , perchance , their secret should be disclosed , the world was wide a man of courage and ambition , inspired by love , might make a career anywhere . 
Circumstances made weak men strong men mould circumstances to do their bidding . 
He would not let his darling die of grief , whatever the price must be paid for her salvation . 
She was only a few rods away from him now . 
XXIII THE GUEST OF HONOR The evening of the party arrived . 
The house had been thoroughly cleaned in preparation for the event , and decorated with the choicest treasures of the garden . 
By eight o'clock the guests had gathered . 
They were all mulattoes , all people of mixed blood were called mulattoes in North Carolina . 
There were dark mulattoes and bright mulattoes . 
Mis' Molly's guests were mostly of the bright class , most of them more than half white , and few of them less . 
In Mis' Molly's small circle , straight hair was the only palliative of a dark complexion . 
Many of the guests would not have been casually distinguishable from white people of the poorer class . 
Very few of those present had been slaves . 
When the company had gathered , Mary B. , as mistress of ceremonies , whispered to Uncle Needham , who tapped his violin sharply with the bow . 
Ladies an' gent'emens , take yo' pa'dners fer a Fuhginny reel ! Mr. Wain , as the guest of honor , opened the ball with his hostess . 
He wore a broadcloth coat and trousers , a heavy glittering chain across the spacious front of his white waistcoat , and a large red rose in his buttonhole . 
If his boots were slightly run down at the heel , so trivial a detail passed unnoticed in the general splendor of his attire . 
When the dance began , Wain extended his large , soft hand to Mary B. , yellow , buxom , thirty , with white and even teeth glistening behind her full red lips . 
A younger sister of Mary B. 's was paired with Billy Oxendine , a funny little tailor , a great gossip , and therefore a favorite among the women . 
Two other couples completed the set others were restrained by bashfulness or religious scruples , which did not yield until later in the evening . 
There was a play of sparkling eyes and glancing feet . 
Mary B. danced with the languorous grace of an Eastern odalisque , Mis' Molly with the mincing , hesitating step of one long out of practice . 
This was a golden opportunity for the display in which his soul found delight . 
He introduced variations hitherto unknown to the dance . 
Rena had announced in advance her intention to take no active part in the festivities . 
I don't feel like dancing , mamma I shall never dance again . 
Rena conscientiously did what she thought politeness required . 
She went the round of the guests in the early part of the evening and exchanged greetings with them . 
To several requests for dances she replied that she was not dancing . 
But the occasion suggested painful memories of other and different scenes in which she had lately participated . 
Once or twice these memories were so vivid as almost to overpower her . 
She slipped away from the company , and kept in the background as much as possible without seeming to slight any one . 
The guests as well were dimly conscious of a slight barrier between Mis' Molly's daughter and themselves . 
The time she had spent apart from these friends of her youth had rendered it impossible for her ever to meet them again upon the plane of common interests and common thoughts . 
Miss Rowena Warwick could never again become quite the Rena Walden who had left the house behind the cedars no more than a year and a half before . 
Upon this very difference were based her noble aspirations for usefulness , one must stoop in order that one may lift others . 
Any other young woman present would have been importuned beyond her powers of resistance . 
When supper was announced , somewhat early in the evening , the dancers found seats in the hall or on the front piazza . 
Aunt Zilphy , assisted by Mis' Molly and Mary B. , passed around the refreshments , which consisted of fried chicken , buttered biscuits , pound cake , and eggnog . 
When the first edge of appetite was taken off , the conversation waxed animated . 
I wuz a member er de fus' legislatur' after de wah , Wain was saying . 
When I went up f'm Sampson in de fall , I had to pass th'ough Smithfiel' , I got in town in de afternoon , an' put up at de bes' hotel . 
W'en de session wuz over , I come along back , an' w'en I got ter Smithfiel' , I driv' up ter de same hotel . 
But w'en folks found out dat a nigger had put up here , business drapped right off , an' I've had ter shet up my hotel . 
You oughter be'shamed er yo'se'f fer ruinin' a po' man w'at had n' never done no harm ter you . 
You've done a mean , low lived thing , an' a jes' God'll punish you fer it . 
How good hearted ! How kin' ! murmured the ladies . 
It done credit to yo' feelin's . 
Don't b'lieve a word er dem lies , muttered one young man to another sarcastically . 
He could n' pass fer white , 'less'n it wuz a mighty dark night . 
Upon this glorious evening of his life , Mr. Jefferson Wain had one distinctly hostile critic , of whose presence he was blissfully unconscious . 
Frank Fowler had not been invited to the party , his family did not go with Mary B. 's set . 
Frank was not without a certain honest pride . 
He was sensitive enough , too , not to care to go where he was not wanted . 
He would have curtly refused any such maimed invitation to any other place . 
When Rena was in the room , he had eyes for her only , but when she was absent , he fixed his attention mainly upon Wain . 
With jealous clairvoyance he observed that Wain's eyes followed Rena when she left the room , and lit up when she returned . 
Frank had heard that Rena was going away with this man , and he watched Wain closely , liking him less the longer he looked at him . 
To his fancy , Wain's style and skill were affectation , his good nature mere hypocrisy , and his glance at Rena the eye of the hawk upon his quarry . 
He had heard that Wain was unmarried , and he could not see how , this being so , he could help wishing Rena for a wife . 
Frank would have been content to see her marry a white man , who would have raised her to a plane worthy of her merits . 
In this man's shifty eye he read the liar his wealth and standing were probably as false as his seeming good humor . 
Is that you , Frank ? said a soft voice near at hand . 
He looked up with a joyful thrill . 
Rena was peering intently at him , as if trying to distinguish his features in the darkness . 
It was a bright moonlight night , but Frank stood in the shadow of the piazza . 
Yas 'm , it's me , Miss Rena . 
Yo' mammy said I could come over an' see you all dance . 
You ain' be'n out on de flo' at all , ter night . 
No , Frank , I don't care for dancing . 
I shall not dance to night . 
This answer was pleasing to Frank . 
If he could not hope to dance with her , at least the men inside at least this snake in the grass from down the country should not have that privilege . 
But you must have some supper , Frank , said Rena . 
No , Miss Rena , I don' keer fer nothin' I did n' come over ter eat r'al'y I didn't . 
Nonsense , Frank , there's plenty of it . 
I have no appetite , and you shall have my portion . 
She brought him a slice of cake and a glass of eggnog . 
When Mis' Molly , a minute later , came out upon the piazza , Frank left the yard and walked down the street toward the old canal . 
Rena had spoken softly to him she had fed him with her own dainty hands . 
He might never hope that she would see in him anything but a friend but he loved her , and he would watch over her and protect her , wherever she might be . 
He did not believe that she would ever marry the grinning hypocrite masquerading back there in Mis' Molly's parlor but the man would bear watching . 
Mis' Molly had come to call her daughter into the house . 
Rena , she said , Mr. Wain wants ter know if you won't dance just one dance with him . 
Yas , Rena , pleaded Mary B. , who followed Miss Molly out to the piazza , jes' one dance . 
I don't think you're treatin' my comp'ny jes' right , Cousin Rena . 
You're goin' down there with 'im , added her mother , an' it 'd be just as well to be on friendly terms with 'im . 
Wain himself had followed the women . 
He drew rein at the corner . 
Shocked surprise , a nascent anger , a vague alarm , an insistent curiosity , urged him nearer . 
There was evidently a ball in progress . 
The fiddle was squeaking merrily so a tune that he remembered well , it was associated with one of the most delightful evenings of his life , that of the tournament ball . 
A mellow negro voice was calling with a rhyming accompaniment the figures of a quadrille . 
Tryon , with parted lips and slowly hardening heart , leaned forward from the buggy seat , gripping the rein so tightly that his nails cut into the opposing palm . 
With a muttered curse of concentrated bitterness , Tryon struck the mare a sharp blow with the whip . 
The sensitive creature , spirited even in her great weariness , resented the lash and started off with the bit in her teeth . 
Meantime Rena was passing through a trying ordeal . 
The combination of music and movement brought up the scene with great distinctness . 
Tryon , peering angrily through the cedars , had not been more conscious than she of the external contrast between her partners on this and the former occasion . 
, and the tenderly graceful compliment , couched in the romantic terms of chivalry , with which the knight of the handkerchief had charmed her ear . 
Tryon's stay in Patesville was very brief . 
He drove to the hotel and put up for the night . 
During many sleepless hours his mind was in a turmoil with a very different set of thoughts from those which had occupied it on the way to town . 
Not the least of them was a profound self contempt for his own lack of discernment . 
Tryon was not a devout man , but he thanked God with religious fervor that he had been saved a second time from a mistake which would have wrecked his whole future . 
The black streak would have been sure to come out in some form , sooner or later , if not in the wife , then in her children . 
He saw clearly enough , in this hour of revulsion , that with his temperament and training such a union could never have been happy . 
If all the world had been ignorant of the dark secret , it would always have been in his own thoughts , or at least never far away . 
Happiness under such conditions would have been impossible . 
The prospect , too , of meeting Dr . 
The party broke up at an early hour , since most of the guests were working people , and the travelers were to make an early start next day . 
About nine in the morning , Wain drove round to Mis' Molly's . 
Rena's trunk was strapped behind the buggy , and she set out , in the company of Wain , for her new field of labor . 
The school term was only two months in length , and she did not expect to return until its expiration . 
Just before taking her seat in the buggy , Rena felt a sudden sinking of the heart . 
Oh , mother , she whispered , as they stood wrapped in a close embrace , I'm afraid to leave you . 
I left you once , and it turned out so miserably . 
It'll turn out better this time , honey , replied her mother soothingly . 
Take care of yo'self an' yo'r money , and write to yo'r mammy . 
One kiss all round , and Rena was lifted into the buggy . 
Wain seized the reins , and under his skillful touch the pretty mare began to prance and curvet with restrained impatience . 
Wain could not resist the opportunity to show off before the party , which included Mary B. 's entire family and several other neighbors , who had gathered to see the travelers off . 
Good by ter Patesville ! Good by , folkses all ! he cried , with a wave of his disengaged hand . 
He had not been able to trust himself to bid her farewell . 
He had seen her go away once before with every prospect of happiness , and come back , a dove with a wounded wing , to the old nest behind the cedars . 
She was going away again , with a man whom he disliked and distrusted . 
Long stretches of the highway led through the virgin forest , for miles unbroken by a clearing or sign of human habitation . 
They traveled slowly , with frequent pauses in shady places , for the weather was hot . 
The journey , made leisurely , required more than a day , and might with slight effort be prolonged into two . 
Rena's appearance and manners were the subject of much comment . 
It was necessary to explain to several curious white people that Rena was a woman of color . 
A white woman might have driven with Wain without attracting remark , most white ladies had negro coachmen . 
That a woman of Rena's complexion should eat at a negro's table , or sleep beneath a negro's roof , was a seeming breach of caste which only black blood could excuse . 
The explanation was never questioned . 
No white person of sound mind would ever claim to be a negro . 
They resumed their journey somewhat late in the morning . 
He made little reference to his possessions , concerning which so much had been said at Patesville and this reticence was a point in his favor . 
They were the victims of oppression they were not responsible for its results . 
Toward the end of the second day , while nearing their destination , the travelers passed a large white house standing back from the road at the foot of a lane . 
Around it grew widespreading trees and well kept shrubbery . 
The fences were in good repair . 
Behind the house and across the road stretched extensive fields of cotton and waving corn . 
They had passed no other place that showed such signs of thrift and prosperity . 
Oh , what a lovely place ! exclaimed Rena . 
That is yours , isn't it ? No we ain't got to my house yet , he answered . 
Dat house b'longs ter de riches' people roun' here . 
Dat house is over in de nex' county . 
We're right close to de line now . 
Shortly afterwards they turned off from the main highway they had been pursuing , and struck into a narrower road to the left . 
De main road , explained Wain , goes on to Clinton , 'bout five miles er mo' away . 
Dis one we're turnin' inter now will take us to my place , which is 'bout three miles fu'ther on . 
We'll git dere now in an hour er so . 
Rena was assigned a large room on the second floor . 
She was somewhat surprised at the make up of the household . 
Wain's mother an old woman , much darker than her son kept house for him . 
A sister with two children lived in the house . 
The element of surprise lay in the presence of two small children left by Wain's wife , of whom Rena now heard for the first time . 
He had lost his wife , he informed Rena sadly , a couple of years before . 
Yas , Miss Rena , she sighed , de Lawd give her , an' de Lawd tuck her away . 
Blessed be de name er de Lawd . 
He accompanied this sententious quotation with a wicked look from under his half closed eyelids that Rena did not see . 
The following morning Wain drove her in his buggy over to the county town , where she took the teacher's examination . 
An hour or two later she was given a separate examination , which she passed without difficulty . 
The examiner , a gentleman of local standing , was dimly conscious that she might not have found her exclusion pleasant , and was especially polite . 
You have the satisfaction , he said , of receiving the only first grade certificate issued to day . 
You might teach a higher grade of pupils than you will find at Sandy Run , but let us hope that you may in time raise them to your own level . 
Which I doubt very much , he muttered to himself , as she went away with Wain . 
What a pity that such a woman should be a nigger ! If she were anything to me , though , I should hate to trust her anywhere near that saddle colored scoundrel . 
He's a thoroughly bad lot , and will bear watching . 
Rena , however , was serenely ignorant of any danger from the accommodating Wain . 
Absorbed in her own thoughts and plans , she had not sought to look beneath the surface of his somewhat overdone politeness . 
In a few days she began her work as teacher , and sought to forget in the service of others the dull sorrow that still gnawed at her heart . 
XXVI THE SCHOOLHOUSE IN THE WOODS Blanche Leary , closely observant of Tryon's moods , marked a decided change in his manner after his return from his trip to Patesville . 
The change was characterized by another feature agreeable to both the women Tryon showed decidedly more interest than ever before in Miss Leary's society . 
She was aware that Tryon watched her now and then , with an eye rather critical than indulgent . 
He is comparing me with some other girl , she surmised . 
I seem to stand the test very well . 
Tryon , to his pleased surprise , discovered in her mind depths that he had never suspected . 
She displayed a singular affinity for the tastes that were his he could not , of course , know how carefully she had studied them . 
The old wound , recently reopened , seemed to be healing rapidly , under conditions more conducive than before to perfect recovery . 
No longer , indeed , was he pursued by the picture of Rena discovered and unmasked this he had definitely banished from the realm of sentiment to that of reason . 
The haunting image of Rena loving and beloved , amid the harmonious surroundings of her brother's home , was not so readily displaced . 
Erelong , he fondly believed , the recovery would be so far complete that he could consign to the tomb of pleasant memories even the most thrilling episodes of his ill starred courtship . 
George , said Mrs. Tryon one morning while her son was in this cheerful mood , I'm sending Blanche over to Major McLeod's to do an errand for me . 
Would you mind driving her over ? The road may be rough after the storm last night , and Blanche has an idea that no one drives so well as you . 
Why , yes , mother , I'll be glad to drive Blanche over . 
I want to see the major myself . 
They were soon bowling along between the pines , behind the handsome mare that had carried Tryon so well at the Clarence tournament . 
Presently he drew up sharply . 
A tree has fallen squarely across the road , he exclaimed . 
We shall have to turn back a little way and go around . 
They drove back a quarter of a mile and turned into a by road leading to the right through the woods . 
The solemn silence of the pine forest is soothing or oppressive , according to one's mood . 
Beneath the cool arcade of the tall , overarching trees a deep peace stole over Tryon's heart . 
He had put aside indefinitely and forever an unhappy and impossible love . 
The pretty and affectionate girl beside him would make an ideal wife . 
Of her family and blood he was sure . 
She was his mother's choice , and his mother had set her heart upon their marriage . 
Why not speak to her now , and thus give himself the best possible protection against stray flames of love ? Blanche , he said , looking at her kindly . 
Yes , George ? Her voice was very gentle , and slightly tremulous . 
Could she have divined his thought ? Love is a great clairvoyant . 
Blanche , dear , I A clatter of voices broke upon the stillness of the forest and interrupted Tryon's speech . 
A sudden turn to the left brought the buggy to a little clearing , in the midst of which stood a small log schoolhouse . 
Out of the schoolhouse a swarm of colored children were emerging , the suppressed energy of the school hour finding vent in vocal exercise of various sorts . 
A group had already formed a ring , and were singing with great volume and vigor Miss Jane , she loves sugar an' tea , Miss Jane , she loves candy . 
Miss Jane , she can whirl all around An' kiss her love quite handy . 
De oak grows tall , De pine grows slim , So rise you up , my true love , An' let me come in . 
What a funny little darkey ! exclaimed Miss Leary , pointing to a diminutive lad who was walking on his hands , with his feet balanced in the air . 
Hoddy , Mars Geo'ge ! he exclaimed , bobbing his head and kicking his heel out behind in approved plantation style . 
Wat you callin' dat w'ite man marster fur ? whispered a tall yellow boy to the acrobat addressed as Plato . 
You don' b'long ter him no mo' you're free , an' ain' got sense ernuff ter know it . 
During this little colloquy , Miss Leary had kept her face turned toward the schoolhouse . 
What a pretty girl ! she exclaimed . 
There , she added , as Tryon turned his head toward her , you are too late . 
She has retired into her castle . 
Oh , Plato ! Yas , missis , replied Plato , who was prancing round the buggy in great glee , on the strength of his acquaintance with the white folks . 
Is your teacher white ? No , ma'm , she ain't w'ite she's black . 
She looks lack she's w'ite , but she's black . 
Tryon had not seen the teacher's face , but the incident had jarred the old wound Miss Leary's description of the teacher , together with Plato's characterization , had stirred lightly sleeping memories . 
He was more or less abstracted during the remainder of the drive , and did not recur to the conversation that had been interrupted by coming upon the schoolhouse . 
Miss Leary had missed by a hair's breadth the psychological moment , and felt some resentment toward the little negroes who had interrupted her lover's train of thought . 
Negroes have caused a great deal of trouble among white people . 
How deeply the shadow of the Ethiopian had fallen upon her own happiness , Miss Leary of course could not guess . 
Rena wondered who the lady might be . 
She had a benevolent aspect , however , and came forward to the desk with a smile , not at all embarrassed by the wide eyed inspection of the entire school . 
How do you do ? she said , extending her hand to the teacher . 
I live in the neighborhood and am interested in the colored people a good many of them once belonged to me . 
I heard something of your school , and thought I should like to make your acquaintance . 
It is very kind of you , indeed , murmured Rena respectfully . 
Yes , continued the lady , I am not one of those who sit back and blame their former slaves because they were freed . 
They are free now , it is all decided and settled , and they ought to be taught enough to enable them to make good use of their freedom . 
But really , my dear , you mustn't feel offended if I make a mistake , I am going to ask you something very personal . 
She looked suggestively at the gaping pupils . 
The school may take the morning recess now , announced the teacher . 
The pupils filed out in an orderly manner , most of them stationing themselves about the grounds in such places as would keep the teacher and the white lady in view . 
Very few white persons approved of the colored schools no other white person had ever visited this one . 
Are you really colored ? asked the lady , when the children had withdrawn . 
A year and a half earlier , Rena would have met the question by some display of self consciousness . 
Now , she replied simply and directly . 
Yes , ma'am , I am colored . 
The lady , who had been studying her as closely as good manners would permit , sighed regretfully . 
Well , it's a shame . 
No one would ever think it . 
If you chose to conceal it , no one would ever be the wiser . 
What is your name , child , and where were you brought up ? You must have a romantic history . 
Rena gave her name and a few facts in regard to her past . 
The lady was interested and slightly mystified . 
A generous , impulsive spirit , her son's own mother , she made minute inquiries about the school and the pupils , several of whom she knew by name . 
Rena stated that the two months' term was nearing its end , and that she was training the children in various declamations and dialogues for the exhibition at the close . 
I shall attend it , declared the lady positively . 
I'm sure you are doing a good work , and it's very noble of you to undertake it when you might have a very different future . 
If I can serve you at any time , don't hesitate to call upon me . 
I live in the big white house just before you turn out of the Clinton road to come this way . 
I'm only a widow , but my son George lives with me and has some influence in the neighborhood . 
He drove by here yesterday with the lady he is going to marry . 
It was she who told me about you . 
His mother was a widow Rena had thought , in happier days , that she might be such a kind lady as this . 
She knew , too , that Tryon did not live in Sampson County , though the exact location of his home was not clear to her . 
And where are you staying , my dear ? asked the good lady . 
I'm boarding at Mrs. Wain's , answered Rena . 
Mrs. Wain's ? Yes , they live in the old Campbell place . 
Oh , yes Aunt Nancy . 
She's a good enough woman , but we don't think much of her son Jeff . 
He married my Amanda after the war she used to belong to me , and ought to have known better . 
He abused her most shamefully , and had to be threatened with the law . 
She left him a year or so ago and went away I haven't seen her lately . 
Well , good by , child I'm coming to your exhibition . 
If you ever pass my house , come in and see me . 
The good lady had talked for half an hour , and had brought a ray of sunshine into the teacher's monotonous life , heretofore lighted only by the uncertain lamp of high resolve . 
She had satisfied a pardonable curiosity , and had gone away without mentioning her name . 
Rena saw Plato untying the pony as the lady climbed into the phaeton . 
Who was the lady , Plato ? asked the teacher when the visitor had driven away . 
Dat 'uz my ole mist'iss , ma'm , returned Plato proudly , ole Mis' 'Liza . 
Mis' 'Liza who ? asked Rena . 
I use' ter b'long ter her . 
Dat 'uz her son , my young Mars Geo'ge , w'at driv pas' hyuh yistiddy wid 'is sweetheart . 
XXVIII THE LOST KNIFE Rena had found her task not a difficult one so far as discipline was concerned . 
Her pupils were of a docile race , and school to them had all the charm of novelty . 
Even the devil should have his due , and is not so black as he is painted . 
At the time when she learned that Tryon lived in the neighborhood , Rena had already been subjected for several weeks to a trying ordeal . 
Wain had begun to persecute her with marked attentions . 
She had at first gone to board at his house , or , by courtesy , with his mother . 
He had jocularly offered to come and whip the children for her , and had found it convenient to drop in occasionally , ostensibly to see what progress the work was making . 
Dese child'en , he would observe sonorously , in the presence of the school , oughter be monst'ous glad ter have de chance er settin' under yo' instruction , Miss Rena . 
I'm sho' eve'body in dis neighbo'hood 'preciates de priv'lege er havin' you in ou' mids' . 
Though slightly embarrassing to the teacher , these public demonstrations were endurable so long as they could be regarded as mere official appreciation of her work . 
Sincerely in earnest about her undertaking , she had plunged into it with all the intensity of a serious nature which love had stirred to activity . 
It might have seemed like expecting a man to lift himself by his boot straps . 
But Rena was no philosopher , either sad or cheerful . 
She could not even have replied to this argument , that races must lift themselves , and the most that can be done by others is to give them opportunity and fair play . 
Hers was a simpler reasoning , the logic by which the world is kept going onward and upward when philosophers are at odds and reformers are not forthcoming . 
Her zeal , indeed , for the time being was like that of an early Christian , who was more willing than not to die for his faith . 
Rena had fully and firmly made up her mind to sacrifice her life upon this altar . 
Her absorption in the work had not been without its reward , for thereby she had been able to keep at a distance the spectre of her lost love . 
Her dreams she could not control , but she banished Tryon as far as possible from her waking thoughts . 
When Wain's attentions became obviously personal , Rena's new vestal instinct took alarm , and she began to apprehend his character more clearly . 
She had long ago learned that his pretensions to wealth were a sham . 
He was nominal owner of a large plantation , it is true but the land was worn out , and mortgaged to the limit of its security value . 
His reputed droves of cattle and hogs had dwindled to a mere handful of lean and listless brutes . 
She avoided being alone with him at home by keeping carefully with the women of the house . 
If she were left alone , and they soon showed a tendency to leave her on any pretext whenever Wain came near , she would seek her own room and lock the door . 
She preferred not to offend Wain she was far away from home and in a measure in his power , but she dreaded his compliments and sickened at his smile . 
She was also compelled to hear his relations sing his praises . 
My son Jeff , old Mrs. Wain would say , is de bes' man you ever seed . 
His fus' wife had de easies' time an' de happies' time er ary woman in dis settlement . 
Rena had thought Wain rather harsh with his household , except in her immediate presence . 
His mother and sister seemed more or less afraid of him , and the children often anxious to avoid him . 
One day , he timed his visit to the schoolhouse so as to walk home with Rena through the woods . 
When she became aware of his purpose , she called to one of the children who was loitering behind the others , Wait a minute , Jenny . 
I'm going your way , and you can walk along with me . 
Wain with difficulty hid a scowl behind a smiling front . 
When they had gone a little distance along the road through the woods , he clapped his hand upon his pocket . 
Jinny , chile , run back an' hunt fer my knife , an' I'll give yer five cents ef yer find it . 
Me an' Miss Rena'll walk on slow 'tel you ketches us . 
Rena did not dare to object , though she was afraid to be alone with this man . 
She was evidently in for a declaration of love , which she had taken infinite pains to avoid . 
Just the form it would assume , she could not foresee . 
She was not long left in suspense . 
No sooner was the child well out of sight than Wain threw his arms suddenly about her waist and smilingly attempted to kiss her . 
Speechless with fear and indignation , she tore herself from his grasp with totally unexpected force , and fled incontinently along the forest path . 
But he was heavy and Rena was light , and fear lent wings to her feet . 
For an hour he had even thought it might be better to relinquish his pursuit . 
That he knew or would know of her proximity there could be no possible doubt , since she had freely told his mother her name and her home . 
It was , however , no affair of his . 
Even his mother , a woman of keen discernment and delicate intuitions , had been deceived by this girl's specious exterior . 
Well , he had imagined her just as pure and fine , and she had deliberately , with a negro's low cunning , deceived him into believing that she was a white girl . 
The man who brought the first negro into the British colonies had committed a crime against humanity and a worse crime against his own race . 
The father of this girl had been guilty of a sin against society for which others for which he , George Tryon must pay the penalty . 
As slaves , negroes were tolerable . 
As freemen , they were an excrescence , an alien element incapable of absorption into the body politic of white men . 
Of this state of mind Tryon gave no visible manifestation beyond a certain taciturnity , so much at variance with his recent liveliness that the ladies could not fail to notice it . 
No effort upon the part of either was able to affect his mood , and they both resigned themselves to await his lordship's pleasure to be companionable . 
For a day or two , Tryon sedulously kept away from the neighborhood of the schoolhouse at Sandy Rim . 
He really had business which would have taken him in that direction , but made a detour of five miles rather than go near his abandoned and discredited sweetheart . 
But George Tryon was wisely distrustful of his own impulses . 
Driving one day along the road to Clinton , he overhauled a diminutive black figure trudging along the road , occasionally turning a handspring by way of diversion . 
Hello , Plato , called Tryon , do you want a lift ? Hoddy , Mars Geo'ge . 
Kin I ride wid you ? Jump up . 
Plato mounted into the buggy with the agility to be expected from a lad of his acrobatic accomplishments . 
The two almost immediately fell into conversation upon perhaps the only subject of common interest between them . 
Before the town was reached , Tryon knew , so far as Plato could make it plain , the estimation in which the teacher was held by pupils and parents . 
Does she go to church or anywhere else with Jeff Wain , Plato ? asked Tryon . 
No , suh , she don' go nowhar wid nobody excep'n' ole Elder Johnson er Mis' Johnson , an' de child'en . 
She use' ter stop at Mis' Wain's , but she's stayin' wid Elder Johnson now . 
She alluz makes some er de child'en go home wid er f'm school , said Plato , proud to find in Mars Geo'ge an appreciative listener , sometimes one an' sometimes anudder . 
I's be'n home wid 'er twice , ann it'll be my tu'n ag'in befo' long . 
Plato , remarked Tryon impressively , as they drove into the town , do you think you could keep a secret ? Yas , Mars Geo'ge , ef you says I shill . 
Do you see this fifty cent piece ? Tryon displayed a small piece of paper money , crisp and green in its newness . 
Yas , Mars Geo'ge , replied Plato , fixing his eyes respectfully on the government's promise to pay . 
Fifty cents was a large sum of money . 
His acquaintance with Mars Geo'ge gave him the privilege of looking at money . 
When he grew up , he would be able , in good times , to earn fifty cents a day . 
I am going to give this to you , Plato . 
Plato's eyes opened wide as saucers . 
Me , Mars Geo'ge ? he asked in amazement . 
I'm going to write a letter while I'm in town , and want you to take it . 
Meet me here in half an hour , and I'll give you the letter . 
Meantime , keep your mouth shut . 
Yas , Mars Geo'ge , replied Plato with a grin that distended that organ unduly . 
Tryon placed a letter in Plato's hand , still sticky with molasses candy , he had inclosed it in a second cover by way of protection . 
Tryon was quite aware that by a surreptitious correspondence he ran some risk of compromising Rena . 
But he had felt , as soon as he had indulged his first opportunity to talk of her , an irresistible impulse to see her and speak to her again . 
He might address her by mail , but did not know how often she sent to the nearest post office . 
To meet the teacher alone on the road seemed scarcely feasible , according to Plato's statement . 
A messenger , then , was not only the least of several evils , but really the only practicable way to communicate with Rena . 
He thought he could trust Plato , though miserably aware that he could not trust himself where this girl was concerned . 
From a practical point of view this may seem superfluous , as the matter has been definitely settled . 
In other words , since we must part , I would rather we parted friends than enemies . 
Will you not grant me one interview ? I appreciate the difficulty of arranging it I have found it almost as hard to communicate with you by letter . 
I will suit myself to your convenience and meet you at any time and place you may designate . 
Dear Sir , I have requested your messenger to say that I will answer your letter by mail , which I shall now proceed to do . 
I assure you that I was entirely ignorant of your residence in this neighborhood , or it would have been the last place on earth in which I should have set foot . 
As to our past relations , they were ended by your own act . 
I frankly confess that I deceived you I have paid the penalty , and have no complaint to make . 
I appreciate the delicacy which has made you respect my brother's secret , and thank you for it . 
I remember the whole affair with shame and humiliation , and would willingly forget it . 
As to a future interview , I do not see what good it would do either of us . 
You are white , and you have given me to understand that I am black . 
I beg of you to let me alone . 
The best possible proof you can give me of your good wishes is to relinquish any desire or attempt to see me . 
I shall have finished my work here in a few days . 
I have other troubles , of which you know nothing , and any meeting with you would only add to a burden which is already as much as I can bear . 
To speak of parting is superfluous we have already parted . 
It were idle to dream of a future friendship between people so widely different in station . 
Such a friendship , if possible in itself , would never be tolerated by the lady whom you are to marry , with whom you drove by my schoolhouse the other day . 
No , Mr. Tryon , our romance is ended , and better so . 
We could never have been happy . 
I have found a work in which I may be of service to others who have fewer opportunities than mine have been . 
Yours very truly , ROWENA WALDEN . 
XXX AN UNUSUAL HONOR To Rena's high strung and sensitive nature , already under very great tension from her past experience , the ordeal of the next few days was a severe one . 
On the one hand , Jeff Wain's infatuation had rapidly increased , in view of her speedy departure . 
In the light of this knowledge , Wain's former conduct took on a blacker significance than , upon reflection , she had charitably clothed it with after the first flush of indignation . 
In a week her school would be over , and then she would get Elder Johnson , or some one else than Wain , to take her back to Patesville . 
She had as yet no fear of personal violence from Wain but , under the circumstances , his attentions were an insult . 
He was evidently bent upon conquest , and vain enough to think he might achieve it by virtue of his personal attractions . 
Rena believed that , to defend herself from persecution at his hands , it was only necessary that she never let him find her alone . 
This , however , required constant watchfulness . 
He volunteered to teach a class in the Sunday school which Rena conducted at the colored Methodist church , and when she remained to service , occupied a seat conspicuously near her own . 
The knowledge of Tryon's presence in the vicinity had been almost as much as Rena could bear . 
To it must be added the consciousness that he , too , was pursuing her , to what end she could not tell . 
Now , such an outcome would be impossible . 
Another impassable barrier lay in the fact that his mother had met her , and that she was known in the neighborhood . 
But this heaping up of cares strained her endurance to the breaking point . 
Now her really fine nature rose to the emergency , though she mustered her forces with a great effort . 
If she could keep Wain at his distance and avoid Tryon for three days longer , her school labors would be ended and she might retire in peace and honor . 
After school Plato met an anxious eyed young man in the woods a short distance from the schoolhouse . 
Well , Plato , what news ? I's gwine ter see her home ter morrer , Mars Geo'ge . 
To morrow ! replied Tryon how very fortunate ! I wanted you to go to town to morrow to take an important message for me . 
I'm sorry , Plato you might have earned another dollar . 
To lie is a disgraceful thing , and yet there are times when , to a lover's mind , love dwarfs all ordinary laws . 
Plato scratched his head disconsolately , but suddenly a bright thought struck him . 
Can't I go ter town fer you atter I've seed her home , Mars Geo'ge ? N o , I'm afraid it would be too late , returned Tryon doubtfully . 
Den I'll haf ter ax 'er ter lemme go nex' day , said Plato , with resignation . 
The honor might be postponed or , if necessary , foregone the opportunity to earn a dollar was the chance of a lifetime and must not be allowed to slip . 
No , Plato , rejoined Tryon , shaking his head , I shouldn't want to deprive you of so great a pleasure . 
Tryon was entirely sincere in this characterization of Plato's chance he would have given many a dollar to be sure of Plato's place and Plato's welcome . 
Rena's letter had re inflamed his smouldering passion only opposition was needed to fan it to a white heat . 
He meant her no harm but he must see her . 
He could never marry her now but he must see her . 
He was conscious of a certain relief at the thought that he had not asked Blanche Leary to be his wife . 
He could not marry the other girl , of course , but they must meet again . 
The rest he would leave to Fate , which seemed reluctant to disentangle threads which it had woven so closely . 
I think , Plato , that I see an easier way out of the difficulty . 
Your teacher , I imagine , merely wants some one to see her safely home . 
Plato was proud of the fact that he had once belonged to Mars Geo'ge . 
It would undoubtedly be a great honor for the teacher to be escorted home by Mars Geo'ge . 
The teacher was a great woman , no doubt , and looked white but Mars Geo'ge was the real article . 
Mars Geo'ge had never been known to go with a black woman before , and the teacher would doubtless thank Plato for arranging that so great an honor should fall upon her . 
Mars Geo'ge had given him fifty cents twice , and would now give him a dollar . 
Noble Mars Geo'ge ! Fortunate teacher ! Happy Plato ! Very well , Plato . 
I think we can arrange it so that you can kill the two rabbits at one shot . 
Suppose that we go over the road that she will take to go home . 
They soon arrived at the schoolhouse . 
School had been out an hour , and the clearing was deserted . 
Plato led the way by the road through the woods to a point where , amid somewhat thick underbrush , another path intersected the road they were following . 
Now , Plato , said Tryon , pausing here , this would be a good spot for you to leave the teacher and for me to take your place . 
This path leads to the main road , and will take you to town very quickly . 
As soon as you are gone , I'll come out and tell the teacher that I've sent you away on an errand , and will myself take your place . 
You shall have a dollar , and I'll ask her to let you go home with her the next day . 
But you mustn't say a word about it , Plato , or you won't get the dollar , and I'll not ask the teacher to let you go home with her again . 
All right , Mars Geo'ge , I ain't gwine ter say no mo' d'n ef de cat had my tongue . 
XXXI IN DEEP WATERS Rena was unusually fatigued at the close of her school on Wednesday afternoon . 
She had been troubled all day with a headache , which , beginning with a dull pain , had gradually increased in intensity until every nerve was throbbing like a trip hammer . 
The pupils seemed unusually stupid . 
But when this excitement had gone too far and had neared the limit of exhaustion came Tryon's letter , with the resulting surprise and consternation . 
Rena had keyed herself up to a heroic pitch to answer it but when the inevitable reaction came , she was overwhelmed with a sickening sense of her own weakness . 
The things which in another sphere had constituted her strength and shield were now her undoing , and exposed her to dangers from which they lent her no protection . 
Not only was this her position in theory , but the pursuers were already at her heels . 
Plato , bright eyed and alert , was waiting in the school yard until the teacher should be ready to start . 
He dropped from this reposeful attitude when the teacher appeared at the door , and took his place at her side . 
A premonition of impending trouble caused the teacher to hesitate . 
She wished that she had kept more of the pupils behind . 
Something whispered that danger lurked in the road she customarily followed . 
Plato seemed insignificantly small and weak , and she felt miserably unable to cope with any difficult or untoward situation . 
Plato , she suggested , I think we'll go round the other way to night , if you don't mind . 
Plato was not an untruthful lad , but he seldom had the opportunity to earn a dollar . 
His imagination , spurred on by the instinct of self interest , rose to the emergency . 
I's feared you mought git snake bit gwine roun' dat way , Miss Rena . 
My brer Jim kill't a water moccasin down dere yistiddy 'bout ten feet long . 
Rena had a horror of snakes , with which the swamp by which the other road ran was infested . 
Snakes were a vivid reality her presentiment was probably a mere depression of spirits due to her condition of nervous exhaustion . 
A cloud had come up and threatened rain , and the wind was rising ominously . 
The old way was the shorter she wanted above all things to get to Elder Johnson's and go to bed . 
Perhaps sleep would rest her tired brain she could not imagine herself feeling worse , unless she should break down altogether . 
She plunged into the path and hastened forward so as to reach home before the approaching storm . 
So completely was she absorbed in her own thoughts that she scarcely noticed that Plato himself seemed preoccupied . 
Instead of capering along like a playful kitten or puppy , he walked by her side unusually silent . 
When they had gone a short distance and were approaching a path which intersected their road at something near a right angle , the teacher missed Plato . 
He had dropped behind a moment before now he had disappeared entirely . 
Her vague alarm of a few moments before returned with redoubled force . 
Plato ! she called Plato ! There was no response , save the soughing of the wind through the swaying treetops . 
She stepped hastily forward , wondering if this were some childish prank . 
If so , it was badly timed , and she would let Plato feel the weight of her displeasure . 
Her forward step had brought her to the junction of the two paths , where she paused doubtfully . 
The route she had been following was the most direct way home , but led for quite a distance through the forest , which she did not care to traverse alone . 
The intersecting path would soon take her to the main road , where she might find shelter or company , or both . 
Glancing around again in search of her missing escort , she became aware that a man was approaching her from each of the two paths . 
In one she recognized the eager and excited face of George Tryon , flushed with anticipation of their meeting , and yet grave with uncertainty of his reception . 
Advancing confidently along the other path she saw the face of Jeff Wain , drawn , as she imagined in her anguish , with evil passions which would stop at nothing . 
What should she do ? There was no sign of Plato for aught she could see or hear of him , the earth might have swallowed him up . 
Some deadly serpent might have stung him . 
Some wandering rabbit might have tempted him aside . 
A wiser instinct might have led her forward . 
In the two conflicting dangers she might have found safety . 
The road after all was a public way . 
Any number of persons might meet there accidentally . 
But she saw only the darker side of the situation . 
If , on the other hand , she should go forward to meet Wain , he would undoubtedly offer to accompany her homeward . 
Tryon would inevitably observe the meeting , and suppose it prearranged . 
Not for the world would she have him think so why she should care for his opinion , she did not stop to argue . 
She had run only a few yards when she found herself in the midst of a clump of prickly shrubs and briars . 
Meantime the storm had burst the rain fell in torrents . 
Extricating herself from the thorns , she pressed forward , but instead of coming out upon the road , found herself penetrating deeper and deeper into the forest . 
The storm increased in violence . 
The air grew darker and darker . 
It was near evening , the clouds were dense , the thick woods increased the gloom . 
Suddenly a blinding flash of lightning pierced the darkness , followed by a sharp clap of thunder . 
There was a crash of falling timber . 
Terror stricken , Rena flew forward through the forest , the underbrush growing closer and closer as she advanced . 
Suddenly the earth gave way beneath her feet and she sank into a concealed morass . 
By clasping the trunk of a neighboring sapling she extricated herself with an effort , and realized with a horrible certainty that she was lost in the swamp . 
Turning , she tried to retrace her steps . 
With a wild shriek she turned again , staggered forward a few yards , stumbled over a projecting root , and fell heavily to the earth . 
Wain kept up the chase until the rain drove him to shelter . 
Tryon , after a few minutes , realized that she had fled to escape him , and that to pursue her would be to defeat rather than promote his purpose . 
Wain's house was the last to which he went . 
He had surmised that there was some mystery connected with her leaving Wain's , but had never been given any definite information about the matter . 
In response to his inquiries , Wain expressed surprise , but betrayed a certain self consciousness which did not escape the elder's eye . 
Returning home , he organized a search party from his own family and several near neighbors , and set out with dogs and torches to scour the woods for the missing teacher . 
Strong arms lifted her gently and bore her home . 
Mrs. Johnson undressed her and put her to bed , administering a homely remedy , of which whiskey was the principal ingredient , to counteract the effects of the exposure . 
Rena's illness , however , was more deeply seated than her friends could imagine . 
A tired body , in sympathy with an overwrought brain , had left her peculiarly susceptible to the nervous shock of her forest experience . 
The exposure for several hours in her wet clothing to the damps and miasma of the swamp had brought on an attack of brain fever . 
The next morning , she was delirious . 
One of the children took word to the schoolhouse that the teacher was sick and there would be no school that day . 
It was predicted that she would probably be well in the morning if not , it would then be time to consider seriously the question of sending for a doctor . 
XXXII THE POWER OF LOVE After Tryon's failure to obtain an interview with Rena through Plato's connivance , he decided upon a different course of procedure . 
In a few days her school term would be finished . 
No power on earth should keep him from her long , but he had no desire to interfere in any way with the duty which she owed to others . 
When the school was over and her work completed , then he would have his innings . 
Writing letters was too unsatisfactory a method of communication he must see her face to face . 
Well , Plato , he asked , why are you absent from the classic shades of the academy to day ? Hoddy , Mars Geo'ge . 
W'at wuz dat you say ? Why are you not at school to day ? Ain' got no teacher , Mars Geo'ge . 
Teacher's gone ! Gone ! exclaimed Tryon , with a sudden leap of the heart . 
Gone where ? What do you mean ? Teacher got los' in de swamp , night befo' las' , 'cause Plato wa'n't dere ter show her de way out'n de woods . 
Elder Johnson foun' 'er wid dawgs and tawches , an' fotch her home an' put her ter bed . 
She wuz out'n her haid las' night , an' dis mawnin' she wuz gone . 
Gone where ? Dey don' nobody know whar , suh . 
Leaving Plato abruptly , Tryon hastened down the road toward Elder Johnson's cabin . 
This was no time to stand on punctilio . 
The girl had been lost in the woods in the storm , amid the thunder and lightning and the pouring rain . 
She was sick with fright and exposure , and he was the cause of it all . 
Bribery , corruption , and falsehood had brought punishment in their train , and the innocent had suffered while the guilty escaped . 
He must learn at once what had become of her . 
Reaching Elder Johnson's house , he drew up by the front fence and gave the customary halloa , which summoned a woman to the door . 
Good morning , he said , nodding unconsciously , with the careless politeness of a gentleman to his inferiors . 
I have come to inquire about the sick teacher . 
Why , suh , the woman replied respectfully , she got los' in de woods night befo' las' , an' she wuz out'n her min' most er de time yistiddy . 
Las' night she must 'a' got out er bed an' run away w'en eve'ybody wuz soun' asleep , fer dis mawnin' she wuz gone , an' none er us knows whar she is . 
But Lawd knows dey ain' no tellin' whar she'd go , 'less'n she got her min' back sence she lef' . 
Tryon's mare was in good condition . 
He had money in his pocket and nothing to interfere with his movements . 
No one had met such a traveler . 
When he had gone two or three miles , he drove through a shallow branch that crossed the road . 
The splashing of his horse's hoofs in the water prevented him from hearing a low groan that came from the woods by the roadside . 
He drove on , making inquiries at each farmhouse and of every person whom he encountered . 
The young man answered in the negative , and Tryon pushed forward anxiously . 
At noon he stopped at a farmhouse and swallowed a hasty meal . 
He had spoken to the woman . 
At first she had paid no heed to his question . 
When addressed a second time , she had answered in a rambling and disconnected way , which indicated to his mind that there was something wrong with her . 
Tryon thanked his informant and hastened to the Lillington road . 
Stopping as before to inquire , he followed the woman for several hours , each mile of the distance taking him farther away from Patesville . 
From time to time he heard of the woman . 
Toward nightfall he found her . 
She was white enough , with the sallowness of the sandhill poor white . 
She was still young , perhaps , but poverty and a hard life made her look older than she ought . 
She was not fair , and she was not Rena . 
When Tryon drew near , she tendered him the bottle with tipsy cordiality . 
He turned in disgust and retraced his steps to the Patesville road , which he did not reach until nightfall . 
As it was too dark to prosecute the search with any chance of success , he secured lodging for the night , intending to resume his quest early in the morning . 
XXXIII A MULE AND A CART Frank Fowler's heart was filled with longing for a sight of Rena's face . 
He had sought work in South Carolina with the hope that be might see her . 
He had satisfied this hope , and had tried in vain to do her a service but Fate had been against her her castle of cards had come tumbling down . 
He felt that her sorrow had brought her nearer to him . 
The distance between them depended very much upon their way of looking at things . 
He knew that her experience had dragged her through the valley of humiliation . 
His unselfish devotion had reacted to refine and elevate his own spirit . 
When he heard the suggestion , after her second departure , that she might marry Wain , he could not but compare himself with this new aspirant . 
He , Frank , was a man , an honest man a better man than the shifty scoundrel with whom she had ridden away . 
She was but a woman , the best and sweetest and loveliest of all women , but yet a woman . 
After a few short years of happiness or sorrow , little of joy , perhaps , and much of sadness , which had begun already , they would both be food for worms . 
White people , with a deeper wisdom perhaps than they used in their own case , regarded Rena and himself as very much alike . 
He often stepped across the street to talk to Mis' Molly about her . 
He's crazy to git her , an' it all lays in her own han's . 
Frank did not find this news reassuring . 
He believed that Wain was a liar and a scoundrel . 
He had nothing more than his intuitions upon which to found this belief , but it was none the less firm . 
If his estimate of the man's character were correct , then his wealth might be a fiction , pure and simple . 
Oh , Jeff Wain ! returned the countryman slightingly yas , I knows 'im , an' don' know no good of 'im . 
Had a wife , when I wuz dere , an' beat her an' 'bused her so she had ter run away . 
Wain had passed in the town as a single man , and Frank had had no hint that he had ever been married . 
There was something wrong somewhere . 
Frank determined that he would find out the truth and , if possible , do something to protect Rena against the obviously evil designs of the man who had taken her away . 
The barrel factory had so affected the cooper's trade that Peter and Frank had turned their attention more or less to the manufacture of small woodenware for domestic use . 
Frank's mule was eating off its own head , as the saying goes . 
In a few days Frank had his stock prepared , and set out on the road to Sampson County . 
He went about thirty miles the first day , and camped by the roadside for the night , resuming the journey at dawn . 
From a neighboring tree a silver throated mocking bird poured out a flood of riotous melody . 
A group of minnows startled by the splashing of the mule's feet , darted away into the shadow of the thicket , their quick passage leaving the amber water filled with laughing light . 
His reverie was broken by a slight noise from the thicket at his left . 
I wonder who dat is ? he muttered . 
It soun's mighty quare , ter say de leas' . 
He listened intently for a moment , but heard nothing further . 
It must 'a' be'n a rabbit er somethin' scamp'in' th'ough de woods . 
G'long dere , Caesar ! As the mule stepped forward , the sound was repeated . 
This time it was distinctly audible , the long , low moan of some one in sickness or distress . 
Dat ain't no rabbit , said Frank to himself . 
Stan' here , Caesar , till I look inter dis matter . 
Pulling out from the branch , Frank sprang from the saddle and pushed his way cautiously through the outer edge of the thicket . 
While he hesitated , the figure moved restlessly , and a voice murmured Mamma , oh , mamma ! The voice thrilled Frank like an electric shock . 
Trembling in every limb , he sprang forward toward the prostrate figure . 
The woman turned her head , and he saw that it was Rena . 
Her gown was torn and dusty , and fringed with burs and briars . 
Frank knelt by her side and lifted her head on his arm . 
He put his hand upon her brow it was burning with fever . 
Miss Rena ! Rena ! don't you know me ? She turned her wild eyes on him suddenly . 
Yes , I know you , Jeff Wain . 
Go away from me ! Go away ! Her voice rose to a scream she struggled in his grasp and struck at him fiercely with her clenched fists . 
Her sleeve fell back and disclosed the white scar made by his own hand so many years before . 
You're a wicked man , she panted . 
Don't touch me ! I hate you and despise you ! Frank could only surmise how she had come here , in such a condition . 
When she spoke of Wain in this manner , he drew his own conclusions . 
Some deadly villainy of Wain's had brought her to this pass . 
Anger stirred his nature to the depths , and found vent in curses on the author of Rena's misfortunes . 
Damn him ! he groaned . 
I'll have his heart's blood fer dis , ter de las' drop ! Rena now laughed and put up her arms appealingly . 
Frank knelt by her side , his faithful heart breaking with pity , great tears rolling untouched down his dusky cheeks . 
Oh , my honey , my darlin' , he sobbed , Frank loves you better 'n all de worl' . 
Meantime the sun shone on as brightly as before , the mocking bird sang yet more joyously . 
A gentle breeze sprang up and wafted the odor of bay and jessamine past them on its wings . 
The grand triumphal sweep of nature's onward march recked nothing of life's little tragedies . 
He then pitched the cartload of tubs , buckets , and piggins out into the road , and gathering dried leaves and pine straw , spread them in the bottom of the cart . 
He stooped , lifted her frail form in his arms , and laid it on the leafy bed . 
Cutting a couple of hickory withes , he arched them over the cart , and gathering an armful of jessamine quickly wove it into an awning to protect her from the sun . 
She was quieter now , and seemed to fall asleep . 
Hello ! exclaimed the stranger , who've you got there ? A sick woman , suh . 
Why , she's white , as I'm a sinner ! he cried , after a closer inspection . 
Look a here , nigger , what are you doin' with this white woman ? She's not w'ite , boss , she's a bright mulatter . 
Yas , mighty bright , continued the stranger suspiciously . 
Where are you goin' with her ? I'm takin' her ter Patesville , ter her mammy . 
Toward evening Frank heard hounds baying in the distance . 
A fox , weary with running , brush drooping , crossed the road ahead of the cart . 
Presently , the hounds straggled across the road , followed by two or three hunters on horseback , who stopped at sight of the strangely canopied cart . 
They stared at the sick girl and demanded who she was . 
I don't b'lieve she's black at all , declared one , after Frank's brief explanation . 
This nigger has a bad eye , he's up ter some sort of devilment . 
They drew off a little at this . 
I reckon it's all right , said the chief spokesman . 
The hounds were baying clamorously in the distance . 
The hunters followed the sound and disappeared m the woods . 
Frank drove all day and all night , stopping only for brief periods of rest and refreshment . 
At dawn , from the top of the long white hill , he sighted the river bridge below . 
At sunrise he rapped at Mis' Molly's door . 
Upon rising at dawn , Tryon's first step , after a hasty breakfast , was to turn back toward Clinton . 
He had wasted half a day in following the false scent on the Lillington road . 
It seemed , after reflection , unlikely that a woman seriously ill should have been able to walk any considerable distance before her strength gave out . 
In her delirium , too , she might have wandered in a wrong direction , imagining any road to lead to Patesville . 
If she should prove still missing , he would resume the journey to Patesville and continue the search in that direction . 
She had probably not wandered far from the highroad even in delirium she would be likely to avoid the deep woods , with which her illness was associated . 
He had retraced more than half the distance to Clinton when he overtook a covered wagon . 
From a further description of the cart Tryon recognized it as the one he had met the day before . 
The woman could be no other than Rena . 
He turned his mare and set out swiftly on the road to Patesville . 
If anything could have taken more complete possession of George Tryon at twenty three than love successful and triumphant , it was love thwarted and denied . 
Love was the only law . 
There were difficulties they had seemed insuperable , but love would surmount them . 
Sacrifices must be made , but if the world without love would be nothing , then why not give up the world for love ? He would hasten to Patesville . 
He pictured to himself the joy that would light up her face he felt her soft arms around his neck , her tremulous kisses upon his lips . 
If she were ill , his love would woo her back to health , if disappointment and sorrow had contributed to her illness , joy and gladness should lead to her recovery . 
He urged the mare forward if she would but keep up her present pace , he would reach Patesville by nightfall . 
Green had just gone down the garden path to his buggy at the gate . 
Rena wants to see you , Frank , said Mis' Molly , with a sob . 
He walked in softly , reverently , and stood by her bedside . 
She turned her gentle eyes upon him and put out her slender hand , which he took in his own broad palm . 
Frank , she murmured , my good friend my best friend you loved me best of them all . 
The tears rolled untouched down his cheeks . 
I'd 'a' died , fer you , Miss Rena , he said brokenly . 
Between sunset and dark a traveler , seated in a dusty buggy drawn by a tired horse , crossed the long river bridge and drove up Front Street . 
Just as the buggy reached the gate in front of the house behind the cedars , a woman was tying a piece of crape upon the door knob . 
Pale with apprehension , Tryon sat as if petrified , until a tall , side whiskered mulatto came down the garden walk to the front gate . 
Who's dead ? demanded Tryon hoarsely , scarcely recognizing his own voice . 
A young cullud 'oman , sah , answered Homer Pettifoot , touching his hat , Mis' Molly Walden's daughter Rena . 
