The Secret Agent by Joseph Conrad Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Secret Agent CHAPTER I Mr Verloc , going out in the morning , left his shop nominally in charge of his brother in law . 
It could be done , because there was very little business at any time , and practically none at all before the evening . 
Mr Verloc cared but little about his ostensible business . 
And , moreover , his wife was in charge of his brother in law . 
The shop was small , and so was the house . 
It was one of those grimy brick houses which existed in large quantities before the era of reconstruction dawned upon London . 
The shop was a square box of a place , with the front glazed in small panes . 
In the daytime the door remained closed in the evening it stood discreetly but suspiciously ajar . 
And the two gas jets inside the panes were always turned low , either for economy's sake or for the sake of the customers . 
And the legs inside them did not , as a general rule , seem of much account either . 
With their hands plunged deep in the side pockets of their coats , they dodged in sideways , one shoulder first , as if afraid to start the bell going . 
The bell , hung on the door by means of a curved ribbon of steel , was difficult to circumvent . 
It was hopelessly cracked but of an evening , at the slightest provocation , it clattered behind the customer with impudent virulence . 
It clattered and at that signal , through the dusty glass door behind the painted deal counter , Mr Verloc would issue hastily from the parlour at the back . 
His eyes were naturally heavy he had an air of having wallowed , fully dressed , all day on an unmade bed . 
Another man would have felt such an appearance a distinct disadvantage . 
In a commercial transaction of the retail order much depends on the seller's engaging and amiable aspect . 
But Mr Verloc knew his business , and remained undisturbed by any sort of aesthetic doubt about his appearance . 
Now and then it happened that one of the faded , yellow dancing girls would get sold to an amateur , as though she had been alive and young . 
Sometimes it was Mrs Verloc who would appear at the call of the cracked bell . 
Winnie Verloc was a young woman with a full bust , in a tight bodice , and with broad hips . 
Her hair was very tidy . 
Steady eyed like her husband , she preserved an air of unfathomable indifference behind the rampart of the counter . 
, which , once outside , he would drop stealthily into the gutter . 
Neither his spiritual , nor his mental , nor his physical needs were of the kind to take him much abroad . 
He found at home the ease of his body and the peace of his conscience , together with Mrs Verloc's wifely attentions and Mrs Verloc's mother's deferential regard . 
Winnie's mother was a stout , wheezy woman , with a large brown face . 
She wore a black wig under a white cap . 
Her swollen legs rendered her inactive . 
This topographical fact was of some advantage in advertising her rooms but the patrons of the worthy widow were not exactly of the fashionable kind . 
Such as they were , her daughter Winnie helped to look after them . 
Traces of the French descent which the widow boasted of were apparent in Winnie too . 
They were apparent in the extremely neat and artistic arrangement of her glossy dark hair . 
It must be that Mr Verloc was susceptible to these fascinations . 
Mr Verloc was an intermittent patron . 
He came and went without any very apparent reason . 
from the Continent , only he arrived unheralded by the Press and his visitations set in with great severity . 
He breakfasted in bed , and remained wallowing there with an air of quiet enjoyment till noon every day and sometimes even to a later hour . 
But when he went out he seemed to experience a great difficulty in finding his way back to his temporary home in the Belgravian square . 
In Winnie's mother's opinion Mr Verloc was a very nice gentleman . 
From her life's experience gathered in various business houses the good woman had taken into her retirement an ideal of gentlemanliness as exhibited by the patrons of private saloon bars . 
Mr Verloc approached that ideal he attained it , in fact . 
Of course , we'll take over your furniture , mother , Winnie had remarked . 
The lodging house was to be given up . 
It seems it would not answer to carry it on . 
It would have been too much trouble for Mr Verloc . 
It would not have been convenient for his other business . 
He stroked the cat , poked the fire , had his lunch served to him there . 
He left its slightly stuffy cosiness with evident reluctance , but , all the same , remained out till the night was far advanced . 
He never offered to take Winnie to theatres , as such a nice gentleman ought to have done . 
His work was in a way political , he told Winnie once . 
She would have , he warned her , to be very nice to his political friends . 
And with her straight , unfathomable glance she answered that she would be so , of course . 
How much more he told her as to his occupation it was impossible for Winnie's mother to discover . 
The married couple took her over with the furniture . 
The mean aspect of the shop surprised her . 
The change from the Belgravian square to the narrow street in Soho affected her legs adversely . 
They became of an enormous size . 
On the other hand , she experienced a complete relief from material cares . 
Her son in law's heavy good nature inspired her with a sense of absolute safety . 
Her daughter's future was obviously assured , and even as to her son Stevie she need have no anxiety . 
She had not been able to conceal from herself that he was a terrible encumbrance , that poor Stevie . 
But in view of Winnie's fondness for her delicate brother , and of Mr Verloc's kind and generous disposition , she felt that the poor boy was pretty safe in this rough world . 
And in her heart of hearts she was not perhaps displeased that the Verlocs had no children . 
As that circumstance seemed perfectly indifferent to Mr Verloc , and as Winnie found an object of quasi maternal affection in her brother , perhaps this was just as well for poor Stevie . 
For he was difficult to dispose of , that boy . 
He was delicate and , in a frail way , good looking too , except for the vacant droop of his lower lip . 
Under our excellent system of compulsory education he had learned to read and write , notwithstanding the unfavourable aspect of the lower lip . 
But as errand boy he did not turn out a great success . 
When led away by a grave and protecting policeman , it would often become apparent that poor Stevie had forgotten his address at least for a time . 
A brusque question caused him to stutter to the point of suffocation . 
When startled by anything perplexing he used to squint horribly . 
and before the natural outbursts of impatience on the part of his father he could always , in his childhood's days , run for protection behind the short skirts of his sister Winnie . 
On the other hand , he might have been suspected of hiding a fund of reckless naughtiness . 
He touched off in quick succession a set of fierce rockets , angry catherine wheels , loudly exploding squibs and the matter might have turned out very serious . 
An awful panic spread through the whole building . 
Wild eyed , choking clerks stampeded through the passages full of smoke , silk hats and elderly business men could be seen rolling independently down the stairs . 
Stevie did not seem to derive any personal gratification from what he had done . 
His motives for this stroke of originality were difficult to discover . 
It was only later on that Winnie obtained from him a misty and confused confession . 
It seems that two other office boys in the building had worked upon his feelings by tales of injustice and oppression till they had wrought his compassion to the pitch of that frenzy . 
But his father's friend , of course , dismissed him summarily as likely to ruin his business . 
After that altruistic exploit Stevie was put to help wash the dishes in the basement kitchen , and to black the boots of the gentlemen patronising the Belgravian mansion . 
There was obviously no future in such work . 
The gentlemen tipped him a shilling now and then . 
Mr Verloc showed himself the most generous of lodgers . 
It appeared that Mr Verloc was ready to take him over together with his wife's mother and with the furniture , which was the whole visible fortune of the family . 
Mr Verloc gathered everything as it came to his broad , good natured breast . 
The furniture was disposed to the best advantage all over the house , but Mrs Verloc's mother was confined to two back rooms on the first floor . 
The luckless Stevie slept in one of them . 
By this time a growth of thin fluffy hair had come to blur , like a golden mist , the sharp line of his small lower jaw . 
He helped his sister with blind love and docility in her household duties . 
Mr Verloc thought that some occupation would be good for him . 
His spare time he occupied by drawing circles with compass and pencil on a piece of paper . 
He applied himself to that pastime with great industry , with his elbows spread out and bowed low over the kitchen table . 
Through the open door of the parlour at the back of the shop Winnie , his sister , glanced at him from time to time with maternal vigilance . 
CHAPTER II Such was the house , the household , and the business Mr Verloc left behind him on his way westward at the hour of half past ten in the morning . 
And a peculiarly London sun against which nothing could be said except that it looked bloodshot glorified all this by its stare . 
It hung at a moderate elevation above Hyde Park Corner with an air of punctual and benign vigilance . 
The very pavement under Mr Verloc's feet had an old gold tinge in that diffused light , in which neither wall , nor tree , nor beast , nor man cast a shadow . 
Mr Verloc was going westward through a town without shadows in an atmosphere of powdered old gold . 
But Mr Verloc was not in the least conscious of having got rusty . 
He surveyed through the park railings the evidences of the town's opulence and luxury with an approving eye . 
All these people had to be protected . 
Protection is the first necessity of opulence and luxury . 
It had to and Mr Verloc would have rubbed his hands with satisfaction had he not been constitutionally averse from every superfluous exertion . 
His idleness was not hygienic , but it suited him very well . 
He was in a manner devoted to it with a sort of inert fanaticism , or perhaps rather with a fanatical inertness . 
He was too lazy even for a mere demagogue , for a workman orator , for a leader of labour . 
It was too much trouble . 
He required a more perfect form of ease or it might have been that he was the victim of a philosophical unbelief in the effectiveness of every human effort . 
Such a form of indolence requires , implies , a certain amount of intelligence . 
His big , prominent eyes were not well adapted to winking . 
They were rather of the sort that closes solemnly in slumber with majestic effect . 
Undemonstrative and burly in a fat pig style , Mr Verloc , without either rubbing his hands with satisfaction or winking sceptically at his thoughts , proceeded on his way . 
He trod the pavement heavily with his shiny boots , and his general get up was that of a well to do mechanic in business for himself . 
He might have been anything from a picture frame maker to a lock smith an employer of labour in a small way . 
But of that last I am not sure , not having carried my investigations so far into the depths . 
For all I know , the expression of these last may be perfectly diabolic . 
What I want to affirm is that Mr Verloc's expression was by no means diabolic . 
Under his hat , worn with a slight backward tilt , his hair had been carefully brushed into respectful sleekness for his business was with an Embassy . 
And Mr Verloc , steady like a rock a soft kind of rock marched now along a street which could with every propriety be described as private . 
In its breadth , emptiness , and extent it had the majesty of inorganic nature , of matter that never dies . 
The only reminder of mortality was a doctor's brougham arrested in august solitude close to the curbstone . 
The polished knockers of the doors gleamed as far as the eye could reach , the clean windows shone with a dark opaque lustre . 
At last , with business like persistency , he reached the Square , and made diagonally for the number . 
for compelling those edifices to return where they belong is one of the mysteries of municipal administration . 
Mr Verloc did not trouble his head about it , his mission in life being the protection of the social mechanism , not its perfectionment or even its criticism . 
It was so early that the porter of the Embassy issued hurriedly out of his lodge still struggling with the left sleeve of his livery coat . 
His waistcoat was red , and he wore knee breeches , but his aspect was flustered . 
Mr Verloc , aware of the rush on his flank , drove it off by simply holding out an envelope stamped with the arms of the Embassy , and passed on . 
He produced the same talisman also to the footman who opened the door , and stood back to let him enter the hall . 
The servant shut the door , and Mr Verloc remained alone . 
He did not take a seat . 
With his hat and stick held in one hand he glanced about , passing his other podgy hand over his uncovered sleek head . 
The person who had entered was holding a batch of papers before his eyes and walked up to the table with a rather mincing step , turning the papers over the while . 
Privy Councillor Wurmt , Chancelier d'Ambassade , was rather short sighted . 
He put on a black framed pince nez upon a blunt and shapeless nose , and seemed struck by Mr Verloc's appearance . 
Under the enormous eyebrows his weak eyes blinked pathetically through the glasses . 
The effect was of unobtrusive deference . 
I have here some of your reports , said the bureaucrat in an unexpectedly soft and weary voice , and pressing the tip of his forefinger on the papers with force . 
He paused and Mr Verloc , who had recognised his own handwriting very well , waited in an almost breathless silence . 
We are not very satisfied with the attitude of the police here , the other continued , with every appearance of mental fatigue . 
The shoulders of Mr Verloc , without actually moving , suggested a shrug . 
And for the first time since he left his home that morning his lips opened . 
Every country has its police , he said philosophically . 
But as the official of the Embassy went on blinking at him steadily he felt constrained to add Allow me to observe that I have no means of action upon the police here . 
What is desired , said the man of papers , is the occurrence of something definite which should stimulate their vigilance . 
The official blinked doubtfully , as if affected by the dim light of the room . 
The vigilance of the police and the severity of the magistrates . 
The general leniency of the judicial procedure here , and the utter absence of all repressive measures , are a scandal to Europe . 
It exists to a dangerous degree . 
My reports for the last twelve months make it sufficiently clear . 
Your reports for the last twelve months , State Councillor Wurmt began in his gentle and dispassionate tone , have been read by me . 
I failed to discover why you wrote them at all . 
A sad silence reigned for a time . 
Mr Verloc seemed to have swallowed his tongue , and the other gazed at the papers on the table fixedly . 
At last he gave them a slight push . 
The state of affairs you expose there is assumed to exist as the first condition of your employment . 
What is required at present is not writing , but the bringing to light of a distinct , significant fact I would almost say of an alarming fact . 
I need not say that all my endeavours shall be directed to that end , Mr Verloc said , with convinced modulations in his conversational husky tone . 
But the sense of being blinked at watchfully behind the blind glitter of these eye glasses on the other side of the table disconcerted him . 
He stopped short with a gesture of absolute devotion . 
The useful , hard working , if obscure member of the Embassy had an air of being impressed by some newly born thought . 
You are very corpulent , he said . 
He stepped back a pace . 
Eh ? What were you pleased to say ? he exclaimed , with husky resentment . 
The Chancelier d'Ambassade entrusted with the conduct of this interview seemed to find it too much for him . 
I think , he said , that you had better see Mr Vladimir . 
Yes , decidedly I think you ought to see Mr Vladimir . 
Be good enough to wait here , he added , and went out with mincing steps . 
At once Mr Verloc passed his hand over his hair . 
A slight perspiration had broken out on his forehead . 
He let the air escape from his pursed up lips like a man blowing at a spoonful of hot soup . 
But when the servant in brown appeared at the door silently , Mr Verloc had not moved an inch from the place he had occupied throughout the interview . 
He had remained motionless , as if feeling himself surrounded by pitfalls . 
He walked along a passage lighted by a lonely gas jet , then up a flight of winding stairs , and through a glazed and cheerful corridor on the first floor . 
The footman threw open a door , and stood aside . 
The feet of Mr Verloc felt a thick carpet . 
Mr Vladimir , First Secretary , had a drawing room reputation as an agreeable and entertaining man . 
He was something of a favourite in society . 
But there was no trace of merriment or perplexity in the way he looked at Mr Verloc . 
You understand French , I suppose ? he said . 
Mr Verloc stated huskily that he did . 
His whole vast bulk had a forward inclination . 
He stood on the carpet in the middle of the room , clutching his hat and stick in one hand the other hung lifelessly by his side . 
He muttered unobtrusively somewhere deep down in his throat something about having done his military service in the French artillery . 
At once , with contemptuous perversity , Mr Vladimir changed the language , and began to speak idiomatic English without the slightest trace of a foreign accent . 
You got off easily , was Mr Vladimir's comment . 
And , anyhow , it served you right for letting yourself get caught . 
How long have you been employed by the Embassy here ? he asked . 
Ever since the time of the late Baron Stott Wartenheim , Mr Verloc answered in subdued tones , and protruding his lips sadly , in sign of sorrow for the deceased diplomat . 
The First Secretary observed this play of physiognomy steadily . 
Well ! What have you got to say for yourself ? he asked sharply . 
Mr Verloc answered with some surprise that he was not aware of having anything special to say . 
Bah ! said that latter . 
What do you mean by getting out of condition like this ? You haven't got even the physique of your profession . 
You a member of a starving proletariat never ! You a desperate socialist or anarchist which is it ? Anarchist , stated Mr Verloc in a deadened tone . 
Bosh ! went on Mr Vladimir , without raising his voice . 
You startled old Wurmt himself . 
You wouldn't deceive an idiot . 
They all are that by the by , but you seem to me simply impossible . 
So you began your connection with us by stealing the French gun designs . 
And you got yourself caught . 
That must have been very disagreeable to our Government . 
You don't seem to be very smart . 
Mr Verloc tried to exculpate himself huskily . 
As I've had occasion to observe before , a fatal infatuation for an unworthy Mr Vladimir raised a large white , plump hand . 
The unlucky attachment of your youth . 
Mr Vladimir's hand clasped the ankle reposing on his knee . 
The sock was of dark blue silk . 
You see , that was not very clever of you . 
Perhaps you are too susceptible . 
Mr Verloc intimated in a throaty , veiled murmur that he was no longer young . 
Oh ! That's a failing which age does not cure , Mr Vladimir remarked , with sinister familiarity . 
But no ! You are too fat for that . 
You could not have come to look like this if you had been at all susceptible . 
I'll tell you what I think is the matter you are a lazy fellow . 
How long have you been drawing pay from this Embassy ? Eleven years , was the answer , after a moment of sulky hesitation . 
I've been charged with several missions to London while His Excellency Baron Stott Wartenheim was still Ambassador in Paris . 
Then by his Excellency's instructions I settled down in London . 
You are ! Are you ? Eh ? A natural born British subject , Mr Verloc said stolidly . 
But my father was French , and so Never mind explaining , interrupted the other . 
I daresay you could have been legally a Marshal of France and a Member of Parliament in England and then , indeed , you would have been of some use to our Embassy . 
This flight of fancy provoked something like a faint smile on Mr Verloc's face . 
Mr Vladimir retained an imperturbable gravity . 
But , as I've said , you are a lazy fellow you don't use your opportunities . 
In the time of Baron Stott Wartenheim we had a lot of soft headed people running this Embassy . 
They caused fellows of your sort to form a false conception of the nature of a secret service fund . 
It is my business to correct this misapprehension by telling you what the secret service is not . 
It is not a philanthropic institution . 
I've had you called here on purpose to tell you this . 
Mr Vladimir observed the forced expression of bewilderment on Verloc's face , and smiled sarcastically . 
I see that you understand me perfectly . 
I daresay you are intelligent enough for your work . 
What we want now is activity activity . 
On repeating this last word Mr Vladimir laid a long white forefinger on the edge of the desk . 
Every trace of huskiness disappeared from Verloc's voice . 
The nape of his gross neck became crimson above the velvet collar of his overcoat . 
His lips quivered before they came widely open . 
The French police had no use for your warning . 
What the devil do you mean ? With a note of proud humility Mr Verloc apologised for forgetting himself . 
His voice , famous for years at open air meetings and at workmen's assemblies in large halls , had contributed , he said , to his reputation of a good and trustworthy comrade . 
It was , therefore , a part of his usefulness . 
It had inspired confidence in his principles . 
I was always put up to speak by the leaders at a critical moment , Mr Verloc declared , with obvious satisfaction . 
There was no uproar above which he could not make himself heard , he added and suddenly he made a demonstration . 
Allow me , he said . 
With lowered forehead , without looking up , swiftly and ponderously he crossed the room to one of the French windows . 
As if giving way to an uncontrollable impulse , he opened it a little . 
Mr Verloc shut the window quietly , and returned to the middle of the room . 
With a voice like that , he said , putting on the husky conversational pedal , I was naturally trusted . 
And I knew what to say , too . 
Mr Vladimir , arranging his cravat , observed him in the glass over the mantelpiece . 
I daresay you have the social revolutionary jargon by heart well enough , he said contemptuously . 
You haven't ever studied Latin have you ? No , growled Mr Verloc . 
You did not expect me to know it . 
I belong to the million . 
Who knows Latin ? Only a few hundred imbeciles who aren't fit to take care of themselves . 
For some thirty seconds longer Mr Vladimir studied in the mirror the fleshy profile , the gross bulk , of the man behind him . 
Then he turned , and advanced into the room with such determination that the very ends of his quaintly old fashioned bow necktie seemed to bristle with unspeakable menaces . 
The movement was so swift and fierce that Mr Verloc , casting an oblique glance , quailed inwardly . 
You dare ! Well , I am going to speak plain English to you . 
We have no use for your voice . 
We don't want a voice . 
We want facts startling facts damn you , he added , with a sort of ferocious discretion , right into Mr Verloc's face . 
Don't you try to come over me with your Hyperborean manners , Mr Verloc defended himself huskily , looking at the carpet . 
At this his interlocutor , smiling mockingly above the bristling bow of his necktie , switched the conversation into French . 
You give yourself for an agent provocateur . 
The proper business of an agent provocateur' is to provoke . 
As far as I can judge from your record kept here , you have done nothing to earn your money for the last three years . 
Nothing ! exclaimed Verloc , stirring not a limb , and not raising his eyes , but with the note of sincere feeling in his tone . 
It is stupid in a general way . 
There is no end to prevention . 
They dislike finality in this country . 
Don't you be too English . 
And in this particular instance , don't be absurd . 
The evil is already here . 
We don't want prevention we want cure . 
He paused , turned to the desk , and turning over some papers lying there , spoke in a changed business like tone , without looking at Mr Verloc . 
You know , of course , of the International Conference assembled in Milan ? Mr Verloc intimated hoarsely that he was in the habit of reading the daily papers . 
To a further question his answer was that , of course , he understood what he read . 
At this Mr Vladimir , smiling faintly at the documents he was still scanning one after another , murmured As long as it is not written in Latin , I suppose . 
Or Chinese , added Mr Verloc stolidly . 
Some of your revolutionary friends' effusions are written in a CHARABIA every bit as incomprehensible as Chinese Mr Vladimir let fall disdainfully a grey sheet of printed matter . 
The Future of the Proletariat . 
It's a society , he explained , standing ponderously by the side of the arm chair , not anarchist in principle , but open to all shades of revolutionary opinion . 
Are you in it ? One of the Vice Presidents , Mr Verloc breathed out heavily and the First Secretary of the Embassy raised his head to look at him . 
Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself , he said incisively . 
Isn't your society capable of anything else but printing this prophetic bosh in blunt type on this filthy paper eh ? Why don't you do something ? Look here . 
I've this matter in hand now , and I tell you plainly that you will have to earn your money . 
The good old Stott Wartenheim times are over . 
No work , no pay . 
Mr Verloc felt a queer sensation of faintness in his stout legs . 
He stepped back one pace , and blew his nose loudly . 
He was , in truth , startled and alarmed . 
The useless fussing of that tiny energetic organism affected unpleasantly this big man threatened in his indolence . 
In the pause Mr Vladimir formulated in his mind a series of disparaging remarks concerning Mr Verloc's face and figure . 
The fellow was unexpectedly vulgar , heavy , and impudently unintelligent . 
He looked uncommonly like a master plumber come to present his bill . 
His Excellency had the social revolution on the brain . 
His prophetic and doleful despatches had been for years the joke of Foreign Offices . 
You ought to venerate the memory of Baron Stott Wartenheim , he exclaimed suddenly . 
The lowered physiognomy of Mr Verloc expressed a sombre and weary annoyance . 
Permit me to observe to you , he said , that I came here because I was summoned by a peremptory letter . 
I have been here only twice before in the last eleven years , and certainly never at eleven in the morning . 
It isn't very wise to call me up like this . 
There is just a chance of being seen . 
And that would be no joke for me . 
Mr Vladimir shrugged his shoulders . 
It would destroy my usefulness , continued the other hotly . 
That's your affair , murmured Mr Vladimir , with soft brutality . 
When you cease to be useful you shall cease to be employed . 
You shall Mr Vladimir , frowning , paused , at a loss for a sufficiently idiomatic expression , and instantly brightened up , with a grin of beautifully white teeth . 
You shall be chucked , he brought out ferociously . 
Mr Verloc , aware of the sensation , raised his head bravely . 
Mr Vladimir bore the look of heavy inquiry with perfect serenity . 
What we want is to administer a tonic to the Conference in Milan , he said airily . 
Its deliberations upon international action for the suppression of political crime don't seem to get anywhere . 
This country is absurd with its sentimental regard for individual liberty . 
It's intolerable to think that all your friends have got only to come over to In that way I have them all under my eye , Mr Verloc interrupted huskily . 
It would be much more to the point to have them all under lock and key . 
England must be brought into line . 
The imbecile bourgeoisie of this country make themselves the accomplices of the very people whose aim is to drive them out of their houses to starve in ditches . 
And they have the political power still , if they only had the sense to use it for their preservation . 
I suppose you agree that the middle classes are stupid ? Mr Verloc agreed hoarsely . 
They are blinded by an idiotic vanity . 
What they want just now is a jolly good scare . 
This is the psychological moment to set your friends to work . 
I have had you called here to develop to you my idea . 
Once Mr Verloc had opened his mouth for a protest , but the raising of a shapely , large white hand arrested him . 
Very soon he became too appalled to even try to protest . 
He listened in a stillness of dread which resembled the immobility of profound attention . 
A series of outrages , Mr Vladimir continued calmly , executed here in this country not only PLANNED here that would not do they would not mind . 
Your friends could set half the Continent on fire without influencing the public opinion here in favour of a universal repressive legislation . 
They will not look outside their backyard here . 
Mr Verloc cleared his throat , but his heart failed him , and he said nothing . 
These outrages need not be especially sanguinary , Mr Vladimir went on , as if delivering a scientific lecture , but they must be sufficiently startling effective . 
Let them be directed against buildings , for instance . 
What is the fetish of the hour that all the bourgeoisie recognise eh , Mr Verloc ? Mr Verloc opened his hands and shrugged his shoulders slightly . 
You are too lazy to think , was Mr Vladimir's comment upon that gesture . 
Pay attention to what I say . 
The fetish of to day is neither royalty nor religion . 
Therefore the palace and the church should be left alone . 
You understand what I mean , Mr Verloc ? The dismay and the scorn of Mr Verloc found vent in an attempt at levity . 
But what of the Embassies ? A series of attacks on the various Embassies , he began but he could not withstand the cold , watchful stare of the First Secretary . 
You can be facetious , I see , the latter observed carelessly . 
It may enliven your oratory at socialistic congresses . 
But this room is no place for it . 
It would be infinitely safer for you to follow carefully what I am saying . 
The sacrosanct fetish of to day is science . 
He was afraid to open his lips lest a groan should escape him . 
This is what you should try for . 
An attempt upon a crowned head or on a president is sensational enough in a way , but not so much as it used to be . 
It has entered into the general conception of the existence of all chiefs of state . 
It's almost conventional especially since so many presidents have been assassinated . 
Now let us take an outrage upon say a church . 
Horrible enough at first sight , no doubt , and yet not so effective as a person of an ordinary mind might think . 
No matter how revolutionary and anarchist in inception , there would be fools enough to give such an outrage the character of a religious manifestation . 
And that would detract from the especial alarming significance we wish to give to the act . 
All this is used up it is no longer instructive as an object lesson in revolutionary anarchism . 
Every newspaper has ready made phrases to explain such manifestations away . 
I am about to give you the philosophy of bomb throwing from my point of view from the point of view you pretend to have been serving for the last eleven years . 
I will try not to talk above your head . 
The sensibilities of the class you are attacking are soon blunted . 
Property seems to them an indestructible thing . 
You can't count upon their emotions either of pity or fear for very long . 
A bomb outrage to have any influence on public opinion now must go beyond the intention of vengeance or terrorism . 
It must be purely destructive . 
It must be that , and only that , beyond the faintest suspicion of any other object . 
You anarchists should make it clear that you are perfectly determined to make a clean sweep of the whole social creation . 
But how to get that appallingly absurd notion into the heads of the middle classes so that there should be no mistake ? That's the question . 
By directing your blows at something outside the ordinary passions of humanity is the answer . 
Of course , there is art . 
A bomb in the National Gallery would make some noise . 
But it would not be serious enough . 
Art has never been their fetish . 
It's like breaking a few back windows in a man's house whereas , if you want to make him really sit up , you must try at least to raise the roof . 
There would be some screaming of course , but from whom ? Artists art critics and such like people of no account . 
Nobody minds what they say . 
But there is learning science . 
Any imbecile that has got an income believes in that . 
He does not know why , but he believes it matters somehow . 
It is the sacrosanct fetish . 
All the damned professors are radicals at heart . 
Let them know that their great panjandrum has got to go too , to make room for the Future of the Proletariat . 
A howl from all these intellectual idiots is bound to help forward the labours of the Milan Conference . 
They will be writing to the papers . 
Their indignation would be above suspicion , no material interests being openly at stake , and it will alarm every selfishness of the class which should be impressed . 
They believe that in some mysterious way science is at the source of their material prosperity . 
And the absurd ferocity of such a demonstration will affect them more profoundly than the mangling of a whole street or theatre full of their own kind . 
To that last they can always say Oh ! it's mere class hate . 
Moreover , I am a civilised man . 
I would never dream of directing you to organise a mere butchery , even if I expected the best results from it . 
But I wouldn't expect from a butchery the result I want . 
Murder is always with us . 
It is almost an institution . 
The demonstration must be against learning science . 
But not every science will do . 
The attack must have all the shocking senselessness of gratuitous blasphemy . 
Since bombs are your means of expression , it would be really telling if one could throw a bomb into pure mathematics . 
I have been trying to educate you I have expounded to you the higher philosophy of your usefulness , and suggested to you some serviceable arguments . 
The practical application of my teaching interests YOU mostly . 
But from the moment I have undertaken to interview you I have also given some attention to the practical aspect of the question . 
And it was in an uneasy doglike growl that he repeated the word Astronomy . 
He had not recovered thoroughly as yet from that state of bewilderment brought about by the effort to follow Mr Vladimir's rapid incisive utterance . 
It had overcome his power of assimilation . 
It had made him angry . 
This anger was complicated by incredulity . 
And suddenly it dawned upon him that all this was an elaborate joke . 
Mr Vladimir exhibited his white teeth in a smile , with dimples on his round , full face posed with a complacent inclination above the bristling bow of his neck tie . 
The favourite of intelligent society women had assumed his drawing room attitude accompanying the delivery of delicate witticisms . 
Sitting well forward , his white hand upraised , he seemed to hold delicately between his thumb and forefinger the subtlety of his suggestion . 
There could be nothing better . 
Such an outrage combines the greatest possible regard for humanity with the most alarming display of ferocious imbecility . 
I defy the ingenuity of journalists to persuade their public that any given member of the proletariat can have a personal grievance against astronomy . 
Starvation itself could hardly be dragged in there eh ? And there are other advantages . 
The whole civilised world has heard of Greenwich . 
The very boot blacks in the basement of Charing Cross Station know something of it . 
Yes , he continued , with a contemptuous smile , the blowing up of the first meridian is bound to raise a howl of execration . 
A difficult business , Mr Verloc mumbled , feeling that this was the only safe thing to say . 
What is the matter ? Haven't you the whole gang under your hand ? The very pick of the basket ? That old terrorist Yundt is here . 
I see him walking about Piccadilly in his green havelock almost every day . 
If you imagine that you are the only one on the secret fund list , you are mistaken . 
This perfectly gratuitous suggestion caused Mr Verloc to shuffle his feet slightly . 
And the whole Lausanne lot eh ? Haven't they been flocking over here at the first hint of the Milan Conference ? This is an absurd country . 
It will cost money , Mr Verloc said , by a sort of instinct . 
That cock won't fight , Mr Vladimir retorted , with an amazingly genuine English accent . 
You'll get your screw every month , and no more till something happens . 
And if nothing happens very soon you won't get even that . 
What's your ostensible occupation ? What are you supposed to live by ? I keep a shop , answered Mr Verloc . 
A shop ! What sort of shop ? Stationery , newspapers . 
My wife Your what ? interrupted Mr Vladimir in his guttural Central Asian tones . 
Mr Verloc raised his husky voice slightly . 
That be damned for a yarn , exclaimed the other in unfeigned astonishment . 
Married ! And you a professed anarchist , too ! What is this confounded nonsense ? But I suppose it's merely a manner of speaking . 
My wife isn't one , Mr Verloc mumbled sulkily . 
Moreover , it's no concern of yours . 
Oh yes , it is , snapped Mr Vladimir . 
I am beginning to be convinced that you are not at all the man for the work you've been employed on . 
Why , you must have discredited yourself completely in your own world by your marriage . 
Couldn't you have managed without ? This is your virtuous attachment eh ? What with one sort of attachment and another you are doing away with your usefulness . 
Mr Verloc , puffing out his cheeks , let the air escape violently , and that was all . 
He had armed himself with patience . 
It was not to be tried much longer . 
The First Secretary became suddenly very curt , detached , final . 
You may go now , he said . 
A dynamite outrage must be provoked . 
I give you a month . 
The sittings of the Conference are suspended . 
Before it reassembles again something must have happened here , or your connection with us ceases . 
He changed the note once more with an unprincipled versatility . 
Think over my philosophy , Mr Mr Verloc , he said , with a sort of chaffing condescension , waving his hand towards the door . 
Go for the first meridian . 
You don't know the middle classes as well as I do . 
Nothing better , and nothing easier , I should think . 
The footman in trousers , appearing suddenly in the corridor , let Mr Verloc another way out and through a small door in the corner of the courtyard . 
The porter standing at the gate ignored his exit completely and Mr Verloc retraced the path of his morning's pilgrimage as if in a dream an angry dream . 
He walked straight behind the counter , and sat down on a wooden chair that stood there . 
No one appeared to disturb his solitude . 
Seeing her husband sitting there shadowy and bulky , with his hat tilted far back on his head , she had at once returned to her stove . 
The theory was that Mr Verloc would have been inexpressibly pained and shocked by any deficiency of cleanliness at meal times . 
Winnie after the death of her father found considerable consolation in the feeling that she need no longer tremble for poor Stevie . 
She could not bear to see the boy hurt . 
As a little girl she had often faced with blazing eyes the irascible licensed victualler in defence of her brother . 
Nothing now in Mrs Verloc's appearance could lead one to suppose that she was capable of a passionate demonstration . 
She finished her dishing up . 
The table was laid in the parlour . 
He got up heavily , and came to his dinner in his overcoat and with his hat on , without uttering a word . 
Only that day Mr Verloc's taciturnity was so obviously thoughtful that the two women were impressed by it . 
They sat silent themselves , keeping a watchful eye on poor Stevie , lest he should break out into one of his fits of loquacity . 
He faced Mr Verloc across the table , and remained very good and quiet , staring vacantly . 
The endeavour to keep him from making himself objectionable in any way to the master of the house put no inconsiderable anxiety into these two women's lives . 
That boy , as they alluded to him softly between themselves , had been a source of that sort of anxiety almost from the very day of his birth . 
Afterwards Stevie had to be kept from making himself a nuisance to the single gentlemen lodgers , who are themselves a queer lot , and are easily aggrieved . 
And there was always the anxiety of his mere existence to face . 
Visions of a workhouse infirmary for her child had haunted the old woman in the basement breakfast room of the decayed Belgravian house . 
If you had not found such a good husband , my dear , she used to say to her daughter , I don't know what would have become of that poor boy . 
Both women admitted to themselves that not much more could be reasonably expected . 
It was enough to earn for Mr Verloc the old woman's reverential gratitude . 
Once , however , she retorted , with a rather grim pertness He'll have to get tired of me first . 
She had never really understood why Winnie had married Mr Verloc . 
It was very sensible of her , and evidently had turned out for the best , but her girl might have naturally hoped to find somebody of a more suitable age . 
He was dependent on his father , it is true but the business was good , and his prospects excellent . 
He took her girl to the theatre on several evenings . 
, that romance came to an abrupt end , and Winnie went about looking very dull . 
But Mr Verloc , turning up providentially to occupy the first floor front bedroom , there had been no more question of the young butcher . 
All idealisation makes life poorer . 
To beautify it is to take away its character of complexity it is to destroy it . 
Leave that to the moralists , my boy . 
History is made by men , but they do not make it in their heads . 
The ideas that are born in their consciousness play an insignificant part in the march of events . 
History is dominated and determined by the tool and the production by the force of economic conditions . 
Capitalism has made socialism , and the laws made by the capitalism for the protection of property are responsible for anarchism . 
No one can tell what form the social organisation may take in the future . 
Then why indulge in prophetic phantasies ? At best they can only interpret the mind of the prophet , and can have no objective value . 
Leave that pastime to the moralists , my boy . 
Michaelis , the ticket of leave apostle , was speaking in an even voice , a voice that wheezed as if deadened and oppressed by the layer of fat on his chest . 
And ever since he had never managed to get his weight down as much as an ounce . 
His martyrdom was continued by forbidding him all access to the healing waters . 
But he was resigned now . 
Yes ! I had the time to think things out a little , he added without emphasis . 
Society has given me plenty of time for meditation . 
The terrorist , as he called himself , was old and bald , with a narrow , snow white wisp of a goatee hanging limply from his chin . 
An extraordinary expression of underhand malevolence survived in his extinguished eyes . 
When he rose painfully the thrusting forward of a skinny groping hand deformed by gouty swellings suggested the effort of a moribund murderer summoning all his remaining strength for a last stab . 
He leaned on a thick stick , which trembled under his other hand . 
No pity for anything on earth , including themselves , and death enlisted for good and all in the service of humanity that's what I would have liked to see . 
His little bald head quivered , imparting a comical vibration to the wisp of white goatee . 
His enunciation would have been almost totally unintelligible to a stranger . 
Mr Verloc , established in the corner of the sofa at the other end of the room , emitted two hearty grunts of assent . 
The old terrorist turned slowly his head on his skinny neck from side to side . 
And I could never get as many as three such men together . 
He a pessimist ! Preposterous ! He cried out that the charge was outrageous . 
He was so far from pessimism that he saw already the end of all private property coming along logically , unavoidably , by the mere development of its inherent viciousness . 
The possessors of property had not only to face the awakened proletariat , but they had also to fight amongst themselves . 
Struggle , warfare , was the condition of private ownership . 
Not he ! Cold reason , he boasted , was the basis of his optimism . 
Before him , Karl Yundt remained standing , one wing of his faded greenish havelock thrown back cavalierly over his shoulder . 
A bush of crinkly yellow hair topped his red , freckled face , with a flattened nose and prominent mouth cast in the rough mould of the negro type . 
His almond shaped eyes leered languidly over the high cheek bones . 
Michaelis pursued his idea THE idea of his solitary reclusion the thought vouchsafed to his captivity and growing like a faith revealed in visions . 
He closed them slowly for a moment , as if to collect his routed thoughts . 
A silence fell but what with the two gas jets over the table and the glowing grate the little parlour behind Mr Verloc's shop had become frightfully hot . 
Mr Verloc , after a grunt of disapproving surprise , returned to the sofa . 
to look over Stevie's shoulder . 
He came back , pronouncing oracularly Very good . 
Very characteristic , perfectly typical . 
What's very good ? grunted inquiringly Mr Verloc , settled again in the corner of the sofa . 
The other explained his meaning negligently , with a shade of condescension and a toss of his head towards the kitchen Typical of this form of degeneracy these drawings , I mean . 
You would call that lad a degenerate , would you ? mumbled Mr Verloc . 
That's what he may be called scientifically . 
Very good type too , altogether , of that sort of degenerate . 
It's enough to glance at the lobes of his ears . 
had the curious power of evoking a definitely offensive mental vision of Mr Vladimir , in his body as he lived , with an almost supernatural clearness . 
And this phenomenon , deserving justly to be classed amongst the marvels of science , induced in Mr Verloc an emotional state of dread and exasperation tending to express itself in violent swearing . 
It was Karl Yundt who was heard , implacable to his last breath . 
Comrade Ossipon met the shock of this blasphemy by an awful , vacant stare . 
Simple , is it not ? What about those who shut him up there forced him in there ? Exactly . 
The knob of his stick and his legs shook together with passion , whilst the trunk , draped in the wings of the havelock , preserved his historic attitude of defiance . 
He seemed to sniff the tainted air of social cruelty , to strain his ear for its atrocious sounds . 
There was an extraordinary force of suggestion in this posturing . 
The all but moribund veteran of dynamite wars had been a great actor in his time actor on platforms , in secret assemblies , in private interviews . 
The famous terrorist had never in his life raised personally as much as his little finger against the social edifice . 
He was no man of action he was not even an orator of torrential eloquence , sweeping the masses along in the rushing noise and foam of a great enthusiasm . 
Michaelis , the ticket of leave apostle , smiled vaguely with his glued lips his pasty moon face drooped under the weight of melancholy assent . 
He had been a prisoner himself . 
His own skin had sizzled under the red hot brand , he murmured softly . 
But Comrade Ossipon , nicknamed the Doctor , had got over the shock by that time . 
He gave the discussion up , with a slight shrug of the shoulders . 
Stevie , accustomed to move about disregarded , had got up from the kitchen table , carrying off his drawing to bed with him . 
He had reached the parlour door in time to receive in full the shock of Karl Yundt's eloquent imagery . 
Stevie knew very well that hot iron applied to one's skin hurt very much . 
His scared eyes blazed with indignation it would hurt terribly . 
Michaelis by staring unwinkingly at the fire had regained that sentiment of isolation necessary for the continuity of his thought . 
His optimism had begun to flow from his lips . 
He saw Capitalism doomed in its cradle , born with the poison of the principle of competition in its system . 
Michaelis pronounced the great word Patience and his clear blue glance , raised to the low ceiling of Mr Verloc's parlour , had a character of seraphic trustfulness . 
In the doorway Stevie , calmed , seemed sunk in hebetude . 
Comrade Ossipon's face twitched with exasperation . 
Then it's no use doing anything no use whatever . 
I don't say that , protested Michaelis gently . 
His vision of truth had grown so intense that the sound of a strange voice failed to rout it this time . 
He continued to look down at the red coals . 
Preparation for the future was necessary , and he was willing to admit that the great change would perhaps come in the upheaval of a revolution . 
But he argued that revolutionary propaganda was a delicate work of high conscience . 
It was the education of the masters of the world . 
It should be as careful as the education given to kings . 
Round like a distended balloon , he opened his short , thick arms , as if in a pathetically hopeless attempt to embrace and hug to his breast a self regenerated universe . 
The future is as certain as the past slavery , feudalism , individualism , collectivism . 
This is the statement of a law , not an empty prophecy . 
The disdainful pout of Comrade Ossipon's thick lips accentuated the negro type of his face . 
Nonsense , he said calmly enough . 
There is no law and no certainty . 
The teaching propaganda be hanged . 
What the people knows does not matter , were its knowledge ever so accurate . 
The only thing that matters to us is the emotional state of the masses . 
Without emotion there is no action . 
The venomous spluttering of the old terrorist without teeth was heard . 
Do you know how I would call the nature of the present economic conditions ? I would call it cannibalistic . 
That's what it is ! They are nourishing their greed on the quivering flesh and the warm blood of the people nothing else . 
Michaelis gave no sign of having heard anything . 
His lips seemed glued together for good not a quiver passed over his heavy cheeks . 
With troubled eyes he looked for his round , hard hat , and put it on his round head . 
His round and obese body seemed to float low between the chairs under the sharp elbow of Karl Yundt . 
The old terrorist , raising an uncertain and clawlike hand , gave a swaggering tilt to a black felt sombrero shading the hollows and ridges of his wasted face . 
He got in motion slowly , striking the floor with his stick at every step . 
The gentle apostle grasped his arm with brotherly care and behind them , his hands in his pockets , the robust Ossipon yawned vaguely . 
Mr Verloc saw his guests off the premises , attending them bareheaded , his heavy overcoat hanging open , his eyes on the ground . 
He closed the door behind their backs with restrained violence , turned the key , shot the bolt . 
He was not satisfied with his friends . 
In the light of Mr Vladimir's philosophy of bomb throwing they appeared hopelessly futile . 
He had to be cautious . 
Pausing in his intention to turn off the gas burning in the middle of the shop , Mr Verloc descended into the abyss of moral reflections . 
With the insight of a kindred temperament he pronounced his verdict . 
When that indomitable snarling old witch died the swaggering spectre would have to vanish too there would be an end to fiery Karl Yundt . 
The ex prisoner could moon about the shady lanes for days together in a delicious and humanitarian idleness . 
As to Ossipon , that beggar was sure to want for nothing as long as there were silly girls with savings bank books in the world . 
And Mr Verloc , temperamentally identical with his associates , drew fine distinctions in his mind on the strength of insignificant differences . 
The majority of revolutionises are the enemies of discipline and fatigue mostly . 
There are natures too , to whose sense of justice the price exacted looms up monstrously enormous , odious , oppressive , worrying , humiliating , extortionate , intolerable . 
Lost for a whole minute in the abyss of meditation , Mr Verloc did not reach the depth of these abstract considerations . 
Perhaps he was not able . 
In any case he had not the time . 
He was pulled up painfully by the sudden recollection of Mr Vladimir , another of his associates , whom in virtue of subtle moral affinities he was capable of judging correctly . 
He considered him as dangerous . 
A shade of envy crept into his thoughts . 
Then why not go now at once ? He sighed . 
The necessity was not so normally pleasurable as it ought to have been for a man of his age and temperament . 
He dreaded the demon of sleeplessness , which he felt had marked him for its own . 
He raised his arm , and turned off the flaring gas jet above his head . 
A bright band of light fell through the parlour door into the part of the shop behind the counter . 
It enabled Mr Verloc to ascertain at a glance the number of silver coins in the till . 
These were but few and for the first time since he opened his shop he took a commercial survey of its value . 
He had gone into trade for no commercial reasons . 
He had been guided in the selection of this peculiar line of business by an instinctive leaning towards shady transactions , where money is picked up easily . 
Moreover , it did not take him out of his own sphere the sphere which is watched by the police . 
But as a means of livelihood it was by itself insufficient . 
He took the cash box out of the drawer , and turning to leave the shop , became aware that Stevie was still downstairs . 
What on earth is he doing there ? Mr Verloc asked himself . 
What's the meaning of these antics ? He looked dubiously at his brother in law , but he did not ask him for information . 
Mr Verloc perceived with some surprise that he did not know really what to say to Stevie . 
He stood still in the middle of the parlour , and looked into the kitchen in silence . 
Nor yet did he know what would happen if he did say anything . 
And this appeared very queer to Mr Verloc in view of the fact , borne upon him suddenly , that he had to provide for this fellow too . 
He had never given a moment's thought till then to that aspect of Stevie's existence . 
Positively he did not know how to speak to the lad . 
He watched him gesticulating and murmuring in the kitchen . 
Stevie prowled round the table like an excited animal in a cage . 
The cause of the general lassitude he felt while climbing the stairs being purely mental , he became alarmed by its inexplicable character . 
He hoped he was not sickening for anything . 
He stopped on the dark landing to examine his sensations . 
But a slight and continuous sound of snoring pervading the obscurity interfered with their clearness . 
The sound came from his mother in law's room . 
Another one to provide for , he thought and on this thought walked into the bedroom . 
turned up full on the table by the side of the bed . 
She woke up with the sound of her name in her ears , and saw her husband standing over her . 
Winnie ! Winnie ! At first she did not stir , lying very quiet and looking at the cash box in Mr Verloc's hand . 
But when she understood that her brother was capering all over the place downstairs she swung out in one sudden movement on to the edge of the bed . 
I don't know how to manage him , Mr Verloc explained peevishly . 
Won't do to leave him downstairs alone with the lights . 
She said nothing , glided across the room swiftly , and the door closed upon her white form . 
Mr Verloc deposited the cash box on the night table , and began the operation of undressing by flinging his overcoat on to a distant chair . 
His coat and waistcoat followed . 
Mr Verloc felt the latent unfriendliness of all out of doors with a force approaching to positive bodily anguish . 
There is no occupation that fails a man more completely than that of a secret agent of police . 
It's like your horse suddenly falling dead under you in the midst of an uninhabited and thirsty plain . 
The comparison occurred to Mr Verloc because he had sat astride various army horses in his time , and had now the sensation of an incipient fall . 
The prospect was as black as the window pane against which he was leaning his forehead . 
This luminous and mutilated vision was so ghastly physically that Mr Verloc started away from the window , letting down the venetian blind with a great rattle . 
Mrs Verloc expressed her surprise at seeing him up yet . 
I don't feel very well , he muttered , passing his hands over his moist brow . 
You'll catch cold standing there , she observed . 
Mr Verloc made an effort , finished undressing , and got into bed . 
Mrs Verloc , on her back , and staring at the ceiling , made a remark . 
Takings very small to day . 
That poor boy is in a very excited state to night , she murmured , after a pause which lasted for three ticks of the clock . 
Mr Verloc cared nothing for Stevie's excitement , but he felt horribly wakeful , and dreaded facing the darkness and silence that would follow the extinguishing of the lamp . 
This dread led him to make the remark that Stevie had disregarded his suggestion to go to bed . 
Mrs Verloc , falling into the trap , started to demonstrate at length to her husband that this was not impudence of any sort , but simply excitement . 
Mr Verloc's anxieties had prevented him from attaching any sense to what his wife was saying . 
It was as if her voice were talking on the other side of a very thick wall . 
It was her aspect that recalled him to himself . 
He appreciated this woman , and the sentiment of this appreciation , stirred by a display of something resembling emotion , only added another pang to his mental anguish . 
When her voice ceased he moved uneasily , and said I haven't been feeling well for the last few days . 
If I had known they were coming to night I would have seen to it that he went to bed at the same time I did . 
He was out of his mind with something he overheard about eating people's flesh and drinking blood . 
What's the good of talking like that ? There was a note of indignant scorn in her voice . 
Mr Verloc was fully responsive now . 
Ask Karl Yundt , he growled savagely . 
Mrs Verloc , with great decision , pronounced Karl Yundt a disgusting old man . 
She declared openly her affection for Michaelis . 
Of the robust Ossipon , in whose presence she always felt uneasy behind an attitude of stony reserve , she said nothing whatever . 
And continuing to talk of that brother , who had been for so many years an object of care and fears He isn't fit to hear what's said here . 
He believes it's all true . 
He gets into his passions over it . 
Mr Verloc made no comment . 
He glared at me , as if he didn't know who I was , when I went downstairs . 
His heart was going like a hammer . 
He can't help being excitable . 
I woke mother up , and asked her to sit with him till he went to sleep . 
He's no trouble when he's left alone . 
Mr Verloc made no comment . 
I wish he had never been to school , Mrs Verloc began again brusquely . 
He's always taking away those newspapers from the window to read . 
He gets a red face poring over them . 
We don't get rid of a dozen numbers in a month . 
They only take up room in the front window . 
And Mr Ossipon brings every week a pile of these F. P. tracts to sell at a halfpenny each . 
I wouldn't give a halfpenny for the whole lot . 
It's silly reading that's what it is . 
There's no sale for it . 
The brute ! I couldn't do anything with Stevie that afternoon . 
The story was enough , too , to make one's blood boil . 
But what's the use of printing things like that ? We aren't German slaves here , thank God . 
It's not our business is it ? Mr Verloc made no reply . 
I had to take the carving knife from the boy , Mrs Verloc continued , a little sleepily now . 
He was shouting and stamping and sobbing . 
He can't stand the notion of any cruelty . 
He would have stuck that officer like a pig if he had seen him then . 
It's true , too ! Some people don't deserve much mercy . 
Mrs Verloc's voice ceased , and the expression of her motionless eyes became more and more contemplative and veiled during the long pause . 
Comfortable , dear ? she asked in a faint , far away voice . 
Shall I put out the light now ? The dreary conviction that there was no sleep for him held Mr Verloc mute and hopelessly inert in his fear of darkness . 
He made a great effort . 
Put it out , he said at last in a hollow tone . 
CHAPTER IV Most of the thirty or so little tables covered by red cloths with a white design stood ranged at right angles to the deep brown wainscoting of the underground hall . 
Varlets in green jerkins brandished hunting knives and raised on high tankards of foaming beer . 
His eyes stared with wild eagerness . 
An upright semi grand piano near the door , flanked by two palms in pots , executed suddenly all by itself a valse tune with aggressive virtuosity . 
The din it raised was deafening . 
In principle what one of us may or may not know as to any given fact can't be a matter for inquiry to the others . 
Certainly not , Comrade Ossipon agreed in a quiet undertone . 
The lamentable inferiority of the whole physique was made ludicrous by the supremely self confident bearing of the individual . 
His speech was curt , and he had a particularly impressive manner of keeping silent . 
Ossipon spoke again from between his hands in a mutter . 
Have you been out much to day ? No. I stayed in bed all the morning , answered the other . 
Why ? Oh ! Nothing , said Ossipon , gazing earnestly and quivering inwardly with the desire to find out something , but obviously intimidated by the little man's overwhelming air of unconcern . 
When talking with this comrade which happened but rarely the big Ossipon suffered from a sense of moral and even physical insignificance . 
However , he ventured another question . 
Did you walk down here ? No omnibus , the little man answered readily enough . 
His single back room , remarkable for having an extremely large cupboard , he rented furnished from two elderly spinsters , dressmakers in a humble way with a clientele of servant girls mostly . 
He had a heavy padlock put on the cupboard , but otherwise he was a model lodger , giving no trouble , and requiring practically no attendance . 
The ghost of a sickly smile altered the set of Ossipon's thick lips at the thought of the walls nodding , of people running for life at the sight of those spectacles . 
An hour , he said . 
Then it may be you haven't heard yet the news I've heard just now in the street . 
Have you ? The little man shook his head negatively the least bit . 
But as he gave no indication of curiosity Ossipon ventured to add that he had heard it just outside the place . 
A newspaper boy had yelled the thing under his very nose , and not being prepared for anything of that sort , he was very much startled and upset . 
He had to come in there with a dry mouth . 
I never thought of finding you here , he added , murmuring steadily , with his elbows planted on the table . 
I come here sometimes , said the other , preserving his provoking coolness of demeanour . 
It's wonderful that you of all people should have heard nothing of it , the big Ossipon continued . 
His eyelids snapped nervously upon the shining eyes . 
You of all people , he repeated tentatively . 
Ossipon after waiting for something , word or sign , that did not come , made an effort to assume a sort of indifference . 
That's a principle ? commented Ossipon . 
What could stop me ? Why should I not ? Why should I think twice about it ? Ossipon gasped , as it were , discreetly . 
Do you mean to say you would hand it over to a teck' if one came to ask you for your wares ? The other smiled faintly . 
Let them come and try it on , and you will see , he said . 
They know me , but I know also every one of them . 
They won't come near me not they . 
His thin livid lips snapped together firmly . 
But they could send someone rig a plant on you . 
Don't you see ? Get the stuff from you in that way , and then arrest you with the proof in their hands . 
Proof of what ? Dealing in explosives without a licence perhaps . 
This was meant for a contemptuous jeer , though the expression of the thin , sickly face remained unchanged , and the utterance was negligent . 
I don't think there's one of them anxious to make that arrest . 
I don't think they could get one of them to apply for a warrant . 
I mean one of the best . 
Because they know very well I take care never to part with the last handful of my wares . 
I've it always by me . 
He touched the breast of his coat lightly . 
In a thick glass flask , he added . 
So I have been told , said Ossipon , with a shade of wonder in his voice . 
But I didn't know if They know , interrupted the little man crisply , leaning against the straight chair back , which rose higher than his fragile head . 
I shall never be arrested . 
The game isn't good enough for any policeman of them all . 
To deal with a man like me you require sheer , naked , inglorious heroism . 
Again his lips closed with a self confident snap . 
Ossipon repressed a movement of impatience . 
Or recklessness or simply ignorance , he retorted . 
They've only to get somebody for the job who does not know you carry enough stuff in your pocket to blow yourself and everything within sixty yards of you to pieces . 
I never affirmed I could not be eliminated , rejoined the other . 
But that wouldn't be an arrest . 
Moreover , it's not so easy as it looks . 
Don't be too sure of that . 
I am seldom out in the streets after dark , said the little man impassively , and never very late . 
I walk always with my right hand closed round the india rubber ball which I have in my trouser pocket . 
The pressing of this ball actuates a detonator inside the flask I carry in my pocket . 
It's the principle of the pneumatic instantaneous shutter for a camera lens . 
His clothes , of a nondescript brown mixture , were threadbare and marked with stains , dusty in the folds , with ragged button holes . 
The detonator is partly mechanical , partly chemical , he explained , with casual condescension . 
It is instantaneous , of course ? murmured Ossipon , with a slight shudder . 
Far from it , confessed the other , with a reluctance which seemed to twist his mouth dolorously . 
A full twenty seconds must elapse from the moment I press the ball till the explosion takes place . 
Phew ! whistled Ossipon , completely appalled . 
Twenty seconds ! Horrors ! You mean to say that you could face that ? I should go crazy Wouldn't matter if you did . 
Of course , it's the weak point of this special system , which is only for my own use . 
The worst is that the manner of exploding is always the weak point with us . 
I am trying to invent a detonator that would adjust itself to all conditions of action , and even to unexpected changes of conditions . 
A variable and yet perfectly precise mechanism . 
Twenty seconds , muttered Ossipon again . 
Ough ! And then With a slight turn of the head the glitter of the spectacles seemed to gauge the size of the beer saloon in the basement of the renowned Silenus Restaurant . 
Nobody in this room could hope to escape , was the verdict of that survey . 
Nor yet this couple going up the stairs now . 
The piano at the foot of the staircase clanged through a mazurka with brazen impetuosity , as though a vulgar and impudent ghost were showing off . 
The keys sank and rose mysteriously . 
For a moment Ossipon imagined the overlighted place changed into a dreadful black hole belching horrible fumes choked with ghastly rubbish of smashed brickwork and mutilated corpses . 
He had such a distinct perception of ruin and death that he shuddered again . 
The other observed , with an air of calm sufficiency In the last instance it is character alone that makes for one's safety . 
There are very few people in the world whose character is as well established as mine . 
I wonder how you managed it , growled Ossipon . 
Force of personality , said the other , without raising his voice and coming from the mouth of that obviously miserable organism the assertion caused the robust Ossipon to bite his lower lip . 
Force of personality , he repeated , with ostentatious calm . 
I have the means to make myself deadly , but that by itself , you understand , is absolutely nothing in the way of protection . 
What is effective is the belief those people have in my will to use the means . 
There are individuals of character amongst that lot too , muttered Ossipon ominously . 
But it is a matter of degree obviously , since , for instance , I am not impressed by them . 
Their character is built upon conventional morality . 
It leans on the social order . 
Mine stands free from everything artificial . 
They are bound in all sorts of conventions . 
This is a transcendental way of putting it , said Ossipon , watching the cold glitter of the round spectacles . 
I've heard Karl Yundt say much the same thing not very long ago . 
Karl Yundt , mumbled the other contemptuously , the delegate of the International Red Committee , has been a posturing shadow all his life . 
There are three of you delegates , aren't there ? I won't define the other two , as you are one of them . 
But what you say means nothing . 
Ossipon could not restrain a start of indignation . 
But what do you want from us ? he exclaimed in a deadened voice . 
What is it you are after yourself ? A perfect detonator , was the peremptory answer . 
What are you making that face for ? You see , you can't even bear the mention of something conclusive . 
I am not making a face , growled the annoyed Ossipon bearishly . 
Clearly you are , since you want to revolutionise it . 
It governs your thought , of course , and your action too , and thus neither your thought nor your action can ever be conclusive . 
He paused , tranquil , with that air of close , endless silence , then almost immediately went on . 
You are not a bit better than the forces arrayed against you than the police , for instance . 
The other day I came suddenly upon Chief Inspector Heat at the corner of Tottenham Court Road . 
He looked at me very steadily . 
But I did not look at him . 
But I was thinking of my perfect detonator only . 
He meant nothing to me . 
He was as insignificant as I can't call to mind anything insignificant enough to compare him with except Karl Yundt perhaps . 
The terrorist and the policeman both come from the same basket . 
Revolution , legality counter moves in the same game forms of idleness at bottom identical . 
He plays his little game so do you propagandists . 
But I don't play I work fourteen hours a day , and go hungry sometimes . 
My experiments cost money now and again , and then I must do without food for a day or two . 
You're looking at my beer . 
I have had two glasses already , and shall have another presently . 
This is a little holiday , and I celebrate it alone . 
Why not ? I've the grit to work alone , quite alone , absolutely alone . 
I've worked alone for years . 
Ossipon's face had turned dusky red . 
At the perfect detonator eh ? he sneered , very low . 
Yes , retorted the other . 
It is a good definition . 
You couldn't find anything half so precise to define the nature of your activity with all your committees and delegations . 
It is I who am the true propagandist . 
We won't discuss that point , said Ossipon , with an air of rising above personal considerations . 
I am afraid I'll have to spoil your holiday for you , though . 
There's a man blown up in Greenwich Park this morning . 
How do you know ? They have been yelling the news in the streets since two o'clock . 
I bought the paper , and just ran in here . 
Then I saw you sitting at this table . 
I've got it in my pocket now . 
He pulled the newspaper out . 
It was a good sized rosy sheet , as if flushed by the warmth of its own convictions , which were optimistic . 
He scanned the pages rapidly . 
Ah ! Here it is . 
There isn't much so far . 
Effects of explosion felt as far as Romney Road and Park Place . 
Enormous hole in the ground under a tree filled with smashed roots and broken branches . 
All round fragments of a man's body blown to pieces . 
The rest's mere newspaper gup . 
No doubt a wicked attempt to blow up the Observatory , they say . 
He looked at the paper for a while longer in silence , then passed it to the other , who after gazing abstractedly at the print laid it down without comment . 
It was Ossipon who spoke first still resentful . 
The fragments of only ONE man , you note . 
Under the present circumstances it's nothing short of criminal . 
The little man lifted his thin black eyebrows with dispassionate scorn . 
The meaning of this assertion is that this business may affect our position very adversely in this country . 
Isn't that crime enough for you ? I am convinced you have been giving away some of your stuff lately . 
The other , without flinching , lowered and raised his head slowly . 
You have ! burst out the editor of the F. P. leaflets in an intense whisper . 
Yes , I would give the stuff with both hands to every man , woman , or fool that likes to come along . 
I know what you are thinking about . 
But I am not taking my cue from the Red Committee . 
I would see you all hounded out of here , or arrested or beheaded for that matter without turning a hair . 
What happens to us as individuals is not of the least consequence . 
He spoke carelessly , without heat , almost without feeling , and Ossipon , secretly much affected , tried to copy this detachment . 
If the police here knew their business they would shoot you full of holes with revolvers , or else try to sand bag you from behind in broad daylight . 
The little man seemed already to have considered that point of view in his dispassionate self confident manner . 
Yes , he assented with the utmost readiness . 
But for that they would have to face their own institutions . 
Do you see ? That requires uncommon grit . 
Grit of a special kind . 
I fancy that's exactly what would happen to you if you were to set up your laboratory in the States . 
They don't stand on ceremony with their institutions there . 
I am not likely to go and see . 
Otherwise your remark is just , admitted the other . 
They have more character over there , and their character is essentially anarchistic . 
Fertile ground for us , the States very good ground . 
The great Republic has the root of the destructive matter in her . 
The collective temperament is lawless . 
They may shoot us down , but You are too transcendental for me , growled Ossipon , with moody concern . 
Logical , protested the other . 
There are several kinds of logic . 
This is the enlightened kind . 
It is this country that is dangerous , with her idealistic conception of legality . 
The social spirit of this people is wrapped up in scrupulous prejudices , and that is fatal to our work . 
You talk of England being our only refuge ! So much the worse . 
Capua ! What do we want with refuges ? Here you talk , print , plot , and do nothing . 
I daresay it's very convenient for such Karl Yundts . 
He shrugged his shoulders slightly , then added with the same leisurely assurance To break up the superstition and worship of legality should be our aim . 
Nothing would please me more than to see Inspector Heat and his likes take to shooting us down in broad daylight with the approval of the public . 
Half our battle would be won then the disintegration of the old morality would have set in in its very temple . 
That is what you ought to aim at . 
But you revolutionises will never understand that . 
That sort of future will take care of itself if you will only make room for it . 
Ossipon , who had been mentally swimming in deep waters , seized upon the last word as if it were a saving plank . 
I shouldn't wonder if it weren't one of your detonators that made a clean sweep of the man in the park . 
A shade of vexation darkened the determined sallow face confronting Ossipon . 
My difficulty consists precisely in experimenting practically with the various kinds . 
They must be tried after all . 
Describe him , he repeated slowly . 
I don't think there can be the slightest objection now . 
I will describe him to you in one word Verloc . 
Ossipon , whom curiosity had lifted a few inches off his seat , dropped back , as if hit in the face . 
The self possessed little man nodded slightly once . 
You can't say that in this case I was giving my stuff to the first fool that came along . 
He was a prominent member of the group as far as I understand . 
He was the centre for general intelligence , and usually received comrades coming over here . 
Years ago he used to speak at meetings in France , I believe . 
Not very well , though . 
He was trusted by such men as Latorre , Moser and all that old lot . 
The only talent he showed really was his ability to elude the attentions of the police somehow . 
Here , for instance , he did not seem to be looked after very closely . 
He was regularly married , you know . 
I suppose it's with her money that he started that shop . 
Seemed to make it pay , too . 
Ossipon paused abruptly , muttered to himself I wonder what that woman will do now ? and fell into thought . 
The other waited with ostentatious indifference . 
His parentage was obscure , and he was generally known only by his nickname of Professor . 
His title to that designation consisted in his having been once assistant demonstrator in chemistry at some technical institute . 
He quarrelled with the authorities upon a question of unfair treatment . 
Afterwards he obtained a post in the laboratory of a manufactory of dyes . 
There too he had been treated with revolting injustice . 
The Professor had genius , but lacked the great social virtue of resignation . 
Intellectually a nonentity , Ossipon pronounced aloud , abandoning suddenly the inward contemplation of Mrs Verloc's bereaved person and business . 
You are wrong in not keeping more in touch with the comrades , Professor , he added in a reproving tone . 
Did he say anything to you give you some idea of his intentions ? I hadn't seen him for a month . 
It seems impossible that he should be gone . 
He told me it was going to be a demonstration against a building , said the Professor . 
I had to know that much to prepare the missile . 
I pointed out to him that I had hardly a sufficient quantity for a completely destructive result , but he pressed me very earnestly to do my best . 
As he wanted something that could be carried openly in the hand , I proposed to make use of an old one gallon copal varnish can I happened to have by me . 
He was pleased at the idea . 
It gave me some trouble , because I had to cut out the bottom first and solder it on again afterwards . 
When prepared for use , the can enclosed a wide mouthed , well corked jar of thick glass packed around with some wet clay and containing sixteen ounces of X green powder . 
The detonator was connected with the screw top of the can . 
It was ingenious a combination of time and shock . 
I explained the system to him . 
It was a thin tube of tin enclosing a Ossipon's attention had wandered . 
What do you think has happened ? he interrupted . 
Screwed the top on tight , which would make the connection , and then forgot the time . 
It was set for twenty minutes . 
On the other hand , the time contact being made , a sharp shock would bring about the explosion at once . 
He either ran the time too close , or simply let the thing fall . 
The contact was made all right that's clear to me at any rate . 
And yet you would think that a common fool in a hurry would be much more likely to forget to make the contact altogether . 
I was worrying myself about that sort of failure mostly . 
But there are more kinds of fools than one can guard against . 
You can't expect a detonator to be absolutely fool proof . 
He beckoned to a waiter . 
Ossipon sat rigid , with the abstracted gaze of mental travail . 
After the man had gone away with the money he roused himself , with an air of profound dissatisfaction . 
It's extremely unpleasant for me , he mused . 
Karl has been in bed with bronchitis for a week . 
There's an even chance that he will never get up again . 
Michaelis's luxuriating in the country somewhere . 
A fashionable publisher has offered him five hundred pounds for a book . 
It will be a ghastly failure . 
He has lost the habit of consecutive thinking in prison , you know . 
The Professor on his feet , now buttoning his coat , looked about him with perfect indifference . 
What are you going to do ? asked Ossipon wearily . 
He dreaded the blame of the Central Red Committee , a body which had no permanent place of abode , and of whose membership he was not exactly informed . 
If this affair eventuated in the stoppage of the modest subsidy allotted to the publication of the F. P. pamphlets , then indeed he would have to regret Verloc's inexplicable folly . 
Solidarity with the extremest form of action is one thing , and silly recklessness is another , he said , with a sort of moody brutality . 
I don't know what came to Verloc . 
You may take it as you like , but under the circumstances the only policy for the militant revolutionary group is to disclaim all connection with this damned freak of yours . 
How to make the disclaimer convincing enough is what bothers me . 
The little man on his feet , buttoned up and ready to go , was no taller than the seated Ossipon . 
He levelled his spectacles at the latter's face point blank . 
You might ask the police for a testimonial of good conduct . 
They know where every one of you slept last night . 
Perhaps if you asked them they would consent to publish some sort of official statement . 
No doubt they are aware well enough that we had nothing to do with this , mumbled Ossipon bitterly . 
What they will say is another thing . 
He remained thoughtful , disregarding the short , owlish , shabby figure standing by his side . 
I must lay hands on Michaelis at once , and get him to speak from his heart at one of our gatherings . 
The public has a sort of sentimental regard for that fellow . 
And I am in touch with a few reporters on the big dailies . 
What he would say would be utter bosh , but he has a turn of talk that makes it go down all the same . 
Like treacle , interjected the Professor , rather low , keeping an impassive expression . 
The perplexed Ossipon went on communing with himself half audibly , after the manner of a man reflecting in perfect solitude . 
Confounded ass ! To leave such an imbecile business on my hands . 
And I don't even know if He sat with compressed lips . 
The idea of going for news straight to the shop lacked charm . 
His notion was that Verloc's shop might have been turned already into a police trap . 
They will be bound to make some arrests , he thought , with something resembling virtuous indignation , for the even tenor of his revolutionary life was menaced by no fault of his . 
And yet unless he went there he ran the risk of remaining in ignorance of what perhaps it would be very material for him to know . 
Then he reflected that , if the man in the park had been so very much blown to pieces as the evening papers said , he could not have been identified . 
There would be a lot of watching all round , no matter where he went . 
Still I wonder what I had better do now ? he muttered , taking counsel with himself . 
A rasping voice at his elbow said , with sedate scorn Fasten yourself upon the woman for all she's worth . 
After uttering these words the Professor walked away from the table . 
The painfully detached notes grew faint behind his back while he went slowly upstairs , across the hall , and into the street . 
In front of the great doorway a dismal row of newspaper sellers standing clear of the pavement dealt out their wares from the gutter . 
The posters , maculated with filth , garnished like tapestry the sweep of the curbstone . 
The trade in afternoon papers was brisk , yet , in comparison with the swift , constant march of foot traffic , the effect was of indifference , of a disregarded distribution . 
Ossipon looked hurriedly both ways before stepping out into the cross currents , but the Professor was already out of sight . 
It was vain to pretend to himself that he was not disappointed . 
But that was mere feeling the stoicism of his thought could not be disturbed by this or any other failure . 
On that view he considered himself entitled to undisputed success . 
In the son , individualist by temperament , once the science of colleges had replaced thoroughly the faith of conventicles , this moral attitude translated itself into a frenzied puritanism of ambition . 
He nursed it as something secularly holy . 
To see it thwarted opened his eyes to the true nature of the world , whose morality was artificial , corrupt , and blasphemous . 
The way of even the most justifiable revolutions is prepared by personal impulses disguised into creeds . 
The Professor's indignation found in itself a final cause that absolved him from the sin of turning to destruction as the agent of his ambition . 
He was a moral agent that was settled in his mind . 
By exercising his agency with ruthless defiance he procured for himself the appearances of power and personal prestige . 
That was undeniable to his vengeful bitterness . 
That was the form of doubt he feared most . 
Impervious to fear ! Often while walking abroad , when he happened also to come out of himself , he had such moments of dreadful and sane mistrust of mankind . 
What if nothing could move them ? Such moments come to all men whose ambition aims at a direct grasp upon humanity to artists , politicians , thinkers , reformers , or saints . 
In order to reach sooner the point where he could take his omnibus , he turned brusquely out of the populous street into a narrow and dusky alley paved with flagstones . 
On one side the low brick houses had in their dusty windows the sightless , moribund look of incurable decay empty shells awaiting demolition . 
From the other side life had not departed wholly as yet . 
An unhappy , homeless couch , accompanied by two unrelated chairs , stood in the open . 
The only human being making use of the alley besides the Professor , coming stalwart and erect from the opposite direction , checked his swinging pace suddenly . 
Hallo ! he said , and stood a little on one side watchfully . 
The Professor had already stopped , with a ready half turn which brought his shoulders very near the other wall . 
It was like a meeting in a side corridor of a mansion full of life . 
The stalwart man was buttoned up in a dark overcoat , and carried an umbrella . 
His hat , tilted back , uncovered a good deal of forehead , which appeared very white in the dusk . 
In the dark patches of the orbits the eyeballs glimmered piercingly . 
Long , drooping moustaches , the colour of ripe corn , framed with their points the square block of his shaved chin . 
I am not looking for you , he said curtly . 
The Professor did not stir an inch . 
The blended noises of the enormous town sank down to an inarticulate low murmur . 
Chief Inspector Heat of the Special Crimes Department changed his tone . 
Not in a hurry to get home ? he asked , with mocking simplicity . 
The unwholesome looking little moral agent of destruction exulted silently in the possession of personal prestige , keeping in check this man armed with the defensive mandate of a menaced society . 
He beheld all his enemies , and fearlessly confronted them all in a supreme satisfaction of his vanity . 
They stood perplexed before him as if before a dreadful portent . 
He gloated inwardly over the chance of this meeting affirming his superiority over all the multitude of mankind . 
It was in reality a chance meeting . 
Chief Inspector Heat had had a disagreeably busy day since his department received the first telegram from Greenwich a little before eleven in the morning . 
If he ever thought himself safe in making a statement , it was then . 
He had made that statement with infinite satisfaction to himself , because it was clear that the high official desired greatly to hear that very thing . 
He had gone even so far as to utter words which true wisdom would have kept back . 
But Chief Inspector Heat was not very wise at least not truly so . 
True wisdom , which is not certain of anything in this world of contradictions , would have prevented him from attaining his present position . 
It would have alarmed his superiors , and done away with his chances of promotion . 
His promotion had been very rapid . 
There isn't one of them , sir , that we couldn't lay our hands on at any time of night and day . 
We know what each of them is doing hour by hour , he had declared . 
And the high official had deigned to smile . 
This was so obviously the right thing to say for an officer of Chief Inspector Heat's reputation that it was perfectly delightful . 
The high official believed the declaration , which chimed in with his idea of the fitness of things . 
more or less deplorable does happen . 
This was not the only circumstance whose recollection depressed the usual serenity of the eminent specialist . 
There was another dating back only to that very morning . 
The thought that when called urgently to his Assistant Commissioner's private room he had been unable to conceal his astonishment was distinctly vexing . 
His instinct of a successful man had taught him long ago that , as a general rule , a reputation is built on manner as much as on achievement . 
And he felt that his manner when confronted with the telegram had not been impressive . 
To be crushed , as it were , under the tip of a forefinger was an unpleasant experience . 
Very damaging , too ! Furthermore , Chief Inspector Heat was conscious of not having mended matters by allowing himself to express a conviction . 
One thing I can tell you at once none of our lot had anything to do with this . 
He was strong in his integrity of a good detective , but he saw now that an impenetrably attentive reserve towards this incident would have served his reputation better . 
On the other hand , he admitted to himself that it was difficult to preserve one's reputation if rank outsiders were going to take a hand in the business . 
Outsiders are the bane of the police as of other professions . 
The tone of the Assistant Commissioner's remarks had been sour enough to set one's teeth on edge . 
And since breakfast Chief Inspector Heat had not managed to get anything to eat . 
Starting immediately to begin his investigation on the spot , he had swallowed a good deal of raw , unwholesome fog in the park . 
Then he had walked over to the hospital and when the investigation in Greenwich was concluded at last he had lost his inclination for food . 
It required considerable firmness of mind not to recoil before that sight . 
Chief Inspector Heat , an efficient officer of his department , stood his ground , but for a whole minute he did not advance . 
A local constable in uniform cast a sidelong glance , and said , with stolid simplicity He's all there . 
He had been the first man on the spot after the explosion . 
He mentioned the fact again . 
He had seen something like a heavy flash of lightning in the fog . 
At that time he was standing at the door of the King William Street Lodge talking to the keeper . 
The concussion made him tingle all over . 
He ran between the trees towards the Observatory . 
As fast as my legs would carry me , he repeated twice . 
Chief Inspector Heat , bending forward over the table in a gingerly and horrified manner , let him run on . 
The hospital porter and another man turned down the corners of the cloth , and stepped aside . 
The Chief Inspector's eyes searched the gruesome detail of that heap of mixed things , which seemed to have been collected in shambles and rag shops . 
You used a shovel , he remarked , observing a sprinkling of small gravel , tiny brown bits of bark , and particles of splintered wood as fine as needles . 
Had to in one place , said the stolid constable . 
I sent a keeper to fetch a spade . 
When he heard me scraping the ground with it he leaned his forehead against a tree , and was as sick as a dog . 
The Chief Inspector , stooping guardedly over the table , fought down the unpleasant sensation in his throat . 
No physiologist , and still less of a metaphysician , Chief Inspector Heat rose by the force of sympathy , which is a form of fear , above the vulgar conception of time . 
All the time his trained faculties of an excellent investigator , who scorns no chance of information , followed the self satisfied , disjointed loquacity of the constable . 
A fair haired fellow , the last observed in a placid tone , and paused . 
The old woman who spoke to the sergeant noticed a fair haired fellow coming out of Maze Hill Station . 
And he was a fair haired fellow . 
She noticed two men coming out of the station after the uptrain had gone on , he continued slowly . 
She couldn't tell if they were together . 
She took no particular notice of the big one , but the other was a fair , slight chap , carrying a tin varnish can in one hand . 
She's housekeeper to a retired publican , and attends the chapel in Park Place sometimes , the constable uttered weightily , and paused , with another oblique glance at the table . 
Then suddenly Well , here he is all of him I could see . 
Look at that foot there . 
I picked up the legs first , one after another . 
He was that scattered you didn't know where to begin . 
The constable paused the least flicker of an innocent self laudatory smile invested his round face with an infantile expression . 
Stumbled , he announced positively . 
I stumbled once myself , and pitched on my head too , while running up . 
Them roots do stick out all about the place . 
Stumbled against the root of a tree and fell , and that thing he was carrying must have gone off right under his chest , I expect . 
The echo of the words Person unknown repeating itself in his inner consciousness bothered the Chief Inspector considerably . 
He would have liked to trace this affair back to its mysterious origin for his own information . 
Before the public he would have liked to vindicate the efficiency of his department by establishing the identity of that man . 
He was a loyal servant . 
That , however , appeared impossible . 
The first term of the problem was unreadable lacked all suggestion but that of atrocious cruelty . 
Overcoming his physical repugnance , Chief Inspector Heat stretched out his hand without conviction for the salving of his conscience , and took up the least soiled of the rags . 
It was a narrow strip of velvet with a larger triangular piece of dark blue cloth hanging from it . 
He held it up to his eyes and the police constable spoke . 
Funny the old woman should have noticed the velvet collar . 
Dark blue overcoat with a velvet collar , she has told us . 
He was the chap she saw , and no mistake . 
And here he is all complete , velvet collar and all . 
I don't think I missed a single piece as big as a postage stamp . 
At this point the trained faculties of the Chief Inspector ceased to hear the voice of the constable . 
He moved to one of the windows for better light . 
His face , averted from the room , expressed a startled intense interest while he examined closely the triangular piece of broad cloth . 
A convenient train whirled him up to town , alone and pondering deeply , in a third class compartment . 
That singed piece of cloth was incredibly valuable , and he could not defend himself from astonishment at the casual manner it had come into his possession . 
It was as if Fate had thrust that clue into his hands . 
And after the manner of the average man , whose ambition is to command events , he began to mistrust such a gratuitous and accidental success just because it seemed forced upon him . 
The practical value of success depends not a little on the way you look at it . 
But Fate looks at nothing . 
He no longer considered it eminently desirable all round to establish publicly the identity of the man who had blown himself up that morning with such horrible completeness . 
But he was not certain of the view his department would take . 
A department is to those it employs a complex personality with ideas and even fads of its own . 
By a benevolent provision of Nature no man is a hero to his valet , or else the heroes would have to brush their own clothes . 
Likewise no department appears perfectly wise to the intimacy of its workers . 
A department does not know so much as some of its servants . 
Being a dispassionate organism , it can never be perfectly informed . 
It would not be good for its efficiency to know too much . 
It was in this mental disposition , physically very empty , but still nauseated by what he had seen , that he had come upon the Professor . 
Under these conditions which make for irascibility in a sound , normal man , this meeting was specially unwelcome to Chief Inspector Heat . 
He had not been thinking of the Professor he had not been thinking of any individual anarchist at all . 
At the beginning of his career Chief Inspector Heat had been concerned with the more energetic forms of thieving . 
He had gained his spurs in that sphere , and naturally enough had kept for it , after his promotion to another department , a feeling not very far removed from affection . 
Thieving was not a sheer absurdity . 
Chief Inspector Heat was , of course , not insensible to the gravity of moral differences . 
But neither were the thieves he had been looking after . 
They submitted to the severe sanctions of a morality familiar to Chief Inspector Heat with a certain resignation . 
Both recognise the same conventions , and have a working knowledge of each other's methods and of the routine of their respective trades . 
They understand each other , which is advantageous to both , and establishes a sort of amenity in their relations . 
Products of the same machine , one classed as useful and the other as noxious , they take the machine for granted in different ways , but with a seriousness essentially the same . 
The mind of Chief Inspector Heat was inaccessible to ideas of revolt . 
But his thieves were not rebels . 
His bodily vigour , his cool inflexible manner , his courage and his fairness , had secured for him much respect and some adulation in the sphere of his early successes . 
He had felt himself revered and admired . 
And he spoke again in his big authoritative voice , which , being moderated , had a threatening character . 
You are not wanted , I tell you , he repeated . 
The anarchist did not stir . 
An inward laugh of derision uncovered not only his teeth but his gums as well , shook him all over , without the slightest sound . 
Chief Inspector Heat was led to add , against his better judgment Not yet . 
When I want you I will know where to find you . 
Those were perfectly proper words , within the tradition and suitable to his character of a police officer addressing one of his special flock . 
But the reception they got departed from tradition and propriety . 
The stunted , weakly figure before him spoke at last . 
I've no doubt the papers would give you an obituary notice then . 
You know best what that would be worth to you . 
I should think you can imagine easily the sort of stuff that would be printed . 
But you may be exposed to the unpleasantness of being buried together with me , though I suppose your friends would make an effort to sort us out as much as possible . 
With all his healthy contempt for the spirit dictating such speeches , the atrocious allusiveness of the words had its effect on Chief Inspector Heat . 
He had too much insight , and too much exact information as well , to dismiss them as rot . 
Life had such a strong hold upon him that a fresh wave of nausea broke out in slight perspiration upon his brow . 
But Chief Inspector Heat was also a man , and he could not let such words pass . 
All this is good to frighten children with , he said . 
It was very well said , without scorn , with an almost austere quietness . 
Doubtless , was the answer but there's no time like the present , believe me . 
For a man of real convictions this is a fine opportunity of self sacrifice . 
You may not find another so favourable , so humane . 
There isn't even a cat near us , and these condemned old houses would make a good heap of bricks where you stand . 
You'll never get me at so little cost to life and property , which you are paid to protect . 
You don't know who you're speaking to , said Chief Inspector Heat firmly . 
If I were to lay my hands on you now I would be no better than yourself . 
Ah ! The game ! You may be sure our side will win in the end . 
It may yet be necessary to make people believe that some of you ought to be shot at sight like mad dogs . 
Then that will be the game . 
But I'll be damned if I know what yours is . 
I don't believe you know yourselves . 
You'll never get anything by it . 
Meantime it's you who get something from it so far . 
And you get it easily , too . 
The perfect anarchist answered by a smile which did not part his thin colourless lips and the celebrated Chief Inspector felt a sense of superiority which induced him to raise a warning finger . 
Give it up whatever it is , he said in an admonishing tone , but not so kindly as if he were condescending to give good advice to a cracksman of repute . 
You'll find we are too many for you . 
The fixed smile on the Professor's lips wavered , as if the mocking spirit within had lost its assurance . 
Chief Inspector Heat went on Don't you believe me eh ? Well , you've only got to look about you . 
And anyway , you're not doing it well . 
You're always making a mess of it . 
Why , if the thieves didn't know their work better they would starve . 
The hint of an invincible multitude behind that man's back roused a sombre indignation in the breast of the Professor . 
He smiled no longer his enigmatic and mocking smile . 
The resisting power of numbers , the unattackable stolidity of a great multitude , was the haunting fear of his sinister loneliness . 
His lips trembled for some time before he managed to say in a strangled voice I am doing my work better than you're doing yours . 
That'll do now , interrupted Chief Inspector Heat hurriedly and the Professor laughed right out this time . 
While still laughing he moved on but he did not laugh long . 
It was a sad faced , miserable little man who emerged from the narrow passage into the bustle of the broad thoroughfare . 
He walked with the nerveless gait of a tramp going on , still going on , indifferent to rain or sun in a sinister detachment from the aspects of sky and earth . 
Yes , the thieves themselves were sure to be with him in his present work . 
The consciousness of universal support in his general activity heartened him to grapple with the particular problem . 
The problem immediately before the Chief Inspector was that of managing the Assistant Commissioner of his department , his immediate superior . 
This is the perennial problem of trusty and loyal servants anarchism gave it its particular complexion , but nothing more . 
Truth to say , Chief Inspector Heat thought but little of anarchism . 
He did not attach undue importance to it , and could never bring himself to consider it seriously . 
It had more the character of disorderly conduct disorderly without the human excuse of drunkenness , which at any rate implies good feeling and an amiable leaning towards festivity . 
As criminals , anarchists were distinctly no class no class at all . 
And recalling the Professor , Chief Inspector Heat , without checking his swinging pace , muttered through his teeth Lunatic . 
Catching thieves was another matter altogether . 
It had that quality of seriousness belonging to every form of open sport where the best man wins under perfectly comprehensible rules . 
There were no rules for dealing with anarchists . 
And that was distasteful to the Chief Inspector . 
It was all foolishness , but that foolishness excited the public mind , affected persons in high places , and touched upon international relations . 
A hard , merciless contempt settled rigidly on the Chief Inspector's face as he walked on . 
His mind ran over all the anarchists of his flock . 
Not one of them had half the spunk of this or that burglar he had known . 
Not half not one tenth . 
At headquarters the Chief Inspector was admitted at once to the Assistant Commissioner's private room . 
He found him , pen in hand , bent over a great table bestrewn with papers , as if worshipping an enormous double inkstand of bronze and crystal . 
Speaking tubes resembling snakes were tied by the heads to the back of the Assistant Commissioner's wooden arm chair , and their gaping mouths seemed ready to bite his elbows . 
And in this attitude he raised only his eyes , whose lids were darker than his face and very much creased . 
The reports had come in every anarchist had been exactly accounted for . 
The Chief Inspector stood it well , deferential but inscrutable . 
I daresay you were right , said the Assistant Commissioner , in telling me at first that the London anarchists had nothing to do with this . 
I quite appreciate the excellent watch kept on them by your men . 
On the other hand , this , for the public , does not amount to more than a confession of ignorance . 
The Assistant Commissioner's delivery was leisurely , as it were cautious . 
His thought seemed to rest poised on a word before passing to another , as though words had been the stepping stones for his intellect picking its way across the waters of error . 
Unless you have brought something useful from Greenwich , he added . 
The Chief Inspector began at once the account of his investigation in a clear matter of fact manner . 
His superior turning his chair a little , and crossing his thin legs , leaned sideways on his elbow , with one hand shading his eyes . 
His listening attitude had a sort of angular and sorrowful grace . 
Gleams as of highly burnished silver played on the sides of his ebony black head when he inclined it slowly at the end . 
The Assistant Commissioner cut his hesitation short . 
You believe there were two men ? he asked , without uncovering his eyes . 
The Chief Inspector thought it more than probable . 
In his opinion , the two men had parted from each other within a hundred yards from the Observatory walls . 
He explained also how the other man could have got out of the park speedily without being observed . 
The fog , though not very dense , was in his favour . 
He seemed to have escorted the other to the spot , and then to have left him there to do the job single handed . 
Very thoroughly eh ? murmured the Assistant Commissioner from under the shadow of his hand . 
The Chief Inspector in a few vigorous words described the aspect of the remains . 
The coroner's jury will have a treat , he added grimly . 
The Assistant Commissioner uncovered his eyes . 
We shall have nothing to tell them , he remarked languidly . 
He looked up , and for a time watched the markedly non committal attitude of his Chief Inspector . 
His nature was one that is not easily accessible to illusions . 
He knew that a department is at the mercy of its subordinate officers , who have their own conceptions of loyalty . 
His career had begun in a tropical colony . 
He had liked his work there . 
He had been very successful in tracking and breaking up certain nefarious secret societies amongst the natives . 
Then he took his long leave , and got married rather impulsively . 
It was a good match from a worldly point of view , but his wife formed an unfavourable opinion of the colonial climate on hearsay evidence . 
On the other hand , she had influential connections . 
It was an excellent match . 
But he did not like the work he had to do now . 
He felt himself dependent on too many subordinates and too many masters . 
The near presence of that strange emotional phenomenon called public opinion weighed upon his spirits , and alarmed him by its irrational nature . 
augmented his general mistrust of men's motives and of the efficiency of their organisation . 
The futility of office work especially appalled him on those days so trying to his sensitive liver . 
He got up , unfolding himself to his full height , and with a heaviness of step remarkable in so slender a man , moved across the room to the window . 
The panes streamed with rain , and the short street he looked down into lay wet and empty , as if swept clear suddenly by a great flood . 
It was a very trying day , choked in raw fog to begin with , and now drowned in cold rain . 
The flickering , blurred flames of gas lamps seemed to be dissolving in a watery atmosphere . 
And the lofty pretensions of a mankind oppressed by the miserable indignities of the weather appeared as a colossal and hopeless vanity deserving of scorn , wonder , and compassion . 
Horrible , horrible ! thought the Assistant Commissioner to himself , with his face near the window pane . 
We have been having this sort of thing now for ten days no , a fortnight a fortnight . 
He ceased to think completely for a time . 
That utter stillness of his brain lasted about three seconds . 
Then he said perfunctorily You have set inquiries on foot for tracing that other man up and down the line ? He had no doubt that everything needful had been done . 
Chief Inspector Heat knew , of course , thoroughly the business of man hunting . 
And these were the routine steps , too , that would be taken as a matter of course by the merest beginner . 
It was elementary , and could not have been neglected . 
Accordingly the Chief Inspector answered that all this had been done directly the old woman had come forward with her deposition . 
And he mentioned the name of a station . 
That's where they came from , sir , he went on . 
The porter who took the tickets at Maze Hill remembers two chaps answering to the description passing the barrier . 
They seemed to him two respectable working men of a superior sort sign painters or house decorators . 
The big man got out of a third class compartment backward , with a bright tin can in his hand . 
On the platform he gave it to carry to the fair young fellow who followed him . 
All this agrees exactly with what the old woman told the police sergeant in Greenwich . 
The Assistant Commissioner , still with his face turned to the window , expressed his doubt as to these two men having had anything to do with the outrage . 
All this theory rested upon the utterances of an old charwoman who had been nearly knocked down by a man in a hurry . 
Not a very substantial authority indeed , unless on the ground of sudden inspiration , which was hardly tenable . 
Chief Inspector Heat raised his voice a little . 
Strips and bits of bright tin were quite visible to me , he said . 
That's a pretty good corroboration . 
And these men came from that little country station , the Assistant Commissioner mused aloud , wondering . 
He was told that such was the name on two tickets out of three given up out of that train at Maze Hill . 
The third person who got out was a hawker from Gravesend well known to the porters . 
And still the Assistant Commissioner did not turn away from the darkness outside , as vast as a sea . 
Two foreign anarchists coming from that place , he said , apparently to the window pane . 
But it would be still more unaccountable if that Michaelis weren't staying in a cottage in the neighbourhood . 
At the sound of that name , falling unexpectedly into this annoying affair , the Assistant Commissioner dismissed brusquely the vague remembrance of his daily whist party at his club . 
It was the most comforting habit of his life , in a mainly successful display of his skill without the assistance of any subordinate . 
His partners were the gloomily humorous editor of a celebrated magazine a silent , elderly barrister with malicious little eyes and a highly martial , simple minded old Colonel with nervous brown hands . 
They were his club acquaintances merely . 
He never met them elsewhere except at the card table . 
But she had consented to accept him on a friendly footing , which was by no means the case with all of his wife's influential connections . 
Married young and splendidly at some remote epoch of the past , she had had for a time a close view of great affairs and even of some great men . 
She herself was a great lady . 
first , as always more or less tainted with mediocrity , and next as being in a way an admission of inferiority . 
And both were frankly inconceivable to her nature . 
To be fearlessly outspoken in her opinions came easily to her , since she judged solely from the standpoint of her social position . 
In her own words , she liked to watch what the world was coming to . 
And as she had a practical mind her judgment of men and things , though based on special prejudices , was seldom totally wrong , and almost never wrong headed . 
Who had brought Michaelis there one afternoon the Assistant Commissioner did not remember very well . 
He had a notion it must have been a certain Member of Parliament of illustrious parentage and unconventional sympathies , which were the standing joke of the comic papers . 
The notabilities and even the simple notorieties of the day brought each other freely to that temple of an old woman's not ignoble curiosity . 
The plan of the conspirators had been to shoot down the horses and overpower the escort . 
Unfortunately , one of the police constables got shot too . 
Three ring leaders got hanged . 
When arrested he had a bunch of skeleton keys in one pocket a heavy chisel in another , and a short crowbar in his hand neither more nor less than a burglar . 
But no burglar would have received such a heavy sentence . 
The death of the constable had made him miserable at heart , but the failure of the plot also . 
He did not conceal either of these sentiments from his empanelled countrymen , and that sort of compunction appeared shockingly imperfect to the crammed court . 
The judge on passing sentence commented feelingly upon the depravity and callousness of the young prisoner . 
He let them do so in the innocence of his heart and the simplicity of his mind . 
Nothing that happened to him individually had any importance . 
He was like those saintly men whose personality is lost in the contemplation of their faith . 
His ideas were not in the nature of convictions . 
They were inaccessible to reasoning . 
Confident of the future , whose secret ways had been revealed to him within the four walls of a well known penitentiary , he had no reason to look with suspicion upon anybody . 
A certain simplicity of thought is common to serene souls at both ends of the social scale . 
The great lady was simple in her own way . 
His views and beliefs had nothing in them to shock or startle her , since she judged them from the standpoint of her lofty position . 
Indeed , her sympathies were easily accessible to a man of that sort . 
She was not an exploiting capitalist herself she was , as it were , above the play of economic conditions . 
The Assistant Commissioner remembered very well the conversation between these two . 
He had listened in silence . 
It was something as exciting in a way , and even touching in its foredoomed futility , as the efforts at moral intercourse between the inhabitants of remote planets . 
But this grotesque incarnation of humanitarian passion appealed somehow , to one's imagination . 
Glancing about in serene benevolence , he waddled along to the distant door between the knots of other visitors . 
The murmur of conversations paused on his passage . 
He smiled innocently at a tall , brilliant girl , whose eyes met his accidentally , and went out unconscious of the glances following him across the room . 
Michaelis' first appearance in the world was a success a success of esteem unmarred by a single murmur of derision . 
The interrupted conversations were resumed in their proper tone , grave or light . 
Poor fellow ! It's terrible terrible . 
She looked hard at the Assistant Commissioner , who murmured apologetically Not a dangerous one perhaps . 
Not dangerous I should think not indeed . 
He is a mere believer . 
It's the temperament of a saint , declared the great lady in a firm tone . 
And they kept him shut up for twenty years . 
One shudders at the stupidity of it . 
And now they have let him out everybody belonging to him is gone away somewhere or dead . 
His parents are dead the girl he was to marry has died while he was in prison he has lost the skill necessary for his manual occupation . 
He told me all this himself with the sweetest patience but then , he said , he had had plenty of time to think out things for himself . 
The poor creature is obviously no longer in a position to take care of himself . 
Somebody will have to look after him a little . 
He should be recommended to follow a treatment of some sort , the soldierly voice of the active looking man was heard advising earnestly from a distance . 
The man is virtually a cripple , he added with unmistakable feeling . 
Other voices , as if glad of the opening , murmured hasty compassion . 
Quite startling , Monstrous , Most painful to see . 
The lank man , with the eyeglass on a broad ribbon , pronounced mincingly the word Grotesque , whose justness was appreciated by those standing near him . 
They smiled at each other . 
The Assistant Commissioner had expressed no opinion either then or later , his position making it impossible for him to ventilate any independent view of a ticket of leave convict . 
Her arbitrary kindness would not brook patiently any interference with Michaelis' freedom . 
It was a deep , calm , convinced infatuation . 
She had not only felt him to be inoffensive , but she had said so , which last by a confusion of her absolutist mind became a sort of incontrovertible demonstration . 
It was as if the monstrosity of the man , with his candid infant's eyes and a fat angelic smile , had fascinated her . 
She had come to believe almost his theory of the future , since it was not repugnant to her prejudices . 
She disliked the new element of plutocracy in the social compound , and industrialism as a method of human development appeared to her singularly repulsive in its mechanical and unfeeling character . 
The humanitarian hopes of the mild Michaelis tended not towards utter destruction , but merely towards the complete economic ruin of the system . 
And she did not really see where was the moral harm of it . 
, but because of their profound unintelligence of the world , which was the primary cause of the crudity of their perceptions and the aridity of their hearts . 
would leave the social values untouched . 
The disappearance of the last piece of money could not affect people of position . 
She could not conceive how it could affect her position , for instance . 
She had developed these discoveries to the Assistant Commissioner with all the serene fearlessness of an old woman who had escaped the blight of indifference . 
He had made for himself the rule to receive everything of that sort in a silence which he took care from policy and inclination not to make offensive . 
He felt himself really liked in her house . 
And she was practically wise too , after the manner of experienced women . 
She made his married life much easier than it would have been without her generously full recognition of his rights as Annie's husband . 
Her influence upon his wife , a woman devoured by all sorts of small selfishnesses , small envies , small jealousies , was excellent . 
Unfortunately , both her kindness and her wisdom were of unreasonable complexion , distinctly feminine , and difficult to deal with . 
She remained a perfect woman all along her full tale of years , and not as some of them do become a sort of slippery , pestilential old man in petticoats . 
Appreciating the distinguished and good friend of his wife , and himself , in that way , the Assistant Commissioner became alarmed at the convict Michaelis' possible fate . 
Once arrested on suspicion of being in some way , however remote , a party to this outrage , the man could hardly escape being sent back to finish his sentence at least . 
And that would kill him he would never come out alive . 
The Assistant Commissioner made a reflection extremely unbecoming his official position without being really creditable to his humanity . 
If the fellow is laid hold of again , he thought , she will never forgive me . 
The frankness of such a secretly outspoken thought could not go without some derisive self criticism . 
No man engaged in a work he does not like can preserve many saving illusions about himself . 
The distaste , the absence of glamour , extend from the occupation to the personality . 
It is only when our appointed activities seem by a lucky accident to obey the particular earnestness of our temperament that we can taste the comfort of complete self deception . 
The Assistant Commissioner did not like his work at home . 
His real abilities , which were mainly of an administrative order , were combined with an adventurous disposition . 
Though he judged his alarm sardonically he did not dismiss the improper thought from his mind . 
The instinct of self preservation was strong within him . 
His black , narrow figure , with the white band of the collar under the silvery gleams on the close cropped hair at the back of the head , remained motionless . 
The silence had lasted such a long time that Chief Inspector Heat ventured to clear his throat . 
This noise produced its effect . 
Well , sir , he said , we have enough to go upon . 
A man like that has no business to be at large , anyhow . 
You will want some conclusive evidence , came the observation in a murmur . 
Chief Inspector Heat raised his eyebrows at the black , narrow back , which remained obstinately presented to his intelligence and his zeal . 
There will be no difficulty in getting up sufficient evidence against HIM , he said , with virtuous complacency . 
It was impossible to say yet whether it would roar or not . 
That in the last instance depended , of course , on the newspaper press . 
In the strength of that conviction he committed a fault of tact . 
He allowed himself a little conceited laugh , and repeated Trust me for that , sir . 
This was too much for the forced calmness under which the Assistant Commissioner had for upwards of eighteen months concealed his irritation with the system and the subordinates of his office . 
What he resented most was just the necessity of taking so much on trust . 
At the little laugh of Chief Inspector Heat's he spun swiftly on his heels , as if whirled away from the window pane by an electric shock . 
The Assistant Commissioner of Police had really some qualifications for his post . 
Suddenly his suspicion was awakened . 
was not difficult to arouse . 
If it ever slumbered from sheer weariness , it was but lightly and his appreciation of Chief Inspector Heat's zeal and ability , moderate in itself , excluded all notion of moral confidence . 
He's up to something , he exclaimed mentally , and at once became angry . 
Crossing over to his desk with headlong strides , he sat down violently . 
And they can fasten the other ends of the threads where they please . 
He raised his head , and turned towards his subordinate a long , meagre face with the accentuated features of an energetic Don Quixote . 
Now what is it you've got up your sleeve ? The other stared . 
He began in a procrastinating manner , like a man taken unawares by a new and unexpected experience . 
You have reason to think , sir ? muttered Chief Inspector Heat , with every appearance of astonishment , which up to a certain point was genuine enough . 
Yes , said the Assistant Commissioner I have . 
I do not mean to say that you have not thought of Michaelis at all . 
But you are giving the fact you've mentioned a prominence which strikes me as not quite candid , Inspector Heat . 
But since you've made it , he continued coldly , I'll tell you that this is not my meaning . 
He paused , with a straight glance of his sunken eyes which was a full equivalent of the unspoken termination and you know it . 
That peculiar instinct could hardly be called a weakness . 
He was a born detective . 
It had unconsciously governed his choice of a career , and if it ever failed him in life it was perhaps in the one exceptional circumstance of his marriage which was also natural . 
It fed , since it could not roam abroad , upon the human material which was brought to it in its official seclusion . 
We can never cease to be ourselves . 
His Chief Inspector , if not an absolutely worthy foeman of his penetration , was at any rate the most worthy of all within his reach . 
A mistrust of established reputations was strictly in character with the Assistant Commissioner's ability as detector . 
Not precisely a traitor , but still a man of many dangerous reservations in his fidelity , caused by a due regard for his own advantage , comfort , and safety . 
A fellow of some innocence in his naive duplicity , but none the less dangerous . 
He took some finding out . 
Chief Inspector Heat's appearance recalled him to the memory of his superior . 
It was not the eyes nor yet the lips exactly . 
And that was a pleasurable sensation . 
I'll turn him inside out like an old glove , thought the Assistant Commissioner , with his eyes resting pensively upon Chief Inspector Heat . 
No , that was not my thought , he began again . 
This by itself is enough for us to go upon , sir , with that sort of man , said the Chief Inspector , with returning composure . 
The slight approving movement of the Assistant Commissioner's head went far to pacify the resentful astonishment of the renowned officer . 
There had been three in his time . 
The first one , a soldierly , abrupt , red faced person , with white eyebrows and an explosive temper , could be managed with a silken thread . 
He left on reaching the age limit . 
To work with him had been a pride and a pleasure . 
The third , a bit of a dark horse from the first , was at the end of eighteen months something of a dark horse still to the department . 
Upon the whole Chief Inspector Heat believed him to be in the main harmless odd looking , but harmless . 
and inwardly with benevolent toleration . 
Michaelis reported himself before leaving London for the country ? Yes , sir . 
And what may he be doing there ? continued the Assistant Commissioner , who was perfectly informed on that point . 
The conditions of confined space , seclusion , and solitude in a small four roomed cottage were favourable to his inspiration . 
It was like being in prison , except that one was never disturbed for the odious purpose of taking exercise according to the tyrannical regulations of his old home in the penitentiary . 
He could not tell whether the sun still shone on the earth or not . 
The perspiration of the literary labour dropped from his brow . 
A delightful enthusiasm urged him on . 
It was the liberation of his inner life , the letting out of his soul into the wide world . 
seemed something predestined and holy . 
It would be , of course , most desirable to be informed exactly , insisted the Assistant Commissioner uncandidly . 
A wire to the superintendent Thus he spoke , rather slowly , while his mind seemed already to be weighing the consequences . 
A slight knitting of the brow was the outward sign of this . 
But he was interrupted by a question . 
You've sent that wire already ? No , sir , he answered , as if surprised . 
The Assistant Commissioner uncrossed his legs suddenly . 
The briskness of that movement contrasted with the casual way in which he threw out a suggestion . 
Would you think that Michaelis had anything to do with the preparation of that bomb , for instance ? The Chief Inspector assumed a reflective manner . 
There's no necessity to say anything at present . 
He associates with men who are classed as dangerous . 
He was made a delegate of the Red Committee less than a year after his release on licence . 
A sort of compliment , I suppose . 
And the Chief Inspector laughed a little angrily , a little scornfully . 
With a man of that sort scrupulousness was a misplaced and even an illegal sentiment . 
The celebrity bestowed upon Michaelis on his release two years ago by some emotional journalists in want of special copy had rankled ever since in his breast . 
It was perfectly legal to arrest that man on the barest suspicion . 
It was legal and expedient on the face of it . 
His two former chiefs would have seen the point at once whereas this one , without saying either yes or no , sat there , as if lost in a dream . 
Moreover , besides being legal and expedient , the arrest of Michaelis solved a little personal difficulty which worried Chief Inspector Heat somewhat . 
This difficulty had its bearing upon his reputation , upon his comfort , and even upon the efficient performance of his duties . 
For , if Michaelis no doubt knew something about this outrage , the Chief Inspector was fairly certain that he did not know too much . 
This was just as well . 
The rules of the game did not protect so much Michaelis , who was an ex convict . 
It would be stupid not to take advantage of legal facilities , and the journalists who had written him up with emotional gush would be ready to write him down with emotional indignation . 
This prospect , viewed with confidence , had the attraction of a personal triumph for Chief Inspector Heat . 
This dislike had been strengthened by the chance meeting in the lane . 
The perfect anarchist was not recognised as a fellow creature by Chief Inspector Heat . 
He was impossible a mad dog to be left alone . 
Not that the Chief Inspector was afraid of him on the contrary , he meant to have him some day . 
But not yet he meant to get hold of him in his own time , properly and effectively according to the rules of the game . 
The present was not the right time for attempting that feat , not the right time for many reasons , personal and of public service . 
And he repeated , as if reconsidering the suggestion conscientiously The bomb . 
No , I would not say that exactly . 
We may never find that out . 
But it's clear that he is connected with this in some way , which we can find out without much trouble . 
His countenance had that look of grave , overbearing indifference once well known and much dreaded by the better sort of thieves . 
Chief Inspector Heat , though what is called a man , was not a smiling animal . 
Quite convinced ? I am , sir . 
That's the true line for us to take . 
The Assistant Commissioner withdrew the support of his hand from his reclining head with a suddenness that , considering his languid attitude , seemed to menace his whole person with collapse . 
But , on the contrary , he sat up , extremely alert , behind the great writing table on which his hand had fallen with the sound of a sharp blow . 
What I want to know is what put it out of your head till now . 
Put it out of my head , repeated the Chief Inspector very slowly . 
Till you were called into this room you know . 
The Chief Inspector felt as if the air between his clothing and his skin had become unpleasantly hot . 
It was the sensation of an unprecedented and incredible experience . 
This took such a long time to say that the unflagging attention of the Assistant Commissioner seemed a wonderful feat of endurance . 
His retort came without delay . 
No reason whatever that I know of . 
Come , Chief Inspector , this finessing with me is highly improper on your part highly improper . 
And it's also unfair , you know . 
You shouldn't leave me to puzzle things out for myself like this . 
Really , I am surprised . 
He paused , then added smoothly I need scarcely tell you that this conversation is altogether unofficial . 
These words were far from pacifying the Chief Inspector . 
The indignation of a betrayed tight rope performer was strong within him . 
In his pride of a trusted servant he was affected by the assurance that the rope was not shaken for the purpose of breaking his neck , as by an exhibition of impudence . 
As if anybody were afraid ! Assistant Commissioners come and go , but a valuable Chief Inspector is not an ephemeral office phenomenon . 
He was not afraid of getting a broken neck . 
To have his performance spoiled was more than enough to account for the glow of honest indignation . 
And as thought is no respecter of persons , the thought of Chief Inspector Heat took a threatening and prophetic shape . 
As if in provoking answer to that thought , something like the ghost of an amiable smile passed on the lips of the Assistant Commissioner . 
His manner was easy and business like while he persisted in administering another shake to the tight rope . 
Let us come now to what you have discovered on the spot , Chief Inspector , he said . 
A fool and his job are soon parted , went on the train of prophetic thought in Chief Inspector Heat's head . 
, has still the time as he flies through the door to launch a nasty kick at the shin bones of a subordinate . 
Without softening very much the basilisk nature of his stare , he said impassively We are coming to that part of my investigation , sir . 
Well , what have you brought away from it ? The Chief Inspector , who had made up his mind to jump off the rope , came to the ground with gloomy frankness . 
I've brought away an address , he said , pulling out of his pocket without haste a singed rag of dark blue cloth . 
This belongs to the overcoat the fellow who got himself blown to pieces was wearing . 
Of course , the overcoat may not have been his , and may even have been stolen . 
But that's not at all probable if you look at this . 
The Chief Inspector , stepping up to the table , smoothed out carefully the rag of blue cloth . 
He had picked it up from the repulsive heap in the mortuary , because a tailor's name is found sometimes under the collar . 
The Chief Inspector removed his smoothing hand . 
I carried it off with me without anybody taking notice , he said . 
It can always be produced if required . 
The Assistant Commissioner , rising a little in his chair , pulled the cloth over to his side of the table . 
He sat looking at it in silence . 
Only the number and the name of Brett Street were written in marking ink on a piece of calico slightly larger than an ordinary cigarette paper . 
Can't understand why he should have gone about labelled like this , he said , looking up at Chief Inspector Heat . 
It's a most extraordinary thing . 
He professed to be eighty four years old , but he didn't look his age . 
He told me he was also afraid of losing his memory suddenly , like those people he has been reading of in the papers . 
A question from the Assistant Commissioner , who wanted to know what was No. Brett Street , interrupted that reminiscence abruptly . 
The Chief Inspector , driven down to the ground by unfair artifices , had elected to walk the path of unreserved openness . 
If the Assistant Commissioner wanted to mismanage this affair nothing , of course , could prevent him . 
But , on his own part , he now saw no reason for a display of alacrity . 
So he answered concisely It's a shop , sir . 
The Assistant Commissioner , with his eyes lowered on the rag of blue cloth , waited for more information . 
As that did not come he proceeded to obtain it by a series of questions propounded with gentle patience . 
Thus he acquired an idea of the nature of Mr Verloc's commerce , of his personal appearance , and heard at last his name . 
In a pause the Assistant Commissioner raised his eyes , and discovered some animation on the Chief Inspector's face . 
They looked at each other in silence . 
Of course , said the latter , the department has no record of that man . 
No , sir certainly not . 
What would have been the object ? That sort of man could never be produced publicly to any good purpose . 
It was sufficient for me to know who he was , and to make use of him in a way that could be used publicly . 
And do you think that sort of private knowledge consistent with the official position you occupy ? Perfectly , sir . 
I think it's quite proper . 
I will take the liberty to tell you , sir , that it makes me what I am and I am looked upon as a man who knows his work . 
It's a private affair of my own . 
A personal friend of mine in the French police gave me the hint that the fellow was an Embassy spy . 
Private friendship , private information , private use of it that's how I look upon it . 
The so to speak public utterance was much more precise . 
I saw him for the first time in my life a little more than seven years ago , when two Imperial Highnesses and the Imperial Chancellor were on a visit here . 
I was put in charge of all the arrangements for looking after them . 
Baron Stott Wartenheim was Ambassador then . 
He was a very nervous old gentleman . 
One evening , three days before the Guildhall Banquet , he sent word that he wanted to see me for a moment . 
I was downstairs , and the carriages were at the door to take the Imperial Highnesses and the Chancellor to the opera . 
I went up at once . 
I found the Baron walking up and down his bedroom in a pitiable state of distress , squeezing his hands together . 
He assured me he had the fullest confidence in our police and in my abilities , but he had there a man just come over from Paris whose information could be trusted simplicity . 
He wanted me to hear what that man had to say . 
The Baron said to him in French Speak , my friend . 
The light in that room was not very good . 
I talked with him for some five minutes perhaps . 
He certainly gave me a piece of very startling news . 
Then the Baron took me aside nervously to praise him up to me , and when I turned round again I discovered that the fellow had vanished like a ghost . 
Got up and sneaked out down some back stairs , I suppose . 
There was no time to run after him , as I had to hurry off after the Ambassador down the great staircase , and see the party started safe for the opera . 
However , I acted upon the information that very night . 
Whether it was perfectly correct or not , it did look serious enough . 
Very likely it saved us from an ugly trouble on the day of the Imperial visit to the City . 
No later than next afternoon my man turned up to tell me that the fellow had married his landlady's daughter at a registrar's office that very day at . 
, and had gone off with her to Margate for a week . 
Our man had seen the luggage being put on the cab . 
There were some old Paris labels on one of the bags . 
My friend said From what you tell me I think you must mean a rather well known hanger on and emissary of the Revolutionary Red Committee . 
He says he is an Englishman by birth . 
We have an idea that he has been for a good few years now a secret agent of one of the foreign Embassies in London . 
This woke up my memory completely . 
He was the vanishing fellow I saw sitting on a chair in Baron Stott Wartenheim's bathroom . 
I told my friend that he was quite right . 
The fellow was a secret agent to my certain knowledge . 
Afterwards my friend took the trouble to ferret out the complete record of that man for me . 
I thought I had better know all there was to know but I don't suppose you want to hear his history now , sir ? The Assistant Commissioner shook his supported head . 
There's nothing official about them , said the Chief Inspector bitterly . 
I went into his shop one evening , told him who I was , and reminded him of our first meeting . 
He didn't as much as twitch an eyebrow . 
He said that he was married and settled now , and that all he wanted was not to be interfered in his little business . 
I took it upon myself to promise him that , as long as he didn't go in for anything obviously outrageous , he would be left alone by the police . 
That's a very precarious trade , murmured the Assistant Commissioner . 
Why did he go in for that ? The Chief Inspector raised scornful eyebrows dispassionately . 
Most likely got a connection friends on the Continent amongst people who deal in such wares . 
They would be just the sort he would consort with . 
He would not be much good to anybody but myself . 
One has got to know a good deal beforehand to make use of a man like that . 
I can understand the sort of hint he can give . 
And when I want a hint he can generally furnish it to me . 
He meets the new arrivals frequently , and afterwards keeps track of them . 
He seems to have been told off for that sort of duty . 
When I want an address in a hurry , I can always get it from him . 
Of course , I know how to manage our relations . 
I haven't seen him to speak to three times in the last two years . 
I drop him a line , unsigned , and he answers me in the same way at my private address . 
From time to time the Assistant Commissioner gave an almost imperceptible nod . 
Whenever I've had reason to think there was something in the wind , he concluded , I've always found he could tell me something worth knowing . 
The Assistant Commissioner made a significant remark . 
He failed you this time . 
Neither had I wind of anything in any other way , retorted Chief Inspector Heat . 
I asked him nothing , so he could tell me nothing . 
He isn't one of our men . 
It isn't as if he were in our pay . 
No , muttered the Assistant Commissioner . 
He's a spy in the pay of a foreign government . 
We could never confess to him . 
I must do my work in my own way , declared the Chief Inspector . 
When it comes to that I would deal with the devil himself , and take the consequences . 
There are things not fit for everybody to know . 
Your idea of secrecy seems to consist in keeping the chief of your department in the dark . 
That's stretching it perhaps a little too far , isn't it ? He lives over his shop ? Who Verloc ? Oh yes . 
He lives over his shop . 
The wife's mother , I fancy , lives with them . 
Is the house watched ? Oh dear , no . 
Certain people who come there are watched . 
My opinion is that he knows nothing of this affair . 
How do you account for this ? The Assistant Commissioner nodded at the cloth rag lying before him on the table . 
I don't account for it at all , sir . 
It can't be explained by what I know . 
The Chief Inspector made those admissions with the frankness of a man whose reputation is established as if on a rock . 
At any rate not at this present moment . 
I think that the man who had most to do with it will turn out to be Michaelis . 
You do ? Yes , sir because I can answer for all the others . 
What about that other man supposed to have escaped from the park ? I should think he's far away by this time , opined the Chief Inspector . 
The Assistant Commissioner looked hard at him , and rose suddenly , as though having made up his mind to some course of action . 
As a matter of fact , he had that very moment succumbed to a fascinating temptation . 
The Chief Inspector heard himself dismissed with instructions to meet his superior early next morning for further consultation upon the case . 
He listened with an impenetrable face , and walked out of the room with measured steps . 
It could not have had , or else the general air of alacrity that came upon the Assistant Commissioner would have been inexplicable . 
As soon as he was left alone he looked for his hat impulsively , and put it on his head . 
Having done that , he sat down again to reconsider the whole matter . 
But as his mind was already made up , this did not take long . 
And before Chief Inspector Heat had gone very far on the way home , he also left the building . 
Would he see you ? I don't know about that . 
He has walked over from the House an hour ago to talk with the permanent Under Secretary , and now he's ready to walk back again . 
He might have sent for him but he does it for the sake of a little exercise , I suppose . 
It's all the exercise he can find time for while this session lasts . 
I don't complain I rather enjoy these little strolls . 
He leans on my arm , and doesn't open , his lips . 
But , I say , he's very tired , and well not in the sweetest of tempers just now . 
It's in connection with that Greenwich affair . 
Oh ! I say ! He's very bitter against you people . 
But I will go and see , if you insist . 
That's a good fellow , said the Assistant Commissioner . 
The unpaid secretary admired this pluck . 
Composing for himself an innocent face , he opened a door , and went in with the assurance of a nice and privileged child . 
A shiny silk hat and a pair of worn gloves lying ready on the end of a long table looked expanded too , enormous . 
He stood on the hearthrug in big , roomy boots , and uttered no word of greeting . 
I would like to know if this is the beginning of another dynamite campaign , he asked at once in a deep , very smooth voice . 
I have no time for that . 
The Assistant Commissioner's figure before this big and rustic Presence had the frail slenderness of a reed addresssing an oak . 
And indeed the unbroken record of that man's descent surpassed in the number of centuries the age of the oldest oak in the country . 
No. As far as one can be positive about anything I can assure you that it is not . 
I have been told positively in this very room less than a month ago that nothing of the sort was even possible . 
The Assistant Commissioner glanced in the direction of the window calmly . 
You will allow me to remark , Sir Ethelred , that so far I have had no opportunity to give you assurances of any kind . 
The haughty droop of the eyes was focussed now upon the Assistant Commissioner . 
True , confessed the deep , smooth voice . 
You are still rather a novice in your new berth . 
And how are you getting on over there ? I believe I am learning something every day . 
Of course , of course . 
I hope you will get on . 
Thank you , Sir Ethelred . 
I've learned something to day , and even within the last hour or so . 
There is much in this affair of a kind that does not meet the eye in a usual anarchist outrage , even if one looked into it as deep as can be . 
That's why I am here . 
The great man put his arms akimbo , the backs of his big hands resting on his hips . 
Only no details , pray . 
You shall not be troubled with them , Sir Ethelred , the Assistant Commissioner began , with a calm and untroubled assurance . 
He spoke with a studious fidelity to a parenthetical manner , into which every little fact that is , every detail fitted with delightful ease . 
Not a murmur nor even a movement hinted at interruption . 
The great Personage might have been the statue of one of his own princely ancestors stripped of a crusader's war harness , and put into an ill fitting frock coat . 
The Assistant Commissioner felt as though he were at liberty to talk for an hour . 
The kind of thing which meets us under the surface of this affair , otherwise without gravity , is unusual in this precise form at least and requires special treatment . 
The tone of Sir Ethelred was deepened , full of conviction . 
I should think so involving the Ambassador of a foreign power ! Oh ! The Ambassador ! protested the other , erect and slender , allowing himself a mere half smile . 
It would be stupid of me to advance anything of the kind . 
And it is absolutely unnecessary , because if I am right in my surmises , whether ambassador or hall porter it's a mere detail . 
No ! These people are too impossible . 
What do they mean by importing their methods of Crim Tartary here ? A Turk would have more decency . 
You forget , Sir Ethelred , that strictly speaking we know nothing positively as yet . 
No ! But how would you define it ? Shortly ? Barefaced audacity amounting to childishness of a peculiar sort . 
We can't put up with the innocence of nasty little children , said the great and expanded personage , expanding a little more , as it were . 
The haughty drooping glance struck crushingly the carpet at the Assistant Commissioner's feet . 
They'll have to get a hard rap on the knuckles over this affair . 
We must be in a position to What is your general idea , stated shortly ? No need to go into details . 
That the spy will fabricate his information is a mere commonplace . 
However , this is an imperfect world The deep voiced Presence on the hearthrug , motionless , with big elbows stuck out , said hastily Be lucid , please . 
Yes , Sir Ethelred An imperfect world . 
Therefore directly the character of this affair suggested itself to me , I thought it should be dealt with with special secrecy , and ventured to come over here . 
That's right , approved the great Personage , glancing down complacently over his double chin . 
I am glad there's somebody over at your shop who thinks that the Secretary of State may be trusted now and then . 
The Assistant Commissioner had an amused smile . 
Pray , Sir Ethelred , don't put that unjust interpretation on my remarks . 
Then what ? Too clever by half ? Neither at least not as a rule . 
All the grounds of my surmises I have from him . 
The only thing I've discovered by myself is that he has been making use of that man privately . 
Who could blame him ? He's an old police hand . 
He told me virtually that he must have tools to work with . 
It occurred to me that this tool should be surrendered to the Special Crimes division as a whole , instead of remaining the private property of Chief Inspector Heat . 
I extend my conception of our departmental duties to the suppression of the secret agent . 
But Chief Inspector Heat is an old departmental hand . 
He would accuse me of perverting its morality and attacking its efficiency . 
He would define it bitterly as protection extended to the criminal class of revolutionises . 
It would mean just that to him . 
This , I fancy , is much more frequent than we suppose . 
Next , it's obvious that the existence of these people in the pay of foreign governments destroys in a measure the efficiency of our supervision . 
A spy of that sort can afford to be more reckless than the most reckless of conspirators . 
His occupation is free from all restraint . 
He's without as much faith as is necessary for complete negation , and without that much law as is implied in lawlessness . 
Thirdly , the existence of these spies amongst the revolutionary groups , which we are reproached for harbouring here , does away with all certitude . 
You have received a reassuring statement from Chief Inspector Heat some time ago . 
It was by no means groundless and yet this episode happens . 
I call it an episode , because this affair , I make bold to say , is episodic it is no part of any general scheme , however wild . 
The very peculiarities which surprise and perplex Chief Inspector Heat establish its character in my eyes . 
I am keeping clear of details , Sir Ethelred . 
The Personage on the hearthrug had been listening with profound attention . 
Be as concise as you can . 
The Assistant Commissioner intimated by an earnest deferential gesture that he was anxious to be concise . 
There is a peculiar stupidity and feebleness in the conduct of this affair which gives me excellent hopes of getting behind it and finding there something else than an individual freak of fanaticism . 
For it is a planned thing , undoubtedly . 
The actual perpetrator seems to have been led by the hand to the spot , and then abandoned hurriedly to his own devices . 
The inference is that he was imported from abroad for the purpose of committing this outrage . 
I wonder now But this is idle . 
He has destroyed himself by an accident , obviously . 
But an extraordinary little fact remains the address on his clothing discovered by the merest accident , too . 
It is an incredible little fact , so incredible that the explanation which will account for it is bound to touch the bottom of this affair . 
Instead of instructing Heat to go on with this case , my intention is to seek this explanation personally by myself , I mean where it may be picked up . 
The Assistant Commissioner paused , then added Those fellows are a perfect pest . 
In order to raise his drooping glance to the speaker's face , the Personage on the hearthrug had gradually tilted his head farther back , which gave him an aspect of extraordinary haughtiness . 
Why not leave it to Heat ? Because he is an old departmental hand . 
They have their own morality . 
My line of inquiry would appear to him an awful perversion of duty . 
I am trying to be as lucid as I can in presenting this obscure matter to you without details . 
He would , would he ? muttered the proud head of Sir Ethelred from its lofty elevation . 
I am afraid so with an indignation and disgust of which you or I can have no idea . 
We must not put an undue strain on his loyalty . 
Besides , I want a free hand a freer hand than it would be perhaps advisable to give Chief Inspector Heat . 
I haven't the slightest wish to spare this man Verloc . 
He will , I imagine , be extremely startled to find his connection with this affair , whatever it may be , brought home to him so quickly . 
Frightening him will not be very difficult . 
But our true objective lies behind him somewhere . 
I want your authority to give him such assurances of personal safety as I may think proper . 
Certainly , said the Personage on the hearthrug . 
Find out as much as you can find it out in your own way . 
I must set about it without loss of time , this very evening , said the Assistant Commissioner . 
Sir Ethelred shifted one hand under his coat tails , and tilting back his head , looked at him steadily . 
We'll have a late sitting to night , he said . 
Come to the House with your discoveries if we are not gone home . 
I'll warn Toodles to look out for you . 
He'll take you into my room . 
The numerous family and the wide connections of the youthful looking Private Secretary cherished for him the hope of an austere and exalted destiny . 
Meantime the social sphere he adorned in his hours of idleness chose to pet him under the above nickname . 
, had conferred upon it the dignity of unsmiling adoption . 
The Assistant Commissioner was surprised and gratified extremely . 
I shall certainly bring my discoveries to the House on the chance of you having the time to I won't have the time , interrupted the great Personage . 
But I will see you . 
I haven't the time now And you are going yourself ? Yes , Sir Ethelred . 
I think it the best way . 
The Personage had tilted his head so far back that , in order to keep the Assistant Commissioner under his observation , he had to nearly close his eyes . 
Ha ! And how do you propose Will you assume a disguise ? Hardly a disguise ! I'll change my clothes , of course . 
Of course , repeated the great man , with a sort of absent minded loftiness . 
He turned his big head slowly , and over his shoulder gave a haughty oblique stare to the ponderous marble timepiece with the sly , feeble tick . 
The gilt hands had taken the opportunity to steal through no less than five and twenty minutes behind his back . 
The Assistant Commissioner , who could not see them , grew a little nervous in the interval . 
But the great man presented to him a calm and undismayed face . 
Very well , he said , and paused , as if in deliberate contempt of the official clock . 
But what first put you in motion in this direction ? I have been always of opinion , began the Assistant Commissioner . 
But the immediate motive ? What shall I say , Sir Ethelred ? A new man's antagonism to old methods . 
A desire to know something at first hand . 
It's my old work , but the harness is different . 
It has been chafing me a little in one or two tender places . 
The Assistant Commissioner shook it , and withdrew . 
In the outer room Toodles , who had been waiting perched on the edge of a table , advanced to meet him , subduing his natural buoyancy . 
Well ? Satisfactory ? he asked , with airy importance . 
But seriously , you can't imagine how irritated he is by the attacks on his Bill for the Nationalisation of Fisheries . 
They call it the beginning of social revolution . 
Of course , it is a revolutionary measure . 
But these fellows have no decency . 
The personal attacks I read the papers , remarked the Assistant Commissioner . 
Odious ? Eh ? And you have no notion what a mass of work he has got to get through every day . 
He does it all himself . 
Seems unable to trust anyone with these Fisheries . 
And yet he's given a whole half hour to the consideration of my very small sprat , interjected the Assistant Commissioner . 
Small ! Is it ? I'm glad to hear that . 
But it's a pity you didn't keep away , then . 
This fight takes it out of him frightfully . 
I feel it by the way he leans on my arm as we walk over . 
And , I say , is he safe in the streets ? Mullins has been marching his men up here this afternoon . 
There's a constable stuck by every lamp post , and every second person we meet between this and Palace Yard is an obvious tec . 
It will get on his nerves presently . 
I say , these foreign scoundrels aren't likely to throw something at him are they ? It would be a national calamity . 
The country can't spare him . 
He leans on your arm , suggested the Assistant Commissioner soberly . 
It would be an easy way for a young man to go down into history ? Not so many British Ministers have been assassinated as to make it a minor incident . 
But seriously now I am afraid that if you want to go down into history you'll have to do something for it . 
Seriously , there's no danger whatever for both of you but from overwork . 
The sympathetic Toodles welcomed this opening for a chuckle . 
The Fisheries won't kill me . 
I am used to late hours , he declared , with ingenuous levity . 
But , feeling an instant compunction , he began to assume an air of statesman like moodiness , as one draws on a glove . 
His massive intellect will stand any amount of work . 
It's his nerves that I am afraid of . 
The reactionary gang , with that abusive brute Cheeseman at their head , insult him every night . 
If he will insist on beginning a revolution ! murmured the Assistant Commissioner . 
Somewhere in a corridor a distant bell tinkled urgently , and with devoted vigilance the young man pricked up his ears at the sound . 
He's ready to go now , he exclaimed in a whisper , snatched up his hat , and vanished from the room . 
The Assistant Commissioner went out by another door in a less elastic manner . 
Again he crossed the wide thoroughfare , walked along a narrow street , and re entered hastily his own departmental buildings . 
He kept up this accelerated pace to the door of his private room . 
Before he had closed it fairly his eyes sought his desk . 
He stood still for a moment , then walked up , looked all round on the floor , sat down in his chair , rang a bell , and waited . 
Chief Inspector Heat gone yet ? Yes , sir . 
Went away half an hour ago . 
And sitting still , with his hat pushed off his forehead , he thought that it was just like Heat's confounded cheek to carry off quietly the only piece of material evidence . 
But he thought this without animosity . 
Old and valued servants will take liberties . 
The piece of overcoat with the address sewn on was certainly not a thing to leave about . 
He left the scene of his daily labours quickly like an unobtrusive shadow . 
His descent into the street was like the descent into a slimy aquarium from which the water had been run off . 
A murky , gloomy dampness enveloped him . 
He might have been but one more of the queer foreign fish that can be seen of an evening about there flitting round the dark corners . 
He came to a stand on the very edge of the pavement , and waited . 
His exercised eyes had made out in the confused movements of lights and shadows thronging the roadway the crawling approach of a hansom . 
It was not a long drive . 
Tendering a coin through the trap door the fare slipped out and away , leaving an effect of uncanny , eccentric ghastliness upon the driver's mind . 
Raised above the world of fares by the nature of his calling , he contemplated their actions with a limited interest . 
The sharp pulling of his horse right round expressed his philosophy . 
In this immoral atmosphere the Assistant Commissioner , reflecting upon his enterprise , seemed to lose some more of his identity . 
He had a sense of loneliness , of evil freedom . 
He contemplated his own image with a melancholy and inquisitive gaze , then by sudden inspiration raised the collar of his jacket . 
This arrangement appeared to him commendable , and he completed it by giving an upward twist to the ends of his black moustache . 
He was satisfied by the subtle modification of his personal aspect caused by these small changes . 
That'll do very well , he thought . 
She seemed to be a habitual customer . 
On going out the Assistant Commissioner made to himself the observation that the patrons of the place had lost in the frequentation of fraudulent cookery all their national and private characteristics . 
And this was strange , since the Italian restaurant is such a peculiarly British institution . 
But these people were as denationalised as the dishes set before them with every circumstance of unstamped respectability . 
Neither was their personality stamped in any way , professionally , socially or racially . 
They seemed created for the Italian restaurant , unless the Italian restaurant had been perchance created for them . 
But that last hypothesis was unthinkable , since one could not place them anywhere outside those special establishments . 
One never met these enigmatical persons elsewhere . 
It was impossible to form a precise idea what occupations they followed by day and where they went to bed at night . 
And he himself had become unplaced . 
It would have been impossible for anybody to guess his occupation . 
As to going to bed , there was a doubt even in his own mind . 
Not indeed in regard to his domicile itself , but very much so in respect of the time when he would be able to return there . 
A pleasurable feeling of independence possessed him when he heard the glass doors swing to behind his back with a sort of imperfect baffled thud . 
Brett Street was not very far away . 
It branched off , narrow , from the side of an open triangular space surrounded by dark and mysterious houses , temples of petty commerce emptied of traders for the night . 
Only a fruiterer's stall at the corner made a violent blaze of light and colour . 
Beyond all was black , and the few people passing in that direction vanished at one stride beyond the glowing heaps of oranges and lemons . 
They would never be heard of again . 
The adventurous head of the Special Crimes Department watched these disappearances from a distance with an interested eye . 
He felt light hearted , as though he had been ambushed all alone in a jungle many thousands of miles away from departmental desks and official inkstands . 
This joyousness and dispersion of thought before a task of some importance seems to prove that this world of ours is not such a very serious affair after all . 
For the Assistant Commissioner was not constitutionally inclined to levity . 
The policeman on the beat projected his sombre and moving form against the luminous glory of oranges and lemons , and entered Brett Street without haste . 
The Assistant Commissioner , as though he were a member of the criminal classes , lingered out of sight , awaiting his return . 
But this constable seemed to be lost for ever to the force . 
He never returned must have gone out at the other end of Brett Street . 
The man was refreshing himself inside , and the horses , their big heads lowered to the ground , fed out of nose bags steadily . 
The Assistant Commissioner stood observing it across the roadway . 
There could be no mistake . 
The harshly festive , ill omened glare of a large and prosperous public house faced the other end of Brett Street across a wide road . 
, Mrs Verloc's mother had at last secured her admission to certain almshouses founded by a wealthy innkeeper for the destitute widows of the trade . 
This end , conceived in the astuteness of her uneasy heart , the old woman had pursued with secrecy and determination . 
But the remark was not made grudgingly . 
Winnie respected her mother's infirmities . 
She was only a little surprised at this sudden mania for locomotion . 
Mr Verloc , who was sufficiently magnificent in his way , had grunted the remark impatiently aside as interfering with his meditations . 
These were frequent , deep , and prolonged they bore upon a matter more important than five shillings . 
Distinctly more important , and beyond all comparison more difficult to consider in all its aspects with philosophical serenity . 
Her object attained in astute secrecy , the heroic old woman had made a clean breast of it to Mrs Verloc . 
Her soul was triumphant and her heart tremulous . 
Inwardly she quaked , because she dreaded and admired the calm , self contained character of her daughter Winnie , whose displeasure was made redoubtable by a diversity of dreadful silences . 
The shock of the information was so unexpected that Mrs Verloc , against her usual practice when addressed , interrupted the domestic occupation she was engaged upon . 
It was the dusting of the furniture in the parlour behind the shop . 
She turned her head towards her mother . 
Whatever did you want to do that for ? she exclaimed , in scandalised astonishment . 
The shock must have been severe to make her depart from that distant and uninquiring acceptance of facts which was her force and her safeguard in life . 
Winnie finished the chair , and ran the duster along the mahogany at the back of the horse hair sofa on which Mr Verloc loved to take his ease in hat and overcoat . 
She was intent on her work , but presently she permitted herself another question . 
How in the world did you manage it , mother ? As not affecting the inwardness of things , which it was Mrs Verloc's principle to ignore , this curiosity was excusable . 
It bore merely on the methods . 
The old woman welcomed it eagerly as bringing forward something that could be talked about with much sincerity . 
She favoured her daughter by an exhaustive answer , full of names and enriched by side comments upon the ravages of time as observed in the alteration of human countenances . 
The names were principally the names of licensed victuallers poor daddy's friends , my dear . 
She enlarged with special appreciation on the kindness and condescension of a large brewer , a Baronet and an M. P. , the Chairman of the Governors of the Charity . 
He was like a shadow , my dear . 
in her usual manner , without the slightest comment . 
As to Mr Verloc , his intense meditation , like a sort of Chinese wall , isolated him completely from the phenomena of this world of vain effort and illusory appearances . 
Her selection made , the disposal of the rest became a perplexing question in a particular way . 
She was leaving it in Brett Street , of course . 
But she had two children . 
Winnie was provided for by her sensible union with that excellent husband , Mr Verloc . 
Stevie was destitute and a little peculiar . 
His position had to be considered before the claims of legal justice and even the promptings of partiality . 
The possession of the furniture would not be in any sense a provision . 
He ought to have it the poor boy . 
But to give it to him would be like tampering with his position of complete dependence . 
It was a sort of claim which she feared to weaken . 
Moreover , the susceptibilities of Mr Verloc would perhaps not brook being beholden to his brother in law for the chairs he sat on . 
In a long experience of gentlemen lodgers , Mrs Verloc's mother had acquired a dismal but resigned notion of the fantastic side of human nature . 
No , Stevie must remain destitute and dependent . 
Winnie , with her hat on , silent behind her mother's back , went on arranging the collar of the old woman's cloak . 
She got her hand bag , an umbrella , with an impassive face . 
The time had come for the expenditure of the sum of three and sixpence on what might well be supposed the last cab drive of Mrs Verloc's mother's life . 
They went out at the shop door . 
The conveyance awaiting them would have illustrated the proverb that truth can be more cruel than caricature , if such a proverb existed . 
Crawling behind an infirm horse , a metropolitan hackney carriage drew up on wobbly wheels and with a maimed driver on the box . 
This last peculiarity caused some embarrassment . 
Catching sight of a hooked iron contrivance protruding from the left sleeve of the man's coat , Mrs Verloc's mother lost suddenly the heroic courage of these days . 
She really couldn't trust herself . 
What do you think , Winnie ? She hung back . 
The passionate expostulations of the big faced cabman seemed to be squeezed out of a blocked throat . 
Leaning over from his box , he whispered with mysterious indignation . 
What was the matter now ? Was it possible to treat a man so ? His enormous and unwashed countenance flamed red in the muddy stretch of the street . 
I never knew him to have an accident . 
Accident ! shouted the driver in a scornful whisper . 
The policeman's testimony settled it . 
The modest assemblage of seven people , mostly under age , dispersed . 
Winnie followed her mother into the cab . 
Stevie climbed on the box . 
His vacant mouth and distressed eyes depicted the state of his mind in regard to the transactions which were taking place . 
Later on , in the wider space of Whitehall , all visual evidences of motion became imperceptible . 
The rattle and jingle of glass went on indefinitely in front of the long Treasury building and time itself seemed to stand still . 
At last Winnie observed This isn't a very good horse . 
Her eyes gleamed in the shadow of the cab straight ahead , immovable . 
On the box , Stevie shut his vacant mouth first , in order to ejaculate earnestly Don't . 
The driver , holding high the reins twisted around the hook , took no notice . 
Perhaps he had not heard . 
The man turned slowly his bloated and sodden face of many colours bristling with white hairs . 
His little red eyes glistened with moisture . 
His big lips had a violet tint . 
With the dirty back of his whip hand he rubbed the stubble sprouting on his enormous chin . 
You mustn't , stammered out Stevie violently . 
Mustn't whip , queried the other in a thoughtful whisper , and immediately whipped . 
He did this , not because his soul was cruel and his heart evil , but because he had to earn his fare . 
And for a time the walls of St Stephen's , with its towers and pinnacles , contemplated in immobility and silence a cab that jingled . 
It rolled too , however . 
But on the bridge there was a commotion . 
Stevie suddenly proceeded to get down from the box . 
There were shouts on the pavement , people ran forward , the driver pulled up , whispering curses of indignation and astonishment . 
Winnie lowered the window , and put her head out , white as a ghost . 
He could do no more than stammer at the window . 
Winnie put out her hand on to his shoulder . 
Stevie ! Get up on the box directly , and don't try to get down again . 
In trying to state the nature of that necessity he stammered himself into utter incoherence . 
No physical impossibility stood in the way of his whim . 
Stevie could have managed easily to keep pace with the infirm , dancing horse without getting out of breath . 
But his sister withheld her consent decisively . 
What next ! Mr Verloc will be sorry to hear of this nonsense , Stevie , I can tell you . 
He won't be happy at all . 
The cabby turned at him his enormous and inflamed countenance truculently . 
Don't you go for trying this silly game again , young fellow . 
After delivering himself thus in a stern whisper , strained almost to extinction , he drove on , ruminating solemnly . 
To his mind the incident remained somewhat obscure . 
But his intellect , though it had lost its pristine vivacity in the benumbing years of sedentary exposure to the weather , lacked not independence or sanity . 
Gravely he dismissed the hypothesis of Stevie being a drunken young nipper . 
You've done what you wanted , mother . 
You'll have only yourself to thank for it if you aren't happy afterwards . 
And I don't think you'll be . 
As to Mr Verloc there Words failing her on the subject of Mr Verloc's excellence , she turned her old tearful eyes to the roof of the cab . 
Then she averted her head on the pretence of looking out of the window , as if to judge of their progress . 
It was insignificant , and went on close to the curbstone . 
Night , the early dirty night , the sinister , noisy , hopeless and rowdy night of South London , had overtaken her on her last cab drive . 
In the gas light of the low fronted shops her big cheeks glowed with an orange hue under a black and mauve bonnet . 
It was a complexion , that under the influence of a blush would take on an orange tint . 
And this woman , modest indeed but hardened in the fires of adversity , of an age , moreover , when blushes are not expected , had positively blushed before her daughter . 
She had not known before what a good beggar she could be . 
But she guessed very well what inference was drawn from her application . 
On account of that shrinking delicacy , which exists side by side with aggressive brutality in masculine nature , the inquiries into her circumstances had not been pushed very far . 
She had checked them by a visible compression of the lips and some display of an emotion determined to be eloquently silent . 
And the men would become suddenly incurious , after the manner of their kind . 
The thin and polite gentleman , after contemplating her with an air of being struck all of a heap , abandoned his position under the cover of soothing remarks . 
She must not distress herself . 
The deed of the Charity did not absolutely specify childless widows . 
In fact , it did not by any means disqualify her . 
But the discretion of the Committee must be an informed discretion . 
One could understand very well her unwillingness to be a burden , etc . 
Thereupon , to his profound disappointment , Mrs Verloc's mother wept some more with an augmented vehemence . 
The tears of that large female in a dark , dusty wig , and ancient silk dress festooned with dingy white cotton lace , were the tears of genuine distress . 
She had wept because she was heroic and unscrupulous and full of love for both her children . 
Girls frequently get sacrificed to the welfare of the boys . 
In this case she was sacrificing Winnie . 
By the suppression of truth she was slandering her . 
, and Mrs Verloc's mother , in the seclusion of the back bedroom , had recalled the teaching of that experience which the world impresses upon a widowed woman . 
But she had recalled it without vain bitterness her store of resignation amounted almost to dignity . 
As regards Winnie's sisterly devotion , her stoicism flinched . 
She excepted that sentiment from the rule of decay affecting all things human and some things divine . 
She could not help it not to do so would have frightened her too much . 
But in considering the conditions of her daughter's married state , she rejected firmly all flattering illusions . 
She took the cold and reasonable view that the less strain put on Mr Verloc's kindness the longer its effects were likely to last . 
It would be better if its whole effect were concentrated on poor Stevie . 
And the heroic old woman resolved on going away from her children as an act of devotion and as a move of deep policy . 
, that Stevie's moral claim would be strengthened . 
The poor boy a good , useful boy , if a little peculiar had not a sufficient standing . 
, when I die ? And when she asked herself that question it was with dread . 
It was also terrible to think that she would not then have the means of knowing what happened to the poor boy . 
But by making him over to his sister , by going thus away , she gave him the advantage of a directly dependent position . 
This was the more subtle sanction of Mrs Verloc's mother's heroism and unscrupulousness . 
Her act of abandonment was really an arrangement for settling her son permanently in life . 
Other people made material sacrifices for such an object , she in that way . 
It was the only way . 
Moreover , she would be able to see how it worked . 
Ill or well she would avoid the horrible incertitude on the death bed . 
But it was hard , hard , cruelly hard . 
The cab rattled , jingled , jolted in fact , the last was quite extraordinary . 
It was extremely distressing and the raising of Mrs Verloc's mother's voice sounded like a wail of pain . 
I know , my dear , you'll come to see me as often as you can spare the time . 
Won't you ? Of course , answered Winnie shortly , staring straight before her . 
And the cab jolted in front of a steamy , greasy shop in a blaze of gas and in the smell of fried fish . 
The old woman raised a wail again . 
And , my dear , I must see that poor boy every Sunday . 
He won't mind spending the day with his old mother Winnie screamed out stolidly Mind ! I should think not . 
That poor boy will miss you something cruel . 
I wish you had thought a little of that , mother . 
Not think of it ! The heroic woman swallowed a playful and inconvenient object like a billiard ball , which had tried to jump out of her throat . 
Thus they discussed on familiar lines the bearings of a new situation . 
Mrs Verloc's mother expressed some misgivings . 
Could Stevie be trusted to come all that way alone ? Winnie maintained that he was much less absent minded now . 
They agreed as to that . 
It could not be denied . 
Much less hardly at all . 
They shouted at each other in the jingle with comparative cheerfulness . 
But suddenly the maternal anxiety broke out afresh . 
There were two omnibuses to take , and a short walk between . 
It was too difficult ! The old woman gave way to grief and consternation . 
Don't you upset yourself like this , mother . 
You must see him , of course . 
She mopped her streaming eyes . 
For she was a proud woman . 
Winnie's stare had grown hard , intent , inventive . 
I can't bring him to you myself every week , she cried . 
But don't you worry , mother . 
I'll see to it that he don't get lost for long . 
They felt a peculiar bump a vision of brick pillars lingered before the rattling windows of the cab a sudden cessation of atrocious jolting and uproarious jingling dazed the two women . 
Before the door of one of these tiny houses one without a light in the little downstairs window the cab had come to a standstill . 
Mrs Verloc's mother got out first , backwards , with a key in her hand . 
Winnie lingered on the flagstone path to pay the cabman . 
Stevie , after helping to carry inside a lot of small parcels , came out and stood under the light of a gas lamp belonging to the Charity . 
He had been paid decently four one shilling pieces and he contemplated them in perfect stillness , as if they had been the surprising terms of a melancholy problem . 
The slow transfer of that treasure to an inner pocket demanded much laborious groping in the depths of decayed clothing . 
His form was squat and without flexibility . 
Stevie , slender , his shoulders a little up , and his hands thrust deep in the side pockets of his warm overcoat , stood at the edge of the path , pouting . 
The cabman , pausing in his deliberate movements , seemed struck by some misty recollection . 
Oh ! Ere you are , young fellow , he whispered . 
You'll know him again won't you ? Stevie was staring at the horse , whose hind quarters appeared unduly elevated by the effect of emaciation . 
The ears hung at different angles , negligently and the macabre figure of that mute dweller on the earth steamed straight up from ribs and backbone in the muggy stillness of the air . 
The cabman struck lightly Stevie's breast with the iron hook protruding from a ragged , greasy sleeve . 
Look ere , young feller . 
Ow'd YOU like to sit behind this oss up to two o'clock in the morning p'raps ? Stevie looked vacantly into the fierce little eyes with red edged lids . 
He ain't lame , pursued the other , whispering with energy . 
He ain't got no sore places on im . 
Ow would YOU like His strained , extinct voice invested his utterance with a character of vehement secrecy . 
Stevie's vacant gaze was changing slowly into dread . 
You may well look ! Till three and four o'clock in the morning . 
I am a night cabby , I am , he whispered , with a sort of boastful exasperation . 
I've got to take out what they will blooming well give me at the yard . 
I've got my missus and four kids at ome . 
The monstrous nature of that declaration of paternity seemed to strike the world dumb . 
A silence reigned during which the flanks of the old horse , the steed of apocalyptic misery , smoked upwards in the light of the charitable gas lamp . 
The cabman grunted , then added in his mysterious whisper This ain't an easy world . 
Stevie's face had been twitching for some time , and at last his feelings burst out in their usual concise form . 
And his slenderness , his rosy lips and pale , clear complexion , gave him the aspect of a delicate boy , notwithstanding the fluffy growth of golden hair on his cheeks . 
He pouted in a scared way like a child . 
The cabman , short and broad , eyed him with his fierce little eyes that seemed to smart in a clear and corroding liquid . 
'Ard on osses , but dam' sight arder on poor chaps like me , he wheezed just audibly . 
Poor ! Poor ! stammered out Stevie , pushing his hands deeper into his pockets with convulsive sympathy . 
And that , he knew , was impossible . 
For Stevie was not mad . 
It was , as it were , a symbolic longing and at the same time it was very distinct , because springing from experience , the mother of wisdom . 
Stevie , though apt to forget mere facts , such as his name and address for instance , had a faithful memory of sensations . 
To be taken into a bed of compassion was the supreme remedy , with the only one disadvantage of being difficult of application on a large scale . 
And looking at the cabman , Stevie perceived this clearly , because he was reasonable . 
The cabman went on with his leisurely preparations as if Stevie had not existed . 
He made as if to hoist himself on the box , but at the last moment from some obscure motive , perhaps merely from disgust with carriage exercise , desisted . 
Come on , he whispered secretly . 
Limping , he led the cab away . 
The plaint of the gravel travelled slowly all round the drive . 
They turned to the left . 
There was a pub down the street , within fifty yards of the gate . 
Stevie left alone beside the private lamp post of the Charity , his hands thrust deep into his pockets , glared with vacant sulkiness . 
At the bottom of his pockets his incapable weak hands were clinched hard into a pair of angry fists . 
In the face of anything which affected directly or indirectly his morbid dread of pain , Stevie ended by turning vicious . 
A magnanimous indignation swelled his frail chest to bursting , and caused his candid eyes to squint . 
Supremely wise in knowing his own powerlessness , Stevie was not wise enough to restrain his passions . 
The tenderness of his universal charity had two phases as indissolubly joined and connected as the reverse and obverse sides of a medal . 
The anguish of immoderate compassion was succeeded by the pain of an innocent but pitiless rage . 
Those two states expressing themselves outwardly by the same signs of futile bodily agitation , his sister Winnie soothed his excitement without ever fathoming its twofold character . 
Mrs Verloc wasted no portion of this transient life in seeking for fundamental information . 
This is a sort of economy having all the appearances and some of the advantages of prudence . 
Obviously it may be good for one not to know too much . 
And such a view accords very well with constitutional indolence . 
The poor boy was excited , of course . 
Stevie did not even mutter to himself , but with the special sense of sisterly devotion developed in her earliest infancy , she felt that the boy was very much excited indeed . 
Holding tight to his arm , under the appearance of leaning on it , she thought of some words suitable to the occasion . 
Now , Stevie , you must look well after me at the crossings , and get first into the bus , like a good brother . 
This appeal to manly protection was received by Stevie with his usual docility . 
He raised his head and threw out his chest . 
Don't be nervous , Winnie . 
Mustn't be nervous ! Bus all right , he answered in a brusque , slurring stammer partaking of the timorousness of a child and the resolution of a man . 
He advanced fearlessly with the woman on his arm , but his lower lip dropped . 
Mrs Verloc recognised the conveyance . 
, exclaimed vaguely Poor brute Hanging back suddenly , Stevie inflicted an arresting jerk upon his sister . 
Poor ! Poor ! he ejaculated appreciatively . 
The contemplation of the infirm and lonely steed overcame him . 
Jostled , but obstinate , he would remain there , trying to express the view newly opened to his sympathies of the human and equine misery in close association . 
But it was very difficult . 
Poor brute , poor people ! was all he could repeat . 
But he felt with greater completeness and some profundity . 
And Stevie knew what it was to be beaten . 
He knew it from experience . 
It was a bad world . 
Bad ! Bad ! Mrs Verloc , his only sister , guardian , and protector , could not pretend to such depths of insight . 
Moreover , she had not experienced the magic of the cabman's eloquence . 
She was in the dark as to the inwardness of the word Shame . 
And she said placidly Come along , Stevie . 
It was as though he had been trying to fit all the words he could remember to his sentiments in order to get some sort of corresponding idea . 
And , as a matter of fact , he got it at last . 
He hung back to utter it at once . 
Bad world for poor people . 
Directly he had expressed that thought he became aware that it was familiar to him already in all its consequences . 
This circumstance strengthened his conviction immensely , but also augmented his indignation . 
Somebody , he felt , ought to be punished for it punished with great severity . 
Being no sceptic , but a moral creature , he was in a manner at the mercy of his righteous passions . 
Beastly ! he added concisely . 
It was clear to Mrs Verloc that he was greatly excited . 
Nobody can help that , she said . 
Is that the way you're taking care of me ? Stevie mended his pace obediently . 
He prided himself on being a good brother . 
His morality , which was very complete , demanded that from him . 
Yet he was pained at the information imparted by his sister Winnie who was good . 
Nobody could help that ! He came along gloomily , but presently he brightened up . 
Like the rest of mankind , perplexed by the mystery of the universe , he had his moments of consoling trust in the organised powers of the earth . 
Police , he suggested confidently . 
The police aren't for that , observed Mrs Verloc cursorily , hurrying on her way . 
The more intense his thinking , the slacker was the droop of his lower jaw . 
And it was with an aspect of hopeless vacancy that he gave up his intellectual enterprise . 
Not for that ? he mumbled , resigned but surprised . 
Not for that ? He had formed for himself an ideal conception of the metropolitan police as a sort of benevolent institution for the suppression of evil . 
The notion of benevolence especially was very closely associated with his sense of the power of the men in blue . 
He had liked all police constables tenderly , with a guileless trustfulness . 
He was irritated , too , by a suspicion of duplicity in the members of the force . 
For Stevie was frank and as open as the day himself . 
What did they mean by pretending then ? Unlike his sister , who put her trust in face values , he wished to go to the bottom of the matter . 
He carried on his inquiry by means of an angry challenge . 
What for are they then , Winn ? What are they for ? Tell me . 
But fearing most a fit of black depression consequent on Stevie missing his mother very much at first , she did not altogether decline the discussion . 
Don't you know what the police are for , Stevie ? They are there so that them as have nothing shouldn't take anything away from them who have . 
She avoided using the verb to steal , because it always made her brother uncomfortable . 
For Stevie was delicately honest . 
that the mere names of certain transgressions filled him with horror . 
He had been always easily impressed by speeches . 
He was impressed and startled now , and his intelligence was very alert . 
What ? he asked at once anxiously . 
Not even if they were hungry ? Mustn't they ? The two had paused in their walk . 
But what's the use of talking about all that ? You aren't ever hungry . 
She cast a swift glance at the boy , like a young man , by her side . 
She saw him amiable , attractive , affectionate , and only a little , a very little , peculiar . 
She did not add And you aren't likely ever to be as long as I live . 
But she might very well have done so , since she had taken effectual steps to that end . 
Mr Verloc was a very good husband . 
It was her honest impression that nobody could help liking the boy . 
She cried out suddenly Quick , Stevie . 
And Stevie , tremulous and important with his sister Winnie on his arm , flung up the other high above his head at the approaching bus , with complete success . 
The sight of his wife was agreeable to Mr Verloc . 
He looked after his wife fixedly , without a word , as though she had been a phantom . 
His voice for home use was husky and placid , but now it was heard not at all . 
It was not heard at supper , to which he was called by his wife in the usual brief manner Adolf . 
He sat down to consume it without conviction , wearing his hat pushed far back on his head . 
Twice at the clatter of the cracked bell he arose without a word , disappeared into the shop , and came back silently . 
He directed at him glances of respectful compassion . 
that Mr Verloc would be found at home in a state of sorrow , and must not be worried . 
His father's anger , the irritability of gentlemen lodgers , and Mr Verloc's predisposition to immoderate grief , had been the main sanctions of Stevie's self restraint . 
Of these sentiments , all easily provoked , but not always easy to understand , the last had the greatest moral efficiency because Mr Verloc was GOOD . 
His mother and his sister had established that ethical fact on an unshakable foundation . 
They had established , erected , consecrated it behind Mr Verloc's back , for reasons that had nothing to do with abstract morality . 
And Mr Verloc was not aware of it . 
It is but bare justice to him to say that he had no notion of appearing good to Stevie . 
It would have been too cruel . 
And it was even possible that Stevie would not have believed them . 
As far as Mr Verloc was concerned , nothing could stand in the way of Stevie's belief . 
Mr Verloc was obviously yet mysteriously GOOD . 
And the grief of a good man is august . 
Stevie gave glances of reverential compassion to his brother in law . 
The brother of Winnie had never before felt himself in such close communion with the mystery of that man's goodness . 
It was an understandable sorrow . 
And Stevie himself was sorry . 
The same sort of sorrow . 
And his attention being drawn to this unpleasant state , Stevie shuffled his feet . 
His feelings were habitually manifested by the agitation of his limbs . 
The mere suggestion seemed repugnant to Mr Verloc . 
He shook his head moodily , and then sat still with downcast eyes , looking at the piece of cheese on his plate for a whole minute . 
At the end of that time he got up , and went out went right out in the clatter of the shop door bell . 
He acted thus inconsistently , not from any desire to make himself unpleasant , but because of an unconquerable restlessness . 
It was no earthly good going out . 
He could not find anywhere in London what he wanted . 
After locking up the house and putting out the gas he took them upstairs with him a dreadful escort for a man going to bed . 
Her big eyes stared wide open , inert and dark against the snowy whiteness of the linen . 
She had an equable soul . 
She felt profoundly that things do not stand much looking into . 
She made her force and her wisdom of that instinct . 
But the taciturnity of Mr Verloc had been lying heavily upon her for a good many days . 
It was , as a matter of fact , affecting her nerves . 
Recumbent and motionless , she said placidly You'll catch cold walking about in your socks like this . 
This speech , becoming the solicitude of the wife and the prudence of the woman , took Mr Verloc unawares . 
At the sound of his wife's voice he stopped and stared at her with a somnambulistic , expressionless gaze so long that Mrs Verloc moved her limbs slightly under the bed clothes . 
But she did not move her black head sunk in the white pillow one hand under her cheek and the big , dark , unwinking eyes . 
Under her husband's expressionless stare , and remembering her mother's empty room across the landing , she felt an acute pang of loneliness . 
She had never been parted from her mother before . 
They had stood by each other . 
She felt that they had , and she said to herself that now mother was gone gone for good . 
Mrs Verloc had no illusions . 
And she said Mother's done what she wanted to do . 
There's no sense in it that I can see . 
I'm sure she couldn't have thought you had enough of her . 
It's perfectly wicked , leaving us like that . 
He very nearly said so . 
He had grown suspicious and embittered . 
Could it be that the old woman had such an excellent nose ? But the unreasonableness of such a suspicion was patent , and Mr Verloc held his tongue . 
He muttered heavily Perhaps it's just as well . 
Mrs Verloc kept very still , perfectly still , with her eyes fixed in a dreamy , quiet stare . 
And her heart for the fraction of a second seemed to stand still too . 
That night she was not quite herself , as the saying is , and it was borne upon her with some force that a simple sentence may hold several diverse meanings mostly disagreeable . 
How was it just as well ? And why ? But she did not allow herself to fall into the idleness of barren speculation . 
She was rather confirmed in her belief that things did not stand being looked into . 
What I am going to do to cheer up that boy for the first few days I'm sure I don't know . 
He'll be worrying himself from morning till night before he gets used to mother being away . 
And he's such a good boy . 
I couldn't do without him . 
Mr Verloc went on divesting himself of his clothing with the unnoticing inward concentration of a man undressing in the solitude of a vast and hopeless desert . 
For thus inhospitably did this fair earth , our common inheritance , present itself to the mental vision of Mr Verloc . 
All was so still without and within that the lonely ticking of the clock on the landing stole into the room as if for the sake of company . 
Mr Verloc , getting into bed on his own side , remained prone and mute behind Mrs Verloc's back . 
His thick arms rested abandoned on the outside of the counterpane like dropped weapons , like discarded tools . 
At that moment he was within a hair's breadth of making a clean breast of it all to his wife . 
Mr Verloc loved his wife as a wife should be loved that is , maritally , with the regard one has for one's chief possession . 
This head arranged for the night , those ample shoulders , had an aspect of familiar sacredness the sacredness of domestic peace . 
She moved not , massive and shapeless like a recumbent statue in the rough he remembered her wide open eyes looking into the empty room . 
She was mysterious , with the mysteriousness of living beings . 
The far famed secret agent delta of the late Baron Stott Wartenheim's alarmist despatches was not the man to break into such mysteries . 
And he was also indolent , with the indolence which is so often the secret of good nature . 
He forbore touching that mystery out of love , timidity , and indolence . 
There would be always time enough . 
For several minutes he bore his sufferings silently in the drowsy silence of the room . 
And then he disturbed it by a resolute declaration . 
I am going on the Continent to morrow . 
His wife might have fallen asleep already . 
As a matter of fact , Mrs Verloc had heard him . 
Her eyes remained very wide open , and she lay very still , confirmed in her instinctive conviction that things don't bear looking into very much . 
And yet it was nothing very unusual for Mr Verloc to take such a trip . 
He renewed his stock from Paris and Brussels . 
Often he went over to make his purchases personally . 
He waited for a while , then added I'll be away a week or perhaps a fortnight . 
Get Mrs Neale to come for the day . 
Mrs Neale was the charwoman of Brett Street . 
Victim of her marriage with a debauched joiner , she was oppressed by the needs of many infant children . 
Mrs Verloc , full of deep purpose , spoke in the tone of the shallowest indifference . 
There is no need to have the woman here all day . 
I shall do very well with Stevie . 
He entered in the clatter of the shop bell with an air of sombre and vexed exhaustion . 
Stevie , dusting various objects displayed in the front windows , turned to gape at him with reverence and awe . 
Here ! said Mr Verloc , giving a slight kick to the gladstone bag on the floor and Stevie flung himself upon it , seized it , bore it off with triumphant devotion . 
He was so prompt that Mr Verloc was distinctly surprised . 
Winnie came no farther than the inner shop door . 
You'll want some breakfast , she said from a distance . 
Mr Verloc moved his hands slightly , as if overcome by an impossible suggestion . 
But once enticed into the parlour he did not reject the food set before him . 
He ate as if in a public place , his hat pushed off his forehead , the skirts of his heavy overcoat hanging in a triangle on each side of the chair . 
Mrs Verloc , however , had done no weaving during her husband's absence . 
But she had had all the upstairs room cleaned thoroughly , had sold some wares , had seen Mr Michaelis several times . 
He had told her the last time that he was going away to live in a cottage in the country , somewhere on the London , Chatham , and Dover line . 
Karl Yundt had come too , once , led under the arm by that wicked old housekeeper of his . 
He was a disgusting old man . 
And bringing in her brother Stevie as soon as she could into the current of domestic events , she mentioned that the boy had moped a good deal . 
It's all along of mother leaving us like this . 
It isn't that he doesn't work as well as ever , she continued . 
He's been making himself very useful . 
You'd think he couldn't do enough for us . 
Mr Verloc directed a casual and somnolent glance at Stevie , who sat on his right , delicate , pale faced , his rosy mouth open vacantly . 
It was not a critical glance . 
Leaning back , Mr Verloc uncovered his head . 
Before his extended arm could put down the hat Stevie pounced upon it , and bore it off reverently into the kitchen . 
And again Mr Verloc was surprised . 
You could do anything with that boy , Adolf , Mrs Verloc said , with her best air of inflexible calmness . 
He would go through fire for you . 
He She paused attentive , her ear turned towards the door of the kitchen . 
There Mrs Neale was scrubbing the floor . 
And she followed it with the everlasting plaint of the poor , pathetically mendacious , miserably authenticated by the horrible breath of cheap rum and soap suds . 
She scrubbed hard , snuffling all the time , and talking volubly . 
And on each side of her thin red nose her bleared , misty eyes swam in tears , because she felt really the want of some sort of stimulant in the morning . 
In the parlour Mrs Verloc observed , with knowledge There's Mrs Neale at it again with her harrowing tales about her little children . 
They can't be all so little as she makes them out . 
Some of them must be big enough by now to try to do something for themselves . 
It only makes Stevie angry . 
These words were confirmed by a thud as of a fist striking the kitchen table . 
In the normal evolution of his sympathy Stevie had become angry on discovering that he had no shilling in his pocket . 
In his inability to relieve at once Mrs Neale's little 'uns' , privations he felt that somebody should be made to suffer for it . 
Mrs Verloc rose , and went into the kitchen to stop that nonsense . 
And she did it firmly but gently . 
Mrs Verloc's comment upon this practice had an unexpected profundity , as coming from a person disinclined to look under the surface of things . 
Of course , what is she to do to keep up ? If I were like Mrs Neale I expect I wouldn't act any different . 
For the third time that day Mr Verloc was surprised . 
He stared stupidly at his wife . 
She continued in her steady manner . 
The boy , whenever he was not doing anything , moped in the house . 
It made her uneasy it made her nervous , she confessed . 
And that from the calm Winnie sounded like exaggeration . 
But , in truth , Stevie moped in the striking fashion of an unhappy domestic animal . 
He would go up on the dark landing , to sit on the floor at the foot of the tall clock , with his knees drawn up and his head in his hands . 
To come upon his pallid face , with its big eyes gleaming in the dusk , was discomposing to think of him up there was uncomfortable . 
Mr Verloc got used to the startling novelty of the idea . 
He was fond of his wife as a man should be that is , generously . 
But a weighty objection presented itself to his mind , and he formulated it . 
He'll lose sight of me perhaps , and get lost in the street , he said . 
Mrs Verloc shook her head competently . 
That boy just worships you . 
But if you should miss him Mrs Verloc paused for a moment , but only for a moment . 
You just go on , and have your walk out . 
He's sure to turn up safe here before very long . 
This optimism procured for Mr Verloc his fourth surprise of the day . 
Is he ? he grunted doubtfully . 
But perhaps his brother in law was not such an idiot as he looked . 
His wife would know best . 
Winnie , at the shop door , did not see this fatal attendant upon Mr Verloc's walks . 
The material of their overcoats was the same , their hats were black and round in shape . 
Inspired by the similarity of wearing apparel , Mrs Verloc gave rein to her fancy . 
Might be father and son , she said to herself . 
She thought also that Mr Verloc was as much of a father as poor Stevie ever had in his life . 
She was aware also that it was her work . 
And with peaceful pride she congratulated herself on a certain resolution she had taken a few years before . 
It had cost her some effort , and even a few tears . 
She congratulated herself still more on observing in the course of days that Mr Verloc seemed to be taking kindly to Stevie's companionship . 
In the house Mr Verloc could be detected staring curiously at Stevie a good deal . 
His own demeanour had changed . 
Taciturn still , he was not so listless . 
Mrs Verloc thought that he was rather jumpy at times . 
It might have been regarded as an improvement . 
As to Stevie , he moped no longer at the foot of the clock , but muttered to himself in corners instead in a threatening tone . 
When asked What is it you're saying , Stevie ? he merely opened his mouth , and squinted at his sister . 
This was a change , but it was no improvement . 
Mrs Verloc including all these vagaries under the general definition of excitement , began to fear that Stevie was hearing more than was good for him of her husband's conversations with his friends . 
During his walks Mr Verloc , of course , met and conversed with various persons . 
It could hardly be otherwise . 
His walks were an integral part of his outdoor activities , which his wife had never looked deeply into . 
No ! She feared that there were things not good for Stevie to hear of , she told her husband . 
It only excited the poor boy , because he could not help them being so . 
It was in the shop . 
Mr Verloc made no comment . 
He made no retort , and yet the retort was obvious . 
But he refrained from pointing out to his wife that the idea of making Stevie the companion of his walks was her own , and nobody else's . 
At that moment , to an impartial observer , Mr Verloc would have appeared more than human in his magnanimity . 
He took down a small cardboard box from a shelf , peeped in to see that the contents were all right , and put it down gently on the counter . 
Could not get on without him ! repeated Mrs Verloc slowly . 
I couldn't get on without him if it were for his good ! The idea ! Of course , I can get on without him . 
But there's nowhere for him to go . 
Mr Verloc got out some brown paper and a ball of string and meanwhile he muttered that Michaelis was living in a little cottage in the country . 
Michaelis wouldn't mind giving Stevie a room to sleep in . 
There were no visitors and no talk there . 
Michaelis was writing a book . 
Mrs Verloc declared her affection for Michaelis mentioned her abhorrence of Karl Yundt , nasty old man and of Ossipon she said nothing . 
As to Stevie , he could be no other than very pleased . 
Mr Michaelis was always so nice and kind to him . 
He seemed to like the boy . 
Well , the boy was a good boy . 
You too seem to have grown quite fond of him of late , she added , after a pause , with her inflexible assurance . 
Mr Verloc tying up the cardboard box into a parcel for the post , broke the string by an injudicious jerk , and muttered several swear words confidentially to himself . 
Then raising his tone to the usual husky mutter , he announced his willingness to take Stevie into the country himself , and leave him all safe with Michaelis . 
He carried out this scheme on the very next day . 
He seemed rather eager , in a bewildered sort of way . 
He turned his candid gaze inquisitively to Mr Verloc's heavy countenance at frequent intervals , especially when his sister was not looking at him . 
His expression was proud , apprehensive , and concentrated , like that of a small child entrusted for the first time with a box of matches and the permission to strike a light . 
But Mrs Verloc , gratified by her brother's docility , recommended him not to dirty his clothes unduly in the country . 
At this Stevie gave his sister , guardian and protector a look , which for the first time in his life seemed to lack the quality of perfect childlike trustfulness . 
Goodness me ! You needn't be offended . 
You know you do get yourself very untidy when you get a chance , Stevie . 
Mr Verloc was already gone some way down the street . 
For Mr Verloc had to take his walks . 
She did not mind being alone . 
She had no desire to go out . 
The weather was too bad , and the shop was cosier than the streets . 
Sitting behind the counter with some sewing , she did not raise her eyes from her work when Mr Verloc entered in the aggressive clatter of the bell . 
She had recognised his step on the pavement outside . 
You've been perhaps to see Stevie ? No ! I haven't , said Mr Verloc softly , and slammed the glazed parlour door behind him with unexpected energy . 
For some time Mrs Verloc remained quiescent , with her work dropped in her lap , before she put it away under the counter and got up to light the gas . 
This done , she went into the parlour on her way to the kitchen . 
Mr Verloc would want his tea presently . 
She did not look for courtesies from him . 
But he was a good husband , and she had a loyal respect for his rights . 
Mrs Verloc would have gone through the parlour and on to her domestic duties in the kitchen with the perfect serenity of a woman sure of the power of her charms . 
But a slight , very slight , and rapid rattling sound grew upon her hearing . 
Bizarre and incomprehensible , it arrested Mrs Verloc's attention . 
Then as its character became plain to the ear she stopped short , amazed and concerned . 
Mr Verloc , against his usual practice , had thrown off his overcoat . 
It was lying on the sofa . 
His hat , which he must also have thrown off , rested overturned under the edge of the sofa . 
His teeth rattled with an ungovernable violence , causing his whole enormous back to tremble at the same rate . 
You've been getting wet , she said . 
Not very , Mr Verloc managed to falter out , in a profound shudder . 
By a great effort he suppressed the rattling of his teeth . 
I'll have you laid up on my hands , she said , with genuine uneasiness . 
I don't think so , remarked Mr Verloc , snuffling huskily . 
He had certainly contrived somehow to catch an abominable cold between seven in the morning and five in the afternoon . 
Mrs Verloc looked at his bowed back . 
Where have you been to day ? she asked . 
Nowhere , answered Mr Verloc in a low , choked nasal tone . 
His attitude suggested aggrieved sulks or a severe headache . 
The unsufficiency and uncandidness of his answer became painfully apparent in the dead silence of the room . 
He snuffled apologetically , and added I've been to the bank . 
You have ! she said dispassionately . 
What for ? Mr Verloc mumbled , with his nose over the grate , and with marked unwillingness . 
Draw the money out ! What do you mean ? All of it ? Yes . 
Mrs Verloc spread out with care the scanty table cloth , got two knives and two forks out of the table drawer , and suddenly stopped in her methodical proceedings . 
What did you do that for ? May want it soon , snuffled vaguely Mr Verloc , who was coming to the end of his calculated indiscretions . 
I don't know what you mean , remarked his wife in a tone perfectly casual , but standing stock still between the table and the cupboard . 
You know you can trust me , Mr Verloc remarked to the grate , with hoarse feeling . 
Mrs Verloc turned slowly towards the cupboard , saying with deliberation Oh yes . 
And she went on with her methodical proceedings . 
She laid two plates , got the bread , the butter , going to and fro quietly between the table and the cupboard in the peace and silence of her home . 
It was only when coming back , carving knife and fork in hand , that she spoke again . 
If I hadn't trusted you I wouldn't have married you . 
Bowed under the overmantel , Mr Verloc , holding his head in both hands , seemed to have gone to sleep . 
Winnie made the tea , and called out in an undertone Adolf . 
Mr Verloc got up at once , and staggered a little before he sat down at the table . 
His wife examining the sharp edge of the carving knife , placed it on the dish , and called his attention to the cold beef . 
He remained insensible to the suggestion , with his chin on his breast . 
You should feed your cold , Mrs Verloc said dogmatically . 
He looked up , and shook his head . 
His eyes were bloodshot and his face red . 
His fingers had ruffled his hair into a dissipated untidiness . 
Altogether he had a disreputable aspect , expressive of the discomfort , the irritation and the gloom following a heavy debauch . 
But Mr Verloc was not a debauched man . 
In his conduct he was respectable . 
His appearance might have been the effect of a feverish cold . 
He drank three cups of tea , but abstained from food entirely . 
He recoiled from it with sombre aversion when urged by Mrs Verloc , who said at last Aren't your feet wet ? You had better put on your slippers . 
You aren't going out any more this evening . 
Mr Verloc intimated by morose grunts and signs that his feet were not wet , and that anyhow he did not care . 
The proposal as to slippers was disregarded as beneath his notice . 
But the question of going out in the evening received an unexpected development . 
It was not of going out in the evening that Mr Verloc was thinking . 
His thoughts embraced a vaster scheme . 
From moody and incomplete phrases it became apparent that Mr Verloc had been considering the expediency of emigrating . 
It was not very clear whether he had in his mind France or California . 
The utter unexpectedness , improbability , and inconceivableness of such an event robbed this vague declaration of all its effect . 
It was indeed obvious that Mr Verloc was not in his usual state , physically and even mentally . 
A sombre irresolution held him silent for a while . 
Then he murmured a few ominous generalities on the theme of necessity . 
Will have to , repeated Winnie , sitting calmly back , with folded arms , opposite her husband . 
I should like to know who's to make you . 
No one need be a slave in this country and don't you make yourself one . 
She paused , and with invincible and steady candour . 
The business isn't so bad , she went on . 
She glanced all round the parlour , from the corner cupboard to the good fire in the grate . 
Her devoted affection missed out of it her brother Stevie , now enjoying a damp villegiature in the Kentish lanes under the care of Mr Michaelis . 
She missed him poignantly , with all the force of her protecting passion . 
This was the boy's home too the roof , the cupboard , the stoked grate . 
On this thought Mrs Verloc rose , and walking to the other end of the table , said in the fulness of her heart And you are not tired of me . 
Mr Verloc made no sound . 
Winnie leaned on his shoulder from behind , and pressed her lips to his forehead . 
Not a whisper reached them from the outside world . 
The sound of footsteps on the pavement died out in the discreet dimness of the shop . 
Only the gas jet above the table went on purring equably in the brooding silence of the parlour . 
During the contact of that unexpected and lingering kiss Mr Verloc , gripping with both hands the edges of his chair , preserved a hieratic immobility . 
When the pressure was removed he let go the chair , rose , and went to stand before the fireplace . 
He turned no longer his back to the room . 
With his features swollen and an air of being drugged , he followed his wife's movements with his eyes . 
Mrs Verloc went about serenely , clearing up the table . 
Her tranquil voice commented the idea thrown out in a reasonable and domestic tone . 
She condemned it from every point of view . 
But her only real concern was Stevie's welfare . 
He appeared to her thought in that connection as sufficiently peculiar not to be taken rashly abroad . 
But talking round that vital point , she approached absolute vehemence in her delivery . 
Meanwhile , with brusque movements , she arrayed herself in an apron for the washing up of cups . 
You know I wouldn't , said Mr Verloc huskily , and the unresonant voice of his private life trembled with an enigmatical emotion . 
Already Mrs Verloc was regretting her words . 
They had sounded more unkind than she meant them to be . 
They had also the unwisdom of unnecessary things . 
In fact , she had not meant them at all . 
It was a sort of phrase that is suggested by the demon of perverse inspiration . 
But she knew a way to make it as if it had not been . 
But the man was her husband now , and she was no longer ignorant . 
She kept it on him for a whole second , with her grave face motionless like a mask , while she said playfully You couldn't . 
You would miss me too much . 
Exactly , he said in a louder tone , throwing his arms out and making a step towards her . 
Something wild and doubtful in his expression made it appear uncertain whether he meant to strangle or to embrace his wife . 
But Mrs Verloc's attention was called away from that manifestation by the clatter of the shop bell . 
He stopped , his arms came down slowly . 
You go , repeated Mrs Verloc . 
I've got my apron on . 
Mr Verloc obeyed woodenly , stony eyed , and like an automaton whose face had been painted red . 
And this resemblance to a mechanical figure went so far that he had an automaton's absurd air of being aware of the machinery inside of him . 
He closed the parlour door , and Mrs Verloc moving briskly , carried the tray into the kitchen . 
She washed the cups and some other things before she stopped in her work to listen . 
The customer was a long time in the shop . 
It was a customer , because if he had not been Mr Verloc would have taken him inside . 
Undoing the strings of her apron with a jerk , she threw it on a chair , and walked back to the parlour slowly . 
At that precise moment Mr Verloc entered from the shop . 
He had gone in red . 
He came out a strange papery white . 
His face , losing its drugged , feverish stupor , had in that short time acquired a bewildered and harassed expression . 
He walked straight to the sofa , and stood looking down at his overcoat lying there , as though he were afraid to touch it . 
What's the matter ? asked Mrs Verloc in a subdued voice . 
Through the door left ajar she could see that the customer was not gone yet . 
I find I'll have to go out this evening , said Mr Verloc . 
He did not attempt to pick up his outer garment . 
Without a word Winnie made for the shop , and shutting the door after her , walked in behind the counter . 
She did not look overtly at the customer till she had established herself comfortably on the chair . 
But by that time she had noted that he was tall and thin , and wore his moustaches twisted up . 
In fact , he gave the sharp points a twist just then . 
His long , bony face rose out of a turned up collar . 
He was a little splashed , a little wet . 
A dark man , with the ridge of the cheek bone well defined under the slightly hollow temple . 
Mrs Verloc looked at him placidly . 
You came over from the Continent ? she said after a time . 
The long , thin stranger , without exactly looking at Mrs Verloc , answered only by a faint and peculiar smile . 
Mrs Verloc's steady , incurious gaze rested on him . 
You understand English , don't you ? Oh yes . 
There was nothing foreign in his accent , except that he seemed in his slow enunciation to be taking pains with it . 
And Mrs Verloc , in her varied experience , had come to the conclusion that some foreigners could speak better English than the natives . 
She said , looking at the door of the parlour fixedly You don't think perhaps of staying in England for good ? The stranger gave her again a silent smile . 
He had a kindly mouth and probing eyes . 
And he shook his head a little sadly , it seemed . 
My husband will see you through all right . 
Meantime for a few days you couldn't do better than take lodgings with Mr Giugliani . 
My husband will take you there . 
A good idea , said the thin , dark man , whose glance had hardened suddenly . 
Then he spoke again , in a far less elaborate manner . 
Your husband has not gone out to wait for me in the street by chance ? In the street ! repeated Mrs Verloc , surprised . 
There's no other door to the house . 
For a moment she sat impassive , then left her seat to go and peep through the glazed door . 
Suddenly she opened it , and disappeared into the parlour . 
Mr Verloc had done no more than put on his overcoat . 
But why he should remain afterwards leaning over the table propped up on his two arms as though he were feeling giddy or sick , she could not understand . 
Adolf , she called out half aloud and when he had raised himself Do you know that man ? she asked rapidly . 
I've heard of him , whispered uneasily Mr Verloc , darting a wild glance at the door . 
Mrs Verloc's fine , incurious eyes lighted up with a flash of abhorrence . 
One of Karl Yundt's friends beastly old man . 
No ! No ! protested Mr Verloc , busy fishing for his hat . 
But when he got it from under the sofa he held it as if he did not know the use of a hat . 
Well he's waiting for you , said Mrs Verloc at last . 
Who's been talking to you of the Embassy people ? Yourself . 
I ! I ! Talked of the Embassy to you ! Mr Verloc seemed scared and bewildered beyond measure . 
His wife explained You've been talking a little in your sleep of late , Adolf . 
What what did I say ? What do you know ? Nothing much . 
Enough to let me guess that something worried you . 
Mr Verloc rammed his hat on his head . 
A crimson flood of anger ran over his face . 
Nonsense eh ? The Embassy people ! I would cut their hearts out one after another . 
But let them look out . 
I've got a tongue in my head . 
He fumed , pacing up and down between the table and the sofa , his open overcoat catching against the angles . 
The red flood of anger ebbed out , and left his face all white , with quivering nostrils . 
Mrs Verloc , for the purposes of practical existence , put down these appearances to the cold . 
Well , she said , get rid of the man , whoever he is , as soon as you can , and come back home to me . 
You want looking after for a day or two . 
What about that money you drew out ? she asked . 
You've got it in your pocket ? Hadn't you better Mr Verloc gazed stupidly into the palm of his wife's extended hand for some time before he slapped his brow . 
Money ! Yes ! Yes ! I didn't know what you meant . 
He drew out of his breast pocket a new pigskin pocket book . 
Mrs Verloc received it without another word , and stood still till the bell , clattering after Mr Verloc and Mr Verloc's visitor , had quieted down . 
Only then she peeped in at the amount , drawing the notes out for the purpose . 
After this inspection she looked round thoughtfully , with an air of mistrust in the silence and solitude of the house . 
This abode of her married life appeared to her as lonely and unsafe as though it had been situated in the midst of a forest . 
No receptacle she could think of amongst the solid , heavy furniture seemed other but flimsy and particularly tempting to her conception of a house breaker . 
It was an ideal conception , endowed with sublime faculties and a miraculous insight . 
The till was not to be thought of it was the first spot a thief would make for . 
Mrs Verloc unfastening hastily a couple of hooks , slipped the pocket book under the bodice of her dress . 
Having thus disposed of her husband's capital , she was rather glad to hear the clatter of the door bell , announcing an arrival . 
Assuming the fixed , unabashed stare and the stony expression reserved for the casual customer , she walked in behind the counter . 
A man standing in the middle of the shop was inspecting it with a swift , cool , all round glance . 
His eyes ran over the walls , took in the ceiling , noted the floor all in a moment . 
The points of a long fair moustache fell below the line of the jaw . 
He smiled the smile of an old if distant acquaintance , and Mrs Verloc remembered having seen him before . 
She softened her customer stare to mere indifference , and faced him across the counter . 
He approached , on his side , confidentially , but not too markedly so . 
Husband at home , Mrs Verloc ? he asked in an easy , full tone . 
I am sorry for that . 
I've called to get from him a little private information . 
This was the exact truth . 
He indulged in some scornful and in a few angry thoughts , and found the occupation so unsatisfactory that he resolved to seek relief out of doors . 
Nothing prevented him paying a friendly call to Mr Verloc , casually as it were . 
It was in the character of a private citizen that walking out privately he made use of his customary conveyances . 
Their general direction was towards Mr Verloc's home . 
Chief Inspector Heat respected his own private character so consistently that he took especial pains to avoid all the police constables on point and patrol duty in the vicinity of Brett Street . 
This precaution was much more necessary for a man of his standing than for an obscure Assistant Commissioner . 
Private Citizen Heat entered the street , manoeuvring in a way which in a member of the criminal classes would have been stigmatised as slinking . 
The piece of cloth picked up in Greenwich was in his pocket . 
Not that he had the slightest intention of producing it in his private capacity . 
On the contrary , he wanted to know just what Mr Verloc would be disposed to say voluntarily . 
He hoped Mr Verloc's talk would be of a nature to incriminate Michaelis . 
It was a conscientiously professional hope in the main , but not without its moral value . 
For Chief Inspector Heat was a servant of justice . 
Find Mr Verloc from home , he felt disappointed . 
I would wait for him a little if I were sure he wouldn't be long , he said . 
Mrs Verloc volunteered no assurance of any kind . 
The information I need is quite private , he repeated . 
You understand what I mean ? I wonder if you could give me a notion where he's gone to ? Mrs Verloc shook her head . 
She turned away to range some boxes on the shelves behind the counter . 
Chief Inspector Heat looked at her thoughtfully for a time . 
I suppose you know who I am ? he said . 
Mrs Verloc glanced over her shoulder . 
Chief Inspector Heat was amazed at her coolness . 
Come ! You know I am in the police , he said sharply . 
I don't trouble my head much about it , Mrs Verloc remarked , returning to the ranging of her boxes . 
Chief Inspector Heat of the Special Crimes section . 
Mrs Verloc adjusted nicely in its place a small cardboard box , and turning round , faced him again , heavy eyed , with idle hands hanging down . 
A silence reigned for a time . 
So your husband went out a quarter of an hour ago ! And he didn't say when he would be back ? He didn't go out alone , Mrs Verloc let fall negligently . 
A friend ? Mrs Verloc touched the back of her hair . 
It was in perfect order . 
What sort of man was that stranger ? Would you mind telling me ? Mrs Verloc did not mind . 
He was intensely disgusted in the secrecy of his heart at the unofficial conduct of his immediate chief . 
But he was not quixotic . 
He lost all desire to await Mr Verloc's return . 
What they had gone out for he did not know , but he imagined it possible that they would return together . 
The case is not followed properly , it's being tampered with , he thought bitterly . 
I am afraid I haven't time to wait for your husband , he said . 
Mrs Verloc received this declaration listlessly . 
Her detachment had impressed Chief Inspector Heat all along . 
At this precise moment it whetted his curiosity . 
Chief Inspector Heat hung in the wind , swayed by his passions like the most private of citizens . 
I think , he said , looking at her steadily , that you could give me a pretty good notion of what's going on if you liked . 
That day Mrs Verloc had glanced at a morning paper as usual . 
But she had not stirred out of doors . 
The newsboys never invaded Brett Street . 
It was not a street for their business . 
And the echo of their cries drifting along the populous thoroughfares , expired between the dirty brick walls without reaching the threshold of the shop . 
Her husband had not brought an evening paper home . 
At any rate she had not seen it . 
Mrs Verloc knew nothing whatever of any affair . 
And she said so , with a genuine note of wonder in her quiet voice . 
Chief Inspector Heat did not believe for a moment in so much ignorance . 
Curtly , without amiability , he stated the bare fact . 
Mrs Verloc turned away her eyes . 
I call it silly , she pronounced slowly . 
We ain't downtrodden slaves here . 
The Chief Inspector waited watchfully . 
And your husband didn't mention anything to you when he came home ? Mrs Verloc simply turned her face from right to left in sign of negation . 
A languid , baffling silence reigned in the shop . 
Chief Inspector Heat felt provoked beyond endurance . 
There was another small matter , he began in a detached tone , which I wanted to speak to your husband about . 
There came into our hands a a what we believe is a stolen overcoat . 
Mrs Verloc , with her mind specially aware of thieves that evening , touched lightly the bosom of her dress . 
We have lost no overcoat , she said calmly . 
That's funny , continued Private Citizen Heat . 
I see you keep a lot of marking ink here He took up a small bottle , and looked at it against the gas jet in the middle of the shop . 
Purple isn't it ? he remarked , setting it down again . 
As I said , it's strange . 
Because the overcoat has got a label sewn on the inside with your address written in marking ink . 
Mrs Verloc leaned over the counter with a low exclamation . 
That's my brother's , then . 
Where's your brother ? Can I see him ? asked the Chief Inspector briskly . 
Mrs Verloc leaned a little more over the counter . 
I wrote that label myself . 
Where's your brother now ? He's been away living with a friend in the country . 
The overcoat comes from the country . 
And what's the name of the friend ? Michaelis , confessed Mrs Verloc in an awed whisper . 
The Chief Inspector let out a whistle . 
And your brother now , what's he like a sturdy , darkish chap eh ? Oh no , exclaimed Mrs Verloc fervently . 
That must be the thief . 
Good , said the Chief Inspector in an approving tone . 
And while Mrs Verloc , wavering between alarm and wonder , stared at him , he sought for information . 
Easily excitable ? he suggested . 
But how did he come to lose his coat Chief Inspector Heat suddenly pulled out a pink newspaper he had bought less than half an hour ago . 
He was interested in horses . 
I suppose you recognise this ? She took it mechanically in both her hands . 
Her eyes seemed to grow bigger as she looked . 
Yes , she whispered , then raised her head , and staggered backward a little . 
Whatever for is it torn out like this ? The Chief Inspector snatched across the counter the cloth out of her hands , and she sat heavily on the chair . 
And in that moment he had a glimpse into the whole amazing truth . 
Verloc was the other man . 
Mrs Verloc , he said , it strikes me that you know more of this bomb affair than even you yourself are aware of . 
Mrs Verloc sat still , amazed , lost in boundless astonishment . 
Mr Verloc had shut the door , and for a moment the two men looked at each other . 
Mr Verloc , without looking at his wife , walked up to the Chief Inspector , who was relieved to see him return alone . 
You here ! muttered Mr Verloc heavily . 
Who are you after ? No one , said Chief Inspector Heat in a low tone . 
Look here , I would like a word or two with you . 
Mr Verloc , still pale , had brought an air of resolution with him . 
Still he didn't look at his wife . 
He said Come in here , then . 
And he led the way into the parlour . 
The two men must have stopped directly they were through , because she heard plainly the Chief Inspector's voice , though she could not see his finger pressed against her husband's breast emphatically . 
You are the other man , Verloc . 
Two men were seen entering the park . 
And the voice of Mr Verloc said Well , take me now . 
What's to prevent you ? You have the right . 
Oh no ! I know too well who you have been giving yourself away to . 
He'll have to manage this little affair all by himself . 
But don't you make a mistake , it's I who found you out . 
Then she heard only muttering . 
Inspector Heat must have been showing to Mr Verloc the piece of Stevie's overcoat , because Stevie's sister , guardian , and protector heard her husband a little louder . 
I never noticed that she had hit upon that dodge . 
Again for a time Mrs Verloc heard nothing but murmurs , whose mysteriousness was less nightmarish to her brain than the horrible suggestions of shaped words . 
Then Chief Inspector Heat , on the other side of the door , raised his voice . 
You must have been mad . 
And Mr Verloc's voice answered , with a sort of gloomy fury I have been mad for a month or more , but I am not mad now . 
It shall all come out of my head , and hang the consequences . 
There was a silence , and then Private Citizen Heat murmured What's coming out ? Everything , exclaimed the voice of Mr Verloc , and then sank very low . 
After a while it rose again . 
You have known me for several years now , and you've found me useful , too . 
You know I was a straight man . 
This appeal to old acquaintance must have been extremely distasteful to the Chief Inspector . 
His voice took on a warning note . 
Don't you trust so much to what you have been promised . 
If I were you I would clear out . 
I don't think we will run after you . 
Mr Verloc was heard to laugh a little . 
Oh yes you hope the others will get rid of me for you don't you ? No , no you don't shake me off now . 
I have been a straight man to those people too long , and now everything must come out . 
Let it come out , then , the indifferent voice of Chief Inspector Heat assented . 
But tell me now how did you get away . 
I was making for Chesterfield Walk , Mrs Verloc heard her husband's voice , when I heard the bang . 
I saw no one till I was past the end of George Street . 
Don't think I met anyone till then . 
So easy as that ! marvelled the voice of Chief Inspector Heat . 
The bang startled you , eh ? Yes it came too soon , confessed the gloomy , husky voice of Mr Verloc . 
On the other side of the door the voices sank very low . 
She caught words now and then , sometimes in her husband's voice , sometimes in the smooth tones of the Chief Inspector . 
Blown to small bits limbs , gravel , clothing , bones , splinters all mixed up together . 
I tell you they had to fetch a shovel to gather him up with . 
Mrs Verloc sprang up suddenly from her crouching position , and stopping her ears , reeled to and fro between the counter and the shelves on the wall towards the chair . 
On the other side of the door , Chief Inspector Heat was saying to Mr Verloc , the secret agent So your defence will be practically a full confession ? It will . 
I am going to tell the whole story . 
You won't be believed as much as you fancy you will . 
And the Chief Inspector remained thoughtful . 
It was sorry , sorry meddling . 
Mentally he agreed with the words Mr Verloc let fall at last in answer to his last remark . 
But it will upset many things . 
I have been a straight man , and I shall keep straight in this If they let you , said the Chief Inspector cynically . 
You will be preached to , no doubt , before they put you into the dock . 
And in the end you may yet get let in for a sentence that will surprise you . 
I wouldn't trust too much the gentleman who's been talking to you . 
Mr Verloc listened , frowning . 
My advice to you is to clear out while you may . 
There are some of them , continued Chief Inspector Heat , laying a peculiar stress on the word them , who think you are already out of the world . 
Indeed ! Mr Verloc was moved to say . 
That's the impression about you . 
The Chief Inspector nodded at him . 
Where to ? snarled Mr Verloc . 
He raised his head , and gazing at the closed door of the parlour , muttered feelingly I only wish you would take me away to night . 
I daresay , assented sardonically the Chief Inspector , following the direction of his glance . 
The brow of Mr Verloc broke into slight moisture . 
He lowered his husky voice confidentially before the unmoved Chief Inspector . 
The lad was half witted , irresponsible . 
Any court would have seen that at once . 
Only fit for the asylum . 
And that was the worst that would've happened to him if The Chief Inspector , his hand on the door handle , whispered into Mr Verloc's face . 
He may've been half witted , but you must have been crazy . 
What drove you off your head like this ? Mr Verloc , thinking of Mr Vladimir , did not hesitate in the choice of words . 
A Hyperborean swine , he hissed forcibly . 
A what you might call a a gentleman . 
The Chief Inspector , steady eyed , nodded briefly his comprehension , and opened the door . 
Mrs Verloc , behind the counter , might have heard but did not see his departure , pursued by the aggressive clatter of the bell . 
She sat at her post of duty behind the counter . 
She sat rigidly erect in the chair with two dirty pink pieces of paper lying spread out at her feet . 
Chief Inspector Heat , crossing the shop at his busy , swinging pace , gave her only a cursory glance . 
And when the cracked bell ceased to tremble on its curved ribbon of steel nothing stirred near Mrs Verloc , as if her attitude had the locking power of a spell . 
Even the butterfly shaped gas flames posed on the ends of the suspended T bracket burned without a quiver . 
Some stalwart constables , who did not seem particularly impressed by the duty of watching the august spot , saluted him . 
That neat and nice young man concealed his astonishment at the early appearance of the Assistant Commissioner , whom he had been told to look out for some time about midnight . 
His turning up so early he concluded to be the sign that things , whatever they were , had gone wrong . 
What a queer , foreign looking chap he is , he thought to himself , smiling from a distance with friendly buoyancy . 
And directly they came together he began to talk with the kind intention of burying the awkwardness of failure under a heap of words . 
It looked as if the great assault threatened for that night were going to fizzle out . 
An inferior henchman of that brute Cheeseman was up boring mercilessly a very thin House with some shamelessly cooked statistics . 
He , Toodles , hoped he would bore them into a count out every minute . 
But then he might be only marking time to let that guzzling Cheeseman dine at his leisure . 
Anyway , the Chief could not be persuaded to go home . 
He will see you at once , I think . 
He's sitting all alone in his room thinking of all the fishes of the sea , concluded Toodles airily . 
was accessible to the common failings of humanity . 
He did not wish to harrow the feelings of the Assistant Commissioner , who looked to him uncommonly like a man who has made a mess of his job . 
But his curiosity was too strong to be restrained by mere compassion . 
You've no idea how these great men dislike to be disappointed in small things . 
After this profound observation the experienced Toodles seemed to reflect . 
At any rate he said nothing for quite two seconds . 
There are sardine canneries on the Spanish coast which The Assistant Commissioner interrupted the apprentice statesman . 
But a sprat is also thrown away sometimes in order to catch a whale . 
Phew ! exclaimed Toodles , with bated breath . 
You're after a whale , then ? Not exactly . 
What I am after is more like a dog fish . 
You don't know perhaps what a dog fish is like . 
We're buried in special books up to our necks whole shelves full of them with plates . 
It's a noxious , rascally looking , altogether detestable beast , with a sort of smooth face and moustaches . 
Described to a T , commended the Assistant Commissioner . 
Only mine is clean shaven altogether . 
I have seen him ! said Toodles incredulously . 
I can't conceive where I could have seen him . 
At the Explorers , I should say , dropped the Assistant Commissioner calmly . 
At the name of that extremely exclusive club Toodles looked scared , and stopped short . 
Nonsense , he protested , but in an awe struck tone . 
What do you mean ? A member ? Honorary , muttered the Assistant Commissioner through his teeth . 
Heavens ! Toodles looked so thunderstruck that the Assistant Commissioner smiled faintly . 
That's between ourselves strictly , he said . 
That's the beastliest thing I've ever heard in my life , declared Toodles feebly , as if astonishment had robbed him of all his buoyant strength in a second . 
The Assistant Commissioner gave him an unsmiling glance . 
It revolutionised his idea of the Explorers' Club's extreme selectness , of its social purity . 
Go in without knocking , he said . 
Shades of green silk fitted low over all the lights imparted to the room something of a forest's deep gloom . 
The haughty eyes were physically the great man's weak point . 
This point was wrapped up in secrecy . 
When an opportunity offered , he rested them conscientiously . 
The Assistant Commissioner entering saw at first only a big pale hand supporting a big head , and concealing the upper part of a big pale face . 
An open despatch box stood on the writing table near a few oblong sheets of paper and a scattered handful of quill pens . 
There was absolutely nothing else on the large flat surface except a little bronze statuette draped in a toga , mysteriously watchful in its shadowy immobility . 
The Assistant Commissioner , invited to take a chair , sat down . 
In the dim light , the salient points of his personality , the long face , the black hair , his lankness , made him look more foreign than ever . 
The great man manifested no surprise , no eagerness , no sentiment whatever . 
The attitude in which he rested his menaced eyes was profoundly meditative . 
He did not alter it the least bit . 
But his tone was not dreamy . 
Well ! What is it that you've found out already ? You came upon something unexpected on the first step . 
Not exactly unexpected , Sir Ethelred . 
What I mainly came upon was a psychological state . 
The Great Presence made a slight movement . 
You must be lucid , please . 
You know no doubt that most criminals at some time or other feel an irresistible need of confessing of making a clean breast of it to somebody to anybody . 
And they do it often to the police . 
In that Verloc whom Heat wished so much to screen I've found a man in that particular psychological state . 
The man , figuratively speaking , flung himself on my breast . 
It was enough on my part to whisper to him who I was and to add I know that you are at the bottom of this affair . 
It must have seemed miraculous to him that we should know already , but he took it all in the stride . 
The wonderfulness of it never checked him for a moment . 
As to the second question , I gather that the fellow with the bomb was his brother in law quite a lad a weak minded creature . 
It is rather a curious affair too long perhaps to state fully just now . 
What then have you learned ? asked the great man . 
It is more than likely that Michaelis knows nothing of it to this moment . 
You are positive as to that ? asked the great man . 
Quite certain , Sir Ethelred . 
This fellow Verloc went there this morning , and took away the lad on the pretence of going out for a walk in the lanes . 
As it was not the first time that he did this , Michaelis could not have the slightest suspicion of anything unusual . 
For the rest , Sir Ethelred , the indignation of this man Verloc had left nothing in doubt nothing whatever . 
The Assistant Commissioner did not seem to refuse it a certain amount of competency . 
But the great personage remarked All this seems very fantastic . 
Doesn't it ? One would think a ferocious joke . 
But our man took it seriously , it appears . 
In the time , you know , he was in direct communication with old Stott Wartenheim himself , and had come to regard his services as indispensable . 
It was an extremely rude awakening . 
I imagine that he lost his head . 
He became angry and frightened . 
Some forty minutes Sir Ethelred , in a house of bad repute called Continental Hotel , closeted in a room which by the by I took for the night . 
I found him under the influence of that reaction which follows the effort of crime . 
The man cannot be defined as a hardened criminal . 
It is obvious that he did not plan the death of that wretched lad his brother in law . 
That was a shock to him I could see that . 
Perhaps he is a man of strong sensibilities . 
At any rate he risked consciously nothing more but arrest for him . 
The Assistant Commissioner paused in his speculations to reflect for a moment . 
No , I can't imagine . 
It's possible that he never thought of that at all . 
The Assistant Commissioner gave this definition in an apologetic voice . 
But in truth there is a sort of lucidity proper to extravagant language , and the great man was not offended . 
The great man had laughed . 
You did ? But the fellow will disappear . 
Where could he go to ? Moreover , you must remember that he has got to think of the danger from his comrades too . 
He's there at his post . 
How could he explain leaving it ? But even if there were no obstacles to his freedom of action he would do nothing . 
At present he hasn't enough moral energy to take a resolution of any sort . 
Permit me also to point out that if I had detained him we would have been committed to a course of action on which I wished to know your precise intentions first . 
The great personage rose heavily , an imposing shadowy form in the greenish gloom of the room . 
I'll see the Attorney General to night , and will send for you to morrow morning . 
Is there anything more you'd wish to tell me now ? The Assistant Commissioner had stood up also , slender and flexible . 
I think not , Sir Ethelred , unless I were to enter into details which No. No details , please . 
The great shadowy form seemed to shrink away as if in physical dread of details then came forward , expanded , enormous , and weighty , offering a large hand . 
And you say that this man has got a wife ? Yes , Sir Ethelred , said the Assistant Commissioner , pressing deferentially the extended hand . 
A genuine wife and a genuinely , respectably , marital relation . 
Yes , a genuine wife . 
And the victim was a genuine brother in law . 
From a certain point of view we are here in the presence of a domestic drama . 
The Assistant Commissioner withdrew quietly , unnoticed , as if already forgotten . 
He had his own crusading instincts . 
This affair , which , in one way or another , disgusted Chief Inspector Heat , seemed to him a providentially given starting point for a crusade . 
He had it much at heart to begin . 
He walked slowly home , meditating that enterprise on the way , and thinking over Mr Verloc's psychology in a composite mood of repugnance and satisfaction . 
He walked all the way home . 
But he shook it off before going out again to join his wife at the house of the great lady patroness of Michaelis . 
He knew he would be welcomed there . 
On entering the smaller of the two drawing rooms he saw his wife in a small group near the piano . 
A youngish composer in pass of becoming famous was discoursing from a music stool to two thick men whose backs looked old , and three slender women whose backs looked young . 
Behind the screen the great lady had only two persons with her a man and a woman , who sat side by side on arm chairs at the foot of her couch . 
She extended her hand to the Assistant Commissioner . 
I never hoped to see you here to night . 
I had no idea myself that my work would be over so soon . 
The Assistant Commissioner added in a low tone . 
I am glad to tell you that Michaelis is altogether clear of this The patroness of the ex convict received this assurance indignantly . 
Why ? Were your people stupid enough to connect him with Not stupid , interrupted the Assistant Commissioner , contradicting deferentially . 
Clever enough quite clever enough for that . 
The man at the foot of the couch had stopped speaking to the lady , and looked on with a faint smile . 
I don't know whether you ever met before , said the great lady . 
Mr Vladimir and the Assistant Commissioner , introduced , acknowledged each other's existence with punctilious and guarded courtesy . 
He's been frightening me , declared suddenly the lady who sat by the side of Mr Vladimir , with an inclination of the head towards that gentleman . 
The Assistant Commissioner knew the lady . 
You do not look frightened , he pronounced , after surveying her conscientiously with his tired and equable gaze . 
He was thinking meantime to himself that in this house one met everybody sooner or later . 
Mr Vladimir's rosy countenance was wreathed in smiles , because he was witty , but his eyes remained serious , like the eyes of convinced man . 
Well , he tried to at least , amended the lady . 
Force of habit perhaps , said the Assistant Commissioner , moved by an irresistible inspiration . 
He has been threatening society with all sorts of horrors , continued the lady , whose enunciation was caressing and slow , apropos of this explosion in Greenwich Park . 
It appears we all ought to quake in our shoes at what's coming if those people are not suppressed all over the world . 
I had no idea this was such a grave affair . 
Mr Vladimir asked himself what that confounded and intrusive policeman was driving at . 
Descended from generations victimised by the instruments of an arbitrary power , he was racially , nationally , and individually afraid of the police . 
It was an inherited weakness , altogether independent of his judgment , of his reason , of his experience . 
He was born to it . 
But that sentiment , which resembled the irrational horror some people have of cats , did not stand in the way of his immense contempt for the English police . 
He finished the sentence addressed to the great lady , and turned slightly in his chair . 
You mean that we have a great experience of these people . 
Then he added more gravely I may even say because you do . 
When Mr Vladimir ceased speaking the Assistant Commissioner lowered his glance , and the conversation dropped . 
Almost immediately afterwards Mr Vladimir took leave . 
Directly his back was turned on the couch the Assistant Commissioner rose too . 
I thought you were going to stay and take Annie home , said the lady patroness of Michaelis . 
I find that I've yet a little work to do to night . 
In connection ? Well , yes in a way . 
Tell me , what is it really this horror ? It's difficult to say what it is , but it may yet be a CAUSE CELEBRE , said the Assistant Commissioner . 
He left the drawing room hurriedly , and found Mr Vladimir still in the hall , wrapping up his throat carefully in a large silk handkerchief . 
Behind him a footman waited , holding his overcoat . 
Another stood ready to open the door . 
The Assistant Commissioner was duly helped into his coat , and let out at once . 
After descending the front steps he stopped , as if to consider the way he should take . 
On seeing this through the door held open , Mr Vladimir lingered in the hall to get out a cigar and asked for a light . 
It was furnished to him by an elderly man out of livery with an air of calm solicitude . 
But the match went out the footman then closed the door , and Mr Vladimir lighted his large Havana with leisurely care . 
When at last he got out of the house , he saw with disgust the confounded policeman still standing on the pavement . 
Can he be waiting for me , thought Mr Vladimir , looking up and down for some signs of a hansom . 
Mr Vladimir walked on , and the confounded policeman fell into step at his elbow . 
At the end of the fourth stride Mr Vladimir felt infuriated and uneasy . 
Rotten weather , he growled savagely . 
Mild , said the Assistant Commissioner without passion . 
He remained silent for a little while . 
We've got hold of a man called Verloc , he announced casually . 
Mr Vladimir did not stumble , did not stagger back , did not change his stride . 
But he could not prevent himself from exclaiming What ? The Assistant Commissioner did not repeat his statement . 
You know him , he went on in the same tone . 
Mr Vladimir stopped , and became guttural . 
What makes you say that ? I don't . 
It's Verloc who says that . 
A lying dog of some sort , said Mr Vladimir in somewhat Oriental phraseology . 
But in his heart he was almost awed by the miraculous cleverness of the English police . 
The change of his opinion on the subject was so violent that it made him for a moment feel slightly sick . 
He threw away his cigar , and moved on . 
In my opinion they are a ghastly nuisance also an element of danger . 
But we can't very well seek them out individually . 
The only way is to make their employment unpleasant to their employers . 
And dangerous too , for us , here . 
Mr Vladimir stopped again for a moment . 
What do you mean ? The prosecution of this Verloc will demonstrate to the public both the danger and the indecency . 
Nobody will believe what a man of that sort says , said Mr Vladimir contemptuously . 
The wealth and precision of detail will carry conviction to the great mass of the public , advanced the Assistant Commissioner gently . 
So that is seriously what you mean to do . 
We've got the man we have no choice . 
You will be only feeding up the lying spirit of these revolutionary scoundrels , Mr Vladimir protested . 
What do you want to make a scandal for ? from morality or what ? Mr Vladimir's anxiety was obvious . 
The Assistant Commissioner having ascertained in this way that there must be some truth in the summary statements of Mr Verloc , said indifferently There's a practical side too . 
We have really enough to do to look after the genuine article . 
You can't say we are not effective . 
But we don't intend to let ourselves be bothered by shams under any pretext whatever . 
Mr Vladimir's tone became lofty . 
For my part , I can't share your view . 
My sentiments for my own country cannot be doubted but I've always felt that we ought to be good Europeans besides I mean governments and men . 
Yes , said the Assistant Commissioner simply . 
Only you look at Europe from its other end . 
But , he went on in a good natured tone , the foreign governments cannot complain of the inefficiency of our police . 
Look at this outrage a case specially difficult to trace inasmuch as it was a sham . 
And we could have gone further only we stopped at the limits of our territory . 
So this instructive crime was planned abroad , Mr Vladimir said quickly . 
You admit it was planned abroad ? Theoretically . 
I talked to you of this business because its your government that grumbles most at our police . 
You see that we are not so bad . 
I wanted particularly to tell you of our success . 
I'm sure I'm very grateful , muttered Mr Vladimir through his teeth . 
We can put our finger on every anarchist here , went on the Assistant Commissioner , as though he were quoting Chief Inspector Heat . 
All that's wanted now is to do away with the agent provocateur to make everything safe . 
Mr Vladimir held up his hand to a passing hansom . 
But Mr Vladimir , sitting , stony eyed , inside the hansom , drove off without a word . 
The Assistant Commissioner himself did not turn into the noble building . 
It was the Explorers' Club . 
The thought passed through his mind that Mr Vladimir , honorary member , would not be seen very often there in the future . 
He looked at his watch . 
It was only half past ten . 
He had had a very full evening . 
CHAPTER XI After Chief Inspector Heat had left him Mr Verloc moved about the parlour . 
From time to time he eyed his wife through the open door . 
She knows all about it now , he thought to himself with commiseration for her sorrow and with some satisfaction as regarded himself . 
Mr Verloc's soul , if lacking greatness perhaps , was capable of tender sentiments . 
The prospect of having to break the news to her had put him into a fever . 
Chief Inspector Heat had relieved him of the task . 
That was good as far as it went . 
It remained for him now to face her grief . 
Mr Verloc had never expected to have to face it on account of death , whose catastrophic character cannot be argued away by sophisticated reasoning or persuasive eloquence . 
Mr Verloc never meant Stevie to perish with such abrupt violence . 
He did not mean him to perish at all . 
Stevie dead was a much greater nuisance than ever he had been when alive . 
Though not much of a psychologist , Mr Verloc had gauged the depth of Stevie's fanaticism . 
Fifteen minutes ought to have been enough for the veriest fool to deposit the engine and walk away . 
And the Professor had guaranteed more than fifteen minutes . 
But Stevie had stumbled within five minutes of being left to himself . 
And Mr Verloc was shaken morally to pieces . 
He had foreseen everything but that . 
He had foreseen Stevie distracted and lost sought for found in some police station or provincial workhouse in the end . 
Like a peripatetic philosopher , Mr Verloc , strolling along the streets of London , had modified Stevie's view of the police by conversations full of subtle reasonings . 
Never had a sage a more attentive and admiring disciple . 
The submission and worship were so apparent that Mr Verloc had come to feel something like a liking for the boy . 
In any case , he had not foreseen the swift bringing home of his connection . 
That his wife should hit upon the precaution of sewing the boy's address inside his overcoat was the last thing Mr Verloc would have thought of . 
One can't think of everything . 
That was what she meant when she said that he need not worry if he lost Stevie during their walks . 
She had assured him that the boy would turn up all right . 
Well , he had turned up with a vengeance ! Well , well , muttered Mr Verloc in his wonder . 
What did she mean by it ? Spare him the trouble of keeping an anxious eye on Stevie ? Most likely she had meant well . 
Only she ought to have told him of the precaution she had taken . 
Mr Verloc walked behind the counter of the shop . 
His intention was not to overwhelm his wife with bitter reproaches . 
Mr Verloc felt no bitterness . 
The unexpected march of events had converted him to the doctrine of fatalism . 
Nothing could be helped now . 
He said I didn't mean any harm to come to the boy . 
Mrs Verloc shuddered at the sound of her husband's voice . 
She did not uncover her face . 
The trusted secret agent of the late Baron Stott Wartenheim looked at her for a time with a heavy , persistent , undiscerning glance . 
The torn evening paper was lying at her feet . 
It could not have told her much . 
Mr Verloc felt the need of talking to his wife . 
It's that damned Heat eh ? he said . 
He's a brute , blurting it out like this to a woman . 
I made myself ill thinking how to break it to you . 
I sat for hours in the little parlour of Cheshire Cheese thinking over the best way . 
You understand I never meant any harm to come to that boy . 
Mr Verloc , the Secret Agent , was speaking the truth . 
It was his marital affection that had received the greatest shock from the premature explosion . 
He added I didn't feel particularly gay sitting there and thinking of you . 
He observed another slight shudder of his wife , which affected his sensibility . 
As she persisted in hiding her face in her hands , he thought he had better leave her alone for a while . 
On this delicate impulse Mr Verloc withdrew into the parlour again , where the gas jet purred like a contented cat . 
Mrs Verloc's wifely forethought had left the cold beef on the table with carving knife and fork and half a loaf of bread for Mr Verloc's supper . 
He noticed all these things now for the first time , and cutting himself a piece of bread and meat , began to eat . 
His appetite did not proceed from callousness . 
Mr Verloc had not eaten any breakfast that day . 
He had left his home fasting . 
Not being an energetic man , he found his resolution in nervous excitement , which seemed to hold him mainly by the throat . 
He could not have swallowed anything solid . 
Michaelis' cottage was as destitute of provisions as the cell of a prisoner . 
The ticket of leave apostle lived on a little milk and crusts of stale bread . 
Moreover , when Mr Verloc arrived he had already gone upstairs after his frugal meal . 
Absorbed in the toil and delight of literary composition , he had not even answered Mr Verloc's shout up the little staircase . 
I am taking this young fellow home for a day or two . 
And , in truth , Mr Verloc did not wait for an answer , but had marched out of the cottage at once , followed by the obedient Stevie . 
Now that all action was over and his fate taken out of his hands with unexpected swiftness , Mr Verloc felt terribly empty physically . 
He carved the meat , cut the bread , and devoured his supper standing by the table , and now and then casting a glance towards his wife . 
Her prolonged immobility disturbed the comfort of his refection . 
He walked again into the shop , and came up very close to her . 
This sorrow with a veiled face made Mr Verloc uneasy . 
He expected , of course , his wife to be very much upset , but he wanted her to pull herself together . 
He needed all her assistance and all her loyalty in these new conjunctures his fatalism had already accepted . 
Can't be helped , he said in a tone of gloomy sympathy . 
Come , Winnie , we've got to think of to morrow . 
You'll want all your wits about you after I am taken away . 
Mrs Verloc's breast heaved convulsively . 
Mr Verloc was a humane man he had come home prepared to allow every latitude to his wife's affection for her brother . 
Only he did not understand either the nature or the whole extent of that sentiment . 
And in this he was excusable , since it was impossible for him to understand it without ceasing to be himself . 
He was startled and disappointed , and his speech conveyed it by a certain roughness of tone . 
You might look at a fellow , he observed after waiting a while . 
As if forced through the hands covering Mrs Verloc's face the answer came , deadened , almost pitiful . 
I don't want to look at you as long as I live . 
Eh ? What ! Mr Verloc was merely startled by the superficial and literal meaning of this declaration . 
It was obviously unreasonable , the mere cry of exaggerated grief . 
He threw over it the mantle of his marital indulgence . 
The mind of Mr Verloc lacked profundity . 
Under the mistaken impression that the value of individuals consists in what they are in themselves , he could not possibly comprehend the value of Stevie in the eyes of Mrs Verloc . 
She was taking it confoundedly hard , he thought to himself . 
It was all the fault of that damned Heat . 
What did he want to upset the woman for ? But she mustn't be allowed , for her own good , to carry on so till she got quite beside herself . 
Somebody might come in at any minute , he added , and waited again . 
No effect was produced , and the idea of the finality of death occurred to Mr Verloc during the pause . 
This won't bring him back , he said gently , feeling ready to take her in his arms and press her to his breast , where impatience and compassion dwelt side by side . 
But except for a short shudder Mrs Verloc remained apparently unaffected by the force of that terrible truism . 
It was Mr Verloc himself who was moved . 
He was moved in his simplicity to urge moderation by asserting the claims of his own personality . 
Do be reasonable , Winnie . 
What would it have been if you had lost me ! He had vaguely expected to hear her cry out . 
But she did not budge . 
She leaned back a little , quieted down to a complete unreadable stillness . 
Mr Verloc's heart began to beat faster with exasperation and something resembling alarm . 
He laid his hand on her shoulder , saying Don't be a fool , Winnie . 
It was impossible to talk to any purpose with a woman whose face one cannot see . 
Mr Verloc caught hold of his wife's wrists . 
But her hands seemed glued fast . 
She swayed forward bodily to his tug , and nearly went off the chair . 
He had just a glimpse of her face and that much of her eyes that he knew she had not looked at him . 
It all had the appearance of a struggle for the possession of a chair , because Mr Verloc instantly took his wife's place in it . 
Mr Verloc did not cover his face with his hands , but a sombre thoughtfulness veiled his features . 
A term of imprisonment could not be avoided . 
He did not wish now to avoid it . 
A prison was a place as safe from certain unlawful vengeances as the grave , with this advantage , that in a prison there is room for hope . 
What he saw before him was a term of imprisonment , an early release and then life abroad somewhere , such as he had contemplated already , in case of failure . 
Well , it was a failure , if not exactly the sort of failure he had feared . 
It had been so near success that he could have positively terrified Mr Vladimir out of his ferocious scoffing with this proof of occult efficiency . 
So at least it seemed now to Mr Verloc . 
His prestige with the Embassy would have been immense if if his wife had not had the unlucky notion of sewing on the address inside Stevie's overcoat . 
In all the eventualities he had foreseen Mr Verloc had calculated with correct insight on Stevie's instinctive loyalty and blind discretion . 
The eventuality he had not foreseen had appalled him as a humane man and a fond husband . 
From every other point of view it was rather advantageous . 
Nothing can equal the everlasting discretion of death . 
With much trouble and distress on Mr Verloc's part the effect might be said to have been produced . 
The position was gone through no one's fault really . 
A small , tiny fact had done it . 
It was like slipping on a bit of orange peel in the dark and breaking your leg . 
Mr Verloc drew a weary breath . 
He nourished no resentment against his wife . 
He thought She will have to look after the shop while they keep me locked up . 
And thinking also how cruelly she would miss Stevie at first , he felt greatly concerned about her health and spirits . 
Though Mr Verloc's fatalism accepted his undoing as a secret agent , he had no mind to be utterly ruined , mostly , it must be owned , from regard for his wife . 
Silent , and out of his line of sight in the kitchen , she frightened him . 
If only she had had her mother with her . 
But that silly old woman An angry dismay possessed Mr Verloc . 
He must talk with his wife . 
He could tell her certainly that a man does get desperate under certain circumstances . 
But he did not go incontinently to impart to her that information . 
First of all , it was clear to him that this evening was no time for business . 
He got up to close the street door and put the gas out in the shop . 
Having thus assured a solitude around his hearthstone Mr Verloc walked into the parlour , and glanced down into the kitchen . 
Her arms were folded on the table , and her head was lying on her arms . 
Mr Verloc contemplated her back and the arrangement of her hair for a time , then walked away from the kitchen door . 
Mrs Verloc's philosophical , almost disdainful incuriosity , the foundation of their accord in domestic life made it extremely difficult to get into contact with her , now this tragic necessity had arisen . 
Mr Verloc felt this difficulty acutely . 
He turned around the table in the parlour with his usual air of a large animal in a cage . 
Curiosity being one of the forms of self revelation , a systematically incurious person remains always partly mysterious . 
Every time he passed near the door Mr Verloc glanced at his wife uneasily . 
It was not that he was afraid of her . 
Mr Verloc imagined himself loved by that woman . 
But she had not accustomed him to make confidences . 
And the confidence he had to make was of a profound psychological order . 
You don't know what a brute I had to deal with . 
He started off to make another perambulation of the table then when he had come to the door again he stopped , glaring in from the height of two steps . 
A silly , jeering , dangerous brute , with no more sense than After all these years ! A man like me ! And I have been playing my head at that game . 
You had no business to know . 
Mr Verloc took another turn round the parlour , fuming . 
A venomous beast , he began again from the doorway . 
Drive me out into a ditch to starve for a joke . 
I could see he thought it was a damned good joke . 
A man like me ! Look here ! Some of the highest in the world got to thank me for walking on their two legs to this day . 
That's the man you've got married to , my girl ! He perceived that his wife had sat up . 
Mrs Verloc's arms remained lying stretched on the table . 
Mr Verloc watched at her back as if he could read there the effect of his words . 
There isn't a murdering plot for the last eleven years that I hadn't my finger in at the risk of my life . 
There's scores of these revolutionists I've sent off , with their bombs in their blamed pockets , to get themselves caught on the frontier . 
The old Baron knew what I was worth to his country . 
And here suddenly a swine comes along an ignorant , overbearing swine . 
It wasn't the old Baron who would have had the wicked folly of getting me to call on him at eleven in the morning . 
There are two or three in this town that , if they had seen me going in , would have made no bones about knocking me on the head sooner or later . 
It was a silly , murderous trick to expose for nothing a man like me . 
Mr Verloc , turning on the tap above the sink , poured three glasses of water , one after another , down his throat to quench the fires of his indignation . 
Mr Vladimir's conduct was like a hot brand which set his internal economy in a blaze . 
He could not get over the disloyalty of it . 
This man , who would not work at the usual hard tasks which society sets to its humbler members , had exercised his secret industry with an indefatigable devotion . 
There was in Mr Verloc a fund of loyalty . 
For the first time in his life he was taking that incurious woman into his confidence . 
The singularity of the event , the force and importance of the personal feelings aroused in the course of this confession , drove Stevie's fate clean out of Mr Verloc's mind . 
The boy's stuttering existence of fears and indignations , together with the violence of his end , had passed out of Mr Verloc's mental sight for a time . 
For that reason , when he looked up he was startled by the inappropriate character of his wife's stare . 
The impression was so strong that Mr Verloc glanced over his shoulder . 
There was nothing behind him there was just the whitewashed wall . 
The excellent husband of Winnie Verloc saw no writing on the wall . 
He turned to his wife again , repeating , with some emphasis I would have taken him by the throat . 
As true as I stand here , if I hadn't thought of you then I would have half choked the life out of the brute before I let him get up . 
And don't you think he would have been anxious to call the police either . 
You understand why don't you ? He blinked at his wife knowingly . 
No , said Mrs Verloc in an unresonant voice , and without looking at him at all . 
What are you talking about ? A great discouragement , the result of fatigue , came upon Mr Verloc . 
He had had a very full day , and his nerves had been tried to the utmost . 
After a month of maddening worry , ending in an unexpected catastrophe , the storm tossed spirit of Mr Verloc longed for repose . 
But looking at his wife , he doubted it . 
She was taking it very hard not at all like herself , he thought . 
He made an effort to speak . 
You'll have to pull yourself together , my girl , he said sympathetically . 
What's done can't be undone . 
Mrs Verloc gave a slight start , though not a muscle of her white face moved in the least . 
Mr Verloc , who was not looking at her , continued ponderously . 
You go to bed now . 
What you want is a good cry . 
This opinion had nothing to recommend it but the general consent of mankind . 
It is universally understood that , as if it were nothing more substantial than vapour floating in the sky , every emotion of a woman is bound to end in a shower . 
Mrs Verloc , in common with other human beings , was provided with a fund of unconscious resignation sufficient to meet the normal manifestation of human destiny . 
Without troubling her head about it , she was aware that it did not stand looking into very much . 
But the lamentable circumstances of Stevie's end , which to Mr Verloc's mind had only an episodic character , as part of a greater disaster , dried her tears at their very source . 
The exigencies of Mrs Verloc's temperament , which , when stripped of its philosophical reserve , was maternal and violent , forced her to roll a series of thoughts in her motionless head . 
These thoughts were rather imagined than expressed . 
Mrs Verloc was a woman of singularly few words , either for public or private use . 
With the rage and dismay of a betrayed woman , she reviewed the tenor of her life in visions concerned mostly with Stevie's difficult existence from its earliest days . 
It was a life of single purpose and of a noble unity of inspiration , like those rare lives that have left their mark on the thoughts and feelings of mankind . 
But the visions of Mrs Verloc lacked nobility and magnificence . 
That meretricious splendour was the only one to be met in Mrs Verloc's visions . 
, which stilled that particular storm into the dumb and awful silence which follows a thunder clap . 
It was of her that this had been said many years ago . 
Mrs Verloc heard the words again in a ghostly fashion , and then the dreary shadow of the Belgravian mansion descended upon her shoulders . 
Affectionate and jolly , he was a fascinating companion for a voyage down the sparkling stream of life only his boat was very small . 
There was room in it for a girl partner at the oar , but no accommodation for passengers . 
He was allowed to drift away from the threshold of the Belgravian mansion while Winnie averted her tearful eyes . 
He was not a lodger . 
There was no sparkle of any kind on the lazy stream of his life . 
It flowed through secret places . 
But his barque seemed a roomy craft , and his taciturn magnanimity accepted as a matter of course the presence of passengers . 
With eyes whose pupils were extremely dilated she stared at the vision of her husband and poor Stevie walking up Brett Street side by side away from the shop . 
Might have been father and son . 
Mr Verloc stopped , and raised a care worn face . 
Eh ? What did you say ? he asked . 
Receiving no reply , he resumed his sinister tramping . 
Then with a menacing flourish of a thick , fleshy fist , he burst out Yes . 
A pretty lot , ain't they ! Before a week's out I'll make some of them wish themselves twenty feet underground . 
Eh ? What ? He glanced sideways , with his head down . 
Mrs Verloc gazed at the whitewashed wall . 
A blank wall perfectly blank . 
A blankness to run at and dash your head against . 
Mrs Verloc remained immovably seated . 
The Embassy , Mr Verloc began again , after a preliminary grimace which bared his teeth wolfishly . 
I wish I could get loose in there with a cudgel for half an hour . 
I would keep on hitting till there wasn't a single unbroken bone left amongst the whole lot . 
But never mind , I'll teach them yet what it means trying to throw out a man like me to rot in the streets . 
I've a tongue in my head . 
All the world shall know what I've done for them . 
Let them look out ! In these terms did Mr Verloc declare his thirst for revenge . 
It was a very appropriate revenge . 
It was in harmony with the promptings of Mr Verloc's genius . 
Anarchists or diplomats were all one to him . 
Mr Verloc was temperamentally no respecter of persons . 
His scorn was equally distributed over the whole field of his operations . 
But as a member of a revolutionary proletariat which he undoubtedly was he nourished a rather inimical sentiment against social distinction . 
Nothing on earth can stop me now , he added , and paused , looking fixedly at his wife , who was looking fixedly at a blank wall . 
The silence in the kitchen was prolonged , and Mr Verloc felt disappointed . 
He had expected his wife to say something . 
But Mrs Verloc's lips , composed in their usual form , preserved a statuesque immobility like the rest of her face . 
And Mr Verloc was disappointed . 
Yet the occasion did not , he recognised , demand speech from her . 
She was a woman of very few words . 
For reasons involved in the very foundation of his psychology , Mr Verloc was inclined to put his trust in any woman who had given herself to him . 
Therefore he trusted his wife . 
Their accord was perfect , but it was not precise . 
It was a tacit accord , congenial to Mrs Verloc's incuriosity and to Mr Verloc's habits of mind , which were indolent and secret . 
They refrained from going to the bottom of facts and motives . 
This reserve , expressing , in a way , their profound confidence in each other , introduced at the same time a certain element of vagueness into their intimacy . 
No system of conjugal relations is perfect . 
Mr Verloc presumed that his wife had understood him , but he would have been glad to hear her say what she thought at the moment . 
It would have been a comfort . 
There were several reasons why this comfort was denied him . 
There was a physical obstacle Mrs Verloc had no sufficient command over her voice . 
She did not see any alternative between screaming and silence , and instinctively she chose the silence . 
Winnie Verloc was temperamentally a silent person . 
And there was the paralysing atrocity of the thought which occupied her . 
Her cheeks were blanched , her lips ashy , her immobility amazing . 
And she thought without looking at Mr Verloc This man took the boy away to murder him . 
He took the boy away from his home to murder him . 
He took the boy away from me to murder him ! Mrs Verloc's whole being was racked by that inconclusive and maddening thought . 
It was in her veins , in her bones , in the roots of her hair . 
Mentally she assumed the biblical attitude of mourning the covered face , the rent garments the sound of wailing and lamentation filled her head . 
But her teeth were violently clenched , and her tearless eyes were hot with rage , because she was not a submissive creature . 
The protection she had extended over her brother had been in its origin of a fierce an indignant complexion . 
She had to love him with a militant love . 
She had battled for him even against herself . 
His loss had the bitterness of defeat , with the anguish of a baffled passion . 
It was not an ordinary stroke of death . 
Moreover , it was not death that took Stevie from her . 
It was Mr Verloc who took him away . 
She had watched him , without raising a hand , take the boy away . 
And she had let him go , like like a fool a blind fool . 
Then after he had murdered the boy he came home to her . 
Just came home like any other man would come home to his wife . 
Through her set teeth Mrs Verloc muttered at the wall And I thought he had caught a cold . 
Mr Verloc heard these words and appropriated them . 
It was nothing , he said moodily . 
I was upset on your account . 
Mrs Verloc , turning her head slowly , transferred her stare from the wall to her husband's person . 
Mr Verloc , with the tips of his fingers between his lips , was looking on the ground . 
Can't be helped , he mumbled , letting his hand fall . 
You must pull yourself together . 
You'll want all your wits about you . 
It is you who brought the police about our ears . 
Never mind , I won't say anything more about it , continued Mr Verloc magnanimously . 
I couldn't , breathed out Mrs Verloc . 
It was as if a corpse had spoken . 
Mr Verloc took up the thread of his discourse . 
I'll make them sit up . 
Once under lock and key it will be safe enough for me to talk you understand . 
You must reckon on me being two years away from you , he continued , in a tone of sincere concern . 
It will be easier for you than for me . 
You'll have something to do , while I Look here , Winnie , what you must do is to keep this business going for two years . 
You know enough for that . 
You've a good head on you . 
I'll send you word when it's time to go about trying to sell . 
You'll have to be extra careful . 
The comrades will be keeping an eye on you all the time . 
You'll have to be as artful as you know how , and as close as the grave . 
No one must know what you are going to do . 
I have no mind to get a knock on the head or a stab in the back directly I am let out . 
Thus spoke Mr Verloc , applying his mind with ingenuity and forethought to the problems of the future . 
His voice was sombre , because he had a correct sentiment of the situation . 
Everything which he did not wish to pass had come to pass . 
The future had become precarious . 
His judgment , perhaps , had been momentarily obscured by his dread of Mr Vladimir's truculent folly . 
Now the thing had ended in a crash . 
Mr Verloc was cool but he was not cheerful . 
A secret agent who throws his secrecy to the winds from desire of vengeance , and flaunts his achievements before the public eye , becomes the mark for desperate and bloodthirsty indignations . 
Without unduly exaggerating the danger , Mr Verloc tried to bring it clearly before his wife's mind . 
He repeated that he had no intention to let the revolutionises do away with him . 
He looked straight into his wife's eyes . 
The enlarged pupils of the woman received his stare into their unfathomable depths . 
I am too fond of you for that , he said , with a little nervous laugh . 
A faint flush coloured Mrs Verloc's ghastly and motionless face . 
Having done with the visions of the past , she had not only heard , but had also understood the words uttered by her husband . 
By their extreme disaccord with her mental condition these words produced on her a slightly suffocating effect . 
Mrs Verloc's mental condition had the merit of simplicity but it was not sound . 
It was governed too much by a fixed idea . 
the form of Mr Verloc went to and fro , familiarly in hat and overcoat , stamping with his boots upon her brain . 
He was probably talking too but Mrs Verloc's thought for the most part covered the voice . 
Now and then , however , the voice would make itself heard . 
Several connected words emerged at times . 
Their purport was generally hopeful . 
On each of these occasions Mrs Verloc's dilated pupils , losing their far off fixity , followed her husband's movements with the effect of black care and , impenetrable attention . 
Well informed upon all matters relating to his secret calling , Mr Verloc augured well for the success of his plans and combinations . 
He really believed that it would be upon the whole easy for him to escape the knife of infuriated revolutionists . 
too often to have many illusions one way or the other . 
For to exaggerate with judgment one must begin by measuring with nicety . 
He knew also how much virtue and how much infamy is forgotten in two years two long years . 
His first really confidential discourse to his wife was optimistic from conviction . 
He also thought it good policy to display all the assurance he could muster . 
It would put heart into the poor woman . 
On his liberation , which , harmonising with the whole tenor of his life , would be secret , of course , they would vanish together without loss of time . 
As to covering up the tracks , he begged his wife to trust him for that . 
He knew how it was to be done so that the devil himself He waved his hand . 
He wished only to put heart into her . 
It was a benevolent intention , but Mr Verloc had the misfortune not to be in accord with his audience . 
Mrs Verloc could not remember exactly where , but her heart began to beat very perceptibly . 
Mr Verloc , in a soft and conjugal tone , was now expressing his firm belief that there were yet a good few years of quiet life before them both . 
He did not go into the question of means . 
A quiet life it must be and , as it were , nestling in the shade , concealed among men whose flesh is grass modest , like the life of violets . 
The words used by Mr Verloc were Lie low for a bit . 
And far from England , of course . 
It was not clear whether Mr Verloc had in his mind Spain or South America but at any rate somewhere abroad . 
This last word , falling into Mrs Verloc's ear , produced a definite impression . 
This man was talking of going abroad . 
There would never be any occasion any more . 
The poor boy had been taken out and killed . 
The poor boy was dead . 
This shaking piece of forgetfulness stimulated Mrs Verloc's intelligence . 
She began to perceive certain consequences which would have surprised Mr Verloc . 
There was no need for her now to stay there , in that kitchen , in that house , with that man since the boy was gone for ever . 
And on that Mrs Verloc rose as if raised by a spring . 
But neither could she see what there was to keep her in the world at all . 
And this inability arrested her . 
Mr Verloc watched her with marital solicitude . 
You're looking more like yourself , he said uneasily . 
Something peculiar in the blackness of his wife's eyes disturbed his optimism . 
At that precise moment Mrs Verloc began to look upon herself as released from all earthly ties . 
Her contract with existence , as represented by that man standing over there , was at an end . 
She was a free woman . 
Had this view become in some way perceptible to Mr Verloc he would have been extremely shocked . 
In his affairs of the heart Mr Verloc had been always carelessly generous , yet always with no other idea than that of being loved for himself . 
Upon this matter , his ethical notions being in agreement with his vanity , he was completely incorrigible . 
That this should be so in the case of his virtuous and legal connection he was perfectly certain . 
He had grown older , fatter , heavier , in the belief that he lacked no fascination for being loved for his own sake . 
When he saw Mrs Verloc starting to walk out of the kitchen without a word he was disappointed . 
Where are you going to ? he called out rather sharply . 
Upstairs ? Mrs Verloc in the doorway turned at the voice . 
, with a stir of the lips which the conjugal optimism of Mr Verloc took for a wan and uncertain smile . 
That's right , he encouraged her gruffly . 
Rest and quiet's what you want . 
It won't be long before I am with you . 
Mrs Verloc , the free woman who had had really no idea where she was going to , obeyed the suggestion with rigid steadiness . 
She disappeared up the stairs . 
There was that within him which would have been more satisfied if she had been moved to throw herself upon his breast . 
But he was generous and indulgent . 
Winnie was always undemonstrative and silent . 
Neither was Mr Verloc himself prodigal of endearments and words as a rule . 
But this was not an ordinary evening . 
It was an occasion when a man wants to be fortified and strengthened by open proofs of sympathy and affection . 
Mr Verloc sighed , and put out the gas in the kitchen . 
Mr Verloc's sympathy with his wife was genuine and intense . 
It almost brought tears into his eyes as he stood in the parlour reflecting on the loneliness hanging over her head . 
In this mood Mr Verloc missed Stevie very much out of a difficult world . 
He thought mournfully of his end . 
The piece of roast beef , laid out in the likeness of funereal baked meats for Stevie's obsequies , offered itself largely to his notice . 
And Mr Verloc again partook . 
He partook ravenously , without restraint and decency , cutting thick slices with the sharp carving knife , and swallowing them without bread . 
In the course of that refection it occurred to Mr Verloc that he was not hearing his wife move about the bedroom as he should have done . 
The thought of finding her perhaps sitting on the bed in the dark not only cut Mr Verloc's appetite , but also took from him the inclination to follow her upstairs just yet . 
Laying down the carving knife , Mr Verloc listened with careworn attention . 
He was comforted by hearing her move at last . 
She walked suddenly across the room , and threw the window up . 
After a period of stillness up there , during which he figured her to himself with her head out , he heard the sash being lowered slowly . 
Then she made a few steps , and sat down . 
Every resonance of his house was familiar to Mr Verloc , who was thoroughly domesticated . 
When next he heard his wife's footsteps overhead he knew , as well as if he had seen her doing it , that she had been putting on her walking shoes . 
He kept track of her movements by the sound . 
She walked here and there violently , with abrupt stoppages , now before the chest of drawers , then in front of the wardrobe . 
An immense load of weariness , the harvest of a day of shocks and surprises , weighed Mr Verloc's energies to the ground . 
He did not raise his eyes till he heard his wife descending the stairs . 
It was as he had guessed . 
She was dressed for going out . 
Mrs Verloc was a free woman . 
She had thrown open the window of the bedroom either with the intention of screaming Murder ! Help ! or of throwing herself out . 
For she did not exactly know what use to make of her freedom . 
Her personality seemed to have been torn into two pieces , whose mental operations did not adjust themselves very well to each other . 
The street , silent and deserted from end to end , repelled her by taking sides with that man who was so certain of his impunity . 
She was afraid to shout lest no one should come . 
Obviously no one would come . 
Her instinct of self preservation recoiled from the depth of the fall into that sort of slimy , deep trench . 
Mrs Verloc closed the window , and dressed herself to go out into the street by another way . 
She was a free woman . 
She had dressed herself thoroughly , down to the tying of a black veil over her face . 
As she appeared before him in the light of the parlour , Mr Verloc observed that she had even her little handbag hanging from her left wrist . 
Flying off to her mother , of course . 
The thought that women were wearisome creatures after all presented itself to his fatigued brain . 
But he was too generous to harbour it for more than an instant . 
This man , hurt cruelly in his vanity , remained magnanimous in his conduct , allowing himself no satisfaction of a bitter smile or of a contemptuous gesture . 
There's no sense in going over there so late . 
You will never manage to get back to night . 
Before his extended hand Mrs Verloc had stopped short . 
He added heavily Your mother will be gone to bed before you get there . 
This is the sort of news that can wait . 
Nothing was further from Mrs Verloc's thoughts than going to her mother . 
She recoiled at the mere idea , and feeling a chair behind her , she obeyed the suggestion of the touch , and sat down . 
Her intention had been simply to get outside the door for ever . 
And if this feeling was correct , its mental form took an unrefined shape corresponding to her origin and station . 
I would rather walk the streets all the days of my life , she thought . 
With her hat and veil she had the air of a visitor , of having looked in on Mr Verloc for a moment . 
Her instant docility encouraged him , whilst her aspect of only temporary and silent acquiescence provoked him a little . 
Let me tell you , Winnie , he said with authority , that your place is here this evening . 
Hang it all ! you brought the damned police high and low about my ears . 
I don't blame you but it's your doing all the same . 
You'd better take this confounded hat off . 
I can't let you go out , old girl , he added in a softened voice . 
Mrs Verloc's mind got hold of that declaration with morbid tenacity . 
Now he had murdered Stevie he would never let her go . 
He would want to keep her for nothing . 
And on this characteristic reasoning , having all the force of insane logic , Mrs Verloc's disconnected wits went to work practically . 
She could slip by him , open the door , run out . 
But he would dash out after her , seize her round the body , drag her back into the shop . 
She could scratch , kick , and bite and stab too but for stabbing she wanted a knife . 
Mrs Verloc sat still under her black veil , in her own house , like a masked and mysterious visitor of impenetrable intentions . 
Mr Verloc's magnanimity was not more than human . 
She had exasperated him at last . 
Can't you say something ? You have your own dodges for vexing a man . 
Oh yes ! I know your deaf and dumb trick . 
I've seen you at it before to day . 
But just now it won't do . 
And to begin with , take this damned thing off . 
One can't tell whether one is talking to a dummy or to a live woman . 
That's better , he said , to cover his momentary uneasiness , and retreated back to his old station by the mantelpiece . 
It never entered his head that his wife could give him up . 
He felt a little ashamed of himself , for he was fond and generous . 
What could he do ? Everything had been said already . 
By heavens ! You know that I hunted high and low . 
I ran the risk of giving myself away to find somebody for that accursed job . 
And I tell you again I couldn't find anyone crazy enough or hungry enough . 
What do you take me for a murderer , or what ? The boy is gone . 
Do you think I wanted him to blow himself up ? He's gone . 
Ours are just going to begin , I tell you , precisely because he did blow himself . 
But just try to understand that it was a pure accident as much an accident as if he had been run over by a bus while crossing the street . 
His generosity was not infinite , because he was a human being and not a monster , as Mrs Verloc believed him to be . 
And when it comes to that , it's as much your doing as mine . 
You may glare as much as you like . 
I know what you can do in that way . 
Strike me dead if I ever would have thought of the lad for that purpose . 
It was you who kept on shoving him in my way when I was half distracted with the worry of keeping the lot of us out of trouble . 
What the devil made you ? One would think you were doing it on purpose . 
And I am damned if I know that you didn't . 
His husky domestic voice ceased for a while . 
Mrs Verloc made no reply . 
Before that silence he felt ashamed of what he had said . 
But as often happens to peaceful men in domestic tiffs , being ashamed he pushed another point . 
You have a devilish way of holding your tongue sometimes , he began again , without raising his voice . 
Enough to make some men go mad . 
It's lucky for you that I am not so easily put out as some of them would be by your deaf and dumb sulks . 
I am fond of you . 
But don't you go too far . 
This isn't the time for it . 
We ought to be thinking of what we've got to do . 
And I can't let you go out to night , galloping off to your mother with some crazy tale or other about me . 
Mrs Verloc heard him out with perfect propriety , and then rose from her chair in her hat and jacket like a visitor at the end of a call . 
She advanced towards her husband , one arm extended as if for a silent leave taking . 
Her net veil dangling down by one end on the left side of her face gave an air of disorderly formality to her restrained movements . 
But when she arrived as far as the hearthrug , Mr Verloc was no longer standing there . 
He had moved off in the direction of the sofa , without raising his eyes to watch the effect of his tirade . 
He was tired , resigned in a truly marital spirit . 
But he felt hurt in the tender spot of his secret weakness . 
If she would go on sulking in that dreadful overcharged silence why then she must . 
She was a master in that domestic art . 
A man isn't made of stone . 
Hang everything ! Mr Verloc reposed characteristically , clad in his outdoor garments . 
One side of his open overcoat was lying partly on the ground . 
Mr Verloc wallowed on his back . 
But he longed for a more perfect rest for sleep for a few hours of delicious forgetfulness . 
And he thought I wish she would give over this damned nonsense . 
There must have been something imperfect in Mrs Verloc's sentiment of regained freedom . 
Instead of taking the way of the door she leaned back , with her shoulders against the tablet of the mantelpiece , as a wayfarer rests against a fence . 
I wish to goodness , he growled huskily , I had never seen Greenwich Park or anything belonging to it . 
The veiled sound filled the small room with its moderate volume , well adapted to the modest nature of the wish . 
And incredible as it may appear , the eyes of Mrs Verloc seemed to grow still larger . 
The audible wish of Mr Verloc's overflowing heart flowed into an empty place in his wife's memory . 
A park ! That's where the boy was killed . 
A park smashed branches , torn leaves , gravel , bits of brotherly flesh and bone , all spouting up together in the manner of a firework . 
She remembered now what she had heard , and she remembered it pictorially . 
They had to gather him up with the shovel . 
Trembling all over with irrepressible shudders , she saw before her the very implement with its ghastly load scraped up from the ground . 
Mrs Verloc opened her eyes . 
Her face was no longer stony . 
Mrs Verloc's doubts as to the end of the bargain no longer existed her wits , no longer disconnected , were working under the control of her will . 
But Mr Verloc observed nothing . 
He was reposing in that pathetic condition of optimism induced by excess of fatigue . 
He did not want any more trouble with his wife too of all people in the world . 
He had been unanswerable in his vindication . 
He was loved for himself . 
The present phase of her silence he interpreted favourably . 
This was the time to make it up with her . 
The silence had lasted long enough . 
He broke it by calling to her in an undertone . 
Yes , answered obediently Mrs Verloc the free woman . 
She commanded her wits now , her vocal organs she felt herself to be in an almost preternaturally perfect control of every fibre of her body . 
It was all her own , because the bargain was at an end . 
She chose to answer him so readily for a purpose . 
She did not wish that man to change his position on the sofa which was very suitable to the circumstances . 
The man did not stir . 
But after answering him she remained leaning negligently against the mantelpiece in the attitude of a resting wayfarer . 
The head and shoulders of Mr Verloc were hidden from her by the high side of the sofa . 
She kept her eyes fixed on his feet . 
Come here , he said in a peculiar tone , which might have been the tone of brutality , but , was intimately known to Mrs Verloc as the note of wooing . 
She started forward at once , as if she were still a loyal woman bound to that man by an unbroken contract . 
Mr Verloc heard the creaky plank in the floor , and was content . 
But Mr Verloc did not see that . 
He was lying on his back and staring upwards . 
He saw partly on the ceiling and partly on the wall the moving shadow of an arm with a clenched hand holding a carving knife . 
It flickered up and down . 
They were leisurely enough for Mr Verloc to recognise the limb and the weapon . 
They were leisurely enough for him to take in the full meaning of the portent , and to taste the flavour of death rising in his gorge . 
His wife had gone raving mad murdering mad . 
They were leisurely enough for the first paralysing effect of this discovery to pass away before a resolute determination to come out victorious from the ghastly struggle with that armed lunatic . 
But they were not leisurely enough to allow Mr Verloc the time to move either hand or foot . 
The knife was already planted in his breast . 
It met no resistance on its way . 
Mrs Verloc had let go the knife , and her extraordinary resemblance to her late brother had faded , had become very ordinary now . 
She drew a deep breath , the first easy breath since Chief Inspector Heat had exhibited to her the labelled piece of Stevie's overcoat . 
She leaned forward on her folded arms over the side of the sofa . 
She was giddy but calm . 
She had become a free woman with a perfection of freedom which left her nothing to desire and absolutely nothing to do , since Stevie's urgent claim on her devotion no longer existed . 
Mrs Verloc , who thought in images , was not troubled now by visions , because she did not think at all . 
And she did not move . 
She was a woman enjoying her complete irresponsibility and endless leisure , almost in the manner of a corpse . 
She did not move , she did not think . 
Neither did the mortal envelope of the late Mr Verloc reposing on the sofa . 
For it had been respectable , covering by a decent reticence the problems that may arise in the practice of a secret profession and the commerce of shady wares . 
To the last its decorum had remained undisturbed by unseemly shrieks and other misplaced sincerities of conduct . 
And after the striking of the blow , this respectability was continued in immobility and silence . 
Nothing moved in the parlour till Mrs Verloc raised her head slowly and looked at the clock with inquiring mistrust . 
She had become aware of a ticking sound in the room . 
It grew upon her ear , while she remembered clearly that the clock on the wall was silent , had no audible tick . 
What did it mean by beginning to tick so loudly all of a sudden ? Its face indicated ten minutes to nine . 
Mrs Verloc cared nothing for time , and the ticking went on . 
She concluded it could not be the clock , and her sullen gaze moved along the walls , wavered , and became vague , while she strained her hearing to locate the sound . 
Tic , tic , tic . 
After listening for some time Mrs Verloc lowered her gaze deliberately on her husband's body . 
It's attitude of repose was so home like and familiar that she could do so without feeling embarrassed by any pronounced novelty in the phenomena of her home life . 
Mr Verloc was taking his habitual ease . 
By the position of the body the face of Mr Verloc was not visible to Mrs Verloc , his widow . 
It was the handle of the domestic carving knife with nothing strange about it but its position at right angles to Mr Verloc's waistcoat and the fact that something dripped from it . 
Dark drops fell on the floorcloth one after another , with a sound of ticking growing fast and furious like the pulse of an insane clock . 
At its highest speed this ticking changed into a continuous sound of trickling . 
Mrs Verloc watched that transformation with shadows of anxiety coming and going on her face . 
It was a trickle , dark , swift , thin . 
Blood ! At this unforeseen circumstance Mrs Verloc abandoned her pose of idleness and irresponsibility . 
With a sudden snatch at her skirts and a faint shriek she ran to the door , as if the trickle had been the first sign of a destroying flood . 
Mrs Verloc on reaching the door had stopped . 
A round hat disclosed in the middle of the floor by the moving of the table rocked slightly on its crown in the wind of her flight . 
, did not run beyond the door of the parlour . 
She had indeed run away so far from a mere trickle of blood , but that was a movement of instinctive repulsion . 
And there she had paused , with staring eyes and lowered head . 
Mrs Verloc was no longer giddy . 
On the other hand , she was no longer calm . 
If she avoided looking in the direction of her reposing husband it was not because she was afraid of him . 
Mr Verloc was not frightful to behold . 
Moreover , he was dead . 
Mrs Verloc entertained no vain delusions on the subject of the dead . 
Nothing brings them back , neither love nor hate . 
They can do nothing to you . 
Her mental state was tinged by a sort of austere contempt for that man who had let himself be killed so easily . 
He had been the master of a house , the husband of a woman , and the murderer of her Stevie . 
And now he was of no account in every respect . 
He was of less practical account than the clothing on his body , than his overcoat , than his boots than that hat lying on the floor . 
He was not worth looking at . 
He was even no longer the murderer of poor Stevie . 
Mrs Verloc was no longer a person of leisure and responsibility . 
The stabbing of Mr Verloc had been only a blow . 
It had been an obscurely prompted blow . 
The blood trickling on the floor off the handle of the knife had turned it into an extremely plain case of murder . 
Mrs Verloc , who always refrained from looking deep into things , was compelled to look into the very bottom of this thing . 
She saw there no haunting face , no reproachful shade , no vision of remorse , no sort of ideal conception . 
She saw there an object . 
That object was the gallows . 
Mrs Verloc was afraid of the gallows . 
She was terrified of them ideally . 
That never ! Never ! And how was it done ? The impossibility of imagining the details of such quiet execution added something maddening to her abstract terror . 
The newspapers never gave any details except one , but that one with some affectation was always there at the end of a meagre report . 
Mrs Verloc remembered its nature . 
It came with a cruel burning pain into her head , as if the words The drop given was fourteen feet had been scratched on her brain with a hot needle . 
The drop given was fourteen feet . 
These words affected her physically too . 
The drop given was fourteen feet . 
No ! that must never be . 
She could not stand THAT . 
The thought of it even was not bearable . 
She could not stand thinking of it . 
Therefore Mrs Verloc formed the resolution to go at once and throw herself into the river off one of the bridges . 
This time she managed to refasten her veil . 
With her face as if masked , all black from head to foot except for some flowers in her hat , she looked up mechanically at the clock . 
She thought it must have stopped . 
She could not believe that only two minutes had passed since she had looked at it last . 
It had been stopped all the time . 
But Mrs Verloc could not believe that . 
She seemed to have heard or read that clocks and watches always stopped at the moment of murder for the undoing of the murderer . 
To the bridge and over I go . 
But her movements were slow . 
She dragged herself painfully across the shop , and had to hold on to the handle of the door before she found the necessary fortitude to open it . 
The street frightened her , since it led either to the gallows or to the river . 
She floundered over the doorstep head forward , arms thrown out , like a person falling over the parapet of a bridge . 
This entrance into the open air had a foretaste of drowning a slimy dampness enveloped her , entered her nostrils , clung to her hair . 
It was not actually raining , but each gas lamp had a rusty little halo of mist . 
Mrs Verloc , dragging herself slowly towards it , thought that she was a very friendless woman . 
It was so true that , in a sudden longing to see some friendly face , she could think of no one else but of Mrs Neale , the charwoman . 
She had no acquaintances of her own . 
Nobody would miss her in a social way . 
It must not be imagined that the Widow Verloc had forgotten her mother . 
Winnie had been a good daughter because she had been a devoted sister . 
Her mother had always leaned on her for support . 
No consolation or advice could be expected there . 
Now that Stevie was dead the bond seemed to be broken . 
She could not face the old woman with the horrible tale . 
Moreover , it was too far . 
The river was her present destination . 
Mrs Verloc tried to forget her mother . 
Each step cost her an effort of will which seemed the last possible . 
Mrs Verloc had dragged herself past the red glow of the eating house window . 
To the bridge and over I go , she repeated to herself with fierce obstinacy . 
She put out her hand just in time to steady herself against a lamp post . 
I'll never get there before morning , she thought . 
The fear of death paralysed her efforts to escape the gallows . 
It seemed to her she had been staggering in that street for hours . 
I'll never get there , she thought . 
They'll find me knocking about the streets . 
She held on , panting under her black veil . 
The drop given was fourteen feet . 
She pushed the lamp post away from her violently , and found herself walking . 
But another wave of faintness overtook her like a great sea , washing away her heart clean out of her breast . 
I will never get there , she muttered , suddenly arrested , swaying lightly where she stood . 
And perceiving the utter impossibility of walking as far as the nearest bridge , Mrs Verloc thought of a flight abroad . 
It came to her suddenly . 
The vast world created for the glory of man was only a vast blank to Mrs Verloc . 
She did not know which way to turn . 
Murderers had friends , relations , helpers they had knowledge . 
She was the most lonely of murderers that ever struck a mortal blow . 
Raising her head , she saw a man's face peering closely at her veil . 
Comrade Ossipon was not afraid of strange women , and no feeling of false delicacy could prevent him from striking an acquaintance with a woman apparently very much intoxicated . 
Comrade Ossipon was interested in women . 
Mrs Verloc ! he exclaimed . 
You here ! It seemed impossible to him that she should have been drinking . 
He did not go into that question , but attentive not to discourage kind fate surrendering to him the widow of Comrade Verloc , he tried to draw her to his breast . 
To his astonishment she came quite easily , and even rested on his arm for a moment before she attempted to disengage herself . 
Comrade Ossipon would not be brusque with kind fate . 
He withdrew his arm in a natural way . 
You recognised me , she faltered out , standing before him , fairly steady on her legs . 
Of course I did , said Ossipon with perfect readiness . 
I was afraid you were going to fall . 
I've thought of you too often lately not to recognise you anywhere , at any time . 
I've always thought of you ever since I first set eyes on you . 
Mrs Verloc seemed not to hear . 
You were coming to the shop ? she said nervously . 
Yes at once , answered Ossipon . 
Directly I read the paper . 
In fact , Comrade Ossipon had been skulking for a good two hours in the neighbourhood of Brett Street , unable to make up his mind for a bold move . 
The robust anarchist was not exactly a bold conqueror . 
He remembered that Mrs Verloc had never responded to his glances by the slightest sign of encouragement . 
Besides , he thought the shop might be watched by the police , and Comrade Ossipon did not wish the police to form an exaggerated notion of his revolutionary sympathies . 
Even now he did not know precisely what to do . 
In comparison with his usual amatory speculations this was a big and serious undertaking . 
These perplexities checking his elation imparted to his tone a soberness well in keeping with the circumstances . 
May I ask you where you were going ? he inquired in a subdued voice . 
Don't ask me ! cried Mrs Verloc with a shuddering , repressed violence . 
All her strong vitality recoiled from the idea of death . 
Never mind where I was going . 
Ossipon concluded that she was very much excited but perfectly sober . 
She remained silent by his side for moment , then all at once she did something which he did not expect . 
She slipped her hand under his arm . 
He was startled by the act itself certainly , and quite as much too by the palpably resolute character of this movement . 
But this being a delicate affair , Comrade Ossipon behaved with delicacy . 
He contented himself by pressing the hand slightly against his robust ribs . 
At the same time he felt himself being impelled forward , and yielded to the impulse . 
At the end of Brett Street he became aware of being directed to the left . 
The dark forms of the man and woman glided slowly arm in arm along the walls with a loverlike and homeless aspect in the miserable night . 
What would you say if I were to tell you that I was going to find you ? Mrs Verloc asked , gripping his arm with force . 
I would say that you couldn't find anyone more ready to help you in your trouble , answered Ossipon , with a notion of making tremendous headway . 
In fact , the progress of this delicate affair was almost taking his breath away . 
In my trouble ! Mrs Verloc repeated slowly . 
And do you know what my trouble is ? she whispered with strange intensity . 
Comrade Ossipon assumed correctly that no woman was capable of wholly disbelieving such a statement . 
But he did not know that Mrs Verloc accepted it with all the fierceness the instinct of self preservation puts into the grip of a drowning person . 
To the widow of Mr Verloc the robust anarchist was like a radiant messenger of life . 
They walked slowly , in step . 
I thought so , Mrs Verloc murmured faintly . 
You've read it in my eyes , suggested Ossipon with great assurance . 
Yes , she breathed out into his inclined ear . 
He applied himself to the sentimental side of the affair . 
In his heart of hearts he was a little shocked at his success . 
Verloc had been a good fellow , and certainly a very decent husband as far as one could see . 
However , Comrade Ossipon was not going to quarrel with his luck for the sake of a dead man . 
Resolutely he suppressed his sympathy for the ghost of Comrade Verloc , and went on . 
I could not conceal it . 
I was too full of you . 
I daresay you could not help seeing it in my eyes . 
But I could not guess it . 
You were always so distant . 
What else did you expect ? burst out Mrs Verloc . 
I was a respectable woman She paused , then added , as if speaking to herself , in sinister resentment Till he made me what I am . 
Ossipon let that pass , and took up his running . 
He never did seem to me to be quite worthy of you , he began , throwing loyalty to the winds . 
You were worthy of a better fate . 
Mrs Verloc interrupted bitterly Better fate ! He cheated me out of seven years of life . 
You seemed to live so happily with him . 
Ossipon tried to exculpate the lukewarmness of his past conduct . 
It's that what's made me timid . 
You seemed to love him . 
I was surprised and jealous , he added . 
Love him ! Mrs Verloc cried out in a whisper , full of scorn and rage . 
Love him ! I was a good wife to him . 
I am a respectable woman . 
You thought I loved him ! You did ! Look here , Tom The sound of this name thrilled Comrade Ossipon with pride . 
For his name was Alexander , and he was called Tom by arrangement with the most familiar of his intimates . 
It was a name of friendship of moments of expansion . 
He had no idea that she had ever heard it used by anybody . 
It was apparent that she had not only caught it , but had treasured it in her memory perhaps in her heart . 
Look here , Tom ! I was a young girl . 
I had two people depending on what I could do , and it did seem as if I couldn't do any more . 
Two people mother and the boy . 
He was much more mine than mother's . 
I sat up nights and nights with him on my lap , all alone upstairs , when I wasn't more than eight years old myself . 
And then He was mine , I tell you . 
No man can understand it . 
That was the man I loved then , went on the widow of Mr Verloc . 
I suppose he could see it in my eyes too . 
But he would hang about me , till one evening I found the courage to slam the door in his face . 
I had to do it . 
Five and twenty shillings a week ! There was that other man a good lodger . 
What is a girl to do ? Could I've gone on the streets ? He seemed kind . 
He wanted me , anyhow . 
What was I to do with mother and that poor boy ? Eh ? I said yes . 
He seemed good natured , he was freehanded , he had money , he never said anything . 
Seven years seven years a good wife to him , the kind , the good , the generous , the And he loved me . 
He loved me till I sometimes wished myself Seven years . 
Seven years a wife to him . 
I I understand , he floundered on , his mind speculating as to what sort of atrocities Verloc could have practised under the sleepy , placid appearances of his married estate . 
I understand , he repeated , and then by a sudden inspiration uttered an Unhappy woman ! of lofty commiseration instead of the more familiar Poor darling ! of his usual practice . 
This was no usual case . 
He felt conscious of something abnormal going on , while he never lost sight of the greatness of the stake . 
Unhappy , brave woman ! He was glad to have discovered that variation but he could discover nothing else . 
Ah , but he is dead now , was the best he could do . 
And he put a remarkable amount of animosity into his guarded exclamation . 
Mrs Verloc caught at his arm with a sort of frenzy . 
You guessed then he was dead , she murmured , as if beside herself . 
You ! You guessed what I had to do . 
Had to ! There were suggestions of triumph , relief , gratitude in the indefinable tone of these words . 
It engrossed the whole attention of Ossipon to the detriment of mere literal sense . 
He wondered what was up with her , why she had worked herself into this state of wild excitement . 
He even began to wonder whether the hidden causes of that Greenwich Park affair did not lie deep in the unhappy circumstances of the Verlocs' married life . 
He went so far as to suspect Mr Verloc of having selected that extraordinary manner of committing suicide . 
By Jove ! that would account for the utter inanity and wrong headedness of the thing . 
No anarchist manifestation was required by the circumstances . 
Quite the contrary and Verloc was as well aware of that as any other revolutionist of his standing . 
Alexander Ossipon , nicknamed the Doctor , was naturally inclined to think indulgently of his men friends . 
He eyed Mrs Verloc hanging on his arm . 
Of his women friends he thought in a specially practical way . 
Why Mrs Verloc should exclaim at his knowledge of Mr Verloc's death , which was no guess at all , did not disturb him beyond measure . 
They often talked like lunatics . 
But he was curious to know how she had been informed . 
The papers could tell her nothing beyond the mere fact the man blown to pieces in Greenwich Park not having been identified . 
It was inconceivable on any theory that Verloc should have given her an inkling of his intention whatever it was . 
This problem interested Comrade Ossipon immensely . 
They had gone then along the three sides of Brett Place , and were near the end of Brett Street again . 
She shook violently for a while before she answered in a listless voice . 
A chief inspector came , Chief Inspector Heat he said he was . 
He showed me Mrs Verloc choked . 
Oh , Tom , they had to gather him up with a shovel . 
Her breast heaved with dry sobs . 
In a moment Ossipon found his tongue . 
The police ! Do you mean to say the police came already ? That Chief Inspector Heat himself actually came to tell you . 
Yes , she confirmed in the same listless tone . 
He came just like this . 
He showed me a piece of overcoat , and just like that . 
Do you know this ? he says . 
Heat ! Heat ! And what did he do ? Mrs Verloc's head dropped . 
The police were on that man's side , she murmured tragically . 
Another another inspector , do you mean ? asked Ossipon , in great excitement , and very much in the tone of a scared child . 
He looked like a foreigner . 
He may have been one of them Embassy people . 
Comrade Ossipon nearly collapsed under this new shock . 
Embassy ! Are you aware what you are saying ? What Embassy ? What on earth do you mean by Embassy ? It's that place in Chesham Square . 
The people he cursed so . 
What does it matter ! And that fellow , what did he do or say to you ? I don't remember . 
Don't ask me , she pleaded in a weary voice . 
I won't , assented Ossipon tenderly . 
He had the woman there , absolutely flinging herself at him , and that was the principal consideration . 
But after what he had heard nothing could astonish him any more . 
Near him , her black form merged in the night , like a figure half chiselled out of a block of black stone . 
It was impossible to say what she knew , how deep she was involved with policemen and Embassies . 
But if she wanted to get away , it was not for him to object . 
He was anxious to be off himself . 
He felt that the business , the shop so strangely familiar to chief inspectors and members of foreign Embassies , was not the place for him . 
But there was the rest . 
The money ! You must hide me till the morning somewhere , she said in a dismayed voice . 
Fact is , my dear , I can't take you where I live . 
I share the room with a friend . 
He was somewhat dismayed himself . 
In the morning the blessed tecs will be out in all the stations , no doubt . 
And if they once got hold of her , for one reason or another she would be lost to him indeed . 
Don't you care for me at all at all ? What are you thinking of ? She said this violently , but she let her clasped hands fall in discouragement . 
There was a silence , while the mist fell , and darkness reigned undisturbed over Brett Place . 
Not a soul , not even the vagabond , lawless , and amorous soul of a cat , came near the man and the woman facing each other . 
It would be possible perhaps to find a safe lodging somewhere , Ossipon spoke at last . 
But the truth is , my dear , I have not enough money to go and try with only a few pence . 
We revolutionists are not rich . 
He had fifteen shillings in his pocket . 
He added And there's the journey before us , too first thing in the morning at that . 
She did not move , made no sound , and Comrade Ossipon's heart sank a little . 
Apparently she had no suggestion to offer . 
Suddenly she clutched at her breast , as if she had felt a sharp pain there . 
But I have , she gasped . 
Tom ! Let us go from here . 
How much have you got ? he inquired , without stirring to her tug for he was a cautious man . 
I have the money , I tell you . 
Yes , yes ! she said nervously . 
How on earth did you manage to get hold of it already ? he marvelled . 
He gave it to me , she murmured , suddenly subdued and trembling . 
Comrade Ossipon put down his rising surprise with a firm hand . 
Why , then we are saved , he uttered slowly . 
She leaned forward , and sank against his breast . 
She had all the money . 
Her hat was in the way of very marked effusion her veil too . 
He was adequate in his manifestations , but no more . 
She received them without resistance and without abandonment , passively , as if only half sensible . 
She freed herself from his lax embraces without difficulty . 
You will save me , Tom , she broke out , recoiling , but still keeping her hold on him by the two lapels of his damp coat . 
Don't let them have me . 
You must kill me first . 
I couldn't do it myself I couldn't , I couldn't not even for what I am afraid of . 
She was confoundedly bizarre , he thought . 
She was beginning to inspire him with an indefinite uneasiness . 
He said surlily , for he was busy with important thoughts What the devil ARE you afraid of ? Haven't you guessed what I was driven to do ! cried the woman . 
She had no conscience of how little she had audibly said in the disjointed phrases completed only in her thought . 
Haven't you guessed what I was driven to do ! Her voice fell . 
You needn't be long in guessing then what I am afraid of , she continued , in a bitter and sombre murmur . 
You must promise to kill me first ! She shook the lapels of his coat . 
His sagacity in this case was busy in other directions . 
Women's words fell into water , but the shortcomings of time tables remained . 
The insular nature of Great Britain obtruded itself upon his notice in an odious form . 
Might just as well be put under lock and key every night , he thought irritably , as nonplussed as though he had a wall to scale with the woman on his back . 
Suddenly he slapped his forehead . 
He had by dint of cudgelling his brains just thought of the Southampton St Malo service . 
The boat left about midnight . 
There was a train at . 
He became cheery and ready to act . 
We are all right after all . 
What's the matter now ? This isn't the way , he protested . 
Mrs Verloc , having hooked her arm into his , was trying to drag him into Brett Street again . 
I've forgotten to shut the shop door as I went out , she whispered , terribly agitated . 
The shop and all that was in it had ceased to interest Comrade Ossipon . 
He knew how to limit his desires . 
He was on the point of saying What of that ? Let it be , but he refrained . 
He disliked argument about trifles . 
He even mended his pace considerably on the thought that she might have left the money in the drawer . 
But his willingness lagged behind her feverish impatience . 
The shop seemed to be quite dark at first . 
Mrs Verloc , leaning against the front , gasped out Nobody has been in . 
Look ! The light the light in the parlour . 
Ossipon , stretching his head forward , saw a faint gleam in the darkness of the shop . 
There is , he said . 
Mrs Verloc's voice came from behind her veil faintly . 
And as he stood waiting for her to enter first , she said louder Go in and put it out or I'll go mad . 
He made no immediate objection to this proposal , so strangely motived . 
Where's all that money ? he asked . 
On me ! Go , Tom . 
Quick ! Put it out . 
Go in ! she cried , seizing him by both shoulders from behind . 
Not prepared for a display of physical force , Comrade Ossipon stumbled far into the shop before her push . 
He was astonished at the strength of the woman and scandalised by her proceedings . 
But he did not retrace his steps in order to remonstrate with her severely in the street . 
He was beginning to be disagreeably impressed by her fantastic behaviour . 
Moreover , this or never was the time to humour the woman . 
Comrade Ossipon avoided easily the end of the counter , and approached calmly the glazed door of the parlour . 
The curtain over the panes being drawn back a little he , by a very natural impulse , looked in , just as he made ready to turn the handle . 
He looked in without a thought , without intention , without curiosity of any sort . 
He looked in because he could not help looking in . 
He looked in , and discovered Mr Verloc reposing quietly on the sofa . 
A yell coming from the innermost depths of his chest died out unheard and transformed into a sort of greasy , sickly taste on his lips . 
At the same time the mental personality of Comrade Ossipon executed a frantic leap backward . 
But his body , left thus without intellectual guidance , held on to the door handle with the unthinking force of an instinct . 
The robust anarchist did not even totter . 
And he stared , his face close to the glass , his eyes protruding out of his head . 
He would have given anything to get away , but his returning reason informed him that it would not do to let go the door handle . 
What was it madness , a nightmare , or a trap into which he had been decoyed with fiendish artfulness ? Why what for ? He did not know . 
Comrade Ossipon did not feel very well in a very special way for a moment a long moment . 
Was all this a some sort of terrifying arrangement invented by the police for his especial benefit ? His modesty shrank from that explanation . 
But the true sense of the scene he was beholding came to Ossipon through the contemplation of the hat . 
It seemed an extraordinary thing , an ominous object , a sign . 
Mr Verloc did not seem so much asleep now as lying down with a bent head and looking insistently at his left breast . 
And when Comrade Ossipon had made out the handle of the knife he turned away from the glazed door , and retched violently . 
The crash of the street door flung to made his very soul leap in a panic . 
This house with its harmless tenant could still be made a trap of a trap of a terrible kind . 
Comrade Ossipon had no settled conception now of what was happening to him . 
Her hands had locked themselves with an inseparable twist of fingers on his robust back . 
And the time was long . 
And he was not even quite sure that there had been a flutter . 
He had no reason to hurry up . 
On coming abreast of the shop he observed that it had been closed early . 
There was nothing very unusual in that . 
The men on duty had special instructions about that shop what went on about there was not to be meddled with unless absolutely disorderly , but any observations made were to be reported . 
The spring latch , whose key was reposing for ever off duty in the late Mr Verloc's waistcoat pocket , held as well as usual . 
The constable moved away , flashing as he passed the light of his dark lantern , merely for form's sake , at the shop window . 
For a moment longer the man and the woman inside stood motionless , panting , breast to breast then her fingers came unlocked , her arms fell by her side slowly . 
Ossipon leaned against the counter . 
The robust anarchist wanted support badly . 
He was almost too disgusted for speech . 
Yet he managed to utter a plaintive thought , showing at least that he realised his position . 
Only a couple of minutes later and you'd have made me blunder against the fellow poking about here with his damned dark lantern . 
The widow of Mr Verloc , motionless in the middle of the shop , said insistently Go in and put that light out , Tom . 
It will drive me crazy . 
She saw vaguely his vehement gesture of refusal . 
Nothing in the world would have induced Ossipon to go into the parlour . 
He was not superstitious , but there was too much blood on the floor a beastly pool of it all round the hat . 
He judged he had been already far too near that corpse for his peace of mind for the safety of his neck , perhaps ! At the meter then ! There . 
The robust form of Comrade Ossipon , striding brusque and shadowy across the shop , squatted in a corner obediently but this obedience was without grace . 
He fumbled nervously and suddenly in the sound of a muttered curse the light behind the glazed door flicked out to a gasping , hysterical sigh of a woman . 
Ossipon groped his way back through the stuffy atmosphere , as black as ink now , to the counter . 
The voice of Mrs Verloc , standing in the middle of the shop , vibrated after him in that blackness with a desperate protest . 
I will not be hanged , Tom . 
I will not She broke off . 
Ossipon from the counter issued a warning Don't shout like this , then seemed to reflect profoundly . 
Yes , she whispered , invisible . 
I wouldn't have believed it possible , he muttered . 
She heard him move about and the snapping of a lock in the parlour door . 
He did not believe the woman , or rather he was incapable by now of judging what could be true , possible , or even probable in this astounding universe . 
He was terrified at the thought that he could not prove the use he made of his time ever since seven o'clock , for he had been skulking about Brett Street . 
He was terrified at this savage woman who had brought him in there , and would probably saddle him with complicity , at least if he were not careful . 
He was terrified at the rapidity with which he had been involved in such dangers decoyed into it . 
It was some twenty minutes since he had met her not more . 
The voice of Mrs Verloc rose subdued , pleading piteously Don't let them hang me , Tom ! Take me out of the country . 
I've no one in the world . 
I won't ask you to marry me , she breathed out in shame faced accents . 
She moved a step forward in the darkness . 
He was terrified at her . 
He would not have been surprised if she had suddenly produced another knife destined for his breast . 
He certainly would have made no resistance . 
He had really not enough fortitude in him just then to tell her to keep back . 
But he inquired in a cavernous , strange tone Was he asleep ? No , she cried , and went on rapidly . 
He had been telling me that nothing could touch him . 
After taking the boy away from under my very eyes to kill him the loving , innocent , harmless lad . 
My own , I tell you . 
He was lying on the couch quite easy after killing the boy my boy . 
I would have gone on the streets to get out of his sight . 
And he says to me like this Come here , after telling me I had helped to kill the boy . 
You hear , Tom ? He says like this Come here , after taking my very heart out of me along with the boy to smash in the dirt . 
She ceased , then dreamily repeated twice Blood and dirt . 
A great light broke upon Comrade Ossipon . 
It was that half witted lad then who had perished in the park . 
And the fooling of everybody all round appeared more complete than ever colossal . 
He exclaimed scientifically , in the extremity of his astonishment The degenerate by heavens ! Come here . 
The voice of Mrs Verloc rose again . 
What did he think I was made of ? Tell me , Tom . 
Come here ! Me ! Like this ! I had been looking at the knife , and I thought I would come then if he wanted me so much . 
Oh yes ! I came for the last time . 
He was excessively terrified at her the sister of the degenerate a degenerate herself of a murdering type . 
or else of the lying type . 
Comrade Ossipon might have been said to be terrified scientifically in addition to all other kinds of fear . 
It was an immeasurable and composite funk , which from its very excess gave him in the dark a false appearance of calm and thoughtful deliberation . 
For he moved and spoke with difficulty , being as if half frozen in his will and mind and no one could see his ghastly face . 
He leaped a foot high . 
Unexpectedly Mrs Verloc had desecrated the unbroken reserved decency of her home by a shrill and terrible shriek . 
Help , Tom ! Save me . 
I won't be hanged ! He rushed forward , groping for her mouth with a silencing hand , and the shriek died out . 
But in his rush he had knocked her over . 
He felt her now clinging round his legs , and his terror reached its culminating point , became a sort of intoxication , entertained delusions , acquired the characteristics of delirium tremens . 
He positively saw snakes now . 
He saw the woman twined round him like a snake , not to be shaken off . 
She was death itself the companion of life . 
Mrs Verloc , as if relieved by the outburst , was very far from behaving noisily now . 
Tom , you can't throw me off now , she murmured from the floor . 
Not unless you crush my head under your heel . 
Get up , said Ossipon . 
His face was so pale as to be quite visible in the profound black darkness of the shop while Mrs Verloc , veiled , had no face , almost no discernible form . 
The trembling of something small and white , a flower in her hat , marked her place , her movements . 
It rose in the blackness . 
She had got up from the floor , and Ossipon regretted not having , run out at once into the street . 
But he perceived easily that it would not do . 
She would run after him . 
She would pursue him shrieking till she sent every policeman within hearing in chase . 
And then goodness only knew what she would say of him . 
He was so frightened that for a moment the insane notion of strangling her in the dark passed through his mind . 
And Mrs Verloc waited in silence the good pleasure of her saviour , deriving comfort from his reflective silence . 
Suddenly he spoke up in an almost natural voice . 
His reflections had come to an end . 
Let's get out , or we will lose the train . 
Where are we going to , Tom ? she asked timidly . 
Mrs Verloc was no longer a free woman . 
Let's get to Paris first , the best way we can . 
Go out first , and see if the way's clear . 
Her voice came subdued through the cautiously opened door . 
In the hansom , they presently picked up , the robust anarchist became explanatory . 
He was still awfully pale , with eyes that seemed to have sunk a whole half inch into his tense face . 
But he seemed to have thought of everything with extraordinary method . 
When we arrive , he discoursed in a queer , monotonous tone , you must go into the station ahead of me , as if we did not know each other . 
I will take the tickets , and slip in yours into your hand as I pass you . 
Then you will go into the first class ladies' waiting room , and sit there till ten minutes before the train starts . 
You go in first on the platform , as if you did not know me . 
There may be eyes watching there that know what's what . 
Alone you are only a woman going off by train . 
With me , you may be guessed at as Mrs Verloc running away . 
Do you understand , my dear ? he added , with an effort . 
Yes , said Mrs Verloc , sitting there against him in the hansom all rigid with the dread of the gallows and the fear of death . 
And she added to herself , like an awful refrain The drop given was fourteen feet . 
Mrs Verloc , undoing some hooks of her bodice , while she went on staring ahead beyond the splashboard , handed over to him the new pigskin pocket book . 
He received it without a word , and seemed to plunge it deep somewhere into his very breast . 
Then he slapped his coat on the outside . 
All this was done without the exchange of a single glance they were like two people looking out for the first sight of a desired goal . 
It was not till the hansom swung round a corner and towards the bridge that Ossipon opened his lips again . 
Do you know how much money there is in that thing ? he asked , as if addressing slowly some hobgoblin sitting between the ears of the horse . 
No , said Mrs Verloc . 
He gave it to me . 
I thought nothing of it at the time . 
Afterwards She moved her right hand a little . 
It was so expressive that little movement of that right hand which had struck the deadly blow into a man's heart less than an hour before that Ossipon could not repress a shudder . 
He exaggerated it then purposely , and muttered I am cold . 
Mrs Verloc looked straight ahead at the perspective of her escape . 
Now and then , like a sable streamer blown across a road , the words The drop given was fourteen feet got in the way of her tense stare . 
Through her black veil the whites of her big eyes gleamed lustrously like the eyes of a masked woman . 
Ossipon's rigidity had something business like , a queer official expression . 
He was heard again all of a sudden , as though he had released a catch in order to speak . 
Look here ! Do you know whether your whether he kept his account at the bank in his own name or in some other name . 
Mrs Verloc turned upon him her masked face and the big white gleam of her eyes . 
Other name ? she said thoughtfully . 
Be exact in what you say , Ossipon lectured in the swift motion of the hansom . 
I will explain to you . 
The bank has the numbers of these notes . 
If they were paid to him in his own name , then when his his death becomes known , the notes may serve to track us since we have no other money . 
You have no other money on you ? She shook her head negatively . 
None whatever ? he insisted . 
It would be dangerous in that case . 
The money would have then to be dealt specially with . 
We'd have perhaps to lose more than half the amount in order to get these notes changed in a certain safe place I know of in Paris . 
In the other case I mean if he had his account and got paid out under some other name say Smith , for instance the money is perfectly safe to use . 
You understand ? The bank has no means of knowing that Mr Verloc and , say , Smith are one and the same person . 
Do you see how important it is that you should make no mistake in answering me ? Can you answer that query at all ? Perhaps not . 
Eh ? She said composedly I remember now ! He didn't bank in his own name . 
He told me once that it was on deposit in the name of Prozor . 
You are sure ? Certain . 
You don't think the bank had any knowledge of his real name ? Or anybody in the bank or She shrugged her shoulders . 
How can I know ? Is it likely , Tom ? No. I suppose it's not likely . 
It would have been more comfortable to know . 
Get out first , and walk straight in . 
He remained behind , and paid the cabman out of his own loose silver . 
The programme traced by his minute foresight was carried out . 
Trying to drive out a cold , he explained to the barmaid , with a friendly nod and a grimacing smile . 
Then he came out , bringing out from that festive interlude the face of a man who had drunk at the very Fountain of Sorrow . 
He raised his eyes to the clock . 
Punctual , Mrs Verloc came out , with her veil down , and all black black as commonplace death itself , crowned with a few cheap and pale flowers . 
She passed close to a little group of men who were laughing , but whose laughter could have been struck dead by a single word . 
Her walk was indolent , but her back was straight , and Comrade Ossipon looked after it in terror before making a start himself . 
The train was drawn up , with hardly anybody about its row of open doors . 
Owing to the time of the year and to the abominable weather there were hardly any passengers . 
Mrs Verloc walked slowly along the line of empty compartments till Ossipon touched her elbow from behind . 
She got in , and he remained on the platform looking about . 
She bent forward , and in a whisper What is it , Tom ? Is there any danger ? Wait a moment . 
She saw him accost the man in uniform . 
They talked for a while . 
She heard the guard say Very well , sir , and saw him touch his cap . 
Then Ossipon came back , saying I told him not to let anybody get into our compartment . 
She was leaning forward on her seat . 
You'll get me off , Tom ? she asked in a gust of anguish , lifting her veil brusquely to look at her saviour . 
She had uncovered a face like adamant . 
And out of this face the eyes looked on , big , dry , enlarged , lightless , burnt out like two black holes in the white , shining globes . 
This devotion deeply moved her and the adamantine face lost the stern rigidity of its terror . 
Comrade Ossipon gazed at it as no lover ever gazed at his mistress's face . 
pamphlet , late lecturer on the social aspects of hygiene to working men's clubs , was free from the trammels of conventional morality but he submitted to the rule of science . 
He was scientific , and he gazed scientifically at that woman , the sister of a degenerate , a degenerate herself of a murdering type . 
He gazed at her , and invoked Lombroso , as an Italian peasant recommends himself to his favourite saint . 
He gazed at her cheeks , at her nose , at her eyes , at her ears . 
Fatal ! Mrs Verloc's pale lips parting , slightly relaxed under his passionately attentive gaze , he gazed also at her teeth . 
But he had in him the scientific spirit , which moved him to testify on the platform of a railway station in nervous jerky phrases . 
He was an extraordinary lad , that brother of yours . 
A perfect type in a way . 
Perfect ! He spoke scientifically in his secret fear . 
He was that indeed , she whispered softly , with quivering lips . 
You took a lot of notice of him , Tom . 
I loved you for it . 
These words were not especially touching or sympathetic . 
But the fact of that resemblance insisted upon was enough in itself to act upon her emotions powerfully . 
With a little faint cry , and throwing her arms out , Mrs Verloc burst into tears at last . 
Ossipon entered the carriage , hastily closed the door and looked out to see the time by the station clock . 
For the first three of these Mrs Verloc wept violently and helplessly without pause or interruption . 
Then she recovered somewhat , and sobbed gently in an abundant fall of tears . 
She tried to talk to her saviour , to the man who was the messenger of life . 
How could I be so afraid of death ! Tom , I tried . 
I tried to do away with myself . 
Am I hard ? I suppose the cup of horrors was not full enough for such as me . 
Then in a gust of confidence and gratitude , I will live all my days for you , Tom ! she sobbed out . 
Go over into the other corner of the carriage , away from the platform , said Ossipon solicitously . 
She let her saviour settle her comfortably , and he watched the coming on of another crisis of weeping , still more violent than the first . 
He watched the symptoms with a sort of medical air , as if counting seconds . 
He heard the guard's whistle at last . 
An involuntary contraction of the upper lip bared his teeth with all the aspect of savage resolution as he felt the train beginning to move . 
Mrs Verloc heard and felt nothing , and Ossipon , her saviour , stood still . 
Only then did he find himself rolling head over heels like a shot rabbit . 
He was bruised , shaken , pale as death , and out of breath when he got up . 
But he was calm , and perfectly able to meet the excited crowd of railway men who had gathered round him in a moment . 
He had acted on impulse . 
But I don't think I'll ever try that again , he concluded smiled all round distributed some small change , and marched without a limp out of the station . 
Outside , Comrade Ossipon , flush of safe banknotes as never before in his life , refused the offer of a cab . 
I can walk , he said , with a little friendly laugh to the civil driver . 
Later on the towers of the Abbey saw in their massive immobility the yellow bush of his hair passing under the lamps . 
The lights of Victoria saw him too , and Sloane Square , and the railings of the park . 
And Comrade Ossipon once more found himself on a bridge . 
The river , a sinister marvel of still shadows and flowing gleams mingling below in a black silence , arrested his attention . 
He stood looking over the parapet for a long time . 
The clock tower boomed a brazen blast above his drooping head . 
He looked up at the dial . 
Half past twelve of a wild night in the Channel . 
And again Comrade Ossipon walked . 
His robust form was seen that night in distant parts of the enormous town slumbering monstrously on a carpet of mud under a veil of raw mist . 
It was seen crossing the streets without life and sound , or diminishing in the interminable straight perspectives of shadowy houses bordering empty roadways lined by strings of gas lamps . 
He walked through Squares , Places , Ovals , Commons , through monotonous streets with unknown names where the dust of humanity settles inert and hopeless out of the stream of life . 
He threw himself down on his bed all dressed , and lay still for a whole quarter of an hour . 
Then he sat up suddenly , drawing up his knees , and clasping his legs . 
The first dawn found him open eyed , in that same posture . 
But when the late sun sent its rays into the room he unclasped his hands , and fell back on the pillow . 
His eyes stared at the ceiling . 
Comrade Ossipon slept in the sunlight . 
The room was large , clean , respectable , and poor with that poverty suggesting the starvation of every human need except mere bread . 
There was nothing on the walls but the paper , an expanse of arsenical green , soiled with indelible smudges here and there , and with stains resembling faded maps of uninhabited continents . 
At a deal table near a window sat Comrade Ossipon , holding his head between his fists . 
He was relating to his robust guest a visit he had lately been paying to the Apostle Michaelis . 
The Perfect Anarchist had even been unbending a little . 
The fellow didn't know anything of Verloc's death . 
Of course ! He never looks at the newspapers . 
They make him too sad , he says . 
I walked into his cottage . 
I had to shout half a dozen times before he answered me . 
I thought he was fast asleep yet , in bed . 
He had been writing his book for four hours already . 
He sat in that tiny cage in a litter of manuscript . 
There was a half eaten raw carrot on the table near him . 
He lives on a diet of raw carrots and a little milk now . 
How does he look on it ? asked Comrade Ossipon listlessly . 
I picked up a handful of his pages from the floor . 
The poverty of reasoning is astonishing . 
He has divided his biography into three parts , entitled Faith , Hope , Charity . 
Conceive you this folly , Ossipon ? The weak ! The source of all evil on this earth ! he continued with his grim assurance . 
I told him that I dreamt of a world like shambles , where the weak would be taken in hand for utter extermination . 
Theirs is the kingdom of the earth . 
Exterminate , exterminate ! That is the only way of progress . 
It is ! Follow me , Ossipon . 
First the great multitude of the weak must go , then the only relatively strong . 
You see ? First the blind , then the deaf and the dumb , then the halt and the lame and so on . 
Every taint , every vice , every prejudice , every convention must meet its doom . 
And what remains ? asked Ossipon in a stifled voice . 
Haven't I suffered enough from this oppression of the weak ? he continued forcibly . 
Then tapping the breast pocket of his jacket And yet I AM the force , he went on . 
But the time ! The time ! Give me time ! Ah ! that multitude , too stupid to feel either pity or fear . 
Sometimes I think they have everything on their side . 
Everything even death my own weapon . 
He was jovial that day in his own peculiar way . 
Beer ! So be it ! Let us drink and he merry , for we are strong , and to morrow we die . 
He busied himself with putting on his boots , and talked meanwhile in his curt , resolute tones . 
What's the matter with you , Ossipon ? You look glum and seek even my company . 
I hear that you are seen constantly in places where men utter foolish things over glasses of liquor . 
He smiled to himself grimly . 
You be damned , said Ossipon , without turning his head . 
Why ? Let that be the hope of the weak , whose theology has invented hell for the strong . 
Ossipon , my feeling for you is amicable contempt . 
You couldn't kill a fly . 
But rolling to the feast on the top of the omnibus the Professor lost his high spirits . 
And so , said over his shoulder Comrade Ossipon , who sat on the seat behind . 
And so Michaelis dreams of a world like a beautiful and cheery hospital . 
An immense charity for the healing of the weak , assented the Professor sardonically . 
That's silly , admitted Ossipon . 
But after all Michaelis may not be so far wrong . 
In two hundred years doctors will rule the world . 
It reigns in the shade maybe but it reigns . 
And all science must culminate at last in the science of healing not the weak , but the strong . 
Mankind wants to live to live . 
Mankind , asserted the Professor with a self confident glitter of his iron rimmed spectacles , does not know what it wants . 
But you do , growled Ossipon . 
Just now you've been crying for time time . 
The doctors will serve you out your time if you are good . 
You profess yourself to be one of the strong because you carry in your pocket enough stuff to send yourself and , say , twenty other people into eternity . 
But eternity is a damned hole . 
It's time that you need . 
You if you met a man who could give you for certain ten years of time , you would call him your master . 
My device is No God ! No Master , said the Professor sententiously as he rose to get off the bus . 
Wait till you are lying flat on your back at the end of your time , he retorted , jumping off the footboard after the other . 
Your scurvy , shabby , mangy little bit of time , he continued across the street , and hopping on to the curbstone . 
Ossipon , I think that you are a humbug , the Professor said , opening masterfully the doors of the renowned Silenus . 
And when they had established themselves at a little table he developed further this gracious thought . 
You are not even a doctor . 
Your notion of a humanity universally putting out the tongue and taking the pill from pole to pole at the bidding of a few solemn jokers is worthy of the prophet . 
Prophecy ! What's the good of thinking of what will be ! He raised his glass . 
To the destruction of what is , he said calmly . 
He drank and relapsed into his peculiarly close manner of silence . 
The thought of a mankind as numerous as the sands of the sea shore , as indestructible , as difficult to handle , oppressed him . 
The sound of exploding bombs was lost in their immensity of passive grains without an echo . 
For instance , this Verloc affair . 
Who thought of it now ? Ossipon , as if suddenly compelled by some mysterious force , pulled a much folded newspaper out of is pocket . 
The Professor raised his head at the rustle . 
What's that paper ? Anything in it ? he asked . 
Ossipon started like a scared somnambulist . 
The thing's ten days old . 
I forgot it in my pocket , I suppose . 
But he did not throw the old thing away . 
Before returning it to his pocket he stole a glance at the last lines of a paragraph . 
They ran thus AN IMPENETRABLE MYSTERY SEEMS DESTINED TO HANG FOR EVER OVER THIS ACT OF MADNESS OR DESPAIR . 
Such were the end words of an item of news headed Suicide of Lady Passenger from a cross Channel Boat . 
Comrade Ossipon was familiar with the beauties of its journalistic style . 
AN IMPENETRABLE MYSTERY SEEMS DESTINED TO HANG FOR EVER . 
He knew every word by heart . 
And the robust anarchist , hanging his head on his breast , fell into a long reverie . 
He was menaced by this thing in the very sources of his existence . 
He was becoming scientifically afraid of insanity lying in wait for him amongst these lines . 
TO HANG FOR EVER OVER . 
It was an obsession , a torture . 
He had lately failed to keep several of these appointments , whose note used to be an unbounded trustfulness in the language of sentiment and manly tenderness . 
The confiding disposition of various classes of women satisfied the needs of his self love , and put some material means into his hand . 
He needed it to live . 
But if he could no longer make use of it , he ran the risk of starving his ideals and his body . 
THIS ACT OF MADNESS OR DESPAIR . 
An impenetrable mystery was sure to hang for ever as far as all mankind was concerned . 
Comrade Ossipon was well informed . 
He knew what the gangway man of the steamer had seen A lady in a black dress and a black veil , wandering at midnight alongside , on the quay . 
Are you going by the boat , ma'am , he had asked her encouragingly . 
She seemed not to know what to do . 
He helped her on board . 
And he knew also what the stewardess had seen A lady in black with a white face standing in the middle of the empty ladies' cabin . 
The stewardess induced her to lie down there . 
The lady seemed quite unwilling to speak , and as if she were in some awful trouble . 
The next the stewardess knew she was gone from the ladies' cabin . 
The stewardess then went on deck to look for her , and Comrade Ossipon was informed that the good woman found the unhappy lady lying down in one of the hooded seats . 
Her eyes were open , but she would not answer anything that was said to her . 
The stewardess fetched the chief steward , and those two people stood by the side of the hooded seat consulting over their extraordinary and tragic passenger . 
of St Malo and the Consul there , of communicating with her people in England . 
Then they went away to arrange for her removal down below , for indeed by what they could see of her face she seemed to them to be dying . 
It was then five o'clock in the morning , and it was no accident either . 
An hour afterwards one of the steamer's hands found a wedding ring left lying on the seat . 
It had stuck to the wood in a bit of wet , and its glitter caught the man's eye . 
There was a date , th June , engraved inside . 
AN IMPENETRABLE MYSTERY IS DESTINED TO HANG FOR EVER . 
And Comrade Ossipon raised his bowed head , beloved of various humble women of these isles , Apollo like in the sunniness of its bush of hair . 
The Professor had grown restless meantime . 
Stay , said Ossipon hurriedly . 
All passion is lost now . 
The world is mediocre , limp , without force . 
And madness and despair are a force . 
And force is a crime in the eyes of the fools , the weak and the silly who rule the roost . 
Verloc , whose affair the police has managed to smother so nicely , was mediocre . 
And the police murdered him . 
Madness and despair ! Give me that for a lever , and I'll move the world . 
Ossipon , you have my cordial scorn . 
You are incapable of conceiving even what the fat fed citizen would call a crime . 
He paused , smiling sardonically under the fierce glitter of his thick glasses . 
And let me tell you that this little legacy they say you've come into has not improved your intelligence . 
You sit at your beer like a dummy . 
Will you have it ? said Ossipon , looking up with an idiotic grin . 
Have what ? The legacy . 
The incorruptible Professor only smiled . 
His clothes were all but falling off him , his boots , shapeless with repairs , heavy like lead , let water in at every step . 
He said I will send you by and by a small bill for certain chemicals which I shall order to morrow . 
Understood eh ? Ossipon lowered his head slowly . 
It seemed to him that suspended in the air before him he saw his own brain pulsating to the rhythm of an impenetrable mystery . 
THIS ACT OF MADNESS OR DESPAIR . 
The mechanical piano near the door played through a valse cheekily , then fell silent all at once , as if gone grumpy . 
Comrade Ossipon , nicknamed the Doctor , went out of the Silenus beer hall . 
At the door he hesitated , blinking at a not too splendid sunlight and the paper with the report of the suicide of a lady was in his pocket . 
His heart was beating against it . 
The suicide of a lady THIS ACT OF MADNESS OR DESPAIR . 
He was walking away from it . 
He could face no woman . 
He could neither think , work , sleep , nor eat . 
But he was beginning to drink with pleasure , with anticipation , with hope . 
WILL HANG FOR EVER OVER THIS ACT . 
It was inclining towards the gutter . 
I am seriously ill , he muttered to himself with scientific insight . 
in his pockets , was marching in the gutter as if in training for the task of an inevitable future . 
Already he bowed his broad shoulders , his head of ambrosial locks , as if ready to receive the leather yoke of the sandwich board . 
THIS ACT OF MADNESS OR DESPAIR . 
And the incorruptible Professor walked too , averting his eyes from the odious multitude of mankind . 
His thoughts caressed the images of ruin and destruction . 
He walked frail , insignificant , shabby , miserable and terrible in the simplicity of his idea calling madness and despair to the regeneration of the world . 
He passed on unsuspected and deadly , like a pest in the street full of men . 
