was expounding a recondite matter to us . 
His grey eyes shone and twinkled , and his usually pale face was flushed and animated . 
The fire burned brightly , and the soft radiance of the incandescent lights in the lilies of silver caught the bubbles that flashed and passed in our glasses . 
And he put it to us in this way marking the points with a lean forefinger as we sat and lazily admired his earnestness over this new paradox and his fecundity . 
You must follow me carefully . 
I shall have to controvert one or two ideas that are almost universally accepted . 
The geometry , for instance , they taught you at school is founded on a misconception . 
Is not that rather a large thing to expect us to begin upon ? said Filby , an argumentative person with red hair . 
I do not mean to ask you to accept anything without reasonable ground for it . 
You will soon admit as much as I need from you . 
You know of course that a mathematical line , a line of thickness NIL , has no real existence . 
They taught you that ? Neither has a mathematical plane . 
These things are mere abstractions . 
That is all right , said the Psychologist . 
Nor , having only length , breadth , and thickness , can a cube have a real existence . 
There I object , said Filby . 
Of course a solid body may exist . 
All real things So most people think . 
Can an INSTANTANEOUS cube exist ? Don't follow you , said Filby . 
Can a cube that does not last for any time at all , have a real existence ? Filby became pensive . 
Clearly , the Time Traveller proceeded , any real body must have extension in FOUR directions it must have Length , Breadth , Thickness , and Duration . 
But through a natural infirmity of the flesh , which I will explain to you in a moment , we incline to overlook this fact . 
There are really four dimensions , three which we call the three planes of Space , and a fourth , Time . 
That , said a very young man , making spasmodic efforts to relight his cigar over the lamp that . 
Now , it is very remarkable that this is so extensively overlooked , continued the Time Traveller , with a slight accession of cheerfulness . 
Really this is what is meant by the Fourth Dimension , though some people who talk about the Fourth Dimension do not know they mean it . 
It is only another way of looking at Time . 
THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TIME AND ANY OF THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SPACE EXCEPT THAT OUR CONSCIOUSNESS MOVES ALONG IT . 
But some foolish people have got hold of the wrong side of that idea . 
You have all heard what they have to say about this Fourth Dimension ? I have not , said the Provincial Mayor . 
But some philosophical people have been asking why THREE dimensions particularly why not another direction at right angles to the other three ? and have even tried to construct a Four Dimension geometry . 
Professor Simon Newcomb was expounding this to the New York Mathematical Society only a month or so ago . 
See ? I think so , murmured the Provincial Mayor and , knitting his brows , he lapsed into an introspective state , his lips moving as one who repeats mystic words . 
Yes , I think I see it now , he said after some time , brightening in a quite transitory manner . 
Well , I do not mind telling you I have been at work upon this geometry of Four Dimensions for some time . 
Some of my results are curious . 
For instance , here is a portrait of a man at eight years old , another at fifteen , another at seventeen , another at twenty three , and so on . 
All these are evidently sections , as it were , Three Dimensional representations of his Four Dimensioned being , which is a fixed and unalterable thing . 
Scientific people , proceeded the Time Traveller , after the pause required for the proper assimilation of this , know very well that Time is only a kind of Space . 
Here is a popular scientific diagram , a weather record . 
This line I trace with my finger shows the movement of the barometer . 
Yesterday it was so high , yesterday night it fell , then this morning it rose again , and so gently upward to here . 
Are you sure we can move freely in Space ? Right and left we can go , backward and forward freely enough , and men always have done so . 
I admit we move freely in two dimensions . 
But how about up and down ? Gravitation limits us there . 
Not exactly , said the Medical Man . 
But before the balloons , save for spasmodic jumping and the inequalities of the surface , man had no freedom of vertical movement . 
Still they could move a little up and down , said the Medical Man . 
Easier , far easier down than up . 
And you cannot move at all in Time , you cannot get away from the present moment . 
My dear sir , that is just where you are wrong . 
That is just where the whole world has gone wrong . 
We are always getting away from the present movement . 
Our mental existences , which are immaterial and have no dimensions , are passing along the Time Dimension with a uniform velocity from the cradle to the grave . 
Just as we should travel DOWN if we began our existence fifty miles above the earth's surface . 
But the great difficulty is this , interrupted the Psychologist . 
You CAN move about in all directions of Space , but you cannot move about in Time . 
That is the germ of my great discovery . 
But you are wrong to say that we cannot move about in Time . 
For instance , if I am recalling an incident very vividly I go back to the instant of its occurrence I become absent minded , as you say . 
I jump back for a moment . 
Of course we have no means of staying back for any length of Time , any more than a savage or an animal has of staying six feet above the ground . 
But a civilized man is better off than the savage in this respect . 
It's against reason , said Filby . 
What reason ? said the Time Traveller . 
You can show black is white by argument , said Filby , but you will never convince me . 
Possibly not , said the Time Traveller . 
But now you begin to see the object of my investigations into the geometry of Four Dimensions . 
Long ago I had a vague inkling of a machine To travel through Time ! exclaimed the Very Young Man . 
That shall travel indifferently in any direction of Space and Time , as the driver determines . 
Filby contented himself with laughter . 
But I have experimental verification , said the Time Traveller . 
It would be remarkably convenient for the historian , the Psychologist suggested . 
One might travel back and verify the accepted account of the Battle of Hastings , for instance ! Don't you think you would attract attention ? said the Medical Man . 
Our ancestors had no great tolerance for anachronisms . 
One might get one's Greek from the very lips of Homer and Plato , the Very Young Man thought . 
In which case they would certainly plough you for the Little go . 
The German scholars have improved Greek so much . 
Then there is the future , said the Very Young Man . 
Of all the wild extravagant theories ! began the Psychologist . 
Let's see your experiment anyhow , said the Psychologist , though it's all humbug , you know . 
The Time Traveller smiled round at us . 
The Psychologist looked at us . 
The thing the Time Traveller held in his hand was a glittering metallic framework , scarcely larger than a small clock , and very delicately made . 
There was ivory in it , and some transparent crystalline substance . 
And now I must be explicit , for this that follows unless his explanation is to be accepted is an absolutely unaccountable thing . 
He took one of the small octagonal tables that were scattered about the room , and set it in front of the fire , with two legs on the hearthrug . 
On this table he placed the mechanism . 
Then he drew up a chair , and sat down . 
The only other object on the table was a small shaded lamp , the bright light of which fell upon the model . 
There were also perhaps a dozen candles about , two in brass candlesticks upon the mantel and several in sconces , so that the room was brilliantly illuminated . 
I sat in a low arm chair nearest the fire , and I drew this forward so as to be almost between the Time Traveller and the fireplace . 
Filby sat behind him , looking over his shoulder . 
The Medical Man and the Provincial Mayor watched him in profile from the right , the Psychologist from the left . 
The Very Young Man stood behind the Psychologist . 
We were all on the alert . 
It appears incredible to me that any kind of trick , however subtly conceived and however adroitly done , could have been played upon us under these conditions . 
The Time Traveller looked at us , and then at the mechanism . 
Well ? said the Psychologist . 
This little affair , said the Time Traveller , resting his elbows upon the table and pressing his hands together above the apparatus , is only a model . 
It is my plan for a machine to travel through time . 
You will notice that it looks singularly askew , and that there is an odd twinkling appearance about this bar , as though it was in some way unreal . 
He pointed to the part with his finger . 
Also , here is one little white lever , and here is another . 
The Medical Man got up out of his chair and peered into the thing . 
It's beautifully made , he said . 
It took two years to make , retorted the Time Traveller . 
This saddle represents the seat of a time traveller . 
Presently I am going to press the lever , and off the machine will go . 
It will vanish , pass into future Time , and disappear . 
Have a good look at the thing . 
Look at the table too , and satisfy yourselves there is no trickery . 
I don't want to waste this model , and then be told I'm a quack . 
There was a minute's pause perhaps . 
The Psychologist seemed about to speak to me , but changed his mind . 
Then the Time Traveller put forth his finger towards the lever . 
No , he said suddenly . 
And turning to the Psychologist , he took that individual's hand in his own and told him to put out his forefinger . 
So that it was the Psychologist himself who sent forth the model Time Machine on its interminable voyage . 
We all saw the lever turn . 
I am absolutely certain there was no trickery . 
There was a breath of wind , and the lamp flame jumped . 
Everyone was silent for a minute . 
Then Filby said he was damned . 
The Psychologist recovered from his stupor , and suddenly looked under the table . 
At that the Time Traveller laughed cheerfully . 
Well ? he said , with a reminiscence of the Psychologist . 
Then , getting up , he went to the tobacco jar on the mantel , and with his back to us began to fill his pipe . 
We stared at each other . 
Then he turned , lighting his pipe , to look at the Psychologist's face . 
What is more , I have a big machine nearly finished in there' he indicated the laboratory and when that is put together I mean to have a journey on my own account . 
You mean to say that that machine has travelled into the future ? said Filby . 
Into the future or the past I don't , for certain , know which . 
After an interval the Psychologist had an inspiration . 
It must have gone into the past if it has gone anywhere , he said . 
Why ? said the Time Traveller . 
Not a bit , said the Time Traveller , and , to the Psychologist You think . 
It's presentation below the threshold , you know , diluted presentation . 
Of course , said the Psychologist , and reassured us . 
That's a simple point of psychology . 
I should have thought of it . 
It's plain enough , and helps the paradox delightfully . 
We cannot see it , nor can we appreciate this machine , any more than we can the spoke of a wheel spinning , or a bullet flying through the air . 
He passed his hand through the space in which the machine had been . 
You see ? he said , laughing . 
We sat and stared at the vacant table for a minute or so . 
Then the Time Traveller asked us what we thought of it all . 
It sounds plausible enough to night , said the Medical Man 'but wait until to morrow . 
Wait for the common sense of the morning . 
Would you like to see the Time Machine itself ? asked the Time Traveller . 
And therewith , taking the lamp in his hand , he led the way down the long , draughty corridor to his laboratory . 
Parts were of nickel , parts of ivory , parts had certainly been filed or sawn out of rock crystal . 
The thing was generally complete , but the twisted crystalline bars lay unfinished upon the bench beside some sheets of drawings , and I took one up for a better look at it . 
Quartz it seemed to be . 
Is that plain ? I was never more serious in my life . 
None of us quite knew how to take it . 
I caught Filby's eye over the shoulder of the Medical Man , and he winked at me solemnly . 
II I think that at that time none of us quite believed in the Time Machine . 
Had Filby shown the model and explained the matter in the Time Traveller's words , we should have shown HIM far less scepticism . 
For we should have perceived his motives a pork butcher could understand Filby . 
But the Time Traveller had more than a touch of whim among his elements , and we distrusted him . 
Things that would have made the frame of a less clever man seemed tricks in his hands . 
It is a mistake to do things too easily . 
For my own part , I was particularly preoccupied with the trick of the model . 
That I remember discussing with the Medical Man , whom I met on Friday at the Linnaean . 
He said he had seen a similar thing at Tubingen , and laid considerable stress on the blowing out of the candle . 
But how the trick was done he could not explain . 
The Medical Man was standing before the fire with a sheet of paper in one hand and his watch in the other . 
I looked round for the Time Traveller , and It's half past seven now , said the Medical Man . 
I suppose we'd better have dinner ? Where's ? said I , naming our host . 
You've just come ? It's rather odd . 
He asks me in this note to lead off with dinner at seven if he's not back . 
Says he'll explain when he comes . 
It seems a pity to let the dinner spoil , said the Editor of a well known daily paper and thereupon the Doctor rang the bell . 
The Psychologist was the only person besides the Doctor and myself who had attended the previous dinner . 
There was some speculation at the dinner table about the Time Traveller's absence , and I suggested time travelling , in a half jocular spirit . 
The Editor wanted that explained to him , and the Psychologist volunteered a wooden account of the ingenious paradox and trick' we had witnessed that day week . 
He was in the midst of his exposition when the door from the corridor opened slowly and without noise . 
I was facing the door , and saw it first . 
At last ! And the door opened wider , and the Time Traveller stood before us . 
I gave a cry of surprise . 
Good heavens ! man , what's the matter ? cried the Medical Man , who saw him next . 
And the whole tableful turned towards the door . 
He was in an amazing plight . 
His face was ghastly pale his chin had a brown cut on it a cut half healed his expression was haggard and drawn , as by intense suffering . 
For a moment he hesitated in the doorway , as if he had been dazzled by the light . 
Then he came into the room . 
He walked with just such a limp as I have seen in footsore tramps . 
We stared at him in silence , expecting him to speak . 
He said not a word , but came painfully to the table , and made a motion towards the wine . 
The Editor filled a glass of champagne , and pushed it towards him . 
He drained it , and it seemed to do him good for he looked round the table , and the ghost of his old smile flickered across his face . 
What on earth have you been up to , man ? said the Doctor . 
The Time Traveller did not seem to hear . 
Don't let me disturb you , he said , with a certain faltering articulation . 
He stopped , held out his glass for more , and took it off at a draught . 
That's good , he said . 
His eyes grew brighter , and a faint colour came into his cheeks . 
His glance flickered over our faces with a certain dull approval , and then went round the warm and comfortable room . 
Then he spoke again , still as it were feeling his way among his words . 
I'm going to wash and dress , and then I'll come down and explain things . 
Save me some of that mutton . 
I'm starving for a bit of meat . 
He looked across at the Editor , who was a rare visitor , and hoped he was all right . 
The Editor began a question . 
Tell you presently , said the Time Traveller . 
I'm funny ! Be all right in a minute . 
He put down his glass , and walked towards the staircase door . 
Again I remarked his lameness and the soft padding sound of his footfall , and standing up in my place , I saw his feet as he went out . 
He had nothing on them but a pair of tattered blood stained socks . 
Then the door closed upon him . 
I had half a mind to follow , till I remembered how he detested any fuss about himself . 
For a minute , perhaps , my mind was wool gathering . 
Then , 'Remarkable Behaviour of an Eminent Scientist , I heard the Editor say , thinking in headlines . 
And this brought my attention back to the bright dinner table . 
What's the game ? said the Journalist . 
Has he been doing the Amateur Cadger ? I don't follow . 
I met the eye of the Psychologist , and read my own interpretation in his face . 
I thought of the Time Traveller limping painfully upstairs . 
I don't think any one else had noticed his lameness . 
The first to recover completely from this surprise was the Medical Man , who rang the bell the Time Traveller hated to have servants waiting at dinner for a hot plate . 
At that the Editor turned to his knife and fork with a grunt , and the Silent Man followed suit . 
Conversation was exclamatory for a little while , with gaps of wonderment and then the Editor got fervent in his curiosity . 
Does our friend eke out his modest income with a crossing ? or has he his Nebuchadnezzar phases ? he inquired . 
I feel assured it's this business of the Time Machine , I said , and took up the Psychologist's account of our previous meeting . 
The new guests were frankly incredulous . 
They were both the new kind of journalist very joyous , irreverent young men . 
Our Special Correspondent in the Day after To morrow reports , the Journalist was saying or rather shouting when the Time Traveller came back . 
He was dressed in ordinary evening clothes , and nothing save his haggard look remained of the change that had startled me . 
He smiled quietly , in his old way . 
Where's my mutton ? he said . 
What a treat it is to stick a fork into meat again ! Story ! cried the Editor . 
Story be damned ! said the Time Traveller . 
I want something to eat . 
I won't say a word until I get some peptone into my arteries . 
One word , said I. Have you been time travelling ? Yes , said the Time Traveller , with his mouth full , nodding his head . 
I'd give a shilling a line for a verbatim note , said the Editor . 
The rest of the dinner was uncomfortable . 
For my own part , sudden questions kept on rising to my lips , and I dare say it was the same with the others . 
The Journalist tried to relieve the tension by telling anecdotes of Hettie Potter . 
The Time Traveller devoted his attention to his dinner , and displayed the appetite of a tramp . 
The Medical Man smoked a cigarette , and watched the Time Traveller through his eyelashes . 
The Silent Man seemed even more clumsy than usual , and drank champagne with regularity and determination out of sheer nervousness . 
At last the Time Traveller pushed his plate away , and looked round us . 
I suppose I must apologize , he said . 
I've had a most amazing time . 
He reached out his hand for a cigar , and cut the end . 
But come into the smoking room . 
It's too long a story to tell over greasy plates . 
And ringing the bell in passing , he led the way into the adjoining room . 
You have told Blank , and Dash , and Chose about the machine ? he said to me , leaning back in his easy chair and naming the three new guests . 
But the thing's a mere paradox , said the Editor . 
I can't argue to night . 
I don't mind telling you the story , but I can't argue . 
I will , he went on , tell you the story of what has happened to me , if you like , but you must refrain from interruptions . 
I want to tell it . 
Most of it will sound like lying . 
So be it ! It's true every word of it , all the same . 
I was in my laboratory at four o'clock , and since then . 
such days as no human being ever lived before ! I'm nearly worn out , but I shan't sleep till I've told this thing over to you . 
Then I shall go to bed . 
But no interruptions ! Is it agreed ? Agreed , said the Editor , and the rest of us echoed Agreed . 
And with that the Time Traveller began his story as I have set it forth . 
He sat back in his chair at first , and spoke like a weary man . 
Afterwards he got more animated . 
In writing it down I feel with only too much keenness the inadequacy of pen and ink and , above all , my own inadequacy to express its quality . 
At first we glanced now and again at each other . 
After a time we ceased to do that , and looked only at the Time Traveller's face . 
III I told some of you last Thursday of the principles of the Time Machine , and showed you the actual thing itself , incomplete in the workshop . 
There it is now , a little travel worn , truly and one of the ivory bars is cracked , and a brass rail bent but the rest of it's sound enough . 
It was at ten o'clock to day that the first of all Time Machines began its career . 
I gave it a last tap , tried all the screws again , put one more drop of oil on the quartz rod , and sat myself in the saddle . 
I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then . 
I took the starting lever in one hand and the stopping one in the other , pressed the first , and almost immediately the second . 
I seemed to reel I felt a nightmare sensation of falling and , looking round , I saw the laboratory exactly as before . 
Had anything happened ? For a moment I suspected that my intellect had tricked me . 
Then I noted the clock . 
The laboratory got hazy and went dark . 
Mrs. Watchett came in and walked , apparently without seeing me , towards the garden door . 
I suppose it took her a minute or so to traverse the place , but to me she seemed to shoot across the room like a rocket . 
I pressed the lever over to its extreme position . 
The night came like the turning out of a lamp , and in another moment came to morrow . 
The laboratory grew faint and hazy , then fainter and ever fainter . 
To morrow night came black , then day again , night again , day again , faster and faster still . 
An eddying murmur filled my ears , and a strange , dumb confusedness descended on my mind . 
I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time travelling . 
There is a feeling exactly like that one has upon a switchback of a helpless headlong motion ! I felt the same horrible anticipation , too , of an imminent smash . 
As I put on pace , night followed day like the flapping of a black wing . 
I supposed the laboratory had been destroyed and I had come into the open air . 
I had a dim impression of scaffolding , but I was already going too fast to be conscious of any moving things . 
The slowest snail that ever crawled dashed by too fast for me . 
The twinkling succession of darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye . 
Then , in the intermittent darknesses , I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her quarters from new to full , and had a faint glimpse of the circling stars . 
The landscape was misty and vague . 
I was still on the hill side upon which this house now stands , and the shoulder rose above me grey and dim . 
I saw trees growing and changing like puffs of vapour , now brown , now green they grew , spread , shivered , and passed away . 
I saw huge buildings rise up faint and fair , and pass like dreams . 
The whole surface of the earth seemed changed melting and flowing under my eyes . 
The little hands upon the dials that registered my speed raced round faster and faster . 
The unpleasant sensations of the start were less poignant now . 
They merged at last into a kind of hysterical exhilaration . 
I remarked indeed a clumsy swaying of the machine , for which I was unable to account . 
But my mind was too confused to attend to it , so with a kind of madness growing upon me , I flung myself into futurity . 
At first I scarce thought of stopping , scarce thought of anything but these new sensations . 
But presently a fresh series of impressions grew up in my mind a certain curiosity and therewith a certain dread until at last they took complete possession of me . 
I saw a richer green flow up the hill side , and remain there , without any wintry intermission . 
Even through the veil of my confusion the earth seemed very fair . 
I told myself that I could never stop , and with a gust of petulance I resolved to stop forthwith . 
Like an impatient fool , I lugged over the lever , and incontinently the thing went reeling over , and I was flung headlong through the air . 
There was the sound of a clap of thunder in my ears . 
I may have been stunned for a moment . 
A pitiless hail was hissing round me , and I was sitting on soft turf in front of the overset machine . 
Everything still seemed grey , but presently I remarked that the confusion in my ears was gone . 
The rebounding , dancing hail hung in a cloud over the machine , and drove along the ground like smoke . 
In a moment I was wet to the skin . 
Fine hospitality , said I , to a man who has travelled innumerable years to see you . 
Presently I thought what a fool I was to get wet . 
I stood up and looked round me . 
A colossal figure , carved apparently in some white stone , loomed indistinctly beyond the rhododendrons through the hazy downpour . 
But all else of the world was invisible . 
My sensations would be hard to describe . 
As the columns of hail grew thinner , I saw the white figure more distinctly . 
It was very large , for a silver birch tree touched its shoulder . 
The pedestal , it appeared to me , was of bronze , and was thick with verdigris . 
It chanced that the face was towards me the sightless eyes seemed to watch me there was the faint shadow of a smile on the lips . 
It was greatly weather worn , and that imparted an unpleasant suggestion of disease . 
I stood looking at it for a little space half a minute , perhaps , or half an hour . 
It seemed to advance and to recede as the hail drove before it denser or thinner . 
At last I tore my eyes from it for a moment and saw that the hail curtain had worn threadbare , and that the sky was lightening with the promise of the Sun . 
I looked up again at the crouching white shape , and the full temerity of my voyage came suddenly upon me . 
Already I saw other vast shapes huge buildings with intricate parapets and tall columns , with a wooded hill side dimly creeping in upon me through the lessening storm . 
I was seized with a panic fear . 
I turned frantically to the Time Machine , and strove hard to readjust it . 
As I did so the shafts of the sun smote through the thunderstorm . 
The grey downpour was swept aside and vanished like the trailing garments of a ghost . 
Above me , in the intense blue of the summer sky , some faint brown shreds of cloud whirled into nothingness . 
The great buildings about me stood out clear and distinct , shining with the wet of the thunderstorm , and picked out in white by the unmelted hailstones piled along their courses . 
I felt naked in a strange world . 
I felt as perhaps a bird may feel in the clear air , knowing the hawk wings above and will swoop . 
My fear grew to frenzy . 
I took a breathing space , set my teeth , and again grappled fiercely , wrist and knee , with the machine . 
It gave under my desperate onset and turned over . 
It struck my chin violently . 
One hand on the saddle , the other on the lever , I stood panting heavily in attitude to mount again . 
But with this recovery of a prompt retreat my courage recovered . 
I looked more curiously and less fearfully at this world of the remote future . 
In a circular opening , high up in the wall of the nearer house , I saw a group of figures clad in rich soft robes . 
They had seen me , and their faces were directed towards me . 
Then I heard voices approaching me . 
Coming through the bushes by the White Sphinx were the heads and shoulders of men running . 
One of these emerged in a pathway leading straight to the little lawn upon which I stood with my machine . 
He was a slight creature perhaps four feet high clad in a purple tunic , girdled at the waist with a leather belt . 
Sandals or buskins I could not clearly distinguish which were on his feet his legs were bare to the knees , and his head was bare . 
Noticing that , I noticed for the first time how warm the air was . 
He struck me as being a very beautiful and graceful creature , but indescribably frail . 
His flushed face reminded me of the more beautiful kind of consumptive that hectic beauty of which we used to hear so much . 
At the sight of him I suddenly regained confidence . 
I took my hands from the machine . 
IV In another moment we were standing face to face , I and this fragile thing out of futurity . 
He came straight up to me and laughed into my eyes . 
The absence from his bearing of any sign of fear struck me at once . 
Then he turned to the two others who were following him and spoke to them in a strange and very sweet and liquid tongue . 
There were others coming , and presently a little group of perhaps eight or ten of these exquisite creatures were about me . 
One of them addressed me . 
It came into my head , oddly enough , that my voice was too harsh and deep for them . 
So I shook my head , and , pointing to my ears , shook it again . 
He came a step forward , hesitated , and then touched my hand . 
Then I felt other soft little tentacles upon my back and shoulders . 
They wanted to make sure I was real . 
There was nothing in this at all alarming . 
Indeed , there was something in these pretty little people that inspired confidence a graceful gentleness , a certain childlike ease . 
And besides , they looked so frail that I could fancy myself flinging the whole dozen of them about like nine pins . 
But I made a sudden motion to warn them when I saw their little pink hands feeling at the Time Machine . 
Then I turned again to see what I could do in the way of communication . 
And then , looking more nearly into their features , I saw some further peculiarities in their Dresden china type of prettiness . 
The mouths were small , with bright red , rather thin lips , and the little chins ran to a point . 
The eyes were large and mild and this may seem egotism on my part I fancied even that there was a certain lack of the interest I might have expected in them . 
As they made no effort to communicate with me , but simply stood round me smiling and speaking in soft cooing notes to each other , I began the conversation . 
I pointed to the Time Machine and to myself . 
Then hesitating for a moment how to express time , I pointed to the sun . 
At once a quaintly pretty little figure in chequered purple and white followed my gesture , and then astonished me by imitating the sound of thunder . 
For a moment I was staggered , though the import of his gesture was plain enough . 
The question had come into my mind abruptly were these creatures fools ? You may hardly understand how it took me . 
You see I had always anticipated that the people of the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand odd would be incredibly in front of us in knowledge , art , everything . 
A flow of disappointment rushed across my mind . 
For a moment I felt that I had built the Time Machine in vain . 
I nodded , pointed to the sun , and gave them such a vivid rendering of a thunderclap as startled them . 
They all withdrew a pace or so and bowed . 
Then came one laughing towards me , carrying a chain of beautiful flowers altogether new to me , and put it about my neck . 
The idea was received with melodious applause and presently they were all running to and fro for flowers , and laughingly flinging them upon me until I was almost smothered with blossom . 
You who have never seen the like can scarcely imagine what delicate and wonderful flowers countless years of culture had created . 
As I went with them the memory of my confident anticipations of a profoundly grave and intellectual posterity came , with irresistible merriment , to my mind . 
The building had a huge entry , and was altogether of colossal dimensions . 
I was naturally most occupied with the growing crowd of little people , and with the big open portals that yawned before me shadowy and mysterious . 
My general impression of the world I saw over their heads was a tangled waste of beautiful bushes and flowers , a long neglected and yet weedless garden . 
I saw a number of tall spikes of strange white flowers , measuring a foot perhaps across the spread of the waxen petals . 
They grew scattered , as if wild , among the variegated shrubs , but , as I say , I did not examine them closely at this time . 
The Time Machine was left deserted on the turf among the rhododendrons . 
The big doorway opened into a proportionately great hall hung with brown . 
The roof was in shadow , and the windows , partially glazed with coloured glass and partially unglazed , admitted a tempered light . 
Transverse to the length were innumerable tables made of slabs of polished stone , raised perhaps a foot from the floor , and upon these were heaps of fruits . 
Some I recognized as a kind of hypertrophied raspberry and orange , but for the most part they were strange . 
Between the tables was scattered a great number of cushions . 
Upon these my conductors seated themselves , signing for me to do likewise . 
I was not loath to follow their example , for I felt thirsty and hungry . 
As I did so I surveyed the hall at my leisure . 
And perhaps the thing that struck me most was its dilapidated look . 
The stained glass windows , which displayed only a geometrical pattern , were broken in many places , and the curtains that hung across the lower end were thick with dust . 
And it caught my eye that the corner of the marble table near me was fractured . 
Nevertheless , the general effect was extremely rich and picturesque . 
All were clad in the same soft and yet strong , silky material . 
Fruit , by the by , was all their diet . 
These people of the remote future were strict vegetarians , and while I was with them , in spite of some carnal cravings , I had to be frugivorous also . 
Indeed , I found afterwards that horses , cattle , sheep , dogs , had followed the Ichthyosaurus into extinction . 
At first I was puzzled by all these strange fruits , and by the strange flowers I saw , but later I began to perceive their import . 
However , I am telling you of my fruit dinner in the distant future now . 
So soon as my appetite was a little checked , I determined to make a resolute attempt to learn the speech of these new men of mine . 
Clearly that was the next thing to do . 
The fruits seemed a convenient thing to begin upon , and holding one of these up I began a series of interrogative sounds and gestures . 
I had some considerable difficulty in conveying my meaning . 
At first my efforts met with a stare of surprise or inextinguishable laughter , but presently a fair haired little creature seemed to grasp my intention and repeated a name . 
And very little doses I found they were before long , for I never met people more indolent or more easily fatigued . 
A queer thing I soon discovered about my little hosts , and that was their lack of interest . 
They would come to me with eager cries of astonishment , like children , but like children they would soon stop examining me and wander away after some other toy . 
The dinner and my conversational beginnings ended , I noted for the first time that almost all those who had surrounded me at first were gone . 
It is odd , too , how speedily I came to disregard these little people . 
I went out through the portal into the sunlit world again as soon as my hunger was satisfied . 
The calm of evening was upon the world as I emerged from the great hall , and the scene was lit by the warm glow of the setting sun . 
At first things were very confusing . 
Everything was so entirely different from the world I had known even the flowers . 
The big building I had left was situated on the slope of a broad river valley , but the Thames had shifted perhaps a mile from its present position . 
As I walked I was watching for every impression that could possibly help to explain the condition of ruinous splendour in which I found the world for ruinous it was . 
It was evidently the derelict remains of some vast structure , to what end built I could not determine . 
Looking round with a sudden thought , from a terrace on which I rested for a while , I realized that there were no small houses to be seen . 
Apparently the single house , and possibly even the household , had vanished . 
Here and there among the greenery were palace like buildings , but the house and the cottage , which form such characteristic features of our own English landscape , had disappeared . 
Communism , said I to myself . 
And on the heels of that came another thought . 
I looked at the half dozen little figures that were following me . 
Then , in a flash , I perceived that all had the same form of costume , the same soft hairless visage , and the same girlish rotundity of limb . 
It may seem strange , perhaps , that I had not noticed this before . 
But everything was so strange . 
Now , I saw the fact plainly enough . 
In costume , and in all the differences of texture and bearing that now mark off the sexes from each other , these people of the future were alike . 
And the children seemed to my eyes to be but the miniatures of their parents . 
I judged , then , that the children of that time were extremely precocious , physically at least , and I found afterwards abundant verification of my opinion . 
We see some beginnings of this even in our own time , and in this future age it was complete . 
This , I must remind you , was my speculation at the time . 
Later , I was to appreciate how far it fell short of the reality . 
While I was musing upon these things , my attention was attracted by a pretty little structure , like a well under a cupola . 
I thought in a transitory way of the oddness of wells still existing , and then resumed the thread of my speculations . 
There were no large buildings towards the top of the hill , and as my walking powers were evidently miraculous , I was presently left alone for the first time . 
With a strange sense of freedom and adventure I pushed on up to the crest . 
I sat down on it , and I surveyed the broad view of our old world under the sunset of that long day . 
It was as sweet and fair a view as I have ever seen . 
The sun had already gone below the horizon and the west was flaming gold , touched with some horizontal bars of purple and crimson . 
Below was the valley of the Thames , in which the river lay like a band of burnished steel . 
I have already spoken of the great palaces dotted about among the variegated greenery , some in ruins and some still occupied . 
Here and there rose a white or silvery figure in the waste garden of the earth , here and there came the sharp vertical line of some cupola or obelisk . 
There were no hedges , no signs of proprietary rights , no evidences of agriculture the whole earth had become a garden . 
So watching , I began to put my interpretation upon the things I had seen , and as it shaped itself to me that evening , my interpretation was something in this way . 
It seemed to me that I had happened upon humanity upon the wane . 
The ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind . 
For the first time I began to realize an odd consequence of the social effort in which we are at present engaged . 
And yet , come to think , it is a logical consequence enough . 
Strength is the outcome of need security sets a premium on feebleness . 
The work of ameliorating the conditions of life the true civilizing process that makes life more and more secure had gone steadily on to a climax . 
One triumph of a united humanity over Nature had followed another . 
Things that are now mere dreams had become projects deliberately put in hand and carried forward . 
And the harvest was what I saw ! After all , the sanitation and the agriculture of to day are still in the rudimentary stage . 
The science of our time has attacked but a little department of the field of human disease , but even so , it spreads its operations very steadily and persistently . 
We improve them gradually , because our ideals are vague and tentative , and our knowledge is very limited because Nature , too , is shy and slow in our clumsy hands . 
Some day all this will be better organized , and still better . 
That is the drift of the current in spite of the eddies . 
The whole world will be intelligent , educated , and co operating things will move faster and faster towards the subjugation of Nature . 
In the end , wisely and carefully we shall readjust the balance of animal and vegetable me to suit our human needs . 
This adjustment , I say , must have been done , and done well done indeed for all Time , in the space of Time across which my machine had leaped . 
The air was free from gnats , the earth from weeds or fungi everywhere were fruits and sweet and delightful flowers brilliant butterflies flew hither and thither . 
The ideal of preventive medicine was attained . 
Diseases had been stamped out . 
I saw no evidence of any contagious diseases during all my stay . 
And I shall have to tell you later that even the processes of putrefaction and decay had been profoundly affected by these changes . 
Social triumphs , too , had been effected . 
I saw mankind housed in splendid shelters , gloriously clothed , and as yet I had found them engaged in no toil . 
There were no signs of struggle , neither social nor economical struggle . 
The shop , the advertisement , traffic , all that commerce which constitutes the body of our world , was gone . 
It was natural on that golden evening that I should jump at the idea of a social paradise . 
The difficulty of increasing population had been met , I guessed , and population had ceased to increase . 
But with this change in condition comes inevitably adaptations to the change . 
I thought of the physical slightness of the people , their lack of intelligence , and those big abundant ruins , and it strengthened my belief in a perfect conquest of Nature . 
For after the battle comes Quiet . 
Humanity had been strong , energetic , and intelligent , and had used all its abundant vitality to alter the conditions under which it lived . 
And now came the reaction of the altered conditions . 
Under the new conditions of perfect comfort and security , that restless energy , that with us is strength , would become weakness . 
Even in our own time certain tendencies and desires , once necessary to survival , are a constant source of failure . 
Physical courage and the love of battle , for instance , are no great help may even be hindrances to a civilized man . 
And in a state of physical balance and security , power , intellectual as well as physical , would be out of place . 
For such a life , what we should call the weak are as well equipped as the strong , are indeed no longer weak . 
Better equipped indeed they are , for the strong would be fretted by an energy for which there was no outlet . 
This has ever been the fate of energy in security it takes to art and to eroticism , and then come languor and decay . 
Even this artistic impetus would at last die away had almost died in the Time I saw . 
To adorn themselves with flowers , to dance , to sing in the sunlight so much was left of the artistic spirit , and no more . 
Even that would fade in the end into a contented inactivity . 
Possibly the checks they had devised for the increase of population had succeeded too well , and their numbers had rather diminished than kept stationary . 
That would account for the abandoned ruins . 
The bright little figures ceased to move about below , a noiseless owl flitted by , and I shivered with the chill of the night . 
I determined to descend and find where I could sleep . 
I looked for the building I knew . 
Then my eye travelled along to the figure of the White Sphinx upon the pedestal of bronze , growing distinct as the light of the rising moon grew brighter . 
I could see the silver birch against it . 
There was the tangle of rhododendron bushes , black in the pale light , and there was the little lawn . 
I looked at the lawn again . 
A queer doubt chilled my complacency . 
No , said I stoutly to myself , that was not the lawn . 
But it WAS the lawn . 
For the white leprous face of the sphinx was towards it . 
Can you imagine what I felt as this conviction came home to me ? But you cannot . 
The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation . 
I could feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing . 
In another moment I was in a passion of fear and running with great leaping strides down the slope . 
Once I fell headlong and cut my face I lost no time in stanching the blood , but jumped up and ran on , with a warm trickle down my cheek and chin . 
All the time I ran I was saying to myself They have moved it a little , pushed it under the bushes out of the way . 
Nevertheless , I ran with all my might . 
All the time , with the certainty that sometimes comes with excessive dread , I knew that such assurance was folly , knew instinctively that the machine was removed out of my reach . 
My breath came with pain . 
I suppose I covered the whole distance from the hill crest to the little lawn , two miles perhaps , in ten minutes . 
And I am not a young man . 
I cursed aloud , as I ran , at my confident folly in leaving the machine , wasting good breath thereby . 
I cried aloud , and none answered . 
Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit world . 
When I reached the lawn my worst fears were realized . 
Not a trace of the thing was to be seen . 
I felt faint and cold when I faced the empty space among the black tangle of bushes . 
I ran round it furiously , as if the thing might be hidden in a corner , and then stopped abruptly , with my hands clutching my hair . 
Above me towered the sphinx , upon the bronze pedestal , white , shining , leprous , in the light of the rising moon . 
It seemed to smile in mockery of my dismay . 
I might have consoled myself by imagining the little people had put the mechanism in some shelter for me , had I not felt assured of their physical and intellectual inadequacy . 
That is what dismayed me the sense of some hitherto unsuspected power , through whose intervention my invention had vanished . 
Yet , for one thing I felt assured unless some other age had produced its exact duplicate , the machine could not have moved in time . 
The attachment of the levers I will show you the method later prevented any one from tampering with it in that way when they were removed . 
It had moved , and was hid , only in space . 
But then , where could it be ? I think I must have had a kind of frenzy . 
I remember , too , late that night , beating the bushes with my clenched fist until my knuckles were gashed and bleeding from the broken twigs . 
Then , sobbing and raving in my anguish of mind , I went down to the great building of stone . 
The big hall was dark , silent , and deserted . 
I slipped on the uneven floor , and fell over one of the malachite tables , almost breaking my shin . 
I lit a match and went on past the dusty curtains , of which I have told you . 
There I found a second great hall covered with cushions , upon which , perhaps , a score or so of the little people were sleeping . 
I have no doubt they found my second appearance strange enough , coming suddenly out of the quiet darkness with inarticulate noises and the splutter and flare of a match . 
For they had forgotten about matches . 
Where is my Time Machine ? I began , bawling like an angry child , laying hands upon them and shaking them up together . 
It must have been very queer to them . 
Some laughed , most of them looked sorely frightened . 
For , reasoning from their daylight behaviour , I thought that fear must be forgotten . 
Abruptly , I dashed down the match , and , knocking one of the people over in my course , went blundering across the big dining hall again , out under the moonlight . 
I heard cries of terror and their little feet running and stumbling this way and that . 
I do not remember all I did as the moon crept up the sky . 
I suppose it was the unexpected nature of my loss that maddened me . 
I felt hopelessly cut off from my own kind a strange animal in an unknown world . 
I must have raved to and fro , screaming and crying upon God and Fate . 
I had nothing left but misery . 
Then I slept , and when I woke again it was full day , and a couple of sparrows were hopping round me on the turf within reach of my arm . 
I sat up in the freshness of the morning , trying to remember how I had got there , and why I had such a profound sense of desertion and despair . 
Then things came clear in my mind . 
With the plain , reasonable daylight , I could look my circumstances fairly in the face . 
I saw the wild folly of my frenzy overnight , and I could reason with myself . 
Suppose the worst ? I said . 
That would be my only hope , perhaps , but better than despair . 
And , after all , it was a beautiful and curious world . 
But probably , the machine had only been taken away . 
Still , I must be calm and patient , find its hiding place , and recover it by force or cunning . 
And with that I scrambled to my feet and looked about me , wondering where I could bathe . 
I felt weary , stiff , and travel soiled . 
The freshness of the morning made me desire an equal freshness . 
I had exhausted my emotion . 
Indeed , as I went about my business , I found myself wondering at my intense excitement overnight . 
I made a careful examination of the ground about the little lawn . 
I wasted some time in futile questionings , conveyed , as well as I was able , to such of the little people as came by . 
They all failed to understand my gestures some were simply stolid , some thought it was a jest and laughed at me . 
I had the hardest task in the world to keep my hands off their pretty laughing faces . 
It was a foolish impulse , but the devil begotten of fear and blind anger was ill curbed and still eager to take advantage of my perplexity . 
The turf gave better counsel . 
There were other signs of removal about , with queer narrow footprints like those I could imagine made by a sloth . 
This directed my closer attention to the pedestal . 
It was , as I think I have said , of bronze . 
It was not a mere block , but highly decorated with deep framed panels on either side . 
I went and rapped at these . 
Examining the panels with care I found them discontinuous with the frames . 
There were no handles or keyholes , but possibly the panels , if they were doors , as I supposed , opened from within . 
One thing was clear enough to my mind . 
It took no very great mental effort to infer that my Time Machine was inside that pedestal . 
But how it got there was a different problem . 
I saw the heads of two orange clad people coming through the bushes and under some blossom covered apple trees towards me . 
I turned smiling to them and beckoned them to me . 
They came , and then , pointing to the bronze pedestal , I tried to intimate my wish to open it . 
But at my first gesture towards this they behaved very oddly . 
I don't know how to convey their expression to you . 
Suppose you were to use a grossly improper gesture to a delicate minded woman it is how she would look . 
They went off as if they had received the last possible insult . 
I tried a sweet looking little chap in white next , with exactly the same result . 
Somehow , his manner made me feel ashamed of myself . 
But , as you know , I wanted the Time Machine , and I tried him once more . 
As he turned off , like the others , my temper got the better of me . 
In three strides I was after him , had him by the loose part of his robe round the neck , and began dragging him towards the sphinx . 
Then I saw the horror and repugnance of his face , and all of a sudden I let him go . 
But I was not beaten yet . 
I banged with my fist at the bronze panels . 
I thought I heard something stir inside to be explicit , I thought I heard a sound like a chuckle but I must have been mistaken . 
Then I got a big pebble from the river , and came and hammered till I had flattened a coil in the decorations , and the verdigris came off in powdery flakes . 
The delicate little people must have heard me hammering in gusty outbreaks a mile away on either hand , but nothing came of it . 
I saw a crowd of them upon the slopes , looking furtively at me . 
At last , hot and tired , I sat down to watch the place . 
But I was too restless to watch long I am too Occidental for a long vigil . 
I could work at a problem for years , but to wait inactive for twenty four hours that is another matter . 
I got up after a time , and began walking aimlessly through the bushes towards the hill again . 
Patience , said I to myself . 
If you want your machine again you must leave that sphinx alone . 
To sit among all those unknown things before a puzzle like that is hopeless . 
Learn its ways , watch it , be careful of too hasty guesses at its meaning . 
In the end you will find clues to it all . 
I had made myself the most complicated and the most hopeless trap that ever a man devised . 
Although it was at my own expense , I could not help myself . 
Going through the big palace , it seemed to me that the little people avoided me . 
It may have been my fancy , or it may have had something to do with my hammering at the gates of bronze . 
Yet I felt tolerably sure of the avoidance . 
I made what progress I could in the language , and in addition I pushed my explorations here and there . 
Either I missed some subtle point or their language was excessively simple almost exclusively composed of concrete substantives and verbs . 
There seemed to be few , if any , abstract terms , or little use of figurative language . 
Their sentences were usually simple and of two words , and I failed to convey or understand any but the simplest propositions . 
Yet a certain feeling , you may understand , tethered me in a circle of a few miles round the point of my arrival . 
So far as I could see , all the world displayed the same exuberant richness as the Thames valley . 
Here and there water shone like silver , and beyond , the land rose into blue undulating hills , and so faded into the serenity of the sky . 
A peculiar feature , which presently attracted my attention , was the presence of certain circular wells , several , as it seemed to me , of a very great depth . 
One lay by the path up the hill , which I had followed during my first walk . 
Like the others , it was rimmed with bronze , curiously wrought , and protected by a little cupola from the rain . 
Further , I threw a scrap of paper into the throat of one , and , instead of fluttering slowly down , it was at once sucked swiftly out of sight . 
Putting things together , I reached a strong suggestion of an extensive system of subterranean ventilation , whose true import it was difficult to imagine . 
I was at first inclined to associate it with the sanitary apparatus of these people . 
It was an obvious conclusion , but it was absolutely wrong . 
And here I must admit that I learned very little of drains and bells and modes of conveyance , and the like conveniences , during my time in this real future . 
In some of these visions of Utopias and coming times which I have read , there is a vast amount of detail about building , and social arrangements , and so forth . 
In the matter of sepulchre , for instance , I could see no signs of crematoria nor anything suggestive of tombs . 
somewhere beyond the range of my explorings . 
This , again , was a question I deliberately put to myself , and my curiosity was at first entirely defeated upon the point . 
The thing puzzled me , and I was led to make a further remark , which puzzled me still more that aged and infirm among this people there were none . 
I must confess that my satisfaction with my first theories of an automatic civilization and a decadent humanity did not long endure . 
Yet I could think of no other . 
Let me put my difficulties . 
The several big palaces I had explored were mere living places , great dining halls and sleeping apartments . 
I could find no machinery , no appliances of any kind . 
Yet these people were clothed in pleasant fabrics that must at times need renewal , and their sandals , though undecorated , were fairly complex specimens of metalwork . 
Somehow such things must be made . 
And the little people displayed no vestige of a creative tendency . 
There were no shops , no workshops , no sign of importations among them . 
They spent all their time in playing gently , in bathing in the river , in making love in a half playful fashion , in eating fruit and sleeping . 
I could not see how things were kept going . 
Then , again , about the Time Machine something , I knew not what , had taken it into the hollow pedestal of the White Sphinx . 
Why ? For the life of me I could not imagine . 
Those waterless wells , too , those flickering pillars . 
I felt I lacked a clue . 
It happened that , as I was watching some of the little people bathing in a shallow , one of them was seized with cramp and began drifting downstream . 
The main current ran rather swiftly , but not too strongly for even a moderate swimmer . 
When I realized this , I hurriedly slipped off my clothes , and , wading in at a point lower down , I caught the poor mite and drew her safe to land . 
A little rubbing of the limbs soon brought her round , and I had the satisfaction of seeing she was all right before I left her . 
I had got to such a low estimate of her kind that I did not expect any gratitude from her . 
In that , however , I was wrong . 
This happened in the morning . 
The thing took my imagination . 
Very possibly I had been feeling desolate . 
At any rate I did my best to display my appreciation of the gift . 
We were soon seated together in a little stone arbour , engaged in conversation , chiefly of smiles . 
The creature's friendliness affected me exactly as a child's might have done . 
We passed each other flowers , and she kissed my hands . 
I did the same to hers . 
Then I tried talk , and found that her name was Weena , which , though I don't know what it meant , somehow seemed appropriate enough . 
That was the beginning of a queer friendship which lasted a week , and ended as I will tell you ! She was exactly like a child . 
She wanted to be with me always . 
But the problems of the world had to be mastered . 
I had not , I said to myself , come into the future to carry on a miniature flirtation . 
Nevertheless she was , somehow , a very great comfort . 
I thought it was mere childish affection that made her cling to me . 
Until it was too late , I did not clearly know what I had inflicted upon her when I left her . 
Nor until it was too late did I clearly understand what she was to me . 
It was from her , too , that I learned that fear had not yet left the world . 
But she dreaded the dark , dreaded shadows , dreaded black things . 
Darkness to her was the one thing dreadful . 
It was a singularly passionate emotion , and it set me thinking and observing . 
I discovered then , among other things , that these little people gathered into the great houses after dark , and slept in droves . 
To enter upon them without a light was to put them into a tumult of apprehension . 
I never found one out of doors , or one sleeping alone within doors , after dark . 
Yet I was still such a blockhead that I missed the lesson of that fear , and in spite of Weena's distress I insisted upon sleeping away from these slumbering multitudes . 
But my story slips away from me as I speak of her . 
It must have been the night before her rescue that I was awakened about dawn . 
I had been restless , dreaming most disagreeably that I was drowned , and that sea anemones were feeling over my face with their soft palps . 
I woke with a start , and with an odd fancy that some greyish animal had just rushed out of the chamber . 
I tried to get to sleep again , but I felt restless and uncomfortable . 
It was that dim grey hour when things are just creeping out of darkness , when everything is colourless and clear cut , and yet unreal . 
I got up , and went down into the great hall , and so out upon the flagstones in front of the palace . 
I thought I would make a virtue of necessity , and see the sunrise . 
The moon was setting , and the dying moonlight and the first pallor of dawn were mingled in a ghastly half light . 
The bushes were inky black , the ground a sombre grey , the sky colourless and cheerless . 
And up the hill I thought I could see ghosts . 
There several times , as I scanned the slope , I saw white figures . 
I did not see what became of them . 
It seemed that they vanished among the bushes . 
The dawn was still indistinct , you must understand . 
I was feeling that chill , uncertain , early morning feeling you may have known . 
As the eastern sky grew brighter , and the light of the day came on and its vivid colouring returned upon the world once more , I scanned the view keenly . 
But I saw no vestige of my white figures . 
They were mere creatures of the half light . 
They must have been ghosts , I said I wonder whence they dated . 
For a queer notion of Grant Allen's came into my head , and amused me . 
If each generation die and leave ghosts , he argued , the world at last will get overcrowded with them . 
On that theory they would have grown innumerable some Eight Hundred Thousand Years hence , and it was no great wonder to see four at once . 
But the jest was unsatisfying , and I was thinking of these figures all the morning , until Weena's rescue drove them out of my head . 
I associated them in some indefinite way with the white animal I had startled in my first passionate search for the Time Machine . 
But Weena was a pleasant substitute . 
Yet all the same , they were soon destined to take far deadlier possession of my mind . 
I think I have said how much hotter than our own was the weather of this Golden Age . 
I cannot account for it . 
It may be that the sun was hotter , or the earth nearer the sun . 
It is usual to assume that the sun will go on cooling steadily in the future . 
But people , unfamiliar with such speculations as those of the younger Darwin , forget that the planets must ultimately fall back one by one into the parent body . 
As these catastrophes occur , the sun will blaze with renewed energy and it may be that some inner planet had suffered this fate . 
Whatever the reason , the fact remains that the sun was very much hotter than we know it . 
By contrast with the brilliancy outside , it seemed at first impenetrably dark to me . 
I entered it groping , for the change from light to blackness made spots of colour swim before me . 
A pair of eyes , luminous by reflection against the daylight without , was watching me out of the darkness . 
The old instinctive dread of wild beasts came upon me . 
I clenched my hands and steadfastly looked into the glaring eyeballs . 
I was afraid to turn . 
Then the thought of the absolute security in which humanity appeared to be living came to my mind . 
And then I remembered that strange terror of the dark . 
Overcoming my fear to some extent , I advanced a step and spoke . 
I will admit that my voice was harsh and ill controlled . 
I put out my hand and touched something soft . 
At once the eyes darted sideways , and something white ran past me . 
It blundered against a block of granite , staggered aside , and in a moment was hidden in a black shadow beneath another pile of ruined masonry . 
But , as I say , it went too fast for me to see distinctly . 
I cannot even say whether it ran on all fours , or only with its forearms held very low . 
After an instant's pause I followed it into the second heap of ruins . 
A sudden thought came to me . 
Then the light burned my fingers and fell out of my hand , going out as it dropped , and when I had lit another the little monster had disappeared . 
I do not know how long I sat peering down that well . 
It was not for some time that I could succeed in persuading myself that the thing I had seen was human . 
I thought of the flickering pillars and of my theory of an underground ventilation . 
I began to suspect their true import . 
And withal I was absolutely afraid to go ! As I hesitated , two of the beautiful Upper world people came running in their amorous sport across the daylight in the shadow . 
The male pursued the female , flinging flowers at her as he ran . 
They seemed distressed to find me , my arm against the overturned pillar , peering down the well . 
But they were interested by my matches , and I struck some to amuse them . 
I tried them again about the well , and again I failed . 
So presently I left them , meaning to go back to Weena , and see what I could get from her . 
But my mind was already in revolution my guesses and impressions were slipping and sliding to a new adjustment . 
Here was the new view . 
Plainly , this second species of Man was subterranean . 
There were three circumstances in particular which made me think that its rare emergence above ground was the outcome of a long continued underground habit . 
In the first place , there was the bleached look common in most animals that live largely in the dark the white fish of the Kentucky caves , for instance . 
Then , those large eyes , with that capacity for reflecting light , are common features of nocturnal things witness the owl and the cat . 
Beneath my feet , then , the earth must be tunnelled enormously , and these tunnellings were the habitat of the new race . 
The presence of ventilating shafts and wells along the hill slopes everywhere , in fact except along the river valley showed how universal were its ramifications . 
I dare say you will anticipate the shape of my theory though , for myself , I very soon felt that it fell far short of the truth . 
No doubt it will seem grotesque enough to you and wildly incredible ! and yet even now there are existing circumstances to point that way . 
Evidently , I thought , this tendency had increased till Industry had gradually lost its birthright in the sky . 
About London , for instance , perhaps half the prettier country is shut in against intrusion . 
As it seemed to me , the refined beauty and the etiolated pallor followed naturally enough . 
The great triumph of Humanity I had dreamed of took a different shape in my mind . 
It had been no such triumph of moral education and general co operation as I had imagined . 
Instead , I saw a real aristocracy , armed with a perfected science and working to a logical conclusion the industrial system of to day . 
Its triumph had not been simply a triumph over Nature , but a triumph over Nature and the fellow man . 
This , I must warn you , was my theory at the time . 
I had no convenient cicerone in the pattern of the Utopian books . 
My explanation may be absolutely wrong . 
I still think it is the most plausible one . 
But even on this supposition the balanced civilization that was at last attained must have long since passed its zenith , and was now far fallen into decay . 
The too perfect security of the Upper worlders had led them to a slow movement of degeneration , to a general dwindling in size , strength , and intelligence . 
That I could see clearly enough already . 
Why had the Morlocks taken my Time Machine ? For I felt sure it was they who had taken it . 
At first she would not understand my questions , and presently she refused to answer them . 
She shivered as though the topic was unendurable . 
And when I pressed her , perhaps a little harshly , she burst into tears . 
They were the only tears , except my own , I ever saw in that Golden Age . 
When I saw them I ceased abruptly to trouble about the Morlocks , and was only concerned in banishing these signs of the human inheritance from Weena's eyes . 
And very soon she was smiling and clapping her hands , while I solemnly burned a match . 
VI It may seem odd to you , but it was two days before I could follow up the new found clue in what was manifestly the proper way . 
I felt a peculiar shrinking from those pallid bodies . 
They were just the half bleached colour of the worms and things one sees preserved in spirit in a zoological museum . 
And they were filthily cold to the touch . 
Probably my shrinking was largely due to the sympathetic influence of the Eloi , whose disgust of the Morlocks I now began to appreciate . 
The next night I did not sleep well . 
Probably my health was a little disordered . 
I was oppressed with perplexity and doubt . 
Once or twice I had a feeling of intense fear for which I could perceive no definite reason . 
I remember creeping noiselessly into the great hall where the little people were sleeping in the moonlight that night Weena was among them and feeling reassured by their presence . 
And on both these days I had the restless feeling of one who shirks an inevitable duty . 
I felt assured that the Time Machine was only to be recovered by boldly penetrating these underground mysteries . 
Yet I could not face the mystery . 
If only I had had a companion it would have been different . 
But I was so horribly alone , and even to clamber down into the darkness of the well appalled me . 
I don't know if you will understand my feeling , but I never felt quite safe at my back . 
It was this restlessness , this insecurity , perhaps , that drove me further and further afield in my exploring expeditions . 
This difference in aspect suggested a difference in use , and I was minded to push on and explore . 
I resolved I would make the descent without further waste of time , and started out in the early morning towards a well near the ruins of granite and aluminium . 
Little Weena ran with me . 
She danced beside me to the well , but when she saw me lean over the mouth and look downward , she seemed strangely disconcerted . 
Good bye , Little Weena , I said , kissing her and then putting her down , I began to feel over the parapet for the climbing hooks . 
Rather hastily , I may as well confess , for I feared my courage might leak away ! At first she watched me in amazement . 
Then she gave a most piteous cry , and running to me , she began to pull at me with her little hands . 
I think her opposition nerved me rather to proceed . 
I shook her off , perhaps a little roughly , and in another moment I was in the throat of the well . 
I saw her agonized face over the parapet , and smiled to reassure her . 
Then I had to look down at the unstable hooks to which I clung . 
I had to clamber down a shaft of perhaps two hundred yards . 
And not simply fatigued ! One of the bars bent suddenly under my weight , and almost swung me off into the blackness beneath . 
For a moment I hung by one hand , and after that experience I did not dare to rest again . 
Though my arms and back were presently acutely painful , I went on clambering down the sheer descent with as quick a motion as possible . 
Glancing upward , I saw the aperture , a small blue disk , in which a star was visible , while little Weena's head showed as a round black projection . 
The thudding sound of a machine below grew louder and more oppressive . 
Everything save that little disk above was profoundly dark , and when I looked up again Weena had disappeared . 
I was in an agony of discomfort . 
I had some thought of trying to go up the shaft again , and leave the Under world alone . 
But even while I turned this over in my mind I continued to descend . 
At last , with intense relief , I saw dimly coming up , a foot to the right of me , a slender loophole in the wall . 
Swinging myself in , I found it was the aperture of a narrow horizontal tunnel in which I could lie down and rest . 
It was not too soon . 
My arms ached , my back was cramped , and I was trembling with the prolonged terror of a fall . 
Besides this , the unbroken darkness had had a distressing effect upon my eyes . 
The air was full of the throb and hum of machinery pumping air down the shaft . 
I do not know how long I lay . 
I was roused by a soft hand touching my face . 
I have no doubt they could see me in that rayless obscurity , and they did not seem to have any fear of me apart from the light . 
But I said to myself , You are in for it now , and , feeling my way along the tunnel , I found the noise of machinery grow louder . 
The view I had of it was as much as one could see in the burning of a match . 
Necessarily my memory is vague . 
Great shapes like big machines rose out of the dimness , and cast grotesque black shadows , in which dim spectral Morlocks sheltered from the glare . 
The place , by the by , was very stuffy and oppressive , and the faint halitus of freshly shed blood was in the air . 
Some way down the central vista was a little table of white metal , laid with what seemed a meal . 
The Morlocks at any rate were carnivorous ! Even at the time , I remember wondering what large animal could have survived to furnish the red joint I saw . 
I have thought since how particularly ill equipped I was for such an experience . 
When I had started with the Time Machine , I had started with the absurd assumption that the men of the Future would certainly be infinitely ahead of ourselves in all their appliances . 
I had come without arms , without medicine , without anything to smoke at times I missed tobacco frightfully even without enough matches . 
If only I had thought of a Kodak ! I could have flashed that glimpse of the Underworld in a second , and examined it at leisure . 
I fancied I heard the breathing of a crowd of those dreadful little beings about me . 
I felt the box of matches in my hand being gently disengaged , and other hands behind me plucking at my clothing . 
The sense of these unseen creatures examining me was indescribably unpleasant . 
The sudden realization of my ignorance of their ways of thinking and doing came home to me very vividly in the darkness . 
I shouted at them as loudly as I could . 
They started away , and then I could feel them approaching me again . 
They clutched at me more boldly , whispering odd sounds to each other . 
I shivered violently , and shouted again rather discordantly . 
This time they were not so seriously alarmed , and they made a queer laughing noise as they came back at me . 
I will confess I was horribly frightened . 
I determined to strike another match and escape under the protection of its glare . 
I did so , and eking out the flicker with a scrap of paper from my pocket , I made good my retreat to the narrow tunnel . 
In a moment I was clutched by several hands , and there was no mistaking that they were trying to haul me back . 
I struck another light , and waved it in their dazzled faces . 
You can scarce imagine how nauseatingly inhuman they looked those pale , chinless faces and great , lidless , pinkish grey eyes ! as they stared in their blindness and bewilderment . 
But I did not stay to look , I promise you I retreated again , and when my second match had ended , I struck my third . 
It had almost burned through when I reached the opening into the shaft . 
I lay down on the edge , for the throb of the great pump below made me giddy . 
Then I felt sideways for the projecting hooks , and , as I did so , my feet were grasped from behind , and I was violently tugged backward . 
I lit my last match . 
and it incontinently went out . 
That climb seemed interminable to me . 
With the last twenty or thirty feet of it a deadly nausea came upon me . 
I had the greatest difficulty in keeping my hold . 
The last few yards was a frightful struggle against this faintness . 
Several times my head swam , and I felt all the sensations of falling . 
At last , however , I got over the well mouth somehow , and staggered out of the ruin into the blinding sunlight . 
I fell upon my face . 
Even the soil smelt sweet and clean . 
Then I remember Weena kissing my hands and ears , and the voices of others among the Eloi . 
Then , for a time , I was insensible . 
VII Now , indeed , I seemed in a worse case than before . 
Before , I had felt as a man might feel who had fallen into a pit my concern was with the pit and how to get out of it . 
Now I felt like a beast in a trap , whose enemy would come upon him soon . 
The enemy I dreaded may surprise you . 
It was the darkness of the new moon . 
Weena had put this into my head by some at first incomprehensible remarks about the Dark Nights . 
It was not now such a very difficult problem to guess what the coming Dark Nights might mean . 
The moon was on the wane each night there was a longer interval of darkness . 
And I now understood to some slight degree at least the reason of the fear of the little Upper world people for the dark . 
I wondered vaguely what foul villainy it might be that the Morlocks did under the new moon . 
I felt pretty sure now that my second hypothesis was all wrong . 
The Upper world people might once have been the favoured aristocracy , and the Morlocks their mechanical servants but that had long since passed away . 
The two species that had resulted from the evolution of man were sliding down towards , or had already arrived at , an altogether new relationship . 
The Eloi , like the Carolingian kings , had decayed to a mere beautiful futility . 
They still possessed the earth on sufferance since the Morlocks , subterranean for innumerable generations , had come at last to find the daylit surface intolerable . 
And the Morlocks made their garments , I inferred , and maintained them in their habitual needs , perhaps through the survival of an old habit of service . 
They did it as a standing horse paws with his foot , or as a man enjoys killing animals in sport because ancient and departed necessities had impressed it on the organism . 
But , clearly , the old order was already in part reversed . 
The Nemesis of the delicate ones was creeping on apace . 
Ages ago , thousands of generations ago , man had thrust his brother man out of the ease and the sunshine . 
And now that brother was coming back changed ! Already the Eloi had begun to learn one old lesson anew . 
They were becoming reacquainted with Fear . 
And suddenly there came into my head the memory of the meat I had seen in the Under world . 
It seemed odd how it floated into my mind not stirred up as it were by the current of my meditations , but coming in almost like a question from outside . 
I tried to recall the form of it . 
I had a vague sense of something familiar , but I could not tell what it was at the time . 
Still , however helpless the little people in the presence of their mysterious Fear , I was differently constituted . 
I came out of this age of ours , this ripe prime of the human race , when Fear does not paralyse and mystery has lost its terrors . 
I at least would defend myself . 
Without further delay I determined to make myself arms and a fastness where I might sleep . 
With that refuge as a base , I could face this strange world with some of that confidence I had lost in realizing to what creatures night by night I lay exposed . 
I felt I could never sleep again until my bed was secure from them . 
I shuddered with horror to think how they must already have examined me . 
I wandered during the afternoon along the valley of the Thames , but found nothing that commended itself to my mind as inaccessible . 
All the buildings and trees seemed easily practicable to such dexterous climbers as the Morlocks , to judge by their wells , must be . 
The distance , I had reckoned , was seven or eight miles , but it must have been nearer eighteen . 
I had first seen the place on a moist afternoon when distances are deceptively diminished . 
And it was already long past sunset when I came in sight of the palace , silhouetted black against the pale yellow of the sky . 
My pockets had always puzzled Weena , but at the last she had concluded that they were an eccentric kind of vase for floral decoration . 
At least she utilized them for that purpose . 
And that reminds me ! In changing my jacket I found . 
The Time Traveller paused , put his hand into his pocket , and silently placed two withered flowers , not unlike very large white mallows , upon the little table . 
Then he resumed his narrative . 
As the hush of evening crept over the world and we proceeded over the hill crest towards Wimbledon , Weena grew tired and wanted to return to the house of grey stone . 
But I pointed out the distant pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain to her , and contrived to make her understand that we were seeking a refuge there from her Fear . 
You know that great pause that comes upon things before the dusk ? Even the breeze stops in the trees . 
To me there is always an air of expectation about that evening stillness . 
The sky was clear , remote , and empty save for a few horizontal bars far down in the sunset . 
Well , that night the expectation took the colour of my fears . 
In that darkling calm my senses seemed preternaturally sharpened . 
In my excitement I fancied that they would receive my invasion of their burrows as a declaration of war . 
And why had they taken my Time Machine ? So we went on in the quiet , and the twilight deepened into night . 
The clear blue of the distance faded , and one star after another came out . 
The ground grew dim and the trees black . 
Weena's fears and her fatigue grew upon her . 
I took her in my arms and talked to her and caressed her . 
Then , as the darkness grew deeper , she put her arms round my neck , and , closing her eyes , tightly pressed her face against my shoulder . 
So we went down a long slope into a valley , and there in the dimness I almost walked into a little river . 
So far I had seen nothing of the Morlocks , but it was yet early in the night , and the darker hours before the old moon rose were still to come . 
From the brow of the next hill I saw a thick wood spreading wide and black before me . 
I could see no end to it , either to the right or the left . 
Feeling tired my feet , in particular , were very sore I carefully lowered Weena from my shoulder as I halted , and sat down upon the turf . 
I could no longer see the Palace of Green Porcelain , and I was in doubt of my direction . 
I looked into the thickness of the wood and thought of what it might hide . 
Under that dense tangle of branches one would be out of sight of the stars . 
I was very tired , too , after the excitements of the day so I decided that I would not face it , but would pass the night upon the open hill . 
Weena , I was glad to find , was fast asleep . 
I carefully wrapped her in my jacket , and sat down beside her to wait for the moonrise . 
The hill side was quiet and deserted , but from the black of the wood there came now and then a stir of living things . 
Above me shone the stars , for the night was very clear . 
I felt a certain sense of friendly comfort in their twinkling . 
All the old constellations had gone from the sky , however that slow movement which is imperceptible in a hundred human lifetimes , had long since rearranged them in unfamiliar groupings . 
But the Milky Way , it seemed to me , was still the same tattered streamer of star dust as of yore . 
was a very bright red star that was new to me it was even more splendid than our own green Sirius . 
And amid all these scintillating points of light one bright planet shone kindly and steadily like the face of an old friend . 
Looking at these stars suddenly dwarfed my own troubles and all the gravities of terrestrial life . 
I thought of their unfathomable distance , and the slow inevitable drift of their movements out of the unknown past into the unknown future . 
I thought of the great precessional cycle that the pole of the earth describes . 
Only forty times had that silent revolution occurred during all the years that I had traversed . 
Instead were these frail creatures who had forgotten their high ancestry , and the white Things of which I went in terror . 
Yet it was too horrible ! I looked at little Weena sleeping beside me , her face white and starlike under the stars , and forthwith dismissed the thought . 
The sky kept very clear , except for a hazy cloud or so . 
No doubt I dozed at times . 
And close behind , and overtaking it , and overflowing it , the dawn came , pale at first , and then growing pink and warm . 
No Morlocks had approached us . 
Indeed , I had seen none upon the hill that night . 
And in the confidence of renewed day it almost seemed to me that my fear had been unreasonable . 
I awakened Weena , and we went down into the wood , now green and pleasant instead of black and forbidding . 
We found some fruit wherewith to break our fast . 
We soon met others of the dainty ones , laughing and dancing in the sunlight as though there was no such thing in nature as the night . 
And then I thought once more of the meat that I had seen . 
I felt assured now of what it was , and from the bottom of my heart I pitied this last feeble rill from the great flood of humanity . 
Clearly , at some time in the Long Ago of human decay the Morlocks' food had run short . 
Possibly they had lived on rats and such like vermin . 
Even now man is far less discriminating and exclusive in his food than he was far less than any monkey . 
His prejudice against human flesh is no deep seated instinct . 
And so these inhuman sons of men ! I tried to look at the thing in a scientific spirit . 
After all , they were less human and more remote than our cannibal ancestors of three or four thousand years ago . 
And the intelligence that would have made this state of things a torment had gone . 
Why should I trouble myself ? These Eloi were mere fatted cattle , which the ant like Morlocks preserved and preyed upon probably saw to the breeding of . 
I even tried a Carlyle like scorn of this wretched aristocracy in decay . 
But this attitude of mind was impossible . 
I had at that time very vague ideas as to the course I should pursue . 
My first was to secure some safe place of refuge , and to make myself such arms of metal or stone as I could contrive . 
Then I wanted to arrange some contrivance to break open the doors of bronze under the White Sphinx . 
I had in mind a battering ram . 
I had a persuasion that if I could enter those doors and carry a blaze of light before me I should discover the Time Machine and escape . 
I could not imagine the Morlocks were strong enough to move it far away . 
Weena I had resolved to bring with me to our own time . 
And turning such schemes over in my mind I pursued our way towards the building which my fancy had chosen as our dwelling . 
VIII I found the Palace of Green Porcelain , when we approached it about noon , deserted and falling into ruin . 
Only ragged vestiges of glass remained in its windows , and great sheets of the green facing had fallen away from the corroded metallic framework . 
I thought then though I never followed up the thought of what might have happened , or might be happening , to the living things in the sea . 
The material of the Palace proved on examination to be indeed porcelain , and along the face of it I saw an inscription in some unknown character . 
I thought , rather foolishly , that Weena might help me to interpret this , but I only learned that the bare idea of writing had never entered her head . 
She always seemed to me , I fancy , more human than she was , perhaps because her affection was so human . 
Within the big valves of the door which were open and broken we found , instead of the customary hall , a long gallery lit by many side windows . 
At the first glance I was reminded of a museum . 
The tiled floor was thick with dust , and a remarkable array of miscellaneous objects was shrouded in the same grey covering . 
Then I perceived , standing strange and gaunt in the centre of the hall , what was clearly the lower part of a huge skeleton . 
I recognized by the oblique feet that it was some extinct creature after the fashion of the Megatherium . 
Further in the gallery was the huge skeleton barrel of a Brontosaurus . 
My museum hypothesis was confirmed . 
Going towards the side I found what appeared to be sloping shelves , and clearing away the thick dust , I found the old familiar glass cases of our own time . 
But they must have been air tight to judge from the fair preservation of some of their contents . 
Here and there I found traces of the little people in the shape of rare fossils broken to pieces or threaded in strings upon reeds . 
And the cases had in some instances been bodily removed by the Morlocks as I judged . 
The place was very silent . 
The thick dust deadened our footsteps . 
And at first I was so much surprised by this ancient monument of an intellectual age , that I gave no thought to the possibilities it presented . 
Even my preoccupation about the Time Machine receded a little from my mind . 
Exploring , I found another short gallery running transversely to the first . 
This appeared to be devoted to minerals , and the sight of a block of sulphur set my mind running on gunpowder . 
But I could find no saltpeter indeed , no nitrates of any kind . 
Doubtless they had deliquesced ages ago . 
Yet the sulphur hung in my mind , and set up a train of thinking . 
As for the rest of the contents of that gallery , though on the whole they were the best preserved of all I saw , I had little interest . 
I am no specialist in mineralogy , and I went on down a very ruinous aisle running parallel to the first hall I had entered . 
Apparently this section had been devoted to natural history , but everything had long since passed out of recognition . 
Then we came to a gallery of simply colossal proportions , but singularly ill lit , the floor of it running downward at a slight angle from the end at which I entered . 
At intervals white globes hung from the ceiling many of them cracked and smashed which suggested that originally the place had been artificially lit . 
I fancied that if I could solve their puzzles I should find myself in possession of powers that might be of use against the Morlocks . 
Suddenly Weena came very close to my side . 
So suddenly that she startled me . 
Had it not been for her I do not think I should have noticed that the floor of the gallery sloped at all . 
It may be , of course , that the floor did not slope , but that the museum was built into the side of a hill . 
The end I had come in at was quite above ground , and was lit by rare slit like windows . 
I went slowly along , puzzling about the machines , and had been too intent upon them to notice the gradual diminution of the light , until Weena's increasing apprehensions drew my attention . 
Then I saw that the gallery ran down at last into a thick darkness . 
I hesitated , and then , as I looked round me , I saw that the dust was less abundant and its surface less even . 
Further away towards the dimness , it appeared to be broken by a number of small narrow footprints . 
My sense of the immediate presence of the Morlocks revived at that . 
I felt that I was wasting my time in the academic examination of machinery . 
I called to mind that it was already far advanced in the afternoon , and that I had still no weapon , no refuge , and no means of making a fire . 
And then down in the remote blackness of the gallery I heard a peculiar pattering , and the same odd noises I had heard down the well . 
Then , struck with a sudden idea , I left her and turned to a machine from which projected a lever not unlike those in a signal box . 
Clambering upon the stand , and grasping this lever in my hands , I put all my weight upon it sideways . 
Suddenly Weena , deserted in the central aisle , began to whimper . 
And I longed very much to kill a Morlock or so . 
Very inhuman , you may think , to want to go killing one's own descendants ! But it was impossible , somehow , to feel any humanity in the things . 
The brown and charred rags that hung from the sides of it , I presently recognized as the decaying vestiges of books . 
They had long since dropped to pieces , and every semblance of print had left them . 
But here and there were warped boards and cracked metallic clasps that told the tale well enough . 
Had I been a literary man I might , perhaps , have moralized upon the futility of all ambition . 
But as it was , the thing that struck me with keenest force was the enormous waste of labour to which this sombre wilderness of rotting paper testified . 
At the time I will confess that I thought chiefly of the PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS and my own seventeen papers upon physical optics . 
Then , going up a broad staircase , we came to what may once have been a gallery of technical chemistry . 
And here I had not a little hope of useful discoveries . 
Except at one end where the roof had collapsed , this gallery was well preserved . 
I went eagerly to every unbroken case . 
And at last , in one of the really air tight cases , I found a box of matches . 
Very eagerly I tried them . 
They were not even damp . 
Dance , I cried to her in her own tongue . 
For now I had a weapon indeed against the horrible creatures we feared . 
, and in part original . 
For I am naturally inventive , as you know . 
Yet , oddly enough , I found a far unlikelier substance , and that was camphor . 
I found it in a sealed jar , that by chance , I suppose , had been really hermetically sealed . 
I fancied at first that it was paraffin wax , and smashed the glass accordingly . 
But the odour of camphor was unmistakable . 
In the universal decay this volatile substance had chanced to survive , perhaps through many thousands of centuries . 
It reminded me of a sepia painting I had once seen done from the ink of a fossil Belemnite that must have perished and become fossilized millions of years ago . 
I found no explosives , however , nor any means of breaking down the bronze doors . 
As yet my iron crowbar was the most helpful thing I had chanced upon . 
Nevertheless I left that gallery greatly elated . 
I cannot tell you all the story of that long afternoon . 
It would require a great effort of memory to recall my explorations in at all the proper order . 
I remember a long gallery of rusting stands of arms , and how I hesitated between my crowbar and a hatchet or a sword . 
I could not carry both , however , and my bar of iron promised best against the bronze gates . 
There were numbers of guns , pistols , and rifles . 
The most were masses of rust , but many were of some new metal , and still fairly sound . 
But any cartridges or powder there may once have been had rotted into dust . 
One corner I saw was charred and shattered perhaps , I thought , by an explosion among the specimens . 
In another place was a vast array of idols Polynesian , Mexican , Grecian , Phoenician , every country on earth I should think . 
And here , yielding to an irresistible impulse , I wrote my name upon the nose of a steatite monster from South America that particularly took my fancy . 
As the evening drew on , my interest waned . 
I went through gallery after gallery , dusty , silent , often ruinous , the exhibits sometimes mere heaps of rust and lignite , sometimes fresher . 
Then , selecting a little side gallery , I made my essay . 
I never felt such a disappointment as I did in waiting five , ten , fifteen minutes for an explosion that never came . 
Of course the things were dummies , as I might have guessed from their presence . 
my chances of finding the Time Machine , all together into nonexistence . 
It was after that , I think , that we came to a little open court within the palace . 
It was turfed , and had three fruit trees . 
So we rested and refreshed ourselves . 
Towards sunset I began to consider our position . 
Night was creeping upon us , and my inaccessible hiding place had still to be found . 
But that troubled me very little now . 
It seemed to me that the best thing we could do would be to pass the night in the open , protected by a fire . 
In the morning there was the getting of the Time Machine . 
Towards that , as yet , I had only my iron mace . 
But now , with my growing knowledge , I felt very differently towards those bronze doors . 
Up to this , I had refrained from forcing them , largely because of the mystery on the other side . 
They had never impressed me as being very strong , and I hoped to find my bar of iron not altogether inadequate for the work . 
IX We emerged from the palace while the sun was still in part above the horizon . 
I was determined to reach the White Sphinx early the next morning , and ere the dusk I purposed pushing through the woods that had stopped me on the previous journey . 
My plan was to go as far as possible that night , and then , building a fire , to sleep in the protection of its glare . 
Accordingly , as we went along I gathered any sticks or dried grass I saw , and presently had my arms full of such litter . 
Thus loaded , our progress was slower than I had anticipated , and besides Weena was tired . 
And I began to suffer from sleepiness too so that it was full night before we reached the wood . 
I had been without sleep for a night and two days , and I was feverish and irritable . 
I felt sleep coming upon me , and the Morlocks with it . 
While we hesitated , among the black bushes behind us , and dim against their blackness , I saw three crouching figures . 
There was scrub and long grass all about us , and I did not feel safe from their insidious approach . 
The forest , I calculated , was rather less than a mile across . 
Yet it was evident that if I was to flourish matches with my hands I should have to abandon my firewood so , rather reluctantly , I put it down . 
And then it came into my head that I would amaze our friends behind by lighting it . 
I was to discover the atrocious folly of this proceeding , but it came to my mind as an ingenious move for covering our retreat . 
I don't know if you have ever thought what a rare thing flame must be in the absence of man and in a temperate climate . 
The sun's heat is rarely strong enough to burn , even when it is focused by dewdrops , as is sometimes the case in more tropical districts . 
Lightning may blast and blacken , but it rarely gives rise to widespread fire . 
Decaying vegetation may occasionally smoulder with the heat of its fermentation , but this rarely results in flame . 
In this decadence , too , the art of fire making had been forgotten on the earth . 
The red tongues that went licking up my heap of wood were an altogether new and strange thing to Weena . 
She wanted to run to it and play with it . 
I believe she would have cast herself into it had I not restrained her . 
But I caught her up , and in spite of her struggles , plunged boldly before me into the wood . 
For a little way the glare of my fire lit the path . 
I laughed at that , and turned again to the dark trees before me . 
Overhead it was simply black , except where a gap of remote blue sky shone down upon us here and there . 
I struck none of my matches because I had no hand free . 
Upon my left arm I carried my little one , in my right hand I had my iron bar . 
Then I seemed to know of a pattering about me . 
The pattering grew more distinct , and then I caught the same queer sound and voices I had heard in the Under world . 
There were evidently several of the Morlocks , and they were closing in upon me . 
Indeed , in another minute I felt a tug at my coat , then something at my arm . 
And Weena shivered violently , and became quite still . 
It was time for a match . 
But to get one I must put her down . 
Soft little hands , too , were creeping over my coat and back , touching even my neck . 
Then the match scratched and fizzed . 
I held it flaring , and saw the white backs of the Morlocks in flight amid the trees . 
I hastily took a lump of camphor from my pocket , and prepared to light is as soon as the match should wane . 
Then I looked at Weena . 
She was lying clutching my feet and quite motionless , with her face to the ground . 
With a sudden fright I stooped to her . 
She seemed scarcely to breathe . 
The wood behind seemed full of the stir and murmur of a great company ! She seemed to have fainted . 
I put her carefully upon my shoulder and rose to push on , and then there came a horrible realization . 
In manoeuvring with my matches and Weena , I had turned myself about several times , and now I had not the faintest idea in what direction lay my path . 
For all I knew , I might be facing back towards the Palace of Green Porcelain . 
I found myself in a cold sweat . 
I had to think rapidly what to do . 
I determined to build a fire and encamp where we were . 
I put Weena , still motionless , down upon a turfy bole , and very hastily , as my first lump of camphor waned , I began collecting sticks and leaves . 
Here and there out of the darkness round me the Morlocks' eyes shone like carbuncles . 
The camphor flickered and went out . 
I lit a match , and as I did so , two white forms that had been approaching Weena dashed hastily away . 
One was so blinded by the light that he came straight for me , and I felt his bones grind under the blow of my fist . 
He gave a whoop of dismay , staggered a little way , and fell down . 
I lit another piece of camphor , and went on gathering my bonfire . 
Presently I noticed how dry was some of the foliage above me , for since my arrival on the Time Machine , a matter of a week , no rain had fallen . 
So , instead of casting about among the trees for fallen twigs , I began leaping up and dragging down branches . 
Very soon I had a choking smoky fire of green wood and dry sticks , and could economize my camphor . 
Then I turned to where Weena lay beside my iron mace . 
I tried what I could to revive her , but she lay like one dead . 
I could not even satisfy myself whether or not she breathed . 
Now , the smoke of the fire beat over towards me , and it must have made me heavy of a sudden . 
Moreover , the vapour of camphor was in the air . 
My fire would not need replenishing for an hour or so . 
I felt very weary after my exertion , and sat down . 
The wood , too , was full of a slumbrous murmur that I did not understand . 
I seemed just to nod and open my eyes . 
But all was dark , and the Morlocks had their hands upon me . 
Flinging off their clinging fingers I hastily felt in my pocket for the match box , and it had gone ! Then they gripped and closed with me again . 
In a moment I knew what had happened . 
I had slept , and my fire had gone out , and the bitterness of death came over my soul . 
The forest seemed full of the smell of burning wood . 
I was caught by the neck , by the hair , by the arms , and pulled down . 
It was indescribably horrible in the darkness to feel all these soft creatures heaped upon me . 
I felt as if I was in a monstrous spider's web . 
I was overpowered , and went down . 
I felt little teeth nipping at my neck . 
I rolled over , and as I did so my hand came against my iron lever . 
I struggled up , shaking the human rats from me , and , holding the bar short , I thrust where I judged their faces might be . 
I could feel the succulent giving of flesh and bone under my blows , and for a moment I was free . 
The strange exultation that so often seems to accompany hard fighting came upon me . 
I knew that both I and Weena were lost , but I determined to make the Morlocks pay for their meat . 
I stood with my back to a tree , swinging the iron bar before me . 
The whole wood was full of the stir and cries of them . 
Their voices seemed to rise to a higher pitch of excitement , and their movements grew faster . 
Yet none came within reach . 
I stood glaring at the blackness . 
What if the Morlocks were afraid ? And close on the heels of that came a strange thing . 
The darkness seemed to grow luminous . 
And their backs seemed no longer white , but reddish . 
As I stood agape , I saw a little red spark go drifting across a gap of starlight between the branches , and vanish . 
And at that I understood the smell of burning wood , the slumbrous murmur that was growing now into a gusty roar , the red glow , and the Morlocks' flight . 
Stepping out from behind my tree and looking back , I saw , through the black pillars of the nearer trees , the flames of the burning forest . 
It was my first fire coming after me . 
With that I looked for Weena , but she was gone . 
The hissing and crackling behind me , the explosive thud as each fresh tree burst into flame , left little time for reflection . 
My iron bar still gripped , I followed in the Morlocks' path . 
It was a close race . 
Once the flames crept forward so swiftly on my right as I ran that I was outflanked and had to strike off to the left . 
This whole space was as bright as day with the reflection of the fire . 
In the centre was a hillock or tumulus , surmounted by a scorched hawthorn . 
Beyond this was another arm of the burning forest , with yellow tongues already writhing from it , completely encircling the space with a fence of fire . 
Upon the hill side were some thirty or forty Morlocks , dazzled by the light and heat , and blundering hither and thither against each other in their bewilderment . 
Yet every now and then one would come straight towards me , setting loose a quivering horror that made me quick to elude him . 
At one time the flames died down somewhat , and I feared the foul creatures would presently be able to see me . 
I was thinking of beginning the fight by killing some of them before this should happen but the fire burst out again brightly , and I stayed my hand . 
I walked about the hill among them and avoided them , looking for some trace of Weena . 
The coiling uprush of smoke streamed across the sky , and through the rare tatters of that red canopy , remote as though they belonged to another universe , shone the little stars . 
Two or three Morlocks came blundering into me , and I drove them off with blows of my fists , trembling as I did so . 
For the most part of that night I was persuaded it was a nightmare . 
I bit myself and screamed in a passionate desire to awake . 
I beat the ground with my hands , and got up and sat down again , and wandered here and there , and again sat down . 
Then I would fall to rubbing my eyes and calling upon God to let me awake . 
Thrice I saw Morlocks put their heads down in a kind of agony and rush into the flames . 
I searched again for traces of Weena , but there were none . 
It was plain that they had left her poor little body in the forest . 
I cannot describe how it relieved me to think that it had escaped the awful fate to which it seemed destined . 
As I thought of that , I was almost moved to begin a massacre of the helpless abominations about me , but I contained myself . 
The hillock , as I have said , was a kind of island in the forest . 
From its summit I could now make out through a haze of smoke the Palace of Green Porcelain , and from that I could get my bearings for the White Sphinx . 
I walked slowly , for I was almost exhausted , as well as lame , and I felt the intensest wretchedness for the horrible death of little Weena . 
It seemed an overwhelming calamity . 
Now , in this old familiar room , it is more like the sorrow of a dream than an actual loss . 
But that morning it left me absolutely lonely again terribly alone . 
I began to think of this house of mine , of this fireside , of some of you , and with such thoughts came a longing that was pain . 
But as I walked over the smoking ashes under the bright morning sky , I made a discovery . 
In my trouser pocket were still some loose matches . 
The box must have leaked before it was lost . 
X About eight or nine in the morning I came to the same seat of yellow metal from which I had viewed the world upon the evening of my arrival . 
I thought of my hasty conclusions upon that evening and could not refrain from laughing bitterly at my confidence . 
Here was the same beautiful scene , the same abundant foliage , the same splendid palaces and magnificent ruins , the same silver river running between its fertile banks . 
The gay robes of the beautiful people moved hither and thither among the trees . 
Some were bathing in exactly the place where I had saved Weena , and that suddenly gave me a keen stab of pain . 
And like blots upon the landscape rose the cupolas above the ways to the Under world . 
I understood now what all the beauty of the Over world people covered . 
Very pleasant was their day , as pleasant as the day of the cattle in the field . 
Like the cattle , they knew of no enemies and provided against no needs . 
And their end was the same . 
I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been . 
It had set itself steadfastly towards comfort and ease , a balanced society with security and permanency as its watchword , it had attained its hopes to come to this at last . 
Once , life and property must have reached almost absolute safety . 
The rich had been assured of his wealth and comfort , the toiler assured of his life and work . 
No doubt in that perfect world there had been no unemployed problem , no social question left unsolved . 
And a great quiet had followed . 
It is a law of nature we overlook , that intellectual versatility is the compensation for change , danger , and trouble . 
An animal perfectly in harmony with its environment is a perfect mechanism . 
Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are useless . 
There is no intelligence where there is no change and no need of change . 
Only those animals partake of intelligence that have to meet a huge variety of needs and dangers . 
So , as I see it , the Upper world man had drifted towards his feeble prettiness , and the Under world to mere mechanical industry . 
But that perfect state had lacked one thing even for mechanical perfection absolute permanency . 
Apparently as time went on , the feeding of the Under world , however it was effected , had become disjointed . 
Mother Necessity , who had been staved off for a few thousand years , came back again , and she began below . 
And when other meat failed them , they turned to what old habit had hitherto forbidden . 
So I say I saw it in my last view of the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One . 
It may be as wrong an explanation as mortal wit could invent . 
It is how the thing shaped itself to me , and as that I give it to you . 
After the fatigues , excitements , and terrors of the past days , and in spite of my grief , this seat and the tranquil view and the warm sunlight were very pleasant . 
I was very tired and sleepy , and soon my theorizing passed into dozing . 
Catching myself at that , I took my own hint , and spreading myself out upon the turf I had a long and refreshing sleep . 
I awoke a little before sunsetting . 
I now felt safe against being caught napping by the Morlocks , and , stretching myself , I came on down the hill towards the White Sphinx . 
I had my crowbar in one hand , and the other hand played with the matches in my pocket . 
And now came a most unexpected thing . 
As I approached the pedestal of the sphinx I found the bronze valves were open . 
They had slid down into grooves . 
At that I stopped short before them , hesitating to enter . 
Within was a small apartment , and on a raised place in the corner of this was the Time Machine . 
I had the small levers in my pocket . 
So here , after all my elaborate preparations for the siege of the White Sphinx , was a meek surrender . 
I threw my iron bar away , almost sorry not to use it . 
A sudden thought came into my head as I stooped towards the portal . 
For once , at least , I grasped the mental operations of the Morlocks . 
Suppressing a strong inclination to laugh , I stepped through the bronze frame and up to the Time Machine . 
I was surprised to find it had been carefully oiled and cleaned . 
I have suspected since that the Morlocks had even partially taken it to pieces while trying in their dim way to grasp its purpose . 
Now as I stood and examined it , finding a pleasure in the mere touch of the contrivance , the thing I had expected happened . 
The bronze panels suddenly slid up and struck the frame with a clang . 
I was in the dark trapped . 
At that I chuckled gleefully . 
I could already hear their murmuring laughter as they came towards me . 
Very calmly I tried to strike the match . 
I had only to fix on the levers and depart then like a ghost . 
But I had overlooked one little thing . 
The matches were of that abominable kind that light only on the box . 
You may imagine how all my calm vanished . 
The little brutes were close upon me . 
I made a sweeping blow in the dark at them with the levers , and began to scramble into the saddle of the machine . 
Then came one hand upon me and then another . 
Then I had simply to fight against their persistent fingers for my levers , and at the same time feel for the studs over which these fitted . 
One , indeed , they almost got away from me . 
As it slipped from my hand , I had to butt in the dark with my head I could hear the Morlock's skull ring to recover it . 
It was a nearer thing than the fight in the forest , I think , this last scramble . 
But at last the lever was fitted and pulled over . 
The clinging hands slipped from me . 
The darkness presently fell from my eyes . 
I found myself in the same grey light and tumult I have already described . 
XI I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling . 
And this time I was not seated properly in the saddle , but sideways and in an unstable fashion . 
One dial records days , and another thousands of days , another millions of days , and another thousands of millions . 
As I drove on , a peculiar change crept over the appearance of things . 
This puzzled me very much at first . 
The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower , and so did the passage of the sun across the sky , until they seemed to stretch through centuries . 
At last a steady twilight brooded over the earth , a twilight only broken now and then when a comet glared across the darkling sky . 
All trace of the moon had vanished . 
The circling of the stars , growing slower and slower , had given place to creeping points of light . 
At one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again , but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat . 
I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal drag was done . 
The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun , even as in our own time the moon faces the earth . 
Very cautiously , for I remembered my former headlong fall , I began to reverse my motion . 
Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale . 
Still slower , until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible . 
I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine , looking round . 
The sky was no longer blue . 
North eastward it was inky black , and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily the pale white stars . 
It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the lichen in caves plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight . 
The machine was standing on a sloping beach . 
The sea stretched away to the south west , to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky . 
There were no breakers and no waves , for not a breath of wind was stirring . 
Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a gentle breathing , and showed that the eternal sea was still moving and living . 
And along the margin where the water sometimes broke was a thick incrustation of salt pink under the lurid sky . 
There was a sense of oppression in my head , and I noticed that I was breathing very fast . 
The sensation reminded me of my only experience of mountaineering , and from that I judged the air to be more rarefied than it is now . 
The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly upon the machine . 
Looking round me again , I saw that , quite near , what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me . 
Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous crab like creature . 
I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it moved . 
As I stared at this sinister apparition crawling towards me , I felt a tickling on my cheek as though a fly had lighted there . 
I tried to brush it away with my hand , but in a moment it returned , and almost immediately came another by my ear . 
I struck at this , and caught something threadlike . 
It was drawn swiftly out of my hand . 
With a frightful qualm , I turned , and I saw that I had grasped the antenna of another monster crab that stood just behind me . 
Its evil eyes were wriggling on their stalks , its mouth was all alive with appetite , and its vast ungainly claws , smeared with an algal slime , were descending upon me . 
In a moment my hand was on the lever , and I had placed a month between myself and these monsters . 
But I was still on the same beach , and I saw them distinctly now as soon as I stopped . 
Dozens of them seemed to be crawling here and there , in the sombre light , among the foliated sheets of intense green . 
I cannot convey the sense of abominable desolation that hung over the world . 
And in the westward sky , I saw a curved pale line like a vast new moon . 
At last , more than thirty million years hence , the huge red hot dome of the sun had come to obscure nearly a tenth part of the darkling heavens . 
Then I stopped once more , for the crawling multitude of crabs had disappeared , and the red beach , save for its livid green liverworts and lichens , seemed lifeless . 
And now it was flecked with white . 
A bitter cold assailed me . 
Rare white flakes ever and again came eddying down . 
To the north eastward , the glare of snow lay under the starlight of the sable sky and I could see an undulating crest of hillocks pinkish white . 
I looked about me to see if any traces of animal life remained . 
A certain indefinable apprehension still kept me in the saddle of the machine . 
But I saw nothing moving , in earth or sky or sea . 
The green slime on the rocks alone testified that life was not extinct . 
A shallow sandbank had appeared in the sea and the water had receded from the beach . 
The stars in the sky were intensely bright and seemed to me to twinkle very little . 
Suddenly I noticed that the circular westward outline of the sun had changed that a concavity , a bay , had appeared in the curve . 
I saw this grow larger . 
For a minute perhaps I stared aghast at this blackness that was creeping over the day , and then I realized that an eclipse was beginning . 
Either the moon or the planet Mercury was passing across the sun's disk . 
The darkness grew apace a cold wind began to blow in freshening gusts from the east , and the showering white flakes in the air increased in number . 
From the edge of the sea came a ripple and whisper . 
Beyond these lifeless sounds the world was silent . 
Silent ? It would be hard to convey the stillness of it . 
As the darkness thickened , the eddying flakes grew more abundant , dancing before my eyes and the cold of the air more intense . 
At last , one by one , swiftly , one after the other , the white peaks of the distant hills vanished into blackness . 
The breeze rose to a moaning wind . 
I saw the black central shadow of the eclipse sweeping towards me . 
In another moment the pale stars alone were visible . 
All else was rayless obscurity . 
The sky was absolutely black . 
A horror of this great darkness came on me . 
The cold , that smote to my marrow , and the pain I felt in breathing , overcame me . 
I shivered , and a deadly nausea seized me . 
Then like a red hot bow in the sky appeared the edge of the sun . 
I got off the machine to recover myself . 
I felt giddy and incapable of facing the return journey . 
As I stood sick and confused I saw again the moving thing upon the shoal there was no mistake now that it was a moving thing against the red water of the sea . 
Then I felt I was fainting . 
But a terrible dread of lying helpless in that remote and awful twilight sustained me while I clambered upon the saddle . 
XII So I came back . 
For a long time I must have been insensible upon the machine . 
The blinking succession of the days and nights was resumed , the sun got golden again , the sky blue . 
I breathed with greater freedom . 
The fluctuating contours of the land ebbed and flowed . 
The hands spun backward upon the dials . 
At last I saw again the dim shadows of houses , the evidences of decadent humanity . 
These , too , changed and passed , and others came . 
Presently , when the million dial was at zero , I slackened speed . 
I began to recognize our own petty and familiar architecture , the thousands hand ran back to the starting point , the night and day flapped slower and slower . 
Then the old walls of the laboratory came round me . 
Very gently , now , I slowed the mechanism down . 
I saw one little thing that seemed odd to me . 
As I returned , I passed again across that minute when she traversed the laboratory . 
But now her every motion appeared to be the exact inversion of her previous ones . 
The door at the lower end opened , and she glided quietly up the laboratory , back foremost , and disappeared behind the door by which she had previously entered . 
Just before that I seemed to see Hillyer for a moment but he passed like a flash . 
Then I stopped the machine , and saw about me again the old familiar laboratory , my tools , my appliances just as I had left them . 
I got off the thing very shaky , and sat down upon my bench . 
For several minutes I trembled violently . 
Around me was my old workshop again , exactly as it had been . 
I might have slept there , and the whole thing have been a dream . 
And yet , not exactly ! The thing had started from the south east corner of the laboratory . 
It had come to rest again in the north west , against the wall where you saw it . 
That gives you the exact distance from my little lawn to the pedestal of the White Sphinx , into which the Morlocks had carried my machine . 
For a time my brain went stagnant . 
Presently I got up and came through the passage here , limping , because my heel was still painful , and feeling sorely begrimed . 
I saw the PALL MALL GAZETTE on the table by the door . 
I found the date was indeed to day , and looking at the timepiece , saw the hour was almost eight o'clock . 
I heard your voices and the clatter of plates . 
I hesitated I felt so sick and weak . 
Then I sniffed good wholesome meat , and opened the door on you . 
I washed , and dined , and now I am telling you the story . 
I know , he said , after a pause , that all this will be absolutely incredible to you . 
To me the one incredible thing is that I am here to night in this old familiar room looking into your friendly faces and telling you these strange adventures . 
He looked at the Medical Man . 
No. I cannot expect you to believe it . 
Take it as a lie or a prophecy . 
Say I dreamed it in the workshop . 
Consider I have been speculating upon the destinies of our race until I have hatched this fiction . 
Treat my assertion of its truth as a mere stroke of art to enhance its interest . 
There was a momentary stillness . 
Then chairs began to creak and shoes to scrape upon the carpet . 
I took my eyes off the Time Traveller's face , and looked round at his audience . 
They were in the dark , and little spots of colour swam before them . 
The Medical Man seemed absorbed in the contemplation of our host . 
The Editor was looking hard at the end of his cigar the sixth . 
The Journalist fumbled for his watch . 
The others , as far as I remember , were motionless . 
The Editor stood up with a sigh . 
What a pity it is you're not a writer of stories ! he said , putting his hand on the Time Traveller's shoulder . 
You don't believe it ? Well I thought not . 
The Time Traveller turned to us . 
Where are the matches ? he said . 
He lit one and spoke over his pipe , puffing . 
To tell you the truth . 
I hardly believe it myself . 
His eye fell with a mute inquiry upon the withered white flowers upon the little table . 
Then he turned over the hand holding his pipe , and I saw he was looking at some half healed scars on his knuckles . 
The Medical Man rose , came to the lamp , and examined the flowers . 
The gynaeceum's odd , he said . 
The Psychologist leant forward to see , holding out his hand for a specimen . 
I'm hanged if it isn't a quarter to one , said the Journalist . 
How shall we get home ? Plenty of cabs at the station , said the Psychologist . 
It's a curious thing , said the Medical Man but I certainly don't know the natural order of these flowers . 
May I have them ? The Time Traveller hesitated . 
Where did you really get them ? said the Medical Man . 
The Time Traveller put his hand to his head . 
He spoke like one who was trying to keep hold of an idea that eluded him . 
'They were put into my pocket by Weena , when I travelled into Time . 
He stared round the room . 
I'm damned if it isn't all going . 
This room and you and the atmosphere of every day is too much for my memory . 
And where did the dream come from ? . 
I must look at that machine . 
If there is one ! He caught up the lamp swiftly , and carried it , flaring red , through the door into the corridor . 
There in the flickering light of the lamp was the machine sure enough , squat , ugly , and askew a thing of brass , ebony , ivory , and translucent glimmering quartz . 
The Time Traveller put the lamp down on the bench , and ran his hand along the damaged rail . 
It's all right now , he said . 
'The story I told you was true . 
I'm sorry to have brought you out here in the cold . 
He took up the lamp , and , in an absolute silence , we returned to the smoking room . 
He came into the hall with us and helped the Editor on with his coat . 
The Medical Man looked into his face and , with a certain hesitation , told him he was suffering from overwork , at which he laughed hugely . 
I remember him standing in the open doorway , bawling good night . 
I shared a cab with the Editor . 
He thought the tale a gaudy lie . 
For my own part I was unable to come to a conclusion . 
The story was so fantastic and incredible , the telling so credible and sober . 
I lay awake most of the night thinking about it . 
I determined to go next day and see the Time Traveller again . 
I was told he was in the laboratory , and being on easy terms in the house , I went up to him . 
The laboratory , however , was empty . 
I stared for a minute at the Time Machine and put out my hand and touched the lever . 
At that the squat substantial looking mass swayed like a bough shaken by the wind . 
Its instability startled me extremely , and I had a queer reminiscence of the childish days when I used to be forbidden to meddle . 
I came back through the corridor . 
The Time Traveller met me in the smoking room . 
He was coming from the house . 
He had a small camera under one arm and a knapsack under the other . 
He laughed when he saw me , and gave me an elbow to shake . 
I'm frightfully busy , said he , with that thing in there . 
But is it not some hoax ? I said . 
Do you really travel through time ? Really and truly I do . 
And he looked frankly into my eyes . 
His eye wandered about the room . 
I only want half an hour , he said . 
I know why you came , and it's awfully good of you . 
If you'll stop to lunch I'll prove you this time travelling up to the hilt , specimen and all . 
If you'll forgive my leaving you now ? I consented , hardly comprehending then the full import of his words , and he nodded and went on down the corridor . 
I heard the door of the laboratory slam , seated myself in a chair , and took up a daily paper . 
What was he going to do before lunch time ? Then suddenly I was reminded by an advertisement that I had promised to meet Richardson , the publisher , at two . 
I looked at my watch , and saw that I could barely save that engagement . 
I got up and went down the passage to tell the Time Traveller . 
As I took hold of the handle of the door I heard an exclamation , oddly truncated at the end , and a click and a thud . 
A gust of air whirled round me as I opened the door , and from within came the sound of broken glass falling on the floor . 
The Time Traveller was not there . 
The Time Machine had gone . 
Save for a subsiding stir of dust , the further end of the laboratory was empty . 
A pane of the skylight had , apparently , just been blown in . 
I felt an unreasonable amazement . 
I knew that something strange had happened , and for the moment could not distinguish what the strange thing might be . 
As I stood staring , the door into the garden opened , and the man servant appeared . 
We looked at each other . 
Then ideas began to come . 
Has Mr. gone out that way ? said I. No , sir . 
No one has come out this way . 
I was expecting to find him here . 
But I am beginning now to fear that I must wait a lifetime . 
The Time Traveller vanished three years ago . 
And , as everybody knows now , he has never returned . 
EPILOGUE One cannot choose but wonder . 
He may even now if I may use the phrase be wandering on some plesiosaurus haunted Oolitic coral reef , or beside the lonely saline lakes of the Triassic Age . 
If that is so , it remains for us to live as though it were not so . 
But to me the future is still black and blank is a vast ignorance , lit at a few casual places by the memory of his story . 
