None the less , it is quite unlike his other writings . 
There is indeed a good deal of the prophet about John Ruskin . 
While still in college , what seemed a chance incident gave occasion and direction to this mission . 
A certain English reviewer had ridiculed the work of the artist Turner . 
Now Ruskin held Turner to be the greatest landscape painter the world had seen , and he immediately wrote a notable article in his defense . 
Slowly this article grew into a pamphlet , and the pamphlet into a book , the first volume of Modern Painters . 
The young man awoke to find himself famous . 
Then , in , when Ruskin was about forty years old , there came a great change . 
His heaven born genius for making the appreciation of beauty a common possession was deflected from its true field . 
A civilization founded upon unrestricted competition therefore seemed to him necessarily feeble in appreciation of the beautiful , and unequal to its creation . 
In this way loyalty to his mission bred apparent disloyalty . 
Delightful discourses upon art gave way to fervid pleas for humanity . 
For the rest of his life he became a very earnest , if not always very wise , social reformer and a passionate pleader for what he believed to be true economic ideals . 
There is nothing of all this in The King of the Golden River . 
Unlike his other works , it was written merely to entertain . 
Scarcely that , since it was not written for publication at all , but to meet a challenge set him by a young girl . 
After taking his degree at Oxford , Ruskin was threatened with consumption and hurried away from the chill and damp of England to the south of Europe . 
After two years of fruitful travel and study he came back improved in health but not strong , and often depressed in spirit . 
The coming of this beautiful , vivacious , light hearted child opened a new chapter in Ruskin's life . 
Though but twelve years old , she sought to enliven the melancholy student , absorbed in art and geology , and bade him leave these and write for her a fairy tale . 
He accepted , and after but two sittings , presented her with this charming story . 
The incident proved to have awakened in him a greater interest than at first appeared , for a few years later Effie Grey became John Ruskin's wife . 
Meantime she had given the manuscript to a friend . 
Nine years after it was written , this friend , with John Ruskin's permission , gave the story to the world . 
It was published in London in , with illustrations by the celebrated Richard Doyle , and at once became a favorite . 
Three editions were printed the first year , and soon it had found its way into German , Italian , and Welsh . 
For this edition new drawings have been prepared by Mr. Hiram P. Barnes . 
They very successfully preserve the spirit of Doyle's illustrations , which unfortunately are not technically suitable for reproduction here . 
HANS SET OFF ON AN EXPEDITION TO THE GOLDEN RIVER , AND HOW HE PROSPERED THEREIN CHAPTER IV HOW MR . 
It was surrounded on all sides by steep and rocky mountains rising into peaks which were always covered with snow and from which a number of torrents descended in constant cataracts . 
It was therefore called by the people of the neighborhood the Golden River . 
It was strange that none of these streams fell into the valley itself . 
They all descended on the other side of the mountains and wound away through broad plains and by populous cities . 
The whole of this little valley belonged to three brothers , called Schwartz , Hans , and Gluck . 
They lived by farming the Treasure Valley , and very good farmers they were . 
They killed everything that did not pay for its eating . 
They worked their servants without any wages till they would not work any more , and then quarreled with them and turned them out of doors without paying them . 
It wouuld have been very odd if with such a farm and such a system of farming they hadn't got very rich and very rich they DID get . 
The youngest brother , Gluck , was as completely opposed , in both appearance and character , to his seniors as could possibly be imagined or desired . 
He was not above twelve years old , fair , blue eyed , and kind in temper to every living thing . 
He did not , of course , agree particularly well with his brothers , or , rather , they did not agree with HIM . 
Things went on in this manner for a long time . 
At last came a very wet summer , and everything went wrong in the country round . 
Only in the Treasure Valley , as usual , all was safe . 
As it had rain when there was rain nowhere else , so it had sun when there was sun nowhere else . 
Everybody came to buy corn at the farm and went away pouring maledictions on the Black Brothers . 
Gluck sat down quite close to the fire , for it was raining very hard and the kitchen walls were by no means dry or comfortable looking . 
He turned and turned , and the roast got nice and brown . 
What a pity , thought Gluck , my brothers never ask anybody to dinner . 
It must be the wind , said Gluck nobody else would venture to knock double knocks at our door . 
Gluck went to the window , opened it , and put his head out to see who it was . 
It was the most extraordinary looking little gentleman he had ever seen in his life . 
He was about four feet six in height and wore a conical pointed cap of nearly the same altitude , decorated with a black feather some three feet long . 
In so doing he caught sight of Gluck's little yellow head jammed in the window , with its mouth and eyes very wide open indeed . 
Hollo ! said the little gentleman that's not the way to answer the door . 
I'm wet let me in . 
To do the little gentleman justice , he WAS wet . 
I beg pardon , sir , said Gluck , I'm very sorry , but , I really can't . 
Can't what ? said the old gentleman . 
I can't let you in , sir I can't , indeed my brothers would beat me to death , sir , if I thought of such a thing . 
What do you want , sir ? Want ? said the old gentleman petulantly . 
I want fire and shelter , and there's your great fire there blazing , crackling , and dancing on the walls with nobody to feel it . 
Let me in , I say I only want to warm myself . 
He does look very wet , said little Gluck I'll just let him in for a quarter of an hour . 
Round he went to the door and opened it and as the little gentleman walked in , there came a gust of wind through the house that made the old chimneys totter . 
That's a good boy , said the little gentleman . 
Pray , sir , don't do any such thing , said Gluck . 
I can't let you stay till they come they'd be the death of me . 
Dear me , said the old gentleman , I'm very sorry to hear that . 
How long may I stay ? Only till the mutton's done , sir , replied Gluck , and it's very brown . 
You'll soon dry there , sir , said Gluck , and sat down again to turn the mutton . 
Never was such a cloak every fold in it ran like a gutter . 
Your cap , sir ? I am all right , thank you , said the old gentleman rather gruffly . 
But sir I'm very sorry , said Gluck hesitatingly , but really , sir you're putting the fire out . 
It'll take longer to do the mutton , then , replied his visitor dryly . 
Gluck was very much puzzled by the behavior of his guest it was such a strange mixture of coolness and humility . 
He turned away at the string meditatively for another five minutes . 
That mutton looks very nice , said the old gentleman at length . 
Can't you give me a little bit ? Impossible , sir , said Gluck . 
I'm very hungry , continued the old gentleman . 
I've had nothing to eat yesterday nor to day . 
They surely couldn't miss a bit from the knuckle ! He spoke in so very melancholy a tone that it quite melted Gluck's heart . 
They promised me one slice to day , sir , said he I can give you that , but not a bit more . 
That's a good boy , said the old gentleman again . 
Then Gluck warmed a plate and sharpened a knife . 
I don't care if I do get beaten for it , thought he . 
Just as he had cut a large slice out of the mutton there came a tremendous rap at the door . 
The old gentleman jumped off the hob as if it had suddenly become inconveniently warm . 
Gluck fitted the slice into the mutton again , with desperate efforts at exactitude , and ran to open the door . 
What did you keep us waiting in the rain for ? said Schwartz , as he walked in , throwing his umbrella in Gluck's face . 
Aye ! what for , indeed , you little vagabond ? said Hans , administering an educational box on the ear as he followed his brother into the kitchen . 
Bless my soul ! said Schwartz when he opened the door . 
Amen , said the little gentleman , who had taken his cap off and was standing in the middle of the kitchen , bowing with the utmost possible velocity . 
Who's that ? said Schwartz , catching up a rolling pin and turning to Gluck with a fierce frown . 
I don't know , indeed , brother , said Gluck in great terror . 
How did he get in ? roared Schwartz . 
Who are you , sir ? demanded Schwartz , turning upon him . 
What's your business ? snarled Hans . 
I'm a poor old man , sir , the little gentleman began very modestly , and I saw your fire through the window and begged shelter for a quarter of an hour . 
Have the goodness to walk out again , then , said Schwartz . 
We've quite enough water in our kitchen without making it a drying house . 
It is a cold day toturn an oldman out in , sir look at my gray hairs . 
They hung down to his shoulders , as I told you before . 
Aye ! said Hans there are enough of them to keep you warm . 
Out with you ! A little bit , said the old gentleman . 
Be off ! said Schwartz . 
Off , and be hanged ! cried Hans , seizing him by the collar . 
And so there they lay , all three . 
, gave an additional twist to his corkscrew mustaches , and replied with perfect coolness Gentlemen , I wish you a very good morning . 
A very pretty business , indeed , Mr. Gluck ! said Schwartz . 
Dish the mutton , sir . 
If ever I catch you at such a trick again bless me , why , the mutton's been cut ! You promised me one slice , brother , you know , said Gluck . 
Oh ! and you were cutting it hot , I suppose , and going to catch all the gravy . 
It'll be long before I promise you such a thing again . 
Leave the room , sir and have the kindness to wait in the coal cellar till I call you . 
Gluck left the room melancholy enough . 
The brothers ate as much mutton as they could , locked the rest in the cupboard , and proceeded to get very drunk after dinner . 
Such a night as it was ! Howling wind and rushing rain , without intermission . 
The brothers had just sense enough left to put up all the shutters and double bar the door before they went to bed . 
They usually slept in the same room . 
As the clock struck twelve they were both awakened by a tremendous crash . 
Their door burst open with a violence that shook the house from top to bottom . 
What's that ? cried Schwartz , starting up in his bed . 
Only I , said the little gentleman . 
The two brothers sat up on their bolster and stared into the darkness . 
There was plenty of room for it now , for the roof was off . 
Sorry to incommode you , said their visitor ironically . 
I'm afraid your beds are dampish . 
Perhaps you had better go to your brother's room I've left the ceiling on there . 
They required no second admonition , but rushed into Gluck's room , wet through and in an agony of terror . 
You'll find my card on the kitchen table , the old gentleman called after them . 
Remember , the LAST visit . 
Pray Heaven it may ! said Schwartz , shuddering . 
And the foam globe disappeared . 
Dawn came at last , and the two brothers looked out of Gluck's little window in the morning . 
The Treasure Valley was one mass of ruin and desolation . 
The inundation had swept away trees , crops , and cattle , and left in their stead a waste of red sand and gray mud . 
The two brothers crept shivering and horror struck into the kitchen . 
So no rain fell in the valley from one year's end to another . 
Though everything remained green and flourishing in the plains below , the inheritance of the three brothers was a desert . 
All their money was gone , and they had nothing left but some curious old fashioned pieces of gold plate , the last remnants of their ill gotten wealth . 
Suppose we turn goldsmiths , said Schwartz to Hans as they entered the large city . 
It is a good knave's trade we can put a great deal of copper into the gold without anyone's finding it out . 
The thought was agreed to be a very good one they hired a furnace and turned goldsmiths . 
The mug was a very odd mug to look at . 
When they were gone , Gluck took a farewell look at his old friend in the melting pot . 
The flowing hair was all gone nothing remained but the red nose and the sparkling eyes , which looked more malicious than ever . 
And no wonder , thought Gluck , after being treated in that way . 
He sauntered disconsolately to the window and sat himself down to catch the fresh evening air and escape the hot breath of the furnace . 
Ah ! said Gluck aloud , after he had looked at it for a little while , if that river were really all gold , what a nice thing it would be . 
No , it wouldn't , Gluck , said a clear , metallic voice close at his ear . 
Bless me , what's that ? exclaimed Gluck , jumping up . 
He looked round the room and under the table and a great many times behind him , but there was certainly nobody there , and he sat down again at the window . 
This time he didn't speak , but he couldn't help thinking again that it would be very convenient if the river were really all gold . 
Not at all , my boy , said the same voice , louder than before . 
It was singing now , very merrily , Lala lira la no words , only a soft , running , effervescent melody , something like that of a kettle on the boil . 
Gluck looked out of the window no , it was certainly in the house . 
Upstairs and downstairs no , it was certainly in that very room , coming in quicker time and clearer notes every moment Lala lira la . 
All at once it struck Gluck that it sounded louder near the furnace . 
He ran to the opening and looked in . 
Yes , he saw right it seemed to be coming not only out of the furnace but out of the pot . 
Hollo ! said the voice . 
Hollo ! Gluck , my boy , said the pot again . 
Gluck summoned all his energies , walked straight up to the crucible , drew it out of the furnace , and looked in . 
Come , Gluck , my boy , said the voice out of the pot again , I'm all right pour me out . 
But Gluck was too much astonished to do anything of the kind . 
Pour me out , I say , said the voice rather gruffly . 
WILL you pour me out ? said the voice passionately . 
By a violent effort Gluck recovered the use of his limbs , took hold of the crucible , and sloped it , so as to pour out the gold . 
When the dwarf had finished his self examination , he turned his small , sharp eyes full on Gluck and stared at him deliberately for a minute or two . 
No , it wouldn't , Gluck , my boy , said the little man . 
This was certainly rather an abrupt and unconnected mode of commencing conversation . 
Wouldn't it , sir ? said Gluck very mildly and submissively indeed . 
No , said the dwarf , conclusively , no , it wouldn't . 
I , said the little man , am the King of the Golden River . 
Whereupon he turned about again and took two more turns , some six feet long , in order to allow time for the consternation which this announcement produced in his auditor to evaporate . 
After which he again walked up to Gluck and stood still , as if expecting some comment on his communication . 
Gluck determined to say something at all events . 
I hope your Majesty is very well , said Gluck . 
Listen ! said the little man , deigning no reply to this polite inquiry . 
I am the king of what you mortals call the Golden River . 
The shape you saw me in was owing to the malice of a stronger king , from whose enchantments you have this instant freed me . 
What I have seen of you and your conduct to your wicked brothers renders me willing to serve you therefore , attend to what I tell you . 
So saying , the King of the Golden River turned away and deliberately walked into the center of the hottest flame of the furnace . 
His figure became red , white , transparent , dazzling , a blaze of intense light , rose , trembled , and disappeared . 
The King of the Golden River had evaporated . 
Gluck told them his story , of which , of course , they did not believe a word . 
They beat him again , till their arms were tired , and staggered to bed . 
The noise of the fray alarmed the neighbors , who , finding they could not pacify the combatants , sent for the constable . 
When Hans heard this , he was much delighted , and determined to set out immediately for the Golden River . 
How to get the holy water was the question . 
He went to the priest , but the priest could not give any holy water to so abandoned a character . 
So Hans went to vespers in the evening for the first time in his life and , under pretense of crossing himself , stole a cupful and returned home in triumph . 
It was indeed a morning that might have made anyone happy , even with no Golden River to seek for . 
On this object , and on this alone , Hans's eyes and thoughts were fixed . 
He entered on it with the boldness of a practiced mountaineer , yet he thought he had never traversed so strange or so dangerous a glacier in his life . 
The ice was broken into thousands of confused shapes , but none , Hans thought , like the ordinary forms of splintered ice . 
There seemed a curious EXPRESSION about all their outlines a perpetual resemblance to living features , distorted and scornful . 
This , however , relieved his thirst an hour's repose recruited his hardy frame , and with the indomitable spirit of avarice he resumed his laborious journey . 
It was past noon and the rays beat intensely upon the steep path , while the whole atmosphere was motionless and penetrated with heat . 
Intense thirst was soon added to the bodily fatigue with which Hans was now afflicted glance after glance he cast on the flask of water which hung at his belt . 
Three drops are enough , at last thought he I may , at least , cool my lips with it . 
He opened the flask and was raising it to his lips , when his eye fell on an object lying on the rock beside him he thought it moved . 
It was a small dog , apparently in the last agony of death from thirst . 
Its tongue was out , its jaws dry , its limbs extended lifelessly , and a swarm of black ants were crawling about its lips and throat . 
Its eye moved to the bottle which Hans held in his hand . 
He raised it , drank , spurned the animal with his foot , and passed on . 
And he did not know how it was , but he thought that a strange shadow had suddenly come across the blue sky . 
The path became steeper and more rugged every moment , and the high hill air , instead of refreshing him , seemed to throw his blood into a fever . 
The noise of the hill cataracts sounded like mockery in his ears they were all distant , and his thirst increased every moment . 
Another hour passed , and he again looked down to the flask at his side it was half empty , but there was much more than three drops in it . 
He stopped to open it , and again , as he did so , something moved in the path above him . 
It was a fair child , stretched nearly lifeless on the rock , its breast heaving with thirst , its eyes closed , and its lips parched and burning . 
Hans eyed it deliberately , drank , and passed on . 
And a dark gray cloud came over the sun , and long , snakelike shadows crept up along the mountain sides . 
The sun was sinking , but its descent seemed to bring no coolness the leaden height of the dead air pressed upon his brow and heart , but the goal was near . 
He saw the cataract of the Golden River springing from the hillside scarcely five hundred feet above him . 
He paused for a moment to breathe , and sprang on to complete his task . 
At this instant a faint cry fell on his ear . 
He turned , and saw a gray haired old man extended on the rocks . 
His eyes were sunk , his features deadly pale and gathered into an expression of despair . 
Water ! he stretched his arms to Hans , and cried feebly , Water ! I am dying . 
I have none , replied Hans thou hast had thy share of life . 
He strode over the prostrate body and darted on . 
And a flash of blue lightning rose out of the East , shaped like a sword it shook thrice over the whole heaven and left it dark with one heavy , impenetrable shade . 
The sun was setting it plunged towards the horizon like a redhot ball . 
The roar of the Golden River rose on Hans's ear . 
He stood at the brink of the chasm through which it ran . 
Its waves were filled with the red glory of the sunset they shook their crests like tongues of fire , and flashes of bloody light gleamed along their foam . 
Their sound came mightier and mightier on his senses his brain grew giddy with the prolonged thunder . 
Shuddering he drew the flask from his girdle and hurled it into the center of the torrent . 
As he did so , an icy chill shot through his limbs he staggered , shrieked , and fell . 
The waters closed over his cry , and the moaning of the river rose wildly into the night as it gushed over THE BLACK STONE CHAPTER IV HOW MR . 
SCHWARTZ SET OFF ON AN EXPEDITION TO THE GOLDEN RIVER , AND HOW HE PROSPERED THEREIN Poor little Gluck waited very anxiously , alone in the house , for Hans's return . 
Finding he did not come back , he was terribly frightened and went and told Schwartz in the prison all that had happened . 
Then Schwartz was very much pleased and said that Hans must certainly have been turned into a black stone and he should have all the gold to himself . 
But Gluck was very sorry and cried all night . 
Then Schwartz was quite pleased and said he should have some of the gold of the river . 
But Gluck only begged he would go and see what had become of Hans . 
So he took some more of Gluck's money and went to a bad priest , who gave him some holy water very readily for it . 
Then Schwartz was sure it was all quite right . 
Like his brother he was much surprised at the sight of the glacier and had great difficulty in crossing it , even after leaving his basket behind him . 
The day was cloudless but not bright there was a heavy purple haze hanging over the sky , and the hills looked lowering and gloomy . 
And as Schwartz climbed the steep rock path the thirst came upon him , as it had upon his brother , until he lifted his flask to his lips to drink . 
Then he saw the fair child lying near him on the rocks , and it cried to him and moaned for water . 
Water , indeed , said Schwartz I haven't half enough for myself , and passed on . 
Then he saw the old man lying before him on the path , and heard him cry out for water . 
Water , indeed , said Schwartz I haven't half enough for myself , and on he went . 
Ha , ha ! laughed Schwartz , are you there ? Remember the prison bars , my boy . 
And when he had gone a few yards farther , he looked back but the figure was not there . 
And a sudden horror came over Schwartz , he knew not why but the thirst for gold prevailed over his fear , and he rushed on . 
And as he did so the lightning glared in his eyes , and the earth gave way beneath him , and the waters closed over his cry . 
He had no money and was obliged to go and hire himself again to the goldsmith , who worked him very hard and gave him very little money . 
So , after a month or two , Gluck grew tired and made up his mind to go and try his fortune with the Golden River . 
The little king looked very kind , thought he . 
I don't think he will turn me into a black stone . 
So he went to the priest , and the priest gave him some holy water as soon as he asked for it . 
Then Gluck took some bread in his basket , and the bottle of water , and set off very early for the mountains . 
If the glacier had occasioned a great deal of fatigue in his brothers , it was twenty times worse for him , who was neither so strong nor so practiced on the mountains . 
He had several very bad falls , lost his basket and bread , and was very much frightened at the strange noises under the ice . 
He lay a long time to rest on the grass , after he had got over , and began to climb the hill just in the hottest part of the clay . 
Why son , said the old man , I am faint with thirst give me some of that water . 
Then Gluck looked at him , and when he saw that he was pale and weary , he gave him the water . 
Only pray don't drink it all , said Gluck . 
But the old man drank a great deal and gave him back the bottle two thirds empty . 
Then he bade him good speed , and Gluck went on again merrily . 
Then he went on for another hour , and the thirst increased on him so that he thought he should be forced to drink . 
But as he raised the flask he saw a little child lying panting by the roadside , and it cried out piteously for water . 
Then Gluck struggled with himself and determined to bear the thirst a little longer and he put the bottle to the child's lips , and it drank it all but a few drops . 
And crimson and purple butterflies darted hither and thither , and the sky sent down such pure light that Gluck had never felt so happy in his life . 
Poor beastie , said Gluck , it'll be dead when I come down again , if I don't help it . 
Then he looked closer and closer at it , and its eye turned on him so mournfully that he could not stand it . 
Confound the king and his gold too , said Gluck , and he opened the flask and poured all the water into the dog's mouth . 
The dog sprang up and stood on its hind legs . 
Thank you , said the monarch . 
But don't be frightened it's all right for Gluck showed manifest symptoms of consternation at this unlooked for reply to his last observation . 
O dear me ! said Gluck , have you really been so cruel ? Cruel ! said the dwarf they poured unholy water into my stream . 
So saying , the dwarf stooped and plucked a lily that grew at his feet . 
On its white leaves there hung three drops of clear dew . 
And the dwarf shook them into the flask which Gluck held in his hand . 
Cast these into the river , he said , and descend on the other side of the mountains into the Treasure Valley . 
As he spoke the figure of the dwarf became indistinct . 
The playing colors of his robe formed themselves into a prismatic mist of dewy light he stood for an instant veiled with them as with the belt of a broad rainbow . 
The colors grew faint the mist rose into the air the monarch had evaporated . 
And Gluck climbed to the brink of the Golden River , and its waves were as clear as crystal and as brilliant as the sun . 
And when he cast the three drops of dew into the stream , there opened where they fell a small , circular whirlpool , into which the waters descended with a musical noise . 
Gluck stood watching it for some time , very much disappointed , because not only the river was not turned into gold , but its waters seemed much diminished in quantity . 
And as Gluck gazed , fresh grass sprang beside the new streams , and creeping plants grew and climbed among the moistening soil . 
And thus the Treasure Valley became a garden again , and the inheritance which had been lost by cruelty was regained by love . 
And Gluck went and dwelt in the valley , and the poor were never driven from his door , so that his barns became full of corn and his house of treasure . 
And for him the river had , according to the dwarf's promise , become a river of gold . 
