Tales and Fantasies by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
Beyond this hint philosophy is silent on his career , and superstition steps in with the more ready explanation that he was detested of the gods . 
His father that iron gentleman had long ago enthroned himself on the heights of the Disruption Principles . 
no array of terms would render thinkable to the merely English intelligence but to the Scot they often prove unctuously nourishing , and Mr. Nicholson found in them the milk of lions . 
The names of Candlish and Begg were frequent in these interviews , and occasionally the talk ran on the Residuary Establishment and the doings of one Lee . 
A stranger to the tight little theological kingdom of Scotland might have listened and gathered literally nothing . 
knew this , and raged at it . 
, and shut the door behind him , his heart swelled with security . 
Here , at least , was a citadel impregnable by right hand defections or left hand extremes . 
The daughter , Maria , was a good girl dutiful , pious , dull , but so easily startled that to speak to her was quite a perilous enterprise . 
Alexander , the younger brother , was sickly , clever , fond of books and drawing , and full of satirical remarks . 
, and he hated to see a son of his play second fiddle to an idler . 
John was nearly nineteen when he was one day dismissed rather earlier than usual from his father's office , where he was studying the practice of the law . 
The band was playing down in the valley under the castle and when it came to the turn of the pipers , he heard their wild sounds with a stirring of the blood . 
Something distantly martial woke in him and he thought of Miss Mackenzie , whom he was to meet that day at dinner . 
He entered the billiard room , and was instantly greeted by his friend , cue in hand . 
'Nicholson , said he , 'I want you to lend me a pound or two till Monday . 
'You've come to the right shop , haven't you ? returned John . 
Go and borrow at your tailor's they all do it . 
Or I'll tell you what pop your watch . 
'Oh , yes , I dare say , said John . 
'And how about my father ? 'How is he to know ? He doesn't wind it up for you at night , does he ? inquired Alan , at which John guffawed . 
'No , seriously I am in a fix , continued the tempter . 
'I have lost some money to a man here . 
I'll give it you to night , and you can get the heir loom out again on Monday . 
Come it's a small service , after all . 
I would do a good deal more for you . 
Whereupon John went forth , and pawned his gold watch under the assumed name of John Froggs , Pleasance . 
, had taken more time than he imagined and when he returned to the billiard room with the spoils , the bank had already closed its doors . 
This was a shrewd knock . 
'A piece of business had been neglected . 
He heard these words in his father's trenchant voice , and trembled , and then dodged the thought . 
None can admire like a young man . 
Before they parted , Alan made a proposal that was startling in the extreme . 
He would be at Colette's that night about twelve , he said . 
Were it known , it was the sort of exploit that disconsidered a young man for good with the more serious classes , but gave him a standing with the riotous . 
was simply an unlicensed publican , who gave suppers after eleven at night , the Edinburgh hour of closing . 
If you belonged to a club , you could get a much better supper at the same hour , and lose not a jot in public esteem . 
But if you lacked that qualification , and were an hungered , or inclined toward conviviality at unlawful hours , Colette's was your only port . 
You were very ill supplied . 
at the door , were perhaps inclined to somewhat feverish excess . 
But the place was in no sense a very bad one and it is somewhat strange to me , at this distance of time , how it had acquired its dangerous repute . 
In precisely the same spirit as a man may debate a project to ascend the Matterhorn or to cross Africa , John considered Alan's proposal , and , greatly daring , accepted it . 
CHAPTER II IN WHICH JOHN REAPS THE WHIRLWIND ABOUT half past ten it was John's brave good fortune to offer his arm to Miss Mackenzie , and escort her home . 
The night was chill and starry all the way eastward the trees of the different gardens rustled and looked black . 
John had read the significance of that smile , which might have escaped a stranger . 
Mr. Nicholson had remarked his son's entanglement with satisfaction , tinged by humour and his smile , if it still was a thought contemptuous , had implied consent . 
He proceeded slowly back along the terrace in a tender glow and when he came to Greenside Church , he halted in a doubtful mind . 
On a seat on the hill above Greenside he sat for perhaps half an hour , looking down upon the lamps of Edinburgh , and up at the lamps of heaven . 
Wonderful were the resolves he formed beautiful and kindly were the vistas of future life that sped before him . 
He uttered to himself the name of Flora in so many touching and dramatic keys , that he became at length fairly melted with tenderness , and could have sung aloud . 
At that juncture a certain creasing in his greatcoat caught his ear . 
He put his hand into his pocket , pulled forth the envelope that held the money , and sat stupefied . 
The Calton Hill , about this period , had an ill name of nights and to be sitting there with four hundred pounds that did not belong to him was hardly wise . 
The envelope fell from his hands he stooped to get it , and at the same moment both men ran in and closed with him . 
Alan was rich , or would be so when he came of age . 
Close under the Calton Hill there runs a certain narrow avenue , part street , part by road . 
The head of it faces the doors of the prison its tail descends into the sunless slums of the Low Calton . 
On one hand it is overhung by the crags of the hill , on the other by an old graveyard . 
One of these was the house of Colette and at his door our ill starred John was presently beating for admittance . 
In an evil hour he satisfied the jealous inquiries of the contraband hotel keeper in an evil hour he penetrated into the somewhat unsavoury interior . 
He to help John ! The thing was impossible he couldn't help himself . 
'If you have a beast of a father , said he , 'I can tell you I have a brute of a trustee . 
But Alan was quite good natured . 
'All right , old fellow , said he . 
'Mos' respec'able man your father . 
And he introduced his friend to his companions as 'old Nicholson the what d'ye call um's son . 
John sat in dumb agony . 
Colette's foul walls and maculate table linen , and even down to Colette's villainous casters , seemed like objects in a nightmare . 
It was a sorrowful and a mightily sobered company that came forth again . 
The vague terror of public opinion weighed generally on them all but there were private and particular horrors on the minds of individuals . 
Alan stood in dread of his trustee , already sorely tried . 
they might have had quite as good a supper , and far better drink , than in the dangerous paradise from which they had been routed . 
There , over an almost tearful glass , they debated their position . 
Each explained he had the world to lose if the affair went on , and he appeared as a witness . 
Each , moreover , was in an odd state of destitution . 
was the very man who could step in to make good the deficit . 
One took a high hand he could not pay his share if it went to a trial , he should bolt he had always felt the English Bar to be his true sphere . 
Another branched out into touching details about his family , and was not listened to . 
John , in the midst of this disorderly competition of poverty and meanness , sat stunned , contemplating the mountain bulk of his misfortunes . 
The rooks were awake in Randolph Crescent but the windows looked down , discreetly blinded , on the return of the prodigal . 
He put the gas out , and sat on a chair in the hall , waiting and counting the minutes , longing for any human countenance . 
The old gentleman looked up with that sour , inquisitive expression that came so near to smiling and was so different in effect . 
'This is a time when I do not like to be disturbed , he said . 
'I know that , returned John 'but I have I want I've made a dreadful mess of it , he broke out , and turned to the window . 
Mr. Nicholson sat silent for an appreciable time , while his unhappy son surveyed the poles in the back green , and a certain yellow cat that was perched upon the wall . 
Despair sat upon John as he gazed and he raged to think of the dreadful series of his misdeeds , and the essential innocence that lay behind them . 
'Robbed ? Be careful what you say , John ! 'I can't say anything else , sir I was just robbed of it , said John , in desperation , sullenly . 
'And where and when did this extraordinary event take place ? inquired the father . 
'On the Calton Hill about twelve last night . 
'The Calton Hill ? repeated Mr. Nicholson . 
'And what were you doing there at such a time of the night ? 'Nothing , sir , says John . 
Mr. Nicholson drew in his breath . 
'And how came the money in your hands at twelve last night ? he asked , sharply . 
'I neglected that piece of business , said John , anticipating comment and then in his own dialect 'I clean forgot all about it . 
'Well , said his father , 'it's a most extraordinary story . 
Have you communicated with the police ? 'I have , answered poor John , the blood leaping to his face . 
'They think they know the men that did it . 
'Your mother's watch , too ? asked Mr. Nicholson . 
'Oh , the watch is all right ! cried John . 
'At least , I mean I was coming to the watch the fact is , I am ashamed to say , I I had pawned the watch before . 
Here is the ticket they didn't find that the watch can be redeemed they don't sell pledges . 
'It was just a name . 
'An ALIAS , his father commented . 
'I do not think , said Mr. Nicholson , at last , 'that I am an ungenerous father . 
I have never grudged you money within reason , for any avowable purpose you had just to come to me and speak . 
And now I find that you have forgotten all decency and all natural feeling , and actually pawned pawned your mother's watch . 
You must have had some temptation I will do you the justice to suppose it was a strong one . 
What did you want with this money ? 'I would rather not tell you , sir , said John . 
'It will only make you angry . 
'I will not be fenced with , cried his father . 
'There must be an end of disingenuous answers . 
What did you want with this money ? 'To lend it to Houston , sir , says John . 
'I thought I had forbidden you to speak to that young man ? asked the father . 
'Yes , sir , said John 'but I only met him . 
'Where ? came the deadly question . 
And 'In a billiard room' was the damning answer . 
Thus , had John's single departure from the truth brought instant punishment . 
Once more Mr. Nicholson digested the vile tidings in silence , and when John stole a glance at his father's countenance , he was abashed to see the marks of suffering . 
'Well , said the old gentleman , at last , 'I cannot pretend not to be simply bowed down . 
Whether his father spoke , or whether he remained long in the room or at once departed , are points lost to history . 
With his father , the superlative degree returned infallibly . 
He knew it by every shrinking fibre in his body , he knew it by the sudden dizzy whirling of his brain , at the mere thought of that calamity . 
It was inhuman to go off to church , and leave a sinner in suspense , unpunished , unforgiven . 
And at the very touch of criticism , the paternal sanctity was lessened yet the paternal terror only grew and the two strands of feeling pushed him in the same direction . 
And suddenly there came upon him a mad fear lest his father should have locked him in . 
As he went , he struck upon a drawer left open in the business table . 
You will never hear of me again . 
I did not mean any harm by anything , so I hope you will try and forgive me . 
I wish you would say good bye to Alexander and Maria , but not if you don't want to . 
I could not wait to see you , really . 
Please try to forgive me . 
Your affectionate son , JOHN NICHOLSON . 
They were singing within and by a strange chance , the tune was 'St . 
George's , Edinburgh , which bears the name , and was first sung in the choir of that church . 
How he had come to deserve this wealth , any more than how he had formerly earned disgrace at home , was a problem beyond the reach of his philosophy . 
It was true that he had been industrious at the bank , but no more so than the cashier , who had seven small children and was visibly sinking in decline . 
The concealment , innocent as it seems , was the first step in the second tragicomedy of John's existence . 
Meanwhile , he had never written home . 
And this delay , which is indefensible , was his second step into the snares of fortune . 
Ten years had passed , and John was drawing near to thirty . 
Inwardly , in spite of his gross body and highly masculine whiskers , he was more like a maiden lady than a man of twenty nine . 
The fancy thrilled him with desire , and in one moment he decided he would go . 
saddled with a considerable sum of other people's . 
To this unfortunate John intrusted a letter with an inclosure of bonds , addressed to the bank manager . 
That same night the clerk entered upon a bout of drunkenness so consistent as to surprise even his intimate acquaintance . 
'Macewen , said the old man , 'this must be hushed up , if possible . 
If I give you a cheek for this sum , about which they are certain , could you take it on yourself to let the matter rest ? 'I will , said Macewen . 
'I will take the risk of it . 
'You understand , resumed Mr. Nicholson , speaking precisely , but with ashen lips , 'I do this for my family , not for that unhappy young man . 
If it should turn out that these suspicions are correct , and he has embezzled large sums , he must lie on his bed as he has made it . 
Meanwhile he walked familiar streets , merry reminiscences crowding round him , sad ones also , both with the same surprising pathos . 
His first visit was for Houston , who had a house on Regent Terrace , kept for him in old days by an aunt . 
upon the chain , and a voice asked him from within what he wanted . 
'I want Mr. Houston Mr. Alan Houston , said he . 
'And who are ye ? said the voice . 
'This is most extraordinary , thought John and then aloud he told his name . 
'No' young Mr. John ? cried the voice , with a sudden increase of Scotch accent , testifying to a friendlier feeling . 
'The very same , said John . 
And the old butler removed his defences , remarking only 'I thocht ye were that man . 
Only , the door was scarce closed again , before he regretted that he had not asked about 'that man . 
But here he was on Regent Terrace there was nothing to prevent him going round the end of the hill , and looking from without on the Mackenzies' house . 
Proudfoot' the lower one was more explicit , and informed the passer by that here was likewise the abode of 'Mr . 
J. A. Dunlop Proudfoot , Advocate . 
He remembered a Proudfoot he had seen at school , not known a little , whey faced urchin , the despicable member of some lower class . 
In the face of these changes , it were impious to doubt fortune's kindness . 
The time began to draw near when his father would have returned from the office , and it would be the prodigal's cue to enter . 
He strolled westward by Albany Street , facing the sunset embers , pleased , he knew not why , to move in that cold air and indigo twilight , starred with street lamps . 
But there was one more disenchantment waiting him by the way . 
'I think your name must be Nicholson , said the stranger . 
'Great Scott ! he cried , 'Beatson ! and shook hands with warmth . 
It scarce seemed he was repaid in kind . 
'So you're home again ? said Beatson . 
'Where have you been all this long time ? 'In the States , said John 'California . 
I've made my pile though and it suddenly struck me it would be a noble scheme to come home for Christmas . 
'I see , said Beatson . 
'Well , I hope we'll see something of you now you're here . 
'Oh , I guess so , said John , a little frozen . 
'Well , ta ta , concluded Beatson , and he shook hands again and went . 
This was a cruel first experience . 
It was idle to blink facts here was John home again , and Beatson Old Beatson did not care a rush . 
It was like a vision of the past . 
At the accustomed hour , too , the bell had sounded thrice to call the family to worship . 
He stepped into the lighted hall , shut the door softly behind him , and stood there fixed in wonder . 
No surprise of strangeness could equal the surprise of that complete familiarity . 
He took off his hat , and moved mechanically toward the stand and there he found a small change that was a great one to him . 
He moved at once , his hat still in his hand , to the door of his father's room , opened it , and entered . 
I have come back to ask your forgiveness , and to stay Christmas with you and the children . 
'Keep your money , said the father , 'and go ! 'Father ! cried John 'for God's sake don't receive me this way . 
I've come for 'Understand me , interrupted Mr. Nicholson 'you are no son of mine and in the sight of God , I wash my hands of you . 
His misery , if it were not progressive , yet tended in no way to diminish for in proportion as grief and indignation abated , fear began to take their place . 
At first , his father's menacing words lay by in some safe drawer of memory , biding their hour . 
he pledged his own virtues in a glass perhaps the fourth since his dismissal . 
Of that he knew nothing , keeping no account of what he did or where he went and in the general crashing hurry of his nerves , unconscious of the approach of intoxication . 
Indeed , it is a question whether he were really growing intoxicated , or whether at first the spirits did not even sober him . 
For it was even as he drained this last glass that his father's ambiguous and menacing words popping from their hiding place in memory startled him like a hand laid upon his shoulder . 
'Crimes , hunted , the gallows . 
He turned , not merely to the man as a friend , but to his house as a place of refuge . 
into the bright lights of the approach , redeemed his portmanteau from the cloak room , and was soon whirling in a cab along the Glasgow Road . 
'I have been drinking , he discovered 'I must go straight to bed , and sleep . 
And he thanked Heaven for the drowsiness that came upon his mind in waves . 
, stood , indeed , very solitary . 
The lamp of the cab threw a gleam upon the door and the not brilliant handle of the bell . 
'Shall I ring for ye ? said the cabman , who had descended from his perch , and was slapping his chest , for the night was bitter . 
'I wish you would , said John , putting his hand to his brow in one of his accesses of giddiness . 
And that's disinterested , mind ye , for my stables are in the Glesgie Road . 
'The servants must hear , said John . 
'Hout ! said the driver . 
'He keeps no servants here , man . 
They're a' in the town house I drive him often it's just a kind of a hermitage , this . 
'Give me the bell , said John and he plucked at it like a man desperate . 
I'm just come home , and I've come to stay with you . 
There was no reply for a moment , and then the door was opened . 
'Get the portmanteau down , said John to the driver . 
'Do nothing of the kind , said Alan and then to John , 'Come in here a moment . 
I want to speak to you . 
John entered the garden , and the door was closed behind him . 
All beyond was inscrutable and John's dizzy brain rocked with the shadow . 
Yet even so , it struck him that Alan was pale , and his voice , when he spoke , unnatural . 
'What brings you here to night ? he began . 
'I don't want , God knows , to seem unfriendly but I cannot take you in , Nicholson I cannot do it . 
'Murder , I believe , says John . 
'Murder ! repeated Alan , and passed his hand over his eyes . 
'What was that you were saying ? he asked again . 
'That they were down on me , said John . 
'Hush ! said Alan , with his head on one side and then , 'Did you hear nothing ? he asked . 
'No , said John , thrilling , he knew not why , with communicated terror . 
I'll go right away to bed if you have anything to do . 
I seem to have been drinking I was that knocked over . 
I wouldn't turn you away , Alan , if you were down on your luck . 
'Neither will you , then . 
Come and let's get your portmanteau . 
It seemed to John as though Alan attached importance to this departure of the cab and John , who was in no state to criticise , shared profoundly in the feeling . 
'Why are we standing here ? asked John . 
'Eh ? said Alan , blankly . 
'Why , man , you don't seem yourself , said the other . 
'No , I'm not myself , said Alan and he sat down on the portmanteau and put his face in his hands . 
Even in his bemused intelligence , wonder began to awake . 
'I say , let's come on to the house , he said at last . 
'Yes , let's come on to the house , repeated Alan . 
And he rose at once , reshouldered the portmanteau , and taking the candle in his other hand , moved forward to the Lodge . 
This was a long , low building , smothered in creepers and now , except for some chinks of light between the dining room shutters , it was plunged in darkness and silence . 
In the hall Alan lighted another candle , gave it to John , and opened the door of a bedroom . 
'Here , said he 'go to bed . 
Don't mind me , John . 
You'll be sorry for me when you know . 
'Wait a bit , returned John 'I've got so cold with all that standing about . 
Let's go into the dining room a minute . 
Just one glass to warm me , Alan . 
On the table in the hall stood a glass , and a bottle with a whisky label on a tray . 
It was plain the bottle had been just opened , for the cork and corkscrew lay beside it . 
'Take that , said Alan , passing John the whisky , and then with a certain roughness pushed his friend into the bedroom , and closed the door behind him . 
John stood amazed then he shook the bottle , and , to his further wonder , found it partly empty . 
Three or four glasses were gone . 
He took the grog out , and felt hazier , but warmer . 
It was hard work opening the portmanteau and finding his night things and before he was undressed , the cold had struck home to him once more . 
'Well , said he 'just a drop more . 
There's no sense in getting ill with all this other trouble . 
And presently dreamless slumber buried him . 
When John awoke it was day . 
The low winter sun was already in the heavens , but his watch had stopped , and it was impossible to tell the hour exactly . 
Ten , he guessed it , and made haste to dress , dismal reflections crowding on his mind . 
But it was less from terror than from regret that he now suffered and with his regret there were mingled cutting pangs of penitence . 
There had fallen upon him a blow , cruel , indeed , but yet only the punishment of old misdoing and he had rebelled and plunged into fresh sin . 
The rod had been used to chasten , and he had bit the chastening fingers . 
His father was right John had justified him John was no guest for decent people's houses , and no fit associate for decent people's children . 
And had a broader hint been needed , there was the case of his old friend . 
John was no drunkard , though he could at times exceed and the picture of Houston drinking neat spirits at his hall table struck him with something like disgust . 
He hung back from meeting his old friend . 
The door stood open on the garden doubtless , Alan had stepped forth and John did as he supposed his friend had done . 
Here were Christmas weather and Christmas morning duly met , to the delight of children . 
As the sound of his voice died away , he was aware of the greatness of the silence that environed him . 
About the house the silence seemed to deepen strangely . 
by which a house announces and betrays its human lodgers . 
He made the circuit of the bedroom quarters . 
All , until he came to Alan's chamber , were locked from without , and bore the marks of a prolonged disuse . 
But Alan's was a room in commission , filled with clothes , knickknacks , letters , books , and the conveniences of a solitary man . 
The fire had been lighted but it had long ago burned out , and the ashes were stone cold . 
The bed had been made , but it had not been slept in . 
Worse and worse , then Alan must have fallen where he sat , and now sprawled brutishly , no doubt , upon the dining room floor . 
Suddenly he tripped and fell his length over a prostrate body . 
It was what he had looked for , yet it shocked him and he marvelled that so rough an impact should not have kicked a groan out of the drunkard . 
Men had killed themselves ere now in such excesses , a dreary and degraded end that made John shudder . 
Even by that light the room had a discomfortable air . 
Behind the table lay the drunkard , still unaroused , only one foot visible to John . 
To and fro walked John before the door . 
The extreme sharpness of the air acted on his nerves like an astringent , and braced them swiftly . 
He grasped his forehead , and staring on one spot of gravel , pieced together what he knew and what he suspected . 
And now he was gone , now he had basely fled and to all his perplexities and dangers John stood heir . 
'Let me think let me think , he said , aloud , impatiently , even pleadingly , as if to some merciless interrupter . 
In the turmoil of his wits , a thousand hints and hopes and threats and terrors dinning continuously in his ears , he was like one plunged in the hubbub of a crowd . 
It was plain he must stay no longer where he was , for here was a new Judicial Error in the very making . 
Let him go back to the beginning . 
It was plain he must stay no longer where he was . 
He cleansed his finger in the snow , returned into the house , drew near with hushed footsteps to the dining room door , and shut and locked it . 
Then he breathed a little freer , for here at least was an oaken barrier between himself and what he feared . 
But there was to be no remission of the strokes of fate . 
The thing locked with a spring once the door was closed , the bolt shut of itself and without a key , there was no means of entering from without . 
To the last , as the least desperate , his mind inclined but he must first insure himself that he was unobserved . 
He peered out , and down the long road it lay dead empty . 
He went to the corner of the by road that comes by way of Dean there also not a passenger was stirring . 
Half way down a gate opened , and a troop of Christmas children sallied forth in the most cheerful humour , followed more soberly by a smiling mother . 
'And this is Christmas day ! thought John and could have laughed aloud in tragic bitterness of heart . 
Yet when the vehicle drew up he was sensibly chagrined to recognise the port wine cabman of the night before . 
'Here , he could not but reflect , 'here is another link in the Judicial Error . 
visibly 'on the randan' the night before . 
'And ye look dreidful bad the day , sir , I must say that , he continued . 
John had listened with a sick heart . 
'I'll give you a dram when we've got through , said he , affecting a sprightliness which sat on him most unhandsomely , 'and not a drop till then . 
Business first , and pleasure afterward . 
With this promise the jarvey was prevailed upon to clamber to his place and drive , with hideous deliberation , to the door of the Lodge . 
There were no signs as yet of any public emotion only , two men stood not far off in talk , and their presence , seen from afar , set John's pulses buzzing . 
But the cabman proved a thorn in the flesh . 
Great trouble with his tenants , they tell me . 
I've driven the fam'ly for years . 
I drove a cab at his father's waddin' . 
What'll your name be ? I should ken your face . 
Waverley Brig ? Are ye for away ? So the friendly toper prated and questioned and kept John's heart in a flutter . 
At the station his spirits rose again another stage of his escape was fortunately ended he began to spy blue water . 
There was nothing there ! Oh yes this time he was to blame . 
He should have remembered , and when he deserted his blood stained pantaloons , he should not have deserted along with them his purse . 
But his reflections , brief as they had appeared , must have occupied him longer than he supposed , and there was the man already returning with the receipt . 
And then he remembered the porter , who stood suggestively attentive , words of gratitude hanging on his lips . 
John hunted right and left he found a coin prayed God that it was a sovereign drew it out , beheld a halfpenny , and offered it to the porter . 
'It's only a halfpenny ! he said , startled out of railway decency . 
'I know that , said John , piteously . 
And here the porter recovered the dignity of man . 
'Thank you , sir , said he , and would have returned the base gratuity . 
'Well , said the driver , 'and what then ? I would rather give a man a shillin' on a day like this than put him off with a derision like a bawbee . 
I'm surprised at the like of you , Mr. Baigrey ! 'My name is not Baigrey ! broke out John , in mere childish temper and distress . 
'Ye told me it was yoursel' , said the cabman . 
'I know I did and what the devil right had you to ask ? cried the unhappy one . 
'Oh , very well , said the driver . 
Some happily surviving element of manhood moved him to the former . 
'Let us have no more of this , said he , his foot once more upon the step . 
'Go back to where we came from . 
But here again the fatal jarvey out manoeuvred him . 
'Back to the Ludge ? cried he , in shrill tones of protest . 
'Drive on at once ! roared John , and slammed the door behind him , so that the crazy chariot rocked and jingled . 
I would not be thought to put the pair in competition John's case was out of all parallel . 
As he drove , therefore , he counted his wrongs , and thirsted for sympathy and drink . 
Queensferry Street lies something off the direct road to Murrayfield . 
But then there is the hilly cross road that passes by the valley of the Leith and the Dean Cemetery and Queensferry Street is on the way to that . 
John , meanwhile , sat collapsed , his chin sunk upon his chest , his mind in abeyance . 
At that he started fully awake , and stared at the shop fronts . 
And then he woke again , terror jarring through his vitals . 
This was no time to be idle he must be up and doing , he must think . 
Once at the end of this ridiculous cruise , once at the Lodge door , there would be nothing for it but to turn the cab and trundle back again . 
Oh that cab ! his soul yearned and burned , and his bowels sounded to be rid of it . 
He forgot all other cares . 
He must first quit himself of this ill smelling vehicle and of the human beast that guided it first do that do that , at least do that at once . 
And just then the cab suddenly stopped , and there was his persecutor rapping on the front glass . 
John let it down , and beheld the port wine countenance inflamed with intellectual triumph . 
'I ken wha ye are ! cried the husky voice . 
I drove ye to Hermiston to a Christmas party , and ye came back on the box , and I let ye drive . 
John knew the man they had been even friends . 
'Great Scott ! and so you did , he cried , as if in a transport of delight , his voice sounding false in his own ears . 
'Well , if that's so , I've something to say to you . 
I'll just get out , I guess . 
The features of that face were hard to read , drink had so swollen them , drink had so painted them , in tints that varied from brick red to mulberry . 
He sat there a monument of gluttonous desire . 
He had opened his lips , but he stood there and uttered nought . 
He sounded the well of his courage , and it was dry . 
He groped in his treasury of words , and it was vacant . 
The driver was leaning over the wall , brandishing his whip , his face empurpled , roaring like a bull . 
that he had lost the chance . 
No watch would pacify the man's resentment now he would cry for vengeance also . 
John would be had under the eye of the police his tale would be unfolded , his secret plumbed , his destiny would close on him at last , and for ever . 
He remembered the thick coverts round the quarry hole pond , an untrodden corner of the world where he might surely find concealment till the night should fall . 
He looked on a while himself . 
'Poor creature , it's little she knows ! he sighed . 
A wind had sprung up out of the north west it was cruel keen , it dried him like a fire , and racked his finger joints . 
It brought clouds , too pale , swift , hurrying clouds , that blotted heaven and shed gloom upon the earth . 
He scrambled up among the hazelled rubbish heaps that surround the caldron of the quarry , and lay flat upon the stones . 
He saw the spiral of the descending roadway , the steep crags , the clinging bushes , the peppering of snow wreaths , and far down in the bottom , the diminished crane . 
Here , no doubt , was a way to end it . 
But it somehow did not take his fancy . 
Suppose he pawned his watch ? But no , on Christmas day this was Christmas day ! the pawnshop would be closed . 
There was nothing for it but to starve and after all , what mattered it ? That also was a door of exit . 
He crept close among the bushes , the wind playing round him like a lash his clothes seemed thin as paper , his joints burned , his skin curdled on his bones . 
This favourite preoccupation now awoke . 
becoming swiftly hooded with snow . 
It came thickly now , a 'Feeding Storm' and while he yet stood blinking at the lamp , his feet were buried . 
Another blank , and he was thrusting his pass key into the door lock of his father's house . 
Whether crouched on the cold stones or wandering in the fields among the snow , was more than he could tell but hours had passed . 
At so late an hour , all this was strange the lights should have been out , the doors locked , the good folk safe in bed . 
He marvelled at the irregularity , leaning on the hall table and marvelled to himself there and thawed and grew once more hungry , in the warmer air of the house . 
Oh , well , then he was insane , as he had long believed . 
As he appeared in the doorway , the nun rose , gave a low cry , and stood staring . 
'Why , it's John ! cried the nun . 
'I dare say I'm mad , said John , unconsciously following King Lear 'but , upon my word , I do believe you're Flora . 
'Of course I am , replied she . 
What he said was , 'Then why are you a nun ? 'Such nonsense ! said Flora . 
'I'm a sick nurse and I am here nursing your sister , with whom , between you and me , there is precious little the matter . 
But that is not the question . 
The point is How do you come here ? and are you not ashamed to show yourself ? 'Flora , said John , sepulchrally , 'I haven't eaten anything for three days . 
Or , at least , I don't know what day it is but I guess I'm starving . 
'You unhappy man ! she cried . 
'Here , sit down and eat my supper and I'll just run upstairs and see my patient not but what I doubt she's fast asleep , for Maria is a MALADE IMAGINAIRE . 
With this specimen of the French , not of Stratford atte Bowe , but of a finishing establishment in Moray Place , she left John alone in his father's sanctum . 
Then he sat torpid , and pleased , and bewildered his misfortunes were then half forgotten his mind considering , not without regret , this unsentimental return to his old love . 
He was thus engaged , when that bustling woman noiselessly re entered . 
'Have you eaten ? said she . 
'Then tell me all about it . 
a pitiful story but Flora heard it with compressed lips . 
And women , such as she , are very hard on the imperfect man . 
'Very well , said she , when he had done 'then down upon your knees at once , and beg God's forgiveness . 
And when he rose again from that becoming exercise , he first eyed the face of his old love doubtfully , and then , taking heart , uttered his protest . 
'I must say , Flora , said he , 'in all this business , I can see very little fault of mine . 
'If you had written home , replied the lady , 'there would have been none of it . 
If you had even gone to Murrayfield reasonably sober , you would never have slept there , and the worst would not have happened . 
Besides , the whole thing began years ago . 
You got into trouble , and when your father , honest man , was disappointed , you took the pet , or got afraid , and ran away from punishment . 
Well , you've had your own way of it , John , and I don't suppose you like it . 
'I sometimes fancy I'm not much better than a fool , sighed John . 
'My dear John , said she , 'not much ! He looked at her , and his eye fell . 
was not the true relation of the sexes . 
He steeled his heart against this sick nurse . 
'And how do you come to be here ? he asked . 
'There's no accounting for taste , said she . 
'And , indeed , it's a mere farce my being here for poor Maria , she continued 'but your father takes her ailments to heart , and I cannot always be refusing him . 
We are great friends , your father and I he was very kind to me long ago ten years ago . 
A strange stir came in John's heart . 
A voice told him this was Flora , after all told him so quietly , yet with a thrill of singing . 
'And you never married ? said he . 
'No , John I never married , she replied . 
The hall clock striking two recalled them to the sense of time . 
'And now , said she , 'you have been fed and warmed , and I have heard your story , and now it's high time to call your brother . 
'Oh ! cried John , chap fallen 'do you think that absolutely necessary ? 'I can't keep you here I am a stranger , said she . 
'Do you want to run away again ? I thought you had enough of that . 
He bowed his head under the reproof . 
She despised him , he reflected , as he sat once more alone a monstrous thing for a woman to despise a man and strangest of all , she seemed to like him . 
'So this is you ? he said , at length . 
'Yes , Alick , it's me it's John , replied the elder brother , feebly . 
'And how did you get in here ? inquired the younger . 
'Oh , I had my pass key , says John . 
'The deuce you had ! said Alexander . 
'Ah , you lived in a better world ! There are no pass keys going now . 
'Well , father was always averse to them , sighed John . 
And the conversation then broke down , and the brothers looked askance at one another in silence . 
'Well , and what the devil are we to do ? said Alexander . 
'I suppose if the authorities got wind of you , you would be taken up ? 'It depends on whether they've found the body or not , returned John . 
'And then there's that cabman , to be sure ! 'Oh , bother the body ! said Alexander . 
'I mean about the other thing . 
'Is that what my father spoke about ? asked John . 
'I don't even know what it is . 
'About your robbing your bank in California , of course , replied Alexander . 
It was plain , from Flora's face , that this was the first she had heard of it it was plainer still , from John's , that he was innocent . 
'I rob my bank ! My God ! Flora , this is too much even you must allow that . 
'Meaning you didn't ? asked Alexander . 
So Macewen said , and I wish you would be careful how you answer . 
I may tell you also , that your father paid the three hundred on the spot . 
'Three hundred ? repeated John . 
'Three hundred pounds , you mean ? That's fifteen hundred dollars . 
Why , then , it's Kirkman ! he broke out . 
'Thank Heaven ! I can explain all that . 
I gave them to Kirkman to pay for me the night before I left fifteen hundred dollars , and a letter to the manager . 
What do they suppose I would steal fifteen hundred dollars for ? I'm rich I struck it rich in stocks . 
It's the silliest stuff I ever heard of . 
All that's needful is to cable to the manager Kirkman has the fifteen hundred find Kirkman . 
He was a fellow clerk of mine , and a hard case but to do him justice , I didn't think he was as hard as this . 
'And what do you say to that , Alick ? asked Flora . 
'I say the cablegram shall go to night ! cried Alexander , with energy . 
If this can be cleared away and upon my word I do believe it can we shall all be able to hold up our heads again . 
Here , you John , you stick down the address of your bank manager . 
You , Flora , you can pack John into my bed , for which I have no further use to night . 
As for me , I am off to the post office , and thence to the High Street about the dead body . 
'Well , resumed Alexander , 'I'll call round at their place before I come back , and pay your shot for you . 
In that way , before breakfast time , you'll be as good as new . 
'But there's one thing , said the latter , 'cablegrams are dear and I dare say you remember enough of the governor to guess the state of my finances . 
'The trouble is , said John , 'that all my stamps are in that beastly house . 
'All your what ? asked Alexander . 
'Stamps money , explained John . 
'It's an American expression I'm afraid I contracted one or two . 
'I have some , said Flora . 
'I have a pound note upstairs . 
'I would not apply to him yet I do not think that can be wise , objected Flora . 
'You have a very imperfect idea of my resources , and not at all of my effrontery , replied Alexander . 
He put John from his way , chose a stout knife among the supper things , and with surprising quickness broke into his father's drawer . 
'There's nothing easier when you come to try , he observed , pocketing the money . 
'I wish you had not done that , said Flora . 
'You will never hear the last of it . 
'Oh , I don't know , returned the young man 'the governor is human after all . 
And now , John , let me see your famous pass key . 
Get into bed , and don't move for any one till I come back . 
They won't mind you not answering when they knock I generally don't myself . 
CHAPTER IX IN WHICH MR . 
NICHOLSON ACCEPTS THE PRINCIPLE OF AN ALLOWANCE IN spite of the horrors of the day and the tea drinking of the night , John slept the sleep of infancy . 
He was awakened by the maid , as it might have been ten years ago , tapping at the door . 
The winter sunrise was painting the east and as the window was to the back of the house , it shone into the room with many strange colours of refracted light . 
Without , the houses were all cleanly roofed with snow the garden walls were coped with it a foot in height the greens lay glittering . 
Yet strange as snow had grown to John during his years upon the Bay of San Francisco , it was what he saw within that most affected him . 
appeared a marvel of proficiency . 
John let him in , and jumped back into the warm bed . 
'Well , John , said Alexander , 'the cablegram is sent in your name , and twenty words of answer paid . 
I have been to the cab office and paid your cab , even saw the old gentleman himself , and properly apologised . 
He was mighty placable , and indicated his belief you had been drinking . 
Then I knocked up old Macewen out of bed , and explained affairs to him as he sat and shivered in a dressing gown . 
And before that I had been to the High Street , where they have heard nothing of your dead body , so that I incline to the idea that you dreamed it . 
'Catch me ! said John . 
'I'll be turned out again , you'll see , said John , dismally . 
'I don't imagine so , returned the other 'not if you do what Flora and I have arranged and your business now is to dress , and lose no time about it . 
Is your watch right ? Well , you have a quarter of an hour . 
By five minutes before the half hour you must be at table , in your old seat , under Uncle Duthie's picture . 
Flora will be there to keep you countenance and we shall see what we shall see . 
'Wouldn't it be wiser for me to stay in bed ? said John . 
He had spoken warmly , but the truth is , his heart was somewhat troubled . 
And as he hung over the balusters , watching for his father to appear , he had hard ado to keep himself braced for the encounter that must follow . 
'If he takes it well , I shall be lucky , he reflected . 
'If he takes it ill , why it'll be a herring across John's tracks , and perhaps all for the best . 
He's a confounded muff , this brother of mine , but he seems a decent soul . 
At that stage a door opened below with a certain emphasis , and Mr. Nicholson was seen solemnly to descend the stairs , and pass into his own apartment . 
Alexander followed , quaking inwardly , but with a steady face . 
He knocked , was bidden to enter , and found his father standing in front of the forced drawer , to which he pointed as he spoke . 
'You were afraid I would notice it ? repeated Mr. Nicholson . 
'And , pray , what may that mean ? 'That I was a thief , sir , returned Alexander . 
'I took all the money in case the servants should get hold of it and here is the change , and a note of my expenditure . 
Thanks to my quickness we may hear to night . 
There appears to be no doubt , sir , that John has been abominably used . 
'When did this take place ? asked the father . 
'Last night , sir , after you were asleep , was the reply . 
'It's most extraordinary , said Mr. Nicholson . 
'Do you mean to say you have been out all night ? 'All night , as you say , sir . 
I have been to the telegraph and the police office , and Mr. Macewen's . 
Oh , I had my hands full , said Alexander . 
'Very irregular , said the father . 
'You think of no one but yourself . 
'I do not see that I have much to gain in bringing back my elder brother , returned Alexander , shrewdly . 
The answer pleased the old man he smiled . 
'Well , well , I will go into this after breakfast , said he . 
'I'm sorry about the table , said the son . 
'The table is a small matter I think nothing of that , said the father . 
'It's another example , continued the son , 'of the awkwardness of a man having no money of his own . 
If I had a proper allowance , like other fellows of my age , this would have been quite unnecessary . 
'A proper allowance ! repeated his father , in tones of blighting sarcasm , for the expression was not new to him . 
'I have never grudged you money for any proper purpose . 
'No doubt , no doubt , said Alexander , 'but then you see you aren't always on the spot to have the thing explained to you . 
Last night , for instance 'You could have wakened me last night , interrupted his father . 
'Was it not some similar affair that first got John into a mess ? asked the son , skilfully evading the point . 
But the father was not less adroit . 
'And pray , sir , how did you come and go out of the house ? he asked . 
'I forgot to lock the door , it seems , replied Alexander . 
'I have had cause to complain of that too often , said Mr. Nicholson . 
'But still I do not understand . 
Did you keep the servants up ? 'I propose to go into all that at length after breakfast , returned Alexander . 
'There is the half hour going we must not keep Miss Mackenzie waiting . 
And greatly daring , he opened the door . 
But the truth is , the very mass of his son's delinquencies daunted the old gentleman . 
The return of the change , which the old gentleman still carried in his hand , had been a feature of imposing impudence it had dealt him a staggering blow . 
In view of all these surprises and reminders , and of his son's composed and masterful demeanour , there began to creep on Mr. Nicholson a sickly misgiving . 
He seemed beyond his depth if he did or said anything , he might come to regret it . 
The young man , besides , as he had pointed out himself , was playing a generous part . 
And if wrong had been done and done to one who was , after , and in spite of , all , a Nicholson it should certainly be righted . 
All things considered , monstrous as it was to be cut short in his inquiries , the old gentleman submitted , pocketed the change , and followed his son into the dining room . 
The strange thing was that he was pleased to be afraid of him . 
He was proud of his son he might be proud of him the boy had character and grit , and knew what he was doing . 
These were his reflections as he turned the corner of the dining room door . 
'Good morning , father , said he . 
Of the contention of feeling that ran high in Mr. Nicholson's starched bosom , no outward sign was visible nor did he delay long to make a choice of conduct . 
'Hum ! said Mr. Nicholson , and put his hand , limp and dead , into John's . 
But presently Flora came to the rescue . 
She slid into the silence with a technicality , asking if John still took his old inordinate amount of sugar . 
At length even he contributed a question and before the meal was at an end all four were talking even freely . 
'John , said he , 'of course you will stay here . 
Be very careful not to excite Maria , if Miss Mackenzie thinks it desirable that you should see her . 
Alexander , I wish to speak with you alone . 
And , my fine fellow , you may consider yourself in luck ! he added , with a smile . 
'Thank you , said Alexander . 
Before noon a detective had restored to John his money , and brought news , sad enough in truth , but perhaps the least sad possible . 
Alan had been found in his own house in Regent Terrace , under care of the terrified butler . 
He was quite mad , and instead of going to prison , had gone to Morningside Asylum . 
When Mr. Nicholson returned from dinner they were able to put a despatch into his hands 'John V. Nicholson , Randolph Crescent , Edinburgh . 
Kirkham has disappeared police looking for him . 
Having had this explained to him , the old gentleman took down the cellar key and departed for two bottles of the port . 
Ere they departed , the family was welded once more into a fair semblance of unity . 
Durie posted on the hearthrug in the guise of Hymen's priest . 
'Oh yes ! said she 'I only allow Mr. Nicholson four cigars a day . 
Three he smokes at fixed times after a meal , you know , my dear and the fourth he can take when he likes with any friend . 
Sometimes there would be more but blow high , blow low , come rain or snow or frost , we four would be each planted in his own particular arm chair . 
Fettes was an old drunken Scotchman , a man of education obviously , and a man of some property , since he lived in idleness . 
He had come to Debenham years ago , while still young , and by a mere continuance of living had grown to be an adopted townsman . 
His blue camlet cloak was a local antiquity , like the church spire . 
His place in the parlour at the George , his absence from church , his old , crapulous , disreputable vices , were all things of course in Debenham . 
He had some vague Radical opinions and some fleeting infidelities , which he would now and again set forth and emphasise with tottering slaps upon the table . 
It was the first time that such a thing had happened in Debenham , for the railway was but newly open , and we were all proportionately moved by the occurrence . 
'He's come , said the landlord , after he had filled and lighted his pipe . 
'He ? said I. 'Who ? not the doctor ? 'Himself , replied our host . 
'What is his name ? 'Doctor Macfarlane , said the landlord . 
'Yes , said the landlord , 'that's his name , Doctor Wolfe Macfarlane . 
Fettes became instantly sober his eyes awoke , his voice became clear , loud , and steady , his language forcible and earnest . 
We were all startled by the transformation , as if a man had risen from the dead . 
'I beg your pardon , he said , 'I am afraid I have not been paying much attention to your talk . 
'Do you know him , Doctor ? asked the undertaker , with a gasp . 
'God forbid ! was the reply . 
'And yet the name is a strange one it were too much to fancy two . 
'He is older , though years older . 
But , with a slap upon the table , 'it's the rum you see in my face rum and sin . 
This man , perhaps , may have an easy conscience and a good digestion . 
Conscience ! Hear me speak . 
You would think I was some good , old , decent Christian , would you not ? But no , not I I never canted . 
'If you know this doctor , I ventured to remark , after a somewhat awful pause , 'I should gather that you do not share the landlord's good opinion . 
Fettes paid no regard to me . 
'Yes , he said , with sudden decision , 'I must see him face to face . 
There was another pause , and then a door was closed rather sharply on the first floor , and a step was heard upon the stair . 
'That's the doctor , cried the landlord . 
'Look sharp , and you can catch him . 
The George thus brightly advertised itself to passers by in the cold street . 
Fettes walked steadily to the spot , and we , who were hanging behind , beheld the two men meet , as one of them had phrased it , face to face . 
Macfarlane was alert and vigorous . 
His white hair set off his pale and placid , although energetic , countenance . 
He was richly dressed in the finest of broadcloth and the whitest of linen , with a great gold watch chain , and studs and spectacles of the same precious material . 
He wore a broad folded tie , white and speckled with lilac , and he carried on his arm a comfortable driving coat of fur . 
'Macfarlane ! he said somewhat loudly , more like a herald than a friend . 
The great doctor pulled up short on the fourth step , as though the familiarity of the address surprised and somewhat shocked his dignity . 
'Toddy Macfarlane ! repeated Fettes . 
The London man almost staggered . 
'Hush , hush ! exclaimed the doctor . 
'Hush , hush ! this meeting is so unexpected I can see you are unmanned . 
I hardly knew you , I confess , at first but I am overjoyed overjoyed to have this opportunity . 
We must do something for you , Fettes . 
I fear you are out at elbows but we must see to that for auld lang syne , as once we sang at suppers . 
'Money ! cried Fettes 'money from you ! The money that I had from you is lying where I cast it in the rain . 
Macfarlane had talked himself into some measure of superiority and confidence , but the uncommon energy of this refusal cast him back into his first confusion . 
A horrible , ugly look came and went across his almost venerable countenance . 
'My dear fellow , he said , 'be it as you please my last thought is to offend you . 
I would intrude on none . 
I will leave you my address , however 'I do not wish it I do not wish to know the roof that shelters you , interrupted the other . 
'I heard your name I feared it might be you I wished to know if , after all , there were a God I know now that there is none . 
It was plain that he hesitated before the thought of this humiliation . 
The presence of so many witnesses decided him at once to flee . 
He crouched together , brushing on the wainscot , and made a dart like a serpent , striking for the door . 
Before it had occurred to one of us to make a movement the fly was already rattling toward the station . 
The scene was over like a dream , but the dream had left proofs and traces of its passage . 
'God protect us , Mr. Fettes ! said the landlord , coming first into possession of his customary senses . 
'What in the universe is all this ? These are strange things you have been saying . 
Fettes turned toward us he looked us each in succession in the face . 
'See if you can hold your tongues , said he . 
'That man Macfarlane is not safe to cross those that have done so already have repented it too late . 
We sat late it was the latest session I have known in the old George . 
In his young days Fettes studied medicine in the schools of Edinburgh . 
He had talent of a kind , the talent that picks up swiftly what it hears and readily retails it for its own . 
He worked little at home but he was civil , attentive , and intelligent in the presence of his masters . 
There was , at that period , a certain extramural teacher of anatomy , whom I shall here designate by the letter K. His name was subsequently too well known . 
The man who bore it skulked through the streets of Edinburgh in disguise , while the mob that applauded at the execution of Burke called loudly for the blood of his employer . 
Mr. K was a BON VIVANT as well as an accomplished teacher he liked a sly illusion no less than a careful preparation . 
In both capacities Fettes enjoyed and deserved his notice , and by the second year of his attendance he held the half regular position of second demonstrator or sub assistant in his class . 
In this capacity the charge of the theatre and lecture room devolved in particular upon his shoulders . 
He would open the door to these men , since infamous throughout the land . 
He would help them with their tragic burden , pay them their sordid price , and remain alone , when they were gone , with the unfriendly relics of humanity . 
From such a scene he would return to snatch another hour or two of slumber , to repair the abuses of the night , and refresh himself for the labours of the day . 
Few lads could have been more insensible to the impressions of a life thus passed among the ensigns of mortality . 
His mind was closed against all general considerations . 
He was incapable of interest in the fate and fortunes of another , the slave of his own desires and low ambitions . 
Cold , light , and selfish in the last resort , he had that modicum of prudence , miscalled morality , which keeps a man from inconvenient drunkenness or punishable theft . 
He coveted , besides , a measure of consideration from his masters and his fellow pupils , and he had no desire to fail conspicuously in the external parts of life . 
Thus he made it his pleasure to gain some distinction in his studies , and day after day rendered unimpeachable eye service to his employer , Mr. K . 
For his day of work he indemnified himself by nights of roaring , blackguardly enjoyment and when that balance had been struck , the organ that he called his conscience declared itself content . 
The supply of subjects was a continual trouble to him as well as to his master . 
It was the policy of Mr. K to ask no questions in his dealings with the trade . 
'They bring the body , and we pay the price , he used to say , dwelling on the alliteration 'QUID PRO QUO . 
And , again , and somewhat profanely , 'Ask no questions , he would tell his assistants , 'for conscience' sake . 
There was no understanding that the subjects were provided by the crime of murder . 
Fettes , for instance , had often remarked to himself upon the singular freshness of the bodies . 
He understood his duty , in short , to have three branches to take what was brought , to pay the price , and to avert the eye from any evidence of crime . 
One November morning this policy of silence was put sharply to the test . 
The ghouls had come later than usual , and they seemed more than usually eager to be gone . 
Fettes , sick with sleep , lighted them upstairs . 
As he did so his eyes lighted on the dead face . 
He started he took two steps nearer , with the candle raised . 
'God Almighty ! he cried . 
'That is Jane Galbraith ! The men answered nothing , but they shuffled nearer the door . 
'I know her , I tell you , he continued . 
'She was alive and hearty yesterday . 
It's impossible she can be dead it's impossible you should have got this body fairly . 
'Sure , sir , you're mistaken entirely , said one of the men . 
But the other looked Fettes darkly in the eyes , and demanded the money on the spot . 
It was impossible to misconceive the threat or to exaggerate the danger . 
The lad's heart failed him . 
He stammered some excuses , counted out the sum , and saw his hateful visitors depart . 
No sooner were they gone than he hastened to confirm his doubts . 
By a dozen unquestionable marks he identified the girl he had jested with the day before . 
He saw , with horror , marks upon her body that might well betoken violence . 
A panic seized him , and he took refuge in his room . 
This was a young doctor , Wolfe Macfarlane , a high favourite among all the reckless students , clever , dissipated , and unscrupulous to the last degree . 
He had travelled and studied abroad . 
His manners were agreeable and a little forward . 
On that particular morning Macfarlane arrived somewhat earlier than his wont . 
Fettes heard him , and met him on the stairs , told him his story , and showed him the cause of his alarm . 
Macfarlane examined the marks on her body . 
'Yes , he said with a nod , 'it looks fishy . 
'Well , what should I do ? asked Fettes . 
'Do ? repeated the other . 
'Do you want to do anything ? Least said soonest mended , I should say . 
'Some one else might recognise her , objected Fettes . 
'She was as well known as the Castle Rock . 
'We'll hope not , said Macfarlane , 'and if anybody does well , you didn't , don't you see , and there's an end . 
The fact is , this has been going on too long . 
Stir up the mud , and you'll get K into the most unholy trouble you'll be in a shocking box yourself . 
So will I , if you come to that . 
I should like to know how any one of us would look , or what the devil we should have to say for ourselves , in any Christian witness box . 
For me , you know there's one thing certain that , practically speaking , all our subjects have been murdered . 
'Come now ! sneered the other . 
'As if you hadn't suspected it yourself ! 'Suspecting is one thing 'And proof another . 
Yes , I know and I'm as sorry as you are this should have come here , tapping the body with his cane . 
'The next best thing for me is not to recognise it and , he added coolly , 'I don't . 
You may , if you please . 
The question is , Why did he choose us two for his assistants ? And I answer , because he didn't want old wives . 
This was the tone of all others to affect the mind of a lad like Fettes . 
He agreed to imitate Macfarlane . 
The body of the unfortunate girl was duly dissected , and no one remarked or appeared to recognise her . 
One afternoon , when his day's work was over , Fettes dropped into a popular tavern and found Macfarlane sitting with a stranger . 
This was a small man , very pale and dark , with coal black eyes . 
This most offensive person took a fancy to Fettes on the spot , plied him with drinks , and honoured him with unusual confidences on his past career . 
If a tenth part of what he confessed were true , he was a very loathsome rogue and the lad's vanity was tickled by the attention of so experienced a man . 
'I'm a pretty bad fellow myself , the stranger remarked , 'but Macfarlane is the boy Toddy Macfarlane I call him . 
Toddy , order your friend another glass . 
Or it might be , 'Toddy , you jump up and shut the door . 
'Toddy hates me , he said again . 
'Oh yes , Toddy , you do ! 'Don't you call me that confounded name , growled Macfarlane . 
'Hear him ! Did you ever see the lads play knife ? He would like to do that all over my body , remarked the stranger . 
'We medicals have a better way than that , said Fettes . 
'When we dislike a dead friend of ours , we dissect him . 
Macfarlane looked up sharply , as though this jest were scarcely to his mind . 
It was late before they separated the man Gray was incapably drunk . 
Macfarlane , sobered by his fury , chewed the cud of the money he had been forced to squander and the slights he had been obliged to swallow . 
Fettes , with various liquors singing in his head , returned home with devious footsteps and a mind entirely in abeyance . 
Next day Macfarlane was absent from the class , and Fettes smiled to himself as he imagined him still squiring the intolerable Gray from tavern to tavern . 
As soon as the hour of liberty had struck he posted from place to place in quest of his last night's companions . 
He could find them , however , nowhere so returned early to his rooms , went early to bed , and slept the sleep of the just . 
At four in the morning he was awakened by the well known signal . 
'Have you been out alone ? How did you manage ? But Macfarlane silenced him roughly , bidding him turn to business . 
When they had got the body upstairs and laid it on the table , Macfarlane made at first as if he were going away . 
Then he paused and seemed to hesitate and then , 'You had better look at the face , said he , in tones of some constraint . 
'You had better , he repeated , as Fettes only stared at him in wonder . 
'But where , and how , and when did you come by it ? cried the other . 
'Look at the face , was the only answer . 
Fettes was staggered strange doubts assailed him . 
He looked from the young doctor to the body , and then back again . 
At last , with a start , he did as he was bidden . 
He had almost expected the sight that met his eyes , and yet the shock was cruel . 
It was a CRAS TIBI which re echoed in his soul , that two whom he had known should have come to lie upon these icy tables . 
Yet these were only secondary thoughts . 
His first concern regarded Wolfe . 
Unprepared for a challenge so momentous , he knew not how to look his comrade in the face . 
He durst not meet his eye , and he had neither words nor voice at his command . 
It was Macfarlane himself who made the first advance . 
He came up quietly behind and laid his hand gently but firmly on the other's shoulder . 
'Richardson , said he , 'may have the head . 
Now Richardson was a student who had long been anxious for that portion of the human subject to dissect . 
There was no answer , and the murderer resumed 'Talking of business , you must pay me your accounts , you see , must tally . 
Fettes found a voice , the ghost of his own 'Pay you ! he cried . 
'Pay you for that ? 'Why , yes , of course you must . 
By all means and on every possible account , you must , returned the other . 
'I dare not give it for nothing , you dare not take it for nothing it would compromise us both . 
This is another case like Jane Galbraith's . 
The more things are wrong the more we must act as if all were right . 
Where does old K keep his money ? 'There , answered Fettes hoarsely , pointing to a cupboard in the corner . 
'Give me the key , then , said the other , calmly , holding out his hand . 
There was an instant's hesitation , and the die was cast . 
Macfarlane could not suppress a nervous twitch , the infinitesimal mark of an immense relief , as he felt the key between his fingers . 
'Now , look here , he said , 'there is the payment made first proof of your good faith first step to your security . 
You have now to clinch it by a second . 
Enter the payment in your book , and then you for your part may defy the devil . 
The next few seconds were for Fettes an agony of thought but in balancing his terrors it was the most immediate that triumphed . 
Any future difficulty seemed almost welcome if he could avoid a present quarrel with Macfarlane . 
He set down the candle which he had been carrying all this time , and with a steady hand entered the date , the nature , and the amount of the transaction . 
'And now , said Macfarlane , 'it's only fair that you should pocket the lucre . 
I've had my share already . 
No treating , no purchase of expensive class books , no squaring of old debts borrow , don't lend . 
'Macfarlane , began Fettes , still somewhat hoarsely , 'I have put my neck in a halter to oblige you . 
'To oblige me ? cried Wolfe . 
'Oh , come ! You did , as near as I can see the matter , what you downright had to do in self defence . 
Suppose I got into trouble , where would you be ? This second little matter flows clearly from the first . 
Mr. Gray is the continuation of Miss Galbraith . 
You can't begin and then stop . 
If you begin , you must keep on beginning that's the truth . 
No rest for the wicked . 
A horrible sense of blackness and the treachery of fate seized hold upon the soul of the unhappy student . 
You're staggered at the first . 
But look at K ! My dear fellow , you're clever , you have pluck . 
I like you , and K likes you . 
And with that Macfarlane took his departure and drove off up the wynd in his gig to get under cover before daylight . 
Fettes was thus left alone with his regrets . 
He saw the miserable peril in which he stood involved . 
He would have given the world to have been a little braver at the time , but it did not occur to him that he might still be brave . 
The secret of Jane Galbraith and the cursed entry in the day book closed his mouth . 
Hours passed the class began to arrive the members of the unhappy Gray were dealt out to one and to another , and received without remark . 
Richardson was made happy with the head and before the hour of freedom rang Fettes trembled with exultation to perceive how far they had already gone toward safety . 
For two days he continued to watch , with increasing joy , the dreadful process of disguise . 
On the third day Macfarlane made his appearance . 
He had been ill , he said but he made up for lost time by the energy with which he directed the students . 
Before the week was out Macfarlane's prophecy had been fulfilled . 
Fettes had outlived his terrors and had forgotten his baseness . 
He began to plume himself upon his courage , and had so arranged the story in his mind that he could look back on these events with an unhealthy pride . 
Of his accomplice he saw but little . 
They met , of course , in the business of the class they received their orders together from Mr. K . 
At times they had a word or two in private , and Macfarlane was from first to last particularly kind and jovial . 
At length an occasion arose which threw the pair once more into a closer union . 
Mr. K was again short of subjects pupils were eager , and it was a part of this teacher's pretensions to be always well supplied . 
At the same time there came the news of a burial in the rustic graveyard of Glencorse . 
Time has little changed the place in question . 
It stood then , as now , upon a cross road , out of call of human habitations , and buried fathom deep in the foliage of six cedar trees . 
The Resurrection Man to use a byname of the period was not to be deterred by any of the sanctities of customary piety . 
Somewhat as two vultures may swoop upon a dying lamb , Fettes and Macfarlane were to be let loose upon a grave in that green and quiet resting place . 
Late one afternoon the pair set forth , well wrapped in cloaks and furnished with a formidable bottle . 
It rained without remission a cold , dense , lashing rain . 
Now and again there blew a puff of wind , but these sheets of falling water kept it down . 
Bottle and all , it was a sad and silent drive as far as Penicuik , where they were to spend the evening . 
The lights , the fire , the beating rain upon the window , the cold , incongruous work that lay before them , added zest to their enjoyment of the meal . 
With every glass their cordiality increased . 
Soon Macfarlane handed a little pile of gold to his companion . 
'A compliment , he said . 
'Between friends these little d d accommodations ought to fly like pipe lights . 
Fettes pocketed the money , and applauded the sentiment to the echo . 
'You are a philosopher , he cried . 
'I was an ass till I knew you . 
You and K between you , by the Lord Harry ! but you'll make a man of me . 
'Of course we shall , applauded Macfarlane . 
'A man ? I tell you , it required a man to back me up the other morning . 
There are some big , brawling , forty year old cowards who would have turned sick at the look of the d d thing but not you you kept your head . 
'Well , and why not ? Fettes thus vaunted himself . 
'It was no affair of mine . 
Macfarlane somehow felt a certain touch of alarm at these unpleasant words . 
Now , between you and me , I don't want to hang that's practical but for all cant , Macfarlane , I was born with a contempt . 
Here's to the memory of Gray ! It was by this time growing somewhat late . 
The gig , according to order , was brought round to the door with both lamps brightly shining , and the young men had to pay their bill and take the road . 
There was no sound but that of their own passage , and the incessant , strident pouring of the rain . 
Thus , under the dripping trees , and environed by huge and moving shadows , they reached the scene of their unhallowed labours . 
At the same moment Macfarlane , having hurt his hand upon a stone , flung it carelessly above his head . 
Chance had taken a sure aim with the stone . 
Then came a clang of broken glass night fell upon them sounds alternately dull and ringing announced the bounding of the lantern down the bank , and its occasional collision with the trees . 
They were so nearly at an end of their abhorred task that they judged it wisest to complete it in the dark . 
At every repetition of the horrid contact each instinctively repelled it with the greater haste and the process , natural although it was , began to tell upon the nerves of the companions . 
Macfarlane made some ill favoured jest about the farmer's wife , but it came hollowly from his lips , and was allowed to drop in silence . 
A creeping chill began to possess the soul of Fettes . 
He peered at the bundle , and it seemed somehow larger than at first . 
They had by that time got no farther than the cross road down to Auchenclinny . 
The rain still poured as though the deluge were returning , and it was no easy matter to make a light in such a world of wet and darkness . 
For some time Macfarlane stood motionless , holding up the lamp . 
Another beat of the watch , and he had spoken . 
But his comrade forestalled him . 
'That is not a woman , said Macfarlane , in a hushed voice . 
'It was a woman when we put her in , whispered Fettes . 
'Hold that lamp , said the other . 
'I must see her face . 
And as Fettes took the lamp his companion untied the fastenings of the sack and drew down the cover from the head . 
The light fell very clear upon the dark , well moulded features and smooth shaven cheeks of a too familiar countenance , often beheld in dreams of both of these young men . 
He made as many thoughts as Stuart Mill but his philosophy concerned flesh and blood , and was experimental as to its method . 
He was a type hunter among mankind . 
'There was a man , there was a woman , he seemed to say , and he stood up to the task of comprehension with the delight of an artist in his art . 
And indeed , rightly considered , this interest of his was an artistic interest . 
There is no science in the personal study of human nature . 
To love a character is only the heroic way of understanding it . 
When we love , by some noble method of our own or some nobility of mien or nature in the other , we apprehend the loved one by what is noblest in ourselves . 
When we are merely studying an eccentricity , the method of our study is but a series of allowances . 
To begin to understand is to begin to sympathise for comprehension comes only when we have stated another's faults and virtues in terms of our own . 
Hence the proverbial toleration of artists for their own evil creations . 
One of these was Mr. Peter Van Tromp , an English speaking , two legged animal of the international genus , and by profession of general and more than equivocal utility . 
Years before he had been a painter of some standing in a colony , and portraits signed 'Van Tromp' had celebrated the greatness of colonial governors and judges . 
In those days he had been married , and driven his wife and infant daughter in a pony trap . 
What were the steps of his declension ? No one exactly knew . 
Here he was at least , and had been any time these past ten years , a sort of dismal parasite upon the foreigner in Paris . 
It would be hazardous to specify his exact industry . 
Coarsely followed , it would have merited a name grown somewhat unfamiliar to our ears . 
Followed as he followed it , with a skilful reticence , in a kind of social chiaroscuro , it was still possible for the polite to call him a professional painter . 
His lair was in the Grand Hotel and the gaudiest cafes . 
There he might be seen jotting off a sketch with an air of some inspiration and he was always affable , and one of the easiest of men to fall in talk withal . 
A conversation usually ripened into a peculiar sort of intimacy , and it was extraordinary how many little services Van Tromp contrived to render in the course of six and thirty hours . 
He occupied a position between a friend and a courier , which made him worse than embarrassing to repay . 
Among resident artists he enjoyed celebrity of a non professional sort . 
He had spent more money no less than three individual fortunes , it was whispered than any of his associates could ever hope to gain . 
His name and his bright past , seen through the prism of whispered gossip , had gained him the nickname of THE ADMIRAL . 
Dick thought it remarkable that a painter should choose to work over an absinthe in a public cafe , and looked the man over . 
Dick came up to his table and inquired if he might look at what the gentleman was doing . 
No one was so delighted as the Admiral . 
'A bit of a thing , said he . 
'I just dash them off like that . 
I I dash them off , he added with a gesture . 
'Quite so , said Dick , who was appalled by the feebleness of the production . 
'Understand me , continued Van Tromp 'I am a man of the world . 
And yet once an artist always an artist . 
All of a sudden a thought takes me in the street I become its prey it's like a pretty woman no use to struggle I must dash it off . 
'I see , said Dick . 
'Yes , pursued the painter 'it all comes easily , easily to me it is not my business it's a pleasure . 
Life is my business life this great city , Paris Paris after dark its lights , its gardens , its odd corners . 
Aha ! he cried , 'to be young again ! The heart is young , but the heels are leaden . 
A poor , mean business , to grow old ! Nothing remains but the COUP D'OEIL , the contemplative man's enjoyment , Mr. , and he paused for the name . 
Dick had never found any one take a fancy to him so readily , nor show it in an easier or less offensive manner . 
Dick protested , but in vain . 
This manner of carrying an intimacy at the bayonet's point was Van Tromp's stock in trade . 
And what young man can bear to lose a character for vice ? At last , as it grew towards dinner time , 'Do you know Paris ? asked Van Tromp . 
'Not so well as you , I am convinced , said Dick . 
'And so am I , returned Van Tromp gaily . 
'Paris ! My young friend you will allow me ? when you know Paris as I do , you will have seen Strange Things . 
I say no more all I say is , Strange Things . 
We are men of the world , you and I , and in Paris , in the heart of civilised existence . 
This is an opportunity , Mr. Naseby . 
Let me show you where to dine . 
At the restaurant he showed him what to order , with surprising consequences in the bill . 
What he made that night by his percentages it would be hard to estimate . 
And all the while Dick smilingly consented , understanding well that he was being done , but taking his losses in the pursuit of character as a hunter sacrifices his dogs . 
Yet he was a guide of no mean order , who made up for the poverty of what he had to show by a copious , imaginative commentary . 
'And such , said he , with a hiccup , 'such is Paris . 
'Pooh ! said Dick , who was tired of the performance . 
The Admiral hung an ear , and looked up sidelong with a glimmer of suspicion . 
'Good night , said Dick 'I'm tired . 
'So English ! cried Van Tromp , clutching him by the hand . 
'So English ! So BLASE ! Such a charming companion ! Let me see you home . 
'Look here , returned Dick , 'I have said good night , and now I'm going . 
You're an amusing old boy I like you , in a sense but here's an end of it for to night . 
Not another cigar , not another grog , not another percentage out of me . 
'I beg your pardon ! cried the Admiral with dignity . 
'Tut , man ! said Dick 'you're not offended you're a man of the world , I thought . 
I've been studying you , and it's over . 
Have I not paid for the lesson ? AU REVOIR . 
CHAPTER II A LETTER TO THE PAPERS OLD Mr. Naseby had the sturdy , untutored nature of the upper middle class . 
The universe seemed plain to him . 
'The thing's right , he would say , or 'the thing's wrong' and there was an end of it . 
Apart from this , which made him an exacting companion , he was one of the most upright , hot tempered , hot headed old gentlemen in England . 
He had a hearty respect for Dick as a lad of parts . 
Dick had a respect for his father as the best of men , tempered by the politic revolt of a youth who has to see to his own independence . 
Whenever the pair argued , they came to an open rupture and arguments were frequent , for they were both positive , and both loved the work of the intelligence . 
It was a treat to hear Mr. Naseby defending the Church of England in a volley of oaths , or supporting ascetic morals with an enthusiasm not entirely innocent of port wine . 
Dick used to wax indignant , and none the less so because , as his father was a skilful disputant , he found himself not seldom in the wrong . 
'I have to apologise , sir , for last night he would begin . 
'Of course you have , the old gentleman would cut in cheerfully . 
'You spoke like a fool . 
Say no more about it . 
'You do not understand me , sir . 
I refer to a particular point . 
I confess there is much force in your argument from the doctrine of possibilities . 
'Of course there is , returned his father . 
'Come down and look at the stables . 
Only , he would add , 'bear this in mind , and do remember that a man of my age and experience knows more about what he is saying than a raw boy . 
He would utter the word 'boy' even more offensively than the average of fathers , and the light way in which he accepted these apologies cut Richard to the heart . 
The latter drew slighting comparisons , and remembered that he was the only one who ever apologised . 
So things went on until the famous occasion when Mr. Naseby , becoming engrossed in securing the election of a sound party candidate to Parliament , wrote a flaming letter to the papers . 
'The Liberal candidate , he concluded , 'is thus a public turncoat . 
Is that the sort of man we want ? He has been given the lie , and has swallowed the insult . 
Dick , who had heard nothing of the matter , was up first on that inauspicious day , and took the journal to an arbour in the garden . 
He found his father's manifesto in one column and in another a leading article . 
here He mauna think to domineer . 
'Liberalism , continued the anonymous journalist , 'is of too free and sound a growth , etc . 
Richard Naseby read the whole thing from beginning to end and a crushing shame fell upon his spirit . 
His father had played the fool he had gone out noisily to war , and come back with confusion . 
The moment that his trumpets sounded , he had been disgracefully unhorsed . 
There was no question as to the facts they were one and all against the Squire . 
The editor was at breakfast in a large , sad apartment . 
'You wrote the article in this morning's paper ? he demanded . 
'You are young Mr. Naseby ? I PUBLISHED it , replied the editor , rising . 
'I have but one question to put to you , sir , he resumed . 
Party has its duties , sir , added the scribe , kindling , as one who should propose a sentiment 'and the attack was gross . 
His horse was not hurried on the way home , and he was late for breakfast . 
The Squire was standing with his back to the fire in a state bordering on apoplexy , his fingers violently knitted under his coat tails . 
As Richard came in , he opened and shut his mouth like a cod fish , and his eyes protruded . 
'Have you seen that , sir ? he cried , nodding towards the paper . 
'Yes , sir , said Richard . 
'Oh , you've read it , have you ? 'Yes , I have read it , replied Richard , looking at his foot . 
'Well , demanded the old gentleman , 'and what have you to say to it , sir ? 'You seem to have been misinformed , said Dick . 
It would be more handsome , indeed it would be only just , and a free acknowledgment would go far Richard paused , no language appearing delicate enough to suit the case . 
'That is a suggestion which should have come from me , sir , roared the father . 
'It is out of place upon your lips . 
It is not the thought of a loyal son . 
Why , sir , if my father had been plunged in such deplorable circumstances , I should have thrashed the editor of that vile sheet within an inch of his life . 
I should have thrashed the man , sir . 
It would have been the action of an ass but it would have shown that I had the blood and the natural affections of a man . 
Son ? You are no son , no son of mine , sir ! 'Sir ! said Dick . 
'I'll tell you what you are , sir , pursued the Squire . 
Your mother would have died for shame there was no modern cant about your mother she thought she said to me , sir I'm glad she's in her grave , Dick Naseby . 
Misinformed ! Misinformed , sir ? Have you no loyalty , no spring , no natural affections ? Are you clockwork , hey ? Away ! This is no place for you . 
And in the midst of all this turmoil , a sense of unpardonable injustice remained graven in his memory . 
CHAPTER III IN THE ADMIRAL'S NAME THERE was no return to the subject . 
Dick and his father were henceforth on terms of coldness . 
As for Dick , it seemed to him as if his life had come abruptly to an end . 
If he fled into a new land , and among none but strangers , he might escape his destiny , who knew ? and begin again light heartedly . 
There , he thought , was hope . 
But his heart failed him when he saw the Squire and he remained . 
His fate was not that of the voyager by sea and land he was to travel in the spirit , and begin his journey sooner than he supposed . 
For it chanced one day that his walk led him into a portion of the uplands which was almost unknown to him . 
Scrambling through some rough woods , he came out upon a moorland reaching towards the hills . 
A few lofty Scotch firs grew hard by upon a knoll a clear fountain near the foot of the knoll sent up a miniature streamlet which meandered in the heather . 
A shower had just skimmed by , but now the sun shone brightly , and the air smelt of the pines and the grass . 
On a stone under the trees sat a young lady sketching . 
It was only a black dress that caught Dick Naseby's eye but it took possession of his mind , and all other thoughts departed . 
He drew near , and the girl turned round . 
Her face startled him it was a face he wanted and he took it in at once like breathing air . 
'I beg your pardon , he said , taking off his hat , 'you are sketching . 
'Oh ! she exclaimed , 'for my own amusement . 
'Ten to one , you do yourself injustice , returned Dick . 
'Besides , it's a freemasonry . 
I sketch myself , and you know what that implies . 
'Two things , he answered . 
'First , that I am no very difficult critic and second , that I have a right to see your picture . 
She covered the block with both her hands . 
'Oh no , she said 'I am ashamed . 
'Indeed , I might give you a hint , said Dick . 
'Although no artist myself , I have known many in Paris I had many for friends , and used to prowl among studios . 
'In Paris ? she cried , with a leap of light into her eyes . 
'Did you ever meet Mr. Van Tromp ? 'I ? Yes . 
Why , you're not the Admiral's daughter , are you ? 'The Admiral ? Do they call him that ? she cried . 
'Oh , how nice , how nice of them ! It is the younger men who call him so , is it not ? 'Yes , said Dick , somewhat heavily . 
'You can understand now , she said , with an unspeakable accent of contented noble minded pride , 'why it is I do not choose to show my sketch . 
Van Tromp's daughter ! The Admiral's daughter ! I delight in that name . 
The Admiral ! And so you know my father ? 'Well , said Dick , 'I met him often we were even intimate . 
He may have mentioned my name Naseby . 
For a great painter ! You have seen his works ? 'I have seen some of them , returned Dick 'they they are very nice . 
'I see you don't care much for art . 
'Not much , he admitted 'but I know that many people are glad to buy Mr. Van Tromp's pictures . 
'Call him the Admiral ! she cried . 
'It sounds kindly and familiar and I like to think that he is appreciated and looked up to by young painters . 
'And now I shall go home . 
'You are my father's friend , she said 'we shall be great friends too . 
You must come and see me soon . 
Then she was gone down the hillside at a run and Dick stood by himself in a state of some bewilderment and even distress . 
What was he , under the circumstances , called upon to do ? Perhaps to avoid the girl ? Well , he would think about that . 
Perhaps to break the truth to her ? Why , ten to one , such was her infatuation , he would fail . 
He saw about this last so well , that the next afternoon beheld him on his way to visit her . 
'A friend of his ? cried the aunt . 
'What like is he ? What did ye say was his name ? She was dead silent , and stared at the old woman darkling . 
Miss M'Glashan , for that was the aunt's name , read a large bible in the kitchen with some of the joys of martyrdom . 
It was perhaps half past three when Dick presented himself , rather scrupulously dressed , before the cottage door he knocked , and a voice bade him enter . 
The kitchen , which opened directly off the garden , was somewhat darkened by foliage but he could see her as she approached from the far end to meet him . 
This second sight of her surprised him . 
'My father's name , she said , 'has made you very welcome . 
And she gave him her hand , with a sort of curtsy . 
It was a pretty greeting , although somewhat mannered and Dick felt himself among the gods . 
She led him through the kitchen to a parlour , and presented him to Miss M'Glashan . 
'Esther , said the aunt , 'see and make Mr. Naseby his tea . 
And as soon as the girl was gone upon this hospitable intent , the old woman crossed the room and came quite near to Dick as if in menace . 
'Ye know that man ? she asked in an imperious whisper . 
Van Tromp ? said Dick . 
'Yes , I know him . 
'Well , and what brings ye here ? she said . 
'I couldn't save the mother her that's dead but the bairn ! She had a note in her voice that filled poor Dick with consternation . 
'Man , she went on , 'what is it now ? Is it money ? 'My dear lady , said Dick , 'I think you misinterpret my position . 
I am young Mr. Naseby of Naseby House . 
My acquaintance with Mr. Van Tromp is really very slender I am only afraid that Miss Van Tromp has exaggerated our intimacy in her own imagination . 
I know positively nothing of his private affairs , and do not care to know . 
I met him casually in Paris that is all . 
Miss M'Glashan drew along breath . 
'In Paris ? she said . 
'I found him a very agreeable companion , he said . 
'Ay , said she , 'did ye ! And how does he win his bread ? 'I fancy , he gasped , 'that Mr. Van Tromp has many generous friends . 
'I'll warrant ! she sneered and before Dick could find more to say , she was gone from the room . 
Esther returned with the tea things , and sat down . 
'Now , she said cosily , 'tell me all about my father . 
'He' stammered Dick , 'he is a very agreeable companion . 
'I shall begin to think it is more than you are , Mr. Naseby , she said , with a laugh . 
'I am his daughter , you forget . 
Begin at the beginning , and tell me all you have seen of him , all he said and all you answered . 
You must have met somewhere begin with that . 
It was astonishing how few lies were necessary . 
After all , people exaggerated the difficulty of life . 
A little steering , just a touch of the rudder now and then , and with a willing listener there is no limit to the domain of equivocal speech . 
It does not frighten me , she added grandly 'I am an artist's daughter . 
Dick took her in his arms , and their lips were set together for a long while . 
Then he held her at arm's length , and they looked straight into each other's eyes . 
'Esther ! he said you should have heard his voice ! 'Dick ! said she . 
'Esther ! he began , 'there is something you ought to know . 
You know my father is a rich man , and you would think , now that we love each other , we might marry when we pleased . 
But I fear , darling , we may have long to wait , and shall want all our courage . 
He had a sharp pang at the mention of the Admiral . 
'Hear me out , he continued . 
'I ought to have told you this before but it is a thought I shrink from if it were possible , I should not tell you even now . 
My poor father and I are scarce on speaking terms . 
'Your father , she repeated , turning pale . 
'It must sound strange to you but yet I cannot think I am to blame , he said . 
'I will tell you how it happened . 
'Oh Dick ! she said , when she had heard him to an end , 'how brave you are , and how proud . 
Yet I would not be proud with a father . 
I would tell him all . 
'What ! cried Dick , 'go in months after , and brag that I had meant to thrash the man , and then didn't . 
And why ? Because my father had made a bigger ass of himself than I supposed . 
My dear , that's nonsense . 
She winced at his words and drew away . 
'But when that is all he asks , she pleaded . 
'If he only knew that you had felt that impulse , it would make him so proud and happy . 
He would see you were his own son after all , and had the same thoughts and the same chivalry of spirit . 
And then you did yourself injustice when you spoke just now . 
It was because the editor was weak and poor and excused himself , that you repented your first determination . 
Had he been a big red man , with whiskers , you would have beaten him you know you would if Mr. Naseby had been ten times more committed . 
In short , Esther , you don't know what it is to have a father , and that's what blinds you . 
'I see , she said musingly , 'you mean that I am fortunate in my father . 
But I am not so fortunate after all you forget , I do not know him it is you who know him he is already more your father than mine . 
And here she took his hand . 
Dick's heart had grown as cold as ice . 
'But I am sorry for you , too , she continued , 'it must be very sad and lonely . 
'You misunderstand me , said Dick , chokingly . 
'My father is the best man I know in all this world he is worth a hundred of me , only he doesn't understand me , and he can't be made to . 
There was a silence for a while . 
'Dick , she began again , 'I am going to ask a favour , it's the first since you said you loved me . 
May I see your father see him pass , I mean , where he will not observe me ? 'Why ? asked Dick . 
'It is a fancy you forget , I am romantic about fathers . 
There they both sat silent , but holding hands , for nearly half an hour . 
'Oh Dick , Dick ! she said , and the tears began to shine upon her face as she hid it in his bosom his own fell thickly too . 
CHAPTER V THE PRODIGAL FATHER MAKES HIS DEBUT AT HOME THAT took place upon a Tuesday . 
The lady did not deign to remark him in her passage her face was suffused with tears , and expressed much concern for the packages by which she was surrounded . 
He stood still , and asked himself what this circumstance might portend . 
Miss M'Glashan was now seen in the rosy colours of regret whoever succeeded her , Dick felt the change would be for the worse . 
The thunderbolt had fallen the Admiral was here . 
Dick would have retreated , in the panic terror of the moment but Esther kept a bright look out when her lover was expected . 
Then , as though this was the end of what she could endure in the way of joy , Esther turned and ran out of the room . 
The two men remained looking at each other with some confusion on both sides . 
Van Tromp was naturally the first to recover he put out his hand with a fine gesture . 
'And you know my little lass , my Esther ? he said . 
'This is pleasant this is what I have conceived of home . 
A strange word for the old rover but we all have a taste for home and the home like , disguise it how we may . 
'I see , said Dick . 
'Sit down , continued the parasite , setting the example . 
'Fortune has gone against me . 
Esther , at this moment , re entered the room . 
'Are you glad to see him ? she whispered in his ear , the pleasure in her voice almost bursting through the whisper into song . 
'Oh yes , said Dick , 'very . 
'I knew you would be , she replied 'I told him how you loved him . 
'Help yourself , said the Admiral , 'help yourself and let us drink to a new existence . 
'To a new existence , repeated Dick and he raised the tumbler to his lips , but set it down untasted . 
He had had enough of novelties for one day . 
Esther was sitting on a stool beside her father's feet , holding her knees in her arms , and looking with pride from one to the other of her two visitors . 
It would be hard to exaggerate the agony of Richard . 
And , in the meantime , Van Tromp ran on interminably . 
'But those days are done . 
Van Tromp is no more . 
He was a man who had successes I believe you knew I had successes to which we shall refer no farther , pulling down his neckcloth with a smile . 
'That man exists no more by an exercise of will I have destroyed him . 
There is something like it in the poets . 
In Paris , Mr. Naseby 'Call him Richard , father , said Esther . 
'Richard , if he will allow me . 
Not that I care I am an old Bohemian . 
I have cut society with a cut direct I cut it when I was prosperous , and now I reap my reward , and can cut it with dignity in my declension . 
These are our little AMOURS PROPRES , my daughter your father must respect himself . 
Thank you , yes just a leetle , leetle , tiny thanks , thanks you spoil me . 
The neighbours , Richard ? Dick was understood to say that there were many good families in the Vale of Thyme . 
'You shall introduce us , said the Admiral . 
'Before our walk ? she cried . 
'Never ! I must have my walk . 
'Let us all go , said the Admiral , rising . 
'You do not know that you are wanted , she cried , leaning on his shoulder with a caress . 
'I might wish to speak to my old friend about my new father . 
But you shall come to day , you shall do all you want I have set my heart on spoiling you . 
'I will just take ONE drop more , said the Admiral , stooping to help himself to brandy . 
'It is surprising how this journey has fatigued me . 
But I am growing old , I am growing old , I am growing old , and I regret to add bald . 
'We are papa now we must be respectable , he said to Dick , in explanation of his dandyism and then he went to a bundle and chose himself a staff . 
Where were the elegant canes of his Parisian epoch ? This was a support for age , and designed for rustic scenes . 
Dick began to see and appreciate the man's enjoyment in a new part , when he saw how carefully he had 'made it up . 
He had invented a gait for this first country stroll with his daughter , which was admirably in key . 
'This country life will make me young again , he sighed . 
Then the painter wakened in Van Tromp . 
And just then the Admiral perceived a house by the wayside , and something depending over the house door which might be construed as a sign by the hopeful and thirsty . 
'You know it ? inquired the Admiral . 
'I have passed it a hundred times , but that is all , replied Dick . 
'Ah , said Van Tromp , with a smile , and shaking his head 'you are not an old campaigner you have the world to learn . 
Now I , you see , find an inn so very near my own home , and my first thought is my neighbours . 
I shall go forward and make my neighbours' acquaintance no , you needn't come I shall not be a moment . 
And he walked off briskly towards the inn , leaving Dick alone with Esther on the road . 
Imagine , he has come without a paint box , without an easel and I want him to have all . 
I want you to get them for me in Thymebury . 
You saw , this moment , how his heart turned to painting . 
They can't live without it , she added meaning perhaps Van Tromp and Michel Angelo . 
Up to that moment , she had observed nothing amiss in Dick's behaviour . 
She was too happy to be curious and his silence , in presence of the great and good being whom she called her father , had seemed both natural and praiseworthy . 
But now that they were alone , she became conscious of a barrier between her lover and herself , and alarm sprang up in her heart . 
'Dick , she cried , 'you don't love me . 
'I do that , he said heartily . 
'But you are unhappy you are strange you you are not glad to see my father , she concluded , with a break in her voice . 
'Esther , he said , 'I tell you that I love you if you love me , you know what that means , and that all I wish is to see you happy . 
Do you think I cannot enjoy your pleasures ? Esther , I do . 
If I am uneasy , if I am alarmed , if . 
Oh , believe me , try and believe in me , he cried , giving up argument with perhaps a happy inspiration . 
, it by no means left her thoughts . 
At another , she suspected him of jealousy against her father and for that , although she could see excuses for it , she yet despised him . 
And at least , in one way or the other , here was the dangerous beginning of a separation between two hearts . 
To put the whole matter in a word , she was beginning , although ever so slightly , to fall out of love . 
Often and often has he remarked to the present writer 'If I know what it was all about , sir , I'll be in short , be what I hope he will not . 
And then he will look across at his daughter's portrait , a photograph , shake his head with an amused appearance , and mix himself another grog by way of consolation . 
Once I heard him go farther , and express his feelings with regard to Esther in a single but eloquent word . 
'A minx , sir , he said , not in anger , rather in amusement and he cordially drank her health upon the back of it . 
His worst enemy must admit him to be a man without malice he never bore a grudge in his life , lacking the necessary taste and industry of attention . 
Yet it was during this obscure period that the drama was really performed and its scene was in the heart of Esther , shut away from all eyes . 
The first tangible cause of disenchantment was when Dick brought home a painter's arsenal on Friday evening . 
The Admiral was in the chimney corner , once more 'sirrupping' some brandy and water , and Esther sat at the table at work . 
They both came forward to greet the new arrival and the girl , relieving him of his monstrous burthen , proceeded to display her offerings to her father . 
Van Tromp's countenance fell several degrees he became quite querulous . 
'God bless me , he said and then , 'I must really ask you not to interfere , child , in a tone of undisguised hostility . 
Suppose the world is unjust , suppose that no one understands you , you have still a duty to yourself . 
And , oh , don't spoil the pleasure of your coming home to me show me that you can be my father and yet not neglect your destiny . 
I am not like some daughters I will not be jealous of your art , and I will try to understand it . 
The situation was odiously farcical . 
Richard groaned under it he longed to leap forward and denounce the humbug . 
It was of very brief duration . 
Van Tromp was himself again , and in a most delightful humour within three minutes of the first explosion . 
'I am an old fool , he said frankly . 
'I was spoiled when a child . 
As for you , Esther , you take after your mother you have a morbid sense of duty , particularly for others strive against it , my dear strive against it . 
And as for the pigments , well , I'll use them , some of these days and to show that I'm in earnest , I'll get Dick here to prepare a canvas . 
Dick was put to this menial task forthwith , the Admiral not even watching how he did , but quite occupied with another grog and a pleasant vein of talk . 
A little after Esther arose , and making some pretext , good or bad , went off to bed . 
Dick was left hobbled by the canvas , and was subjected to Van Tromp for about an hour . 
He , on his part , was full of airs and graces and geniality . 
'Dear Dick , he said , taking his arm , 'this is neighbourly of you it shows your tact to meet me when I had a wish for you . 
I am in pleasant spirits and it is then that I desire a friend . 
'I am glad to hear you are so happy , retorted Dick bitterly . 
'There's certainly not much to trouble YOU . 
'No , assented the Admiral , 'not much . 
I got out of it in time and here well , here everything pleases me . 
I am plain in my tastes . 
'A PROPOS , you have never asked me how I liked my daughter ? 'No , said Dick roundly 'I certainly have not . 
Frankly , I am not disappointed in her . 
She has good looks she has them from her mother . 
So I may say I CHOSE her looks . 
She is devoted , quite devoted to me 'She is the best woman in the world ! broke out Dick . 
'Dick , cried the Admiral , stopping short 'I have been expecting this . 
Let us let us go back to the Trevanion Arms and talk this matter out over a bottle . 
'Certainly not , went Dick . 
'You have had far too much already . 
'As you please , he said 'although I don't know what you mean nor care . 
But let us walk , if you prefer it . 
You are still a young man when you are my age But , however , to continue . 
You please me , Dick you have pleased me from the first and to say truth , Esther is a trifle fantastic , and will be better when she is married . 
She has means of her own , as of course you are aware . 
They come , like the looks , from her poor , dear , good creature of a mother . 
She was blessed in her mother . 
I mean she shall be blessed in her husband , and you are the man , Dick , you and not another . 
This very night I will sound her affections . 
Van Tromp , I implore you , he said 'do what you please with yourself , but , for God's sake , let your daughter alone . 
'It is my duty , replied the Admiral , 'and between ourselves , you rogue , my inclination too . 
I am as matchmaking as a dowager . 
It will be more discreet for you to stay away to night . 
You leave your case in good hands I have the tact of these little matters by heart it is not my first attempt . 
All arguments were in vain the old rascal stuck to his point nor did Richard conceal from himself how seriously this might injure his prospects , and he fought hard . 
Once there came a glimmer of hope . 
Had he done so , of course Dick could have taken to his heels , and warned Esther of what was coming , and of how it had begun . 
But the Admiral , after a pause , decided for the brandy at home , and made off in that direction . 
We have no details of the sounding . 
Next day the Admiral was observed in the parish church , very properly dressed . 
He found the places , and joined in response and hymn , as to the manner born and his appearance , as he intended it should , attracted some attention among the worshippers . 
Old Naseby , for instance , had observed him . 
'A foreigner , too ! observed the Squire . 
Dick could not sufficiently congratulate himself on the escape he had effected . 
He knocked and was admitted . 
The girl was paler than usual her eyes were dark , the colour seemed to have faded from round about them , and her swiftest glance was as intent as a stare . 
We are warned against bad judgments but the Admiral was certainly not sober . 
He made no attempt to rise when Richard entered , but waved his pipe flightily in the air , and gave a leer of welcome . 
Esther took as little notice of him as might be . 
'Aha ! Dick ! cried the painter . 
'I've been to church I have , upon my word . 
And I saw you there , though you didn't see me . 
And I saw a devilish pretty woman , by Gad . 
Not that that matters , I've heaps of things to say . 
I'm in a communicative vein to night . 
I'll let out all my cats , even unto seventy times seven . 
I'm in what I call THE stage , and all I desire is a listener , although he were deaf , to be as happy as Nebuchadnezzar . 
Of the two hours which followed upon this it is unnecessary to give more than a sketch . 
The Admiral was extremely silly , now and then amusing , and never really offensive . 
It was plain that he kept in view the presence of his daughter , and chose subjects and a character of language that should not offend a lady . 
On almost any other occasion Dick would have enjoyed the scene . 
Van Tromp's egotism , flown with drink , struck a pitch above mere vanity . 
He became candid and explanatory sought to take his auditors entirely into his confidence , and tell them his inmost conviction about himself . 
Between his self knowledge , which was considerable , and his vanity , which was immense , he had created a strange hybrid animal , and called it by his own name . 
How he would plume his feathers over virtues which would have gladdened the heart of Caesar or St . 
Paul and anon , complete his own portrait with one of those touches of pitiless realism which the satirist so often seeks in vain . 
I bear you no malice for it , Dick you were right I am a humbug . 
You may fancy how Esther quailed at this new feature of the meeting between her two idols . 
And then , again , in a parenthesis 'That , said Van Tromp , 'was when I had to paint those dirty daubs of mine . 
And a little further on , laughingly said perhaps , but yet with an air of truth 'I never had the slightest hesitation in sponging upon any human creature . 
'I think perhaps , he said , 'we had better all be thinking of going to bed . 
And he smiled with a feeble and deprecatory smile . 
'Not at all , cried the Admiral , 'I know a trick worth two of that . 
Puss here , indicating his daughter , 'shall go to bed and you and I will keep it up till all's blue . 
Thereupon Esther arose in sullen glory . 
She had sat and listened for two mortal hours while her idol defiled himself and sneered away his godhead . 
One by one , her illusions had departed . 
Her voice was calm , her enunciation a little slow , but perfectly distinct , and she stood before him as she spoke , in the simplest and most maidenly attitude . 
'No , she said , 'Mr . 
Naseby will have the goodness to go home at once , and you will go to bed . 
Dick she motioned sharply towards the door , and he could only obey her . 
In the porch , finding she was close behind him , he ventured to pause and whisper , 'You have done right . 
'I have done as I pleased , she said . 
'I ask you if he can paint . 
I will not be put off . 
CAN he paint ? she repeated . 
'Does he even like it ? 'Not now , I believe . 
'And he is drunk ? she leaned upon the word with hatred . 
'Go , she said , and was turning to re enter the house when another thought arrested her . 
'Meet me to morrow morning at the stile , she said . 
'I will , replied Dick . 
And then the door closed behind her , and Dick was alone in the darkness . 
Dick remained as she had left him , standing squarely upon one foot and resting only on the toe of the other , and as he stood he listened with his soul . 
The girl had tamed her father , Van Tromp had gone obediently to bed so much was obvious to the watcher in the road . 
Esther sat upright at the table , her head resting on her hand , her eyes fixed upon the candle . 
Her brows were slightly bent , her mouth slightly open her whole attitude so still and settled that Dick could hardly fancy that she breathed . 
She had not stirred at the sound of Dick's arrival . 
Still Esther continued immovable and gazed upon the candle . 
Midnight followed , and then one of the morning and still she had not stirred , nor had Richard Naseby dared to quit the window . 
He turned and walked slowly towards the stile she had told him no hour , and he was determined , whenever she came , that she should find him waiting . 
As he got there the day began to dawn , and he leaned over a hurdle and beheld the shadows flee away . 
'Alas ! thought Dick Naseby , 'how can any other day come so distastefully to me ? He still wanted his experience of the morrow . 
It took him some time to recollect his thoughts . 
Nor did she offer him her hand . 
'Here I am , said he . 
'Yes , she replied and then , without a pause or any change of voice , 'I want you to take me away , she added . 
'How ? Where ? 'To day , she said . 
'I do not care where it is , but I want you to take me away . 
'For how long ? I do not understand , gasped Dick . 
'I shall never come back here any more , was all she answered . 
Wild words uttered , as these were , with perfect quiet of manner and voice , exercise a double influence on the hearer's mind . 
Dick was confounded he recovered from astonishment only to fall into doubt and alarm . 
He looked upon her frozen attitude , so discouraging for a lover to behold , and recoiled from the thoughts which it suggested . 
'To me ? he asked . 
'Are you coming to me , Esther ? 'I want you to take me away , she repeated with weary impatience . 
'Take me away take me away from here . 
The situation was not sufficiently defined . 
Dick asked himself with concern whether she were altogether in her right wits . 
He was not one of those tough hided and small hearted males who would marry their love at the point of the bayonet rather than not marry her at all . 
He desired that a woman should come to his arms with an attractive willingness , if not with ardour . 
And Esther's bearing was more that of despair than that of love . 
It chilled him and taught him wisdom . 
'Dearest , he urged , 'tell me what you wish , and you shall have it tell me your thoughts , and then I can advise you . 
But to go from here without a plan , without forethought , in the heat of a moment , is madder than madness , and can help nothing . 
I am not speaking like a man , but I speak the truth and I tell you again , the thing's absurd , and wrong , and hurtful . 
She looked at him with a lowering , languid look of wrath . 
'So you will not take me ? she said . 
'Well , I will go alone . 
And she began to step forward on her way . 
But he threw himself before her . 
'Esther , Esther ! he cried . 
'Let me go don't touch me what right have you to interfere ? Who are you , to touch me ? she flashed out , shrill with anger . 
Then , being made bold by her violence , he took her firmly , almost roughly , by the arm , and held her while he spoke . 
'You know well who I am , and what I am , and that I love you . 
You say I will not help you but your heart knows the contrary . 
It is you who will not help me for you will not tell me what you want . 
You see or you could see , if you took the pains to look how I have waited here all night to be ready at your service . 
I only asked information I only urged you to consider and I still urge and beg you to think better of your fancies . 
But if your mind is made up , so be it I will beg no longer I give you my orders and I will not allow not allow you to go hence alone . 
She looked at him for awhile with cold , unkind scrutiny like one who tries the temper of a tool . 
'Well , take me away , then , she said with a sigh . 
'Come with me to the stables there we shall get the pony trap and drive to the junction . 
To night you shall be in London . 
I am yours so wholly that no words can make me more so and , besides , you know it , and the words are needless . 
May God help me to be good to you , Esther may God help me ! for I see that you will not . 
So , without more speech , they set out together , and were already got some distance from the spot , ere he observed that she was still carrying the hand bag . 
She gave it up to him , passively , but when he offered her his arm , merely shook her head and pursed up her lips . 
The sun shone clearly and pleasantly the wind was fresh and brisk upon their faces , and smelt racily of woods and meadows . 
As they went down into the valley of the Thyme , the babble of the stream rose into the air like a perennial laughter . 
On the far away hills , sun burst and shadow raced along the slopes and leaped from peak to peak . 
Through all this walked Esther , picking her small steps like a bird , but silent and with a cloud under her thick eyebrows . 
She seemed insensible , not only of nature , but of the presence of her companion . 
She was altogether engrossed in herself , and looked neither to right nor to left , but straight before her on the road . 
'I am going to drink , she said and descended the winding footpath to the margin . 
There she drank greedily in her hands and washed her temples with water . 
Her thoughts were all secret her heart was locked and bolted and he stood without , vainly wooing her with his eves . 
'Do you feel better ? asked Dick , as she at last rejoined him and after the constraint of so long a silence , his voice sounded foreign to his own ears . 
She looked at him for an appreciable fraction of a minute ere she answered , and when she did , it was in the monosyllable 'Yes . 
Dick's solicitude was nipped and frosted . 
His words died away on his tongue . 
Even his eyes , despairing of encouragement , ceased to attend on hers . 
Esther had kept ahead all the way , and Dick plodded obediently in her wake but as they neared the stables , he pushed on and took the lead . 
Perhaps , too , he felt it wiser to keep his convoy within sight . 
So they entered the yard in Indian file , like a tramp and his wife . 
The grooms eyebrows rose as he received the order for the pony phaeton , and kept rising during all his preparations . 
Esther stood bolt upright and looked steadily at some chickens in the corner of the yard . 
Moreover he had apparently neglected to wash his hands , and bore the air of one returning from a prolonged nutting ramble . 
Upon the groom's countenance there began to grow up an expression as of one about to whistle . 
Luncheon would be on the table in little beyond an hour and the Squire , on sitting down , would hardly fail to ask for Master Richard . 
Hence , as the intelligent reader can foresee , this groom has a part to play in the imbroglio . 
Meantime , Dick had been thinking deeply and bitterly . 
Yet he durst not open his mouth , and drove in silence till they had passed the main park gates and turned into the cross cut lane along the wall . 
Then it seemed to him as if it must be now , or never . 
'Can't you see you are killing me ? he cried . 
'Speak to me , look at me , treat me like a human man . 
She turned slowly and looked him in the face with eyes that seemed kinder . 
He dropped the reins and caught her hand , and she made no resistance , although her touch was unresponsive . 
Then there was no room left for doubt , and Dick saw , as clear as sunlight , that she had a distaste or nourished a grudge against him . 
This was a station isolated in the midst of moorlands , yet lying on the great up line to London . 
The nearest town , Thymebury itself , was seven miles distant along the branch they call the Vale of Thyme Railway . 
Before the phaeton had driven off , the girl had entered the station and seated herself upon a bench . 
The endless , empty moorlands stretched before her , entirely unenclosed , and with no boundary but the horizon . 
Two lines of rails , a waggon shed , and a few telegraph posts , alone diversified the outlook . 
As for sounds , the silence was unbroken save by the chant of the telegraph wires and the crying of the plovers on the waste . 
With the approach of midday the wind had more and more fallen , it was now sweltering hot and the air trembled in the sunshine . 
Dick paused for an instant on the threshold of the platform . 
Then , in two steps , he was by her side and speaking almost with a sob . 
'Esther , he said , 'have pity on me . 
'You are all a lie to me all a lie from first to last . 
You were laughing at my folly , playing with me like a child , at the very time when you declared you loved me . 
Which was true ? was any of it true ? or was it all , all a mockery ? I am weary trying to find out . 
And you say I loved you I loved my father's friend . 
I never loved , I never heard of , you , until that man came home and I began to find myself deceived . 
Give me back my father , be what you were before , and you may talk of love indeed ! 'Then you cannot forgive me cannot ? he asked . 
'I have nothing to forgive , she answered . 
'Is that your last word , Esther ? said he , very white , and biting his lip to keep it still . 
'Yes , that is my last word , replied she . 
'Then we are here on false pretences , and we stay here no longer , he said . 
'Had you still loved me , right or wrong , I should have taken you away , because then I could have made you happy . 
But as it is I must speak plainly what you propose is degrading to you , and an insult to me , and a rank unkindness to your father . 
Your father may be this or that , but you should use him like a fellow creature . 
'What do you mean ? she flashed . 
'I leave him my house and all my money it is more than he deserves . 
I wonder you dare speak to me about that man . 
And besides , it is all he cares for let him take it , and let me never hear from him again . 
'I thought you romantic about fathers , he said . 
'Is that a taunt ? she demanded . 
'No , he replied , 'it is an argument . 
No one can make you like him , but don't disgrace him in his own eyes . 
He is old , Esther , old and broken down . 
Even I am sorry for him , and he has been the loss of all I cared for . 
Write to your aunt when I see her answer you can leave quietly and naturally , and I will take you to your aunt's door . 
But in the meantime you must go home . 
She had put her hand into her pocket and withdrawn it empty . 
'I counted upon you , she wailed . 
'You counted rightly then , he retorted . 
'Dick , she cried suddenly , 'perhaps I might perhaps in time perhaps 'There is no perhaps about the matter , interrupted Dick . 
'I must go and bring the phaeton . 
And with that he strode from the station , all in a glow of passion and virtue . 
Esther , whose eyes had come alive and her cheeks flushed during these last words , relapsed in a second into a state of petrifaction . 
Compared with what she was now , her condition of the morning seemed positively natural . 
She sat white and cold and silent , and there was no speculation in her eyes . 
He had lost his love he had lost his love for good . 
The pony was tired , and the hills very long and steep , and the air sultrier than ever , for now the breeze began to fail entirely . 
He had lost his love , he thought he had lost his love for good . 
They were already not far from the cottage , when his heart again faltered and he appealed to her once more , speaking low and eagerly in broken phrases . 
'I cannot live without your love , he concluded . 
'I do not understand what you mean , she replied , and I believe with perfect truth . 
'Then , said he , wounded to the quick , 'your aunt might come and fetch you herself . 
Of course you can command me as you please . 
But I think it would be better so . 
'Oh yes , she said wearily , 'better so . 
This was the only exchange of words between them till about four o'clock the phaeton , mounting the lane , 'opened out' the cottage between the leafy banks . 
For right before the gate a livery servant rode slowly up and down , leading a saddle horse . 
And in this last Dick shuddered to identify his father's chestnut . 
'Yes , sir , said the man , who had been unwilling enough to gossip from the first , and was now cowed by the effect of his communications on the master . 
'Young woman , sir ! 'Had they luggage ? demanded the Squire . 
'And was this this Van Dunk with them ? he asked , dwelling scornfully upon the name . 
The servant believed not , and being eager to shift the responsibility of speech to other shoulders , suggested that perhaps the master had better inquire further from George the stableman in person . 
'Tell him to saddle the chestnut and come with me . 
He can take the gray gelding for we may ride fast . 
His father was no society for him he must go fuddling with a Dutchman , Nance , and now he's caught . 
Let us pray he'll take the lesson , he added more gravely , 'but youth is here to make troubles , and age to pull them out again . 
He rode straight , hot spur , to Thymebury , where , as was to be expected , he could glean no tidings of the runaways . 
They had not been seen at the George they had not been seen at the station . 
'Here it is , sir , said George stopping . 
'What ! on my own land ! he cried . 
'How's this ? I let this place to somebody M'Whirter or M'Glashan . 
'Miss M'Glashan was the young lady's aunt , sir , I believe , returned George . 
'Ay dummies , said the Squire . 
'I shall whistle for my rent too . 
Here , take my horse . 
The Admiral , this hot afternoon , was sitting by the window with a long glass . 
'This is why the girl is not yet home , he thought 'a very suitable delicacy on young Naseby's part . 
Naseby , I believe , said he . 
The Squire came armed for battle took in his man from top to toe in one rapid and scornful glance , and decided on a course at once . 
He must let the fellow see that he understood him . 
'You are Mr. Van Tromp ? he returned roughly , and without taking any notice of the proffered hand . 
'The same , sir , replied the Admiral . 
'No sir , said the Squire , point blank , 'I will not be seated . 
I am told that you are an admiral , he added . 
'No sir , I am not an admiral , returned Van Tromp , who now began to grow nettled and enter into the spirit of the interview . 
'Then why do you call yourself one , sir ? 'I have to ask your pardon , I do not , says Van Tromp , as grand as the Pope . 
But nothing was of avail against the Squire . 
'You sail under false colours from beginning to end , he said . 
'Your very house was taken under a sham name . 
'It is not my house . 
I am my daughter's guest , replied the Admiral . 
'If it WERE my house 'Well ? said the Squire , 'what then ? hey ? The Admiral looked at him nobly , but was silent . 
'Look here , said Mr. Naseby , 'this intimidation is a waste of time it is thrown away on me , sir it will not succeed with me . 
I will not permit you even to gain time by your fencing . 
Now , sir , I presume you understand what brings me here . 
'I am entirely at a loss to account for your intrusion , bows and waves Van Tromp . 
'I will try to tell you then . 
I come here as a father' down came the riding whip upon the table 'I have right and justice upon my side . 
I understand your calculations , but you calculated without me . 
I am a man of the world , and I see through you and your manoeuvres . 
I am dealing now with a conspiracy I stigmatise it as such , and I will expose it and crush it . 
And now I order you to tell me how far things have gone , and whither you have smuggled my unhappy son . 
'My God , sir ! Van Tromp broke out , 'I have had about enough of this . 
Name your business distinctly , and be off . 
'How often am I to tell you ? cried the Squire . 
'Where did your daughter take my son to day in that cursed pony carriage ? 'In a pony carriage ? repeated Van Tromp . 
'Yes , sir with luggage . 
'Luggage ? Van Tromp had turned a little pale . 
'Luggage , I said luggage ! shouted Naseby . 
'You may spare me this dissimulation . 
You are speaking to a father , sir , a father . 
'But , sir , if this be true , out came Van Tromp in a new key , 'it is I who have an explanation to demand ? 'Precisely . 
There is the conspiracy , retorted Naseby . 
'Oh ! he added , 'I am a man of the world . 
I can see through and through you . 
Van Tromp began to understand . 
'You speak a great deal about being a father , Mr. Naseby , said he 'I believe you forget that the appellation is common to both of us . 
For the first time I appreciate your base insinuations , and I despise them and you . 
The so called aristocracy of wealth , sir , I despise . 
I refuse to help you I refuse to be helped by you . 
And the Admiral stood forth in a halo . 
It was then that Dick entered . 
He had been waiting in the porch for some time back , and Esther had been listlessly standing by his side . 
He had put out his hand to bar her entrance , and she had submitted without surprise and though she seemed to listen , she scarcely appeared to comprehend . 
'What is all this ? he demanded . 
'Is this your father , Mr. Naseby ? inquired the Admiral . 
'It is , said the young man . 
'I make you my compliments , returned Van Tromp . 
'Dick ! cried his father , suddenly breaking forth , 'it is not too late , is it ? I have come here in time to save you . 
Come , come away with me come away from this place . 
And he fawned upon Dick with his hands . 
'Keep your hands off me , cried Dick , not meaning unkindness , but because his nerves were shattered by so many successive miseries . 
'No , no , said the old man , 'don't repulse your father , Dick , when he has come here to save you . 
Don't repulse me , my boy . 
Perhaps I have not been kind to you , not quite considerate , too harsh my boy , it was not for want of love . 
I was kind to you then , was I not ? When you were a child , and your mother was with us . 
Mr. Naseby was interrupted by a sort of sob . 
Dick stood looking at him in a maze . 
'Come away , pursued the father in a whisper 'you need not be afraid of any consequences . 
He had been trying to get Dick towards the door , but the latter stood off . 
'You had better take care , sir , how you insult that lady , said the son , as black as night . 
'You would not choose between your father and your mistress ? said the father . 
'What do you call her , sir ? cried Dick , high and clear . 
Forbearance and patience were not among Mr. Naseby's qualities . 
'I called her your mistress , he shouted , 'and I might have called her a 'That is an unmanly lie , replied Dick , slowly . 
'Dick , said the old man at last , in a voice that was shaken as by a gale of wind , 'I am going . 
I leave you with your friends , sir with your friends . 
I came to serve you , and now I go away a broken man . 
For years I have seen this coming , and now it has come . 
Now you have been the death of me . 
You may boast of that . 
With that he was gone and the three who remained together heard his horse's hoofs descend the lane . 
'You are a man of spirit , sir , said he to Dick 'but though I am no friend to parental interference , I will say that you were heavy on the governor . 
Then he added with a chuckle 'You began , Richard , with a silver spoon , and here you are in the water like the rest . 
Work , work , nothing like work . 
You have parts , you have manners why , with application you may die a millionaire ! Dick shook himself . 
He took Esther by the hand , looking at her mournfully . 
'Then this is farewell , he said . 
There was no tone in her voice , and she did not return his gaze . 
'For ever , added Dick . 
'For ever , she repeated mechanically . 
'I have had hard measure , he continued . 
'In time I believe I could have shown you I was worthy , and there was no time long enough to show how much I loved you . 
But it was not to be . 
He relinquished her hand , still looking at her , and she turned to leave the room . 
'Why , what in fortune's name is the meaning of all this ? cried Van Tromp . 
'Esther come back ! 'Let her go , said Dick , and he watched her disappear with strangely mingled feelings . 
It is one of the many minor forms of suicide . 
'She did not love me , he said , turning to her father . 
'I feared as much , said he , 'when I sounded her . 
Poor Dick , poor Dick . 
And yet I believe I am as much cut up as you are . 
I was born to see others happy . 
'You forget , returned Dick , with something like a sneer , 'that I am now a pauper . 
Van Tromp snapped his fingers . 
'Tut ! said he 'Esther has plenty for us all . 
Dick looked at him with some wonder . 
'Now , said Dick , 'I must go . 
'Go ? cried Van Tromp . 
'Where ? Not one foot , Mr. Richard Naseby . 
Here you shall stay in the meantime ! and well , and do something practical advertise for a situation as private secretary and when you have it , go and welcome . 
But in the meantime , sir , no false pride we must stay with our friends we must sponge a while on Papa Van Tromp , who has sponged so often upon us . 
'By God , cried Dick , 'I believe you are the best of the lot . 
'Dick , my boy , replied the Admiral , winking , 'you mark me , I am not the worst . 
'Then why , began Dick , and then paused . 
'But Esther , he began again , once more to interrupt himself . 
'The fact is , Admiral , he came out with it roundly now , 'your daughter wished to run away from you to day , and I only brought her back with difficulty . 
'In the pony carriage ? asked the Admiral , with the silliness of extreme surprise . 
'Why , what the devil was she running away from ? Dick found the question unusually hard to answer . 
'Why , said he , 'you know , you're a bit of a rip . 
'I behave to that girl , sir , like an archdeacon , replied Van Tromp warmly . 
'Well excuse me but you know you drink , insisted Dick . 
'I know that I was a sheet in the wind's eye , sir , once once only , since I reached this place , retorted the Admiral . 
'And even then I was fit for any drawing room . 
'You see , Dick tried it again , 'she has fancies 'Confound her fancies ! cried Van Tromp . 
'I used her kindly she had her own way I was her father . 
Besides I had taken quite a liking to the girl , and meant to stay with her for good . 
'I never was unkind to a living soul , replied the Admiral . 
'Firm I can be , but not unkind . 
'Well , said Dick , offering his hand , 'God bless you , and farewell . 
The Admiral swore by all his gods he should not go . 
'Dick , he said , 'You are a selfish dog you forget your old Admiral . 
'I have to ask pardon for this intrusion , Mr. Naseby , he said 'but I come here to perform a duty . 
My card has been sent in , but perhaps you may not know , what it does not tell you , that I am the editor of the THYMEBURY STAR . 
Mr. Naseby looked up , indignant . 
'I cannot fancy , he said , 'that we have much in common to discuss . 
'I have only a word to say one piece of information to communicate . 
Some months ago , we had you will pardon my referring to it , it is absolutely necessary but we had an unfortunate difference as to facts . 
'Have you come to apologise ? asked the Squire , sternly . 
'No , sir to mention a circumstance . 
On the morning in question , your son , Mr. Richard Naseby 'I do not permit his name to be mentioned . 
'You will , however , permit me , replied the Editor . 
'You are cruel , said the Squire . 
He was right , he was a broken man . 
And oh , sir , he went on , 'if you had seen him speaking up for you , I am sure you would have been proud of your son . 
I know I admired the lad myself , and indeed that's what brings me here . 
'I have misjudged him , said the Squire . 
'Do you know where he is ? 'Yes , sir , he lies sick at Thymebury . 
'You can take me to him ? 'I can . 
'I pray God he may forgive me , said the father . 
And he and the Editor made post haste for the country town . 
Next day the report went abroad that Mr. Richard was reconciled to his father and had been taken home to Naseby House . 
He was still ailing , it was said , and the Squire nursed him like the proverbial woman . 
The Admiral and his daughter were both within , and both looked upon their visitor with more surprise than favour . 
'Sir , said he to Van Tromp , 'I am told I have done you much injustice . 
There came a little sound in Esther's throat , and she put her hand suddenly to her heart . 
'You have , sir and the acknowledgment suffices , replied the Admiral . 
'I am prepared , sir , to be easy with you , since I hear you have made it up with my friend Dick . 
But let me remind you that you owe some apologies to this young lady also . 
'I shall have the temerity to ask for more than her forgiveness , said the Squire . 
I have heard much of you since then for you have a fervent advocate in my house . 
I believe you will understand that I speak of my son . 
Come now , forgive him ! I was angry with him once myself , and I found I was in the wrong . 
This is only a misunderstanding , like the other , believe me and with one kind movement , you may give happiness to him , and to me , and to yourself . 
Esther made a movement towards the door , but long before she reached it she had broken forth sobbing . 
'It is all right , said the Admiral 'I understand the sex . 
Let me make you my compliments , Mr. Naseby . 
The Squire was too much relieved to be angry . 
'My dear , said he to Esther , 'you must not agitate yourself . 
'She had better go up and see him right away , suggested Van Tromp . 
'I had not ventured to propose it , replied the Squire . 
'LES CONVENANCES , I believe 'JE M'EN FICHE , cried the Admiral , snapping his fingers . 
'She shall go and see my friend Dick . 
Run and get ready , Esther . 
'She has not has not run away again ? inquired Mr. Naseby , as soon as she was gone . 
'No , said Van Tromp , 'not again . 
She is a devilish odd girl though , mind you that . 
'But I cannot stomach the man with the carbuncles , thought the Squire . 
