The Lesson of the Master by Henry James Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
The servant had so far accompanied Paul Overt as to introduce him to this view , after asking him if he wished first to go to his room . 
The young man declined that privilege , conscious of no disrepair from so short and easy a journey and always liking to take at once a general perceptive possession of a new scene . 
But that lady , who's SHE ? he said to the servant before the man left him . 
I think she's Mrs. St . 
George , the wife of the distinguished Then Paul Overt checked himself , doubting if a footman would know . 
Yes , sir probably , sir , said his guide , who appeared to wish to intimate that a person staying at Summersoft would naturally be , if only by alliance , distinguished . 
His tone , however , made poor Overt himself feel for the moment scantly so . 
And the gentlemen ? Overt went on . 
Well , sir , one of them's General Fancourt . 
Ah yes , I know thank you . 
It all went together and spoke in one voice a rich English voice of the early part of the eighteenth century . 
When Paul Overt became aware that the people under the trees had noticed him he turned back through the open doors into the great gallery which was the pride of the place . 
George might be a member of the party . 
After he had taken a turn or two up and down the gallery he came out again and descended the steps . 
There was a fine English awkwardness in this he felt that too as he sauntered vaguely and obliquely across the lawn , taking an independent line . 
Fortunately there was an equally fine English directness in the way one of the gentlemen presently rose and made as if to stalk him , though with an air of conciliation and reassurance . 
To this demonstration Paul Overt instantly responded , even if the gentleman were not his host . 
He was tall , straight and elderly and had , like the great house itself , a pink smiling face , and into the bargain a white moustache . 
Our young man met him halfway while he laughed and said Er Lady Watermouth told us you were coming she asked me just to look after you . 
Paul Overt thanked him , liking him on the spot , and turned round with him to walk toward the others . 
They've all gone to church all except us , the stranger continued as they went we're just sitting here it's so jolly . 
Overt pronounced it jolly indeed it was such a lovely place . 
He mentioned that he was having the charming impression for the first time . 
Ah you've not been here before ? said his companion . 
It's a nice little place not much to DO , you know . 
Overt wondered what he wanted to do he felt that he himself was doing so much . 
He would naturally have a need for action , for deeds at variance with the pacific pastoral scene . 
He was evidently so good natured , however , that he accepted the inglorious hour for what it was worth . 
It was all sociable and slow , as was right and natural of a warm Sunday morning . 
His first attention was given to the question , privately considered , of whether one of the two younger men would be Henry St . 
He knew many of his distinguished contemporaries by their photographs , but had never , as happened , seen a portrait of the great misguided novelist . 
One of the gentlemen was unimaginable he was too young and the other scarcely looked clever enough , with such mild undiscriminating eyes . 
If those eyes were St . 
George's the problem , presented by the ill matched parts of his genius would be still more difficult of solution . 
Paul Overt had a dread of being grossly proud , but even morbid modesty might view the authorship of Ginistrella as constituting a degree of identity . 
And now you remain in England ? the young man asked . 
Oh yes I've bought a small house in London . 
And I hope you like it , said Overt , looking at Mrs. St . 
Well , a little house in Manchester Square there's a limit to the enthusiasm THAT inspires . 
Oh I meant being at home again being back in Piccadilly . 
My daughter likes Piccadilly that's the main thing . 
She's very fond of art and music and literature and all that kind of thing . 
She missed it in India and she finds it in London , or she hopes she'll find it . 
George has promised to help her he has been awfully kind to her . 
She has gone to church she's fond of that too but they'll all be back in a quarter of an hour . 
You must let me introduce you to her she'll be so glad to know you . 
I dare say she has read every blest word you've written . 
I shall be delighted I haven't written so very many , Overt pleaded , feeling , and without resentment , that the General at least was vagueness itself about that . 
But he wondered a little why , expressing this friendly disposition , it didn't occur to the doubtless eminent soldier to pronounce the word that would put him in relation with Mrs. St . 
If it was a question of introductions Miss Fancourt apparently as yet unmarried was far away , while the wife of his illustrious confrere was almost between them . 
This lady struck Paul Overt as altogether pretty , with a surprising juvenility and a high smartness of aspect , something that he could scarcely have said why served for mystification . 
But he had never before seen her look so much as if her prosperity had deeper foundations than an ink spotted study table littered with proof sheets . 
Overt numbered her years at first as some thirty , and then ended by believing that she might approach her fiftieth . 
But she somehow in this case juggled away the excess and the difference you only saw them in a rare glimpse , like the rabbit in the conjurer's sleeve . 
She looked as if she had put on her best clothes to go to church and then had decided they were too good for that and had stayed at home . 
He felt he should have understood her better if he might have met her eye but she scarcely so much as glanced at him . 
But if we're good the others are better . 
They must be angels then , said the amused General . 
Your husband was an angel , the way he went off at your bidding , the gentleman who had first spoken declared to Mrs. St . 
At my bidding ? Didn't you make him go to church ? I never made him do anything in my life but once when I made him burn up a bad book . 
That's all ! At her That's all ! our young friend broke into an irrepressible laugh it lasted only a second , but it drew her eyes to him . 
A bad book ? her interlocutor repeated . 
He went to church because your daughter went , she continued to General Fancourt . 
I think it my duty to call your attention to his extraordinary demonstrations to your daughter . 
Well , if you don't mind them I don't , the General laughed . 
Il s'attache e ses pas . 
But I don't wonder she's so charming . 
I hope she won't make him burn any books ! Paul Overt ventured to exclaim . 
If she'd make him write a few it would be more to the purpose , said Mrs. St . 
He has been of a laziness of late ! Our young man stared he was so struck with the lady's phraseology . 
Her Write a few seemed to him almost as good as her That's all . 
But before he had spoken a diversion was effected by the return of the absentees . 
They strolled up dispersedly there were eight or ten of them and the circle under the trees rearranged itself as they took their place in it . 
That's my daughter that one opposite , the General said to him without lose of time . 
It had therefore somehow the stamp of the latest thing , so that our beholder quickly took her for nothing if not contemporaneous . 
She's very handsome very handsome , he repeated while he considered her . 
There was something noble in her head , and she appeared fresh and strong . 
Her good father surveyed her with complacency , remarking soon She looks too hot that's her walk . 
But she'll be all right presently . 
Then I'll make her come over and speak to you . 
I should be sorry to give you that trouble . 
If you were to take me over THERE ! the young man murmured . 
My dear sir , do you suppose I put myself out that way ? I don't mean for you , but for Marian , the General added . 
I would put myself out for her soon enough , Overt replied after which he went on Will you be so good as to tell me which of those gentlemen is Henry St . 
George ? The fellow talking to my girl . 
By Jove , he IS making up to her they're going off for another walk . 
As soon as the reality dawned the mental image , retiring with a sigh , became substantial enough to suffer a slight wrong . 
George was not one of the exceptions that circumstance he definitely apprehended before the great man had turned his back to walk off with Miss Fancourt . 
He certainly looked better behind than any foreign man of letters showed for beautifully correct in his tall black hat and his superior frock coat . 
His superficial sense was that their owner might have passed for a lucky stockbroker a gentleman driving eastward every morning from a sanitary suburb in a smart dog cart . 
That carried out the impression already derived from his wife . 
Paul's glance , after a moment , travelled back to this lady , and he saw how her own had followed her husband as he moved off with Miss Fancourt . 
Overt permitted himself to wonder a little if she were jealous when another woman took him away . 
Then he made out that Mrs. St . 
George wasn't glaring at the indifferent maiden . 
Her eyes rested but on her husband , and with unmistakeable serenity . 
That was the way she wanted him to be she liked his conventional uniform . 
Overt longed to hear more about the book she had induced him to destroy . 
With the other hand he possessed himself all paternally of the young lady . 
You know all about him . 
I've seen you with his books . 
She reads everything everything ! he went on to Paul . 
The girl smiled at him and then laughed at her father . 
The General turned away and his daughter spoke Isn't papa delightful ? He is indeed , Miss Fancourt . 
As if I read you because I read 'everything' ! Oh I don't mean for saying that , said Paul Overt . 
I liked him from the moment he began to be kind to me . 
Then he promised me this privilege . 
It isn't for you he means it it's for me . 
If you flatter yourself that he thinks of anything in life but me you'll find you're mistaken . 
You speak just like him , laughed our youth . 
Ah but sometimes I want to and the girl coloured . 
I don't read everything I read very little . 
But I HAVE read you . 
Suppose we go into the gallery , said Paul Overt . 
Something else had come with it a sense of generosity , of an enthusiasm which , unlike many enthusiasms , was not all manner . 
That was not spoiled for him by his seeing that the repast had placed her again in familiar contact with Henry St . 
Sitting next her this celebrity was also opposite our young man , who had been able to note that he multiplied the attentions lately brought by his wife to the General's notice . 
Paul Overt had gathered as well that this lady was not in the least discomposed by these fond excesses and that she gave every sign of an unclouded spirit . 
Pretty women were a clear need to this genius , and for the hour it was Miss Fancourt who supplied the want . 
If Overt had promised himself a closer view the occasion was now of the best , and it brought consequences felt by the young man as important . 
He saw more in St . 
George's face , which he liked the better for its not having told its whole story in the first three minutes . 
There were shades of meaning in it and a vague perspective of history which receded as you advanced . 
Two facts Paul had particularly heeded . 
, whereas the quiet face had a charm that grew in proportion as stillness settled again . 
George had a light hand or the air of being younger than he was , or else that Miss Fancourt's own manner somehow made everything right . 
Such a place as that had the added merit of giving those who came into it plenty to talk about . 
To thank me ? He had to wonder . 
I liked your book so much . 
She sat there smiling at him , and he never asked himself which book she meant for after all he had written three or four . 
That seemed a vulgar detail , and he wasn't even gratified by the idea of the pleasure she told him her handsome bright face told him he had given her . 
The feeling she appealed to , or at any rate the feeling she excited , was something larger , something that had little to do with any quickened pulsation of his own vanity . 
He was conscious he should have liked better to please her in some other way . 
The lines of her face were those of a woman grown , but the child lingered on in her complexion and in the sweetness of her mouth . 
The girl was really more candid than her costume , and the best proof of it was her supposing her liberal character suited by any uniform . 
This was a fallacy , since if she was draped as a pessimist he was sure she liked the taste of life . 
He thanked her for her appreciation aware at the same time that he didn't appear to thank her enough and that she might think him ungracious . 
But he liked her so much as to feel a confidence that in the long run he should be able to show her he wasn't rudely evasive . 
Moreover she surely wasn't quick to take offence , wasn't irritable she could be trusted to wait . 
George isn't he delightful ? Paul Overt met her eyes , which had a cool morning light that would have half broken his heart if he hadn't been so young . 
Alas I don't know him . 
I only admire him at a distance . 
Paul saw how she would always calculate on everything's being simple between others . 
I shouldn't have supposed he knew anything about me , he professed . 
And if he didn't I should be able to tell him . 
To tell him everything ? our friend smiled . 
You talk just like the people in your book ! she answered . 
Then they must all talk alike . 
She thought a moment , not a bit disconcerted . 
Well , it must be so difficult . 
George tells me it IS terribly . 
I've tried too and I find it so . 
I've tried to write a novel . 
George oughtn't to discourage you , Paul went so far as to say . 
You do much more when you wear that expression . 
Well , after all , why try to be an artist ? the young man pursued . 
It's so poor so poor ! I don't know what you mean , said Miss Fancourt , who looked grave . 
I mean as compared with being a person of action as living your works . 
But what's art but an intense life if it be real ? she asked . 
I think it's the only one everything else is so clumsy ! Her companion laughed , and she brought out with her charming serenity what next struck her . 
It's so interesting to meet so many celebrated people . 
So I should think but surely it isn't new to you . 
Why I've never seen any one any one living always in Asia . 
The way she talked of Asia somehow enchanted him . 
I was with my father , after I left school to go out there . 
It was delightful being with him we're alone together in the world , he and I but there was none of the society I like best . 
One never heard of a picture never of a book , except bad ones . 
Never of a picture ? Why , wasn't all life a picture ? She looked over the delightful place where they sat . 
Nothing to compare to this . 
I adore England ! she cried . 
It fairly stirred in him the sacred chord . 
Ah of course I don't deny that we must do something with her , poor old dear , yet . 
She hasn't been touched , really , said the girl . 
Yes , he says England hasn't been touched not considering all there is , she went on eagerly . 
He's so interesting about our country . 
To listen to him makes one want so to do something . 
George's lips , such a speech might be . 
Oh you as if you hadn't ! I should like so to hear you talk together , she added ardently . 
That's very genial of you but he'd have it all his own way . 
She had an air of earnestness . 
Do you think then he's so perfect ? Far from it . 
Some of his later books seem to me of a queerness ! Yes , yes he knows that . 
That they seem to me of a queerness ! Well yes , or at any rate that they're not what they should be . 
He told me he didn't esteem them . 
He has told me such wonderful things he's so interesting . 
His consideration was half composed of tenderness for superficialities which he was sure their perpetrator judged privately , judged more ferociously than any one , and which represented some tragic intellectual secret . 
I have my reserves , I discriminate but I love him , Paul said in a moment . 
And seeing him for the first time this way is a great event for me . 
How momentous how magnificent ! cried the girl . 
How delicious to bring you together ! Your doing it that makes it perfect , our friend returned . 
He's as eager as you , she went on . 
But it's so odd you shouldn't have met . 
It's not really so odd as it strikes you . 
I've been out of England so much made repeated absences all these last years . 
She took this in with interest . 
And yet you write of it as well as if you were always here . 
It's just the being away perhaps . 
At any rate the best bits , I suspect , are those that were done in dreary places abroad . 
And why were they dreary ? Because they were health resorts where my poor mother was dying . 
Your poor mother ? she was all sweet wonder . 
We went from place to place to help her to get better . 
to the high Alps , to Algiers , and far away a hideous journey to Colorado . 
And she isn't better ? Miss Fancourt went on . 
She died a year ago . 
Really ? like mine ! Only that's years since . 
Some day you must tell me about your mother , she added . 
He could at first , on this , only gaze at her . 
What right things you say ! If you say them to St . 
George I don't wonder he's in bondage . 
It pulled her up for a moment . 
I don't know what you mean . 
He doesn't make speeches and professions at all he isn't ridiculous . 
I'm afraid you consider then that I am . 
No , I don't she spoke it rather shortly . 
And then she added He understands understands everything . 
Now you must know him , she went on . 
A small group of visitors had gathered at the other end of the gallery and had been there overtaken by Henry St . 
George , who strolled in from a neighbouring room . 
He stood near them a moment , not falling into the talk but taking up an old miniature from a table and vaguely regarding it . 
The gallery was so long that this transit took some little time , especially as there was a moment when he stopped to admire the fine Gainsborough . 
George has been the making of him , the girl continued in a voice slightly lowered . 
Ah he's often obscure ! Paul laughed . 
Obscure ? she repeated as if she heard it for the first time . 
Her eyes rested on her other friend , and it wasn't lost upon Paul that they appeared to send out great shafts of softness . 
He's going to speak to us ! she fondly breathed . 
There was a sort of rapture in her voice , and our friend was startled . 
Bless my soul , does she care for him like THAT ? is she in love with him ? he mentally enquired . 
Didn't I tell you he was eager ? she had meanwhile asked of him . 
It's eagerness dissimulated , the young man returned as the subject of their observation lingered before his Gainsborough . 
He edges toward us shyly . 
Does he mean that she saved him by burning that book ? That book ? what book did she burn ? The girl quickly turned her face to him . 
Hasn't he told you then ? Not a word . 
Then he doesn't tell you everything ! Paul had guessed that she pretty much supposed he did . 
The great man had now resumed his course and come nearer in spite of which his more qualified admirer risked a profane observation St . 
George and the Dragon is what the anecdote suggests ! His companion , however , didn't hear it she smiled at the dragon's adversary . 
He IS eager he is ! she insisted . 
But meanwhile she had called out I'm sure you want to know Mr. Overt . 
You'll be great friends , and it will always be delightful to me to remember I was here when you first met and that I had something to do with it . 
There was a freshness of intention in the words that carried them off nevertheless our young man was sorry for Henry St . 
George , as he was sorry at any time for any person publicly invited to be responsive and delightful . 
He would have been so touched to believe that a man he deeply admired should care a straw for him that he wouldn't play with such a presumption if it were possibly vain . 
George's happy personal art a manner of which it was the essence to conjure away false positions . 
It all took place in a moment . 
for being imposed by a charming but too gushing girl , attractive enough without such danglers . 
No irritation at any rate was reflected in the voice with which he questioned Miss Fancourt as to some project of a walk a general walk of the company round the park . 
Her husband had taken the advance with Miss Fancourt , and this pair were quite out of sight . 
It was the prettiest of rambles for a summer afternoon a grassy circuit , of immense extent , skirting the limit of the park within . 
The park was completely surrounded by its old mottled but perfect red wall , which , all the way on their left , constituted in itself an object of interest . 
She ran over the names of these and rang the changes on them with the facility of practice , making them appear an almost endless list . 
He got on with Ms. St . 
He had arrived at a glimmering of the answer when she announced that she must leave him , though this perception was of course provisional . 
George had protested that she wanted to be left alone and not to break up the party . 
A moment later she was walking off with Lord Masham . 
Our friend fell back and joined Lady Watermouth , to whom he presently mentioned that Mrs. St . 
George had been obliged to renounce the attempt to go further . 
She oughtn't to have come out at all , her ladyship rather grumpily remarked . 
Is she so very much of an invalid ? Very bad indeed . 
Paul Overt was a faithless smoker he would puff a cigarette for reasons with which tobacco had nothing to do . 
This was particularly the case on the occasion of which I speak his motive was the vision of a little direct talk with Henry St . 
He had , however , the disappointment of finding that apparently the author of Shadowmere was not disposed to prolong his vigil . 
He wasn't among the gentlemen assembled when Paul entered , nor was he one of those who turned up , in bright habiliments , during the next ten minutes . 
But he didn't arrive he must have been putting on something more extraordinary than was probable . 
Our hero gave him up , feeling a little injured , a little wounded , at this loss of twenty coveted words . 
He wasn't angry , but he puffed his cigarette sighingly , with the sense of something rare possibly missed . 
He wandered away with his regret and moved slowly round the room , looking at the old prints on the walls . 
In this attitude he presently felt a hand on his shoulder and a friendly voice in his ear This is good . 
I hoped I should find you . 
I came down on purpose . 
George was there without a change of dress and with a fine face his graver one to which our young man all in a flutter responded . 
Well , you know , I don't smoke my wife doesn't let me , said St . 
George , looking for a place to sit down . 
It's very good for me very good for me . 
Let us take that sofa . 
Do you mean smoking's good for you ? No no her not letting me . 
It's a great thing to have a wife who's so sure of all the things one can do without . 
One might never find them out one's self . 
She doesn't allow me to touch a cigarette . 
They took possession of a sofa at a distance from the group of smokers , and St . 
George went on Have you got one yourself ? Do you mean a cigarette ? Dear no a wife . 
No and yet I'd give up my cigarette for one . 
You'd give up a good deal more than that , St . 
However , you'd get a great deal in return . 
There's a something to be said for wives , he added , folding his arms and crossing his outstretched legs . 
He declined tobacco altogether and sat there without returning fire . 
His companion stopped smoking , touched by his courtesy and after all they were out of the fumes , their sofa was in a far away corner . 
It would have been a mistake , St . 
George went on , a great mistake for them to have separated without a little chat for I know all about you , he said , I know you're very remarkable . 
You've written a very distinguished book . 
And how do you know it ? Paul asked . 
Why , my dear fellow , it's in the air , it's in the papers , it's everywhere . 
George spoke with the immediate familiarity of a confrere a tone that seemed to his neighbour the very rustle of the laurel . 
You're on all men's lips and , what's better , on all women's . 
And I've just been reading your book . 
Just ? You hadn't read it this afternoon , said Overt . 
How do you know that ? I think you should know how I know it , the young man laughed . 
I suppose Miss Fancourt told you . 
No indeed she led me rather to suppose you had . 
Yes that's much more what she'd do . 
Doesn't she shed a rosy glow over life ? But you didn't believe her ? asked St . 
No , not when you came to us there . 
Did I pretend ? did I pretend badly ? But without waiting for an answer to this St . 
George went on You ought always to believe such a girl as that always , always . 
Some women are meant to be taken with allowances and reserves but you must take HER just as she is . 
I like her very much , said Paul Overt . 
Something in his tone appeared to excite on his companion's part a momentary sense of the absurd perhaps it was the air of deliberation attending this judgement . 
George broke into a laugh to reply . 
It's the best thing you can do with her . 
She's a rare young lady ! In point of fact , however , I confess I hadn't read you this afternoon . 
Then you see how right I was in this particular case not to believe Miss Fancourt . 
Ah , my dear young man , don't talk about passing for the likes of me ! I'm passing away nothing else than that . 
I'm going to be surprisingly better , Overt made bold to reply . 
I see that , and it's what fetches me . 
I don't see so much else as one looks about that's going to be surprisingly better . 
They're going to be consistently worse most of the things . 
It's so much easier to be worse heaven knows I've found it so . 
I'm not in a great glow , you know , about what's breaking out all over the place . 
But you MUST be better you really must keep it up . 
It's very difficult that's the devil of the whole thing , keeping it up . 
But I see you'll be able to . 
It will be a great disgrace if you don't . 
It's very interesting to hear you speak of yourself but I don't know what you mean by your allusions to your having fallen off , Paul Overt observed with pardonable hypocrisy . 
He liked his companion so much now that the fact of any decline of talent or of care had ceased for the moment to be vivid to him . 
Don't say that don't say that , St . 
George returned gravely , his head resting on the top of the sofa back and his eyes on the ceiling . 
You know perfectly what I mean . 
I haven't read twenty pages of your book without seeing that you can't help it . 
You make me very miserable , Paul ecstatically breathed . 
I'm glad of that , for it may serve as a kind of warning . 
Shocking enough it must be , especially to a young fresh mind , full of faith the spectacle of a man meant for better things sunk at my age in such dishonour . 
George , in the same contemplative attitude , spoke softly but deliberately , and without perceptible emotion . 
His tone indeed suggested an impersonal lucidity that was practically cruel cruel to himself and made his young friend lay an argumentative hand on his arm . 
But he went on while his eyes seemed to follow the graces of the eighteenth century ceiling Look at me well , take my lesson to heart for it IS a lesson . 
Let that good come of it at least that you shudder with your pitiful impression , and that this may help to keep you straight in the future . 
It has made me old . 
But I like your youth . 
Paul answered nothing they sat for a minute in silence . 
They heard the others going on about the governmental majority . 
Then What do you mean by false gods ? he enquired . 
Ah the vile things they make one do ! But surely one's right to want to place one's children . 
One has no business to have any children , St . 
I mean of course if one wants to do anything good . 
But aren't they an inspiration an incentive ? An incentive to damnation , artistically speaking . 
You touch on very deep things things I should like to discuss with you , Paul said . 
I should like you to tell me volumes about yourself . 
This is a great feast for ME ! Of course it is , cruel youth . 
You must come and see me you must come and see us , the Master quickly substituted . 
George is charming I don't know whether you've had any opportunity to talk with her . 
She'll be delighted to see you she likes great celebrities , whether incipient or predominant . 
You must come and dine my wife will write to you . 
Where are you to be found ? This is my little address and Overt drew out his pocketbook and extracted a visiting card . 
Ah you'll probably fail my wife's always out or when she isn't out is knocked up from having been out . 
You must come and dine though that won't do much good either , for my wife insists on big dinners . 
You've a house in the country ? Paul asked enviously . 
Ah not like this ! But we have a sort of place we go to an hour from Euston . 
That's one of the reasons . 
One of the reasons ? Why my books are so bad . 
You must tell me all the others ! Paul longingly laughed . 
His friend made no direct rejoinder to this , but spoke again abruptly . 
Partly , I suppose , because there has been no particular reason why you should see me . 
I haven't lived in the world in your world . 
I've spent many years out of England , in different places abroad . 
Well , please don't do it any more . 
You must do England there's such a lot of it . 
Do you mean I must write about it ? and Paul struck the note of the listening candour of a child . 
And tremendously well , do you mind ? That takes off a little of my esteem for this thing of yours that it goes on abroad . 
Hang 'abroad ! Stay at home and do things here do subjects we can measure . 
I'll do whatever you tell me , Overt said , deeply attentive . 
But pardon me if I say I don't understand how you've been reading my book , he added . 
George turned his face about with a smile . 
I gave it but a quarter of an hour . 
A quarter of an hour's immense , but I don't understand where you put it in . 
In the drawing room after dinner you weren't reading you were talking to Miss Fancourt . 
It comes to the same thing , because we talked about 'Ginistrella . 
She described it to me she lent me her copy . 
Lent it to you ? She travels with it . 
It's incredible , Paul blushed . 
It's glorious for you , but it also turned out very well for me . 
When the ladies went off to bed she kindly offered to send the book down to me . 
Her maid brought it to me in the hall and I went to my room with it . 
I hadn't thought of coming here , I do that so little . 
But I don't sleep early , I always have to read an hour or two . 
I sat down to your novel on the spot , without undressing , without taking off anything but my coat . 
I think that's a sign my curiosity had been strongly roused about it . 
I read a quarter of an hour , as I tell you , and even in a quarter of an hour I was greatly struck . 
Ah the beginning isn't very good it's the whole thing ! said Overt , who had listened to this recital with extreme interest . 
And you laid down the book and came after me ? he asked . 
That's the way it moved me . 
I said to myself 'I see it's off his own bat , and he's there , by the way , and the day's over and I haven't said twenty words to him . 
It occurred to me that you'd probably be in the smoking room and that it wouldn't be too late to repair my omission . 
I wanted to do something civil to you , so I put on my coat and came down . 
I shall read your book again when I go up . 
Our friend faced round in his place he was touched as he had scarce ever been by the picture of such a demonstration in his favour . 
You're really the kindest of men . 
She has made me feel as if I had read your novel . 
She's an angel from heaven ! Paul declared . 
I've never seen any one like her . 
Her interest in literature's touching something quite peculiar to herself she takes it all so seriously . 
She feels the arts and she wants to feel them more . 
To those who practise them it's almost humiliating her curiosity , her sympathy , her good faith . 
How can anything be as fine as she supposes it ? She's a rare organisation , the younger man sighed . 
The richest I've ever seen an artistic intelligence really of the first order . 
And lodged in such a form ! St . 
One would like to represent such a girl as that , Paul continued . 
Ah there it is there's nothing like life ! said his companion . 
But I shan't do it she's not for me ! How do you mean , not for you ? Oh it's all over she's for you , if you like . 
Ah much less ! said Paul . 
She's not for a dingy little man of letters she's for the world , the bright rich world of bribes and rewards . 
And the world will take hold of her it will carry her away . 
It will try but it's just a case in which there may be a fight . 
It would be worth fighting , for a man who had it in him , with youth and talent on his side . 
These words rang not a little in Paul Overt's consciousness they held him briefly silent . 
It's a wonder she has remained as she is giving herself away so with so much to give away . 
Remaining , you mean , so ingenuous so natural ? Oh she doesn't care a straw she gives away because she overflows . 
She has her own feelings , her own standards she doesn't keep remembering that she must be proud . 
And then she hasn't been here long enough to be spoiled she has picked up a fashion or two , but only the amusing ones . 
She's a provincial a provincial of genius , St . 
George went on her very blunders are charming , her mistakes are interesting . 
She has come back from Asia with all sorts of excited curiosities and unappeased appetities . 
She's first rate herself and she expends herself on the second rate . 
She's life herself and she takes a rare interest in imitations . 
She mixes all things up , but there are none in regard to which she hasn't perceptions . 
She sees things in a perspective as if from the top of the Himalayas and she enlarges everything she touches . 
Above all she exaggerates to herself , I mean . 
She exaggerates you and me ! There was nothing in that description to allay the agitation caused in our younger friend by such a sketch of a fine subject . 
It seemed to him to show the art of St . 
George's admired hand , and he lost himself in gazing at the vision this hovered there before him of a woman's figure which should be part of the glory of a novel . 
I suppose that when you fellows get talking you sit up half the night . 
Half the night ? jamais de la vie ! I follow a hygiene and St . 
George rose to his feet . 
I see you're hothouse plants , laughed the General . 
That's the way you produce your flowers . 
I produce mine between ten and one every morning I bloom with a regularity ! St . 
Evidently his great colleague had toughened and hardened had made himself a surface . 
It happened that they both declined upon which General Fancourt said Is that the hygiene ? You don't water the flowers ? Oh I should drown them ! St . 
George replied but , leaving the room still at his young friend's side , he added whimsically , for the latter's benefit , in a lower tone My wife doesn't let me . 
Well I'm glad I'm not one of you fellows ! the General richly concluded . 
George is so nice she has promised to ask us both to dinner together . 
Such things were not the full measure , but he nevertheless felt a little proud for literature . 
The drawings were admirable , but the crowd in the one little room was so dense that he felt himself up to his neck in a sack of wool . 
This contemplation sat especially in the sad eyes of certain female heads , surmounted with hats of strange convolution and plumage , which rose on long necks above the others . 
One of the heads Paul perceived , was much the so most beautiful of the collection , and his next discovery was that it belonged to Miss Fancourt . 
Its beauty was enhanced by the glad smile she sent him across surrounding obstructions , a smile that drew him to her as fast as he could make his way . 
Oh dear no , this isn't in my poor father's line . 
He has just left me to speak to some one he's coming back . 
Why he's a pere de famille . 
They've privileges , Paul explained . 
And then quickly Will you go to see places with ME ? he asked . 
Anything you like ! she smiled . 
I know what you mean , that girls have to have a lot of people Then she broke off I don't know I'm free . 
I've always been like that I can go about with any one . 
I'm so glad to meet you , she added with a sweet distinctness that made those near her turn round . 
Let me at least repay that speech by taking you out of this squash , her friend said . 
Surely people aren't happy here ! No , they're awfully mornes , aren't they ? But I'm very happy indeed and I promised Mr. St . 
George to remain in this spot till he comes back . 
He's going to take me away . 
They send him invitations for things of this sort more than he wants . 
It was so kind of him to think of me . 
They also send me invitations of this kind more than I want . 
And if thinking of YOU will do it ! Paul went on . 
Oh I delight in them everything that's life everything that's London ! They don't have private views in Asia , I suppose , he laughed . 
But what a pity that for this year , even in this gorged city , they're pretty well over . 
Well , next year will do , for I hope you believe we're going to be friends always . 
Here he comes ! Miss Fancourt continued before Paul had time to respond . 
George in the gaps of the crowd , and this perhaps led to his hurrying a little to say I hope that doesn't mean I'm to wait till next year to see you . 
No , no aren't we to meet at dinner on the twenty fifth ? she panted with an eagerness as happy as his own . 
Is there no means of seeing you before ? She stared with all her brightness . 
Miss Fancourt turned instantly to St . 
Yes , but not yours only . 
You shall meet in Manchester Square you shall talk you shall be wonderful ! We don't meet often enough , St . 
George allowed , shaking hands with his disciple . 
Too many things ah too many things ! But we must make it up in the country in September . 
You won't forget you've promised me that ? Why he's coming on the twenty fifth you'll see him then , said the girl . 
On the twenty fifth ? St . 
We dine with you I hope you haven't forgotten . 
He's dining out that day , she added gaily to Paul . 
Oh bless me , yes that's charming ! And you're coming ? My wife didn't tell me , St . 
Too many things too many things ! he repeated . 
Too many people too many people ! Paul exclaimed , giving ground before the penetration of an elbow . 
You oughtn't to say that . 
Me ? I should like to see them ! Only two or three at most , the young man returned . 
Did you ever hear anything like that ? He knows , haughtily , how good he is ! St . 
George declared , laughing to Miss Fancourt . 
They read ME , but that doesn't make me like them any better . 
Come away from them , come away ! And he led the way out of the exhibition . 
He's going to take me to the Park , Miss Fancourt observed to Overt with elation as they passed along the corridor that led to the street . 
Ah does he go there ? Paul asked , taking the fact for a somewhat unexpected illustration of St . 
It's a beautiful day there'll be a great crowd . 
We're going to look at the people , to look at types , the girl went on . 
We shall sit under the trees we shall walk by the Row . 
I go once a year on business , said St . 
George , who had overheard Paul's question . 
The young man watched them get in he returned , as he stood there , the friendly wave of the hand with which , ensconced in the vehicle beside her , St . 
George took leave of him . 
He even lingered to see the vehicle start away and lose itself in the confusion of Bond Street . 
He followed it with his eyes it put to him embarrassing things . 
She's not for ME ! the great novelist had said emphatically at Summersoft but his manner of conducting himself toward her appeared not quite in harmony with such a conviction . 
How much he should like to rattle about London with such a girl ! How much he should like to go and look at types with St . 
George ! The next Sunday at four o'clock he called in Manchester Square , where his secret wish was gratified by his finding Miss Fancourt alone . 
of the young lady herself , commemorating with a brave breadth the sunsets , the mountains , the temples and palaces of India . 
He sat an hour more than an hour , two hours and all the while no one came in . 
Too many things too many things ! Paul said , quoting St . 
George's exclamation of a few days before . 
Ah yes , for him there are too many his life's too complicated . 
Have you seen it NEAR ? That's what I should like to do it might explain some mysteries , her visitor went on . 
She asked him what mysteries he meant , and he said Oh peculiarities of his work , inequalities , superficialities . 
For one who looks at it from the artistic point of view it contains a bottomless ambiguity . 
She became at this , on the spot , all intensity . 
Ah do describe that more it's so interesting . 
There are no such suggestive questions . 
I'm so fond of them . 
He thinks he's a failure fancy ! she beautifully wailed . 
That depends on what his ideal may have been . 
With his gifts it ought to have been high . 
But till one knows what he really proposed to himself ? Do YOU know by chance ? the young man broke off . 
Oh he doesn't talk to me about himself . 
At home ? I mean in his relations with his wife . 
He has a mystifying little way of alluding to her . 
Not to me , said Marian Fancourt with her clear eyes . 
That wouldn't be right , would it ? she asked gravely . 
Not particularly so I'm glad he doesn't mention her to you . 
To praise her might bore you , and he has no business to do anything else . 
Yet he knows you better than me . 
Ah but he respects YOU ! the girl cried as with envy . 
Her visitor stared a moment , then broke into a laugh . 
Doesn't he respect you ? Of course , but not in the same way . 
He respects what you've done he told me so , the other day . 
Paul drank it in , but retained his faculties . 
When you went to look at types ? Yes we found so many he has such an observation of them ! He talked a great deal about your book . 
He says it's really important . 
Important ! Ah the grand creature ! and the author of the work in question groaned for joy . 
He was wonderfully amusing , he was inexpressibly droll , while we walked about . 
He sees everything he has so many comparisons and images , and they're always exactly right . 
C'est d'un trouve , as they say . 
Yes , with his gifts , such things as he ought to have done ! Paul sighed . 
And don't you think he HAS done them ? Ah it was just the point . 
A part of them , and of course even that part's immense . 
But he might have been one of the greatest . 
However , let us not make this an hour of qualifications . 
Even as they stand , our friend earnestly concluded , his writings are a mine of gold . 
To this proposition she ardently responded , and for half an hour the pair talked over the Master's principal productions . 
She knew them well she knew them even better than her visitor , who was struck with her critical intelligence and with something large and bold in the movement in her mind . 
She said things that startled him and that evidently had come to her directly they weren't picked up phrases she placed them too well . 
George had been right about her being first rate , about her not being afraid to gush , not remembering that she must be proud . 
Suddenly something came back to her , and she said I recollect that he did speak of Mrs. St . 
He said , apropos of something or other , that she didn't care for perfection . 
That's a great crime in an artist's wife , Paul returned . 
Yes , poor thing ! and the girl sighed with a suggestion of many reflexions , some of them mitigating . 
But she presently added Ah perfection , perfection how one ought to go in for it ! I wish I could . 
Every one can in his way , her companion opined . 
In HIS way , yes but not in hers . 
So these two young persons sat discussing high themes in their eclectic drawing room , in their London season discussing , with extreme seriousness , the high theme of perfection . 
It must be said in extenuation of this eccentricity that they were interested in the business . 
Their tone had truth and their emotion beauty they weren't posturing for each other or for some one else . 
Our young woman's imagination , it appeared , had wandered far in that direction , and her guest had the rare delight of feeling in their conversation a full interchange . 
He remembers where certain things stood , the particular book open on the table and the almost intense odour of the flowers placed , at the left , somewhere behind him . 
Modern she was indeed , and made Paul Overt , who loved old colour , the golden glaze of time , think with some alarm of the muddled palette of the future . 
One might stray into the desert easily that was on the cards and that was the law of life but it was too rare an accident to stumble on a crystal well . 
Yet if her aspirations seemed at one moment too extravagant to be real they struck him at the next as too intelligent to be false . 
They were both high and lame , and , whims for whims , he preferred them to any he had met in a like relation . 
Meanwhile , however , he had fallen in love with her . 
Before he went away , at any rate , he said to her I thought St . 
George was coming to see you to day , but he doesn't turn up . 
She only replied Ah yes , but I don't think he'll come . 
He recommended me not to expect him . 
Then she gaily but all gently added He said it wasn't fair to you . 
But I think I could manage two . 
So could I , Paul Overt returned , stretching the point a little to meet her . 
In reality his appreciation of the occasion was so completely an appreciation of the woman before him that another figure in the scene , even so esteemed a one as St . 
George , might for the hour have appealed to him vainly . 
She promised to let him know should their absence fail , and then he might act accordingly . 
After he had passed into one of the streets that open from the Square he stopped , without definite intentions , looking sceptically for a cab . 
In a moment he saw a hansom roll through the place from the other side and come a part of the way toward him . 
The house was apparently the one he himself had just quitted at least he drew that inference as he recognised Henry St . 
George in the person who stepped out of the hansom . 
Paul turned off as quickly as if he had been caught in the act of spying . 
He gave up his cab he preferred to walk he would go nowhere else . 
George hadn't renounced his visit altogether that would have been too absurd . 
He himself might use that hour for another visit , but by the time he reached the Marble Arch the idea of such a course had become incongruous to him . 
He passed beneath that architectural effort and walked into the Park till he got upon the spreading grass . 
Here he continued to walk he took his way across the elastic turf and came out by the Serpentine . 
He repaired for this purpose , very late , to his club , where he found himself unable to order a repast and told the waiter to bring whatever there was . 
He didn't even observe what he was served with , and he spent the evening in the library of the establishment , pretending to read an article in an American magazine . 
He failed to discover what it was about it appeared in a dim way to be about Marian Fancourt . 
Quite late in the week she wrote to him that she was not to go into the country it had only just been settled . 
Her father , she added , would never settle anything , but put it all on her . 
She felt her responsibility she had to and since she was forced this was the way she had decided . 
She mentioned no reasons , which gave our friend all the clearer field for bold conjecture about them . 
In Manchester Square on this second Sunday he esteemed his fortune less good , for she had three or four other visitors . 
And then her presence was her presence , and the personal red room was there and was full of it , whatever phantoms passed and vanished , emitting incomprehensible sounds . 
Lastly , he had the resource of staying till every one had come and gone and of believing this grateful to her , though she gave no particular sign . 
When they were alone together he came to his point . 
George did come last Sunday . 
I saw him as I looked back . 
Yes but it was the last time . 
The last time ? He said he would never come again . 
Does he mean he wishes to cease to see you ? I don't know what he means , the girl bravely smiled . 
He won't at any rate see me here . 
And pray why not ? I haven't the least idea , said Marian Fancourt , whose visitor found her more perversely sublime than ever yet as she professed this clear helplessness . 
CHAPTER V Oh I say , I want you to stop a little , Henry St . 
George said to him at eleven o'clock the night he dined with the head of the profession . 
Paul Overt was all delight at this kindness nevertheless he mentioned in weak jocose qualification the bare fact that he had promised to go to another place which was at a considerable distance . 
Well then you'll break your promise , that's all . 
You quite awful humbug ! St . 
George added in a tone that confirmed our young man's ease . 
Certainly I'll break it but it was a real promise . 
Do you mean to Miss Fancourt ? You're following her ? his friend asked . 
He answered by a question . 
Oh is SHE going ? Base impostor ! his ironic host went on . 
I've treated you handsomely on the article of that young lady I won't make another concession . 
Wait three minutes I'll be with you . 
He gave himself to his departing guests , accompanied the long trained ladies to the door . 
It was a hot night , the windows were open , the sound of the quick carriages and of the linkmen's call came into the house . 
George's drawing room emptied itself Paul was left alone with his hostess , to whom he explained the motive of his waiting . 
When he turned round Mrs. St . 
George had disappeared her husband's voice rose to him from below he was laughing and talking , in the portico , with some lady who awaited her carriage . 
They were large , they were pretty , they contained objects of value everything in the picture told of a good house . 
The servant gave him a coat , an old jacket with a hang of experience , from a cupboard in the wall , retiring afterwards with the garment he had taken off . 
Paul Overt welcomed the coat it was a coat for talk , it promised confidences having visibly received so many and had tragic literary elbows . 
Ah we're practical we're practical ! St . 
George said as he saw his visitor look the place over . 
Isn't it a good big cage for going round and round ? My wife invented it and she locks me up here every morning . 
Our young man breathed by way of tribute with a certain oppression . 
You don't miss a window a place to look out ? I did at first awfully but her calculation was just . 
It saves time , it has saved me many months in these ten years . 
Here I stand , under the eye of day in London of course , very often , it's rather a bleared old eye walled in to my trade . 
I can't get away so the room's a fine lesson in concentration . 
I've learnt the lesson , I think look at that big bundle of proof and acknowledge it . 
He pointed to a fat roll of papers , on one of the tables , which had not been undone . 
Are you bringing out another ? Paul asked in a tone the fond deficiencies of which he didn't recognise till his companion burst out laughing , and indeed scarce even then . 
You humbug , you humbug ! St . 
George appeared to enjoy caressing him , as it were , with that opprobrium . 
Don't I know what you think of them ? he asked , standing there with his hands in his pockets and with a new kind of smile . 
It was as if he were going to let his young votary see him all now . 
I want to ask you something very much indeed I value this chance . 
We're practical , but there IS a sofa , you see for she does humour my poor bones so far . 
Like all really great administrators and disciplinarians she knows when wisely to relax . 
Paul sank into the corner of a deep leathern couch , but his friend remained standing and explanatory . 
If you don't mind , in this room , this is my habit . 
From the door to the desk and from the desk to the door . 
Oh we're practical we're practical ! St . 
George repeated , going to the table and taking up all mechanically the bundle of proofs . 
But , pulling off the wrapper , he had a change of attention that appealed afresh to our hero . 
He lost himself a moment , examining the sheets of his new book , while the younger man's eyes wandered over the room again . 
Lord , what good things I should do if I had such a charming place as this to do them in ! Paul reflected . 
A happy relation with him would be a thing proceeding by jumps , not by traceable stages . 
Do you read them really ? he asked , laying down the proofs on Paul's enquiring of him how soon the work would be published . 
And when the young man answered Oh yes , always , he was moved to mirth again by something he caught in his manner of saying that . 
You go to see your grandmother on her birthday and very proper it is , especially as she won't last for ever . 
She has lost every faculty and every sense she neither sees , nor hears , nor speaks but all customary pieties and kindly habits are respectable . 
Only you're strong if you DO read 'em ! I couldn't , my dear fellow . 
You are strong , I know and that's just a part of what I wanted to say to you . 
I've been going into your other things they've interested me immensely . 
Some one ought to have told me about them before some one I could believe . 
But whom can one believe ? You're wonderfully on the right road it's awfully decent work . 
Now do you mean to keep it up ? that's what I want to ask you . 
George's own performance had been infirm , but as an adviser he would be infallible . 
Others others ? Ah the number won't matter one other would do , if it were really a further step a throb of the same effort . 
What I mean is have you it in your heart to go in for some sort of decent perfection ? Ah decency , ah perfection ! the young man sincerely sighed . 
I talked of them the other Sunday with Miss Fancourt . 
It produced on the Master's part a laugh of odd acrimony . 
Yes , they'll 'talk' of them as much as you like ! But they'll do little to help one to them . 
There's no obligation of course only you strike me as capable , he went on . 
You must have thought it all over . 
I can't believe you're without a plan . 
That's the sensation you give me , and it's so rare that it really stirs one up it makes you remarkable . 
Now the question is whether you can do it for two or three . 
Is that the stuff you're made of ? It locked his guest a minute as in closed throbbing arms . 
I could do it for one , if you were the one . 
Don't say that I don't deserve it it scorches me , he protested with eyes suddenly grave and glowing . 
The 'one' is of course one's self , one's conscience , one's idea , the singleness of one's aim . 
I think of that pure spirit as a man thinks of a woman he has in some detested hour of his youth loved and forsaken . 
She haunts him with reproachful eyes , she lives for ever before him . 
As an artist , you know , I've married for money . 
I'm not speaking of my dear wife , who had a small fortune which , however , was not my bribe . 
I fell in love with her , as many other people have done . 
I refer to the mercenary muse whom I led to the altar of literature . 
Don't , my boy , put your nose into THAT yoke . 
The awful jade will lead you a life ! Our hero watched him , wondering and deeply touched . 
Haven't you been happy ! Happy ? It's a kind of hell . 
There are things I should like to ask you , Paul said after a pause . 
Ask me anything in all the world . 
I'd turn myself inside out to save you . 
To 'save' me ? he quavered . 
To make you stick to it to make you see it through . 
As I said to you the other night at Summersoft , let my example be vivid to you . 
You've some forty volumes to show for it forty volumes of wonderful life , of rare observation , of magnificent ability . 
I'm very clever , of course I know that but it was a thing , in fine , this author made nothing of . 
Lord , what rot they'd all be if I hadn't been I'm a successful charlatan , he went on I've been able to pass off my system . 
But do you know what it is ? It's cartonpierre . 
Carton pierre ? Paul was struck , and gaped . 
Lincrusta Walton ! Ah don't say such things you make me bleed ! the younger man protested . 
I see you in a beautiful fortunate home , living in comfort and honour . 
Do you call it honour ? his host took him up with an intonation that often comes back to him . 
That's what I want YOU to go in for . 
I mean the real thing . 
Brummagem ? Paul ejaculated while his eyes wandered , by a movement natural at the moment , over the luxurious room . 
Ah they make it so well to day it's wonderfully deceptive ! Our friend thrilled with the interest and perhaps even more with the pity of it . 
Yet he wasn't afraid to seem to patronise when he could still so far envy . 
George smiled as for the candour of his question . 
It's all excellent , my dear fellow heaven forbid I should deny it . 
I've got a loaf on the shelf I've got everything in fact but the great thing . 
The great thing ? Paul kept echoing . 
He either does that or he doesn't and if he doesn't he isn't worth speaking of . 
Therefore , precisely , those who really know DON'T speak of him . 
He may still hear a great chatter , but what he hears most is the incorruptible silence of Fame . 
She's a woman of distinguished qualities , to whom my obligations are immense so that , if you please , we'll say nothing about her . 
My boys my children are all boys are straight and strong , thank God , and have no poverty of growth about them , no penury of needs . 
I receive periodically the most satisfactory attestation from Harrow , from Oxford , from Sandhurst oh we've done the best for them ! of their eminence as living thriving consuming organisms . 
It must be delightful to feel that the son of one's loins is at Sandhurst , Paul remarked enthusiastically . 
Oh I'm a patriot ! The young man then could but have the greater tribute of questions to pay . 
Then what did you mean the other night at Summersoft by saying that children are a curse ? My dear youth , on what basis are we talking ? and St . 
George dropped upon the sofa at a short distance from him . 
Sitting a little sideways he leaned back against the opposite arm with his hands raised and interlocked behind his head . 
On the supposition that a certain perfection's possible and even desirable isn't it so ? Well , all I say is that one's children interfere with perfection . 
You think then the artist shouldn't marry ? He does so at his peril he does so at his cost . 
Not even when his wife's in sympathy with his work ? She never is she can't be ! Women haven't a conception of such things . 
Surely they on occasion work themselves , Paul objected . 
Yes , very badly indeed . 
Oh of course , often , they think they understand , they think they sympathise . 
Then it is they're most dangerous . 
Their idea is that you shall do a great lot and get a great lot of money . 
Their great nobleness and virtue , their exemplary conscientiousness as British females , is in keeping you up to that . 
My wife makes all my bargains with my publishers for me , and has done so for twenty years . 
She does it consummately well that's why I'm really pretty well off . 
Aren't you the father of their innocent babes , and will you withhold from them their natural sustenance ? You asked me the other night if they're not an immense incentive . 
Of course they are there's no doubt of that ! Paul turned it over it took , from eyes he had never felt open so wide , so much looking at . 
For myself I've an idea I need incentives . 
Ah well then , n'en parlons plus ! his companion handsomely smiled . 
YOU are an incentive , I maintain , the young man went on . 
You don't affect me in the way you'd apparently like to . 
Your great success is what I see the pomp of Ennismore Gardens ! Success ? St . 
George's eyes had a cold fine light . 
Do try it ! Paul continued all gravely to glow . 
Try what ? Try to do some really good work . 
Oh I want to , heaven knows ! Well , you can't do it without sacrifices don't believe that for a moment , the Master said . 
In other words I've missed everything . 
You've had the full rich masculine human general life , with all the responsibilities and duties and burdens and sorrows and joys all the domestic and social initiations and complications . 
They must be immensely suggestive , immensely amusing , Paul anxiously submitted . 
Amusing ? For a strong man yes . 
They've given me subjects without number , if that's what you mean but they've taken away at the same time the power to use them . 
I've touched a thousand things , but which one of them have I turned into gold ? The artist has to do only with that he knows nothing of any baser metal . 
I've led the life of the world , with my wife and my progeny the clumsy conventional expensive materialised vulgarised brutalised life of London . 
We've got everything handsome , even a carriage we're perfect Philistines and prosperous hospitable eminent people . 
But , my dear fellow , don't try to stultify yourself and pretend you don't know what we HAVEN'T got . 
It's bigger than all the rest . 
Between artists come ! the Master wound up . 
His impression fairly shook him and he throbbed with the excitement of such deep soundings and such strange confidences . 
for the sores and bruises exhibited by so fine a creature , and with a sense of the tragic secret nursed under his trappings . 
It had been his odd fortune to blow upon the deep waters , to make them surge and break in waves of strange eloquence . 
The Master got up when he had spoken thus he stood a moment near the sofa looking down on his agitated pupil . 
Are you possessed of any property ? it occurred to him to ask . 
Oh well then there's no reason why you shouldn't make a goodish income if you set about it the right way . 
Study ME for that study me well . 
You may really have horses . 
Paul sat there some minutes without speaking . 
He looked straight before him he turned over many things . 
His friend had wandered away , taking up a parcel of letters from the table where the roll of proofs had lain . 
What was the book Mrs. St . 
George made you burn the one she didn't like ? our young man brought out . 
The book she made me burn how did you know that ? The Master looked up from his letters quite without the facial convulsion the pupil had feared . 
I heard her speak of it at Summersoft . 
Ah yes she's proud of it . 
I don't know it was rather good . 
What was it about ? Let me see . 
And he seemed to make an effort to remember . 
Oh yes it was about myself . 
Paul gave an irrepressible groan for the disappearance of such a production , and the elder man went on Oh but YOU should write it YOU should do me . 
And he pulled up from the restless motion that had come upon him his fine smile a generous glare . 
There's a subject , my boy no end of stuff in it ! Again Paul was silent , but it was all tormenting . 
Are there no women who really understand who can take part in a sacrifice ? How can they take part ? They themselves are the sacrifice . 
They're the idol and the altar and the flame . 
Isn't there even ONE who sees further ? Paul continued . 
George made no answer after which , having torn up his letters , he came back to the point all ironic . 
Of course I know the one you mean . 
But not even Miss Fancourt . 
I thought you admired her so much . 
It's impossible to admire her more . 
Are you in love with her ? St . 
Yes , Paul Overt presently said . 
Well then give it up . 
Give up my 'love' ? Bless me , no . 
And then as our hero but still gazed The one you talked with her about . 
The idea of a decent perfection . 
She'd help it she'd help it ! the young man cried . 
For about a year the first year , yes . 
After that she'd be as a millstone round its neck . 
Why she has a passion for the real thing , for good work for everything you and I care for most . 
'You and I' is charming , my dear fellow ! his friend laughed . 
She has it indeed , but she'd have a still greater passion for her children and very proper too . 
She'd insist on everything's being made comfortable , advantageous , propitious for them . 
That isn't the artist's business . 
The artist the artist ! Isn't he a man all the same ? St . 
George had a grand grimace . 
That's what makes them so superior , St . 
Fancy an artist with a change of standards as you'd have a change of shirts or of dinner plates . 
To DO it to do it and make it divine is the only thing he has to think about . 
'Is it done or not ? is his only question . 
Then you don't allow him the common passions and affections of men ? Paul asked . 
Hasn't he a passion , an affection , which includes all the rest ? Besides , let him have all the passions he likes if he only keeps his independence . 
He must be able to be poor . 
Why then did you advise me to make up to her ? St . 
George laid his hand on his shoulder . 
Because she'd make a splendid wife ! And I hadn't read you then . 
The young man had a strained smile . 
I wish you had left me alone ! I didn't know that that wasn't good enough for you , his host returned . 
What a false position , what a condemnation of the artist , that he's a mere disfranchised monk and can produce his effect only by giving up personal happiness . 
What an arraignment of art ! Paul went on with a trembling voice . 
Most assuredly is the artist in a false position ! But I thought we were taking him for granted . 
George continued 'Ginistrella' made me ! Paul stood looking at the floor one o'clock struck , in the stillness , from a neighbouring church tower . 
Do you think she'd ever look at me ? he put to his friend at last . 
Miss Fancourt as a suitor ? Why shouldn't I think it ? That's why I've tried to favour you I've had a little chance or two of bettering your opportunity . 
Forgive my asking you , but do you mean by keeping away yourself ? Paul said with a blush . 
I'm an old idiot my place isn't there , St . 
I'm nothing yet , I've no fortune and there must be so many others , his companion pursued . 
The Master took this considerably in , but made little of it . 
You're a gentleman and a man of genius . 
I think you might do something . 
But if I must give that up the genius ? Lots of people , you know , think I've kept mine , St . 
You've a genius for mystification ! Paul declared but grasping his hand gratefully in attenuation of this judgement . 
Poor dear boy , I do worry you ! But try , try , all the same . 
I think your chances are good and you'll win a great prize . 
Paul held fast the other's hand a minute he looked into the strange deep face . 
No , I AM an artist I can't help it ! Ah show it then ! St . 
Let me see before I die the thing I most want , the thing I yearn for a life in which the passion ours is really intense . 
Here they paused again and our hero breathed deep . 
I want to live ! In what sense ? In the greatest . 
Well then stick to it see it through . 
With your sympathy your help ? Count on that you'll be a great figure to me . 
Count on my highest appreciation , my devotion . 
You'll give me satisfaction if that has any weight with you . 
And you hold me to it ? Ah what am I ? the Master expressively sighed . 
Lord , what things I shall have to do ! Paul almost moaned as be departed . 
It is not a perversion of the truth to pronounce that encounter the direct cause of his departure . 
He spent the summer in Switzerland and , having in September begun a new task , determined not to cross the Alps till he should have made a good start . 
The autumn was fine , the lake was blue and his book took form and direction . 
These felicities , for the time , embroidered his life , which he suffered to cover him with its mantle . 
At the end of six weeks he felt he had learnt St . 
George's lesson by heart , had tested and proved its doctrine . 
Nevertheless he did a very inconsistent thing before crossing the Alps he wrote to Marian Fancourt . 
He was aware of the perversity of this act , and it was only as a luxury , an amusement , the reward of a strenuous autumn , that he justified it . 
She had asked of him no such favour when , shortly before he left London , three days after their dinner in Ennismore Gardens , he went to take leave of her . 
It was true she had had no ground he hadn't named his intention of absence . 
He had kept his counsel for want of due assurance it was that particular visit that was , the next thing , to settle the matter . 
for not having told her what he was doing . 
She replied now briefly but promptly , and gave him a striking piece of news that of the death , a week before , of Mrs. St . 
This exemplary woman had succumbed , in the country , to a violent attack of inflammation of the lungs he would remember that for a long time she had been delicate . 
Miss Fancourt added that she believed her husband overwhelmed by the blow he would miss her too terribly she had been everything in life to him . 
Paul Overt , on this , immediately wrote to St . 
He would from the day of their parting have been glad to remain in communication with him , but had hitherto lacked the right excuse for troubling so busy a man . 
George in answering his young friend upwards of a month later . 
He made no allusion of course to their important discussion . 
He spoke of his wife as frankly and generously as if he had quite forgotten that occasion , and the feeling of deep bereavement was visible in his words . 
She took everything off my hands off my mind . 
This was a rare service the highest she could have rendered me . 
George was an irreparable loss , then her husband's inspired advice had been a bad joke and renunciation was a mistake . 
If he could write as well under the rigour of privation it might be a mistake to change the conditions before that spell had spent itself . 
He would go back to London of course , but he would go back only when he should have finished his book . 
This was the vow he privately made , restoring his manuscript to the table drawer . 
Something within him warned him that he must make it supremely good otherwise he should lack , as regards his private behaviour , a handsome excuse . 
He had a horror of this deficiency and found himself as firm as need be on the question of the lamp and the file . 
Stick to it see it through this general injunction of St . 
George's was good also for the particular case . 
He applied it to the utmost , with the result that when in its slow order the summer had come round again he felt he had given all that was in him . 
This time he put his papers into his portmanteau , with the address of his publisher attached , and took his way northward . 
Stay at home and do things here do subjects we can measure , St . 
George had said and now it struck him he should ask nothing better than to stay at home for ever . 
Late in the afternoon he took his way to Manchester Square , looking out for a number he hadn't forgotten . 
Miss Fancourt , however , was not at home , so that he turned rather dejectedly from the door . 
His movement brought him face to face with a gentleman just approaching it and recognised on another glance as Miss Fancourt's father . 
He therefore went his way without computing the irresistible effect his own evident recognition would have on the General , who never neglected a chance to gossip . 
Our young man's face was expressive , and observation seldom let it pass . 
But her father gave him no second chance he appeared mainly to wish not to have struck him as ungracious . 
He had come late in the hope she would be in . 
I met you at Summersoft a long time ago . 
Oh yes with Henry St . 
Before his poor wife General Fancourt paused a moment , smiling a little less . 
I dare say you know . 
George's death ? Certainly I heard at the time . 
Oh no , I mean I mean he's to be married . 
Ah I've not heard that ! But just as Paul was about to add To whom ? the General crossed his intention . 
When did you come back ? I know you've been away by my daughter . 
You ought to give her something new . 
I came back last night , said our young man , to whom something had occurred which made his speech for the moment a little thick . 
Ah most kind of you to come so soon . 
Couldn't you turn up at dinner ? At dinner ? Paul just mechanically repeated , not liking to ask whom St . 
George was going to marry , but thinking only of that . 
There are several people , I believe . 
Or afterwards if you like better . 
which led him to interrupt himself , and the interruption gave him a momentary sense of awkwardness , from which he sought a quick issue . 
Perhaps then you haven't heard she's to be married . 
To be married ? To Mr. St . 
George it has just been settled . 
Odd marriage , isn't it ? Our listener uttered no opinion on this point he only continued to stare . 
But I dare say it will do she's so awfully literary ! said the General . 
Paul had turned very red . 
Oh it's a surprise very interesting , very charming ! I'm afraid I can't dine so many thanks ! Well , you must come to the wedding ! cried the General . 
Oh I remember that day at Summersoft . 
He's a great man , you know . 
Charming charming ! Paul stammered for retreat . 
He shook hands with the General and got off . 
His face was red and he had the sense of its growing more and more crimson . 
All the evening at home he went straight to his rooms and remained there dinnerless his cheek burned at intervals as if it had been smitten . 
He didn't understand what had happened to him , what trick had been played him , what treachery practised . 
None , none , he said to himself . 
I've nothing to do with it . 
I'm out of it it s none of my business . 
It was as if he hadn't lost her till now . 
He had renounced her , yes but that was another affair that was a closed but not a locked door . 
Now he seemed to see the door quite slammed in his face . 
It wasn't this it wasn't this . 
Mystification bitterness and wrath rose and boiled in him when he thought of the deference , the devotion , the credulity with which he had listened to St . 
The evening wore on and the light was long but even when it had darkened he remained without a lamp . 
He had made it too easy that idea passed over him like a hot wave . 
Suddenly , as he heard eleven o'clock strike , he jumped up , remembering what General Fancourt had said about his coming after dinner . 
He'd go he'd see her at least perhaps he should see what it meant . 
He felt as if some of the elements of a hard sum had been given him and the others were wanting he couldn't do his sum till he had got all his figures . 
He dressed and drove quickly , so that by half past eleven he was at Manchester Square . 
People passed him on the staircase they were going away , going on with the hunted herdlike movement of London society at night . 
But sundry groups remained in the drawing room , and it was some minutes , as she didn't hear him announced , before he discovered and spoke to her . 
In this short interval he had seen St . 
George talking to a lady before the fireplace but he at once looked away , feeling unready for an encounter , and therefore couldn't be sure the author of Shadowmere noticed him . 
At all events he didn't come over though Miss Fancourt did as soon as she saw him she almost rushed at him , smiling rustling radiant beautiful . 
He saw in a single moment that she was happy , happy with an aggressive splendour . 
But she wouldn't speak to him of that , she would speak only of himself . 
I'm so delighted my father told me . 
I'm so sorry I missed you , she went on . 
How charming of you to have come so soon ! Does that surprise you ? Paul Overt asked . 
The first day ? No , from you nothing that's nice . 
She was so happy that it was almost stupid a disproof of the extraordinary intelligence he had formerly found in her . 
Didn't she know how bad St . 
to regard himself as a victim . 
Somehow the ravage of the question was checked by the Master's radiance . 
As he smiled a welcome across the place he was almost banal , was almost smug . 
With which they had passed back together to where the elder man had been standing , while St . 
George said I hope you're never going away again . 
I've been dining here the General told me . 
He was handsome , he was young , he looked as if he had still a great fund of life . 
Paul waited to see if he would tell him what the General had told him in the afternoon and what Miss Fancourt , verbally at least , of course hadn't . 
But as it didn't come out he at last put the question . 
Is it true , the great news I hear that you're to be married ? Ah you have heard it then ? Didn't the General tell you ? Paul asked . 
The Master's face was wonderful . 
Tell me what ? That he mentioned it to me this afternoon ? My dear fellow , I don't remember . 
We've been in the midst of people . 
I'm sorry , in that case , that I lose the pleasure , myself , of announcing to you a fact that touches me so nearly . 
It IS a fact , strange as it may appear . 
It has only just become one . 
Isn't it ridiculous ? St . 
George made this speech without confusion , but on the other hand , so far as our friend could judge , without latent impudence . 
It struck his interlocutor that , to talk so comfortably and coolly , he must simply have forgotten what had passed between them . 
Do you recall the talk we had at my house that night , into which Miss Fancourt's name entered ? I've often thought of it since . 
Yes no wonder you said what you did Paul was careful to meet his eyes . 
In the light of the present occasion ? Ah but there was no light then . 
How could I have foreseen this hour ? Didn't you think it probable ? Upon my honour , no , said Henry St . 
Certainly I owe you that assurance . 
Think how my situation has changed . 
I see I see , our young man murmured . 
She has been so free , and yet she consents . 
Better than any one else perhaps for I remember how you liked her before you went away , and how she liked you you can intelligently congratulate me . 
But you don't call me a writer ? You ought to be ashamed , said Paul . 
Ashamed of marrying again ? I won't say that but ashamed of your reasons . 
The elder man beautifully smiled . 
You must let me judge of them , my good friend . 
Yes why not ? For you judged wonderfully of mine . 
The tone of these words appeared suddenly , for St . 
George , to suggest the unsuspected . 
He stared as if divining a bitterness . 
Don't you think I've been straight ? You might have told me at the time perhaps . 
My dear fellow , when I say I couldn't pierce futurity ! I mean afterwards . 
After my wife's death ? When this idea came to you . 
Ah never , never ! I wanted to save you , rare and precious as you are . 
Poor Overt looked hard at him . 
Are you marrying Miss Fancourt to save me ? Not absolutely , but it adds to the pleasure . 
I shall be the making of you , St . 
I was greatly struck , after our talk , with the brave devoted way you quitted the country , and still more perhaps with your force of character in remaining abroad . 
You're very strong you're wonderfully strong . 
Paul tried to sound his shining eyes the strange thing was that he seemed sincere not a mocking fiend . 
He turned away , and as he did so heard the Master say something about his giving them all the proof , being the joy of his old age . 
He faced him again , taking another look . 
Do you mean to say you've stopped writing ? My dear fellow , of course I have . 
Didn't I tell you ? I can't believe it ! Of course you can't with your own talent ! No , no for the rest of my life I shall only read YOU . 
Does she know that Miss Fancourt ? She will she will . 
Don't you remember the moral I offered myself to you that night as pointing ? St . 
Consider at any rate the warning I am at present . 
This was too much he WAS the mocking fiend . 
It was necessary to his soreness to believe for the hour in the intensity of his grievance all the more cruel for its not being a legal one . 
He was glad to get out into the honest dusky unsophisticating night , to move fast , to take his way home on foot . 
He walked a long time , going astray , paying no attention . 
He was thinking of too many other things . 
His steps recovered their direction , however , and at the end of an hour he found himself before his door in the small inexpensive empty street . 
He lingered , questioning himself still before going in , with nothing around and above him but moonless blackness , a bad lamp or two and a few far away dim stars . 
George were to put forth something of his prime quality something of the type of Shadowmere and finer than his finest . 
Greatly as he admired his talent Paul literally hoped such an incident wouldn't occur it seemed to him just then that he shouldn't be able to bear it . 
His late adviser's words were still in his ears You're very strong , wonderfully strong . 
Was he really ? Certainly he would have to be , and it might a little serve for revenge . 
IS he ? the reader may ask in turn , if his interest has followed the perplexed young man so far . 
The best answer to that perhaps is that he's doing his best , but that it's too soon to say . 
When the new book came out in the autumn Mr. and Mrs. St . 
George found it really magnificent . 
The former still has published nothing but Paul doesn't even yet feel safe . 
