It seems incredible that all that I have passed through all those weird and terrifying experiences should have been encompassed within so short a span as three brief months . 
I am here and here must remain . 
After reading this far , my interest , which already had been stimulated by the finding of the manuscript , was approaching the boiling point . 
The inadequate boat finally arrived at a precarious landing , the natives , waist deep in the surf , assisting . 
I was carried ashore , and while the evening meal was being prepared , I wandered to and fro along the rocky , shattered shore . 
In two minutes you will forget me . 
My home is in Santa Monica . 
I am , or was , junior member of my father's firm . 
Of recent years we have specialized on submarines , which we have built for Germany , England , France and the United States . 
I know a sub as a mother knows her baby's face , and have commanded a score of them on their trial runs . 
Yet my inclinations were all toward aviation . 
I graduated under Curtiss , and after a long siege with my father obtained his permission to try for the Lafayette Escadrille . 
I shall never forget the ashy faces of the passengers as they stampeded for their life belts , though there was no panic . 
Nobs rose with a low growl . 
We were aboard an American ship which , of course , was not armed . 
We were entirely defenseless yet without warning , we were being torpedoed . 
I stood rigid , spellbound , watching the white wake of the torpedo . 
It struck us on the starboard side almost amidships . 
The vessel rocked as though the sea beneath it had been uptorn by a mighty volcano . 
The silence which followed the detonation of the exploding torpedo was almost equally horrifying . 
It lasted for perhaps two seconds , to be followed by the screams and moans of the wounded , the cursing of the men and the hoarse commands of the ship's officers . 
They were splendid they and their crew . 
Never before had I been so proud of my nationality as I was that moment . 
In all the chaos which followed the torpedoing of the liner no officer or member of the crew lost his head or showed in the slightest any degree of panic or fear . 
While we were attempting to lower boats , the submarine emerged and trained guns on us . 
The officer in command ordered us to lower our flag , but this the captain of the liner refused to do . 
The ship was listing frightfully to starboard , rendering the port boats useless , while half the starboard boats had been demolished by the explosion . 
Even while the passengers were crowding the starboard rail and scrambling into the few boats left to us , the submarine commenced shelling the ship . 
I saw one shell burst in a group of women and children , and then I turned my head and covered my eyes . 
When I looked again to horror was added chagrin , for with the emerging of the U boat I had recognized her as a product of our own shipyard . 
I knew her to a rivet . 
I had superintended her construction . 
A second shell exploded upon the deck . 
One of the lifeboats , frightfully overcrowded , swung at a dangerous angle from its davits . 
Now I saw men spring to the rail and leap into the ocean . 
The deck was tilting to an impossible angle . 
Nobs braced himself with all four feet to keep from slipping into the scuppers and looked up into my face with a questioning whine . 
I stooped and stroked his head . 
Come on , boy ! I cried , and running to the side of the ship , dived headforemost over the rail . 
When I came up , the first thing I saw was Nobs swimming about in a bewildered sort of way a few yards from me . 
At sight of me his ears went flat , and his lips parted in a characteristic grin . 
The submarine was withdrawing toward the north , but all the time it was shelling the open boats , three of them , loaded to the gunwales with survivors . 
Nobs and I had gained some little distance from the ship when it rolled completely over and sank . 
We were caught in the suction only enough to be drawn backward a few yards , neither of us being carried beneath the surface . 
I glanced hurriedly about for something to which to cling . 
It must have been carried far below , held to its mother ship by a single rope which finally parted to the enormous strain put upon it . 
At least I have had that great happiness in life nor can Caspak , with all her horrors , expunge that which has been . 
The sea was littered with wreckage among which floated the pitiful forms of women and children , buoyed up by their useless lifebelts . 
Some were torn and mangled others lay rolling quietly to the motion of the sea , their countenances composed and peaceful others were set in hideous lines of agony or horror . 
Close to the boat's side floated the figure of a girl . 
Her face was turned upward , held above the surface by her life belt , and was framed in a floating mass of dark and waving hair . 
I had never looked upon such perfect features , such a divine molding which was at the same time human intensely human . 
It was a face filled with character and strength and femininity the face of one who was created to love and to be loved . 
The cheeks were flushed to the hue of life and health and vitality , and yet she lay there upon the bosom of the sea , dead . 
I felt something rise in my throat as I looked down upon that radiant vision , and I swore that I should live to avenge her murder . 
She lived ! She was not dead ! I leaned over the boat's side and drew her quickly in to the comparative safety which God had given me . 
I removed her life belt and my soggy coat and made a pillow for her head . 
I chafed her hands and arms and feet . 
I worked over her for an hour , and at last I was rewarded by a deep sigh , and again those great eyes opened and looked into mine . 
At that I was all embarrassment . 
I was rubbing one of her hands when she opened her eyes , and I dropped it as though it were a red hot rivet . 
Those eyes took me in slowly from head to foot then they wandered slowly around the horizon marked by the rising and falling gunwales of the lifeboat . 
They looked at Nobs and softened , and then came back to me filled with questioning . 
I I I stammered , moving away and stumbling over the next thwart . 
Aye aye , sir ! she replied faintly , and again her lips drooped , and her long lashes swept the firm , fair texture of her skin . 
I hope that you are feeling better , I finally managed to say . 
Do you know , she said after a moment of silence , I have been awake for a long time ! But I did not dare open my eyes . 
I thought I must be dead , and I was afraid to look , for fear that I should see nothing but blackness about me . 
I am afraid to die ! Tell me what happened after the ship went down . 
I remember all that happened before oh , but I wish that I might forget it ! A sob broke her voice . 
The beasts ! she went on after a moment . 
And to think that I was to have married one of them a lieutenant in the Germany navy . 
Presently she resumed as though she had not ceased speaking . 
I went down and down and down . 
I thought I should never cease to sink . 
Tell me , please , all that happened after the ship sank . 
I told her , then , as well as I could , all that I had seen the submarine shelling the open boats and all the rest of it . 
Nobs had come over and nosed his muzzle into her lap , and she stroked his ugly face , and at last she leaned over and put her cheek against his forehead . 
I have always admired Nobs but this was the first time that it had ever occurred to me that I might wish to be Nobs . 
I wondered how he would take it , for he is as unused to women as I. But he took to it as a duck takes to water . 
What I lack of being a ladies' man , Nobs certainly makes up for as a ladies' dog . 
The old scalawag just closed his eyes and put on one of the softest sugar wouldn't melt in my mouth expressions you ever saw and stood there taking it and asking for more . 
You seem fond of dogs , I said . 
I am fond of this dog , she replied . 
Whether she meant anything personal in that reply I did not know but I took it as personal and it made me feel mighty good . 
As we drifted about upon that vast expanse of loneliness it is not strange that we should quickly become well acquainted . 
We were thirsty , hungry , uncomfortable , and cold . 
But it was of no avail as I sat watching her , the moonlight marking out the graceful curves of her slender young body , I saw her shiver . 
Isn't there something I can do ? I asked . 
You can't lie there chilled through all night . 
Can't you suggest something ? She shook her head . 
We must grin and bear it , she replied after a moment . 
And as I gazed down at her , so small and delicate and helpless , there was born slowly within my breast a new emotion . 
It had never been there before now it will never cease to be there . 
It made me almost frantic in my desire to find some way to keep warm and cooling lifeblood in her veins . 
Like a great light came the understanding of a means to warm the girl . 
Immediately I knelt beside her to put my scheme into practice when suddenly I was overwhelmed with embarrassment . 
She drew away suddenly , voicing a little cry of fright , and tried to push me from her . 
Forgive me , I managed to stammer . 
It is the only way . 
You will die of exposure if you are not warmed , and Nobs and I are the only means we can command for furnishing warmth . 
And I held her tightly while I called Nobs and bade him lie down at her back . 
Chapter Toward morning , I must have dozed , though it seemed to me at the time that I had lain awake for days , instead of hours . 
When I finally opened my eyes , it was daylight , and the girl's hair was in my face , and she was breathing normally . 
I thanked God for that . 
She had turned her head during the night so that as I opened my eyes I saw her face not an inch from mine , my lips almost touching hers . 
It was Nobs who finally awoke her . 
He got up , stretched , turned around a few times and lay down again , and the girl opened her eyes and looked into mine . 
Hers went very wide at first , and then slowly comprehension came to her , and she smiled . 
You have been very good to me . 
I stood up on a thwart and waved my soggy coat above my head . 
Nobs stood upon another and barked . 
The girl sat at my feet straining her eyes toward the deck of the oncoming boat . 
They see us , she said at last . 
There is a man answering your signal . 
A lump came into my throat for her sake rather than for mine . 
She was saved , and none too soon . 
She could not have lived through another night upon the Channel she might not have lived through the coming day . 
The tug came close beside us , and a man on deck threw us a rope . 
Willing hands dragged us to the deck , Nobs scrambling nimbly aboard without assistance . 
The rough men were gentle as mothers with the girl . 
Plying us both with questions they hustled her to the captain's cabin and me to the boiler room . 
They told the girl to take off her wet clothes and throw them outside the door that they might be dried , and then to slip into the captain's bunk and get warm . 
They didn't have to tell me to strip after I once got into the warmth of the boiler room . 
In a jiffy , my clothes hung about where they might dry most quickly , and I myself was absorbing , through every pore , the welcome heat of the stifling compartment . 
They brought us hot soup and coffee , and then those who were not on duty sat around and helped me damn the Kaiser and his brood . 
But peace upon the Channel has been but a transitory thing since August , . 
In a moment I was up on deck to see an enemy submarine about two hundred yards off our port bow . 
Once again an order went down to the engine room , and the tug reduced speed . 
The U boat ceased firing and ordered the tug to come about and approach . 
Our momentum had carried us a little beyond the enemy craft , but we were turning now on the arc of a circle that would bring us alongside her . 
As I stood watching the maneuver and wondering what was to become of us , I felt something touch my elbow and turned to see the girl standing at my side . 
She looked up into my face with a rueful expression . 
They seem bent on our destruction , she said , and it looks like the same boat that sunk us yesterday . 
It is , I replied . 
I helped design her and took her out on her first run . 
The girl drew back from me with a little exclamation of surprise and disappointment . 
I thought you were an American , she said . 
I had no idea you were a a Nor am I , I replied . 
Americans have been building submarines for all nations for many years . 
I wish , though , that we had gone bankrupt , my father and I , before ever we turned out that Frankenstein of a thing . 
We were approaching the U boat at half speed now , and I could almost distinguish the features of the men upon her deck . 
A sailor stepped to my side and slipped something hard and cold into my hand . 
I did not have to look at it to know that it was a heavy pistol . 
Tyke 'er an' use 'er , was all he said . 
Our bow was pointed straight toward the U boat now as I heard word passed to the engine for full speed ahead . 
I instantly grasped the brazen effrontery of the plucky English skipper he was going to ram five hundreds tons of U boat in the face of her trained gun . 
I could scarce repress a cheer . 
At first the boches didn't seem to grasp his intention . 
Evidently they thought they were witnessing an exhibition of poor seamanship , and they yelled their warnings to the tug to reduce speed and throw the helm hard to port . 
We were within fifty feet of them when they awakened to the intentional menace of our maneuver . 
Their gun crew was off its guard but they sprang to their piece now and sent a futile shell above our heads . 
Nobs leaped about and barked furiously . 
Let 'em have it ! commanded the tug captain , and instantly revolvers and rifles poured bullets upon the deck of the submersible . 
Two of the gun crew went down the other trained their piece at the water line of the oncoming tug . 
The balance of those on deck replied to our small arms fire , directing their efforts toward the man at our wheel . 
I hastily pushed the girl down the companionway leading to the engine room , and then I raised my pistol and fired my first shot at a boche . 
What happened in the next few seconds happened so quickly that details are rather blurred in my memory . 
I saw the depleted gun crew on the submarine fire their piece and I felt the shock of impact and heard the loud explosion as the shell struck and exploded in our bows . 
I saw and realized these things even as I was leaping into the pilot house and grasping the wheel , standing astride the dead body of the helmsman . 
With all my strength I threw the helm to starboard but it was too late to effect the purpose of our skipper . 
The best I did was to scrape alongside the sub . 
I heard someone shriek an order into the engine room the boat shuddered and trembled to the sudden reversing of the engines , and our speed quickly lessened . 
Then I saw what that madman of a skipper planned since his first scheme had gone wrong . 
With a loud yelled command , he leaped to the slippery deck of the submersible , and at his heels came his hardy crew . 
I sprang from the pilot house and followed , not to be left out in the cold when it came to strafing the boches . 
Beside me came Nobs , silent now , and grim . 
Germans were emerging from the open hatch to take part in the battle on deck . 
The sole aim of each of us was to hurl one of the opposing force into the sea . 
I shall never forget the hideous expression upon the face of the great Prussian with whom chance confronted me . 
He lowered his head and rushed at me , bellowing like a bull . 
At the same instant a pair of giant arms encircled me from behind and lifted me entirely off my feet . 
Kick and squirm as I would , I could neither turn toward my antagonist nor free myself from his maniacal grasp . 
Relentlessly he was rushing me toward the side of the vessel and death . 
There was none to stay him , for each of my companions was more than occupied by from one to three of the enemy . 
For an instant I was fearful for myself , and then I saw that which filled me with a far greater terror for another . 
My boche was bearing me toward the side of the submarine against which the tug was still pounding . 
I had perhaps the fraction of a second longer to live when I heard an angry growl behind us mingle with a cry of pain and rage from the giant who carried me . 
Instantly he went backward to the deck , and as he did so he threw his arms outwards to save himself , freeing me . 
I fell heavily upon him , but was upon my feet in the instant . 
As I arose , I cast a single glance at my opponent . 
Never again would he menace me or another , for Nob's great jaws had closed upon his throat . 
Then I sprang toward the edge of the deck closest to the girl upon the sinking tug . 
Jump ! And I held out my arms to her . 
Instantly as though with implicit confidence in my ability to save her , she leaped over the side of the tug onto the sloping , slippery side of the U boat . 
I reached far over to seize her hand . 
At the same instant the tug pointed its stern straight toward the sky and plunged out of sight . 
My hand missed the girl's by a fraction of an inch , and I saw her slip into the sea but scarce had she touched the water when I was in after her . 
The first thing I heard was Nobs barking furiously evidently he had missed me and was searching . 
I asked the girl if she was hurt , but she assured me that she was none the worse for this second wetting nor did she seem to suffer any from shock . 
I was to learn for myself that this slender and seemingly delicate creature possessed the heart and courage of a warrior . 
As we joined our own party , I found the tug's mate checking up our survivors . 
There were ten of us left , not including the girl . 
Our brave skipper was missing , as were eight others . 
His lieutenant had been killed . 
Not a bad day's work , said Bradley , the mate , when he had completed his roll . 
Only losing the skipper , he added , was the worst . 
He was a fine man , a fine man . 
Olson who in spite of his name was Irish , and in spite of his not being Scotch had been the tug's engineer was standing with Bradley and me . 
How you goin' to run her ? queried Olson . 
You can't trust these Dutchmen . 
I guess you're right , he admitted . 
And I don't know the first thing about a sub . 
I do , I assured him . 
I know more about this particular sub than the officer who commanded her . 
Both men looked at me in astonishment , and then I had to explain all over again as I had explained to the girl . 
Bradley and Olson were delighted . 
Immediately I was put in command , and the first thing I did was to go below with Olson and inspect the craft thoroughly for hidden boches and damaged machinery . 
There were no Germans below , and everything was intact and in ship shape working order . 
I then ordered all hands below except one man who was to act as lookout . 
Questioning the Germans , I found that all except the commander were willing to resume their posts and aid in bringing the vessel into an English port . 
The officer , however , assured me that he would never be a party to the capture of his vessel . 
There was , therefore , nothing to do but put the man in irons . 
As we were preparing to put this decision into force , the girl descended from the deck . 
It was the first time that she or the German officer had seen each other's faces since we had boarded the U boat . 
Each voiced a sudden exclamation of surprise and dismay . 
Lys ! he cried , and took a step toward her . 
The girl's eyes went wide , and slowly filled with a great horror , as she shrank back . 
Then her slender figure stiffened to the erectness of a soldier , and with chin in air and without a word she turned her back upon the officer . 
Take him away , I directed the two men who guarded him , and put him in irons . 
When he had gone , the girl raised her eyes to mine . 
He is the German of whom I spoke , she said . 
He is Baron von Schoenvorts . 
I merely inclined my head . 
She had loved him ! I wondered if in her heart of hearts she did not love him yet . 
Immediately I became insanely jealous . 
I hated Baron Friedrich von Schoenvorts with such utter intensity that the emotion thrilled me with a species of exaltation . 
Immediately I went on deck to investigate , and Bradley came with me . 
If she's friendly , he said , we'll speak her . 
If she's not , we'll sink her eh , captain ? Yes , lieutenant , I replied , and it was his turn to smile . 
Half speed ahead , I commanded . 
More rapidly now we closed the distance between ourselves and the stranger , until I could plainly see the red ensign of the British merchant marine . 
Then , steering a zigzag course , she fled from us as though we had been the bubonic plague . 
I altered the course of the submarine and set off in chase but the steamer was faster than we , and soon left us hopelessly astern . 
With a rueful smile , I directed that our original course be resumed , and once again we set off toward merry England . 
That was three months ago , and we haven't arrived yet nor is there any likelihood that we ever shall . 
She didn't veer to the north or anywhere else , but bore down on us rapidly . 
Bradley had come on deck and was standing beside me . 
About one more of those , and she'll have our range , he said . 
She doesn't seem to take much stock in our Union Jack . 
A second shell passed over us , and then I gave the command to change our direction , at the same time directing Bradley to go below and give the order to submerge . 
I passed Nobs down to him , and following , saw to the closing and fastening of the hatch . 
It seemed to me that the diving tanks never had filled so slowly . 
We heard a loud explosion apparently directly above us the craft trembled to the shock which threw us all to the deck . 
I expected momentarily to feel the deluge of inrushing water , but none came . 
Instead we continued to submerge until the manometer registered forty feet and then I knew that we were safe . 
Safe ! I almost smiled . 
Bradley was at my side . 
He looked at me quizzically . 
What the devil are we to do ? he asked . 
The merchantman will flee us the war vessel will destroy us neither will believe our colors or give us a chance to explain . 
We will meet even a worse reception if we go nosing around a British port mines , nets and all of it . 
Let's try it again when this fellow has lost the scent , I urged . 
There must come a ship that will believe us . 
And try it again we did , only to be almost rammed by a huge freighter . 
Later we were fired upon by a destroyer , and two merchantmen turned and fled at our approach . 
For two days we cruised up and down the Channel trying to tell some one , who would listen , that we were friends but no one would listen . 
There is only one place you can go , von Schoenvorts sent word to me , and that is Kiel . 
You can't land anywhere else in these waters . 
If you wish , I will take you there , and I can promise that you will be treated well . 
There is another place we can go , I sent back my reply , and we will before we'll go to Germany . 
Chapter Those were anxious days , during which I had but little opportunity to associate with Lys . 
I made Nobs' bed down in Lys' room , for I knew she would feel less alone . 
Nothing of much moment occurred for a while after we left British waters behind us . 
We ran steadily along upon the surface , making good time . 
The first two boats we sighted made off as fast as they could go and the third , a huge freighter , fired on us , forcing us to submerge . 
It was after this that our troubles commenced . 
One of the Diesel engines broke down in the morning , and while we were working on it , the forward port diving tank commenced to fill . 
I was on deck at the time and noted the gradual list . 
Guessing at once what was happening , I leaped for the hatch and slamming it closed above my head , dropped to the centrale . 
To close it and to have the pump started that would empty it were the work of but a minute but we had had a close call . 
I knew that the valve had never opened itself . 
Some one had opened it some one who was willing to die himself if he might at the same time encompass the death of all of us . 
After that I kept a guard pacing the length of the narrow craft . 
We worked upon the engine all that day and night and half the following day . 
It was another two days before we were ready to limp along , half repaired . 
The night before the repairs were completed , the sentry came to my room and awoke me . 
He was rather an intelligent fellow of the English middle class , in whom I had much confidence . 
Well , Wilson , I asked . 
What's the matter now ? He raised his finger to his lips and came closer to me . 
I think I've found out who's doin' the mischief , he whispered , and nodded his head toward the girl's room . 
I seen her sneakin' from the crew's room just now , he went on . 
She'd been in gassin' wit' the boche commander . 
Benson seen her in there las' night , too , but he never said nothin' till I goes on watch tonight . 
Benson's sorter slow in the head , an' he never puts two an' two together till some one else has made four out of it . 
If the man had come in and struck me suddenly in the face , I could have been no more surprised . 
Say nothing of this to anyone , I ordered . 
Keep your eyes and ears open and report every suspicious thing you see or hear . 
The man saluted and left me but for an hour or more I tossed , restless , upon my hard bunk in an agony of jealousy and fear . 
Finally I fell into a troubled sleep . 
It was daylight when I awoke . 
We were steaming along slowly upon the surface , my orders having been to proceed at half speed until we could take an observation and determine our position . 
The sky had been overcast all the previous day and all night but as I stepped into the centrale that morning I was delighted to see that the sun was again shining . 
The spirits of the men seemed improved everything seemed propitious . 
I forgot at once the cruel misgivings of the past night as I set to work to take my observations . 
What a blow awaited me ! The sextant and chronometer had both been broken beyond repair , and they had been broken just this very night . 
They had been broken upon the night that Lys had been seen talking with von Schoenvorts . 
I think that it was this last thought which hurt me the worst . 
I could look the other disaster in the face with equanimity but the bald fact that Lys might be a traitor appalled me . 
I can't make it out , he said . 
One of those boches must be pretty clever to come it over us all like this but they haven't harmed us as much as they think there are still the extra instruments . 
It was my turn now to shake a doleful head . 
There are no extra instruments , I told them . 
They too have disappeared as did the wireless apparatus . 
Both men looked at me in amazement . 
We still have the compass and the sun , said Olson . 
They may be after getting the compass some night but they's too many of us around in the daytime fer 'em to get the sun . 
It was then that one of the men stuck his head up through the hatchway and seeing me , asked permission to come on deck and get a breath of fresh air . 
I recognized him as Benson , the man who , Wilson had said , reported having seen Lys with von Schoenvorts two nights before . 
I motioned him on deck and then called him to one side , asking if he had seen anything out of the way or unusual during his trick on watch the night before . 
Telling him never to fail to report to me anything in the slightest out of the ordinary routine of the ship , I dismissed him . 
I took advantage of the absence of the men upon the deck to go below for my breakfast , which the cook was already preparing upon the electric stove . 
Lys , followed by Nobs , appeared as I entered the centrale . 
She met me with a pleasant Good morning ! which I am afraid I replied to in a tone that was rather constrained and surly . 
Will you breakfast with me ? I suddenly asked the girl , determined to commence a probe of my own along the lines which duty demanded . 
She nodded a sweet acceptance of my invitation , and together we sat down at the little table of the officers' mess . 
You slept well last night ? I asked . 
All night , she replied . 
I am a splendid sleeper . 
But she never turned a hair by way of evidencing guilty knowledge of the catastrophe . 
Who could it have been ? she cried . 
The Germans would be crazy to do it , for their lives are as much at stake as ours . 
Women are much the same , except that they will go even further than most men they will sacrifice everything , even honor , for love . 
I watched her face carefully as I spoke , and I thought that I detected a very faint flush mounting her cheek . 
Seeing an opening and an advantage , I sought to follow it up . 
He would sacrifice anyone , even you and if you still love him , you might be his ready tool . 
Do you understand me ? She looked at me in wide eyed consternation for a moment , and then she went very white and rose from her seat . 
I do , she replied , and turning her back upon me , she walked quickly toward her room . 
I started to follow , for even believing what I did , I was sorry that I had hurt her . 
That afternoon it clouded over the wind mounted to a gale , and the sea rose until the craft was wallowing and rolling frightfully . 
Nearly everyone aboard was sick the air became foul and oppressive . 
For twenty four hours I did not leave my post in the conning tower , as both Olson and Bradley were sick . 
Finally I found that I must get a little rest , and so I looked about for some one to relieve me . 
He had not been sick , and assured me that he was a former R. N. man and had been detailed for submarine duty for over two years . 
I was glad that it was he , for I had considerable confidence in his loyalty , and so it was with a feeling of security that I went below and lay down . 
I slept twelve hours straight , and when I awoke and discovered what I had done , I lost no time in getting to the conning tower . 
There sat Benson as wide awake as could be , and the compass showed that we were heading straight into the west . 
The storm was still raging nor did it abate its fury until the fourth day . 
We were all pretty well done up and looked forward to the time when we could go on deck and fill our lungs with fresh air . 
For six more days after the storm lessened we still had fairly rough weather nor did the sun once show himself during all that time . 
For the season it was now the middle of June the storm was unusual but being from southern California , I was accustomed to unusual weather . 
In fact , I have discovered that the world over , unusual weather prevails at all times of the year . 
What puzzled me most was the fact that for six days we had not sighted a single ship . 
On the seventh day the sea lay comparatively calm at early dawn . 
Gradually the heavens lightened but astern I could see no intenser glow that would indicate the rising sun behind the mist . 
Bradley was standing at my side . 
Presently he touched my arm . 
Look , captain , he said , and pointed south . 
I looked and gasped , for there directly to port I saw outlined through the haze the red top of the rising sun . 
Hurrying to the tower , I looked at the compass . 
It showed that we were holding steadily upon our westward course . 
Either the sun was rising in the south , or the compass had been tampered with . 
I went back to Bradley and told him what I had discovered . 
And , I concluded , we can't make another five hundred knots without oil our provisions are running low and so is our water . 
God only knows how far south we have run . 
There is nothing to do , he replied , other than to alter our course once more toward the west we must raise land soon or we shall all be lost . 
It showed us to be about north and west nearly twenty five hundred miles off our course . 
In short , if our reading was anywhere near correct , we must have been traveling due south for six days . 
Bradley now relieved Benson , for we had arranged our shifts so that the latter and Olson now divided the nights , while Bradley and I alternated with one another during the days . 
I questioned both Olson and Benson closely in the matter of the compass but each stoutly maintained that no one had tampered with it during his tour of duty . 
Benson gave me a knowing smile , as much as to say Well , you and I know who did this . 
Yet I could not believe that it was the girl . 
We kept to our westerly course for several hours when the lookout's cry announced a sail . 
I ordered the U 's course altered , and we bore down upon the stranger , for I had come to a decision which was the result of necessity . 
We could not lie there in the middle of the Atlantic and starve to death if there was any way out of it . 
The sailing ship saw us while we were still a long way off , as was evidenced by her efforts to escape . 
We moved in quite close to her . 
She was the Balmen of Halmstad , Sweden , with a general cargo from Brazil for Spain . 
Most of them , though , were only too glad to obey me . 
Bradley passed the order down into the ship and a moment later the gun crew clambered up the narrow ladder and at my direction trained their piece upon the slow moving Swede . 
Fire a shot across her bow , I instructed the gun captain . 
Accept it from me , it didn't take that Swede long to see the error of his way and get the red and white pennant signifying I understand to the masthead . 
Once again the sails flapped idly , and then I ordered him to lower a boat and come after me . 
With Olson and a couple of the Englishmen I boarded the ship , and from her cargo selected what we needed oil , provisions and water . 
We addressed both to any British agent with the request that the owners of the Balmen be reimbursed but whether or not they were , I do not know . 
Late in July , , an item in the shipping news mentioned a Swedish sailing vessel , Balmen , Rio de Janiero to Barcelona , sunk by a German raider sometime in June . 
A single survivor in an open boat was picked up off the Cape Verde Islands , in a dying condition . 
He expired without giving any details . 
With water , food , and oil aboard , we felt that we had obtained a new lease of life . 
Now , too , we knew definitely where we were , and I determined to make for Georgetown , British Guiana but I was destined to again suffer bitter disappointment . 
I couldn't imagine how it had happened but it had . 
After that it had been comparatively simple to stand at the foot of the ladder and arrest each individual as he descended . 
The first thing von Schoenvorts did was to send for me and announce that as a pirate I was to be shot early the next morning . 
He didn't shoot me the next morning as he had promised , and it has never been clear to me why he postponed the execution of my sentence . 
Instead he kept me ironed just as he had been then he kicked Bradley out of my room and took it all to himself . 
We cruised for a long time , sinking many vessels , all but one by gunfire , but we did not come across a German raider . 
Once or twice Lys passed me but for the most part she kept to her room . 
The first time she hesitated as though she wished to speak to me but I did not raise my head , and finally she passed on . 
I'll put the fear of God and the Kaiser into them , he said . 
The very first day we entered the South Pacific we had an adventure . 
It turned out to be quite the most exciting adventure I had ever encountered . 
It fell about this way . 
Below all was quiet not a man remained . 
A door opened at the end of the narrow hull , and presently Nobs came trotting up to me . 
He licked my face and rolled over on his back , reaching for me with his big , awkward paws . 
Then other footsteps sounded , approaching me . 
I knew whose they were , and I looked straight down at the flooring . 
The girl was coming almost at a run she was at my side immediately . 
Quick ! And she slipped something into my hand . 
It was a key the key to my irons . 
At my side she also laid a pistol , and then she went on into the centrale . 
As she passed me , I saw that she carried another pistol for herself . 
It did not take me long to liberate myself , and then I was at her side . 
How can I thank you ? I started but she shut me up with a word . 
Do not thank me , she said coldly . 
I do not care to hear your thanks or any other expression from you . 
Do not stand there looking at me . 
I have given you a chance to do something now do it ! The last was a peremptory command that made me jump . 
Glancing up , I saw that the tower was empty , and I lost no time in clambering up , looking about me . 
About a hundred yards off lay a small , swift cruiser raider , and above her floated the German man of war's flag . 
A boat had just been lowered , and I could see it moving toward us filled with officers and men . 
The cruiser lay dead ahead . 
My , I thought , what a wonderful targ I stopped even thinking , so surprised and shocked was I by the boldness of my imagery . 
The girl was just below me . 
I looked down on her wistfully . 
Could I trust her ? Why had she released me at this moment ? I must ! I must ! There was no other way . 
Ask Olson to step down here , please , I requested and don't let anyone see you ask him . 
She looked at me with a puzzled expression on her face for the barest fraction of a second , and then she turned and went up the ladder . 
A moment later Olson returned , and the girl followed him . 
Quick ! I whispered to the big Irishman , and made for the bow compartment where the torpedo tubes are built into the boat here , too , were the torpedoes . 
No , thank God ! Never could aim have been truer . 
I signaled back to Olson Let 'er go ! The U trembled from stem to stern as the torpedo shot from its tube . 
I saw the white wake leap from her bow straight toward the enemy cruiser . 
Then I turned my attention to my own business . 
Most of the men on the submarine's deck were standing in paralyzed fascination , staring at the torpedo . 
Bradley happened to be looking toward the conning tower and saw me . 
I sprang on deck and ran toward him . 
While they are stunned , we must overcome them . 
A German was standing near Bradley just in front of him . 
The Englishman struck the fellow a frantic blow upon the neck and at the same time snatched his pistol from its holster . 
Von Schoenvorts had recovered from his first surprise quickly and had turned toward the main hatch to investigate . 
I covered him with my revolver , and at the same instant the torpedo struck the raider , the terrific explosion drowning the German's command to his men . 
Bradley was now running from one to another of our men , and though some of the Germans saw and heard him , they seemed too stunned for action . 
Olson was below , so that there were only nine of us against eight Germans , for the man Bradley had struck still lay upon the deck . 
Only two of us were armed but the heart seemed to have gone out of the boches , and they put up but half hearted resistance . 
Von Schoenvorts was the worst he was fairly frenzied with rage and chagrin , and he came charging for me like a mad bull , and as he came he discharged his pistol . 
This left two pistols , which two of my own men were quick to appropriate . 
The Baron was no match for me in a hand to hand encounter , and I soon had him pinned to the deck and the life almost choked out of him . 
A half hour later things had quieted down , and all was much the same as before the prisoners had revolted only we kept a much closer watch on von Schoenvorts . 
I suppose the poor devils never reached land , and if they did , they most probably perished on that cold and unhospitable shore but I couldn't permit them aboard the U . 
We had all the Germans we could take care of . 
That evening the girl asked permission to go on deck . 
She said that she felt the effects of long confinement below , and I readily granted her request . 
It was a clear , cold , beautiful night . 
Benson was in the tower , we were bound for San Diego and all looked well . 
Lys stood with a heavy blanket wrapped around her slender figure , and as I approached her , she half turned toward me to see who it was . 
When she recognized me , she immediately turned away . 
I want to thank you , I said , for your bravery and loyalty you were magnificent . 
I am sorry that you had reason before to think that I doubted you . 
You did doubt me , she replied in a level voice . 
You practically accused me of aiding Baron von Schoenvorts . 
I can never forgive you . 
There was a great deal of finality in both her words and tone . 
I didn't want to doubt you but I carried all the responsibility of the lives of these men , of the safety of the ship , of your life and mine . 
I had to watch you , and I had to put you on your guard against a repetition of your madness . 
She was looking at me now with those great eyes of hers , very wide and round . 
Who told you that I spoke with Baron von Schoenvorts at night , or any other time ? she asked . 
I cannot tell you , Lys , I replied , but it came to me from two different sources . 
Then two men have lied , she asserted without heat . 
I have not spoken to Baron von Schoenvorts other than in your presence when first we came aboard the U . 
And please , when you address me , remember that to others than my intimates I am Miss La Rue . 
Did you ever get slapped in the face when you least expected it ? No ? Well , then you do not know how I felt at that moment . 
I could feel the hot , red flush surging up my neck , across my cheeks , over my ears , clear to my scalp . 
And it made me love her all the more it made me swear inwardly a thousand solemn oaths that I would win her . 
Chapter For several days things went along in about the same course . 
I took our position every morning with my crude sextant but the results were always most unsatisfactory . 
They always showed a considerable westing when I knew that we had been sailing due north . 
I blamed my crude instrument , and kept on . 
Then one afternoon the girl came to me . 
Pardon me , she said , but were I you , I should watch this man Benson especially when he is in charge . 
I asked her what she meant , thinking I could see the influence of von Schoenvorts raising a suspicion against one of my most trusted men . 
Possibly , too , you will understand some other things that have taken place aboard . 
Then she went back to her room , thus ending the conversation . 
It showed that our course was north by west that is , one point west of north , which was , for our assumed position , about right . 
I was greatly relieved to find that nothing was wrong , for the girl's words had caused me considerable apprehension . 
I was about to return to my room when a thought occurred to me that again caused me to change my mind and , incidentally , came near proving my death warrant . 
There was only one other solution since I left the tower , our course had been altered some eight points . 
Turning quickly , I climbed out upon the conning tower . 
A single glance at the heavens confirmed my suspicions the constellations which should have been dead ahead were directly starboard . 
We were sailing due west . 
I cannot see even now how I escaped it . 
I was standing on the edge of the conning tower , when a heavy palm suddenly struck me between the shoulders and hurled me forward into space . 
As I came to my feet , I heard the conning tower cover slam . 
There is a ladder which leads from the deck to the top of the tower . 
Up this I scrambled , as fast as I could go but Benson had the cover tight before I reached it . 
I stood there a moment in dumb consternation . 
I glanced at the bow . 
The sea seemed to be getting heavier , for every wave now washed completely over the lower deck . 
I watched them for a moment , and then a sudden chill pervaded my entire being . 
It was not the chill of wet clothing , or the dashing spray which drenched my face no , it was the chill of the hand of death upon my heart . 
All I can particularly recall is that I laughed , though neither from a spirit of bravado nor from hysteria . 
And I wanted to smoke . 
Lord ! how I did want to smoke but that was out of the question . 
I watched the water rise until the little deck I stood on was awash , and then I clambered once more to the top of the conning tower . 
The throbbing of the engines ceased , and in its stead came the steady vibration of the electric motors . 
The water was halfway up the conning tower ! I had perhaps five minutes longer on the deck . 
I tried to decide what I should do after I was washed away . 
Should I swim until exhaustion claimed me , or should I give up and end the agony at the first plunge ? From below came two muffled reports . 
They sounded not unlike shots . 
The top of the conning tower was now awash . 
I clung to the wireless mast , while the great waves surged sometimes completely over me . 
I knew the end was near and , almost involuntarily , I did that which I had not done since childhood I prayed . 
After that I felt better . 
I clung and waited , but the water rose no higher . 
Presently the main deck came into view , and then the conning tower opened behind me , and I turned to look into the anxious face of Bradley . 
An expression of relief overspread his features . 
Thank God , man ! was all he said as he reached forth and dragged me into the tower . 
I was cold and numb and rather all in . 
That brandy would have revived a corpse . 
When I got down into the centrale , I saw the Germans lined up on one side with a couple of my men with pistols standing over them . 
Von Schoenvorts was among them . 
On the floor lay Benson , moaning , and beyond him stood the girl , a revolver in one hand . 
I looked about , bewildered . 
What has happened down here ? I asked . 
Tell me ! Bradley replied . 
You see the result , sir , he said . 
It might have been a very different result but for Miss La Rue . 
Benson had relieved the guard early in the evening there was no one to watch him no one but Miss La Rue . 
She felt the submergence of the boat and came out of her room to investigate . 
She was just in time to see Benson at the diving rudders . 
When he saw her , he raised his pistol and fired point blank at her , but he missed and she fired and didn't miss . 
It was she who closed the diving tank sea cocks and roused Olson and me , and had the pumps started to empty them . 
As it was , I could only remove my soggy cap and bow and mumble my appreciation . 
She made no reply only turned and walked very rapidly toward her room . 
Could I have heard aright ? Was it really a sob that came floating back to me through the narrow aisle of the U ? Benson died that night . 
He remained defiant almost to the last but just before he went out , he motioned to me , and I leaned over to catch the faintly whispered words . 
I did it alone , he said . 
I did it because I hate you I hate all your kind . 
I was kicked out of your shipyard at Santa Monica . 
I was locked out of California . 
I threw the wireless apparatus overboard . 
I destroyed the chronometer and the sextant . 
I devised a scheme for varying the compass to suit my wishes . 
I told Wilson that I had seen the girl talking with von Schoenvorts , and I made the poor egg think he had seen her doing the same thing . 
I am sorry sorry that my plans failed . 
We threw his body overboard . 
The wind of that night brought on some pretty rough weather with a lot of black clouds which persisted for several days . 
The long and the short of it was that we cruised about aimlessly until the sun came out again . 
I'll never forget that day or its surprises . 
We reckoned , or rather guessed , that we were somewhere off the coast of Peru . 
The wind , which had been blowing fitfully from the east , suddenly veered around into the south , and presently we felt a sudden chill . 
When were yez after smellin' iceber rgs off Peru ? Icebergs ! Icebergs , nothin' ! exclaimed one of the Englishmen . 
Why , man , they don't come north of fourteen here in these waters . 
Then , replied Olson , ye're sout' of fourteen , me b'y . 
We thought he was crazy but he wasn't , for that afternoon we sighted a great berg south of us , and we'd been running north , we thought , for days . 
I know that I was but my interest was quickly dissipated by the sudden illness of three of the Germans . 
Almost simultaneously they commenced vomiting . 
They couldn't suggest any explanation for it . 
I asked them what they had eaten , and found they had eaten nothing other than the food cooked for all of us . 
Have you drunk anything ? I asked , for I knew that there was liquor aboard , and medicines in the same locker . 
Only water , moaned one of them . 
We all drank water together this morning . 
We opened a new tank . 
Maybe it was the water . 
I started an investigation which revealed a terrifying condition some one , probably Benson , had poisoned all the running water on the ship . 
It would have been worse , though , had land not been in sight . 
The sight of land filled us with renewed hope . 
Our course had been altered , and we were rapidly approaching what appeared to be a precipitous headland . 
Cliffs , seemingly rising perpendicularly out of the sea , faded away into the mist upon either hand as we approached . 
We took our bearings with our crude and inaccurate instruments we searched the chart we cudgeled our brains and at last it was Bradley who suggested a solution . 
He was in the tower and watching the compass , to which he called my attention . 
The needle was pointing straight toward the land . 
Bradley swung the helm hard to starboard . 
I could feel the U respond , and yet the arrow still clung straight and sure toward the distant cliffs . 
What do you make of it ? I asked him . 
Did you ever hear of Caproni ? he asked . 
An early Italian navigator ? I returned . 
Yes he followed Cook about . 
He is scarcely mentioned even by contemporaneous historians probably because he got into political difficulties on his return to Italy . 
He could make no landing nor in the several days he cruised about it did he see sign of life . 
He called it Caprona and sailed away . 
I believe , sir , that we are looking upon the coast of Caprona , uncharted and forgotten for two hundred years . 
If you are right , it might account for much of the deviation of the compass during the past two days , I suggested . 
Caprona has been luring us upon her deadly rocks . 
Well , we'll accept her challenge . 
Along that long front there must be a vulnerable spot . 
We will find it , Bradley , for we must find it . 
We must find water on Caprona , or we must die . 
And so we approached the coast upon which no living eyes had ever rested . 
But metaphor , however poetic , never slaked a dry throat . 
To enjoy Caprona's romantic suggestions we must have water , and so we came in close , always sounding , and skirted the shore . 
As close in as we dared cruise , we found fathomless depths , and always the same undented coastline of bald cliffs . 
As darkness threatened , we drew away and lay well off the coast all night . 
Toward noon we discovered a beach , the first we had seen . 
It was a narrow strip of sand at the base of a part of the cliff that seemed lower than any we had before scanned . 
At its foot , half buried in the sand , lay great boulders , mute evidence that in a bygone age some mighty natural force had crumpled Caprona's barrier at this point . 
It was Bradley who first called our attention to a strange object lying among the boulders above the surf . 
Looks like a man , he said , and passed his glasses to me . 
I looked long and carefully and could have sworn that the thing I saw was the sprawled figure of a human being . 
Miss La Rue was on deck with us . 
I turned and asked her to go below . 
Without a word she did as I bade . 
Then I stripped , and as I did so , Nobs looked questioningly at me . 
He had been wont at home to enter the surf with me , and evidently he had not forgotten it . 
What are you going to do , sir ? asked Olson . 
I'm going to see what that thing is on shore , I replied . 
If it's a man , it may mean that Caprona is inhabited , or it may merely mean that some poor devils were shipwrecked here . 
I ought to be able to tell from the clothing which is more near the truth . 
How about sharks ? queried Olson . 
Sure , you ought to carry a knoife . 
Here you are , sir , cried one of the men . 
It was a long slim blade he offered one that I could carry between my teeth and so I accepted it gladly . 
Keep close in , I directed Bradley , and then I dived over the side and struck out for the narrow beach . 
There was another splash directly behind me , and turning my head , I saw faithful old Nobs swimming valiantly in my wake . 
The surf was not heavy , and there was no undertow , so we made shore easily , effecting an equally easy landing . 
The beach was composed largely of small stones worn smooth by the action of water . 
I attribute this to the fact of the smallness of the beach , the enormous depth of surrounding water and the great distance at which Caprona lies from her nearest neighbor . 
Nobs halted , sniffed and growled . 
A little later he sat down upon his haunches , raised his muzzle to the heavens and bayed forth a most dismal howl . 
I shied a small stone at him and bade him shut up his uncanny noise made me nervous . 
When I had come quite close to the thing , I still could not say whether it had been man or beast . 
The carcass was badly swollen and partly decomposed . 
There was no sign of clothing upon or about it . 
A fine , brownish hair covered the chest and abdomen , and the face , the palms of the hands , the feet , the shoulders and back were practically hairless . 
Its large toes protruded laterally as do those of the semiarboreal peoples of Borneo , the Philippines and other remote regions where low types still persist . 
The countenance might have been that of a cross between Pithecanthropus , the Java ape man , and a daughter of the Piltdown race of prehistoric Sussex . 
A wooden cudgel lay beside the corpse . 
Now this fact set me thinking . 
There was no wood of any description in sight . 
There was nothing about the beach to suggest a wrecked mariner . 
There was absolutely nothing about the body to suggest that it might possibly in life have known a maritime experience . 
It was the body of a low type of man or a high type of beast . 
In neither instance would it have been of a seafaring race . 
Therefore I deduced that it was native to Caprona that it lived inland , and that it had fallen or been hurled from the cliffs above . 
Such being the case , Caprona was inhabitable , if not inhabited , by man but how to reach the inhabitable interior ! That was the question . 
Nobs and I met with no sharks upon our return journey to the submarine . 
My report filled everyone with theories and speculations , and with renewed hope and determination . 
They all reasoned along the same lines that I had reasoned the conclusions were obvious , but not the water . 
We were now thirstier than ever . 
The balance of that day we spent in continuing a minute and fruitless exploration of the monotonous coast . 
There was not another break in the frowning cliffs not even another minute patch of pebbly beach . 
As the sun fell , so did our spirits . 
I had tried to make advances to the girl again but she would have none of me , and so I was not only thirsty but otherwise sad and downhearted . 
I was glad when the new day broke the hideous spell of a sleepless night . 
The morning's search brought us no shred of hope . 
Caprona was impregnable that was the decision of all yet we kept on . 
It must have been about two bells of the afternoon watch that Bradley called my attention to the branch of a tree , with leaves upon it , floating on the sea . 
It may have been carried down to the ocean by a river , he suggested . 
Yes , I replied , it may have it may have tumbled or been thrown off the top of one of these cliffs . 
I thought of that , too , he replied , but I wanted to believe the other . 
Right you are ! I cried . 
We must believe the other until we prove it false . 
We can't afford to give up heart now , when we need heart most . 
The branch was carried down by a river , and we are going to find that river . 
I smote my open palm with a clenched fist , to emphasize a determination unsupported by hope . 
There ! I cried suddenly . 
See that , Bradley ? And I pointed at a spot closer to shore . 
See that , man ! Some flowers and grasses and another leafy branch floated toward us . 
We both scanned the water and the coastline . 
Bradley evidently discovered something , or at least thought that he had . 
He called down for a bucket and a rope , and when they were passed up to him , he lowered the former into the sea and drew it in filled with water . 
The water was very warm , and it was fresh , but there was a most unpleasant taste to it . 
Did you ever taste water from a stagnant pool full of tadpoles ? Bradley asked . 
Yes , agreed Bradley , I should say higher but where does it come from ? That is easily discovered now that we have found it , I answered . 
It can't come from the ocean so it must come from the land . 
All that we have to do is follow it , and sooner or later we shall come upon its source . 
We came up to within twenty five feet of the sheer wall , which loomed high above us . 
There was no break in its forbidding face . 
As we watched the face of the waters and searched the cliff's high face , Olson suggested that the fresh water might come from a submarine geyser . 
This , he said , would account for its heat but even as he spoke a bush , covered thickly with leaves and flowers , bubbled to the surface and floated off astern . 
Flowering shrubs don't thrive in the subterranean caverns from which geysers spring , suggested Bradley . 
It beats me , he said . 
I've got it ! I exclaimed suddenly . 
Look there ! And I pointed at the base of the cliff ahead of us , which the receding tide was gradually exposing to our view . 
They all looked , and all saw what I had seen the top of a dark opening in the rock , through which water was pouring out into the sea . 
It's the subterranean channel of an inland river , I cried . 
It flows through a land covered with vegetation and therefore a land upon which the sun shines . 
No subterranean caverns produce any order of plant life even remotely resembling what we have seen disgorged by this river . 
You might as well call our attention to the fact , sir , he said , that science has indicated that there is fresh water and vegetation on Mars . 
Not at all , I rejoined . 
A U boat isn't constructed to navigate space , but it is designed to travel below the surface of the water . 
You'd be after sailin' into that blank pocket ? asked Olson . 
I would , Olson , I replied . 
We haven't one chance for life in a hundred thousand if we don't find food and water upon Caprona . 
This water coming out of the cliff is not salt but neither is it fit to drink , though each of us has drunk . 
It is fair to assume that inland the river is fed by pure streams , that there are fruits and herbs and game . 
Shall we lie out here and die of thirst and starvation with a land of plenty possibly only a few hundred yards away ? We have the means for navigating a subterranean river . 
Are we too cowardly to utilize this means ? Be afther goin' to it , said Olson . 
I'm willing to see it through , agreed Bradley . 
Then under the bottom , wi' the best o' luck an' give 'em hell ! cried a young fellow who had been in the trenches . 
I know that I had this feeling , and I think that most of the others did . 
As we went down , I sat in the tower with the searchlight projecting its seemingly feeble rays ahead . 
It was an opening that would have admitted a half dozen U boats at one and the same time , roughly cylindrical in contour and dark as the pit of perdition . 
As I gave the command which sent the U slowly ahead , I could not but feel a certain uncanny presentiment of evil . 
I was the eyes of the whole company , and I did my best not to fail them . 
We had advanced a hundred yards , perhaps , when our first danger confronted us . 
Just ahead was a sharp right angle turn in the tunnel . 
I gave the command full speed ahead and went charging toward the menace . 
Well , we made it but it was a narrow squeak . 
I expected momentarily the inrush of waters that would seal our doom but presently from below came the welcome word that all was well . 
In another fifty yards there was a second turn , this time toward the left ! but it was more of a gentle curve , and we took it without trouble . 
After the second turn the channel ran comparatively straight for between one hundred and fifty and two hundred yards . 
The waters grew suddenly lighter , and my spirits rose accordingly . 
I shouted down to those below that I saw daylight ahead , and a great shout of thanksgiving reverberated through the ship . 
A moment later we emerged into sunlit water , and immediately I raised the periscope and looked about me upon the strangest landscape I had ever seen . 
Close by us something rose to the surface of the river and dashed at the periscope . 
I had a vision of wide , distended jaws , and then all was blotted out . 
A shiver ran down into the tower as the thing closed upon the periscope . 
A moment later it was gone , and I could see again . 
Above the trees there soared into my vision a huge thing on batlike wings a creature large as a large whale , but fashioned more after the order of a lizard . 
Then again something charged the periscope and blotted out the mirror . 
I will confess that I was almost gasping for breath as I gave the commands to emerge . 
Into what sort of strange land had fate guided us ? The instant the deck was awash , I opened the conning tower hatch and stepped out . 
In another minute the deck hatch lifted , and those who were not on duty below streamed up the ladder , Olson bringing Nobs under one arm . 
But the life ! It teemed . 
The tall , fernlike trees were alive with monkeys , snakes , and lizards . 
Huge insects hummed and buzzed hither and thither . 
Presently the back of the creature was exposed , brown and glossy as the water dripped from it . 
It turned its eyes upon us , opened its lizard like mouth , emitted a shrill hiss and came for us . 
The thing must have been sixteen or eighteen feet in length and closely resembled pictures I had seen of restored plesiosaurs of the lower Jurassic . 
It charged us as savagely as a mad bull , and one would have thought it intended to destroy and devour the mighty U boat , as I verily believe it did intend . 
We were moving slowly up the river as the creature bore down upon us with distended jaws . 
The long neck was far outstretched , and the four flippers with which it swam were working with powerful strokes , carrying it forward at a rapid pace . 
At this exhibition of titanic strength I think we all simultaneously stepped backward , and Bradley drew his revolver and fired . 
The bullet struck the thing in the neck , just above its body but instead of disabling it , merely increased its rage . 
I ran forward , discharging my pistol into the creature's body in an effort to force it to relinquish its prey but I might as profitably have shot at the sun . 
I think we were all more or less shaken by the frightfulness o the tragedy until Olson remarked that the balance of power now rested where it belonged . 
Following the death of Benson we had been nine and nine nine Germans and nine Allies , as we called ourselves , now there were but eight Germans . 
We never counted the girl on either side , I suppose because she was a girl , though we knew well enough now that she was ours . 
They clambered , squirmed and wriggled to the deck , forcing us steadily backward , though we emptied our pistols into them . 
There were all sorts and conditions of horrible things huge , hideous , grotesque , monstrous a veritable Mesozoic nightmare . 
After the girl I sent Bradley and most of the Allies and then the Germans who were on deck von Schoenvorts being still in irons below . 
The creatures were approaching perilously close before I dropped through the hatchway and slammed down the cover . 
Then I went into the tower and ordered full speed ahead , hoping to distance the fearsome things but it was useless . 
I was mighty glad that our entrance into the interior of Caprona had been inside a submarine rather than in any other form of vessel . 
We proceeded up the river for some forty miles before darkness overtook us . 
We also dipped up some of the river water and found it , though quite warm , a little sweeter than before . 
We had food enough , and with the water we were all quite refreshed but we missed fresh meat . 
So I went on deck with a rifle , twenty of which were aboard the U . 
At sight of me a huge thing charged and climbed to the deck . 
The thing stopped then and looked at me a moment as much as to say Why this thing has a stinger ! I must be careful . 
And then it reached out its long neck and opened its mighty jaws and grabbed for me but I wasn't there . 
I had tumbled backward into the tower , and I mighty near killed myself doing it . 
The thing didn't have sufficient brainpan to entertain more than a single idea at once . 
Then the two men went on deck through the main hatch , and while one kept watch , the other cut a hind quarter off Plesiosaurus Olsoni , as Bradley dubbed the thing . 
Meantime Olson cut off the long neck , saying that it would make fine soup . 
Chapter The steaks we had that night , and they were fine and the following morning we tasted the broth . 
It seemed odd to be eating a creature that should , by all the laws of paleontology , have been extinct for several million years . 
It gave one a feeling of newness that was almost embarrassing , although it didn't seem to embarrass our appetites . 
Olson ate until I thought he would burst . 
The girl ate with us that night at the little officers' mess just back of the torpedo compartment . 
Nobs sat between the girl and me and was fed with morsels of the Plesiosaurus steak , at the risk of forever contaminating his manners . 
Lys was coldly polite to me and sweetly gracious to Bradley and Olson . 
She wasn't of the gushing type , I knew so I didn't expect much from her and was duly grateful for the few morsels of attention she threw upon the floor to me . 
We had a pleasant meal , with only one unfortunate occurrence when Olson suggested that possibly the creature we were eating was the same one that ate the German . 
And anyway , he concluded , it was only a scheme of Mr. Olson's to get all the steaks for himself . 
We discussed the future and ventured opinions as to what lay before us but we could only theorize at best , for none of us knew . 
We had an easy time getting away as we learned later , because the saurians do not commence to feed until late in the morning . 
From noon to midnight their curve of activity is at its height , while from dawn to about nine o'clock it is lowest . 
I hoped , but I was none too sure , that shells might discourage them . 
The trees were full of monkeys of all sizes and shades , and once we thought we saw a manlike creature watching us from the depth of the forest . 
The grass , too , was less flowering , though there were still gorgeous patches mottling the greensward and lastly , the fauna was less multitudinous . 
The waters all about us were alive with life . 
There were still a few reptiles but there were fish by the thousands , by the millions . 
The water of the inland sea was very warm , almost hot , and the atmosphere was hot and heavy above it . 
Gradually , we commenced to divest ourselves of our clothing , retaining only sufficient for modesty but the sun was not hot . 
It was more the heat of a steam room than of an oven . 
We coasted up the shore of the lake in a north westerly direction , sounding all the time . 
In open spaces along the shore we caught occasional glimpses of the distant cliffs , and here they appeared only a trifle less precipitous than those which bound Caprona on the seaward side . 
As we cruised up along the coast , the landscape continued a more or less open forest , with here and there a small plain where we saw animals grazing . 
Here was game a plenty ! There seemed little danger of starving upon Caprona . 
Only the great , shaggy ox stood his ground . 
With lowered head he watched us until we had passed , and then continued feeding . 
We ran along beside them for a matter of ten miles , arriving off a broad cleft which led into what appeared to be another lake . 
My men were all armed now with both rifles and pistols , each having plenty of ammunition . 
The line was made fast to a small tree , and at the same time I had the stern anchor dropped . 
There is no reason why we should carry our racial and political hatreds into Caprona , I insisted . 
What is your answer ? I turned toward von Schoenvorts . 
To my surprise he agreed that this was fair and told me that they would accept my conditions and that I could depend upon their loyalty to the common cause . 
I thanked him and then addressed each one of his men individually , and each gave me his word that he would abide by all that I had outlined . 
I then had arms and ammunition issued to the Germans , and leaving Bradley and five men to guard the U , the balance of us went ashore . 
The first thing we did was to taste the water of the little stream which , to our delight , we found sweet , pure and cold . 
This stream was entirely free from dangerous reptiles , because , as I later discovered , they became immediately dormant when subjected to a much lower temperature than degrees Fahrenheit . 
They dislike cold water and keep as far away from it as possible . 
Olson , von Schoenvorts , two Englishmen and two Germans accompanied me , leaving ten to guard the ship and the girl . 
I had intended leaving Nobs behind , but he got away and joined me and was so happy over it that I hadn't the heart to send him back . 
We followed the stream upward through a beautiful country for about five miles , and then came upon its source in a little boulder strewn clearing . 
From among the rocks bubbled fully twenty ice cold springs . 
North of the clearing rose sandstone cliffs to a height of some fifty to seventy five feet , with tall trees growing at their base and almost concealing them from our view . 
To the west the country was flat and sparsely wooded , and here it was that we saw our first game a large red deer . 
It was grazing away from us and had not seen us when one of my men called my attention to it . 
Motioning for silence and having the rest of the party lie down , I crept toward the quarry , accompanied only by Whitely . 
We got within a hundred yards of the deer when he suddenly raised his antlered head and pricked up his great ears . 
We both fired at once and had the satisfaction of seeing the buck drop then we ran forward to finish him with our knives . 
The deer lay in a small open space close to a clump of acacias , and we had advanced to within several yards of our kill when we both halted suddenly and simultaneously . 
Whitely looked at me , and I looked at Whitely , and then we both looked back in the direction of the deer . 
Hi wouldn't s'y that , sir , said Whitely it sounds blasphemous . 
The creature appeared to be a great lizard at least ten feet high , with a huge , powerful tail as long as its torso , mighty hind legs and short forelegs . 
The scaly body was covered with black and yellow spots about a foot in diameter and irregular in contour . 
These spots were outlined in red with edgings about an inch wide . 
The underside of the chest , body and tail were a greenish white . 
Wot s'y we pot the bloomin' bird , sir ? suggested Whitely . 
I told him to wait until I gave the word then we would fire simultaneously , he at the heart and I at the spine . 
Hat the 'eart , sir yes , sir , he replied , and raised his piece to his shoulder . 
Our shots rang out together . 
Beat it , Whitely ! I cried as I turned to run . 
We were about a quarter of a mile from the rest of our party , and in full sight of them as they lay in the tall grass watching us . 
That they saw all that had happened was evidenced by the fact that they now rose and ran toward us , and at their head leaped Nobs . 
The creature in our rear was gaining on us rapidly when Nobs flew past me like a meteor and rushed straight for the frightful reptile . 
I tried to recall him , but he would pay no attention to me , and as I couldn't see him sacrificed , I , too , stopped and faced the monster . 
Nobs , though , was lightning by comparison with the slow thinking beast and dodged his opponent's thrust with ease . 
Then he raced to the rear of the tremendous thing and seized it by the tail . 
There Nobs made the error of his life . 
Olson and von Schoenvorts came up a minute later with their men then we all cautiously approached the still form upon the ground . 
The creature was quite dead , and an examination resulted in disclosing the fact that Whitely's bullet had pierced its heart , and mine had severed the spinal cord . 
But why didn't it die instantly ? I exclaimed . 
The thing was dead when your bullets struck it but it did not know it for several seconds possibly a minute . 
If I am not mistaken , it is an Allosaurus of the Upper Jurassic , remains of which have been found in Central Wyoming , in the suburbs of New York . 
An Irishman by the name of Brady grinned . 
I afterward learned that he had served three years on the traffic squad of the Chicago police force . 
We gathered up what was left of the red deer after skinning and cleaning it , and set out upon our return journey toward the U boat . 
On the way Olson , von Schoenvorts and I discussed the needs of our immediate future , and we were unanimous in placing foremost the necessity of a permanent camp on shore . 
So we decided to construct a palisaded camp . 
Chapter As we strolled slowly back toward the boat , planning and discussing this , we were suddenly startled by a loud and unmistakable detonation . 
A shell from the U ! exclaimed von Schoenvorts . 
What can be after signifyin' ? queried Olson . 
They are in trouble , I answered for all , and it's up to us to get back to them . 
Drop that carcass , I directed the men carrying the meat , and follow me ! I set off at a rapid run in the direction of the harbor . 
Puffing and panting , we plodded on until within about a mile of the harbor we came upon a sight that brought us all up standing . 
It consisted of upward of five hundred individuals representing several species closely allied to man . 
There was one among the lot , evidently the leader of them , who bore a close resemblance to the so called Neanderthal man of La Chapelle aux Saints . 
All were males , and all were entirely naked nor was there upon even the highest among them a sign of ornamentation . 
At sight of us they turned with bared fangs and low growls to confront us . 
The others followed him , and in a minute we should have been overwhelmed . 
I gave the order to fire , and at the first volley six of them went down , including the Neanderthal man . 
The others hesitated a moment and then broke for the trees , some running nimbly among the branches , while others lost themselves to us between the boles . 
We set the men at work felling trees , selecting for the purpose jarrah , a hard , weather resisting timber which grew in profusion near by . 
Half the men labored while the other half stood guard , alternating each hour with an hour off at noon . 
Bradley , von Schoenvorts and I , with Miss La Rue's help , staked out the various buildings and the outer wall . 
He spent the afternoon shaping a swagger stick from the branch of jarrah and talking with Miss La Rue , who had sufficiently unbent toward him to notice his existence . 
The thing appeared to be some variety of pterodactyl , and what with its enormous size and ferocious aspect was most awe inspiring . 
There was another incident , too , which to me at least was far more unpleasant than the sudden onslaught of the prehistoric reptile . 
Two of the men , both Germans , were stripping a felled tree of its branches . 
Von Schoenvorts had completed his swagger stick , and he and I were passing close to where the two worked . 
One of them threw to his rear a small branch that he had just chopped off , and as misfortune would have it , it struck von Schoenvorts across the face . 
It couldn't have hurt him , for it didn't leave a mark but he flew into a terrific rage , shouting Attention ! in a loud voice . 
The sailor immediately straightened up , faced his officer , clicked his heels together and saluted . 
Pig ! roared the Baron , and struck the fellow across the face , breaking his nose . 
Nor did he move until I said to him Plesser , you may return to your quarters and dress your wound . 
Then he saluted and marched stiffly off toward the U . 
Just before dusk we moved out into the bay a hundred yards from shore and dropped anchor , for I felt that we should be safer there than elsewhere . 
At dinner we tasted our first roast Caprona antelope , and we had a mess of greens that the cook had found growing along the stream . 
All during the meal von Schoenvorts was silent and surly . 
After dinner we all went on deck and watched the unfamiliar scenes of a Capronian night that is , all but von Schoenvorts . 
There was less to see than to hear . 
From the great inland lake behind us came the hissing and the screaming of countless saurians . 
Miss La Rue was very quiet , though she replied graciously enough to whatever I had to say that required reply . 
I asked her if she did not feel well . 
Yes , she said , but I am depressed by the awfulness of it all . 
I feel of so little consequence so small and helpless in the face of all these myriad manifestations of life stripped to the bone of its savagery and brutality . 
I realize as never before how cheap and valueless a thing is life . 
Life seems a joke , a cruel , grim joke . 
You are a comic little figure , hopping from the cradle to the grave . 
Yes , that is our trouble we take ourselves too seriously but Caprona should be a sure cure for that . 
You have evolved a beautiful philosophy , I said . 
It fills such a longing in the human breast . 
It is full , it is satisfying , it is ennobling . 
What wonderous strides toward perfection the human race might have made if the first man had evolved it and it had persisted until now as the creed of humanity . 
I don't like irony , she said it indicates a small soul . 
What other sort of soul , then , would you expect from a comic little figure hopping from the cradle to the grave' ? I inquired . 
And what difference does it make , anyway , what you like and what you don't like ? You are here for but an instant , and you mustn't take yourself too seriously . 
She looked up at me with a smile . 
I imagine that I am frightened and blue , she said , and I know that I am very , very homesick and lonely . 
There was almost a sob in her voice as she concluded . 
It was the first time that she had spoken thus to me . 
Involuntarily , I laid my hand upon hers where it rested on the rail . 
I know how difficult your position is , I said but don't feel that you are alone . 
There is is one here who who would do anything in the world for you , I ended lamely . 
She did not withdraw her hand , and she looked up into my face with tears on her cheeks and I read in her eyes the thanks her lips could not voice . 
Then she looked away across the weird moonlit landscape and sighed . 
Evidently her new found philosophy had tumbled about her ears , for she was seemingly taking herself seriously . 
The following morning we started building operations in earnest , and things progressed finely . 
Lys spent a great deal of time talking to him and trying to draw him out but for a long while she was unsuccessful . 
It took us three weeks to build all the houses , which we constructed close by a cold spring some two miles from the harbor . 
I see in reading over the last few pages that I neglected to state that Lys finally discovered that the Neanderthal man possessed a language . 
She had learned to speak it , and so have I , to some extent . 
It was he his name he says is Am , or Ahm who told us that this country is called Caspak . 
When we asked him how far it extended , he waved both arms about his head in an all including gesture which took in , apparently , the entire universe . 
He is more tractable now , and we are going to release him , for he has assured us that he will not permit his fellows to harm us . 
He calls us Galus and says that in a short time he will be a Galu . 
It is not quite clear to us what he means . 
He says that there are many Galus north of us , and that as soon as he becomes one he will go and live with them . 
Ahm went out to hunt with us yesterday and was much impressed by the ease with which our rifles brought down antelopes and deer . 
A certain proportion of this we dry and store away , for we do not know what may come . 
Our drying process is really smoking . 
We have also dried a large quantity of two varieties of cereal which grow wild a few miles south of us . 
We have had to construct a second store house for the great quantity of this that we have gathered . 
September , Three months ago today the torpedo from the U started me from the peaceful deck of the American liner upon the strange voyage which has ended here in Caspak . 
We have settled down to an acceptance of our fate , for all are convinced that none of us will ever see the outer world again . 
Ahm's repeated assertions that there are human beings like ourselves in Caspak have roused the men to a keen desire for exploration . 
I sent out one party last week under Bradley . 
Ahm , who is now free to go and come as he wishes , accompanied them . 
They marched about twenty five miles due west , encountering many terrible beasts and reptiles and not a few manlike creatures whom Ahm sent away . 
Here is Bradley's report of the expedition Marched fifteen miles the first day , camping on the bank of a large stream which runs southward . 
Game was plentiful and we saw several varieties which we had not before encountered in Caspak . 
Just before making camp we were charged by an enormous woolly rhinoceros , which Plesser dropped with a perfect shot . 
We had rhinoceros steaks for supper . 
Ahm called the thing Atis . 
It was almost a continuous battle from the time we left the fort until we arrived at camp . 
The mind of man can scarce conceive the plethora of carnivorous life in this lost world and their prey , of course , is even more abundant . 
The second day we marched about ten miles to the foot of the cliffs . 
Passed through dense forests close to the base of the cliffs . 
Saw manlike creatures and a low order of ape in one band , and some of the men swore that there was a white man among them . 
They were inclined to attack us at first but a volley from our rifles caused them to change their minds . 
We scaled the cliffs as far as we could but near the top they are absolutely perpendicular without any sufficient cleft or protuberance to give hand or foot hold . 
All were disappointed , for we hungered for a view of the ocean and the outside world . 
We even had a hope that we might see and attract the attention of a passing ship . 
Our exploration has determined one thing which will probably be of little value to us and never heard of beyond Caprona's walls this crater was once entirely filled with water . 
Indisputable evidence of this is on the face of the cliffs . 
Our return journey occupied two days and was as filled with adventure as usual . 
We are all becoming accustomed to adventure . 
It is beginning to pall on us . 
We suffered no casualties and there was no illness . 
I had to smile as I read Bradley's report . 
In those four days he had doubtless passed through more adventures than an African big game hunter experiences in a lifetime , and yet he covered it all in a few lines . 
Yes , we are becoming accustomed to adventure . 
Not a day passes that one or more of us does not face death at least once . 
Ahm taught us a few things that have proved profitable and saved us much ammunition , which it is useless to expend except for food or in the last recourse of self preservation . 
To hit them elsewhere is worse than useless , for they do not seem to notice it , and we had discovered that such shots do not kill or even disable them . 
September , Much has happened since I last wrote . 
Bradley is away again on another exploration expedition to the cliffs . 
He expects to be gone several weeks and to follow along their base in search of a point where they may be scaled . 
He took Sinclair , Brady , James , and Tippet with him . 
Olson says there is a geyser of oil there , and von Schoenvorts is making preparations to refine it . 
If he succeeds , we shall have the means for leaving Caspak and returning to our own world . 
I can scarce believe the truth of it . 
We are all elated to the seventh heaven of bliss . 
Pray God we shall not be disappointed . 
I have tried on several occasions to broach the subject of my love to Lys but she will not listen . 
Chapter October , This is the last entry I shall make upon my manuscript . 
When this is done , I shall be through . 
I am alone upon the summit of the great cliff overlooking the broad Pacific . 
About the th of September I accompanied Olson and von Schoenvorts to the oil geyser . 
Lys came with us , and we took a number of things which von Schoenvorts wanted for the purpose of erecting a crude refinery . 
Then we disembarked and went inland about five miles , where we came upon a small lake entirely filled with oil , from the center of which a geyser of oil spouted . 
On the edge of the lake we helped von Schoenvorts build his primitive refinery . 
The U merely landed those of us that were to return to the fort and then retraced its course toward the oil well . 
Olson , Whitely , Wilson , Miss La Rue , and myself disembarked , while von Schoenvorts and his German crew returned to refine the oil . 
The next day Plesser and two other Germans came down overland for ammunition . 
Plesser said they had been attacked by wild men and had exhausted a great deal of ammunition . 
He also asked permission to get some dried meat and maize , saying that they were so busy with the work of refining that they had no time to hunt . 
I let him have everything he asked for , and never once did a suspicion of their intentions enter my mind . 
They returned to the oil well the same day , while we continued with the multitudinous duties of camp life . 
For three days nothing of moment occurred . 
Bradley did not return nor did we have any word from von Schoenvorts . 
In the evening Lys and I went up into one of the bastion towers and listened to the grim and terrible nightlife of the frightful ages of the past . 
Once a saber tooth screamed almost beneath us , and the girl shrank close against me . 
She did not struggle to free herself but instead her dear arms crept up about my neck and drew my own face even closer to hers . 
You love me , Lys ? I cried . 
I felt her head nod an affirmative against my breast . 
Tell me , Lys , I begged , tell me in words how much you love me . 
Low and sweet and tender came the answer I love you beyond all conception . 
We learned to know one another better in those two brief hours than we had in all the months that had intervened since we had been thrown together . 
She told me that she had loved me from the first , and that she never had loved von Schoenvorts , their engagement having been arranged by her aunt for social reasons . 
That was the happiest evening of my life nor ever do I expect to experience its like but at last , as is the way of happiness , it terminated . 
We descended to the compound , and I walked with Lys to the door of her quarters . 
There again she kissed me and bade me good night , and then she went in and closed the door . 
At last I turned in and fell asleep , dreaming happy dreams and planning for the future , for even in savage Caspak I was bound to make my girl safe and happy . 
It was daylight when I awoke . 
Wilson , who was acting as cook , was up and astir at his duties in the cook house . 
The others slept but I arose and followed by Nobs went down to the stream for a plunge . 
These brutes are enormous and exceedingly ferocious . 
I imagine they correspond with the cave hyena of prehistoric times . 
Whitely and Olson were up and dressed when we returned , and we all sat down to a good breakfast . 
I received no response , though I finally pounded with all my strength then I turned the knob and entered , only to find that she was not there . 
Her bed had been occupied , and her clothing lay where she had placed it the previous night upon retiring but Lys was gone . 
To say that I was distracted with terror would be to put it mildly . 
Though I knew she could not be in camp , I searched every square inch of the compound and all the buildings , yet without avail . 
It was Whitely who discovered the first clue a huge human like footprint in the soft earth beside the spring , and indications of a struggle in the mud . 
Then I found a tiny handkerchief close to the outer wall . 
Lys had been stolen ! It was all too plain . 
Some hideous member of the ape man tribe had entered the fort and carried her off . 
While I stood stunned and horrified at the frightful evidence before me , there came from the direction of the great lake an increasing sound that rose to the volume of a shriek . 
We all looked up as the noise approached apparently just above us , and a moment later there followed a terrific explosion which hurled us to the ground . 
When we clambered to our feet , we saw a large section of the west wall torn and shattered . 
It was Olson who first recovered from his daze sufficiently to guess the explanation of the phenomenon . 
A shell ! he cried . 
And there ain't no shells in Caspak besides what's on the U . 
The dirty boches are shellin' the fort . 
Come on ! And he grasped his rifle and started on a run toward the lake . 
It was over two miles , but we did not pause until the harbor was in view , and still we could not see the lake because of the sandstone cliffs which intervened . 
We ran as fast as we could around the lower end of the harbor , scrambled up the cliffs and at last stood upon their summit in full view of the lake . 
Von Schoenvorts had succeeded in refining the oil ! The cur had broken his every pledge and was leaving us there to our fates . 
He had even shelled the fort as a parting compliment nor could anything have been more truly Prussian than this leave taking of the Baron Friedrich von Schoenvorts . 
Olson , Whitely , Wilson , and I stood for a moment looking at one another . 
Then we began to speculate as to whether it had been an ape man or a Prussian that had abducted Lys . 
As soon as I had assured myself that such was the case , I made my preparations to follow and rescue her . 
Chapter It was a sad leave taking as in silence I shook hands with each of the three remaining men . 
Even poor Nobs appeared dejected as we quit the compound and set out upon the well marked spoor of the abductor . 
Not once did I turn my eyes backward toward Fort Dinosaur . 
I have not looked upon it since nor in all likelihood shall I ever look upon it again . 
These creatures fed together in perfect amity nor did they show any great indications of terror when Nobs and I approached . 
They moved out of our way and kept their eyes upon us until we had passed then they resumed their feeding . 
The path led straight across the clearing into another forest , lying upon the verge of which I saw a bit of white . 
On the other hand the quantity of ruminants and the variety and frequency of carnivorous animals increased . 
Each square mile of Caspak harbored its terrors . 
I wondered again as I had so many times that day if it had not been Ahm who stole Lys . 
They were human and yet not human . 
Their features were distinctly negroid , though their skins were white . 
A considerable portion of both torso and limbs were covered with short hair , and their physical proportions were in many aspects apelike , though not so much so as were Ahm's . 
They carried themselves in a more erect position , although their arms were considerably longer than those of the Neanderthal man . 
Evidently they were very low in the scale of humanity , but they were a step upward from those I had previously seen in Caspak . 
It was Lys , and she was alive and so far as I could see , unharmed . 
A huge brute with thick lips and prognathous jaw stood at her shoulder . 
He was talking loudly and gesticulating wildly . 
I was close enough to hear his words , which were similar to the language of Ahm , though much fuller , for there were many words I could not understand . 
It appeared to me , as I afterward learned was the fact , that I was witnessing the most primitive of marriage ceremonies . 
The assembled members of the tribe looked on and listened in a sort of dull and perfunctory apathy , for the speaker was by far the mightiest of the clan . 
There seemed no one to dispute his claims when he said , or rather shouted , in stentorian tones I am Tsa . 
Who wishes her more than Tsa ? I do , I said in the language of Ahm , and I stepped out into the firelight before them . 
Lys gave a little cry of joy and started toward me , but Tsa grasped her arm and dragged her back . 
Who are you ? shrieked Tsa . 
I kill ! I kill ! I kill ! The she is mine , I replied , and I have come to claim her . 
I kill if you do not let her come to me . 
And I raised my pistol to a level with his heart . 
Of course the creature had no conception of the purpose of the strange little implement which I was poking toward him . 
With a sound that was half human and half the growl of a wild beast , he sprang toward me . 
It was the night life of this jungle world coming into its own the huge , carnivorous nocturnal beasts which make the nights of Caspak hideous . 
A shuddering sob ran through Lys' figure . 
Come , I said to Lys , we must follow them . 
We cannot last a half hour out here . 
We must find a cave . 
Already we could see the blazing green eyes of the hungry carnivora . 
Selecting a burning branch for each of us , we advanced toward the cliffs , where we were met by angry threats . 
They will kill us , said Lys . 
We may as well keep on in search of another refuge . 
They will not kill us so surely as will those others out there , I replied . 
I am going to seek shelter in one of these caves nor will the man things prevent . 
And I kept on in the direction of the cliff's base . 
A huge creature stood upon a ledge and brandished his stone hatchet . 
Come and I will kill you and take the she , he boasted . 
You saw how Tsa fared when he would have kept my she , I replied in his own tongue . 
Thus will you fare and all your fellows if you do not permit us to come in peace among you out of the dangers of the night . 
Go north , he screamed . 
Go north among the Galus , and we will not harm you . 
Some day will we be Galus but now we are not . 
You do not belong among us . 
Go away or we will kill you . 
The she may remain if she is afraid , and we will keep her but the he must depart . 
The he won't depart , I replied , and approached still nearer . 
Rough and narrow ledges formed by nature gave access to the upper caves . 
I do not fear you , screamed the creature . 
You were close to Tsa but I am far above you . 
You cannot harm me as you harmed Tsa . 
Go away ! I placed a foot upon the lowest ledge and clambered upward , reaching down and pulling Lys to my side . 
Soon we would be out of danger of the beasts again closing in upon us . 
The man above us raised his stone hatchet above his head and leaped lightly down to meet us . 
His position above me gave him a great advantage , or at least so he probably thought , for he came with every show of confidence . 
I hated to do it , but there seemed no other way , and so I shot him down as I had shot down Tsa . 
You see , I cried to his fellows , that I can kill you wherever you may be . 
A long way off I can kill you as well as I can kill you near by . 
Let us come among you in peace . 
I will not harm you if you do not harm us . 
We will take a cave high up . 
Speak ! Come , then , said one . 
If you will not harm us , you may come . 
Take Tsa's hole , which lies above you . 
The creature showed us the mouth of a black cave , but he kept at a distance while he did it , and Lys followed me as I crawled in to explore . 
I had matches with me , and in the light of one I found a small cavern with a flat roof and floor which followed the cleavage of the strata . 
Pieces of the roof had fallen at some long distant date , as was evidenced by the depth of the filth and rubble in which they were embedded . 
With considerable difficulty I loosened some of the larger pieces of broken rock which littered the floor and placed them as a barrier before the doorway . 
It was too dark to do more than this . 
In the light of the great fire still burning we could see huge , skulking forms , and in the blacker background countless flaming eyes . 
Lys shuddered , and I put my arm around her and drew her to me and thus we sat throughout the hot night . 
He was the first to fall asleep but I imagine we must have followed suit soon , for we were both tired . 
I had laid aside my ammunition belt and rifle , though both were close beside me but my pistol I kept in my lap beneath my hand . 
However , we were not disturbed during the night , and when I awoke , the sun was shining on the tree tops in the distance . 
Lys' head had drooped to my breast , and my arm was still about her . 
Shortly afterward Lys awoke , and for a moment she could not seem to comprehend her situation . 
I drew her back toward me and kissed her , and then she threw her arms about my neck and wept softly in mute surrender to the inevitable . 
It was an hour later before the tribe began to stir about . 
We watched them from our apartment , as Lys called it . 
Neither men nor women wore any sort of clothing or ornaments , and they all seemed to be about of an age nor were there any babies or children among them . 
After a while they became less suspicious of us and then quite friendly in their brutish way . 
They picked at the fabric of our clothing , which seemed to interest them , and examined my rifle and pistol and the ammunition in the belt around my waist . 
One thing we both noticed among their other characteristics they never laughed nor smiled and then we remembered that Ahm had never done so , either . 
I asked them if they knew Ahm but they said they did not . 
One of them said Back there we may have known him . 
And he jerked his head to the south . 
You came from back there ? I asked . 
He looked at me in surprise . 
We all come from there , he said . 
After a while we go there . 
And this time he jerked his head toward the north . 
Be Galus , he concluded . 
Many times now had we heard this reference to becoming Galus . 
Ahm had spoken of it many times . 
It was a brilliant theory , but it was all wrong . 
If I could live to return to civilization , I should have meat for the clergy and the layman to chew upon for years and for the evolutionists , too . 
After breakfast the men set out to hunt , while the women went to a large pool of warm water covered with a green scum and filled with billions of tadpoles . 
They waded in to where the water was about a foot deep and lay down in the mud . 
They remained there from one to two hours and then returned to the cliff . 
While we were with them , we saw this same thing repeated every morning but though we asked them why they did it we could get no reply which was intelligible to us . 
All they vouchsafed in way of explanation was the single word Ata . 
They tried to get Lys to go in with them and could not understand why she refused . 
There was no spoor of wild beast in the soft mud along the banks , and the water certainly didn't look fit to drink . 
The little horses and the smaller antelope they secured in sufficient numbers to support life , and they also ate numerous varieties of fruits and vegetables . 
They never brought in more than sufficient food for their immediate needs but why bother ? The food problem of Caspak is not one to cause worry to her inhabitants . 
I also wanted to relieve their minds as to Lys and myself , as I knew that they must have already given us up for dead . 
It was a cloudy day , though warm , as it always is in Caspak . 
I called a few times and waited , but there was no response and no one came . 
At last I became disgusted , and cutting off all the meat that I could conveniently carry , I set off in the direction of the cliffs . 
I must have gone about a mile before the truth dawn upon me I was lost , hopelessly lost . 
The entire sky was still completely blotted out by dense clouds nor was there any landmark visible by which I might have taken my bearings . 
I went on in the direction I thought was south but which I now imagine must have been about due north , without detecting a single familiar object . 
In a dense wood I suddenly stumbled upon a thing which at first filled me with hope and later with the most utter despair and dejection . 
It was a little mound of new turned earth sprinkled with flowers long since withered , and at one end was a flat slab of sandstone stuck in the ground . 
It was a grave , and it meant for me that I had at last stumbled into a country inhabited by human beings . 
This is what I read HERE LIES JOHN TIPPET ENGLISHMAN KILLED BY TYRANNOSAURUS SEPT . 
, A. D. R. I. P. Tippet ! It seemed incredible . 
Tippet lying here in this gloomy wood ! Tippet dead ! He had been a good man , but the personal loss was not what affected me . 
As I fell , a warm body fell on top of me , and hands grasped my arms and legs . 
When I could look up , I saw a number of giant fingers pinioning me down , while others stood about surveying me . 
Here again was a new type of man a higher type than the primitive tribe I had just quitted . 
They were a taller people , too , with better shaped skulls and more intelligent faces . 
There were less of the ape characteristics about their features , and less of the negroid , too . 
Of course I did not take in all these details upon the instant of my capture , for I was busy with other matters . 
This stopped them all temporarily not the death of their fellow , but the report of the rifle , the first they had ever heard . 
He commanded them to stand back and then he advanced and addressed me . 
He asked me who I was , from whence I came and what my intentions were . 
I replied that I was a stranger in Caspak , that I was lost and that my only desire was to find my way back to my companions . 
He asked where they were and I told him toward the south somewhere , using the Caspakian phrase which , literally translated , means toward the beginning . 
His surprise showed upon his face before he voiced it in words . 
There are no Galus there , he said . 
I tell you , I said angrily , that I am from another country , far from Caspak , far beyond the high cliffs . 
I do not know who the Galus may be I have never seen them . 
This is the farthest north I have been . 
Look at me look at my clothing and my weapons . 
I refused to give him my rifle , but promised to show him the trick he wished to learn if he would guide me in the right direction . 
He told me that he would do so tomorrow , that it was too late today and that I might come to their village and spend the night with them . 
I was loath to lose so much time but the fellow was obdurate , and so I accompanied them . 
The two dead men they left where they had fallen , nor gave them a second glance thus cheap is life upon Caspak . 
These people also were cave dwellers , but their caves showed the result of a higher intelligence that brought them a step nearer to civilized man than the tribe next toward the beginning . 
The walls of the cavern to which I was conducted were covered with drawings scratched upon the sandstone . 
There were the outlines of the giant red deer , of mammoths , of tigers and other beasts . 
Here , as in the last tribe , there were no children or any old people . 
The chief's name was To jo , and his household consisted of seven females and himself . 
They were all much interested in me and examined my clothing and equipment carefully , handling and feeling and smelling of each article . 
I learned from them that their people were known as Bandlu , or spear men Tsa's race was called Sto lu hatchet men . 
Below these in the scale of evolution came the Bo lu , or club men , and then the Alus , who had no weapons and no language . 
It was the sole remaining thread of the ancient woof of a dawning culture which had been woven when Caprona was a fiery mount upon a great land mass teeming with life . 
It linked the unfathomable then to the eternal now . 
I leaped between them while he was still kicking her , and obtaining a quick hold upon him , dragged him screaming with pain from the cave . 
Then I made him promise not to hurt the she again , upon pain of worse punishment . 
So ta gave me a grateful look but To jo and the balance of his women were sullen and ominous . 
Later in the evening So ta confided to me that she was soon to leave the tribe . 
So ta soon to be Kro lu , she confided in a low whisper . 
I asked her what a Kro lu might be , and she tried to explain , but I do not yet know if I understood her . 
It was all very fragmentary and vague , but the idea seemed to be that the Kro lus were a more advanced people than the Band lus . 
I pondered a long time upon all that I had heard , before sleep came to me . 
I tried to find some connection between these various races that would explain the universal hope which each of them harbored that some day they would become Galus . 
Possibly in the outer world the answer to it is locked in the bosom of the Sphinx . 
Who knows ? I do not . 
How they did it without awakening me I cannot tell you . 
It was humiliating , but it was true . 
To jo stood above me . 
The early light of morning was dimly filtering into the cave . 
Of all the ingenuous declarations I have ever heard , this one copped the proverbial bun . 
It struck me as so funny that , even in the face of death , I laughed . 
Death , I may remark here , had , however , lost much of his terror for me . 
I had become a disciple of Lys' fleeting philosophy of the valuelessness of human life . 
Behind To jo stood So ta . 
She raised one hand with the palm toward me the Caspakian equivalent of a negative shake of the head . 
Let me think about it , I parried , and To jo said that he would wait until night . 
Ata , explained So ta , when I questioned her as to the purpose of this matutinal rite but that was later . 
I must have lain there bound and uncomfortable for two or three hours when at last So ta entered the cave . 
She carried a sharp knife mine , in fact , and with it she cut my bonds . 
So ta will go with you back to the Galus . 
It is time that So ta left the Band lu . 
Together we will go to the Kro lu , and after that the Galus . 
To jo will kill you tonight . 
He will kill So ta if he knows that So ta aided you . 
I will go with you to the Kro lu , I replied , but then I must return to my own people toward the beginning . 
You cannot go back , she said . 
Thus far have you come there is no returning . 
But I must return , I insisted . 
I must return and lead them in this direction . 
She insisted , and I insisted but at last we compromised . 
For three days we continued upon our way , until we arrived outside a village of thatched huts just at dusk . 
She was a dear girl and a stanch and true comrade more like a man than a woman . 
In her simple barbaric way she was both refined and chaste . 
She had been the wife of To jo . 
On the third day I made a detour westward to avoid the country of the Band lu , as I did not care to be detained by a meeting with To jo . 
On the sixth day I came to the cliffs of the Sto lu , and my heart beat fast as I approached them , for here was Lys . 
Soon I would hold her tight in my arms again soon her warm lips would merge with mine . 
It was late in the morning . 
The women must have returned from the pool yet as I drew near , I saw no sign of life whatever . 
They have remained longer , I thought but when I was quite close to the base of the cliffs , I saw that which dashed my hopes and my happiness to earth . 
Hope , then , still lived . 
For another three days I searched north and south , east and west for the hatchetmen of Caspak but never a trace of them did I find . 
It was raining most of the time now , and the weather was as near cold as it ever seems to get on Caprona . 
At last I gave up the search and set off toward Fort Dinosaur . 
For a week a week filled with the terrors and dangers of a primeval world I pushed on in the direction I thought was south . 
The sun never shone the rain scarcely ever ceased falling . 
I think that I almost gave up then . 
Never in my life have I felt more hopeless or helpless or alone . 
I could not find my friends . 
I did not even know that they still lived in fact , I could not bring myself to believe that they did . 
I was sure that Lys was dead . 
I wanted myself to die , and yet I clung to life useless and hopeless and harrowing a thing as it had become . 
At last I came to the great barrier cliffs and after three days of mad effort of maniacal effort I scaled them . 
I built crude ladders I wedged sticks in narrow fissures I chopped toe holds and finger holds with my long knife but at last I scaled them . 
Near the summit I came upon a huge cavern . 
It is the abode of some mighty winged creature of the Triassic or rather it was . 
I slew the thing and took its abode . 
I reached the summit and looked out upon the broad gray terrible Pacific of the far southern winter . 
It was cold up there . 
It is cold here today yet here I sit watching , watching , watching for the thing I know will never come for a sail . 
Chapter Once a day I descend to the base of the cliff and hunt , and fill my stomach with water from a clear cold spring . 
I have three gourds which I fill with water and take back to my cave against the long nights . 
I have fashioned a spear and a bow and arrow , that I may conserve my ammunition , which is running low . 
My clothes are worn to shreds . 
Tomorrow I shall discard them for leopard skins which I have tanned and sewn into a garment strong and warm . 
It is cold up here . 
I have a fire burning and I sit bent over it while I write but I am safe here . 
No other living creature ventures to the chill summit of the barrier cliffs . 
I am safe , and I am alone with my sorrows and my remembered joys but without hope . 
It is said that hope springs eternal in the human breast but there is none in mine . 
Presently I shall fold these pages and push them into my thermos bottle . 
I shall cork it and screw the cap tight , and then I shall hurl it as far out into the sea as my strength will permit . 
A fourth beast lay dead or dying near by . 
The first wave of sudden joy which surged through me was short lived in the face of the swift following conviction that the one who fought below was already doomed . 
And maybe it was Lys ! My heart stood still at the thought , but mind and muscle responded to the quick decision I was forced to make . 
There was but a single hope a single chance and I took it . 
I raised my rifle to my shoulder and took careful aim . 
It was a long shot , a dangerous shot , for unless one is accustomed to it , shooting from a considerable altitude is most deceptive work . 
There is , though , something about marksmanship which is quite beyond all scientific laws . 
Upon no other theory can I explain my marksmanship of that moment . 
Three times my rifle spoke three quick , short syllables of death . 
From rock to rock , chamoislike , I leaped downward toward the valley , in pursuit of Lys and her hideous abductor . 
He was heavier than I by many pounds , and so weighted by the burden he carried that I easily overtook him and at last he turned , snarling , to face me . 
It was Kho of the tribe of Tsa , the hatchet men . 
He recognized me , and with a low growl he threw Lys aside and came for me . 
The she is mine , he cried . 
Kho closed and sought my jugular with his teeth . 
He seemed to forget the hatchet dangling by its aurochs hide thong at his hip , as I forgot , for the moment , the dagger in my hand . 
Your knife ! Your knife ! It was enough . 
It recalled me from the forgotten eon to which my brain had flown and left me once again a modern man battling with a clumsy , unskilled brute . 
No longer did my jaws snap at the hairy throat before me but instead my knife sought and found a space between two ribs over the savage heart . 
Kho voiced a single horrid scream , stiffened spasmodically and sank to the earth . 
And Lys threw herself into my arms . 
All the fears and sorrows of the past were wiped away , and once again I was the happiest of men . 
I asked her if she thought she could brave the ascent , and she laughed gayly in my face . 
Watch ! she cried , and ran eagerly toward the base of the cliff . 
Like a squirrel she clambered swiftly aloft , so that I was forced to exert myself to keep pace with her . 
For a time Nobs had been all the protection she required but one day he disappeared nor has she seen him since . 
She believes that he was deliberately made away with and so do I , for we both are sure that he never would have deserted her . 
For three days he has pursued me , she said , through this horrible world . 
How I have passed through in safety I cannot guess , nor how I have always managed to outdistance him yet I have done it , until just as you discovered me . 
Fate was kind to us , Bowen . 
I nodded my head in assent and crushed her to me . 
It is a hard , fierce , dangerous life , and I shall pray always that we shall be rescued from it for her sake . 
No human agency could have married us more sacredly than we are wed . 
We are man and wife , and we are content . 
If God wills it , we shall live out our lives here . 
If He wills otherwise , then this manuscript which I shall now consign to the inscrutable forces of the sea shall fall into friendly hands . 
However , we are each without hope . 
And so we say good bye in this , our last message to the world beyond the barrier cliffs . 
Bowen J. Tyler , Jr . 
