This Project Gutenberg Etext Prepared by Michael J. Leonard Division of Undergraduate Studies The Pennsylvania State University Grange Building University Park , PA e mail mjl psu . 
edu The Mansion By Henry van Dyke There was an air of calm and reserved opulence about the Weightman mansion that spoke not of money squandered , but of wealth prudently applied . 
Standing on a corner of the Avenue no longer fashionable for residence , it looked upon the swelling tide of business with an expression of complacency and half disdain . 
The house was not beautiful . 
But it was eminently respectable , and in its way imposing . 
At the same time there was something self pleased and congratulatory in the way in which the mansion held its own amid the changing neighborhood . 
It almost seemed to be lifted up a little , among the tall buildings near at hand , as if it felt the rising value of the land on which it stood . 
John Weightman was like the house into which he had built himself thirty years ago , and in which his ideals and ambitions were incrusted . 
He was a self made man . 
But in making himself he had chosen a highly esteemed pattern and worked according to the approved rules . 
There was nothing irregular , questionable , flamboyant about him . 
He was solid , correct , and justly successful . 
His minor tastes , of course , had been carefully kept up to date . 
It contained a Louis Quinze reception room , an Empire drawing room , a Jacobean dining room , and various apartments dimly reminiscent of the styles of furniture affected by deceased monarchs . 
That the hallways were too short for the historic perspective did not make much difference . 
American decorative art is capable de tout , it absorbs all periods . 
Of each period Mr. Weightman wished to have something of the best . 
He understood its value , present as a certificate , and prospective as an investment . 
It was only in the architecture of his town house that he remained conservative , immovable , one might almost say Early Victorian Christian . 
His country house at Dulwich on the Sound was a palace of the Italian Renaissance . 
But in town he adhered to an architecture which had moral associations , the Nineteenth Century Brownstone epoch . 
It was a symbol of his social position , his religious doctrine , and even , in a way , of his business creed . 
A man of fixed principles , he would say , should express them in the looks of his house . 
New York changes its domestic architecture too rapidly . 
Extravagance and fickleness are advertised in most of these new houses . 
I wish to be known for different qualities . 
Dignity and prudence are the things that people trust . 
Every one knows that I can afford to live in the house that suits me . 
It is a guarantee to the public . 
There is a text in the Bible about 'a house that hath foundations . 
That is the proper kind of a mansion for a solid man . 
Harold Weightman had often listened to his father discoursing in this fashion on the fundamental principles of life , and always with a divided mind . 
He admired immensely his father's talents and the single minded energy with which he improved them . 
But in the paternal philosophy there was something that disquieted and oppressed the young man , and made him gasp inwardly for fresh air and free action . 
John Weightman was not hasty , impulsive , inconsiderate , even toward his own children . 
With them , as with the rest of the world , he felt that he had a reputation to maintain , a theory to vindicate . 
He could afford to give them time to see that he was absolutely right . 
One of his favorite Scripture quotations was , Wait on the Lord . 
He had applied it to real estate and to people , with profitable results . 
But to human persons the sensation of being waited for is not always agreeable . 
Sometimes , especially with the young , it produces a vague restlessness , a dumb resentment , which is increased by the fact that one can hardly explain or justify it . 
Of this John Weightman was not conscious . 
It lay beyond his horizon . 
He did not take it into account in the plan of life which he made for himself and for his family as the sharers and inheritors of his success . 
Father plays us , said Harold , in a moment of irritation , to his mother , like pieces in a game of chess . 
My dear , said that lady , whose faith in her husband was religious , you ought not to speak so impatiently . 
At least he wins the game . 
He is one of the most respected men in New York . 
And he is very generous , too . 
I wish he would be more generous in letting us be ourselves , said the young man . 
He always has something in view for us and expects to move us up to it . 
But isn't it always for our benefit ? replied his mother . 
Look what a position we have . 
No one can say there is any taint on our money . 
There are no rumors about your father . 
He has kept the laws of God and of man . 
He has never made any mistakes . 
Harold got up from his chair and poked the fire . 
Then he came back to the ample , well gowned , firm looking lady , and sat beside her on the sofa . 
Mother , he said , you have a wonderful hand . 
And father made no mistake when he won you . 
But are you sure he has always been so inerrant ? Harold , she exclaimed , a little stiffly , what do you mean ? His life is an open book . 
Oh , he answered , I don't mean anything bad , mother dear . 
My boy , said his mother , anxiously , you are not going to do anything wrong or foolish ? You know the falsehood of that old proverb about wild oats . 
He threw back his head and laughed . 
Yes , mother , he answered , I know it well enough . 
But in California , you know , the wild oats are one of the most valuable crops . 
They grow all over the hillsides and keep the cattle and the horses alive . 
But that wasn't what I meant to sow wild oats . 
I feel like a hired man , in the service of this magnificent mansion say in training for father's place as majordomo . 
I'd like to get out some way , to feel free perhaps to do something for others . 
The young man's voice hesitated a little . 
His mother moved uneasily , and a slight look of bewilderment came into her face . 
Isn't that almost irreverent ? she asked . 
Surely the righteous must have their reward . 
And your father is good . 
See how much he gives to all the established charities , how many things he has founded . 
He's always thinking of others , and planning for them . 
And surely , for us , he does everything . 
He says Lord Halverstone has the finest old house in Sussex , pure Elizabethan , and all the old customs are kept up , too family prayers every morning for all the domestics . 
By the way , you know his son Bertie , I believe . 
But you ? mother , you are simply magnificent ! You are father's masterpiece . 
The young man leaned over to kiss her , and went up to the Riding Club for his afternoon canter in the Park . 
The machinery of the massive establishment ran as smoothly as a great electric dynamo . 
They were busy enough , too . 
John Weightman's plans and enterprises were complicated , though his principle of action was always simple to get good value for every expenditure and effort . 
There were board meetings of corporations and hospitals , conferences in Wall Street and at Albany , consultations and committee meetings in the brownstone mansion . 
Meantime he wished the young man to meet and know the men with whom he would have to deal when he became a partner in the house . 
All the principles by which I have tried to guide my life have been justified . 
But it is a wasteful , useless habit , and therefore I have never practised it . 
Nothing useless is worth while , that's my motto nothing that does not bring the reward . 
Oh , now I recall the text , 'Verily I say unto you they have their reward . 
I shall ask Doctor Snodgrass to preach a sermon on that verse some day . 
Using you as an illustration ? Well , not exactly that but I could give him some good materials from my own experience to prove the truth of Scripture . 
That always seems to me romantic and wasteful . 
You never hear from it in any definite way . 
They say the missionaries have done a good deal to open the way for trade perhaps but they have also gotten us into commercial and political difficulties . 
But the best forms of benevolence are the well established , organized ones here at home , where people can see them and know what they are doing . 
You mean the ones that have a local habitation and a name . 
Yes they offer by far the safest return , though of course there is something gained by contributing to general funds . 
A public man can't afford to be without public spirit . 
But on the whole I prefer a building , or an endowment . 
There is a mutual advantage to a good name and a good institution in their connection in the public mind . 
Remember that , my boy . 
Of course at the beginning you will have to practise it in a small way later , you will have larger opportunities . 
But try to put your gifts where they can be identified and do good all around . 
You'll see the wisdom of it in the long run . 
I can see it already , sir , and the way you describe it looks amazingly wise and prudent . 
The father laughed , but his eyes were frowning a little as if he suspected something irreverent under the respectful reply . 
You put it humorously , but there's sense in what you say . 
Why not ? God rules the sea but He expects us to follow the laws of navigation and commerce . 
His half finished cigar had gone out . 
The fact is , sir , he continued , there is such a case in my mind now , and it is a good deal on my heart , too . 
So I thought of speaking to you about it to night . 
You remember Tom Rollins , the Junior who was so good to me when I entered college ? The father nodded . 
Yes , he said , I remember him . 
He was a promising young man . 
Has he succeeded ? Not exactly that is not yet . 
His business has been going rather badly . 
He has a wife and little baby , you know . 
And now he has broken down , something wrong with his lungs . 
The doctor says his only chance is a year or eighteen months in Colorado . 
I wish we could help him . 
How much would it cost ? Three or four thousand , perhaps , as a loan . 
Does the doctor say he will get well ? A fighting chance the doctor says . 
The face of the older man changed subtly . 
Not a line was altered , but it seemed to have a different substance , as if it were carved out of some firm , imperishable stuff . 
A fighting chance , he said , may do for a speculation , but it is not a good investment . 
You owe something to young Rollins . 
Your grateful feeling does you credit . 
Send him three or four hundred , if you like . 
You'll never hear from it again , except in the letter of thanks . 
But for Heaven's sake don't be sentimental . 
Religion is not a matter of sentiment it's a matter of principle . 
The face of the younger man changed now . 
But instead of becoming fixed and graven , it seemed to melt into life by the heat of an inward fire . 
His nostrils quivered with quick breath , his lips were curled . 
You mean principal and interest too . 
Well , sir , you know best whether that is religion or not . 
But if it is , count me out , please . 
Tom saved me from going to the devil , six years ago and I'll be damned if I don't help him to the best of my ability now . 
John Weightman looked at his son steadily . 
Harold , he said at last , you know I dislike violent language , and it never has any influence with me . 
If I could honestly approve of this proposition of yours , I'd let you have the money but I can't it's extravagant and useless . 
But you have your Christmas check for a thousand dollars coming to you to morrow . 
You can use it as you please . 
I never interfere with your private affairs . 
Thank you , said Harold . 
Thank you very much ! But there's another private affair . 
I want to get away from this life , this town , this house . 
You refused last summer when I asked you to let me go up to Grenfell's Mission on the Labrador . 
I could go now , at least as far as the Newfoundland Station . 
Have you changed your mind ? Not at all . 
I think it is an exceedingly foolish enterprise . 
It would interrupt the career that I have marked out for you . 
Well , then , here's a cheaper proposition . 
Algy Vanderhoof wants me to join him on his yacht with well , with a little party to cruise in the West Indies . 
It is rather a hard choice , said the young man , with a short laugh , turning toward the door . 
Anyway , I'm sick of this , and I'm out of it . 
, don't let us quarrel on Christmas Eve . 
The young man came back and laid his hand upon his father's shoulder . 
Father , he said , I want to remember it . 
I try to believe in it . 
But somehow or other , in this house , it all seems unreal to me . 
No doubt all you say is perfectly right and wise . 
I don't venture to argue against it , but I can't feel it that's all . 
If I'm to have a soul , either to lose or to save , I must really live . 
Just now neither the present nor the future means anything to me . 
But surely we won't quarrel . 
I'm very grateful to you , and we'll part friends . 
The father held out his hand in silence . 
The heavy portiere dropped noiselessly behind the son , and he went up the wide , curving stairway to his own room . 
Meantime John Weightman sat in his carved chair in the Jacobean dining room . 
He felt strangely old and dull . 
The portraits of beautiful women by Lawrence and Reynolds and Raeburn , which had often seemed like real company to him , looked remote and uninteresting . 
He fancied something cold and almost unfriendly in their expression , as if they were staring through him or beyond him . 
They cared nothing for his principles , his hopes , his disappointments , his successes they belonged to another world , in which he had no place . 
At this he felt a vague resentment , a sense of discomfort that he could not have defined or explained . 
He was used to being considered , respected , appreciated at his full value in every region , even in that of his own dreams . 
His eye fell upon the low shelves full of costly books , but he had no desire to open them . 
Even the carefully chosen pictures that hung above them seemed to have lost their attraction . 
He paused for a moment before an idyll of Corot a dance of nymphs around some forgotten altar in a vaporous glade and looked at it curiously . 
It represented something that he had never known in his calculated , orderly life . 
He was dimly mistrustful of it . 
It is certainly very beautiful , he thought , but it is distinctly pagan that altar is built to some heathen god . 
It does not fit into the scheme of a Christian life . 
I doubt whether it is consistent with the tone of my house . 
I will sell it this winter . 
It will bring three or four times what I paid for it . 
That was a good purchase , a very good bargain . 
He dropped into the revolving chair before his big library table . 
It was covered with pamphlets and reports of the various enterprises in which he was interested . 
He turned he papers over listlessly . 
This last was perhaps the most carefully planned of all the Weightman Charities . 
He desired to win the confidence and support of his rural neighbors . 
Why not ? The Weightman interests were large enough to need a direct representative and guardian at Washington . 
But to night all these plans came back to him with dust upon them . 
They were dry and crumbling like forsaken habitations . 
The son upon whom his complacent ambition had rested had turned his back upon the mansion of his father's hopes . 
The break might not be final and in any event there would be much to live for the fortunes of the family would be secure . 
But the zest of it all would be gone if John Weightman had to give up the assurance of perpetuating his name and his principles in his son . 
It was a bitter disappointment , and he felt that he had not deserved it . 
He rose from the chair and paced the room with leaden feet . 
For the first time in his life his age was visibly upon him . 
His head was heavy and hot , and the thoughts that rolled in it were confused and depressing . 
It held a silent attack which touched him more than open criticism . 
Yes , that was the true source of comfort , after all . 
He would read a bit in the Bible , as he did every night , and go to bed and to sleep . 
He went back to his chair at the library table . 
A strange weight of weariness rested upon him , but he opened the book at a familiar place , and his eyes fell upon the verse at the bottom of the page . 
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth . 
That had been the text of the sermon a few weeks before . 
Sleepily , heavily , he tried to fix his mind upon it and recall it . 
What was it that Doctor Snodgrass had said ? Ah , yes that it was a mistake to pause here in reading the verse . 
We must read on without a pause Lay not up treasures upon earth where moth and rust do corrupt and where thieves break through and steal that was the true doctrine . 
We may have treasures upon earth , but they must not be put into unsafe places , but into safe places . 
A most comforting doctrine ! He had always followed it . 
Moths and rust and thieves had done no harm to his investments . 
John Weightman's drooping eyes turned to the next verse , at the top of the second column . 
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven . 
Now what had the Doctor said about that ? How was it to be understood in what sense treasures in heaven ? The book seemed to float away from him . 
He wondered dimly if this could be Death , coming so suddenly , so quietly , so irresistibly . 
He struggled for a moment to hold himself up , and then sank slowly forward upon the table . 
His head rested upon his folded hands . 
He slipped into the unknown . 
How long afterward conscious life returned to him he did not know . 
The blank might have been an hour or a century . 
He knew only that omething had happened in the interval . 
What is was he could not tell . 
He found great difficulty in catching the thread of his identity again . 
He felt that he was himself but the trouble was to make his connections , to verify and place himself , to know who and where he was . 
At last it grew clear . 
John Weightman was sitting on a stone , not far from a road in a strange land . 
The road was not a formal highway , fenced and graded . 
It was more like a great travel trace , worn by thousands of feet passing across the open country in the same direction . 
They were all clothed in white , and the form of their garments was strange to him it was like some old picture . 
For a long time he sat there watching and wondering . 
Presently he felt a strong desire to know what country it was and where the people were going . 
He had a faint premonition of what it must be , but he wished to be sure . 
So he rose from the stone where he was sitting , and came down through the short grass and the lavender flowers , toward a passing group of people . 
One of them turned to meet him , and held out his hand . 
Welcome , said the old man . 
Will you come with us ? Where are you going ? To the heavenly city , to see our mansions there . 
And who are these with you ? Strangers to me , until a little while ago I know them better now . 
But you I have known for a long time , John Weightman . 
Don't you remember your old doctor ? Yes , he cried yes your voice has not changed at all . 
I'm glad indeed to see you , Doctor McLean , especially now . 
All this seems very strange to me , almost oppressive . 
I wonder if but may I go with you , do you suppose ? Surely , answered the doctor , with his familiar smile it will do you good . 
But I will go with you , and we can talk by the way . 
The two men quickly caught up with the other people , and all went forward together along the road . 
John Weightman's adventures and triumphs would have made a far richer , more imposing history , full of contacts with the great events and personages of the time . 
It was a surprise to find him here , as care free and joyful as the rest . 
John Weightman joined in some of the songs which were familiar to him from their use in the church at first with a touch of hesitation , and then more confidently . 
For as they went on his sense of strangeness and fear at his new experience diminished , and his thoughts began to take on their habitual assurance and complacency . 
Were not these people going to the Celestial City ? And was not he in his right place among them ? He had always looked forward to this journey . 
If they were sure , each one , of finding a mansion there , could not he be far more sure ? His life had been more fruitful than theirs . 
He had been a leader , a founder of new enterprises , a pillar of Church and State , a prince of the House of Israel . 
Ten talents had been given him , and he had made them twenty . 
His reward would be proportionate . 
So they came to the summit of the moorland and looked over into the world beyond . 
It was a vast , green plain , softly rounded like a shallow vase , and circled with hills of amethyst . 
When the travelers saw it they were filled with awe and joy . 
They passed over the little streams and among the orchards quickly and silently , as if they feared to speak lest the city should vanish . 
The wall of the city was very low , a child could see over it , for it was made only of precious stones , which are never large . 
A person stood there whose face was bright and grave , and whose robe was like the flower of the lily , not a woven fabric , but a living texture . 
Come in , he said to the company of travelers you are at your journey's end , and your mansions are ready for you . 
John Weightman hesitated , for he was troubled by a doubt . 
Yet he could not rid his mind of the sense that there was a difference between them and him , and it made him afraid to go on . 
But , as he paused and turned , the Keeper of the Gate looked straight and deep into his eyes , and beckoned to him . 
Then he knew that it was not only right but necessary that he should enter . 
They passed from street to street among fair and spacious dwellings , set in amaranthine gardens , and adorned with an infinitely varied beauty of divine simplicity . 
At last there was no one left with the Guide but the two old friends , Doctor McLean and John Weightman . 
They were standing in front of one of the largest and fairest of the houses , whose garden glowed softly with radiant flowers . 
The Guide laid his hand upon the doctor's shoulder . 
This is for you , he said . 
Go in there is no more pain here , no more death , nor sorrow , nor tears for your old enemies are all conquered . 
The good man's face was lighted with a still joy . 
So he went through the garden , and into the music within . 
The Keeper of the Gate turned to John Weightman with level , quiet , searching eyes . 
Then he asked , gravely Where do you wish me to lead you now ? To see my own mansion , answered the man , with half concealed excitement . 
Yes , said the man , more firmly than he had spoken at first , for it gratified him that his name was known . 
Yes , I am John Weightman , Senior Warden of St . 
I wish very much to see my mansion here , if only for a moment . 
I believe that you have one for me . 
Will you take me to it ? The Keeper of the Gate drew a little book from the breast of his robe and turned over the pages . 
Certainly , he said , with a curious look at the man , your name is here and you shall see your mansion if you will follow me . 
They came into a kind of suburb , where there were many small cottages , with plots of flowers , very lowly , but bright and fragrant . 
Finally they reached an open field , bare and lonely looking . 
There were two or three little bushes in it , without flowers , and the grass was sparse and thin . 
In the center of the field was a tiny hut , hardly big enough for a shepherd's shelter . 
There was something pitiful and shamefaced about the hut . 
It shrank and drooped and faded in its barren field , and seemed to cling only by sufferance to the edge of the splendid city . 
This , said the Keeper of the Gate , standing still and speaking with a low , distinct voice this is your mansion , John Weightman . 
An almost intolerable shock of grieved wonder and indignation choked the man for a moment so that he could not say a word . 
Then he turned his face away from the poor little hut and began to remonstrate eagerly with his companion . 
Surely , sir , he stammered , you must be in error about this . 
There is something wrong some other John Weightman a confusion of names the book must be mistaken . 
There is no mistake , said the Keeper of the Gate , very calmly here is your name , the record of your title and your possessions in this place . 
What ! We have used all the material that you sent us , repeated the Keeper of the Gate . 
Now I know that you are mistaken , cried the man , with growing earnestness , for all my life long I have been doing things that must have supplied you with material . 
Petro The Keeper of the Gate lifted his hand . 
Wait , he said we know all these things . 
They were not ill done . 
But they were all marked and used as foundation for the name and mansion of John Weightman in the world . 
Did you not plan them for that ? Yes , answered the man , confused and taken aback , I confess that I thought often of them in that way . 
Perhaps my heart was set upon that too much . 
Were not all these carefully recorded on earth where they would add to your credit ? They were not foolishly done . 
Verily , you have had your reward for them . 
Would you be paid twice ? No , cried the man , with deepening dismay , I dare not claim that . 
I acknowledge that I considered my own interest too much . 
You have said that these things were not foolishly done . 
They accomplished some good in the world . 
Does not that count for something ? Yes , answered he Keeper of the Gate , it counts in the world where you counted it . 
But it does not belong to you here . 
We have saved and used everything that you sent us . 
This is the mansion prepared for you . 
As he spoke , his look grew deeper and more searching , like a flame of fire . 
John Weightman could not endure it . 
It seemed to strip him naked and wither him . 
He sank to the ground under a crushing weight of shame , covering his eyes with his hands and cowering face downward upon the stones . 
Dimly through the trouble of his mind he felt their hardness and coldness . 
And how have I earned it ? he murmured . 
It is never earned it is only given , came the clear , low reply . 
Only that good which is done for the love of doing it . 
Only those plans in which the welfare of others is the master thought . 
Only those labors in which the sacrifice is greater than the reward . 
Only those gifts in which the giver forgets himself . 
A great weakness , an unspeakable despondency and humiliation were upon him . 
But the face of the Keeper of the Gate was infinitely tender as he bent over him . 
Think again , John Weightman . 
Has there been nothing like that in your life ? Nothing , he sighed . 
If there ever were such things , it must have been long ago they were all crowded out I have forgotten them . 
The sense of coldness and hardness under John Weightman's hands grew sharper and more distinct . 
The chimney clock on the mantel had just ended the last stroke of seven as he lifted his head from the table . 
Thin , pale strips of the city morning were falling into the room through the narrow partings of the heavy curtains . 
Then he took a narrow book from the table drawer , wrote a check , and tore it out . 
He went slowly up the stairs , knocked very softly at his son's door , and , hearing no answer , entered without noise . 
Harold was asleep , his bare arm thrown above his head , and his eager face relaxed in peace . 
If you are still thinking of that work with Grenfell , we'll talk it over to day after church . 
I want to know your heart better and if I have made mistakes A slight noise made him turn his head . 
Harold was sitting up in bed with wide open eyes . 
