Bean Many oddball caps , hyphens , punctuation . 
Adjusted the commas in a big way , and some hyphens . 
Left the spellings alone , unless an OCR error . 
Think I got spaces after most of the periods , ! , ? . 
Went over this one twice first time I've done that in over of these books another round wouldn't hurt , if somebody has a hardcopy . 
This Etext prepared by Charles E. Keller keller Ra . 
Edu MATTHEW LEWIS THE MONK A ROMANCE Somnia , terrores magicos , miracula , fagas , Nocturnos lemures , portentaque . 
Dreams , magic terrors , spells of mighty power , Witches , and ghosts who rove at midnight hour . 
PREFACE IMITATION OF HORACE Ep . 
Methinks , Oh ! vain ill judging Book , I see thee cast a wishful look , Where reputations won and lost are In famous row called Paternoster . 
He paused , in expectation of an answer . 
'Do you intend making a stay of any length ? 'Yes , Segnor . 
'I should esteem myself fortunate , were it in my power to contribute to making your abode agreeable . 
I am well known at Madrid , and my Family has some interest at Court . 
If I can be of any service , you cannot honour or oblige me more than by permitting me to be of use to you . 
'Surely , said He to himself , 'She cannot answer that by a monosyllable now She must say something to me . 
Lorenzo was deceived , for the Lady answered only by a bow . 
After a pause of some minutes 'It is certainly from your being a Stranger , said He , 'and as yet unacquainted with our customs , that you continue to wear your veil . 
Permit me to remove it . 
At the same time He advanced his hand towards the Gauze The Lady raised hers to prevent him . 
'I never unveil in public , Segnor . 
'Murcia , indeed ! Holy St . 
Barbara , what does that signify ? You are always putting me in mind of that villainous Province . 
If it is the custom in Madrid , that is all that we ought to mind , and therefore I desire you to take off your veil immediately . 
What a Seraph's head presented itself to his admiration ! Yet it was rather bewitching than beautiful It wasnot so lovely from regularity of features as from sweetness and sensibility of Countenance . 
The several parts of her face considered separately , many of them were far from handsome but when examined together , the whole was adorable . 
Her skin though fair was not entirely without freckles Her eyes were not very large , nor their lashes particularly long . 
Lorenzo gazed upon her with mingled surprise and admiration but the Aunt thought it necessary to apologize for Antonia's mauvaise honte . 
'Tis a young Creature , said She , 'who is totally ignorant of the world . 
Yet She is my own Sister , both by Father and Mother . 
! If I had only taken half the pains to set myself off which She did . 
! But this is neither here nor there . 
As I was saying , Segnor , a young Nobleman fell in love with her , and married her unknown to his Father . 
Away He posted in all haste to Cordova , determined to seize Elvira , and send her away to some place or other , where She would never be heard of more . 
Paul ! How He stormed on finding that She had escaped him , had joined her Husband , and that they had embarked together for the Indies . 
I suppose , that the poor little Wretch met with bitter bad treatment from him , for in a few months after , we received intelligence of his death . 
'Ridiculous' , cried Don Christoval 'Doubtless the Count would have thought himself fortunate , had he been permitted to exchange the one Sister for the other . 
'Oh ! Christ ! Segnor , you are really too polite . 
However , I am heartily glad that the Conde was of a different way of thinking . 
'And what brings her now to Madrid ? enquired Don Lorenzo , whom admiration of the young Antonia compelled to take a lively interest in the talkative old Woman's narration . 
'Alas ! Segnor , her Father in Law being lately dead , the Steward of his Murcian Estates has refused to pay her pension any longer . 
I advised my Sister to send Antonia with her petition But She would not hear of such a thing . 
She is so obstinate ! Well ! She will find herself the worse for not following my counsels the Girl has a good pretty face , and possibly might have done much . 
'Of that , Segnora , I have not the least doubt . 
But permit me to ask you Have you then any aversion to Matrimony ? 'That is an home question . 
I cannot but confess , that if an amiable Cavalier was to present himself . 
'May I enquire , said He , 'the name of the Marquis ? 'The Marquis de las Cisternas . 
'I know him intimately well . 
He is not at present in Madrid , but is expected here daily . 
Antonia raised her blue eyes , and silently thanked him for the offer by a smile of inexpressible sweetness . 
'You will find it in every one's mouth at Madrid . 
He seems to have fascinated the Inhabitants and not having attended his Sermons myself , I am astonished at the Enthusiasm which He has excited . 
The adoration paid him both by Young and Old , by Man and Woman is unexampled . 
The Grandees load him with presents Their Wives refuse to have any other Confessor , and he is known through all the city by the name of the ''Man of Holiness'' . 
'Undoubtedly , Segnor , He is of noble origin 'That point still remains undecided . 
The late Superior of the Capuchins found him while yet an Infant at the Abbey door . 
All attempts to discover who had left him there were vain , and the Child himself could give no account of his Parents . 
He was educated in the Monastery , where He has remained ever since . 
He early showed a strong inclination for study and retirement , and as soon as He was of a proper age , He pronounced his vows . 
In truth the singular austerity of his life gives some countenance to the report . 
He is now thirty years old , every hour of which period has been passed in study , total seclusion from the world , and mortification of the flesh . 
His knowledge is said to be the most profound , his eloquence the most persuasive . 
The common People therefore esteem him to be a Saint . 
'Does that make a Saint ? enquired Antonia 'Bless me ! Then am I one ? 'Holy St . 
Barbara ! exclaimed Leonella 'What a question ! Fye , Child , Fye ! These are not fit subjects for young Women to handle . 
I should like to see you give people to understand , that you know that a Man has no breasts , and no hips , and no . 
Luckily for Antonia's ignorance which her Aunt's lecture would soon have dispelled , an universal murmur through the Church announced the Preacher's arrival . 
Donna Leonella rose from her seat to take a better view of him , and Antonia followed her example . 
He was a Man of noble port and commanding presence . 
His stature was lofty , and his features uncommonly handsome . 
His Nose was aquiline , his eyes large black and sparkling , and his dark brows almost joined together . 
His complexion was of a deep but clear Brown Study and watching had entirely deprived his cheek of colour . 
Tranquillity reigned upon his smooth unwrinkled forehead and Content , expressed upon every feature , seemed to announce the Man equally unacquainted with cares and crimes . 
Such was Ambrosio , Abbot of the Capuchins , and surnamed , 'The Man of Holiness' . 
She waited with impatience till the Sermon should begin and when at length the Friar spoke , the sound of his voice seemed to penetrate into her very soul . 
Though no other of the Spectators felt such violent sensations as did the young Antonia , yet every one listened with interest and emotion . 
They who were insensible to Religion's merits , were still enchanted with Ambrosio's oratory . 
All found their attention irresistibly attracted while He spoke , and the most profound silence reigned through the crowded Aisles . 
Even Lorenzo could not resist the charm He forgot that Antonia was seated near him , and listened to the Preacher with undivided attention . 
In language nervous , clear , and simple , the Monk expatiated on the beauties of Religion . 
He explained some abstruse parts of the sacred writings in a style that carried with it universal conviction . 
The discourse was of considerable length Yet when it concluded , the Audience grieved that it had not lasted longer . 
Though the Monk had ceased to speak , enthusiastic silence still prevailed through the Church At length the charm gradually dissolving , the general admiration was expressed in audible terms . 
As Ambrosio descended from the Pulpit , His Auditors crowded round him , loaded him with blessings , threw themselves at his feet , and kissed the hem of his Garment . 
He passed on slowly with his hands crossed devoutly upon his bosom , to the door opening into the Abbey Chapel , at which his Monks waited to receive him . 
He ascended the Steps , and then turning towards his Followers , addressed to them a few words of gratitude , and exhortation . 
While He spoke , his Rosary , composed of large grains of amber , fell from his hand , and dropped among the surrounding multitude . 
It was seized eagerly , and immediately divided amidst the Spectators . 
Whoever became possessor of a Bead , preserved it as a sacred relique and had it been the Chaplet of thrice blessed St . 
Francis himself , it could not have been disputed with greater vivacity . 
The Abbot , smiling at their eagerness , pronounced his benediction , and quitted the Church , while humility dwelt upon every feature . 
Dwelt She also in his heart ? Antonia's eyes followed him with anxiety . 
As the Door closed after him , it seemed to her as had she lost some one essential to her happiness . 
A tear stole in silence down her cheek . 
'He is separated from the world ! said She to herself 'Perhaps , I shall never see him more ! As she wiped away the tear , Lorenzo observed her action . 
'Oh ! He far exceeds all my expectations , answered She 'Till this moment I had no idea of the powers of eloquence . 
Lorenzo smiled at the strength of her expressions . 
'You are young and just entering into life , said He 'Your heart , new to the world and full of warmth and sensibility , receives its first impressions with eagerness . 
'In the present instance , I allow that it has not . 
Very few would return victorious from a contest so severe . 
'Ah ! surely Ambrosio will be one of those few . 
'Of that I have myself no doubt By all accounts He is an exception to mankind in general , and Envy would seek in vain for a blot upon his character . 
'I entreat her ? replied Leonella 'I promise you that I shall do no such thing . 
'You are right , Segnora , answered Don Christoval 'Too great severity is said to be Ambrosio's only fault . 
Besides , I rather wish you not to make your proposals just at present . 
'My proposals ? I assure you , Segnora . 
'Oh ! Segnor , I believe that your assurances of impatience are all very true But really I must desire a little respite . 
It would not be quite so delicate in me to accept your hand at first sight . 
'Accept my hand ? As I hope to live and breathe . 
But pray , Cavaliers , may I not enquire your names ? 'My Friend's , replied Lorenzo , 'is the Conde d'Ossorio , and mine Lorenzo de Medina . 
Well , Don Lorenzo , I shall acquaint my Sister with your obliging offer , and let you know the result with all expedition . 
Where may I send to you ? 'I am always to be found at the Medina Palace . 
'You may depend upon hearing from me . 
Leonella then hastened to quit the Church The lovely Antonia followed her in silence but when She reached the Porch , She turned involuntarily , and cast back her eyes towards Lorenzo . 
He bowed to her , as bidding her farewell She returned the compliment , and hastily withdrew . 
'From that petition I conclude that the little Antonia has made some impression upon you . 
'I cannot express to you how much I am charmed with her . 
From what I have seen of Raymond de las Cisternas , I am certain that he will readily acknowledge Antonia for his Niece . 
Her birth therefore will be no objection to my offering her my hand . 
I should be a Villain could I think of her on any other terms than marriage and in truth She seems possessed of every quality requisite to make me happy in a Wife . 
Young , lovely , gentle , sensible . 
'Sensible ? Why , She said nothing but ''Yes , '' and ''No'' . 
'She did not say much more , I must confess But then She always said ''Yes , '' or ''No , '' in the right place . 
'Did She so ? Oh ! your most obedient ! That is using a right Lover's argument , and I dare dispute no longer with so profound a Casuist . 
Suppose we adjourn to the Comedy ? 'It is out of my power . 
I shall now pursue my first intention , and probably pass the Evening with my Sister at the Parlour grate . 
'Your Sister in a Convent , say you ? Oh ! very true , I had forgotten . 
Jago ! I wish that I had fifty Sisters in the same predicament . 
'Admirable ! Courage , Don Lorenzo ! Now the Man is all in a blaze . 
Farewell , my Knight of Mount Aetna ! Moderate that inflammable disposition , and remember that whenever it is necessary to make love to yonder Harridan , you may reckon upon my services . 
He said , and darted out of the Cathedral . 
'How wild brained ! said Lorenzo 'With so excellent an heart , what pity that He possesses so little solidity of judgment ! The night was now fast advancing . 
The Lamps were not yet lighted . 
The faint beams of the rising Moon scarcely could pierce through the gothic obscurity of the Church . 
Lorenzo found himself unable to quit the Spot . 
He was still leaning against the seventh column from the Pulpit . 
The calm of the hour and solitude of the place contributed to nourish Lorenzo's disposition to melancholy . 
He threw himself upon a seat which stood near him , and abandoned himself to the delusions of his fancy . 
Sleep insensibly stole over him , and the tranquil solemnity of his mind when awake for a while continued to influence his slumbers . 
He still fancied himself to be in the Church of the Capuchins but it was no longer dark and solitary . 
Half hoping , half fearing , Lorenzo gazed upon the scene before him . 
'And where is the Bridegroom ? said the imaginary Friar . 
Antonia seemed to look round the Church with anxiety . 
Involuntarily the Youth advanced a few steps from his concealment . 
She saw him The blush of pleasure glowed upon her cheek With a graceful motion of her hand She beckoned to him to advance . 
He disobeyed not the command He flew towards her , and threw himself at her feet . 
The Monster clasped her in his arms , and springing with her upon the Altar , tortured her with his odious caresses . 
She endeavoured in vain to escape from his embrace . 
Lorenzo flew to her succour , but ere He had time to reach her , a loud burst of thunder was heard . 
Uttering a loud and terrible cry the Monster plunged into the Gulph , and in his fall attempted to drag Antonia with him . 
Animated by supernatural powers She disengaged herself from his embrace But her white Robe was left in his possession . 
Instantly a wing of brilliant splendour spread itself from either of Antonia's arms . 
His sight failed , and He sank upon the ground . 
When He woke , He found himself extended upon the pavement of the Church It was Illuminated , and the chaunt of Hymns sounded from a distance . 
For a while Lorenzo could not persuade himself that what He had just witnessed had been a dream , so strong an impression had it made upon his fancy . 
Lorenzo rose , and prepared to bend his steps towards his Sister's Convent . 
His mind fully occupied by the singularity of his dream , He already drew near the Porch , when his attention was attracted by perceiving a Shadow moving upon the opposite wall . 
He looked curiously round , and soon descried a Man wrapped up in his Cloak , who seemed carefully examining whether his actions were observed . 
Very few people are exempt from the influence of curiosity . 
The Unknown seemed anxious to conceal his business in the Cathedral , and it was this very circumstance , which made Lorenzo wish to discover what He was about . 
Our Hero was conscious that He had no right to pry into the secrets of this unknown Cavalier . 
'I will go , said Lorenzo . 
And Lorenzo stayed , where He was . 
The shadow thrown by the Column , effectually concealed him from the Stranger , who continued to advance with caution . 
At length He drew a letter from beneath his cloak , and hastily placed it beneath a Colossal Statue of St . 
Then retiring with precipitation , He concealed himself in a part of the Church at a considerable distance from that in which the Image stood . 
'So ! said Lorenzo to himself 'This is only some foolish love affair . 
I believe , I may as well be gone , for I can do no good in it . 
As He descended the steps leading into the Street , a Cavalier rushed against him with such violence , that Both were nearly overturned by the concussion . 
Lorenzo put his hand to his sword . 
Lorenzo followed him into the Cathedral , and they concealed themselves behind the Statue of St . 
Clare and her whole train of Nuns are coming hither . 
Now the Prioress of St . 
Clare , who is a worthy old Soul and a particular Friend of mine , has just assured me of their being here in a few moments . 
There is news for you , you Rogue ! We shall see some of the prettiest faces in Madrid ! 'In truth , Christoval , we shall do no such thing . 
The Nuns are always veiled . 
'No ! No ! I know better . 
On entering a place of worship , they ever take off their veils from respect to the Saint to whom 'tis dedicated . 
But Hark ! They are coming ! Silence , silence ! Observe , and be convinced . 
'Good ! said Lorenzo to himself 'I may possibly discover to whom the vows are addressed of this mysterious Stranger . 
Scarcely had Don Christoval ceased to speak , when the Domina of St . 
Clare appeared , followed by a long procession of Nuns . 
Each upon entering the Church took off her veil . 
The Prioress crossed her hands upon her bosom , and made a profound reverence as She passed the Statue of St . 
Francis , the Patron of this Cathedral . 
The Nuns followed her example , and several moved onwards without having satisfied Lorenzo's curiosity . 
He almost began to despair of seeing the mystery cleared up , when in paying her respects to St . 
Francis , one of the Nuns happened to drop her Rosary . 
As She stooped to pick it up , the light flashed full upon her face . 
At the same moment She dexterously removed the letter from beneath the Image , placed it in her bosom , and hastened to resume her rank in the procession . 
'Ha ! said Christoval in a low voice 'Here we have some little Intrigue , no doubt . 
'Agnes , by heaven ! cried Lorenzo . 
'What , your Sister ? Diavolo ! Then somebody , I suppose , will have to pay for our peeping . 
'And shall pay for it without delay , replied the incensed Brother . 
The pious procession had now entered the Abbey The Door was already closed upon it . 
The Unknown immediately quitted his concealment and hastened to leave the Church Ere He could effect his intention , He descried Medina stationed in his passage . 
The Stranger hastily retreated , and drew his Hat over his eyes . 
'Attempt not to fly me ! exclaimed Lorenzo 'I will know who you are , and what were the contents of that Letter . 
'Of that Letter ? repeated the Unknown . 
'And by what title do you ask the question ? 'By a title of which I am now ashamed But it becomes not you to question me . 
Either reply circumstantially to my demands , or answer me with your Sword . 
'Hold ! Hold ! Medina ! He exclaimed 'Remember the consequences of shedding blood on consecrated ground ! The Stranger immediately dropped his Sword . 
'Medina ? He cried 'Great God , is it possible ! Lorenzo , have you quite forgotten Raymond de las Cisternas ? Lorenzo's astonishment increased with every succeeding moment . 
Raymond advanced towards him , but with a look of suspicion He drew back his hand , which the Other was preparing to take . 
'You here , Marquis ? What is the meaning of all this ? You engaged in a clandestine correspondence with my Sister , whose affections . 
'Have ever been , and still are mine . 
But this is no fit place for an explanation . 
Accompany me to my Hotel , and you shall know every thing . 
Who is that with you ? 'One whom I believe you to have seen before , replied Don Christoval , 'though probably not at Church . 
'The Conde d'Ossorio ? 'Exactly so , Marquis . 
'I have no objection to entrusting you with my secret , for I am sure that I may depend upon your silence . 
'Then your opinion of me is better than my own , and therefore I must beg leave to decline your confidence . 
Do you go your own way , and I shall go mine . 
'Good ! Good ! Farewell , Cavaliers ! said Don Christoval , and instantly departed . 
Follow me , therefore , to my Hotel without delay . 
At this moment the Porter of the Capuchins entered the Cathedral to lock up the doors for the night . 
The two Noblemen instantly withdrew , and hastened with all speed to the Palace de las Cisternas . 
But as to Don Christoval , I protest to you , He is the very Phoenix of politeness . 
As this is the only instance known of a Woman's ever having done so , it was judged worthy to be recorded here . 
The old Lady continued her discourse to Antonia in the same strain , till they gained the Street in which was their Lodging . 
Her dress was composed of shreds of various coloured silks and Linens fantastically arranged , yet not entirely without taste . 
Her head was covered with a kind of Turban , ornamented with vine leaves and wild flowers . 
Suddenly She broke off her dance , whirled herself round thrice with rapidity , and after a moment's pause She sang the following Ballad . 
'Dear Aunt ! said Antonia when the Stranger had finished , 'Is She not mad ? 'Mad ? Not She , Child She is only wicked . 
She is a Gypsy , a sort of Vagabond , whose sole occupation is to run about the country telling lyes , and pilfering from those who come by their money honestly . 
Out upon such Vermin ! If I were King of Spain , every one of them should be burnt alive who was found in my dominions after the next three weeks . 
These words were pronounced so audibly that they reached the Gypsy's ears . 
She immediately pierced through the Crowd and made towards the Ladies . 
She saluted them thrice in the Eastern fashion , and then addressed herself to Antonia . 
'No matter Let me at least hear what She has to say . 
Do , my dear Aunt ! Oblige me , I beseech you ! 'Well , well ! Antonia , since you are so bent upon the thing , . 
Here , good Woman , you shall see the hands of both of us . 
There is money for you , and now let me hear my fortune . 
As She said this , She drew off her glove , and presented her hand The Gypsy looked at it for a moment , and then made this reply . 
THE GYPSY 'Your fortune ? You are now so old , Good Dame , that 'tis already told Yet for your money , in a trice I will repay you in advice . 
Astonished at your childish vanity , Your Friends alltax you with insanity , And grieve to see you use your art To catch some youthful Lover's heart . 
Believe me , Dame , when all is done , Your age will still be fifty one And Men will rarely take an hint Of love , from two grey eyes that squint . 
Take then my counsels Lay aside Your paint and patches , lust and pride , And on the Poor those sums bestow , Which now are spent on useless show . 
Think on your Maker , not a Suitor Think on your past faults , not on future And think Time's Scythe will quickly mow The few red hairs , which deck your brow . 
The audience rang with laughter during the Gypsy's address and 'fifty one , 'squinting eyes , 'red hair , 'paint and patches , c . 
were bandied from mouth to mouth . 
Leonella was almost choaked with passion , and loaded her malicious Adviser with the bitterest reproaches . 
The swarthy Prophetess for some time listened to her with a contemptuous smile at length She made her a short answer , and then turned to Antonia . 
Yet your sufferings to delay , Well remember what I say . 
Having said this , the Gypsy again whirled herself round thrice , and then hastened out of the Street with frantic gesture . 
The Gypsy's predictions had also considerably affected Antonia But the impression soon wore off , and in a few hours She had forgotten the adventure as totally as had it never taken place . 
The monks having attended their Abbot to the door of his Cell , He dismissed them with an air of conscious superiority in which Humility's semblance combated with the reality of pride . 
He was no sooner alone , than He gave free loose to the indulgence of his vanity . 
When He remembered the Enthusiasm which his discourse had excited , his heart swelled with rapture , and his imagination presented him with splendid visions of aggrandizement . 
He looked round him with exultation , and Pride told him loudly that He was superior to the rest of his fellow Creatures . 
I see no one but myself possessed of such resolution . 
I must accustom my eyes to Objects of temptation , and expose myself to the seduction of luxury and desire . 
Should I meet in that world which I am constrained to enter some lovely Female , lovely . 
He paused , and gazed upon it with delight . 
Never was Mortal formed so perfect as this picture . 
But even did such exist , the trial might be too mighty for a common virtue , but Ambrosio's is proof against temptation . 
Temptation , did I say ? To me it would be none . 
What charms me , when ideal and considered as a superior Being , would disgust me , become Woman and tainted with all the failings of Mortality . 
Enter boldly into a world to whose failings you are superior Reflect that you are now exempted from Humanity's defects , and defy all the arts of the Spirits of Darkness . 
They shall know you for what you are ! Here his Reverie was interrupted by three soft knocks at the door of his Cell . 
With difficulty did the Abbot awake from his delirium . 
'Who is there ? said Ambrosio at length . 
'It is only Rosario , replied a gentle voice . 
'Enter ! Enter , my Son ! The Door was immediately opened , and Rosario appeared with a small basket in his hand . 
Rosario was a young Novice belonging to the Monastery , who in three Months intended to make his profession . 
A sort of mystery enveloped this Youth which rendered him at once an object of interest and curiosity . 
He seemed fearful of being recognised , and no one had ever seen his face . 
His head was continually muffled up in his Cowl Yet such of his features as accident discovered , appeared the most beautiful and noble . 
Rosario was the only name by which He was known in the Monastery . 
No one knew from whence He came , and when questioned in the subject He preserved a profound silence . 
A Stranger , whose rich habit and magnificent equipage declared him to be of distinguished rank , had engaged the Monks to receive a Novice , and had deposited the necessary sums . 
The next day He returned with Rosario , and from that time no more had been heard of him . 
The Youth had carefully avoided the company of the Monks He answered their civilities with sweetness , but reserve , and evidently showed that his inclination led him to solitude . 
To this general rule the Superior was the only exception . 
To him He looked up with a respect approaching idolatry He sought his company with the most attentive assiduity , and eagerly seized every means to ingratiate himself in his favour . 
In the Abbot's society his Heart seemed to be at ease , and an air of gaiety pervaded his whole manners and discourse . 
Ambrosio on his side did not feel less attracted towards the Youth With him alone did He lay aside his habitual severity . 
When He spoke to him , He insensibly assumed a tone milder than was usual to him and no voice sounded so sweet to him as did Rosario's . 
'Pardon my intrusion , Father , said Rosario , while He placed his basket upon the Table 'I come to you a Suppliant . 
Hearing that a dear Friend is dangerously ill , I entreat your prayers for his recovery . 
If supplications can prevail upon heaven to spare him , surely yours must be efficacious . 
'Whatever depends upon me , my Son , you know that you may command . 
What is your Friend's name ? 'Vincentio della Ronda . 
I will not forget him in my prayers , and may our thrice blessed St . 
Will you permit my arranging them in your chamber ? 'Your attentions charm me , my Son . 
While Rosario dispersed the contents of his Basket in small Vases placed for that purpose in various parts of the room , the Abbot thus continued the conversation . 
'I saw you not in the Church this evening , Rosario . 
'Yet I was present , Father . 
I am too grateful for your protection to lose an opportunity of witnessing your Triumph . 
'Alas ! Rosario , I have but little cause to triumph The Saint spoke by my mouth To him belongs all the merit . 
It seems then you were contented with my discourse ? 'Contented , say you ? Oh ! you surpassed yourself ! Never did I hear such eloquence . 
save once ! Here the Novice heaved an involuntary sigh . 
'When was that once ? demanded the Abbot . 
'When you preached upon the sudden indisposition of our late Superior . 
'I remember it That is more than two years ago . 
And were you present ? I knew you not at that time , Rosario . 
What are your sufferings ? Reveal them to me , and believe that if 'tis in my power to relieve them . 
'Ah ! 'tis in no one's power but yours . 
Yet I must not let you know them . 
Then pressing the Abbot's hand to his lips , He started from the ground and hastily quitted the apartment . 
, filled with surprise at the singularity of the Youth's behaviour . 
Vespers being over , the Monks retired to their respective Cells . 
The Abbot alone remained in the Chapel to receive the Nuns of St . 
He had not been long seated in the confessional chair before the Prioress made her appearance . 
Each of the Nuns was heard in her turn , while the Others waited with the Domina in the adjoining Vestry . 
She was retiring , unconscious of her loss . 
Ambrosio supposed it to have been written by some one of her Relations , and picked it up intending to restore it to her . 
'Stay , Daughter , said He 'You have let fall . 
At this moment , the paper being already open , his eye involuntarily read the first words . 
'Hold ! said the Friar in a tone of severity 'Daughter , I must read this letter . 
'Then I am lost ! She exclaimed clasping her hands together wildly . 
All colour instantly faded from her face she trembled with agitation , and was obliged to fold her arms round a Pillar of the Chapel to save herself from sinking upon the floor . 
In the meanwhile the Abbot read the following lines . 
'All is ready for your escape , my dearest Agnes . 
At twelve tomorrow night I shall expect to find you at the Garden door I have obtained the Key , and a few hours will suffice to place you in a secure asylum . 
Let no mistaken scruples induce you to reject the certain means of preserving yourself and the innocent Creature whom you nourish in your bosom . 
'This letter must to the Prioress ! said He , and passed her . 
His words sounded like thunder to her ears She awoke from her torpidity only to be sensible of the dangers of her situation . 
She followed him hastily , and detained him by his garment . 
'Stay ! Oh ! stay ! She cried in the accents of despair , while She threw herself at the Friar's feet , and bathed them with her tears . 
Mercy would here be criminal . 
'Hold ! Father , Hold ! Hear me but for one moment ! Tax me not with impurity , nor think that I have erred from the warmth of temperament . 
Accident again united us I could not refuse myself the melancholy pleasure of mingling my tears with his We met nightly in the Gardens of St . 
Clare , and in an unguarded moment I violated my vows of Chastity . 
I shall soon become a Mother Reverend Ambrosio , take compassion on me take compassion on the innocent Being whose existence is attached to mine . 
If you discover my imprudence to the Domina , both of us are lost The punishment which the laws of St . 
Clare assign to Unfortunates like myself is most severe and cruel . 
I will rescue you from perdition in spite of yourself Penance and mortification shall expiate your offence , and Severity force you back to the paths of holiness . 
What Ho ! Mother St . 
Agatha ! 'Father ! By all that is sacred , by all that is most dear to you , I supplicate , I entreat . 
'Release me ! I will not hear you . 
Where is the Domina ? Mother St . 
Agatha , where are you ? The door of the Vestry opened , and the Prioress entered the Chapel , followed by her Nuns . 
'Cruel ! Cruel ! exclaimed Agnes , relinquishing her hold . 
Wild and desperate , She threw herself upon the ground , beating her bosom and rending her veil in all the delirium of despair . 
The Nuns gazed with astonishment upon the scene before them . 
While She perused the letter , the Domina's countenance grew inflamed with passion . 
She was silent , and darted upon the prostrate Nun looks of menace and malignity . 
'Away with her to the Convent ! said She at length to some of her Attendants . 
Two of the oldest Nuns now approaching Agnes , raised her forcibly from the ground , and prepared to conduct her from the Chapel . 
And where is the merit of your boasted virtue ? What temptations have you vanquished ? Coward ! you have fled from it , not opposed seduction . 
She was immediately conveyed from the Chapel , and her Companions followed her . 
Ambrosio had not listened to her reproaches without emotion . 
A secret pang at his heart made him feel , that He had treated this Unfortunate with too great severity . 
He therefore detained the Prioress and ventured to pronounce some words in favour of the Delinquent . 
'The violence of her despair , said He , 'proves , that at least Vice is not become familiar to her . 
Perhaps by treating her with somewhat less rigour than is generally practised , and mitigating in some degree the accustomed penance . 
'Mitigate it , Father ? interrupted the Lady Prioress 'Not I , believe me . 
The laws of our order are strict and severe they have fallen into disuse of late , But the crime of Agnes shows me the necessity of their revival . 
I go to signify my intention to the Convent , and Agnes shall be the first to feel the rigour of those laws , which shall be obeyed to the very letter . 
Thus saying , She hastened out of the Chapel . 
'I have done my duty , said Ambrosio to himself . 
Still did He not feel perfectly satisfied by this reflection . 
To dissipate the unpleasant ideas which this scene had excited in him , upon quitting the Chapel He descended into the Abbey Garden . 
In all Madrid there was no spot more beautiful or better regulated . 
The hour now added to the beauty of the scene . 
Thither the Abbot bent his steps . 
In the bosom of this little Grove stood a rustic Grotto , formed in imitation of an Hermitage . 
The walls were constructed of roots of trees , and the interstices filled up with Moss and Ivy . 
Seats of Turf were placed on either side , and a natural Cascade fell from the Rock above . 
Buried in himself the Monk approached the spot . 
The universal calm had communicated itself to his bosom , and a voluptuous tranquillity spread languor through his soul . 
He reached the Hermitage , and was entering to repose himself , when He stopped on perceiving it to be already occupied . 
Extended upon one of the Banks lay a man in a melancholy posture . 
His head was supported upon his arm , and He seemed lost in mediation . 
The Monk drew nearer , and recognised Rosario He watched him in silence , and entered not the Hermitage . 
After some minutes the Youth raised his eyes , and fixed them mournfully upon the opposite Wall . 
'You here , reverend Father ? cried the Novice . 
At the same time starting from his place in confusion , He drew his Cowl hastily over his face . 
Ambrosio seated himself upon the Bank , and obliged the Youth to place himself by him . 
But this never can be the case . 
This inscription was merely placed here for the ornament of the Grotto , and the sentiments and the Hermit are equally imaginary . 
Man was born for society . 
However little He may be attached to the World , He never can wholly forget it , or bear to be wholly forgotten by it . 
Disgusted at the guilt or absurdity of Mankind , the Misanthrope flies from it He resolves to become an Hermit , and buries himself in the Cavern of some gloomy Rock . 
No longer sustained by the violence of his passions , He feels all the monotony of his way of living , and his heart becomes the prey of Ennui and weariness . 
He looks round , and finds himself alone in the Universe The love of society revives in his bosom , and He pants to return to that world which He has abandoned . 
Nature loses all her charms in his eyes No one is near him to point out her beauties , or share in his admiration of her excellence and variety . 
Propped upon the fragment of some Rock , He gazes upon the tumbling waterfall with a vacant eye , He views without emotion the glory of the setting Sun . 
'I should deceive myself , did I fancy that they could . 
I am convinced of the contrary , and that all my fortitude would not prevent me from yielding to melancholy and disgust . 
And do you , Rosario , do YOU envy an Hermit's life ? Can you be thus blind to the happiness of your situation ? Reflect upon it for a moment . 
Ambrosio remained in his former attitude , reflecting on the Youth's unaccountable behaviour . 
After a few minutes Rosario returned . 
He again seated himself upon the Bank He reclined his cheek upon one hand , and with the other wiped away the tears which trickled from his eyes at intervals . 
The Monk looked upon him with compassion , and forbore to interrupt his meditations . 
Both observed for some time a profound silence . 
The Nightingale had now taken her station upon an Orange Tree fronting the Hermitage , and poured forth a strain the most melancholy and melodious . 
Rosario raised his head , and listened to her with attention . 
Poor Matilda ! She sleeps in the Grave , and her broken heart throbs no more with passion . 
'You had a Sister ? 'You say right , that I HAD Alas ! I have one no longer . 
She sunk beneath the weight of her sorrows in the very spring of life . 
'What were those sorrows ? 'They will not excite YOUR pity YOU know not the power of those irresistible , those fatal sentiments , to which her Heart was a prey . 
Father , She loved unfortunately . 
A passion for One endowed with every virtue , for a Man , Oh ! rather let me say , for a divinity , proved the bane of her existence . 
His noble form , his spotless character , his various talents , his wisdom solid , wonderful , and glorious , might have warmed the bosom of the most insensible . 
My Sister saw him , and dared to love though She never dared to hope . 
One morning She found means to escape from our Father's House Arrayed in humble weeds She offered herself as a Domestic to the Consort of her Beloved , and was accepted . 
She was now continually in his presence She strove to ingratiate herself into his favour She succeeded . 
Her attentions attracted Julian's notice The virtuous are ever grateful , and He distinguished Matilda above the rest of her Companions . 
Her love grew too violent for concealment Yet She wished not for Julian's person , She ambitioned but a share of his heart . 
In an unguarded moment She confessed her affection . 
He forbad her ever again appearing before him . 
His severity broke her heart She returned to her Father's , and in a few Months after was carried to her Grave . 
'Unhappy Girl ! Surely her fate was too severe , and Julian was too cruel . 
'Do you think so , Father ? cried the Novice with vivacity 'Do you think that He was cruel ? 'Doubtless I do , and pity her most sincerely . 
My Sister had a Friend , a real Friend , who pitied the acuteness of her feelings , nor reproached her with her inability to repress them . 
He took Rosario's hand , and pressed it with tenderness . 
Well may I assume that title , for never did Parent watch over a Child more fondly than I have watched over you . 
Then lay aside your fears Speak to me with openness Speak to me , Rosario , and say that you will confide in me . 
If my aid or my pity can alleviate your distress . 
'How shall I reassure you ? Reflect upon the whole of my past conduct , upon the paternal tenderness which I have ever shown you . 
Abhor you , Rosario ? It is no longer in my power . 
To give up your society would be to deprive myself of the greatest pleasure of my life . 
Then reveal to me what afflicts you , and believe me while I solemnly swear . 
'Hold ! interrupted the Novice 'Swear , that whatever be my secret , you will not oblige me to quit the Monastery till my Noviciate shall expire . 
'I promise it faithfully , and as I keep my vows to you , may Christ keep his to Mankind . 
Now then explain this mystery , and rely upon my indulgence . 
Prostrate on the ground lay the feigned Rosario , as if waiting in silence the decision of his Judge . 
Astonishment on the one part , apprehension on the other , for some minutes chained them in the same attitudes , as had they been touched by the Rod of some Magician . 
At length recovering from his confusion , the Monk quitted the Grotto , and sped with precipitation towards the Abbey . 
His action did not escape the Suppliant . 
She sprang from the ground She hastened to follow him , overtook him , threw herself in his passage , and embraced his knees . 
Ambrosio strove in vain to disengage himself from her grasp . 
If Ambrosio's surprise was great at her first avowal , upon hearing her second it exceeded all bounds . 
Amazed , embarrassed , and irresolute He found himself incapable of pronouncing a syllable , and remained in silence gazing upon Matilda This gave her opportunity to continue her explanation as follows . 
'Think not , Ambrosio , that I come to rob your Bride of your affections . 
No , believe me Religion alone deserves you and far is it from Matilda's wish to draw you from the paths of virtue . 
What I feel for you is love , not licentiousness I sigh to be possessor of your heart , not lust for the enjoyment of your person . 
She seated herself Ambrosio , scarcely conscious of what He did , followed her example , and She proceeded in her discourse . 
'I spring from a distinguished family My Father was Chief of the noble House of Villanegas . 
He died while I was still an Infant , and left me sole Heiress of his immense possessions . 
Young and wealthy , I was sought in marriage by the noblest Youths of Madrid But no one succeeded in gaining my affections . 
I had been brought up under the care of an Uncle possessed of the most solid judgment and extensive erudition . 
He took pleasure in communicating to me some portion of his knowledge . 
I rejected every offer with disdain . 
My heart remained without a Master till chance conducted me to the Cathedral of the Capuchins . 
Oh ! surely on that day my Guardian Angel slumbered neglectful of his charge ! Then was it that I first beheld you You supplied the Superior's place , absent from illness . 
You cannot but remember the lively enthusiasm which your discourse created . 
I retired from the Church , glowing with admiration . 
From that moment you became the idol of my heart , the never changing object of my Meditations . 
The reports which were made me of your mode of life , of your knowledge , piety , and self denial riveted the chains imposed on me by your eloquence . 
I was conscious that there was no longer a void in my heart That I had found the Man whom I had sought till then in vain . 
In expectation of hearing you again , every day I visited your Cathedral You remained secluded within the Abbey walls , and I always withdrew , wretched and disappointed . 
The Morning dispelled these pleasing visions I woke , and found myself separated from you by Barriers which appeared insurmountable . 
Time seemed only to increase the strength of my passion I grew melancholy and despondent I fled from society , and my health declined daily . 
At length no longer able to exist in this state of torture , I resolved to assume the disguise in which you see me . 
My artifice was fortunate I was received into the Monastery , and succeeded in gaining your esteem . 
'Now then I should have felt compleatly happy , had not my quiet been disturbed by the fear of detection . 
I resolved , therefore , not to leave the discovery of my sex to chance , to confess the whole to you , and throw myself entirely on your mercy and indulgence . 
Ah ! Ambrosio , can I have been deceived ? Can you be less generous than I thought you ? I will not suspect it . 
While She spoke , a thousand opposing sentiments combated in Ambrosio's bosom . 
By degrees He recovered from his confusion . 
His ideas became less bewildered He was immediately sensible of the extreme impropriety , should Matilda be permitted to remain in the Abbey after this avowal of her sex . 
He assumed an air of severity , and drew away his hand . 
'No , Father , No ! I expect not to inspire you with a love like mine . 
I only wish for the liberty to be near you , to pass some hours of the day in your society to obtain your compassion , your friendship and esteem . 
Surely my request is not unreasonable . 
'But reflect , Lady ! Reflect only for a moment on the impropriety of my harbouring a Woman in the Abbey and that too a Woman , who confesses that She loves me . 
The risque of your being discovered is too great , and I will not expose myself to so dangerous a temptation . 
No , Ambrosio , learn to know me better . 
I love you for your virtues Lose them , and with them you lose my affections . 
I look upon you as a Saint Prove to me that you are no more than Man , and I quit you with disgust . 
I am incapable of seducing you to error and surely your Virtue is established on a basis too firm to be shaken by unwarranted desires . 
After vanquishing the impetuous ebullitions of Youth After passing thirty years in mortification and penance , I might safely permit your stay , nor fear your inspiring me with warmer sentiments than pity . 
But to yourself , remaining in the Abbey can produce none but fatal consequences . 
Believe me , unhappy Woman ! you possess my sincere compassion . 
I feel that Duty obliges my treating you with harshness I must reject your prayer , and remove every shadow of hope which may aid to nourish sentiments so pernicious to your repose . 
Matilda , you must from hence tomorrow . 
'Tomorrow , Ambrosio ? Tomorrow ? Oh ! surely you cannot mean it ! You cannot resolve on driving me to despair ! You cannot have the cruelty . 
'You have heard my decision , and it must be obeyed . 
Uttering a loud shriek , Matilda followed , and detained him . 
As She said this , She suddenly drew a poignard She rent open her garment , and placed the weapon's point against her bosom . 
The Friar's eyes followed with dread the course of the dagger . 
She had torn open her habit , and her bosom was half exposed . 
The weapon's point rested upon her left breast And Oh ! that was such a breast ! The Moonbeams darting full upon it enabled the Monk to observe its dazzling whiteness . 
His eye dwelt with insatiable avidity upon the beauteous Orb . 
He found it impossible for some time to arrange his ideas . 
The scene in which He had been engaged had excited such a variety of sentiments in his bosom , that He was incapable of deciding which was predominant . 
He was irresolute what conduct He ought to hold with the disturber of his repose . 
Besides all this , He considered , that as Matilda was wealthy , her favour might be of essential benefit to the Abbey . 
She has observed the duties of religion not less strictly than myself . 
She has made no attempts to rouze my slumbering passions , nor has She ever conversed with me till this night on the subject of Love . 
by what I have seen . 
As this last idea passed through his imagination , a blush spread itself over his cheek . 
He then returned to his Bed , and resigned himself to slumber . 
He awoke , heated and unrefreshed . 
During his sleep his inflamed imagination had presented him with none but the most voluptuous objects . 
Matilda stood before him in his dreams , and his eyes again dwelt upon her naked breast . 
She repeated her protestations of eternal love , threw her arms round his neck , and loaded him with kisses He returned them He clasped her passionately to his bosom , and . 
He pressed his lips to hers , and found them warm The animated form started from the Canvas , embraced him affectionately , and his senses were unable to support delight so exquisite . 
He started from his Couch , filled with confusion at the remembrance of his dreams . 
Scarcely was He less ashamed , when He reflected on his reasons of the former night which induced him to authorize Matilda's stay . 
'Agnes ! Agnes ! He exclaimed , while reflecting on his embarrassments , 'I already feel thy curse ! He quitted his Cell , determined upon dismissing the feigned Rosario . 
He appeared at Matins But his thoughts were absent , and He paid them but little attention . 
His heart and brain were both of them filled with worldly objects , and He prayed without devotion . 
The service over , He descended into the Garden . 
He bent his steps towards the same spot where , on the preceding night , He had made this embarrassing discovery . 
He doubted not but that Matilda would seek him there He was not deceived . 
She soon entered the Hermitage , and approached the Monk with a timid air . 
Though still unconscious how extensive was its influence , He dreaded the melodious seduction of her voice . 
'Ambrosio ! She cried , in a voice at once expressive of surprise and sorrow . 
But yet it must be so . 
I feel myself incapable of treating you with indifference , and that very conviction obliges me to insist upon your departure . 
Matilda , you must stay here no longer . 
And you too prove false ? Oh God ! And you too can betray me ? 'Matilda ! 'Yes , Father , Yes ! 'Tis with justice that I reproach you . 
As yet my heart is free I shall separate from you with regret , but not with despair . 
Stay here , and a few weeks will sacrifice my happiness on the altar of your charms . 
To you then I fly for defence against myself . 
'Yes I will prove the truth of my affection by submitting to a decree which cuts me to the very heart . 
I will quit the Monastery this very day . 
I have a Relation , Abbess of a Covent in Estramadura To her will I bend my steps , and shut myself from the world for ever . 
Farewell , my Friend ! my Ambrosio ! And yet methinks , I would fain bear with me some token of your regard ! 'What shall I give you ? 'Something . 
One of those flowers will be sufficient . 
'I will hide it in my bosom , and when I am dead , the Nuns shall find it withered upon my heart . 
The Friar was unable to reply With slow steps , and a soul heavy with affliction , He quitted the Hermitage . 
He approached the Bush , and stooped to pluck one of the Roses . 
Suddenly He uttered a piercing cry , started back hastily , and let the flower , which He already held , fall from his hand . 
Matilda heard the shriek , and flew anxiously towards him . 
Here the pain of his wound became so exquisite , that Nature was unable to bear it His senses abandoned him , and He sank inanimate into Matilda's arms . 
Her distress was beyond the power of description . 
She rent her hair , beat her bosom , and not daring to quit Ambrosio , endeavoured by loud cries to summon the Monks to her assistance . 
Alarmed by her shrieks , Several of the Brothers hastened to the spot , and the Superior was conveyed back to the Abbey . 
He was immediately put to bed , and the Monk who officiated as Surgeon to the Fraternity prepared to examine the wound . 
Father Pablos , such was the Surgeon's name , hastened to examine the wounded hand . 
The Monks surrounded the Bed , anxiously waiting for the decision Among these the feigned Rosario appeared not the most insensible to the Friar's calamity . 
He gazed upon the Sufferer with inexpressible anguish and the groans which every moment escaped from his bosom sufficiently betrayed the violence of his affliction . 
Father Pablos probed the wound . 
As He drew out his Lancet , its point was tinged with a greenish hue . 
He shook his head mournfully , and quitted the bedside . 
'Tis as I feared ! said He 'There is no hope . 
'And can no possible remedy be found ? enquired Rosario . 
'Without extracting the poison , He cannot recover and how to extract it is to me still a secret . 
Excessive was the universal grief at hearing this decision . 
Ambrosio's strength worn out by the violence of his exertions , He had by this time fallen into a profound sleep . 
Pablos loosened the bandage which concealed the wound , more from a principle of curiosity than from indulging the hope of discovering any favourable symptoms . 
He communicated this intelligence to his Brethren their delight was only equalled by their surprize . 
Francis to have operated a miracle in his favour . 
This opinion was adopted unanimously They declared it so loudly , and vociferated , 'A miracle ! a miracle ! with such fervour , that they soon interrupted Ambrosio's slumbers . 
The Monks immediately crowded round his Bed , and expressed their satisfaction at his wonderful recovery . 
He was perfectly in his senses , and free from every complaint except feeling weak and languid . 
The other Monks followed his example , and the Abbot and Rosario were left without Observers . 
For some minutes Ambrosio regarded his Attendant with a look of mingled pleasure and apprehension . 
She was seated upon the side of the Bed , her head bending down , and as usual enveloped in the Cowl of her Habit . 
'And you are still here , Matilda ? said the Friar at length . 
Matilda interrupted him by putting her hand before his lips with an air of gaiety . 
'Hush ! Father , Hush ! You must not talk ! 'He who imposed that order , knew not how interesting are the subjects on which I wish to speak . 
'But I know it , and yet issue the same positive command . 
I am appointed your Nurse , and you must not disobey my orders . 
'You are in spirits , Matilda ! 'Well may I be so I have just received a pleasure unexampled through my whole life . 
'What was that pleasure ? 'What I must conceal from all , but most from you . 
'But most from me ? Nay then , I entreat you , Matilda . 
'Hush , Father ! Hush ! You must not talk . 
But as you do not seem inclined to sleep , shall I endeavour to amuse you with my Harp ? 'How ? I knew not that you understood Music . 
'Oh ! I am a sorry Performer ! Yet as silence is prescribed you for eight and forty hours , I may possibly entertain you , when wearied of your own reflections . 
I go to fetch my Harp . 
She soon returned with it . 
'Oh ! call me not Matilda ! Call me Rosario , call me your Friend ! Those are the names , which I love to hear from your lips . 
Now listen ! She then tuned her harp , and afterwards preluded for some moments with such exquisite taste as to prove her a perfect Mistress of the Instrument . 
The air which She played was soft and plaintive Ambrosio , while He listened , felt his uneasiness subside , and a pleasing melancholy spread itself into his bosom . 
Suddenly Matilda changed the strain With an hand bold and rapid She struck a few loud martial chords , and then chaunted the following Ballad to an air at once simple and melodious . 
DURANDARTE AND BELERMA Sad and fearful is the story Of the Roncevalles fight On those fatal plains of glory Perished many a gallant Knight . 
There fell Durandarte Never Verse a nobler Chieftain named He , before his lips for ever Closed in silence thus exclaimed . 
Thus spoke gallant Durandarte Soon his brave heart broke in twain . 
Greatly joyed the Moorish party , That the gallant Knight was slain . 
Bitter weeping Montesinos Took from him his helm and glaive Bitter weeping Montesinos Dug his gallant Cousin's grave . 
To perform his promise made , He Cut the heart from out the breast , That Belerma , wretched Lady ! Might receive the last bequest . 
Sad was Montesinos' heart , He Felt distress his bosom rend . 
But though He indulged the sense of hearing , a single look convinced him that He must not trust to that of sight . 
The Songstress sat at a little distance from his Bed . 
Ambrosio dared to look on her but once That glance sufficed to convince him , how dangerous was the presence of this seducing Object . 
He closed his eyes , but strove in vain to banish her from his thoughts . 
Still , however , his vows and the necessity of keeping to them were present to his memory . 
He struggled with desire , and shuddered when He beheld how deep was the precipice before him . 
Dreading the influence of her charms , Ambrosio remained with his eyes closed , and offered up his prayers to St . 
Francis to assist him in this dangerous trial ! Matilda believed that He was sleeping . 
She rose from her seat , approached the Bed softly , and for some minutes gazed upon him attentively . 
She stopped , and was lost in her reflections . 
Then you will pity me , and feel the whole weight of these sorrows ! As She said this , her voice was choaked by weeping . 
While She bent over Ambrosio , a tear fell upon his cheek . 
'Ah ! I have disturbed him ! cried Matilda , and retreated hastily . 
None sleep so profoundly , as those who are determined not to wake . 
The Friar was in this predicament He still seemed buried in a repose , which every succeeding minute rendered him less capable of enjoying . 
The burning tear had communicated its warmth to his heart . 
Ambrosio ventured to open his eyes , and to cast them upon her fearfully . 
Her face was turned from him . 
She rested her head in a melancholy posture upon her Harp , and gazed on the picture which hung opposite to the Bed . 
Be silent , idle hopes ! Let me not encourage an idea which takes from the brilliance of Ambrosio's virtue . 
'Tis Religion , not Beauty which attracts his admiration 'Tis not to the Woman , but the Divinity that He kneels . 
Involuntarily He raised himself from his pillow . 
'Matilda ! He said in a troubled voice 'Oh ! my Matilda ! She started at the sound , and turned towards him hastily . 
The suddenness of her movement made her Cowl fall back from her head Her features became visible to the Monk's enquiring eye . 
Matilda seemed penetrated with confusion . 
She remained motionless in her place , and supported herself upon her Instrument . 
Her eyes were bent upon the earth , and her fair cheeks overspread with blushes . 
On recovering herself , her first action was to conceal her features . 
She then in an unsteady and troubled voice ventured to address these words to the Friar . 
'Accident has made you Master of a secret , which I never would have revealed but on the Bed of death . 
Yes , Ambrosio In Matilda de Villanegas you see the original of your beloved Madona . 
I caused my Portrait to be drawn by Martin Galuppi , a celebrated Venetian at that time resident in Madrid . 
The resemblance was striking I sent it to the Capuchin Abbey as if for sale , and the Jew from whom you bought it was one of my Emissaries . 
I concealed those features from your sight , which you loved unconsciously . 
I strove not to excite desire by displaying my charms , or to make myself Mistress of your heart through the medium of your senses . 
I succeeded I became your companion and your Friend . 
He was conscious that in the present disposition of his mind , avoiding her society was his only refuge from the power of this enchanting Woman . 
'You declaration has so much astonished me , said He , 'that I am at present incapable of answering you . 
Do not insist upon a reply , Matilda Leave me to myself I have need to be alone . 
'I obey you But before I go , promise not to insist upon my quitting the Abbey immediately . 
'Matilda , reflect upon your situation Reflect upon the consequences of your stay . 
Our separation is indispensable , and we must part . 
'But not to day , Father ! Oh ! in pity not today ! 'You press me too hard , but I cannot resist that tone of supplication . 
Since you insist upon it , I yield to your prayer I consent to your remaining here a sufficient time to prepare in some measure the Brethren for your departure . 
Stay yet two days But on the third , . 
'Remember , that on the third we must part for ever ! She caught his hand eagerly , and pressed it to her lips . 
Anxious to authorise the presence of his dangerous Guest , yet conscious that her stay was infringing the laws of his order , Ambrosio's bosom became the Theatre of a thousand contending passions . 
Anthony had withstood all seductions to lust Then why should not He ? Besides , St . 
'Yes , said He 'The Unfortunate shall stay I have nothing to fear from her presence . 
Even should my own prove too weak to resist the temptation , I am secured from danger by the innocence of Matilda . 
Ambrosio was yet to learn , that to an heart unacquainted with her , Vice is ever most dangerous when lurking behind the Mask of Virtue . 
He found himself so perfectly recovered , that when Father Pablos visited him again at night , He entreated permission to quit his chamber on the day following . 
Matilda appeared no more that evening , except in company with the Monks when they came in a body to enquire after the Abbot's health . 
She seemed fearful of conversing with him in private , and stayed but a few minutes in his room . 
The Friar slept well But the dreams of the former night were repeated , and his sensations of voluptuousness were yet more keen and exquisite . 
Fatigued , harassed , and exhausted by his provoking dreams , He was not disposed to quit his Bed . 
He excused himself from appearing at Matins It was the first morning in his life that He had ever missed them . 
During the whole of the day He had no opportunity of speaking to Matilda without witnesses . 
The Abbot bent his steps towards the Hermitage A glance of his eye invited Matilda to accompany him . 
She obeyed , and followed him thither in silence . 
They entered the Grotto , and seated themselves . 
Both seemed unwilling to begin the conversation , and to labour under the influence of mutual embarrassment . 
At length the Abbot spoke He conversed only on indifferent topics , and Matilda answered him in the same tone . 
She seemed anxious to make him forget that the Person who sat by him was any other than Rosario . 
Neither of them dared , or indeed wished to make an allusion , to the subject which was most at the hearts of both . 
Matilda's efforts to appear gay were evidently forced Her spirits were oppressed by the weight of anxiety , and when She spoke her voice was low and feeble . 
She seemed desirous of finishing a conversation which embarrassed her and complaining that She was unwell , She requested Ambrosio's permission to return to the Abbey . 
She discovered no marks of pleasure at receiving this intelligence , though on the preceding day She had been so anxious to obtain the permission . 
'Alas ! Father , She said , waving her head mournfully 'Your kindness comes too late ! My doom is fixed . 
We must separate for ever . 
Yet believe , that I am grateful for your generosity , for your compassion of an Unfortunate who is but too little deserving of it ! She put her handkerchief to her eyes . 
Her Cowl was only half drawn over her face . 
Ambrosio observed that She was pale , and her eyes sunk and heavy . 
'Good God ! He cried 'You are very ill , Matilda ! I shall send Father Pablos to you instantly . 
I am ill , 'tis true But He cannot cure my malady . 
Farewell , Father ! Remember me in your prayers tomorrow , while I shall remember you in heaven ! She entered her cell , and closed the door . 
The Abbot dispatched to her the Physician without losing a moment , and waited his report impatiently . 
But Father Pablos soon returned , and declared that his errand had been fruitless . 
Rosario refused to admit him , and had positively rejected his offers of assistance . 
He did not find himself inclined to sleep . 
He opened his casement , and gazed upon the moonbeams as they played upon the small stream whose waters bathed the walls of the Monastery . 
The coolness of the night breeze and tranquillity of the hour inspired the Friar's mind with sadness . 
He thought upon Matilda's beauty and affection Upon the pleasures which He might have shared with her , had He not been restrained by monastic fetters . 
He shuddered at the void which her absence would leave in his bosom . 
He looked with disgust on the monotony of a Convent , and breathed a sigh towards that world from which He was for ever separated . 
Such were the reflections which a loud knocking at his door interrupted . 
The Bell of the Church had already struck Two . 
The Abbot hastened to enquire the cause of this disturbance . 
He opened the door of his Cell , and a Lay Brother entered , whose looks declared his hurry and confusion . 
'Hasten , reverend Father ! said He 'Hasten to the young Rosario . 
He earnestly requests to see you He lies at the point of death . 
He says that He suspects the Youth to be poisoned . 
Several Monks were already in the chamber . 
Father Pablos was one of them , and held a medicine in his hand which He was endeavouring to persuade Rosario to swallow . 
The Others were employed in admiring the Patient's divine countenance , which They now saw for the first time . 
She looked lovelier than ever . 
She was no longer pale or languid A bright glow had spread itself over her cheeks her eyes sparkled with a serene delight , and her countenance was expressive of confidence and resignation . 
The Monks retired immediately , and Matilda and the Abbot remained together . 
Yes , Father I am poisoned But know that the poison once circulated in your veins . 
'Matilda ! 'What I tell you I resolved never to discover to you but on the bed of death That moment is now arrived . 
You cannot have forgotten the day already , when your life was endangered by the bite of a Cientipedoro . 
The Physician gave you over , declaring himself ignorant how to extract the venom I knew but of one means , and hesitated not a moment to employ it . 
I was left alone with you You slept I loosened the bandage from your hand I kissed the wound , and drew out the poison with my lips . 
The effect has been more sudden than I expected . 
I feel death at my heart Yet an hour , and I shall be in a better world . 
'Almighty God ! exclaimed the Abbot , and sank almost lifeless upon the Bed . 
After a few minutes He again raised himself up suddenly , and gazed upon Matilda with all the wildness of despair . 
It is dangerous ! It is dreadful ! Life would be purchased at too dear a rate , . 
unless it were permitted me to live for you . 
'Remember our late conversations I now consent to every thing Remember in what lively colours you described the union of souls Be it ours to realize those ideas . 
Let us forget the distinctions of sex , despise the world's prejudices , and only consider each other as Brother and Friend . 
Live then , Matilda ! Oh ! live for me ! 'Ambrosio , it must not be . 
When I thought thus , I deceived both you and myself . 
Either I must die at present , or expire by the lingering torments of unsatisfied desire . 
Oh ! since we last conversed together , a dreadful veil has been rent from before my eyes . 
I love you no longer with the devotion which is paid to a Saint I prize you no more for the virtues of your soul I lust for the enjoyment of your person . 
The Woman reigns in my bosom , and I am become a prey to the wildest of passions . 
Away with friendship ! 'tis a cold unfeeling word . 
My bosom burns with love , with unutterable love , and love must be its return . 
Tremble then , Ambrosio , tremble to succeed in your prayers . 
If I live , your truth , your reputation , your reward of a life past in sufferings , all that you value is irretrievably lost . 
I shall no longer be able to combat my passions , shall seize every opportunity to excite your desires , and labour to effect your dishonour and my own . 
'Amazement ! Matilda ! Can it be you who speak to me ? He made a movement as if to quit his seat . 
She uttered a loud shriek , and raising herself half out of the Bed , threw her arms round the Friar to detain him . 
'Wretched Woman , what can I say to you ! I cannot . 
But live , Matilda ! Oh ! live ! 'You do not reflect on what you ask . 
'Feel this heart , Father ! It is yet the seat of honour , truth , and chastity If it beats tomorrow , it must fall a prey to the blackest crimes . 
'Folded in your arms , I shall sink to sleep Your hand shall close my eyes for ever , and your lips receive my dying breath . 
The faint beams of a solitary Lamp darted upon Matilda's figure , and shed through the chamber a dim mysterious light . 
No prying eye , or curious ear was near the Lovers Nothing was heard but Matilda's melodious accents . 
Ambrosio was in the full vigour of Manhood . 
He sat upon her Bed His hand rested upon her bosom Her head reclined voluptuously upon his breast . 
He clasped her rapturously in his arms He forgot his vows , his sanctity , and his fame He remembered nothing but the pleasure and opportunity . 
'Ambrosio ! Oh ! my Ambrosio ! sighed Matilda . 
'Thine , ever thine ! murmured the Friar , and sank upon her bosom . 
CHAPTER III These are the Villains Whom all the Travellers do fear so much . 
Some of them are Gentlemen Such as the fury of ungoverned Youth Thrust from the company of awful Men . 
The Marquis and Lorenzo proceeded to the Hotel in silence . 
The Former employed himself in calling every circumstance to his mind , which related might give Lorenzo's the most favourable idea of his connexion with Agnes . 
He concluded from these reflections , that profound silence would be the wisest plan , and waited with impatience for Don Raymond's explanation . 
They arrived at the Hotel de las Cisternas . 
The Marquis immediately conducted him to his apartment , and began to express his satisfaction at finding him at Madrid . 
'Excuse me , my Lord , said He with a distant air , 'if I reply somewhat coldly to your expressions of regard . 
A Sister's honour is involved in this affair Till that is established , and the purport of your correspondence with Agnes cleared up , I cannot consider you as my Friend . 
I am anxious to hear the meaning of your conduct , and hope that you will not delay the promised explanation . 
'First give me your word , that you will listen with patience and indulgence . 
'I love my Sister too well to judge her harshly and till this moment I possessed no Friend so dear to me as yourself . 
'Lorenzo , you transport me ! No greater pleasure can be given me , than an opportunity of serving the Brother of Agnes . 
'Convince me that I can accept your favours without dishonour , and there is no Man in the world to whom I am more willing to be obliged . 
'Probably , you have already heard your Sister mention the name of Alphonso d'Alvarada ? 'Never . 
Though I feel for Agnes an affection truly fraternal , circumstances have prevented us from being much together . 
While yet a Child She was consigned to the care of her Aunt , who had married a German Nobleman . 
At his Castle She remained till two years since , when She returned to Spain , determined upon secluding herself from the world . 
'Good God ! Lorenzo , you knew of her intention , and yet strove not to make her change it ? 'Marquis , you wrong me . 
The intelligence , which I received at Naples , shocked me extremely , and I hastened my return to Madrid for the express purpose of preventing the sacrifice . 
The moment that I arrived , I flew to the Convent of St . 
Clare , in which Agnes had chosen to perform her Noviciate . 
I requested to see my Sister . 
I supplicated the Nuns I insisted upon seeing Agnes , and hesitated not to avow my suspicions that her being kept from me was against her own inclinations . 
To free herself from the imputation of violence , the Prioress brought me a few lines written in my Sister's well known hand , repeating the message already delivered . 
All future attempts to obtain a moment's conversation with her were as fruitless as the first . 
She was inflexible , and I was not permitted to see her till the day preceding that on which She entered the Cloister never to quit it more . 
This interview took place in the presence of our principal Relations . 
It was for the first time since her childhood that I saw her , and the scene was most affecting . 
She threw herself upon my bosom , kissed me , and wept bitterly . 
By every possible argument , by tears , by prayers , by kneeling , I strove to make her abandon her intention . 
At this last question She turned pale , and her tears flowed yet faster . 
She persevered in her design , and made her profession . 
I visited her frequently at the Grate , and every moment that I passed with her , made me feel more affliction at her loss . 
I was shortly after obliged to quit Madrid I returned but yesterday evening , and since then have not had time to call at St . 
However , before the plan could be executed , the Cavalier discovered that the estates which He believed Agnes to possess in Hispaniola , in reality belonged to me . 
She added , that as this adventurer had given himself out to be a Friend of mine , She wished to know whether I had any knowledge of him . 
I replied in the negative . 
'In this I easily recognize Donna Rodolpha's perfidious character . 
Every word of this account is stamped with marks of her malice , of her falsehood , of her talents for misrepresenting those whom She wishes to injure . 
Forgive me , Medina , for speaking so freely of your Relation . 
The mischief which She has done me authorises my resentment , and when you have heard my story , you will be convinced that my expressions have not been too severe . 
He then began his narrative in the following manner . 
On leaving Salamanca , at which University as I have since heard , you remained a year after I quitted it , I immediately set out upon my Travels . 
My Father supplied me liberally with money But He insisted upon my concealing my rank , and presenting myself as no more than a private Gentleman . 
'Believe me , said He , 'my dear Raymond , you will hereafter feel the benefits of this temporary degradation . 
At present , much will depend upon yourself You have excellent recommendations , but it must be your own business to make them of use to you . 
Consequently , when you find yourself really liked , you may safely ascribe it to your good qualities , not your rank , and the distinction shown you will be infinitely more flattering . 
Do not confine yourself to the Illustrious of those Countries through which you pass . 
Forgive me , Lorenzo , if I seem tedious in my narration . 
I followed the Duke's advice I was soon convinced of its wisdom . 
I quitted Spain , calling myself by the assumed title of Don Alphonso d'Alvarada , and attended by a single Domestic of approved fidelity . 
Paris was my first station . 
For some time I was enchanted with it , as indeed must be every Man who is young , rich , and fond of pleasure . 
Yet among all its gaieties , I felt that something was wanting to my heart . 
I grew sick of dissipation I discovered , that the People among whom I lived , and whose exterior was so polished and seducing , were at bottom frivolous , unfeeling and insincere . 
I turned from the Inhabitants of Paris with disgust , and quitted that Theatre of Luxury without heaving one sigh of regret . 
I now bent my course towards Germany , intending to visit most of the principal courts Prior to this expedition , I meant to make some little stay at Strasbourg . 
On quitting my Chaise at Luneville to take some refreshment , I observed a splendid Equipage , attended by four Domestics in rich liveries , waiting at the door of the Silver Lion . 
Soon after as I looked out of the window , I saw a Lady of noble presence , followed by two female Attendants , step into the Carriage , which drove off immediately . 
I enquired of the Host , who the Lady was , that had just departed . 
'A German Baroness , Monsieur , of great rank and fortune . 
I resumed my journey , intending to reach Strasbourg that night . 
My hopes , however were frustrated by the breaking down of my Chaise . 
The accident happened in the middle of a thick Forest , and I was not a little embarrassed as to the means of proceeding . 
It was the depth of winter The night was already closing round us and Strasbourg , which was the nearest Town , was still distant from us several leagues . 
However , seeing no other resource , I was obliged to make up my mind to it . 
Accordingly I communicated my design to the Postillion , telling him that I would send People to assist him as soon as I reached Strasbourg . 
Luckily , as I then thought , an opportunity presented itself of passing the night more agreeably than I expected . 
On mentioning my design of proceeding by myself to Strasbourg , the Postillion shook his head in disapprobation . 
'It is a long way , said He 'You will find it a difficult matter to arrive there without a Guide . 
Besides , Monsieur seems unaccustomed to the season's severity , and 'tis possible that unable to sustain the excessive cold . 
'Passing the night in the Forest ? He replied 'Oh ! by St . 
Denis ! We are not in quite so bad a plight as that comes to yet . 
If I am not mistaken , we are scarcely five minutes walk from the Cottage of my old Friend , Baptiste . 
He is a Wood cutter , and a very honest Fellow . 
I doubt not but He will shelter you for the night with pleasure . 
In the meantime I can take the saddle Horse , ride to Strasbourg , and be back with proper people to mend your Carriage by break of day . 
'Absurd ! Come , come ! Say no more , but conduct us without delay to the Wood man's Cottage . 
He obeyed , and we moved onwards The Horses contrived with some difficulty to drag the shattered vehicle after us . 
My Servant was become almost speechless , and I began to feel the effects of the cold myself , before we reached the wished for Cottage . 
It was a small but neat Building As we drew near it , I rejoiced at observing through the window the blaze of a comfortable fire . 
Our Conductor knocked at the door It was some time before any one answered The People within seemed in doubt whether we should be admitted . 
Soon after the bolts were drawn back . 
The door was unclosed , and a Man presented himself to us with a Lamp in his hand . 
He gave the Guide an hearty reception , and then addressed himself to me . 
Thus saying , He ushered me into the room , where I had observed the fire I was immediately placed in an Easy Chair , which stood close to the Hearth . 
A Female , whom I supposed to be the Wife of my Host , rose from her seat upon my entrance , and received me with a slight and distant reverence . 
She made no answer to my compliment , but immediately re seating herself , continued the work on which She had been employed . 
Her Husband's manners were as friendly as hers were harsh and repulsive . 
'I wish , I could lodge you more conveniently , Monsieur , said He 'But we cannot boast of much spare room in this hovel . 
However , a chamber for yourself , and another for your Servant , I think , we can make shift to supply . 
You must content yourself with sorry fare But to what we have , believe me , you are heartily welcome . 
The Wife threw her work hastily upon the Table , and proceeded to execute his commands with every mark of unwillingness . 
Her countenance had displeased me on the first moment of my examining it . 
In fine , I conceived at first sight equal disgust for her , and prepossession in favour of her Husband , whose appearance was calculated to inspire esteem and confidence . 
However , in spite of her unwillingness , Marguerite began to prepare the supper , while the Wood man conversed gaily on different subjects . 
The Postillion , who had been furnished with a bottle of spirits , was now ready to set out for Strasbourg , and enquired , whether I had any further commands . 
To this I readily assented , telling the Postillion that my reaching Strasbourg the next day an hour or two later would be perfectly immaterial . 
He thanked me , and then leaving the Cottage with Stephano , put up his Horses in the Wood man's Stable . 
Baptiste followed them to the door , and looked out with anxiety . 
The eldest is three and twenty , the second a year younger Their Equals for sense , courage , and activity , are not to be found within fifty miles of Strasbourg . 
Would They were back again ! I begin to feel uneasy about them . 
Marguerite was at this time employed in laying the cloth . 
'And are you equally anxious for the return of your Sons ? said I to her . 
'Not I ! She replied peevishly 'They are no children of mine . 
'Come ! Come , Marguerite ! said the Husband 'Do not be out of humour with the Gentleman for asking a simple question . 
A little thing puts her out , and She is somewhat displeased at your not thinking her to be under thirty . 
That is the truth , is it not , Marguerite ? You know , Monsieur , that Age is always a ticklish subject with a Woman . 
Come ! come ! Marguerite , clear up a little . 
If you have not Sons as old , you will some twenty years hence , and I hope , that we shall live to see them just such Lads as Jacques and Robert . 
Marguerite clasped her hands together passionately . 
'God forbid ! said She 'God forbid ! If I thought it , I would strangle them with my own hands ! She quitted the room hastily , and went up stairs . 
I could not help expressing to the Wood man how much I pitied him for being chained for life to a Partner of such ill humour . 
'Ah ! Lord ! Monsieur , Every one has his share of grievances , and Marguerite has fallen to mine . 
Besides , after all She is only cross , and not malicious . 
The worst is , that her affection for two children by a former Husband makes her play the Step mother with my two Sons . 
She cannot bear the sight of them , and by her good will they would never set a foot within my door . 
But on this point I always stand firm , and never will consent to abandon the poor Lads to the world's mercy , as She has often solicited me to do . 
In every thing else I let her have her own way and truly She manages a family rarely , that I must say for her . 
We were conversing in this manner , when our discourse was interrupted by a loud halloo , which rang through the Forest . 
'My Sons , I hope ! exclaimed the Wood man , and ran to open the door . 
The halloo was repeated We now distinguished the trampling of Horses , and soon after a Carriage , attended by several Cavaliers stopped at the Cottage door . 
One of the Horsemen enquired how far they were still from Strasbourg . 
The Persons in the Coach were now informed of the distance of Strasbourg , and also that the Horses were so fatigued as to be incapable of proceeding further . 
He seemed much embarrassed , and replied in the negative Adding that a Spanish Gentleman and his Servant were already in possession of the only spare apartments in his House . 
On hearing this , the gallantry of my nation would not permit me to retain those accommodations , of which a Female was in want . 
I immediately recognized her for the same person whom I had seen at the Inn at Luneville . 
I took an opportunity of asking one of her Attendants , what was her name ? 'The Baroness Lindenberg , was the answer . 
I could not but remark how different a reception our Host had given these newcomers and myself . 
His reluctance to admit them was visibly expressed on his countenance , and He prevailed on himself with difficulty to tell the Lady that She was welcome . 
I conducted her into the House , and placed her in the armed chair , which I had just quitted . 
She thanked me very graciously and made a thousand apologies for putting me to an inconvenience . 
Suddenly the Wood man's countenance cleared up . 
There they shall have a blazing fire , and as good a supper as we can make shift to give them . 
After several expressions of gratitude on the Lady's part , and opposition on mine to Marguerite's giving up her bed , this arrangement was agreed to . 
'Hell and Furies ! exclaimed the first starting back 'Robert , the House is filled with Strangers ! 'Ha ! There are my Sons ! cried our Host . 
'Why , Jacques ! Robert ! whither are you running , Boys ? There is room enough still for you . 
Upon this assurance the Youths returned . 
The two new comers were tall , stout , well made young Men , hard featured , and very much sun burnt . 
They paid their compliments to us in few words , and acknowledged Claude , who now entered the room , as an old acquaintance . 
'You travel well armed , said I. 'True , Monsieur replied Robert . 
'We left Strasbourg late this Evening , and 'tis necessary to take precautions at passing through this Forest after dark . 
It does not bear a good repute , I promise you . 
Her Stepsons drew her to the other end of the room , and whispered her for some minutes . 
By the looks which they cast towards us at intervals , I conjectured them to be enquiring our business in the Cottage . 
In the meanwhile the Baroness expressed her apprehensions , that her Husband would be suffering much anxiety upon her account . 
She had intended to send on one of her Servants to inform the Baron of her delay But the account which the young Men gave of the Forest rendered this plan impracticable . 
Claude relieved her from her embarrassment . 
He informed her that He was under the necessity of reaching Strasbourg that night , and that would She trust him with a letter , She might depend upon its being safely delivered . 
Besides , I have nothing to lose except my life , and that will not be worth the Robbers taking . 
I thought his arguments bad , and advised his waiting till the Morning But as the Baroness did not second me , I was obliged to give up the point . 
Accordingly , it was resolved that He should set out without delay . 
The Baroness wrote her letter to her Husband , and I sent a few lines to my Banker , apprising him that I should not be at Strasbourg till the next day . 
Claude took our letters , and left the Cottage . 
The Lady declared herself much fatigued by her journey Besides having come from some distance , the Drivers had contrived to lose their way in the Forest . 
She now addressed herself to Marguerite , desiring to be shown to her chamber , and permitted to take half an hour's repose . 
One of the Waiting women was immediately summoned She appeared with a light , and the Baroness followed her up stairs . 
The cloth was spreading in the chamber where I was , and Marguerite soon gave me to understand that I was in her way . 
'Which chamber is it , Mother ? said Robert . 
'You are out of humour , Mother , but that is no novelty . 
Have the goodness to follow me , Monsieur . 
He opened the door , and advanced towards a narrow staircase . 
Jacques was employed in laying the cloth , and his back was turned towards me . 
Marguerite seized the moment , when we were unobserved . 
She caught my hand , and pressed it strongly . 
'Look at the Sheets ! said She as She passed me , and immediately resumed her former occupation . 
Startled by the abruptness of her action , I remained as if petrified . 
Robert's voice , desiring me to follow him , recalled me to myself . 
My conductor ushered me into a chamber , where an excellent wood fire was blazing upon the hearth . 
He placed the light upon the Table , enquired whether I had any further commands , and on my replying in the negative , He left me to myself . 
You may be certain that the moment when I found myself alone was that on which I complied with Marguerite's injunction . 
I took the candle , hastily approached the Bed , and turned down the Coverture . 
What was my astonishment , my horror , at finding the sheets crimsoned with blood ! At that moment a thousand confused ideas passed before my imagination . 
I ruminated on the most probable means of ascertaining the truth of my conjectures . 
Suddenly I was aware of Someone below pacing hastily backwards and forwards . 
Every thing now appeared to me an object of suspicion . 
With precaution I drew near the window , which , as the room had been long shut up , was left open in spite of the cold . 
I ventured to look out . 
The beams of the Moon permitted me to distinguish a Man , whom I had no difficulty to recognize for my Host . 
I now heard the steps of one approaching . 
Expecting their discourse to throw some light upon my situation , I hastened to put myself in a condition to hear it with safety . 
The objects of my curiosity had stationed themselves directly under it . 
I suppose that during my momentary absence the Wood man had been blaming Claude for tardiness , since when I returned to the window , the latter was endeavouring to excuse his fault . 
'However , added He , 'my diligence at present shall make up for my past delay . 
'On that condition , answered Baptiste , 'I shall readily forgive you . 
But in truth as you share equally with us in our prizes , your own interest will make you use all possible diligence . 
Oh ! how I cursed Stephano's imprudent vanity ! 'And I have been told , continued the Postillion , 'that this Baroness carries about her a casket of jewels of immense value . 
'May be so , but I had rather She had stayed away . 
The Spaniard was a secure prey . 
The Boys and myself could easily have mastered him and his Servant , and then the two thousand Pistoles would have been shared between us four . 
Now we must let in the Band for a share , and perhaps the whole Covey may escape us . 
Should our Friends have betaken themselves to their different posts before you reach the Cavern , all will be lost . 
The Lady's Attendants are too numerous for us to overpower them Unless our Associates arrive in time , we must needs let these Travellers set out tomorrow without damage or hurt . 
'Tis plaguy unlucky that my Comrades who drove the Coach should be those unacquainted with our Confederacy ! But never fear , Friend Baptiste . 
An hour will bring me to the Cavern It is now but ten o'clock , and by twelve you may expect the arrival of the Band . 
'Oh ! I am secure of her silence She is too much afraid of me , and fond of her children , to dare to betray my secret . 
Besides , Jacques and Robert keep a strict eye over her , and She is not permitted to set a foot out of the Cottage . 
The Servants are safely lodged in the Barn I shall endeavour to keep all quiet till the arrival of our Friends . 
'And suppose either of the Travellers should discover your design ? 'Then we must poignard those in our power , and take our chance about mastering the rest . 
'Tell Robert that I have taken his Horse My own has broken his bridle , and escaped into the Wood . 
What is the watch word ? 'The reward of Courage . 
I hasten to the Cavern . 
'And I to rejoin my Guests , lest my absence should create suspicion . 
Farewell , and be diligent . 
These worthy Associates now separated The One bent his course towards the Stable , while the Other returned to the House . 
You may judge , what must have been my feelings during this conversation , of which I lost not a single syllable . 
I dared not trust myself to my reflections , nor did any means present itself to escape the dangers which threatened me . 
Resistance , I knew to be vain I was unarmed , and a single Man against Three However , I resolved at least to sell my life as dearly as I could . 
Dreading lest Baptiste should perceive my absence , and suspect me to have overheard the message with which Claude was dispatched , I hastily relighted my candle and quitted the chamber . 
On descending , I found the Table spread for six Persons . 
The Baroness sat by the fireside Marguerite was employed in dressing a sallad , and her Step sons were whispering together at the further end of the room . 
Baptiste having the round of the Garden to make , ere He could reach the Cottage door , was not yet arrived . 
I seated myself quietly opposite to the Baroness . 
A glance upon Marguerite told her that her hint had not been thrown away upon me . 
How different did She now appear to me ! What before seemed gloom and sullenness , I now found to be disgust at her Associates , and compassion for my danger . 
In spite of all my endeavours to conceal it , my agitation was but too visibly expressed upon my countenance . 
I was pale , and both my words and actions were disordered and embarrassed . 
The young Men observed this , and enquired the cause . 
I attributed it to excess of fatigue , and the violent effect produced on me by the severity of the season . 
Whether they believed me or not , I will not pretend to say They at least ceased to embarrass me with their questions . 
I strove to divert my attention from the perils which surrounded me , by conversing on different subjects with the Baroness . 
As She spoke thus , the Youths exchanged a malicious smile , which declared that She would be fortunate if She ever reached that Castle herself . 
This action did not escape me But I concealed the emotion which it excited in my breast . 
The fact was , that while my conversation turned upon one subject , my thoughts were entirely occupied by another . 
I meditated upon the means of quitting the Cottage , finding my way to the Barn , and giving the Domestics information of our Host's designs . 
I was soon convinced , how impracticable was the attempt . 
Jacques and Robert watched my every movement with an attentive eye , and I was obliged to abandon the idea . 
All my hopes now rested upon Claude's not finding the Banditti In that case , according to what I had overheard , we should be permitted to depart unhurt . 
I shuddered involuntarily as Baptiste entered the room . 
He made many apologies for his long absence , but 'He had been detained by affairs impossible to be delayed . 
He then entreated permission for his family to sup at the same table with us , without which , respect would not authorize his taking such a liberty . 
The permission which our Host demanded , was easily obtained . 
We seated ourselves at the Table . 
The Baroness and myself occupied one side The Sons were opposite to us with their backs to the door . 
Baptiste took his seat by the Baroness at the upper end , and the place next to him was left for his Wife . 
She soon entered the room , and placed before us a plain but comfortable Peasant's repast . 
She laughed , and conversed with the family with infinite gaiety . 
I strove but in vain to follow her example . 
My spirits were evidently forced , and the constraint which I put upon myself escaped not Baptiste's observation . 
'Come , come , Monsieur , cheer up ! said He 'You seem not quite recovered from your fatigue . 
He then gave his Wife a Key , and instructed her where to find the wine of which He spoke . 
She seemed by no means pleased with the commission She took the Key with an embarrassed air , and hesitated to quit the Table . 
'Did you hear me ? said Baptiste in an angry tone . 
Marguerite darted upon him a look of mingled anger and fear , and left the chamber . 
His eyes followed her suspiciously , till She had closed the door . 
She soon returned with a bottle sealed with yellow wax . 
She placed it upon the table , and gave the Key back to her Husband . 
I suspected that this liquor was not presented to us without design , and I watched Marguerite's movements with inquietude . 
She was employed in rinsing some small horn Goblets . 
In the mean while our Host had drawn the Cork , and filling two of the Goblets , offered them to the Lady and myself . 
She at first made some objections , but the instances of Baptiste were so urgent , that She was obliged to comply . 
Fearing to excite suspicion , I hesitated not to take the Goblet presented to me . 
By its smell and colour I guessed it to be Champagne But some grains of powder floating upon the top convinced me that it was not unadulterated . 
I pretended to spit out the wine with disgust , and took an opportunity unperceived of emptying the liquor into the Vase . 
The Banditti seemed alarmed at my action . 
Jacques half rose from his chair , put his hand into his bosom , and I discovered the haft of a dagger . 
I returned to my seat with tranquillity , and affected not to have observed their confusion . 
'You have not suited my taste , honest Friend , said I , addressing myself to Baptiste . 
'I never can drink Champagne without its producing a violent illness . 
I swallowed a few mouthfuls ere I was aware of its quality , and fear that I shall suffer for my imprudence . 
Baptiste and Jacques exchanged looks of distrust . 
'Perhaps , said Robert , 'the smell may be disagreeable to you . 
He quitted his chair , and removed the Goblet . 
I observed , that He examined , whether it was nearly empty . 
'He must have drank sufficient , said He to his Brother in a low voice , while He reseated himself . 
Marguerite looked apprehensive , that I had tasted the liquor A glance from my eye reassured her . 
I waited with anxiety for the effects which the Beverage would produce upon the Lady . 
I doubted not but the grains which I had observed were poisonous , and lamented that it had been impossible for me to warn her of the danger . 
But a few minutes had elapsed before I perceived her eyes grow heavy Her head sank upon her shoulder , and She fell into a deep sleep . 
I affected not to attend to this circumstance , and continued my conversation with Baptiste , with all the outward gaiety in my power to assume . 
But He no longer answered me without constraint . 
He eyed me with distrust and astonishment , and I saw that the Banditti were frequently whispering among themselves . 
My situation became every moment more painful I sustained the character of confidence with a worse grace than ever . 
Equally afraid of the arrival of their Accomplices and of their suspecting my knowledge of their designs , I knew not how to dissipate the distrust which the Banditti evidently entertained for me . 
In this new dilemma the friendly Marguerite again assisted me . 
She passed behind the Chairs of her Stepsons , stopped for a moment opposite to me , closed her eyes , and reclined her head upon her shoulder . 
This hint immediately dispelled my incertitude . 
It told me , that I ought to imitate the Baroness , and pretend that the liquor had taken its full effect upon me . 
I did so , and in a few minutes seemed perfectly overcome with slumber . 
'And why not dispatch him at all events ? enquired the ferocious Jacques . 
'Why leave him the possibility of betraying our secret ? Marguerite , give me one of my Pistols A single touch of the trigger will finish him at once . 
Ah ! Boys , Boys , had you arrived but five minutes sooner , the Spaniard would have been done for , and two thousand Pistoles our own . 
But you are always out of the way when you are most wanted . 
You are the most unlucky Rogues ! 'Well , well , Father ! answered Jacques 'Had you been of my mind , all would have been over by this time . 
You , Robert , Claude , and myself , why the Strangers were but double the number , and I warrant you we might have mastered them . 
However , Claude is gone 'Tis too late to think of it now . 
We must wait patiently for the arrival of the Gang and if the Travellers escape us tonight , we must take care to waylay them tomorrow . 
'True ! True ! said Baptiste 'Marguerite , have you given the sleeping draught to the Waiting women ? She replied in the affirmative . 
Come , come , Boys Whatever falls out , we have no reason to complain of this adventure . 
We run no danger , may gain much , and can lose nothing . 
At this moment I heard a trampling of Horses . 
Oh ! how dreadful was the sound to my ears . 
A cold sweat flowed down my forehead , and I felt all the terrors of impending death . 
'Open ! Open ! exclaimed several voices on the outside of the Cottage . 
'Yes ! Yes ! cried Baptiste joyfully 'They are our Friends sure enough ! Now then our booty is certain . 
Away ! Lads , Away ! Lead them to the Barn You know what is to be done there . 
Robert hastened to open the door of the Cottage . 
'But first , said Jacques , taking up his arms 'first let me dispatch these Sleepers . 
'No , no , no ! replied his Father 'Go you to the Barn , where your presence is wanted . 
Leave me to take care of these and the Women above . 
Jacques obeyed , and followed his Brother . 
They seemed to converse with the New Comers for a few minutes After which I heard the Robbers dismount , and as I conjectured , bend their course towards the Barn . 
'So ! That is wisely done ! muttered Baptiste 'They have quitted their Horses , that They may fall upon the Strangers by surprise . 
Good ! Good ! and now to business . 
I heard him approach a small Cupboard which was fixed up in a distant part of the room , and unlock it . 
At this moment I felt myself shaken gently . 
'Now ! Now ! whispered Marguerite . 
Baptiste stood with his back towards me . 
No one else was in the room save Marguerite and the sleeping Lady . 
The Villain had taken a dagger from the Cupboard and seemed examining whether it was sufficiently sharp . 
I had neglected to furnish myself with arms But I perceived this to be my only chance of escaping , and resolved not to lose the opportunity . 
I sprang from my seat , darted suddenly upon Baptiste , and clasping my hands round his throat , pressed it so forcibly as to prevent his uttering a single cry . 
You may remember that I was remarkable at Salamanca for the power of my arm It now rendered me an essential service . 
Surprised , terrified , and breathless , the Villain was by no means an equal Antagonist . 
No sooner was this horrible but necessary act perpetrated than Marguerite called on me to follow her . 
The Horses of the Banditti were fastened near the door My Conductress sprang upon one of them . 
I followed her example , placed the Baroness before me , and spurred on my Horse . 
Our only hope was to reach Strasbourg , which was much nearer than the perfidious Claude had assured me . 
Marguerite was well acquainted with the road , and galloped on before me . 
We were obliged to pass by the Barn , where the Robbers were slaughtering our Domestics . 
He flew to the Door with a burning Torch in his hand , and easily recognised the Fugitives . 
'Betrayed ! Betrayed ! He shouted to his Companions . 
Instantly they left their bloody work , and hastened to regain their Horses . 
I buried my spurs in the sides of my Courser , and Marguerite goaded on hers with the poignard , which had already rendered us such good service . 
We flew like lightning , and gained the open plains . 
Already was Strasbourg's Steeple in sight , when we heard the Robbers pursuing us . 
Marguerite looked back , and distinguished our followers descending a small Hill at no great distance . 
It was in vain that we urged on our Horses The noise approached nearer with every moment . 
'We are lost ! She exclaimed 'The Villains gain upon us ! 'On ! On ! replied I 'I hear the trampling of Horses coming from the Town . 
We redoubled our exertions , and were soon aware of a numerous band of Cavaliers , who came towards us at full speed . 
They were on the point of passing us . 
'Stay ! Stay ! shrieked Marguerite 'Save us ! For God's sake , save us ! The Foremost , who seemed to act as Guide , immediately reined in his Steed . 
The other Cavaliers stopped at the exclamation . 
'The Baroness Lindenberg ? cried another of the Strangers eagerly 'Where is She ? Is She not with you ? He stopped on beholding her lying senseless in my arms . 
Hastily He caught her from me . 
The profound sleep in which She was plunged made him at first tremble for her life but the beating of her heart soon reassured him . 
'God be thanked ! said He 'She has escaped unhurt . 
I interrupted his joy by pointing out the Brigands , who continued to approach . 
No sooner had I mentioned them than the greatest part of the Company , which appeared to be chiefly composed of soldiers , hastened forward to meet them . 
The Villains stayed not to receive their attack Perceiving their danger they turned the heads of their Horses , and fled into the wood , whither they were followed by our Preservers . 
This was at the Austrian Eagle , where my Banker , whom before my quitting Paris I had apprised of my intention to visit Strasbourg , had prepared Lodgings for me . 
I rejoiced at this circumstance . 
It gave me an opportunity of cultivating the Baron's acquaintance , which I foresaw would be of use to me in Germany . 
The Baron then addressed himself to me , and entreated me to recount the particulars of this adventure . 
I received but too soon the intelligence , that my trusty Servant had perished . 
The Soldiers who had pursued the Brigands returned while I was employed in relating my adventure to the Baron . 
By this means the whole of the Band , consisting of near sixty persons , had been made Prisoners , bound , and conducted to Strasbourg . 
Some of the Soldiers hastened to the Cottage , One of the Banditti serving them as Guide . 
Their first visit was to the fatal Barn , where they were fortunate enough to find two of the Baron's Servants still alive , though desperately wounded . 
The rest had expired beneath the swords of the Robbers , and of these my unhappy Stephano was one . 
Alarmed at our escape , the Robbers in their haste to overtake us , had neglected to visit the Cottage . 
In consequence , the Soldiers found the two Waiting women unhurt , and buried in the same death like slumber which had overpowered their Mistress . 
There was nobody else found in the Cottage , except a child not above four years old , which the Soldiers brought away with them . 
We were busying ourselves with conjectures respecting the birth of this little unfortunate , when Marguerite rushed into the room with the Baby in her arms . 
She fell at the feet of the Officer who was making us this report , and blessed him a thousand times for the preservation of her Child . 
She bent her eyes downwards , and wiped a few tears from her cheek . 
'Gentlemen , said She after a silence of some minutes , 'I would request a favour of you You have a right to know on whom you confer an obligation . 
I will not therefore stifle a confession which covers me with shame But permit me to comprise it in as few words as possible . 
A Villain made himself Master of my affections , and to follow him I quitted my Father's House . 
Yet though my passions overpowered my virtue , I sank not into that degeneracy of vice , but too commonly the lot of Women who make the first false step . 
Even at this moment I lament his loss , though 'tis to him that I owe all the miseries of my existence . 
'He was of noble birth , but He had squandered away his paternal inheritance . 
His Relations considered him as a disgrace to their name , and utterly discarded him . 
His excesses drew upon him the indignation of the Police . 
I was determined not to forsake him . 
I followed him to the Cavern of the Brigands , and shared with him the misery inseparable from a life of pillage . 
But though I was aware that our existence was supported by plunder , I knew not all the horrible circumstances attached to my Lover's profession . 
He succeeded perfectly It was not till after my Seducer's death , that I discovered his hands to have been stained with the blood of innocence . 
'One fatal night He was brought back to the Cavern covered with wounds He received them in attacking an English Traveller , whom his Companions immediately sacrificed to their resentment . 
He had only time to entreat my pardon for all the sorrows which He had caused me He pressed my hand to his lips , and expired . 
They cast lots to decide to whose possession I should fall I became the property of the infamous Baptiste . 
'He assured me that He had long entertained for me the most ardent regard But that Friendship for my deceased Lover had obliged him to stifle his desires . 
No resource remained for me but to bear my sorrows with patience I was conscious that I deserved them but too well . 
Flight was forbidden My Children were in the power of Baptiste , and He had sworn that if I attempted to escape , their lives should pay for it . 
I had had too many opportunities of witnessing the barbarity of his nature to doubt his fulfilling his oath to the very letter . 
'My nature was licentious and warm , but not cruel My conduct had been imprudent , but my heart was not unprincipled . 
Chagrin and discontent preyed upon my constitution The few charms bestowed on me by nature withered away , and the dejection of my countenance denoted the sufferings of my heart . 
I was tempted a thousand times to put an end to my existence But the remembrance of my Children held my hand . 
I trembled to leave my dear Boys in my Tyrant's power , and trembled yet more for their virtue than their lives . 
He listened to me with docility , or rather with eagerness . 
'Such was my situation , when the perfidy of Don Alphonso's postillion conducted him to the Cottage . 
His youth , air , and manners interested me most forcibly in his behalf . 
The absence of my Husband's Sons gave me an opportunity which I had long wished to find , and I resolved to risque every thing to preserve the Stranger . 
I hoped that these marks would not escape the vigilance of our Guest , and that He would collect from them the designs of my perfidious Husband . 
Neither was this the only step which I took to preserve the Stranger . 
Theodore was confined to his bed by illness . 
I stole into his room unobserved by my Tyrant , communicated to him my project , and He entered into it with eagerness . 
He rose in spite of his malady , and dressed himself with all speed . 
I fastened one of the Sheets round his arms , and lowered him from the Window . 
He flew to the Stable , took Claude's Horse , and hastened to Strasbourg . 
Had He been accosted by the Banditti , He was to have declared himself sent upon a message by Baptiste , but fortunately He reached the Town without meeting any obstacle . 
Immediately upon his arrival at Strasbourg , He entreated assistance from the Magistrature His Story passed from mouth to mouth , and at length came to the knowledge of my Lord the Baron . 
Anxious for the safety of his Lady , whom He knew would be upon the road that Evening , it struck him that She might have fallen into the power of the Robbers . 
He accompanied Theodore who guided the Soldiers towards the Cottage , and arrived just in time to save us from falling once more into the hands of our Enemies . 
Here I interrupted Marguerite to enquire why the sleepy potion had been presented to me . 
The Baron then desired Marguerite to inform him , what were her present plans . 
I joined him in declaring my readiness to show my gratitude to her for the preservation of my life . 
'Disgusted with a world , She replied , 'in which I have met with nothing but misfortunes , my only wish is to retire into a Convent . 
But first I must provide for my Children . 
I engaged myself to provide for Theodore , and the Baron promised to take the youngest under his protection . 
The grateful Mother thanked us with tears for what She called generosity , but which in fact was no more than a proper sense of our obligations to her . 
She then left the room to put her little Boy to bed , whom fatigue and sleep had compleatly overpowered . 
The Baroness , on recovering and being informed from what dangers I had rescued her , set no bounds to the expressions of her gratitude . 
She was joined so warmly by her Husband in pressing me to accompany them to their Castle in Bavaria , that I found it impossible to resist their entreaties . 
During a week which we passed at Strasbourg , the interests of Marguerite were not forgotten In our application to her Father we succeeded as amply as we could wish . 
The good old Man had lost his Wife He had no Children but this unfortunate Daughter , of whom He had received no news for almost fourteen years . 
He was surrounded by distant Relations , who waited with impatience for his decease in order to get possession of his money . 
The disappointed Cousins were obliged to give place . 
The old Man would not hear of his Daughter's retiring into a Convent He said that She was too necessary to his happiness , and She was easily persuaded to relinquish her design . 
But no persuasions could induce Theodore to give up the plan which I had at first marked out for him . 
With some difficulty He persuaded his relations to let him follow me , and that permission once obtained , He was dubbed with the title of my Page . 
Having passed a week at Strasbourg , Theodore and myself set out for Bavaria in company with the Baron and his Lady . 
I have related this adventure at length , Lorenzo , that you might understand the means by which 'The Adventurer , Alphonso d'Alvarada got introduced into the Castle of Lindenberg . 
Continuation of the History of Don Raymond . 
My journey was uncommonly agreeable I found the Baron a Man of some sense , but little knowledge of the world . 
His attention to me was all that I could wish , and I had every reason to be satisfied with his behaviour . 
I happened to be a tolerable Sportsman Soon after my arrival at Lindenberg I gave some proofs of my dexterity . 
The Baron immediately marked me down for a Man of Genius , and vowed to me an eternal friendship . 
That friendship was become to me by no means indifferent . 
At the Castle of Lindenberg I beheld for the first time your Sister , the lovely Agnes . 
For me whose heart was unoccupied , and who grieved at the void , to see her and to love her were the same . 
I found in Agnes all that was requisite to secure my affection . 
From the moment that I beheld her , I felt the most lively interest in her fate . 
I made many enquiries respecting her of the Baroness . 
'She is my Niece , replied that Lady 'You are still ignorant , Don Alphonso , that I am your Countrywoman . 
While She was big with Agnes , your Mother was seized by a dangerous illness , and given over by her Physicians . 
In this situation , Donna Inesilla vowed , that if She recovered from her malady , the Child then living in her bosom if a Girl should be dedicated to St . 
Clare , if a Boy to St . 
Her prayers were heard She got rid of her complaint Agnes entered the world alive , and was immediately destined to the service of St . 
On her arrival at that Estate , the young Agnes was put into a Convent , situated but a few miles from the Castle . 
She looked with disgust upon the prospect before her However no alternative was offered to her , and She submitted to the decree of her Parents , though not without secret repining . 
That repugnance She had not art enough to conceal long Don Gaston was informed of it . 
The season of her taking the veil was fixed for the time when you should be upon your travels In the meanwhile no hint was dropped of Donna Inesilla's fatal vow . 
Your Sister was never permitted to know your direction . 
These particulars I learnt partly from Agnes , partly from the Baroness herself . 
I immediately determined upon rescuing this lovely Girl from a fate so contrary to her inclinations , and ill suited to her merit . 
I endeavoured to ingratiate myself into her favour I boasted of my friendship and intimacy with you . 
She listened to me with avidity She seemed to devour my words while I spoke in your praise , and her eyes thanked me for my affection to her Brother . 
My constant and unremitted attention at length gained me her heart , and with difficulty I obliged her to confess that She loved me . 
When however , I proposed her quitting the Castle of Lindenberg , She rejected the idea in positive terms . 
'Be generous , Alphonso , She said 'You possess my heart , but use not the gift ignobly . 
Employ not your ascendancy over me in persuading me to take a step , at which I should hereafter have to blush . 
I am young and deserted My Brother , my only Friend , is separated from me , and my other Relations act with me as my Enemies . 
Take pity on my unprotected situation . 
Instead of seducing me to an action which would cover me with shame , strive rather to gain the affections of those who govern me . 
My Aunt , to others ever harsh proud and contemptuous , remembers that you rescued her from the hands of Murderers , and wears with you alone the appearance of kindness and benignity . 
Try then your influence over my Guardians . 
From the first moment that I beheld Agnes , I had endeavoured to conciliate the favour of her Relations . 
Authorised by the confession of her regard , I redoubled my exertions . 
Her understanding was strong and excellent when not obscured by prejudice , which unluckily was but seldom the case . 
Her passions were violent She spared no pains to gratify them , and pursued with unremitting vengeance those who opposed themselves to her wishes . 
The warmest of Friends , the most inveterate of Enemies , such was the Baroness Lindenberg . 
I laboured incessantly to please her Unluckily I succeeded but too well . 
She seemed gratified by my attention , and treated me with a distinction accorded by her to no one else . 
Donna Rodolpha's Library was principally composed of old Spanish Romances These were her favourite studies , and once a day one of these unmerciful Volumes was put regularly into my hands . 
One Evening , I was alone with Donna Rodolpha in her own apartment . 
As our readings generally treated of love , Agnes was never permitted to assist at them . 
Ah ! Donna Rodolpha , might I but hope for your approbation of my love ! Might I but confess the name of my Mistress without incurring your resentment ! She interrupted me . 
At length I can no longer hide my weakness either from myself or from you . 
Pride , fear , and honour , respect for myself , and my engagements to the Baron , all are vanquished . 
I sacrifice them to my love for you , and it still seems to me that I pay too mean a price for your possession . 
She paused for an answer . 
Judge , my Lorenzo , what must have been my confusion at this discovery . 
I at once saw all the magnitude of this obstacle , which I had raised myself to my happiness . 
I was silent for some minutes . 
No sooner had She avowed her passion than the transports which before were evident in my features gave place to consternation and constraint . 
I dropped her hand , and rose from my knees . 
The change in my countenance did not escape her observation . 
Honour obliges me to inform you that you have mistaken for the solicitude of Love what was only the attention of Friendship . 
The latter sentiment is that which I wished to excite in your bosom To entertain a warmer , respect for you forbids me , and gratitude for the Baron's generous treatment . 
Perhaps these reasons would not be sufficient to shield me from your attractions , were it not that my affections are already bestowed upon another . 
You have charms , Segnora , which might captivate the most insensible No heart unoccupied could resist them . 
Happy is it for me that mine is no longer in my possession or I should have to reproach myself for ever with having violated the Laws of Hospitality . 
Recollect yourself , noble Lady Recollect what is owed by you to honour , by me to the Baron , and replace by esteem and friendship those sentiments which I never can return . 
The Baroness turned pale at this unexpected and positive declaration She doubted whether She slept or woke . 
At length recovering from her surprise , consternation gave place to rage , and the blood rushed back into her cheeks with violence . 
'Villain ! She cried 'Monster of deceit ! Thus is the avowal of my love received ? Is it thus that . 
'For God's sake , Segnora , restrain these transports They disgrace yourself and me . 
Your exclamations may be heard , and your secret divulged to your Attendants . 
I see that my presence only irritates you permit me to retire . 
I prepared to quit the apartment The Baroness caught me suddenly by the arm . 
'And who is this happy Rival ? said She in a menacing tone 'I will know her name , and WHEN I know it . 
She panted , groaned , and at length fainted away . 
As She was falling I caught her in my arms , and placed her upon a Sopha . 
Then hastening to the door , I summoned her Women to her assistance I committed her to their care , and seized the opportunity of escaping . 
Agitated and confused beyond expression I bent my steps towards the Garden . 
Extreme was my disappointment at understanding the true purport of her discourse . 
As I past by a low parlour , whose windows looked into the Garden , through the door which stood half open I observed Agnes seated at a Table . 
She was occupied in drawing , and several unfinished sketches were scattered round her . 
I entered , still undetermined whether I should acquaint her with the declaration of the Baroness . 
'Oh ! is it only you ? said She , raising her head 'You are no Stranger , and I shall continue my occupation without ceremony . 
Take a Chair , and seat yourself by me . 
I obeyed , and placed myself near the Table . 
Unconscious what I was doing , and totally occupied by the scene which had just passed , I took up some of the drawings , and cast my eye over them . 
One of the subjects struck me from its singularity . 
It represented the great Hall of the Castle of Lindenberg . 
A door conducting to a narrow staircase stood half open . 
In the foreground appeared a Groupe of figures , placed in the most grotesque attitudes Terror was expressed upon every countenance . 
Here was One upon his knees with his eyes cast up to heaven , and praying most devoutly There Another was creeping away upon all fours . 
It represented a Female of more than human stature , clothed in the habit of some religious order . 
Her face was veiled On her arm hung a chaplet of beads Her dress was in several places stained with the blood which trickled from a wound upon her bosom . 
In one hand She held a Lamp , in the other a large Knife , and She seemed advancing towards the iron gates of the Hall . 
'What does this mean , Agnes ? said I 'Is this some invention of your own ? She cast her eye upon the drawing . 
'Oh ! no , She replied 'Tis the invention of much wiser heads than mine . 
But can you possibly have lived at Lindenberg for three whole Months without hearing of the Bleeding Nun ? 'You are the first , who ever mentioned the name to me . 
Pray , who may the Lady be ? 'That is more than I can pretend to tell you . 
All my knowledge of her History comes from an old tradition in this family , which has been handed down from Father to Son , and is firmly credited throughout the Baron's domains . 
'It is surprising that in all the Chronicles of past times , this remarkable Personage is never once mentioned . 
Fain would I recount to you her life But unluckily till after her death She was never known to have existed . 
Then first did She think it necessary to make some noise in the world , and with that intention She made bold to seize upon the Castle of Lindenberg . 
Perhaps She was a bad Sleeper , but this I have never been able to ascertain . 
According to the tradition , this entertainment commenced about a Century ago . 
It was accompanied with shrieking , howling , groaning , swearing , and many other agreeable noises of the same kind . 
But though one particular room was more especially honoured with her visits , She did not entirely confine herself to it . 
In these nocturnal excursions She was seen by different People , who all describe her appearance as you behold it here , traced by the hand of her unworthy Historian . 
The singularity of this account insensibly engaged my attention . 
'Did She never speak to those who met her ? said I. 'Not She . 
The specimens indeed , which She gave nightly of her talents for conversation , were by no means inviting . 
In short She seemed a mighty capricious Being But whether She prayed or cursed , whether She was impious or devout , She always contrived to terrify her Auditors out of their senses . 
The Castle became scarcely habitable and its Lord was so frightened by these midnight Revels , that one fine morning He was found dead in his bed . 
This success seemed to please the Nun mightily , for now She made more noise than ever . 
But the next Baron proved too cunning for her . 
He made his appearance with a celebrated Exorciser in his hand , who feared not to shut himself up for a night in the haunted Chamber . 
There it seems that He had an hard battle with the Ghost , before She would promise to be quiet . 
She was obstinate , but He was more so , and at length She consented to let the Inhabitants of the Castle take a good night's rest . 
For some time after no news was heard of her . 
But at the end of five years the Exorciser died , and then the Nun ventured to peep abroad again . 
However , She was now grown much more tractable and well behaved . 
She walked about in silence , and never made her appearance above once in five years . 
This custom , if you will believe the Baron , She still continues . 
He is fully persuaded , that on the fifth of May of every fifth year , as soon as the Clock strikes One , the Door of the haunted Chamber opens . 
The Lady then retires to her chamber , and is quiet for another five years . 
However I must not avow my incredulity to the Baroness She entertains not a doubt of the truth of this History . 
As to Dame Cunegonda , my Governess , She protests that fifteen years ago She saw the Spectre with her own eyes . 
'The figure is admirable , my dear Agnes ! I knew not that you possessed such talents for the ridiculous . 
'Stay a moment , She replied 'I will show you a figure still more ridiculous than Dame Cunegonda's . 
If it pleases you , you may dispose of it as seems best to yourself . 
She rose , and went to a Cabinet at some little distance . 
Unlocking a drawer , She took out a small case , which She opened , and presented to me . 
'Do you know the resemblance ? said She smiling . 
Transported at the gift , I pressed the portrait to my lips with passion I threw myself at her feet , and declared my gratitude in the warmest and most affectionate terms . 
Amazed at this abrupt departure , I rose hastily from my knees . 
I beheld with confusion the Baroness standing near me glowing with jealousy , and almost choaked with rage . 
On recovering from her swoon , She had tortured her imagination to discover her concealed Rival . 
No one appeared to deserve her suspicions more than Agnes . 
She immediately hastened to find her Niece , tax her with encouraging my addresses , and assure herself whether her conjectures were well grounded . 
Unfortunately She had already seen enough to need no other confirmation . 
She arrived at the door of the room at the precise moment , when Agnes gave me her Portrait . 
She heard me profess an everlasting attachment to her Rival , and saw me kneeling at her feet . 
She advanced to separate us We were too much occupied by each other to perceive her approach , and were not aware of it , till Agnes beheld her standing by my side . 
Rage on the part of Donna Rodolpha , embarrassment on mine , for some time kept us both silent . 
The Lady recovered herself first . 
'My suspicions then were just , said She 'The Coquetry of my Niece has triumphed , and 'tis to her that I am sacrificed . 
In one respect however I am fortunate I shall not be the only one who laments a disappointed passion . 
You too shall know , what it is to love without hope ! I daily expect orders for restoring Agnes to her Parents . 
Immediately upon her arrival in Spain , She will take the veil , and place an insuperable barrier to your union . 
You may spare your supplications . 
She continued , perceiving me on the point of speaking 'My resolution is fixed and immoveable . 
Your Mistress shall remain a close Prisoner in her chamber till She exchanges this Castle for the Cloister . 
Farewell , Segnor Remember , that tomorrow morning we meet for the last time . 
Having said this , She darted upon me a look of pride , contempt , and malice , and quitted the apartment . 
I also retired to mine , and consumed the night in planning the means of rescuing Agnes from the power of her tyrannical Aunt . 
After the positive declaration of its Mistress , it was impossible for me to make a longer stay at the Castle of Lindenberg . 
Accordingly I the next day announced my immediate departure . 
The Baron declared that it gave him sincere pain and He expressed himself in my favour so warmly , that I endeavoured to win him over to my interest . 
Scarcely had I mentioned the name of Agnes when He stopped me short , and said , that it was totally out of his power to interfere in the business . 
I saw that it was in vain to argue The Baroness governed her Husband with despotic sway , and I easily perceived that She had prejudiced him against the match . 
Agnes did not appear I entreated permission to take leave of her , but my prayer was rejected . 
I was obliged to depart without seeing her . 
At quitting him the Baron shook my hand affectionately , and assured me that as soon as his Niece was gone , I might consider his House as my own . 
'Farewell , Don Alphonso ! said the Baroness , and stretched out her hand to me . 
I took it , and offered to carry it to my lips . 
Her Husband was at the other end of the room , and out of hearing . 
'Take care of yourself , She continued 'My love is become hatred , and my wounded pride shall not be unatoned . 
Go where you will , my vengeance shall follow you ! She accompanied these words with a look sufficient to make me tremble . 
I answered not , but hastened to quit the Castle . 
As my Chaise drove out of the Court , I looked up to the windows of your Sister's chamber . 
Nobody was to be seen there I threw myself back despondent in my Carriage . 
I was attended by no other servants than a Frenchman whom I had hired at Strasbourg in Stephano's room , and my little Page whom I before mentioned to you . 
Scarcely had we proceeded half a mile from the Castle , when He rode up to the Chaise door . 
'Take courage , Segnor ! said He in Spanish , which He had already learnt to speak with fluency and correctness . 
'While you were with the Baron , I watched the moment when Dame Cunegonda was below stairs , and mounted into the chamber over that of Donna Agnes . 
I sang as loud as I could a little German air well known to her , hoping that She would recollect my voice . 
I was not disappointed , for I soon heard her window open . 
He then presented me with a small note addressed to me . 
I opened it with impatience It contained the following words written in pencil Conceal yourself for the next fortnight in some neighbouring Village . 
My Aunt will believe you to have quitted Lindenberg , and I shall be restored to liberty . 
I will be in the West Pavilion at twelve on the night of the thirtieth . 
Fail not to be there , and we shall have an opportunity of concerting our future plans . 
At perusing these lines my transports exceeded all bounds Neither did I set any to the expressions of gratitude which I heaped upon Theodore . 
In fact his address and attention merited my warmest praise . 
He observed in silence what was going on , nor strove to make himself an Agent in the business till my interests required his interference . 
I equally admired his judgment , his penetration , his address , and his fidelity . 
This was not the first occasion in which I had found him of infinite use , and I was every day more convinced of his quickness and capacity . 
He is now fifteen He is still in my service , and when you see him , I am sure that He will please you . 
But excuse this digression I return to the subject which I quitted . 
I obeyed the instructions of Agnes . 
There I left my Chaise under the care of Lucas , my French Servant , and then returned on Horseback to a small Village about four miles distant from the Castle of Lindenberg . 
Upon arriving there a story was related to the Host at whose Inn I descended , which prevented his wondering at my making so long a stay in his House . 
The old Man fortunately was credulous and incurious He believed all I said , and sought to know no more than what I thought proper to tell him . 
Nobody was with me but Theodore Both were disguised , and as we kept ourselves close , we were not suspected to be other than what we seemed . 
In this manner the fortnight passed away . 
During that time I had the pleasing conviction that Agnes was once more at liberty . 
She past through the Village with Dame Cunegonda She seemed in health and spirits , and talked to her Companion without any appearance of constraint . 
'Who are those Ladies ? said I to my Host , as the Carriage past . 
'Baron Lindenberg's Niece with her Governess , He replied 'She goes regularly every Friday to the Convent of St . 
Catharine , in which She was brought up , and which is situated about a mile from hence . 
You may be certain that I waited with impatience for the ensuing Friday . 
I again beheld my lovely Mistress . 
She cast her eyes upon me , as She passed the Inn door . 
A blush which overspread her cheek told me that in spite of my disguise I had been recognised . 
She returned the compliment by a slight inclination of the head as if made to one inferior , and looked another way till the Carriage was out of sight . 
The long expected , long wished for night arrived . 
It was calm , and the Moon was at the full . 
As soon as the Clock struck eleven I hastened to my appointment , determined not to be too late . 
Theodore had provided a Ladder I ascended the Garden wall without difficulty The Page followed me , and drew the Ladder after us . 
I posted myself in the West Pavilion , and waited impatiently for the approach of Agnes . 
Every breeze that whispered , every leaf that fell , I believed to be her footstep , and hastened to meet her . 
Thus was I obliged to pass a full hour , every minute of which appeared to me an age . 
The Castle Bell at length tolled twelve , and scarcely could I believe the night to be no further advanced . 
Another quarter of an hour elapsed , and I heard the light foot of my Mistress approaching the Pavilion with precaution . 
I flew to receive her , and conducted her to a seat . 
I threw myself at her feet , and was expressing my joy at seeing her , when She thus interrupted me . 
'We have no time to lose , Alphonso The moments are precious , for though no more a Prisoner , Cunegonda watches my every step . 
An express is arrived from my Father I must depart immediately for Madrid , and 'tis with difficulty that I have obtained a week's delay . 
The superstition of my Parents , supported by the representations of my cruel Aunt , leaves me no hope of softening them to compassion . 
Now listen to the plan by which I hope to effect my escape . 
'We are now at the thirtieth of April . 
On the fifth day from this the Visionary Nun is expected to appear . 
Provide a carriage , and be with it at a little distance from the great Gate of the Castle . 
As soon as the Clock strikes 'one , I shall quit my chamber , drest in the same apparel as the Ghost is supposed to wear . 
Whoever meets me will be too much terrified to oppose my escape . 
I shall easily reach the door , and throw myself under your protection . 
I also repined in secret at not having taken the precaution to provide a Carriage at the Village , in which case I might have carried off Agnes that very night . 
Such an attempt was now impracticable Neither Carriage or Horses were to be procured nearer than Munich , which was distant from Lindenberg two good days journey . 
Agnes reclined her head mournfully upon my shoulder , and by the light of the Moon I saw tears flowing down her cheek . 
I strove to dissipate her melancholy , and encouraged her to look forward to the prospect of happiness . 
Suddenly the door of the Pavilion was thrown open , and Cunegonda stood before us . 
She had heard Agnes steal out of her chamber , followed her into the Garden , and perceived her entering the Pavilion . 
Favoured by the Trees which shaded it , and unperceived by Theodore who waited at a little distance , She had approached in silence , and overheard our whole conversation . 
'Admirable ! cried Cunegonda in a voice shrill with passion , while Agnes uttered a loud shriek 'By St . 
The noble Lady shall be informed of the whole affair , and Agnes must defer playing the Spectre till a better opportunity . 
Farewell , Segnor Donna Agnes , let me have the honour of conducting your Ghost ship back to your apartment . 
She approached the Sopha on which her trembling Pupil was seated , took her by the hand , and prepared to lead her from the Pavilion . 
'Your obstinacy must be its own punishment , said I 'But one resource remains to save Agnes and myself , and I shall not hesitate to employ it . 
Terrified at this menace , She again endeavoured to quit the Pavilion But I seized her by the wrist , and detained her forcibly . 
At the same moment Theodore , who had followed her into the room , closed the door , and prevented her escape . 
At length I succeeded in gagging her so compleatly that She could not produce a single sound . 
Theodore and myself with some difficulty next contrived to bind her hands and feet with our handkerchiefs And I advised Agnes to regain her chamber with all diligence . 
Trembling and uneasy She had scarce power enough to signify her consent to my plans , and fled back to her apartment in disorder and confusion . 
In the meanwhile Theodore assisted me in carrying off my antiquated Prize . 
She was hoisted over the wall , placed before me upon my Horse like a Portmanteau , and I galloped away with her from the Castle of Lindenberg . 
Before we reached the Inn , I had already determined how to dispose of the troublesome Cunegonda . 
We entered the Street in which the Inn stood , and while the page knocked , I waited at a little distance . 
The Landlord opened the door with a Lamp in his hand . 
'Give me the light ! said Theodore 'My Master is coming . 
He snatched the Lamp hastily , and purposely let it fall upon the ground The Landlord returned to the Kitchen to re light the Lamp , leaving the door open . 
The Landlord and Theodore soon after appeared with lights The Former expressed himself a little surprised at my returning so late , but asked no impertinent questions . 
He soon quitted the room , and left me to exult in the success of my undertaking . 
I immediately paid a visit to my Prisoner . 
I strove to persuade her submitting with patience to her temporary confinement . 
Unable to speak or move , She expressed her fury by her looks , and except at meals I never dared to unbind her , or release her from the Gag . 
At such times I stood over her with a drawn sword , and protested , that if She uttered a single cry , I would plunge it in her bosom . 
As soon as She had done eating , the Gag was replaced . 
I was conscious that this proceeding was cruel , and could only be justified by the urgency of circumstances As to Theodore , He had no scruples upon the subject . 
Cunegonda's captivity entertained him beyond measure . 
This was in fact the case . 
No one except Agnes could imagine what was become of Dame Cunegonda Every hole and corner was searched for her The Ponds were dragged , and the Woods underwent a thorough examination . 
Still no Dame Cunegonda made her appearance . 
Agnes kept the secret , and I kept the Duenna The Baroness , therefore , remained in total ignorance respecting the old Woman's fate , but suspected her to have perished by suicide . 
Thus past away five days , during which I had prepared every thing necessary for my enterprise . 
He obeyed my instructions punctually The Equipage arrived at the time appointed . 
As the period of her Lady's elopement drew nearer , Cunegonda's rage increased . 
I verily believe that spight and passion would have killed her , had I not luckily discovered her prepossession in favour of Cherry Brandy . 
With this favourite liquor She was plentifully supplied , and Theodore always remaining to guard her , the Gag was occasionally removed . 
The fifth of May arrived , a period by me never to be forgotten ! Before the Clock struck twelve , I betook myself to the scene of action . 
Theodore followed me on horseback . 
The night was calm and beautiful The Moonbeams fell upon the antient Towers of the Castle , and shed upon their summits a silver light . 
I heard her melancholy shriek , and looked upwards . 
She sat upon the ride of a window , which I recognized to be that of the haunted Room . 
This brought to my remembrance the story of the Bleeding Nun , and I sighed while I reflected on the influence of superstition and weakness of human reason . 
Suddenly I heard a faint chorus steal upon the silence of the night . 
Doubtless , the Baron has given an entertainment to celebrate his arrival . 
The Castle Bell announced the hour of midnight This was the usual signal for the family to retire to Bed . 
Soon after I perceived lights in the Castle moving backwards and forwards in different directions . 
I conjectured the company to be separating . 
I could hear the heavy doors grate as they opened with difficulty , and as they closed again the rotten Casements rattled in their frames . 
The chamber of Agnes was on the other side of the Castle . 
Agitated by this apprehension , I kept my eyes constantly fixed upon the window , where I hoped to perceive the friendly glare of a Lamp borne by Agnes . 
I now heard the massy Gates unbarred . 
By the candle in his hand I distinguished old Conrad , the Porter . 
He set the Portal doors wide open , and retired . 
The lights in the Castle gradually disappeared , and at length the whole Building was wrapt in darkness . 
While I sat upon a broken ridge of the Hill , the stillness of the scene inspired me with melancholy ideas not altogether unpleasing . 
The Castle which stood full in my sight , formed an object equally awful and picturesque . 
Yet did not these sensations occupy me so fully , as to prevent me from witnessing with impatience the slow progress of time . 
I approached the Castle , and ventured to walk round it . 
A few rays of light still glimmered in the chamber of Agnes . 
I observed them with joy . 
I was still gazing upon them , when I perceived a figure draw near the window , and the Curtain was carefully closed to conceal the Lamp which burned there . 
Convinced by this observation that Agnes had not abandoned our plan , I returned with a light heart to my former station . 
The half hour struck ! The three quarters struck ! My bosom beat high with hope and expectation . 
At length the wished for sound was heard . 
The Bell tolled 'One , and the Mansion echoed with the noise loud and solemn . 
I looked up to the Casement of the haunted Chamber . 
Scarcely had five minutes elapsed , when the expected light appeared . 
I was now close to the Tower . 
The window was not so far from the Ground but that I fancied I perceived a female figure with a Lamp in her hand moving slowly along the Apartment . 
The light soon faded away , and all was again dark and gloomy . 
Occasional gleams of brightness darted from the Staircase windows as the lovely Ghost past by them . 
I traced the light through the Hall It reached the Portal , and at length I beheld Agnes pass through the folding gates . 
She was habited exactly as She had described the Spectre . 
She advanced towards the spot where I stood . 
I flew to meet her , and clasped her in my arms . 
I raised her in my arms , and conveyed her to the Carriage . 
Theodore remained behind in order to release Dame Cunegonda . 
I also charged him with a letter to the Baroness explaining the whole affair , and entreating her good offices in reconciling Don Gaston to my union with his Daughter . 
I stepped into the Carriage , where Agnes was already seated . 
Theodore closed the door , and the Postillions drove away . 
They strove in vain to obey me . 
The Horses refused to answer the rein , and continued to rush on with astonishing swiftness . 
The Postillions redoubled their efforts to stop them , but by kicking and plunging the Beasts soon released themselves from this restraint . 
Uttering a loud shriek , the Drivers were hurled upon the ground . 
Immediately thick clouds obscured the sky The winds howled around us , the lightning flashed , and the Thunder roared tremendously . 
Never did I behold so frightful a Tempest ! Terrified by the jar of contending elements , the Horses seemed every moment to increase their speed . 
Nothing could interrupt their career They dragged the Carriage through Hedges and Ditches , dashed down the most dangerous precipices , and seemed to vye in swiftness with the rapidity of the winds . 
All this while my Companion lay motionless in my arms . 
The Carriage was shattered to pieces . 
In falling I struck my temple against a flint . 
I probably remained for some time in this situation , since when I opened my eyes , it was broad daylight . 
Several Peasants were standing round me , and seemed disputing whether my recovery was possible . 
I spoke German tolerably well . 
As soon as I could utter an articulate sound , I enquired after Agnes . 
Nobody was near me when they came up , and much time had been lost , before they succeeded in recovering me . 
The Peasants complied with my request All left me except Four , who made a litter of boughs and prepared to convey me to the neighbouring Town . 
It proved to be Ratisbon , and I could scarcely persuade myself that I had travelled to such a distance in a single night . 
I told the Countrymen that at one o'clock that morning I had past through the Village of Rosenwald . 
They shook their heads wistfully , and made signs to each other that I must certainly be delirious . 
I was conveyed to a decent Inn and immediately put to bed . 
A Physician was sent for , who set my arm with success . 
He smiled , and only replied by advising me to make myself easy , for that all proper care should be taken of me . 
As He quitted me , the Hostess met him at the door of the room . 
'The Gentleman is not quite in his right senses I heard him say to her in a low voice 'Tis the natural consequence of his fall , but that will soon be over . 
One after another the Peasants returned to the Inn , and informed me that no traces had been discovered of my unfortunate Mistress . 
I entreated them to renew their search in the most urgent terms , doubling the promises which I had already made them . 
My wild and frantic manner confirmed the bye standers in the idea of my being delirious . 
No signs of the Lady having appeared , they believed her to be a creature fabricated by my over heated brain , and paid no attention to my entreaties . 
However , the Hostess assured me that a fresh enquiry should be made , but I found afterwards that her promise was only given to quiet me . 
No further steps were taken in the business . 
The day passed away Still no news arrived of Agnes . 
The anxiety of fear now gave place to despondency . 
I ceased to rave about her and was plunged in the depth of melancholy reflections . 
Perceiving me to be silent and tranquil , my Attendants believed my delirium to have abated , and that my malady had taken a favourable turn . 
According to the Physician's order I swallowed a composing medicine and as soon as the night shut in , my attendants withdrew and left me to repose . 
That repose I wooed in vain . 
The agitation of my bosom chased away sleep . 
Restless in my mind , in spite of the fatigue of my body , I continued to toss about from side to side , till the Clock in a neighbouring Steeple struck 'One . 
As I listened to the mournful hollow sound , and heard it die away in the wind , I felt a sudden chillness spread itself over my body . 
I shuddered without knowing wherefore Cold dews poured down my forehead , and my hair stood bristling with alarm . 
Suddenly I heard slow and heavy steps ascending the staircase . 
By an involuntary movement I started up in my bed , and drew back the curtain . 
A single rush light which glimmered upon the hearth shed a faint gleam through the apartment , which was hung with tapestry . 
The door was thrown open with violence . 
A figure entered , and drew near my Bed with solemn measured steps . 
With trembling apprehension I examined this midnight Visitor . 
God Almighty ! It was the Bleeding Nun ! It was my lost Companion ! Her face was still veiled , but She no longer held her Lamp and dagger . 
She lifted up her veil slowly . 
What a sight presented itself to my startled eyes ! I beheld before me an animated Corse . 
Her countenance was long and haggard Her cheeks and lips were bloodless The paleness of death was spread over her features , and her eyeballs fixed stedfastly upon me were lustreless and hollow . 
I gazed upon the Spectre with horror too great to be described . 
My blood was frozen in my veins . 
I would have called for aid , but the sound expired ere it could pass my lips . 
My nerves were bound up in impotence , and I remained in the same attitude inanimate as a Statue . 
The visionary Nun looked upon me for some minutes in silence There was something petrifying in her regard . 
At length in a low sepulchral voice She pronounced the following words . 
The Apparition seated herself opposite to me at the foot of the Bed , and was silent . 
Her eyes were fixed earnestly upon mine They seemed endowed with the property of the Rattlesnake's , for I strove in vain to look off her . 
My eyes were fascinated , and I had not the power of withdrawing them from the Spectre's . 
In this attitude She remained for a whole long hour without speaking or moving nor was I able to do either . 
At length the Clock struck two . 
The Apparition rose from her seat , and approached the side of the bed . 
'' She then dropped my hand , quitted the chamber with slow steps , and the Door closed after her . 
Till that moment the faculties of my body had been all suspended Those of my mind had alone been waking . 
With some difficulty they succeeded in restoring me to my senses , and immediately sent for the Physician , who arrived in all diligence . 
He declared my fever to be very much increased , and that if I continued to suffer such violent agitation , He would not take upon him to ensure my life . 
Some medicines which He gave me in some degree tranquillized my spirits . 
I fell into a sort of slumber towards daybreak But fearful dreams prevented me from deriving any benefit from my repose . 
Agnes and the Bleeding Nun presented themselves by turns to my fancy , and combined to harass and torment me . 
I awoke fatigued and unrefreshed . 
The singularity of my adventure made me determine to conceal it from every one , since I could not expect that a circumstance so strange should gain credit . 
I was very uneasy about Agnes . 
I knew not what She would think at not finding me at the rendezvous , and dreaded her entertaining suspicions of my fidelity . 
However , I depended upon Theodore's discretion , and trusted that my letter to the Baroness would convince her of the rectitude of my intentions . 
These considerations somewhat lightened my inquietude upon her account But the impression left upon my mind by my nocturnal Visitor grew stronger with every succeeding moment . 
The night drew near I dreaded its arrival . 
Yet I strove to persuade myself that the Ghost would appear no more , and at all events I desired that a Servant might sit up in my chamber . 
I sank into a profound and tranquil slumber , and had already slept for some hours , when the neighbouring Clock rouzed me by striking 'One' . 
Its sound brought with it to my memory all the horrors of the night before . 
The same cold shivering seized me . 
I started up in my bed , and perceived the Servant fast asleep in an armed Chair near me . 
I called him by his name He made no answer . 
I shook him forcibly by the arm , and strove in vain to wake him . 
He was perfectly insensible to my efforts . 
I now heard the heavy steps ascending the staircase The Door was thrown open , and again the Bleeding Nun stood before me . 
Once more my limbs were chained in second infancy . 
Once more I heard those fatal words repeated , ''Raymond ! Raymond ! Thou art mine ! Raymond ! Raymond ! I am thine ! c . 
'' The scene which had shocked me so sensibly on the former night , was again presented . 
Even night was this repeated . 
Far from growing accustomed to the Ghost , every succeeding visit inspired me with greater horror . 
Her idea pursued me continually , and I became the prey of habitual melancholy . 
The constant agitation of my mind naturally retarded the re establishment of my health . 
The looks of my Attendants sufficiently denoted the little hope , which they entertained of my recovery . 
The profound sadness , which oppressed me without remission made the Physician consider me to be an Hypochondriac . 
You may be surprized that during this time I made no enquiries after your Sister . 
The particulars of her adventure which I shall now relate to you , were partly communicated to me by Theodore , and partly by Agnes herself . 
On the fatal night when her elopement was to have taken place , accident had not permitted her to quit her chamber at the appointed time . 
At length She ventured into the haunted room , descended the staircase leading into the Hall , found the Gates open as She expected , and left the Castle unobserved . 
She could discover no traces either of me or of the Carriage . 
Alarmed and disappointed , her only resource was to return to the Castle before the Baroness missed her But here She found herself in a fresh embarrassment . 
The Bell had already tolled 'Two The Ghostly hour was past , and the careful Porter had locked the folding gates . 
After much irresolution She ventured to knock softly . 
Luckily for her , Conrad was still awake He heard the noise and rose , murmuring at being called up a second time . 
No sooner had He opened one of the Doors , and beheld the supposed Apparition waiting there for admittance , than He uttered a loud cry , and sank upon his knees . 
Agnes profited by his terror . 
She glided by him , flew to her own apartment , and having thrown off her Spectre's trappings , retired to bed endeavouring in vain to account for my disappearing . 
In the mean while Theodore having seen my Carriage drive off with the false Agnes , returned joyfully to the Village . 
The next morning He released Cunegonda from her confinement , and accompanied her to the Castle . 
There He found the Baron , his Lady , and Don Gaston , disputing together upon the Porter's relation . 
They were still discussing this subject when the Page appeared with Cunegonda and cleared up the mystery . 
The first surprize which this discovery occasioned being over , the Baroness resolved to make it of use in persuading her Niece to take the veil . 
Fearing lest so advantageous an establishment for his Daughter should induce Don Gaston to renounce his resolution , She suppressed my letter , and continued to represent me as a needy unknown Adventurer . 
The consequence was that my rank was known to no one in the Castle except the Baroness , and She took good care to confine the knowledge to her own breast . 
Don Gaston having approved his Sister's design , Agnes was summoned to appear before them . 
To this account my sudden disappearing gave but too great an air of probability . 
Incensed at my behaviour , and disgusted with the world in general , She consented to receive the veil . 
She past another Month at the Castle of Lindenberg , during which my non appearance confirmed her in her resolution , and then accompanied Don Gaston into Spain . 
Theodore was now set at liberty . 
So much was I altered , that scarcely could He recollect my features The distress visible upon his sufficiently testified how lively was the interest which He felt for me . 
The society of this amiable Boy , whom I had always considered rather as a Companion than a Servant , was now my only comfort . 
He had also acquired some taste in poetry , and even ventured sometimes to write verses himself . 
Theodore perceived well enough that something preyed upon my mind But as I concealed the cause of my grief even from him , Respect would not permit him to pry into my secrets . 
'Ha ! Ha ! cried He suddenly 'Yonder is the Great Mogul . 
'Who ? said I. 'Only a Man who made me a strange speech at Munich . 
'What was the purport of it ? 'Now you put me in mind of it , Segnor , it was a kind of message to you but truly it was not worth delivering . 
I believe the Fellow to be mad , for my part . 
When I came to Munich in search of you , I found him living at 'The King of the Romans , and the Host gave me an odd account of him . 
By his accent He is supposed to be a Foreigner , but of what Country nobody can tell . 
He seemed to have no acquaintance in the Town , spoke very seldom , and never was seen to smile . 
He had neither Servants or Baggage But his Purse seemed well furnished , and He did much good in the Town . 
Some supposed him to be an Arabian Astrologer , Others to be a Travelling Mountebank , and many declared that He was Doctor Faustus , whom the Devil had sent back to Germany . 
The Landlord , however told me , that He had the best reasons to believe him to be the Great Mogul incognito . 
'But the strange speech , Theodore . 
'True , I had almost forgotten the speech Indeed for that matter , it would not have been a great loss if I had forgotten it altogether . 
You are to know , Segnor , that while I was enquiring about you of the Landlord , this Stranger passed by . 
He stopped , and looked at me earnestly . 
'Youth ! said He in a solemn voice , 'He whom you seek , has found that which He would fain lose . 
My hand alone can dry up the blood Bid your Master wish for me when the Clock strikes , 'One . 
'How ? cried I , starting from my Sopha . 
I waited his return impatiently . 
But a short space of time had elapsed when He again appeared and ushered the expected Guest into my chamber . 
He was drest plainly , his hair was unpowdered , and a band of black velvet which encircled his forehead spread over his features an additional gloom . 
His countenance wore the marks of profound melancholy his step was slow , and his manner grave , stately , and solemn . 
He saluted me with politeness and having replied to the usual compliments of introduction , He motioned to Theodore to quit the chamber . 
'I know your business , said He , without giving me time to speak . 
'I have the power of releasing you from your nightly Visitor But this cannot be done before Sunday . 
On the hour when the Sabbath Morning breaks , Spirits of darkness have least influence over Mortals . 
After Saturday the Nun shall visit you no more . 
'And what is that request ? 'That She must herself explain It lies not in my knowledge . 
Wait with patience for the night of Saturday All shall be then cleared up . 
I dared not press him further . 
He soon after changed the conversation and talked of various matters . 
He named People who had ceased to exist for many Centuries , and yet with whom He appeared to have been personally acquainted . 
I could not mention a Country however distant which He had not visited , nor could I sufficiently admire the extent and variety of his information . 
I remarked to him that having travelled , seen , and known so much , must have given him infinite pleasure . 
He shook his head mournfully . 
I have no Friend in the world , and from the restlessness of my destiny I never can acquire one . 
Fain would I lay down my miserable life , for I envy those who enjoy the quiet of the Grave But Death eludes me , and flies from my embrace . 
In vain do I throw myself in the way of danger . 
God has set his seal upon me , and all his Creatures respect this fatal mark ! He put his hand to the velvet , which was bound round his forehead . 
There was in his eyes an expression of fury , despair , and malevolence , that struck horror to my very soul . 
An involuntary convulsion made me shudder . 
'Such is the curse imposed on me , he continued 'I am doomed to inspire all who look on me with terror and detestation . 
You already feel the influence of the charm , and with every succeeding moment will feel it more . 
I will not add to your sufferings by my presence . 
As soon as the Clock strikes twelve , expect me at your chamber door . 
Having said this He departed , leaving me in astonishment at the mysterious turn of his manner and conversation . 
His assurances that I should soon be relieved from the Apparition's visits produced a good effect upon my constitution . 
Theodore , whom I rather treated as an adopted Child than a Domestic , was surprized at his return to observe the amendment in my looks . 
He congratulated me on this symptom of returning health , and declared himself delighted at my having received so much benefit from my conference with the Great Mogul . 
Upon enquiry I found that the Stranger had already past eight days in Ratisbon According to his own account , therefore , He was only to remain there six days longer . 
Saturday was still at the distance of Three . 
The wished for night arrived . 
To avoid creating suspicion I retired to bed at my usual hour But as soon as my Attendants had left me , I dressed myself again , and prepared for the Stranger's reception . 
He entered my room upon the turn of midnight . 
A small Chest was in his hand , which He placed near the Stove . 
He saluted me without speaking I returned the compliment , observing an equal silence . 
He then opened his Chest . 
The first thing which He produced was a small wooden Crucifix He sank upon his knees , gazed upon it mournfully , and cast his eyes towards heaven . 
He seemed to be praying devoutly . 
At length He bowed his head respectfully , kissed the Crucifix thrice , and quitted his kneeling posture . 
Round about this He placed various reliques , sculls , thigh bones c I observed , that He disposed them all in the forms of Crosses . 
Lastly He took out a large Bible , and beckoned me to follow him into the Circle . 
The Clock struck 'One' ! As usual I heard the Spectre's steps upon the Staircase But I was not seized with the accustomed shivering . 
I waited her approach with confidence . 
She entered the room , drew near the Circle , and stopped . 
The Stranger muttered some words , to me unintelligible . 
'Darest Thou disobey Me ? He spoke in a commanding tone , and drew the sable band from his forehead . 
When I recovered myself , I perceived that the burning Cross had produced an effect no less violent upon the Spectre . 
Her countenance expressed reverence , and horror , and her visionary limbs were shaken by fear . 
None but this Youth has the right of consigning them to the Grave . 
Then let thirty Masses be said for the repose of my Spirit , and I trouble this world no more . 
Now let me depart ! Those flames are scorching ! He let the hand drop slowly which held the Crucifix , and which till then He had pointed towards her . 
The apparition bowed her head , and her form melted into air . 
The Exorciser led me out of the Circle . 
He replaced the Bible c . 
in the Chest , and then addressed himself to me , who stood near him speechless from astonishment . 
'Don Raymond , you have heard the conditions on which repose is promised you . 
Be it your business to fulfil them to the letter . 
For me nothing more remains than to clear up the darkness still spread over the Spectre's History , and inform you that when living , Beatrice bore the name of las Cisternas . 
She was the great Aunt of your Grandfather In quality of your relation , her ashes demand respect from you , though the enormity of her crimes must excite your abhorrence . 
'Beatrice de las Cisternas took the veil at an early age , not by her own choice , but at the express command of her Parents . 
This opportunity was at length presented , after many obstacles which only added new force to her desires . 
She contrived to elope from the Convent , and fled to Germany with the Baron Lindenberg . 
She lived at his Castle several months as his avowed Concubine All Bavaria was scandalized by her impudent and abandoned conduct . 
Her feasts vied in luxury with Cleopatra's , and Lindenberg became the Theatre of the most unbridled debauchery . 
'Possessed of a character so depraved , She did not long confine her affections to one object . 
Soon after her arrival at the Castle , the Baron's younger Brother attracted her notice by his strong marked features , gigantic Stature , and Herculean limbs . 
She was not of an humour to keep her inclinations long unknown But She found in Otto von Lindenberg her equal in depravity . 
He returned her passion just sufficiently to increase it and when He had worked it up to the desired pitch , He fixed the price of his love at his Brother's murder . 
The Wretch consented to this horrible agreement . 
A night was pitched upon for perpetrating the deed . 
The Baron slept in the arms of his perfidious Mistress , when the Castle Bell struck 'One . 
Immediately Beatrice drew a dagger from underneath the pillow , and plunged it in her Paramour's heart . 
The Baron uttered a single dreadful groan , and expired . 
The Murderess quitted her bed hastily , took a Lamp in one hand , in the other the bloody dagger , and bent her course towards the cavern . 
The Porter dared not to refuse opening the Gates to one more dreaded in the Castle than its Master . 
Beatrice reached Lindenberg Hole unopposed , where according to promise She found Otto waiting for her . 
He received and listened to her narrative with transport But ere She had time to ask why He came unaccompanied , He convinced her that He wished for no witnesses to their interview . 
'Otto now succeeded to the Barony of Lindenberg . 
The murder was attributed solely to the fugitive Nun , and no one suspected him to have persuaded her to the action . 
But though his crime was unpunished by Man , God's justice permitted him not to enjoy in peace his blood stained honours . 
Her bones lying still unburied in the Cave , the restless soul of Beatrice continued to inhabit the Castle . 
His death did not put an end to the nocturnal riots . 
The bones of Beatrice continued to lie unburied , and her Ghost continued to haunt the Castle . 
'The domains of Lindenberg now fell to a distant Relation . 
, the new Baron called to his assistance a celebrated Exorciser . 
That Office was reserved for you , and till your coming , her Ghost was doomed to wander about the Castle and lament the crime which She had there committed . 
However , the Exorciser obliged her to silence during his lifetime . 
So long as He existed , the haunted chamber was shut up , and the Spectre was invisible . 
'She was doomed to suffer during the space of a Century . 
Nothing now remains but to consign to the Grave the ashes of Beatrice . 
'Stay yet one moment ! said I 'You have satisfied my curiosity with regard to the Spectre , but you leave me in prey to yet greater respecting yourself . 
Deign to inform me , to whom I am under such real obligations . 
You mention circumstances long past , and persons long dead You were personally acquainted with the Exorciser , who by your own account has been deceased near a Century . 
At length overcome by my entreaties , He consented to clear up the whole , on condition that I would defer his explanation till the next day . 
With this request I was obliged to comply , and He left me . 
In the Morning my first care was to enquire after the mysterious Stranger . 
Conceive my disappointment when informed that He had already quitted Ratisbon . 
I dispatched messengers in pursuit of him but in vain . 
No traces of the Fugitive were discovered . 
Since that moment I never have heard any more of him , and 'tis most probable that I never shall . 
From this period I recovered my health so rapidly as to astonish my Physicians . 
The Bleeding Nun appeared no more , and I was soon able to set out for Lindenberg . 
The Baron received me with open arms . 
I confided to him the sequel of my adventure and He was not a little pleased to find that his Mansion would be no longer troubled with the Phantom's quiennial visits . 
I was sorry to perceive that absence had not weakened Donna Rodolpha's imprudent passion . 
In a private conversation which I had with her during my short stay at the Castle , She renewed her attempts to persuade me to return her affection . 
Regarding her as the primary cause of all my sufferings , I entertained for her no other sentiment than disgust . 
The Skeleton of Beatrice was found in the place which She had mentioned . 
I departed , followed by Donna Rodolpha's menaces that my contempt should not be long unpunished . 
I now bent my course towards Spain with all diligence . 
Lucas with my Baggage had joined me during my abode at Lindenberg . 
I arrived in my native Country without any accident , and immediately proceeded to my Father's Castle in Andalusia . 
The remains of Beatrice were deposited in the family vault , all due ceremonies performed , and the number of Masses said which She had required . 
Nothing now hindered me from employing all my endeavours to discover the retreat of Agnes . 
Theodore , according to promise , had returned to Strasbourg , where He found his Grandfather dead , and Marguerite in possession of his fortune . 
All her persuations to remain with her were fruitless He quitted her a second time , and followed me to Madrid . 
He exerted himself to the utmost in forwarding my search But our united endeavours were unattended by success . 
The retreat , which concealed Agnes remained an impenetrable mystery , and I began to abandon all hopes of recovering her . 
About eight months ago I was returning to my Hotel in a melancholy humour , having past the evening at the Play House . 
The Night was dark , and I was unaccompanied . 
I sprang back a few paces , drew my sword , and threw my cloak over my left arm . 
The obscurity of the night was in my favour . 
For the most part the blows of the Assassins , being aimed at random , failed to touch me . 
He ran towards me with his sword drawn Several Domestics followed him with torches . 
His arrival made the combat equal Yet would not the Bravoes abandon their design till the Servants were on the point of joining us . 
They then fled away , and we lost them in the obscurity . 
The Stranger now addressed himself to me with politeness , and enquired whether I was wounded . 
He added that his House was hard by , and begged me to accompany him thither . 
His manner was so earnest , that I could not reject his offer , and leaning upon his arm , a few minutes brought me to the Porch of a magnificent Hotel . 
My Deliverer then desired the family Surgeon to be summoned without delay . 
I was seated upon a Sopha in a noble apartment and my wounds being examined , they were declared to be very slight . 
This latter sensation was not a little weakened , when in answer to my seemingly indifferent questions He told me that his Daughter had really taken the veil . 
Buoyed up with this hope I calmed the uneasiness of my bosom and I redoubled my endeavours to appear grateful for the attention and pleased with the society of Don Gaston . 
A Domestic now entered the room , and informed me that the Bravo whom I had wounded discovered some signs of life . 
I desired that He might be carried to my Father's Hotel , and that as soon as He recovered his voice , I would examine him respecting his reasons for attempting my life . 
Don Gaston's delicacy would not permit his urging the point any longer , and in consequence the Bravo was conveyed to my Hotel . 
The next Morning I took leave of my Host , who was to return to the Duke on the same day . 
My wounds had been so trifling that , except being obliged to wear my arm in a sling for a short time , I felt no inconvenience from the night's adventure . 
All my thoughts were now bent upon getting to the speech of my lovely Nun . 
Theodore set himself to work , and for this time with better success . 
He attacked the Gardener of St . 
The plan was put into execution without delay . 
Disguised in a common habit , and a black patch covering one of my eyes , I was presented to the Lady Prioress , who condescended to approve of the Gardener's choice . 
I immediately entered upon my employment . 
Botany having been a favourite study with me , I was by no means at a loss in my new station . 
For some days I continued to work in the Convent Garden without meeting the Object of my disguise On the fourth Morning I was more successful . 
I heard the voice of Agnes , and was speeding towards the sound , when the sight of the Domina stopped me . 
I drew back with caution , and concealed myself behind a thick clump of Trees . 
The Prioress advanced and seated herself with Agnes on a Bench at no great distance . 
Agnes replied in so low a voice that I could not distinguish her words , but I perceived that She used terms of gentleness and submission . 
The conversation was interrupted by the arrival of a young Pensioner who informed the Domina that She was waited for in the Parlour . 
The old Lady rose , kissed the cheek of Agnes , and retired . 
Agnes spoke much to her in praise of somebody whom I could not make out , but her Auditor seemed highly delighted , and interested by the conversation . 
The Nun showed her several letters the Other perused them with evident pleasure , obtained permission to copy them , and withdrew for that purpose to my great satisfaction . 
No sooner was She out of sight , than I quitted my concealment . 
Fearing to alarm my lovely Mistress , I drew near her gently , intending to discover myself by degrees . 
But who for a moment can deceive the eyes of love ? She raised her head at my approach , and recognised me in spite of my disguise at a single glance . 
She rose hastily from her seat with an exclamation of surprize , and attempted to retire But I followed her , detained her , and entreated to be heard . 
Persuaded of my falsehood She refused to listen to me , and ordered me positively to quit the Garden . 
It was now my turn to refuse . 
I protested that however dangerous might be the consequences , I would not leave her till She had heard my justification . 
Having obtained this promise I released her hand , and She fled back with rapidity towards the Convent . 
I communicated my success to my Ally , the old Gardener He pointed out an hiding place where I might shelter myself till night without fear of a discovery . 
Thither I betook myself at the hour when I ought to have retired with my supposed Master , and waited impatiently for the appointed time . 
The chillness of the night was in my favour , since it kept the other Nuns confined to their Cells . 
Agnes alone was insensible of the inclemency of the Air , and before eleven joined me at the spot which had witnessed our former interview . 
Secure from interruption , I related to her the true cause of my disappearing on the fatal fifth of May . 
'But now it is too late to repine ! She added 'The die is thrown I have pronounced my vows , and dedicated myself to the service of heaven . 
I am sensible , how ill I am calculated for a Convent . 
Agnes replied that since I encouraged such an hope , I could know but little of her Father . 
Liberal and kind in every other respect , Superstition formed the only stain upon his character . 
Were I to quit the Convent , He never would forgive me nor can I think that on his deathbed He would leave me his curse , without shuddering at the very idea . 
Besides , I am conscious myself , that my vows are binding Wilfully did I contract my engagement with heaven I cannot break it without a crime . 
Then banish from your mind the idea of our being ever united . 
I am devoted to religion and however I may grieve at our separation , I would oppose obstacles myself , to what I feel would render me guilty . 
I strove to overrule these ill grounded scruples We were still disputing upon the subject , when the Convent Bell summoned the Nuns to Matins . 
These meetings continued for several Weeks uninterrupted and 'tis now , Lorenzo , that I must implore your indulgence . 
'Scarcely was the first burst of passion past when Agnes , recovering herself , started from my arms with horror . 
She called me infamous Seducer , loaded me with the bitterest reproaches , and beat her bosom in all the wildness of delirium . 
Ashamed of my imprudence , I with difficulty found words to excuse myself . 
I endeavoured to console her I threw myself at her feet , and entreated her forgiveness . 
She forced her hand from me , which I had taken , and would have prest to my lips . 
I endeavoured to detain her But She disengaged herself from me with violence , and took refuge in the Convent . 
I retired , filled with confusion and inquietude . 
The next morning I failed not as usual to appear in the Garden but Agnes was no where to be seen . 
At night I waited for her at the place where we generally met I found no better success . 
Several days and nights passed away in the same manner . 
She looked upon me for a moment , but instantly turned her head away . 
I waited her return But She passed on to the Convent without paying any attention to me , or the penitent looks with which I implored her forgiveness . 
As soon as the Nuns were retired , the old Gardener joined me with a sorrowful air . 
'Segnor , said He , 'it grieves me to say , that I can be no longer of use to you . 
The Lady whom you used to meet has just assured me that if I admitted you again into the Garden , She would discover the whole business to the Lady Prioress . 
Excuse me then for informing you that I can favour your disguise no longer . 
Fruitless were my attempts to conquer his resolution . 
He denied me all future entrance into the Garden , and Agnes persevered in neither letting me see or hear from her . 
In about a fortnight after , a violent illness which had seized my Father obliged me to set out for Andalusia . 
I hastened thither , and as I imagined , found the Marquis at the point of death . 
Within these four days I returned to Madrid , and on arriving at my Hotel , I there found this letter waiting for me . 
'Excessive was my joy at reading this intelligence so earnestly desired , so little expected . 
My plan was soon arranged . 
Fortunately I had afterwards neglected to stop his proceedings . 
Not long since I received a letter from him , stating that He expected daily to receive the order from the Court of Rome . 
Upon this I would willingly have relyed But the Cardinal wrote me word , that I must find some means of conveying Agnes out of the Convent , unknown to the Prioress . 
He represented her as a Woman of a violent and revengeful character , capable of proceeding to the greatest extremities . 
It was therefore to be feared , lest by confining Agnes in the Convent She should frustrate my hopes , and render the Pope's mandate unavailing . 
Influenced by this consideration , I resolved to carry off my Mistress , and conceal her till the arrival of the expected Bull in the Cardinal Duke's Estate . 
He approved of my design , and profest himself ready to give a shelter to the Fugitive . 
I next caused the new Gardener of St . 
Clare to be seized privately , and confined in my Hotel . 
By this means I became Master of the Key to the Garden door , and I had now nothing more to do than prepare Agnes for the elopement . 
This was done by the letter , which you saw me deliver this Evening . 
You have now , Lorenzo , heard the whole of my long narrative . 
Here the Marquis concluded his adventures . 
Lorenzo , before He could determine on his reply , past some moments in reflection . 
At length He broke silence . 
The temptation was too great to be resisted . 
'Tis the superstition of my Relations which has occasioned these misfortunes , and they are more the Offenders than yourself and Agnes . 
What has past between you cannot be recalled , but may yet be repaired by uniting you to my Sister . 
You have ever been , you still continue to be , my dearest and indeed my only Friend . 
I feel for Agnes the truest affection , and there is no one on whom I would bestow her more willingly than on yourself . 
I will accompany you tomorrow night , and conduct her myself to the House of the Cardinal . 
My presence will be a sanction for her conduct , and prevent her incurring blame by her flight from the Convent . 
The Marquis thanked him in terms by no means deficient in gratitude . 
Lorenzo then informed him that He had nothing more to apprehend from Donna Rodolpha's enmity . 
Five Months had already elapsed since , in an excess of passion , She broke a blood vessel and expired in the course of a few hours . 
He then proceeded to mention the interests of Antonia . 
Don Raymond assured his friend that He was not mistaken in supposing him ready to acknowledge his Sister in law and her amiable Daughter . 
This the Youth promised to do , as soon as her abode should be known to him He then took leave of his future Brother , and returned to the Palace de Medina . 
The day was already on the point of breaking when the Marquis retired to his chamber . 
Conscious that his narrative would take up some hours , and wishing to secure himself from interruption on returning to the Hotel , He ordered his Attendants not to sit upfor him . 
Consequently , He was somewhat surprised on entering his Antiroom , to find Theodore established there . 
The Page sat near a Table with a pen in his hand , and was so totally occupied by his employment that He perceived not his Lord's approach . 
The Marquis stopped to observe him . 
Theodore wrote a few lines , then paused , and scratched out a part of the writing Then wrote again , smiled , and seemed highly pleased with what He had been about . 
At last He threw down his pen , sprang from his chair , and clapped his hands together joyfully . 
'There it is ! cried He aloud 'Now they are charming ! His transports were interrupted by a laugh from the Marquis , who suspected the nature of his employment . 
'What is so charming , Theodore ? The Youth started , and looked round . 
He blushed , ran to the Table , seized the paper on which He had been writing , and concealed it in confusion . 
'Oh ! my Lord , I knew not that you were so near me . 
Can I be of use to you ? Lucas is already gone to bed . 
'I shall follow his example when I have given my opinion of your verses . 
'My verses , my Lord ? 'Nay , I am sure that you have been writing some , for nothing else could have kept you awake till this time of the morning . 
Where are they , Theodore ? I shall like to see your composition . 
Theodore's cheeks glowed with still deeper crimson He longed to show his poetry , but first chose to be pressed for it . 
'Indeed , my Lord , they are not worthy your attention . 
'Not these verses , which you just now declared to be so charming ? Come , come , let me see whether our opinions are the same . 
I promise that you shall find in me an indulgent Critic . 
The Boy produced his paper with seeming reluctance but the satisfaction which sparkled in his dark expressive eyes betrayed the vanity of his little bosom . 
The Marquis smiled while He observed the emotions of an heart as yet but little skilled in veiling its sentiments . 
He seated himself upon a Sopha Theodore , while Hope and fear contended on his anxious countenance , waited with inquietude for his Master's decision , while the Marquis read the following lines . 
'Then fly , and curse mine eyes no more ! Fly from my peaceful Cottage door ! No day , no hour , no moment shalt Thou stay . 
Soon as that name was heard , the Woods Shook off their snows The melting floods Broke their cold chains , and Winter fled away . 
Once more the earth was deckt with flowers Mild Zephyrs breathed through blooming bowers High towered the glorious Sun , and poured the blaze of day . 
The Marquis returned the paper with a smile of encouragement . 
'Your little poem pleases me much , said He 'However , you must not count my opinion for anything . 
But I wander from my subject . 
I was going to say that you cannot employ your time worse than in making verses . 
A bad composition carries with it its own punishment , contempt and ridicule . 
A good one excites envy , and entails upon its Author a thousand mortifications . 
They maliciously rake out from obscurity every little circumstance which may throw ridicule upon his private character or conduct , and aim at wounding the Man , since They cannot hurt the Writer . 
In short , to enter the lists of literature is wilfully to expose yourself to the arrows of neglect , ridicule , envy , and disappointment . 
But I am conscious that all these sage observations are thrown away upon you . 
Authorship is a mania to conquer which no reasons are sufficiently strong and you might as easily persuade me not to love , as I persuade you not to write . 
'Then , my Lord , you do not think these lines tolerable ? said Theodore with an humble and dejected air . 
As I said before , they have pleased me much But my regard for you makes me partial , and Others might judge them less favourably . 
I must still remark that even my prejudice in your favour does not blind me so much as to prevent my observing several faults . 
These faults may occasionally be excused in a work of length But a short Poem must be correct and perfect . 
'All this is true , Segnor But you should consider that I only write for pleasure . 
'Your defects are the less excusable . 
The Marquis rose from the Sopha the Page looked discouraged and melancholy , and this did not escape his Master's observation . 
'However' added He smiling , 'I think that these lines do you no discredit . 
Your versification is tolerably easy , and your ear seems to be just . 
The Youth's countenance immediately cleared up . 
He perceived not the smile , half approving , half ironical , which accompanied the request , and He promised the Copy with great readiness . 
The Marquis withdrew to his chamber , much amused by the instantaneous effect produced upon Theodore's vanity by the conclusion of his Criticism . 
He threw himself upon his Couch Sleep soon stole over him , and his dreams presented him with the most flattering pictures of happiness with Agnes . 
On reaching the Hotel de Medina , Lorenzo's first care was to enquire for Letters . 
He found several waiting for him but that which He sought was not amongst them . 
Leonella had found it impossible to write that evening . 
Elvira received this intelligence with sensations very different from those with which it was communicated . 
She blamed her Sister's imprudence in confiding her history to an absolute Stranger , and expressed her fears lest this inconsiderate step should prejudice the Marquis against her . 
The greatest of her apprehensions She concealed in her own breast . 
She had observed with inquietude that at the mention of Lorenzo , a deep blush spread itself over her Daughter's cheek . 
The timid Antonia dared not to pronounce his name Without knowing wherefore , She felt embarrassed when He was made the subject of discourse , and endeavoured to change the conversation to Ambrosio . 
Elvira perceived the emotions of this young bosom In consequence , She insisted upon Leonella's breaking her promise to the Cavaliers . 
A sigh , which on hearing this order escaped from Antonia , confirmed the wary Mother in her resolution . 
Through this resolution Leonella was determined to break She conceived it to be inspired by envy , and that her Sister dreaded her being elevated above her . 
Without imparting her design to anyone , She took an opportunity of dispatching the following note to Lorenzo It was delivered to him as soon as He woke . 
I know not in what words to inform you how strange a reception my Sister gave your kind wish to visit her . 
She is an odd Woman , with many good points about her But her jealousy of me frequently makes her conceive notions quite unaccountable . 
My strong sense of gratitude for your kind offers of service , and . 
Shall I confess it ? my desire to behold once more the too amiable Don Christoval , will not permit my obeying her injunctions . 
Enquire for Donna Elvira Dalfa , since in compliance with her Father in law's order , my Sister continues to be called by her maiden name . 
At eight this evening you will be sure of finding us But let not a word drop which may raise a suspicion of my having written this letter . 
Should you see the Conde d'Ossorio , tell him . 
I blush while I declare it . 
Tell him that his presence will be but too acceptable to the sympathetic Leonella . 
The latter sentences were written in red ink , to express the blushes of her cheek , while She committed an outrage upon her virgin modesty . 
Lorenzo had no sooner perused this note than He set out in search of Don Christoval . 
Not being able to find him in the course of the day , He proceeded to Donna Elvira's alone , to Leonella's infinite disappointment . 
That reluctance was increased by the changes which his approach produced in Antonia's countenance nor was it by any means abated when the Youth himself appeared . 
The symmetry of his person , animation of his features , and natural elegance of his manners and address , convinced Elvira that such a Guest must be dangerous for her Daughter . 
On his entrance He found Elvira , who was indisposed , reclining upon a Sopha Antonia sat by her embroidery frame , and Leonella , in a pastoral dress , held 'Montemayor's Diana . 
A single glance was sufficient to undeceive him . 
Lorenzo fancied that She must have resembled her Daughter in her youth , and readily excused the imprudence of the late Conde de las Cisternas . 
She desired him to be seated , and immediately resumed her place upon the Sopha . 
Antonia received him with a simple reverence , and continued her work Her cheeks were suffused with crimson , and She strove to conceal her emotion by leaning over her embroidery frame . 
Finding after some time that no sign of his approach was given , She ventured to look round the room , and perceived with vexation that Medina was unaccompanied . 
Impatience would not permit her waiting for an explanation Interrupting Lorenzo , who was delivering Raymond's message , She desired to know what was become of his Friend . 
He , who thought it necessary to maintain himself in her good graces , strove to console her under her disappointment by committing a little violence upon truth . 
Neither did the deceit answer his intention . 
Vexed and disappointed Leonella rose from her seat , and retired in dudgeon to her own apartment . 
Lorenzo hastened to repair the fault , which had injured him in Elvira's opinion . 
This intelligence relieved Elvira from an heavy weight of uneasiness She had now found a Protector for the fatherless Antonia , for whose future fortunes She had suffered the greatest apprehensions . 
She was not sparing of her thanks to him who had interfered so generously in her behalf But still She gave him no invitation to repeat his visit . 
She consented reluctantly to receive him He promised not to abuse her goodness , and quitted the House . 
Antonia was now left alone with her Mother A temporary silence ensued . 
Both wished to speak upon the same subject , but Neither knew how to introduce it . 
At length Elvira began the conversation . 
'That is a charming young Man , Antonia I am much pleased with him . 
Had not Leonella spoken of his readiness to undertake our cause , I should not have known him to be in existence . 
Antonia coloured , but was silent . 
'Perhaps you judge him less favourably than I do . 
In my opinion his figure is pleasing , his conversation sensible , and manners engaging . 
Still He may have struck you differently You may think him disagreeable , and . 
However , if I did not speak of him , it was not that I thought of him the less . 
Come hither to me , my Child . 
Antonia quitted her embroidery frame , threw herself upon her knees by the Sopha , and hid her face in her Mother's lap . 
'Fear not , my sweet Girl ! Consider me equally as your Friend and Parent , and apprehend no reproof from me . 
I have read the emotions of your bosom you are yet ill skilled in concealing them , and they could not escape my attentive eye . 
This Lorenzo is dangerous to your repose He has already made an impression upon your heart . 
Then struggle with your affection Whatever pains it may cost you , strive to conquer it . 
Antonia kissed her hand , and promised implicit obedience . 
'To prevent your passion from growing stronger , it will be needful to prohibit Lorenzo's visits . 
The next time that I see him , I will honestly avow to him the embarrassment which his presence occasions . 
How say you , my Child ? Is not this measure necessary ? Antonia subscribed to every thing without hesitation , though not without regret . 
Her Mother kissed her affectionately , and retired to bed . 
Antonia followed her example , and vowed so frequently never more to think of Lorenzo , that till Sleep closed her eyes She thought of nothing else . 
While this was passing at Elvira's , Lorenzo hastened to rejoin the Marquis . 
Every thing was ready for the second elopement of Agnes and at twelve the two Friends with a Coach and four were at the Garden wall of the Convent . 
Don Raymond drew out his Key , and unlocked the door . 
They entered , and waited for some time in expectation of being joined by Agnes . 
At length the Marquis grew impatient Beginning to fear that his second attempt would succeed no better than the first , He proposed to reconnoitre the Convent . 
The Friends advanced towards it . 
Every thing was still and dark . 
She took care therefore to give the Lover of Agnes no cause to suppose that his design was discovered , and his Mistress on the point of suffering the punishment of her fault . 
She contented herself with confining Agnes closely As to the Lover , She left him at liberty to pursue his designs . 
What She had expected was the result . 
The next morning Lorenzo went to the Convent , and requested to see his Sister . 
Lorenzo did not credit a syllable of this account He insisted upon seeing his Sister If She was unable to come to the Grate , He desired to be admitted to her Cell . 
With this answer Lorenzo was obliged to retire , unsatisfied and trembling for his Sister's safety . 
He returned the next morning at an early hour . 
'Agnes was worse The Physician had pronounced her to be in imminent danger She was ordered to remain quiet , and it was utterly impossible for her to receive her Brother's visit . 
Lorenzo stormed at this answer , but there was no resource . 
He raved , He entreated , He threatened No means were left untried to obtain a sight of Agnes . 
His endeavours were as fruitless as those of the day before , and He returned in despair to the Marquis . 
Clare , with whom He had formed an acquaintance But She was too much upon her guard , and He gained from her no intelligence . 
The Marquis was almost distracted , and Lorenzo felt scarcely less inquietude . 
Regularly every day did Lorenzo visit the Convent As regularly was He informed that his Sister rather grew worse than better . 
He was still uncertain what steps He ought to take , when the Marquis received a letter from the Cardinal Duke of Lerma . 
It inclosed the Pope's expected Bull , ordering that Agnes should be released from her vows , and restored to her Relations . 
At the same hour as on his former visit He repaired to Donna Elvira's She had given orders for his admission . 
As soon as He was announced , her Daughter retired with Leonella , and when He entered the chamber , He found the Lady of the House alone . 
She received him with less distance than before , and desired him to place himself near her upon the Sopha . 
She then without losing time opened her business , as had been agreed between herself and Antonia . 
'You must not think me ungrateful , Don Lorenzo , or forgetful how essential are the services which you have rendered me with the Marquis . 
My health is declining God only knows how soon I may be summoned before his Throne . 
My Daughter will be left without Parents , and should She lose the protection of the Cisternas family , without Friends . 
She is young and artless , uninstructed in the world's perfidy , and with charms sufficient to render her an object of seduction . 
You are amiable , Don Lorenzo Antonia has a susceptible , a loving heart , and is grateful for the favours conferred upon us by your interference with the Marquis . 
Pardon me when I avow my terrors , and let my frankness plead in my excuse . 
Believe me when I assure you that I lament the necessity of rejecting your acquaintance But there is no remedy , and Antonia's interest obliges me to beg you to forbear your visits . 
By complying with my request , you will increase the esteem which I already feel for you , and of which everything convinces me that you are truly deserving . 
'Your frankness charms me , replied Lorenzo 'You shall find that in your favourable opinion of me you were not deceived . 
Yet I hope that the reasons , now in my power to allege , will persuade you to withdraw a request which I cannot obey without infinite reluctance . 
'Tis true , I am not rich myself My Father's death has left me but little in my own possession But my expectations justify my pretending to the Conde de las Cisternas' Daughter . 
He was proceeding , but Elvira interrupted him . 
'Ah ! Don Lorenzo , you forget in that pompous title the meanness of my origin . 
You forget that I have now past fourteen years in Spain , disavowed by my Husband's family , and existing upon a stipend barely sufficient for the support and education of my Daughter . 
Nay , I have even been neglected by most of my own Relations , who out of envy affect to doubt the reality of my marriage . 
My allowance being discontinued at my Father in law's death , I was reduced to the very brink of want . 
In this situation I was found by my Sister , who amongst all her foibles possesses a warm , generous , and affectionate heart . 
She aided me with the little fortune which my Father left her , persuaded me to visit Madrid , and has supported my Child and myself since our quitting Murcia . 
Reflect upon the difference between such a situation , and that of the Nephew and Heir of the potent Duke of Medina . 
'Pardon me , Segnora You are misinformed if you suppose the Duke of Medina to resemble the generality of Men . 
His sentiments are liberal and disinterested He loves me well and I have no reason to dread his forbidding the marriage when He perceives that my happiness depends upon Antonia . 
'You are young and eager It is natural for you to entertain such ideas . 
But Experience has taught me to my cost that curses accompany an unequal alliance . 
I married the Conde de las Cisternas in opposition to the will of his Relations Many an heart pang has punished me for the imprudent step . 
Whereever we bent our course , a Father's execration pursued Gonzalvo . 
Poverty overtook us , and no Friend was near to relieve our wants . 
Still our mutual affection existed , but alas ! not without interruption . 
Accustomed to wealth and ease , ill could my Husband support the transition to distress and indigence . 
He looked back with repining to the comforts which He once enjoyed . 
He would throw himself on the ground , implore my forgiveness in the most frantic terms , and load himself with curses for being the Murderer of my repose . 
Taught by experience that an union contracted against the inclinations of families on either side must be unfortunate , I will save my Daughter from those miseries which I have suffered . 
Without your Uncle's consent , while I live , She never shall be yours . 
Undoubtedly He will disapprove of the union His power is immense , and Antonia shall not be exposed to his anger and persecution . 
'His persecution ? How easily may that be avoided ! Let the worst happen , it is but quitting Spain . 
'Ah ! Youth , this is a fond romantic vision . 
He fancied that He could leave Spain without regret But the moment of parting undeceived him . 
Her voice faltered , and She concealed her face with her handkerchief . 
After a short silence She rose from the Sopha , and proceeded . 
'Excuse my quitting you for a few moments The remembrance of what I have suffered has much agitated me , and I need to be alone . 
Till I return peruse these lines . 
After my Husband's death I found them among his papers Had I known sooner that He entertained such sentiments , Grief would have killed me . 
He wrote these verses on his voyage to Cuba , when his mind was clouded by sorrow , and He forgot that He had a Wife and Children . 
Read them , Don Lorenzo They will give you some idea of the feelings of a banished Man ! Elvira put a paper into Lorenzo's hand , and retired from the chamber . 
The Youth examined the contents , and found them to be as follows . 
'I have nothing more to say , my Lord , said She 'You have heard my apprehensions , and my reasons for begging you not to repeat your visits . 
I have thrown myself in full confidence upon your honour I am certain that you will not prove my opinion of you to have been too favourable . 
'But one question more , Segnora , and I leave you . 
You have made an impression upon her young heart , which gives me the most serious alarm To prevent that impression from growing stronger , I am obliged to decline your acquaintance . 
For me , you may be sure that I should rejoice at establishing my Child so advantageously . 
The Marquis de las Cisternas is totally unknown to me He will marry His Lady may look upon Antonia with an eye of displeasure , and deprive her of her only Friend . 
Should the Duke , your Uncle , give his consent , you need not doubt obtaining mine , and my Daughter's But without his , hope not for ours . 
Lorenzo promised reluctantly to conform to this decree But He added that He hoped soon to obtain that consent which would give him a claim to the renewal of their acquaintance . 
He then explained to her why the Marquis had not called in person , and made no scruple of confiding to her his Sister's History . 
The Lady shook her head . 
'I tremble for your Sister , said She 'I have heard many traits of the Domina of St . 
Clare's character , from a Friend who was educated in the same Convent with her . 
She reported her to be haughty , inflexible , superstitious , and revengeful . 
I have since heard that She is infatuated with the idea of rendering her Convent the most regular in Madrid , and never forgave those whose imprudence threw upon it the slightest stain . 
Though naturally violent and severe , when her interests require it , She well knows how to assume an appearance of benignity . 
Lorenzo now rose to take leave . 
Elvira gave him her hand at parting , which He kissed respectfully and telling her that He soon hoped for the permission to salute that of Antonia , He returned to his Hotel . 
The Lady was perfectly satisfied with the conversation which had past between them . 
She looked forward with satisfaction to the prospect of his becoming her Son in law But Prudence bad her conceal from her Daughter's knowledge the flattering hopes which Herself now ventured to entertain . 
Scarcely was it day , and already Lorenzo was at the Convent of St . 
Clare , furnished with the necessary mandate . 
The Nuns were at Matins . 
He waited impatiently for the conclusion of the service , and at length the Prioress appeared at the Parlour Grate . 
Not a word of all this was believed by Lorenzo , any more than He credited the expressions of grief and affection for Agnes , with which this account was interlarded . 
The Prioress received the paper with an air of humility But no sooner had her eye glanced over the contents , than her resentment baffled all the efforts of Hypocrisy . 
A deep crimson spread itself over her face , and She darted upon Lorenzo looks of rage and menace . 
'This order is positive , said She in a voice of anger , which She in vain strove to disguise 'Willingly would I obey it But unfortunately it is out of my power . 
Lorenzo interrupted her by an exclamation of surprize . 
'I repeat it , Segnor to obey this order is totally out of my power . 
From tenderness to a Brother's feelings , I would have communicated the sad event to you by degrees , and have prepared you to hear it with fortitude . 
Lorenzo started back with horror , and turned pale . 
A moment's recollection convinced him that this assertion must be false , and it restored him to himself . 
'You deceive me ! said He passionately 'But five minutes past since you assured me that though ill She was still alive . 
Produce her this instant ! See her I must and will , and every attempt to keep her from me will be unavailing . 
'You forget yourself , Segnor You owe respect to my age as well as my profession . 
Your Sister is no more . 
If I at first concealed her death , it was from dreading lest an event so unexpected should produce on you too violent an effect . 
In truth , I am but ill repaid for my attention . 
Clare But She has forfeited my affection in a manner yet more culpable . 
Her crimes were great , and when you know the cause of her death , you will doubtless rejoice , Don Lorenzo , that such a Wretch is no longer in existence . 
She was taken ill on Thursday last on returning from confession in the Capuchin Chapel . 
I can say nothing more , except repeat my inability of obeying the orders of his Holiness . 
Agnes is no more , and to convince you that what I say is true , I swear by our blessed Saviour , that three days have past since She was buried . 
Here She kissed a small crucifix which hung at her girdle . 
She then rose from her chair , and quitted the Parlour . 
As She withdrew , She cast upon Lorenzo a scornful smile . 
'Farewell , Segnor , said She 'I know no remedy for this accident I fear that even a second Bull from the Pope will not procure your Sister's resurrection . 
Lorenzo also retired , penetrated with affliction But Don Raymond's at the news of this event amounted to Madness . 
He would not be convinced that Agnes was really dead , and continued to insist that the Walls of St . 
On his part , Medina gave up the idea of ever seeing his Sister more Yet He believed that She had been taken off by unfair means . 
Under this persuasion , He encouraged Don Raymond's researches , determined , should He discover the least warrant for his suspicions , to take a severe vengeance upon the unfeeling Prioress . 
The loss of his Sister affected him sincerely Nor was it the least cause of his distress that propriety obliged him for some time to defer mentioning Antonia to the Duke . 
In the meanwhile his emissaries constantly surrounded Elvira's Door . 
Thus two long Months passed away . 
Still no information was procured of Agnes All but the Marquis credited her death and now Lorenzo determined to disclose his sentiments to his Uncle . 
He had already dropt some hints of his intention to marry They had been as favourably received as He could expect , and He harboured no doubt of the success of his application . 
CHAPTER III While in each other's arms entranced They lay , They blessed the night , and curst the coming day . 
The burst of transport was past Ambrosio's lust was satisfied Pleasure fled , and Shame usurped her seat in his bosom . 
Confused and terrified at his weakness , He drew himself from Matilda's arms . 
His perjury presented itself before him He reflected on the scene which had just been acted , and trembled at the consequences of a discovery . 
He looked forward with horror His heart was despondent , and became the abode of satiety and disgust . 
He avoided the eyes of his Partner in frailty A melancholy silence prevailed , during which Both seemed busied with disagreable reflections . 
Matilda was the first to break it . 
She took his hand gently , and pressed it to her burning lips . 
'Ambrosio ! She murmured in a soft and trembling voice . 
The Abbot started at the sound . 
He turned his eyes upon Matilda's They were filled with tears Her cheeks were covered with blushes , and her supplicating looks seemed to solicit his compassion . 
Her bosom panted She twined her arms voluptuously round him , drew him towards her , and glewed her lips to his . 
No longer repressed by the sense of shame , He gave a loose to his intemperate appetites . 
Intoxicated with pleasure , the Monk rose from the Syren's luxurious Couch . 
He no longer reflected with shame upon his incontinence , or dreaded the vengeance of offended heaven . 
His only fear was lest Death should rob him of enjoyments , for which his long Fast had only given a keener edge to his appetite . 
Matilda was still under the influence of poison , and the voluptuous Monk trembled less for his Preserver's life than his Concubine's . 
Deprived of her , He would not easily find another Mistress with whom He could indulge his passions so fully , and so safely . 
He therefore pressed her with earnestness to use the means of preservation which She had declared to be in her possession . 
'Yes ! replied Matilda 'Since you have made me feel that Life is valuable , I will rescue mine at any rate . 
No dangers shall appall me I will look upon the consequences of my action boldly , nor shudder at the horrors which they present . 
I will think my sacrifice scarcely worthy to purchase your possession , and remember that a moment past in your arms in this world o'er pays an age of punishment in the next . 
But before I take this step , Ambrosio , give me your solemn oath never to enquire by what means I shall preserve myself . 
He did so in a manner the most binding . 
'I thank you , my Beloved . 
Clare ? I have not the Key , but can easily procure it . 
'You have only this to do . 
Admit me into the burying ground at midnight Watch while I descend into the vaults of St . 
Clare , lest some prying eye should observe my actions Leave me there alone for an hour , and that life is safe which I dedicate to your pleasures . 
To prevent creating suspicion , do not visit me during the day . 
Remember the Key , and that I expect you before twelve . 
Hark ! I hear steps approaching ! Leave me I will pretend to sleep . 
The Friar obeyed , and left the Cell . 
As He opened the door , Father Pablos made his appearance . 
'I come , said the Latter , 'to enquire after the health of my young Patient . 
'Hush ! replied Ambrosio , laying his finger upon his lip 'Speak softly I am just come from him . 
He has fallen into a profound slumber , which doubtless will be of service to him . 
Do not disturb him at present , for He wishes to repose . 
Father Pablos obeyed , and hearing the Bell ring , accompanied the Abbot to Matins . 
Ambrosio felt embarrassed as He entered the Chapel . 
Guilt was new to him , and He fancied that every eye could read the transactions of the night upon his countenance . 
He strove to pray His bosom no longer glowed with devotion His thoughts insensibly wandered to Matilda's secret charms . 
But what He wanted in purity of heart , He supplied by exterior sanctity . 
The better to cloak his transgression , He redoubled his pretensions to the semblance of virtue , and never appeared more devoted to Heaven as since He had broken through his engagements . 
The Matins concluded , Ambrosio retired to his Cell . 
The pleasures which He had just tasted for the first time were still impressed upon his mind . 
His brain was bewildered , and presented a confused Chaos of remorse , voluptuousness , inquietude , and fear . 
He looked back with regret to that peace of soul , that security of virtue , which till then had been his portion . 
He had indulged in excesses whose very idea but four and twenty hours before He had recoiled at with horror . 
Conscience painted to him in glaring colours his perjury and weakness Apprehension magnified to him the horrors of punishment , and He already fancied himself in the prisons of the Inquisition . 
To these tormenting ideas succeeded Matilda's beauty , and those delicious lessons which , once learnt , can never be forgotten . 
A single glance thrown upon these reconciled him with himself . 
He considered the pleasures of the former night to have been purchased at an easy price by the sacrifice of innocence and honour . 
He determined at all events to continue his commerce with Matilda , and called every argument to his aid which might confirm his resolution . 
Once decided upon his future conduct , his mind became more easy . 
He threw himself upon his bed , and strove by sleeping to recruit his strength exhausted by his nocturnal excesses . 
He awoke refreshed , and eager for a repetition of his pleasures . 
Obedient to Matilda's order , He visited not her Cell during the day . 
With this opinion the Abbot agreed , and affected to lament the untimely fate of a Youth , whose talents had appeared so promising . 
Ambrosio had taken care to procure from the Porter the Key of the low door opening into the Cemetery . 
Furnished with this , when all was silent in the Monastery , He quitted his Cell , and hastened to Matilda's . 
She had left her bed , and was drest before his arrival . 
'I have been expecting you with impatience , said She 'My life depends upon these moments . 
Have you the Key ? 'I have . 
'Away then to the garden . 
We have no time to lose . 
Follow me ! She took a small covered Basket from the Table . 
Bearing this in one hand , and the Lamp , which was flaming upon the Hearth , in the other , She hastened from the Cell . 
Both maintained a profound silence . 
She moved on with quick but cautious steps , passed through the Cloisters , and reached the Western side of the Garden . 
Her eyes flashed with a fire and wildness which impressed the Monk at once with awe and horror . 
A determined desperate courage reigned upon her brow . 
She gave the Lamp to Ambrosio Then taking from him the Key , She unlocked the low Door , and entered the Cemetery . 
It was a vast and spacious Square planted with yew trees Half of it belonged to the Abbey The other half was the property of the Sisterhood of St . 
Clare , and was protected by a roof of Stone . 
The Division was marked by an iron railing , the wicket of which was generally left unlocked . 
Thither Matilda bent her course . 
She opened the wicket and sought for the door leading to the subterraneous Vaults , where reposed the mouldering Bodies of the Votaries of St . 
The night was perfectly dark Neither Moon or Stars were visible . 
Luckily there was not a breath of Wind , and the Friar bore his Lamp in full security By the assistance of its beams , the door of the Sepulchre was soon discovered . 
It was sunk within the hollow of a wall , and almost concealed by thick festoons of ivy hanging over it . 
Three steps of rough hewn Stone conducted to it , and Matilda was on the point of descending them when She suddenly started back . 
'There are People in the Vaults ! She whispered to the Monk 'Conceal yourself till they are past . 
She took refuge behind a lofty and magnificent Tomb , erected in honour of the Convent's Foundress . 
Ambrosio followed her example , carefully hiding his Lamp lest its beams should betray them . 
But a few moments had elapsed when the Door was pushed open leading to the subterraneous Caverns . 
Rays of light proceeded up the Staircase They enabled the concealed Spectators to observe two Females drest in religious habits , who seemed engaged in earnest conversation . 
The Abbot had no difficulty to recognize the Prioress of St . 
Clare in the first , and one of the elder Nuns in her Companion . 
'Every thing is prepared , said the Prioress 'Her fate shall be decided tomorrow . 
All her tears and sighs will be unavailing . 
Ursula will espouse her cause most warmly . 
In truth , She merits to have Friends and I wish I could prevail upon you to consider her youth , and her peculiar situation . 
She seems sensible of her fault The excess of her grief proves her penitence , and I am convinced that her tears flow more from contrition than fear of punishment . 
I cannot better convince Ambrosio that I abhor such crimes , than by punishing that of Agnes with all the rigour of which our severe laws admit . 
Cease then your supplications They will all be unavailing . 
My resolution is taken Tomorrow Agnes shall be made a terrible example of my justice and resentment . 
The Mother Camilla seemed not to give up the point , but by this time the Nuns were out of hearing . 
The Prioress unlocked the door which communicated with St . 
Clare's Chapel , and having entered with her Companion , closed it again after them . 
Matilda now asked , who was this Agnes with whom the Prioress was thus incensed , and what connexion She could have with Ambrosio . 
He related her adventure and He added , that since that time his ideas having undergone a thorough revolution , He now felt much compassion for the unfortunate Nun . 
'I design , said He , 'to request an audience of the Domina tomorrow , and use every means of obtaining a mitigation of her sentence . 
'Beware of what you do ! interrupted Matilda 'Your sudden change of sentiment may naturally create surprize , and may give birth to suspicions which it is most our interest to avoid . 
Rather , redouble your outward austerity , and thunder out menaces against the errors of others , the better to conceal your own . 
Abandon the Nun to her fate . 
Your interfering might be dangerous , and her imprudence merits to be punished She is unworthy to enjoy Love's pleasures , who has not wit enough to conceal them . 
But in discussing this trifling subject I waste moments which are precious . 
The night flies apace , and much must be done before morning . 
The Nuns are retired All is safe . 
Give me the Lamp , Ambrosio . 
I must descend alone into these Caverns Wait here , and if any one approaches , warn me by your voice But as you value your existence , presume not to follow me . 
Your life would fall a victim to your imprudent curiosity . 
Thus saying She advanced towards the Sepulchre , still holding her Lamp in one hand , and her little Basket in the other . 
She touched the door It turned slowly upon its grating hinges , and a narrow winding staircase of black marble presented itself to her eyes . 
Ambrosio remained above , watching the faint beams of the Lamp as they still proceeded up the stairs . 
They disappeared , and He found himself in total darkness . 
Left to himself He could not reflect without surprize on the sudden change in Matilda's character and sentiments . 
But a few days had past since She appeared the mildest and softest of her sex , devoted to his will , and looking up to him as to a superior Being . 
Now She assumed a sort of courage and manliness in her manners and discourse but ill calculated to please him . 
She spoke no longer to insinuate , but command He found himself unable to cope with her in argument , and was unwillingly obliged to confess the superiority of her judgment . 
Every moment convinced him of the astonishing powers of her mind But what She gained in the opinion of the Man , She lost with interest in the affection of the Lover . 
Ambrosio could not easily forgive his Mistress for being deficient in this amiable quality . 
Near an hour had elapsed , since Matilda descended into the Caverns Still She returned not . 
He drew near the Staircase . 
All was silent , except that at intervals He caught the sound of Matilda's voice , as it wound along the subteraneous passages , and was re echoed by the Sepulchre's vaulted roofs . 
She was at too great a distance for him to distinguish her words , and ere they reached him they were deadened into a low murmur . 
He longed to penetrate into this mystery . 
He resolved to disobey her injunctions and follow her into the Cavern . 
He advanced to the Staircase He had already descended some steps when his courage failed him . 
He remembered Matilda's menaces if He infringed her orders , and his bosom was filled with a secret unaccountable awe . 
He returned up the stairs , resumed his former station , and waited impatiently for the conclusion of this adventure . 
Suddenly He was sensible of a violent shock An earthquake rocked the ground . 
It ceased , and his eyes being fixed upon the Staircase , He saw a bright column of light flash along the Caverns beneath . 
It was seen but for an instant . 
No sooner did it disappear , than all was once more quiet and obscure . 
Profound Darkness again surrounded him , and the silence of night was only broken by the whirring Bat , as She flitted slowly by him . 
With every instant Ambrosio's amazement increased . 
Another hour elapsed , after which the same light again appeared and was lost again as suddenly . 
It was accompanied by a strain of sweet but solemn Music , which as it stole through the Vaults below , inspired the Monk with mingled delight and terror . 
It had not long been hushed , when He heard Matilda's steps upon the Staircase . 
She ascended from the Cavern The most lively joy animated her beautiful features . 
'Did you see any thing ? She asked . 
'Twice I saw a column of light flash up the Staircase . 
'The Morning is on the point of breaking . 
Let us retire to the Abbey , lest daylight should betray us . 
With a light step She hastened from the burying ground . 
She regained her Cell , and the curious Abbot still accompanied her . 
She closed the door , and disembarrassed herself of her Lamp and Basket . 
'You reproach me with injustice . 
I grieve sincerely that I am obliged to conceal from you my happiness . 
But I am not to blame The fault lies not in me , but in yourself , my Ambrosio ! You are still too much the Monk . 
Your mind is enslaved by the prejudices of Education And Superstition might make you shudder at the idea of that which experience has taught me to prize and value . 
Till that period arrives , restrain your impatience . 
Remember that you have given me your solemn oath never to enquire into this night's adventures . 
The Friar returned the embrace which had set his blood on fire . 
The luxurious and unbounded excesses of the former night were renewed , and they separated not till the Bell rang for Matins . 
The same pleasures were frequently repeated . 
The Monks rejoiced in the feigned Rosario's unexpected recovery , and none of them suspected his real sex . 
The Abbot possessed his Mistress in tranquillity , and perceiving his frailty unsuspected , abandoned himself to his passions in full security . 
Shame and remorse no longer tormented him . 
Frequent repetitions made him familiar with sin , and his bosom became proof against the stings of Conscience . 
In these sentiments He was encouraged by Matilda But She soon was aware that She had satiated her Lover by the unbounded freedom of her caresses . 
Her charms becoming accustomed to him , they ceased to excite the same desires which at first they had inspired . 
The delirium of passion being past , He had leisure to observe every trifling defect Where none were to be found , Satiety made him fancy them . 
Possession , which cloys Man , only increases the affection of Woman . 
Matilda with every succeeding day grew more attached to the Friar . 
Since He had obtained her favours , He was become dearer to her than ever , and She felt grateful to him for the pleasures in which they had equally been Sharers . 
He no longer gazed upon her with affection , or applauded her sentiments with a Lover's partiality . 
This Matilda well perceived , and redoubled her efforts to revive those sentiments which He once had felt . 
Still , however , their illicit Commerce continued But it was clear that He was led to her arms , not by love , but the cravings of brutal appetite . 
It was by no means his nature to be timid But his education had impressed his mind with fear so strongly , that apprehension was now become part of his character . 
Had his Youth been passed in the world , He would have shown himself possessed of many brilliant and manly qualities . 
He was naturally enterprizing , firm , and fearless He had a Warrior's heart , and He might have shone with splendour at the head of an Army . 
Unfortunately , while yet a Child He was deprived of those Parents . 
The Abbot , a very Monk , used all his endeavours to persuade the Boy that happiness existed not without the walls of a Convent . 
To deserve admittance into the order of St . 
Francis was Ambrosio's highest ambition . 
His Instructors carefully repressed those virtues whose grandeur and disinterestedness were ill suited to the Cloister . 
No wonder that his imagination constantly dwelling upon these fearful objects should have rendered his character timid and apprehensive . 
While the Monks were busied in rooting out his virtues and narrowing his sentiments , they allowed every vice which had fallen to his share to arrive at full perfection . 
His Brother Monks , regarding him as a Superior Being , remarked not this contradiction in their Idol's conduct . 
They were persuaded that what He did must be right , and supposed him to have good reasons for changing his resolutions . 
Unfortunately his passions were the very worst Judges , to whom He could possibly have applied . 
His monastic seclusion had till now been in his favour , since it gave him no room for discovering his bad qualities . 
All impediments yielded before the force of his temperament , warm , sanguine , and voluptuous in the excess . 
As yet his other passions lay dormant But they only needed to be once awakened , to display themselves with violence as great and irresistible . 
He continued to be the admiration of Madrid . 
The Enthusiasm created by his eloquence seemed rather to increase than diminish . 
Every Thursday , which was the only day when He appeared in public , the Capuchin Cathedral was crowded with Auditors , and his discourse was always received with the same approbation . 
He was named Confessor to all the chief families in Madrid and no one was counted fashionable who was injoined penance by any other than Ambrosio . 
In his resolution of never stirring out of his Convent , He still persisted . 
This circumstance created a still greater opinion of his sanctity and self denial . 
Above all , the Women sang forth his praises loudly , less influenced by devotion than by his noble countenance , majestic air , and well turned , graceful figure . 
The Abbey door was thronged with Carriages from morning to night and the noblest and fairest Dames of Madrid confessed to the Abbot their secret peccadilloes . 
The eyes of the luxurious Friar devoured their charms Had his Penitents consulted those Interpreters , He would have needed no other means of expressing his desires . 
For his misfortune , they were so strongly persuaded of his continence , that the possibility of his harbouring indecent thoughts never once entered their imaginations . 
Francis than the cold and rigid heart of the immaculate Ambrosio . 
On his part , the Friar was little acquainted with the depravity of the world He suspected not that but few of his Penitents would have rejected his addresses . 
Yet had He been better instructed on this head , the danger attending such an attempt would have sealed up his lips in silence . 
He knew that it would be difficult for a Woman to keep a secret so strange and so important as his frailty and He even trembled lest Matilda should betray him . 
One morning , the confluence of Penitents was greater than usual . 
He was detained in the Confessional Chair till a late hour . 
At length the crowd was dispatched , and He prepared to quit the Chapel , when two Females entered and drew near him with humility . 
They threw up their veils , and the youngest entreated him to listen to her for a few moments . 
The melody of her voice , of that voice to which no Man ever listened without interest , immediately caught Ambrosio's attention . 
The Petitioner seemed bowed down with affliction Her cheeks were pale , her eyes dimmed with tears , and her hair fell in disorder over her face and bosom . 
Still her countenance was so sweet , so innocent , so heavenly , as might have charmed an heart less susceptible , than that which panted in the Abbot's breast . 
With more than usual softness of manner He desired her to proceed , and heard her speak as follows with an emotion which increased every moment . 
A sudden and dreadful malady seized her last night and so rapid has been its progress , that the Physicians despair of her life . 
Human aid fails me Nothing remains for me but to implore the mercy of Heaven . 
Father , all Madrid rings with the report of your piety and virtue . 
'So ! thought the Monk 'Here we have a second Vincentio della Ronda . 
Rosario's adventure began thus , and He wished secretly that this might have the same conclusion . 
He acceded to the request . 
The Petitioner returned him thanks with every mark of gratitude , and then continued . 
'I have yet another favour to ask . 
We are Strangers in Madrid My Mother needs a Confessor , and knows not to whom She should apply . 
With this petition also the Monk complied . 
He promised to send to her a Confessor that same Evening , and begged her to leave her address . 
The Companion presented him with a Card on which it was written , and then withdrew with the fair Petitioner , who pronounced before her departure a thousand benedictions on the Abbot's goodness . 
His eyes followed her out of the Chapel . 
It was not till She was out of sight that He examined the Card , on which He read the following words . 
'Donna Elvira Dalfa , Strada di San Iago , four doors from the Palace d'Albornos . 
The Suppliant was no other than Antonia , and Leonella was her Companion . 
The Latter had not consented without difficulty to accompany her Niece to the Abbey Ambrosio had inspired her with such awe that She trembled at the very sight of him . 
Her fears had conquered even her natural loquacity , and while in his presence She uttered not a single syllable . 
The Monk retired to his Cell , whither He was pursued by Antonia's image . 
He felt a thousand new emotions springing in his bosom , and He trembled to examine into the cause which gave them birth . 
They were totally different from those inspired by Matilda , when She first declared her sex and her affection . 
He felt not the provocation of lust No voluptuous desires rioted in his bosom Nor did a burning imagination picture to him the charms which Modesty had veiled from his eyes . 
On the contrary , what He now felt was a mingled sentiment of tenderness , admiration , and respect . 
A soft and delicious melancholy infused itself into his soul , and He would not have exchanged it for the most lively transports of joy . 
Matilda gluts me with enjoyment even to loathing , forces me to her arms , apes the Harlot , and glories in her prostitution . 
While his fancy coined these ideas , He paced his Cell with a disordered air . 
His eyes were fixed upon vacancy His head reclined upon his shoulder A tear rolled down his cheek , while He reflected that the vision of happiness for him could never be realized . 
'She is lost to me ! He continued 'By marriage She cannot be mine And to seduce such innocence , to use the confidence reposed in me to work her ruin . 
Oh ! it would be a crime , blacker than yet the world ever witnessed ! Fear not , lovely Girl ! Your virtue runs no risque from me . 
Not for Indies would I make that gentle bosom know the tortures of remorse . 
Again He paced his chamber hastily . 
Then stopping , his eye fell upon the picture of his once admired Madona . 
He tore it with indignation from the wall He threw it on the ground , and spurned it from him with his foot . 
He threw himself into a Chair which stood near the Table . 
He saw the card with Elvira's address . 
He took it up , and it brought to his recollection his promise respecting a Confessor . 
He passed a few minutes in doubt But Antonia's Empire over him was already too much decided to permit his making a long resistance to the idea which struck him . 
He resolved to be the Confessor himself . 
Accordingly , at the hours when the Spaniards are generally taking their Siesta , He ventured to quit the Abbey by a private door , the Key of which was in his possession . 
He rang , was admitted , and immediately ushered into an upper apartment . 
It was here that He ran the greatest risque of a discovery . 
Fortune here stood the Monk's Friend . 
On Leonella's return home , She found a letter instructing her that a Cousin was just dead , who had left what little He possessed between Herself and Elvira . 
To secure this bequest She was obliged to set out for Cordova without losing a moment . 
Amidst all her foibles her heart was truly warm and affectionate , and She was unwilling to quit her Sister in so dangerous a state . 
But Elvira insisted upon her taking the journey , conscious that in her Daughter's forlorn situation no increase of fortune , however trifling , ought to be neglected . 
Accordingly , Leonella left Madrid , sincerely grieved at her Sister's illness , and giving some few sighs to the memory of the amiable but inconstant Don Christoval . 
Whatever was the cause of her losing him , She lamented it sorely . 
She strove in vain , as She assured every body who was kind enough to listen to her , to tear his image from her too susceptible heart . 
She affected the airs of a lovesick Virgin , and carried them all to the most ridiculous excess . 
Elvira was out of patience at all these follies , and endeavoured at persuading her to act like a reasonable Woman . 
Her advice was thrown away Leonella assured her at parting that nothing could make her forget the perfidious Don Christoval . 
In this point She was fortunately mistaken . 
The ardour of his sighs melted her heart , and She soon consented to make him the happiest of Mankind . 
She wrote to inform her Sister of her marriage But , for reasons which will be explained hereafter , Elvira never answered her letter . 
Ambrosio was conducted into the Antichamber to that where Elvira was reposing . 
The Female Domestic who had admitted him left him alone while She announced his arrival to her Mistress . 
Antonia , who had been by her Mother's Bedside , immediately came to him . 
'Pardon me , Father , said She , advancing towards him when recognizing his features , She stopped suddenly , and uttered a cry of joy . 
Elvira was highly gratified by this visit Her expectations had been raised high by general report , but She found them far exceeded . 
Ambrosio , endowed by nature with powers of pleasing , exerted them to the utmost while conversing with Antonia's Mother . 
Elvira was absorbed in attention and delight While She listened to his exhortations , confidence and comfort stole insensibly into her mind . 
She unbosomed to him without hesitation her cares and apprehensions . 
The latter respecting a future life He had already quieted And He now removed the former , which She felt for the concerns of this . 
She had none to whose care She could recommend her , save to the Marquis de las Cisternas and her Sister Leonella . 
The Friar no sooner learnt the cause of her alarms than He begged her to make herself easy upon that head . 
These proofs of the interest which He felt for her completely won Elvira's heart . 
In thanking him She exhausted every expression which Gratitude could furnish , and protested that now She should resign herself with tranquillity to the Grave . 
Ambrosio rose to take leave He promised to return the next day at the same hour , but requested that his visits might be kept secret . 
'I am unwilling' said He , 'that my breaking through a rule imposed by necessity should be generally known . 
Elvira commended equally his prudence and compassion , promising to conceal carefully the honour of his visits . 
The Monk then gave her his benediction , and retired from the chamber . 
In the Antiroom He found Antonia He could not refuse himself the pleasure of passing a few moments in her society . 
He bad her take comfort , for that her Mother seemed composed and tranquil , and He hoped that She might yet do well . 
He enquired who attended her , and engaged to send the Physician of his Convent to see her , one of the most skilful in Madrid . 
He then launched out in Elvira's commendation , praised her purity and fortitude of mind , and declared that She had inspired him with the highest esteem and reverence . 
Antonia's innocent heart swelled with gratitude Joy danced in her eyes , where a tear still sparkled . 
Such alone know how to estimate benefits at their full value . 
Not so Antonia She thought the world was composed only of those who resembled her , and that vice existed , was to her still a secret . 
Ambrosio was at length obliged to tear himself from this conversation which possessed for him but too many charms . 
He repeated to Antonia his wishes that his visits should not be made known , which desire She promised to observe . 
He then quitted the House , while his Enchantress hastened to her Mother , ignorant of the mischief which her Beauty had caused . 
His fine and full toned voice struck me particularly But surely , Antonia , I have heard it before . 
It seemed perfectly familiar to my ear . 
Either I must have known the Abbot in former times , or his voice bears a wonderful resemblance to that of some other , to whom I have often listened . 
There were certain tones which touched my very heart , and made me feel sensations so singular , that I strive in vain to account for them . 
'My dearest Mother , it produced the same effect upon me Yet certainly neither of us ever heard his voice till we came to Madrid . 
I suspect that what we attribute to his voice , really proceeds from his pleasant manners , which forbid our considering him as a Stranger . 
I know not why , but I feel more at my ease while conversing with him than I usually do with people who are unknown to me . 
I feared not to repeat to him all my childish thoughts and somehow I felt confident that He would hear my folly with indulgence . 
He told me just now , that from his ignorance of the Streets , He had some difficulty to find the Strada di San Iago , though so near the Abbey . 
'All this is possible , and still I may have seen him BEFORE He entered the Abbey In order to come out , it was rather necessary that He should first go in . 
'Holy Virgin ! As you say , that is very true . 
Oh ! But might He not have been born in the Abbey ? Elvira smiled . 
'Why , not very easily . 
'Stay , Stay ! Now I recollect how it was . 
He was put into the Abbey quite a Child The common People say that He fell from heaven , and was sent as a present to the Capuchins by the Virgin . 
'That was very kind of her . 
And so He fell from heaven , Antonia ? He must have had a terrible tumble . 
'Many do not credit this , and I fancy , my dear Mother , that I must number you among the Unbelievers . 
Indeed , as our Landlady told my Aunt , the general idea is that his Parents , being poor and unable to maintain him , left him just born at the Abbey door . 
'Upon my word , Antonia , you argue very closely ! Your conclusions are infallible ! I did not suspect you of being so able a Logician . 
'Ah ! You are mocking me ! But so much the better . 
It delights me to see you in spirits Besides you seem tranquil and easy , and I hope that you will have no more convulsions . 
Oh ! I was sure the Abbot's visit would do you good ! 'It has indeed done me good , my Child . 
He has quieted my mind upon some points which agitated me , and I already feel the effects of his attention . 
My eyes grow heavy , and I think I can sleep a little . 
Draw the curtains , my Antonia But if I should not wake before midnight , do not sit up with me , I charge you . 
Antonia promised to obey her , and having received her blessing drew the curtains of the Bed . 
She then seated herself in silence at her embroidery frame , and beguiled the hours with building Castles in the air . 
Her spirits were enlivened by the evident change for the better in Elvira , and her fancy presented her with visions bright and pleasing . 
In these dreams Ambrosio made no despicable figure . 
She thought of him with joy and gratitude But for every idea which fell to the Friar's share , at least two were unconsciously bestowed upon Lorenzo . 
She undrew the curtains with caution . 
She kissed her Mother's forehead softly , and retired to her chamber . 
There She knelt before a Statue of St . 
Rosolia , her Patroness She recommended herself to the protection of heaven , and as had been her custom from infancy , concluded her devotions by chaunting the following Stanzas . 
MIDNIGHT HYMN Now all is hushed The solemn chime No longer swells the nightly gale Thy awful presence , Hour sublime , With spotless heart once more I hail . 
Show me the crystal Domes of Heaven , The worlds of light where Angels lie Shew me the lot to Mortals given , Who guiltless live , who guiltless die . 
Then show me how a seat to gain Amidst those blissful realms of Air Teach me to shun each guilty stain , And guide me to the good and fair . 
Having finished her usual devotions , Antonia retired to bed . 
Sleep soon stole over her senses and for several hours She enjoyed that calm repose which innocence alone can know , and for which many a Monarch with pleasure would exchange his Crown . 
Returned undiscovered to the Abbey , Ambrosio's mind was filled with the most pleasing images . 
He failed not to profit by Elvira's indisposition to obtain a sight of her Daughter every day . 
Warmth of passion , and natural penetration , of which latter unfortunately both for himself and Antonia He possessed an ample share , supplied a knowledge of the arts of seduction . 
He easily distinguished the emotions which were favourable to his designs , and seized every means with avidity of infusing corruption into Antonia's bosom . 
This He found no easy matter . 
By a few simple words She frequently overthrew the whole bulk of his sophistical arguments , and made him conscious how weak they were when opposed to Virtue and Truth . 
He perceived that her respect for his judgment augmented daily , and doubted not with time to bring her to the point desired . 
He was not unconscious that his attempts were highly criminal He saw clearly the baseness of seducing the innocent Girl But his passion was too violent to permit his abandoning his design . 
He resolved to pursue it , let the consequences be what they might . 
While He waited for the opportunity of satisfying his unwarrantable lust , every day increased his coldness for Matilda . 
Not a little was this occasioned by the consciousness of his faults to her . 
Matilda could not but remark his indifference He was conscious that She remarked it , and fearing her reproaches , shunned her studiously . 
Yet when He could not avoid her , her mildness might have convinced him that He had nothing to dread from her resentment . 
Ambrosio was not unmoved by her sorrow But unable to remove its cause , He forbore to show that it affected him . 
As her conduct convinced him that He needed not fear her vengeance , He continued to neglect her , and avoided her company with care . 
Matilda saw that She in vain attempted to regain his affections Yet She stifled the impulse of resentment , and continued to treat her inconstant Lover with her former fondness and attention . 
By degrees Elvira's constitution recovered itself . 
She was no longer troubled with convulsions , and Antonia ceased to tremble for her Mother . 
Ambrosio beheld this reestablishment with displeasure . 
He saw that Elvira's knowledge of the world would not be the Dupe of his sanctified demeanour , and that She would easily perceive his views upon her Daughter . 
He resolved therefore , before She quitted her chamber , to try the extent of his influence over the innocent Antonia . 
One evening , when He had found Elvira almost perfectly restored to health , He quitted her earlier than was his usual custom . 
Not finding Antonia in the Antichamber , He ventured to follow her to her own . 
It was only separated from her Mother's by a Closet , in which Flora , the Waiting Woman , generally slept . 
Antonia sat upon a Sopha with her back towards the door , and read attentively . 
She heard not his approach , till He had seated himself by her . 
She complied without difficulty She knew not that there was more impropriety in conversing with him in one room than another . 
She thought herself equally secure of his principles and her own , and having replaced herself upon the Sopha , She began to prattle to him with her usual ease and vivacity . 
He examined the Book which She had been reading , and had now placed upon the Table . 
That prudent Mother , while She admired the beauties of the sacred writings , was convinced that , unrestricted , no reading more improper could be permitted a young Woman . 
She had in consequence made two resolutions respecting the Bible . 
Ambrosio perceived his mistake , and replaced the Book upon the Table . 
Antonia spoke of her Mother's health with all the enthusiastic joy of a youthful heart . 
'I admire your filial affection , said the Abbot 'It proves the excellence and sensibility of your character It promises a treasure to him whom Heaven has destined to possess your affections . 
'What it is to love ? said She , repeating his question 'Oh ! yes , undoubtedly I have loved many , many People . 
'That is not what I mean . 
The love of which I speak can be felt only for one . 
Besides , She thought of an Husband with all a Virgin's terror , and negatived the Friar's demand without a moment's hesitation . 
You love , Antonia , and in vain would hide it from me . 
'Father , you amaze me ! What is this love of which you speak ? I neither know its nature , nor if I felt it , why I should conceal the sentiment . 
Scarcely dared He credit his hearing . 
'Me , Antonia ? He cried , his eyes sparkling with delight and impatience , while He seized her hand , and pressed it rapturously to his lips . 
'Me , Antonia ? You felt these sentiments for me ? 'Even with more strength than you have described . 
I wept when you departed , and longed for the time which should restore you to my sight . 
Startled , alarmed , and confused at his action , surprize at first deprived her of the power of resistance . 
At length recovering herself , She strove to escape from his embrace . 
Ambrosio ! She cried 'Release me , for God's sake ! But the licentious Monk heeded not her prayers He persisted in his design , and proceeded to take still greater liberties . 
Ambrosio had just sufficient presence of mind to be sensible of his danger . 
Reluctantly He quitted his prey , and started hastily from the Couch . 
Antonia uttered an exclamation of joy , flew towards the door , and found herself clasped in the arms of her Mother . 
Alarmed at some of the Abbot's speeches , which Antonia had innocently repeated , Elvira resolved to ascertain the truth of her suspicions . 
She had known enough of Mankind not to be imposed upon by the Monk's reputed virtue . 
She reflected on several circumstances , which though trifling , on being put together seemed to authorize her fears . 
In consequence , She resolved , when He should next be alone with Antonia , to endeavour at surprizing him . 
However , She was too prudent to make those suspicions known . 
Reassured by her behaviour , the Monk began to recover himself . 
He strove to answer Elvira without appearing embarrassed But He was still too great a novice in dissimulation , and He felt that He must look confused and awkward . 
He soon broke off the conversation , and rose to depart . 
Though delivered in the mildest language this hint was too plain to be mistaken . 
Still , He was preparing to put in a remonstrance when an expressive look from Elvira stopped him short . 
Antonia's mind felt relieved by his departure Yet She could not help lamenting that She was never to see him more . 
She therefore contented herself with warning Antonia to be upon her guard , and ordering her , should the Abbot persist in his visits , never to receive them but in company . 
With this injunction Antonia promised to comply . 
Ambrosio hastened to his Cell . 
He closed the door after him , and threw himself upon the bed in despair . 
The impulse of desire , the stings of disappointment , the shame of detection , and the fear of being publicly unmasked , rendered his bosom a scene of the most horrible confusion . 
He knew not what course to pursue . 
Debarred the presence of Antonia , He had no hopes of satisfying that passion which was now become a part of his existence . 
With the direct imprecations He vowed vengeance against her He swore that , cost what it would , He still would possess Antonia . 
He was still under the influence of this storm of passions when He heard a gentle knock at the door of his Cell . 
Conscious that his voice must have been heard , He dared not refuse admittance to the Importuner He strove to compose himself , and to hide his agitation . 
Having in some degree succeeded , He drew back the bolt The door opened , and Matilda appeared . 
At this precise moment there was no one with whose presence He could better have dispensed . 
He had not sufficient command over himself to conceal his vexation . 
He started back , and frowned . 
'Forgive me , Ambrosio , said She 'For your own sake I must not obey you . 
Fear no complaints from me I come not to reproach you with your ingratitude . 
I pardon you from my heart , and since your love can no longer be mine , I request the next best gift , your confidence and friendship . 
'Tis of this which I complain , not of your indifference to my person . 
I have given up the claims of the Mistress , but nothing shall prevail on me to give up those of the Friend . 
Her mildness had an instantaneous effect upon Ambrosio's feelings . 
'Generous Matilda ! He replied , taking her hand , 'How far do you rise superior to the foibles of your sex ! Yes , I accept your offer . 
I have need of an adviser , and a Confident In you I find every needful quality united . 
But to aid my pursuits . 
Ah ! Matilda , it lies not in your power ! 'It lies in no one's power but mine . 
Ambrosio , your secret is none to me Your every step , your every action has been observed by my attentive eye . 
'Matilda ! 'Why conceal it from me ? Fear not the little jealousy which taints the generality of Women My soul disdains so despicable a passion . 
You love , Ambrosio Antonia Dalfa is the object of your flame . 
I know every circumstance respecting your passion Every conversation has been repeated to me . 
I have been informed of your attempt to enjoy Antonia's person , your disappointment , and dismission from Elvira's House . 
You now despair of possessing your Mistress But I come to revive your hopes , and point out the road to success . 
'To success ? Oh ! impossible ! 'To them who dare nothing is impossible . 
Rely upon me , and you may yet be happy . 
The time is come , Ambrosio , when regard for your comfort and tranquillity compels me to reveal a part of my History , with which you are still unacquainted . 
I formerly mentioned that my Guardian was a Man of uncommon knowledge He took pains to instil that knowledge into my infant mind . 
Among the various sciences which curiosity had induced him to explore , He neglected not that which by most is esteemed impious , and by many chimerical . 
I speak of those arts which relate to the world of Spirits . 
His curiosity was fully slaked , his ambition amply gratified . 
He gave laws to the elements He could reverse the order of nature His eye read the mandates of futurity , and the infernal Spirits were submissive to his commands . 
Why shrink you from me ? I understand that enquiring look . 
Your suspicions are right , though your terrors are unfounded . 
My Guardian concealed not from me his most precious acquisition . 
Yet had I never seen YOU , I should never have exerted my power . 
Like you I shuddered at the thoughts of Magic Like you I had formed a terrible idea of the consequences of raising a daemon . 
To preserve that life which your love had taught me to prize , I had recourse to means which I trembled at employing . 
You remember that night which I past in St . 
Clare's Sepulchre ? Then was it that , surrounded by mouldering bodies , I dared to perform those mystic rites which summoned to my aid a fallen Angel . 
The consequences are too horrible I doat upon Antonia , but am not so blinded by lust as to sacrifice for her enjoyment my existence both in this world and the next . 
'Ridiculous prejudices ! Oh ! blush , Ambrosio , blush at being subjected to their dominion . 
Where is the risque of accepting my offers ? What should induce my persuading you to this step , except the wish of restoring you to happiness and quiet . 
If there is danger , it must fall upon me It is I who invoke the ministry of the Spirits Mine therefore will be the crime , and yours the profit . 
But danger there is none The Enemy of Mankind is my Slave , not my Sovereign . 
Clare's Sepulchre , witness my incantations , and Antonia is your own . 
'To obtain her by such means I neither can , or will . 
Cease then to persuade me , for I dare not employ Hell's agency . 
Though my passions have made me deviate from her laws , I still feel in my heart an innate love of virtue . 
Afford him a glorious opportunity to exert that goodness The greater your crime , the greater his merit in pardoning . 
Away then with these childish scruples Be persuaded to your good , and follow me to the Sepulchre . 
'Oh ! cease , Matilda ! That scoffing tone , that bold and impious language , is horrible in every mouth , but most so in a Woman's . 
Let us drop a conversation which excites no other sentiments than horror and disgust . 
I will not follow you to the Sepulchre , or accept the services of your infernal Agents . 
Antonia shall be mine , but mine by human means . 
'Then yours She will never be ! You are banished her presence Her Mother has opened her eyes to your designs , and She is now upon her guard against them . 
Nay more , She loves another . 
A Youth of distinguished merit possesses her heart , and unless you interfere , a few days will make her his Bride . 
This intelligence was brought me by my invisible Servants , to whom I had recourse on first perceiving your indifference . 
They watched your every action , related to me all that past at Elvira's , and inspired me with the idea of favouring your designs . 
Their reports have been my only comfort . 
'Amidst all my sorrows , amidst all my regrets for your coldness , I was sustained from despair by the virtues of this Talisman . 
The Friar's curiosity was excited strongly . 
'What you relate is incredible ! Matilda , are you not amusing yourself with my credulity ? 'Be your own eyes the Judge . 
She put the Mirror into his hand . 
Curiosity induced him to take it , and Love , to wish that Antonia might appear . 
Matilda pronounced the magic words . 
Immediately , a thick smoke rose from the characters traced upon the borders , and spread itself over the surface . 
The scene was a small closet belonging to her apartment . 
She was undressing to bathe herself . 
The long tresses of her hair were already bound up . 
The amorous Monk had full opportunity to observe the voluptuous contours and admirable symmetry of her person . 
She threw off her last garment , and advancing to the Bath prepared for her , She put her foot into the water . 
It struck cold , and She drew it back again . 
Though unconscious of being observed , an inbred sense of modesty induced her to veil her charms and She stood hesitating upon the brink , in the attitude of the Venus de Medicis . 
At this moment a tame Linnet flew towards her , nestled its head between her breasts , and nibbled them in wanton play . 
The smiling Antonia strove in vain to shake off the Bird , and at length raised her hands to drive it from its delightful harbour . 
Ambrosio could bear no more His desires were worked up to phrenzy . 
'I yield ! He cried , dashing the mirror upon the ground 'Matilda , I follow you ! Do with me what you will ! She waited not to hear his consent repeated . 
She flew to her Cell , and soon returned with her little basket and the Key of the Cemetery , which had remained in her possession since her first visit to the Vaults . 
She gave the Monk no time for reflection . 
'Come ! She said , and took his hand 'Follow me , and witness the effects of your resolve ! This said , She drew him hastily along . 
They passed into the Burying ground unobserved , opened the door of the Sepulchre , and found themselves at the head of the subterraneous Staircase . 
As yet the beams of the full Moon had guided their steps , but that resource now failed them . 
Matilda had neglected to provide herself with a Lamp . 
Still holding Ambrosio's hand She descended the marble steps But the profound obscurity with which they were overspread obliged them to walk slow and cautiously . 
'You tremble ! said Matilda to her Companion 'Fear not The destined spot is near . 
They reached the foot of the Staircase , and continued to proceed , feeling their way along the Walls . 
On turning a corner suddenly , they descried faint gleams of light which seemed burning at a distance . 
Thither they bent their steps The rays proceeded from a small sepulchral Lamp which flamed unceasingly before the Statue of St . 
It tinged with dim and cheerless beams the massy Columns which supported the Roof , but was too feeble to dissipate the thick gloom in which the Vaults above were buried . 
'Wait for me ! said She to the Friar 'In a few moments I am here again . 
With these words She hastened into one of the passages which branched in various directions from this spot , and formed a sort of Labyrinth . 
Ambrosio was now left alone Darkness the most profound surrounded him , and encouraged the doubts which began to revive in his bosom . 
He trembled at the scene which He was soon to witness . 
In this fearful dilemma , He would have implored God's assistance , but was conscious that He had forfeited all claim to such protection . 
Gladly would He have returned to the Abbey But as He had past through innumerable Caverns and winding passages , the attempt of regaining the Stairs was hopeless . 
He reflected that Antonia would be the reward of his daring He inflamed his imagination by enumerating her charms . 
He had read much respecting witchcraft He understood that unless a formal Act was signed renouncing his claim to salvation , Satan would have no power over him . 
He was fully determined not to execute any such act , whatever threats might be used , or advantages held out to him . 
Such were his meditations while waiting for Matilda . 
They were interrupted by a low murmur which seemed at no great distance from him . 
Some minutes past in silence , after which the murmur was repeated . 
It appeared to be the groaning of one in pain . 
In any other situation , this circumstance would only have excited his attention and curiosity In the present , his predominant sensation was that of terror . 
The noise seemed not to approach , but continued to be heard at intervals . 
Sometimes it became more audible , doubtless as the sufferings of the person who uttered the groans became more acute and insupportable . 
They died away gradually , and universal silence again prevailed . 
'What can this mean ? thought the bewildered Monk . 
At that moment an idea which flashed into his mind , almost petrified him with horror . 
He started , and shuddered at himself . 
He forgot the groaning Sufferer , and remembered nothing but the danger and embarrassment of his own situation . 
The light of the returning Lamp gilded the walls , and in a few moments after Matilda stood beside him . 
Her neck and arms were uncovered . 
In her hand She bore a golden wand . 
Her hair was loose and flowed wildly upon her shoulders Her eyes sparkled with terrific expression and her whole Demeanour was calculated to inspire the beholder with awe and admiration . 
'Follow me ! She said to the Monk in a low and solemn voice 'All is ready ! His limbs trembled , while He obeyed her . 
At length they reached a spacious Cavern , whose lofty roof the eye sought in vain to discover . 
A profound obscurity hovered through the void . 
Damp vapours struck cold to the Friar's heart and He listened sadly to the blast while it howled along the lonely Vaults . 
His cheeks and lips were pale with apprehension . 
By a glance of mingled scorn and anger She reproved his pusillanimity , but She spoke not . 
She placed the Lamp upon the ground , near the Basket . 
She motioned that Ambrosio should be silent , and began the mysterious rites . 
She drew a circle round him , another round herself , and then taking a small Phial from the Basket , poured a few drops upon the ground before her . 
She bent over the place , muttered some indistinct sentences , and immediately a pale sulphurous flame arose from the ground . 
It increased by degrees , and at length spread its waves over the whole surface , the circles alone excepted in which stood Matilda and the Monk . 
It then ascended the huge Columns of unhewn stone , glided along the roof , and formed the Cavern into an immense chamber totally covered with blue trembling fire . 
It emitted no heat On the contrary , the extreme chillness of the place seemed to augment with every moment . 
She threw them all into the flames which burned before her , and they were instantly consumed . 
The Monk beheld her with anxious curiosity . 
Suddenly She uttered a loud and piercing shriek . 
The blood gushed out plentifully , and as She stood on the brink of the circle , She took care that it should fall on the outside . 
The flames retired from the spot on which the blood was pouring . 
A volume of dark clouds rose slowly from the ensanguined earth , and ascended gradually , till it reached the vault of the Cavern . 
At the same time a clap of thunder was heard The echo pealed fearfully along the subterraneous passages , and the ground shook beneath the feet of the Enchantress . 
It was now that Ambrosio repented of his rashness . 
The solemn singularity of the charm had prepared him for something strange and horrible . 
He waited with fear for the Spirit's appearance , whose coming was announced by thunder and earthquakes . 
He looked wildly round him , expecting that some dreadful Apparition would meet his eyes , the sight of which would drive him mad . 
A cold shivering seized his body , and He sank upon one knee , unable to support himself . 
'He comes ! exclaimed Matilda in a joyful accent . 
Ambrosio started , and expected the Daemon with terror . 
What was his surprize , when the Thunder ceasing to roll , a full strain of melodious Music sounded in the air . 
At the same time the cloud dispersed , and He beheld a Figure more beautiful than Fancy's pencil ever drew . 
It was a Youth seemingly scarce eighteen , the perfection of whose form and face was unrivalled . 
Circlets of Diamonds were fastened round his arms and ankles , and in his right hand He bore a silver branch , imitating Myrtle . 
His form shone with dazzling glory He was surrounded by clouds of rose coloured light , and at the moment that He appeared , a refreshing air breathed perfumes through the Cavern . 
Matilda addressed herself to the Spirit She spoke in a language unintelligible to the Monk , and was answered in the same . 
She seemed to insist upon something which the Daemon was unwilling to grant . 
He frequently darted upon Ambrosio angry glances , and at such times the Friar's heart sank within him . 
Matilda appeared to grow incensed . 
She spoke in a loud and commanding tone , and her gestures declared that She was threatening him with her vengeance . 
Her menaces had the desired effect The Spirit sank upon his knee , and with a submissive air presented to her the branch of Myrtle . 
No sooner had She received it , than the Music was again heard A thick cloud spread itself over the Apparition The blue flames disappeared , and total obscurity reigned through the Cave . 
The Abbot moved not from his place His faculties were all bound up in pleasure , anxiety , and surprize . 
At length the darkness dispersing , He perceived Matilda standing near him in her religious habit , with the Myrtle in her hand . 
No traces of the incantation , and the Vaults were only illuminated by the faint rays of the sepulchral Lamp . 
'I have succeeded , said Matilda , 'though with more difficulty than I expected . 
Lucifer , whom I summoned to my assistance , was at first unwilling to obey my commands To enforce his compliance I was constrained to have recourse to my strongest charms . 
They have produced the desired effect , but I have engaged never more to invoke his agency in your favour . 
Beware then , how you employ an opportunity which never will return . 
My magic arts will now be of no use to you In future you can only hope for supernatural aid by invoking the Daemons yourself , and accepting the conditions of their service . 
This you will never do You want strength of mind to force them to obedience , and unless you pay their established price , they will not be your voluntary Servants . 
In this one instance they consent to obey you I offer you the means of enjoying your Mistress , and be careful not to lose the opportunity . 
Receive this constellated Myrtle While you bear this in your hand , every door will fly open to you . 
It will procure you access tomorrow night to Antonia's chamber Then breathe upon it thrice , pronounce her name , and place it upon her pillow . 
A death like slumber will immediately seize upon her , and deprive her of the power of resisting your attempts . 
Sleep will hold her till break of Morning . 
Be happy then , my Ambrosio , and let this service convince you that my friendship is disinterested and pure . 
The night must be near expiring Let us return to the Abbey , lest our absence should create surprize . 
The Abbot received the talisman with silent gratitude . 
His ideas were too much bewildered by the adventures of the night to permit his expressing his thanks audibly , or indeed as yet to feel the whole value of her present . 
Matilda took up her Lamp and Basket , and guided her Companion from the mysterious Cavern . 
She restored the Lamp to its former place , and continued her route in darkness , till She reached the foot of the Staircase . 
The first beams of the rising Sun darting down it facilitated the ascent . 
Matilda and the Abbot hastened out of the Sepulchre , closed the door after them , and soon regained the Abbey's western Cloister . 
No one met them , and they retired unobserved to their respective Cells . 
The confusion of Ambrosio's mind now began to appease . 
He rejoiced in the fortunate issue of his adventure , and reflecting upon the virtues of the Myrtle , looked upon Antonia as already in his power . 
Imagination retraced to him those secret charms betrayed to him by the Enchanted Mirror , and He waited with impatience for the approach of midnight . 
All the researches of the Marquis de las Cisternas proved vain Agnes was lost to him for ever . 
Despair produced so violent an effect upon his constitution , that the consequence was a long and severe illness . 
This prevented him from visiting Elvira as He had intended and She being ignorant of the cause of his neglect , it gave her no trifling uneasiness . 
Every day made her more uneasy respecting Antonia's fate While She retained the Abbot's protection , She bore with fortitude the disappointment of her hopes with regard to Lorenzo and the Marquis . 
That resource now failed her . 
Then She would clasp her in her arms suddenly , lean her head upon her Daughter's bosom , and bedew it with her tears . 
An event was in preparation which , had She known it , would have relieved her from her inquietude . 
Don Raymond's malady seemed to gain ground . 
Lorenzo was constantly at his bedside , and treated him with a tenderness truly fraternal . 
Both the cause and effects of the disorder were highly afflicting to the Brother of Agnes yet Theodore's grief was scarcely less sincere . 
That amiable Boy quitted not his Master for a moment , and put every means in practice to console and alleviate his sufferings . 
Though convinced of its falsehood , his Attendants encouraged him in a belief which formed his only comfort . 
The Marquis constantly fell into the most terrible excess of passion when informed of the failure of these supposed attempts . 
Still He would not credit that the succeeding ones would have the same fate , but flattered himself that the next would prove more fortunate . 
Theodore was the only one who exerted himself to realize his Master's Chimoeras . 
He was eternally busied in planning schemes for entering the Convent , or at least of obtaining from the Nuns some intelligence of Agnes . 
To execute these schemes was the only inducement which could prevail on him to quit Don Raymond . 
One day He took it into his head to disguise himself as a Beggar . 
He put a patch over his left eye , took his Guitar in hand , and posted himself at the Gate of the Convent . 
With this idea He mingled with a crowd of Beggars who assembled daily at the Gate of St . 
Clare to receive Soup , which the Nuns were accustomed to distribute at twelve o'clock . 
All were provided with jugs or bowls to carry it away But as Theodore had no utensil of this kind , He begged leave to eat his portion at the Convent door . 
Theodore was bad to stay till the Others should depart , and promised that his request should then be granted . 
The Youth desired no better , since it was not to eat Soup that He presented himself at the Convent . 
He thanked the Porteress for her permission , retired from the Door , and seating himself upon a large stone , amused himself in tuning his Guitar while the Beggars were served . 
As soon as the Crowd was gone , Theodore was beckoned to the Gate , and desired to come in . 
He obeyed with infinite readiness , but affected great respect at passing the hallowed Threshold , and to be much daunted by the presence of the Reverend Ladies . 
His feigned timidity flattered the vanity of the Nuns , who endeavoured to reassure him . 
His Hostess added some fruits and confections from her own private store , and Both encouraged the Youth to dine heartily . 
To all these attentions He replied with much seeming gratitude , and abundance of blessings upon his benefactresses . 
While He ate , the Nuns admired the delicacy of his features , the beauty of his hair , and the sweetness and grace which accompanied all his actions . 
They concluded their conference by resolving that Heaven would be rendered a real service if they entreated the Prioress to intercede with Ambrosio for the Beggar's admission into the order of Capuchins . 
This being determined , the Porteress , who was a person of great influence in the Convent , posted away in all haste to the Domina's Cell . 
Here She made so flaming a narrative of Theodore's merits that the old Lady grew curious to see him . 
Accordingly , the Porteress was commissioned to convey him to the Parlour grate . 
In the interim , the supposed Beggar was sifting the Lay Sister with respect to the fate of Agnes Her evidence only corroborated the Domina's assertions . 
She said that Agnes had been taken ill on returning from confession , had never quitted her bed from that moment , and that She had herself been present at the Funeral . 
She even attested having seen her dead body , and assisted with her own hands in adjusting it upon the Bier . 
This account discouraged Theodore Yet as He had pushed the adventure so far , He resolved to witness its conclusion . 
The Porteress now returned , and ordered him to follow her . 
He obeyed , and was conducted into the Parlour , where the Lady Prioress was already posted at the Grate . 
The Nuns surrounded her , who all flocked with eagerness to a scene which promised some diversion . 
Theodore saluted them with profound respect , and his presence had the power to smooth for a moment even the stern brow of the Superior . 
She asked several questions respecting his Parents , his religion , and what had reduced him to a state of Beggary . 
To these demands his answers were perfectly satisfactory and perfectly false . 
He was then asked his opinion of a monastic life He replied in terms of high estimation and respect for it . 
The Nuns , whom respect for the Superior had till then kept silent , now crowded all together to the Grate , and assailed the Youth with a multitude of questions . 
He had already examined each with attention Alas ! Agnes was not amongst them . 
The Nuns heaped question upon question so thickly that it was scarcely possible for him to reply . 
Theodore amused himself with retailing to the credulous Nuns for truths all the strange stories which his imagination could invent . 
He said , that He was born in Terra Incognita , was educated at an Hottentot University , and had past two years among the Americans of Silesia . 
'For what regards the loss of my eye' said He , 'it was a just punishment upon me for disrespect to the Virgin , when I made my second pilgrimage to Loretto . 
I stood near the Altar in the miraculous Chapel The Monks were proceeding to array the Statue in her best apparel . 
The Pilgrims were ordered to close their eyes during this ceremony But though by nature extremely religious , curiosity was too powerful . 
I shall penetrate you with horror , reverend Ladies , when I reveal my crime ! . 
At the moment that the Monks were changing her shift , I ventured to open my left eye , and gave a little peep towards the Statue . 
That look was my last ! The Glory which surrounded the Virgin was too great to be supported . 
They expressed their wonder at the extent of his travels , and at the strange adventures which He had met with at so early an age . 
They now remarked his Guitar , and enquired whether he was an adept in Music . 
He replied with modesty that it was not for him to decide upon his talents , but requested permission to appeal to them as Judges . 
This was granted without difficulty . 
'But at least , said the old Porteress , 'take care not to sing any thing profane . 
'But is the adventure true ? enquired the Porteress . 
It happened in Denmark , and the Heroine was thought so beautiful that She was known by no other name but that of ''the lovely Maid'' . 
Theodore now put his instrument in proper order . 
His Guitar was now in tune , and He prepared to strike it . 
'But before I begin , said He 'it is necessary to inform you , Ladies , that this same Denmark is terribly infested by Sorcerers , Witches , and Evil Spirits . 
Every element possesses its appropriate Daemons . 
THE WATER KING A DANISH BALLAD With gentle murmur flowed the Tide , While by the fragrant flowery side The lovely Maid with carols gay To Mary's Church pursued her way . 
The Witch She gave him armour white She formed him like a gallant Knight Of water clear next made her hand A Steed , whose housings were of sand . 
The Water King then swift He went To Mary's Church his steps He bent He bound his Courser to the Door , And paced the Church yard three times four . 
His Courser to the door bound He , And paced the Church yard four time three Then hastened up the Aisle , where all The People flocked , both great and small . 
The Priest their hands together joins They dance , while clear the moon beam shines And little thinks the Maiden bright , Her Partner is the Water spright . 
Oh ! had some spirit deigned to sing , 'Your Partner is the Water King ! The Maid had fear and hate confest , And cursed the hand which then She prest . 
But nothing giving cause to think , How near She strayed to danger's brink , Still on She went , and hand in hand The Lovers reached the yellow sand . 
'Ascend this Steed with me , my Dear We needs must cross the streamlet here Ride boldly in It is not deep The winds are hushed , the billows sleep . 
Thus spoke the Water King . 
The Maid Her Traitor Bride groom's wish obeyed And soon She saw the Courser lave Delighted in his parent wave . 
'Stop ! Stop ! my Love ! For now I see The waters rise above my knee . 
'Oh ! lay aside your fears , sweet Heart ! We now have reached the deepest part . 
She shrieks , but shrieks in vain for high The wild winds rising dull the cry The Fiend exults The Billows dash , And o'er their hapless Victim wash . 
Three times while struggling with the stream , The lovely Maid was heard to scream But when the Tempest's rage was o'er , The lovely Maid was seen no more . 
His artifice had not succeeded . 
He paused in vain between the Stanzas No voice replied to his , and He abandoned the hope of equalling Blondel . 
The Convent Bell now warned the Nuns that it was time to assemble in the Refectory . 
They were obliged to quit the Grate They thanked the Youth for the entertainment which his Music had afforded them , and charged him to return the next day . 
Having received these gifts with seeming respect and gratitude , He remarked that , having no Basket , He knew not how to convey them away . 
'Hah ! said the Porteress 'Here comes the Mother St . 
'Here is my gift , said She , as She gave it into his hand 'Good Youth , despise it not Though its value seems insignificant , it has many hidden virtues . 
She accompanied these words with an expressive look . 
It was not lost upon Theodore In receiving the present , He drew as near the Grate as possible . 
'Agnes ! She whispered in a voice scarcely intelligible . 
Theodore , however , caught the sound He concluded that some mystery was concealed in the Basket , and his heart beat with impatience and joy . 
At this moment the Domina returned . 
Her air was gloomy and frowning , and She looked if possible more stern than ever . 
Ursula , I would speak with you in private . 
The Nun changed colour , and was evidently disconcerted . 
'With me ? She replied in a faltering voice . 
The Domina motioned that She must follow her , and retired . 
Ursula obeyed her Soon after , the Refectory Bell ringing a second time , the Nuns quitted the Grate , and Theodore was left at liberty to carry off his prize . 
Delighted that at length He had obtained some intelligence for the Marquis , He flew rather than ran , till He reached the Hotel de las Cisternas . 
In a few minutes He stood by his Master's Bed with the Basket in his hand . 
Lorenzo was in the chamber , endeavouring to reconcile his Friend to a misfortune which He felt himself but too severely . 
Theodore related his adventure , and the hopes which had been created by the Mother St . 
The Marquis started from his pillow That fire which since the death of Agnes had been extinguished , now revived in his bosom , and his eyes sparkled with the eagerness of expectation . 
The emotions which Lorenzo's countenance betrayed , were scarcely weaker , and He waited with inexpressible impatience for the solution of this mystery . 
Raymond caught the basket from the hands of his Page He emptied the contents upon the bed , and examined them with minute attention . 
He hoped that a letter would be found at the bottom Nothing of the kind appeared . 
The search was resumed , and still with no better success . 
At length Don Raymond observed that one corner of the blue satin lining was unripped He tore it open hastily , and drew forth a small scrap of paper neither folded or sealed . 
It was addressed to the Marquis de las Cisternas , and the contents were as follows . 
Having recognised your Page , I venture to send these few lines . 
Procure an order from the Cardinal Duke for seizing my Person , and that of the Domina But let it not be executed till Friday at midnight . 
It is the Festival of St . 
Clare There will be a procession of Nuns by torch light , and I shall be among them . 
Beware not to let your intention be known Should a syllable be dropt to excite the Domina's suspicions , you will never hear of me more . 
Be cautious , if you prize the memory of Agnes , and wish to punish her Assassins . 
I have that to tell , will freeze your blood with horror . 
No sooner had the Marquis read the note than He fell back upon his pillow deprived of sense or motion . 
The hope failed him which till now had supported his existence and these lines convinced him but too positively that Agnes was indeed no more . 
Lorenzo felt this circumstance less forcibly , since it had always been his idea that his Sister had perished by unfair means . 
When He found by the Mother St . 
Ursula's letter how true were his suspicions , the confirmation excited no other sentiment in his bosom than a wish to punish the Murderers as they deserved . 
It was no easy task to recall the Marquis to himself . 
As soon as He recovered his speech , He broke out into execrations against the Assassins of his Beloved , and vowed to take upon them a signal vengeance . 
He continued to rave and torment himself with impotent passion till his constitution , enfeebled by grief and illness , could support itself no longer , and He relapsed into insensibility . 
His melancholy situation sincerely affected Lorenzo , who would willingly have remained in the apartment of his Friend But other cares now demanded his presence . 
It was necessary to procure the order for seizing the Prioress of St . 
His disappointment was excessive , when He found that affairs of State had obliged the Cardinal to set out for a distant Province . 
It wanted but five to Friday Yet by travelling day and night , He hoped to return in time for the Pilgrimage of St . 
He found the Cardinal Duke and represented to him the supposed culpability of the Prioress , as also the violent effects which it had produced upon Don Raymond . 
He could have used no argument so forcible as this last . 
Consequently , He granted the order of arrest without difficulty He also gave Lorenzo a letter to a principal Officer of the Inquisition , desiring him to see his mandate executed . 
Furnished with these papers , Medina hastened back to Madrid , which He reached on the Friday a few hours before dark . 
He found the Marquis somewhat easier , but so weak and exhausted that without great exertion He could neither speak or more . 
Having past an hour by his Bedside , Lorenzo left him to communicate his design to his Uncle , as also to give Don Ramirez de Mello the Cardinal's letter . 
The First was petrified with horror when He learnt the fate of his unhappy Niece He encouraged Lorenzo to punish her Assassins , and engaged to accompany him at night to St . 
Don Ramirez promised his firmest support , and selected a band of trusty Archers to prevent opposition on the part of the Populace . 
But while Lorenzo was anxious to unmask one religious Hypocrite , He was unconscious of the sorrows prepared for him by Another . 
Aided by Matilda's infernal Agents , Ambrosio had resolved upon the innocent Antonia's ruin . 
The moment destined to be so fatal to her arrived . 
She had taken leave of her Mother for the night . 
As She kissed her , She felt an unusual despondency infuse itself into her bosom . 
She was this Evening more than usually indisposed , and retired to bed before her accustomed hour . 
Antonia withdrew from her Mother's chamber with regret , and till the Door closed , kept her eyes fixed upon her with melancholy expression . 
She sank into a Chair , reclined her head upon her arm , and gazed upon the floor with a vacant stare , while the most gloomy images floated before her fancy . 
She was still in this state of insensibility when She was disturbed by hearing a strain of soft Music breathed beneath her window . 
She rose , drew near the Casement , and opened it to hear it more distinctly . 
Having thrown her veil over her face , She ventured to look out . 
She was not deceived in this conjecture . 
His stratagem had not the desired effect . 
The air which was played , was plaintive and melodious . 
It accorded with the state of Antonia's mind , and She listened with pleasure . 
After a symphony of some length , it was succeeded by the sound of voices , and Antonia distinguished the following words . 
SERENADE Chorus Oh ! Breathe in gentle strain , my Lyre ! 'Tis here that Beauty loves to rest Describe the pangs of fond desire , Which rend a faithful Lover's breast . 
The Music ceased The Performers dispersed , and silence prevailed through the Street . 
Antonia quitted the window with regret She as usual recommended herself to the protection of St . 
Rosolia , said her accustomed prayers , and retired to bed . 
Sleep was not long absent , and his presence relieved her from her terrors and inquietude It was almost two o'clock before the lustful Monk ventured to bend his steps towards Antonia's dwelling . 
It has been already mentioned that the Abbey was at no great distance from the Strada di San Iago . 
He reached the House unobserved . 
Here He stopped , and hesitated for a moment . 
The result of the Monk's deliberations was that He should proceed in his enterprize . 
He ascended the steps leading to the House . 
No sooner did He touch the door with the silver Myrtle , than it flew open , and presented him with a free passage . 
He entered , and the door closed after him of its own accord . 
Guided by the moonbeams , He proceeded up the Staircase with slow and cautious steps . 
He looked round him every moment with apprehension and anxiety . 
He saw a Spy in every shadow , and heard a voice in every murmur of the night breeze . 
Consciousness of the guilty business on which He was employed appalled his heart , and rendered it more timid than a Woman's . 
He reached the door of Antonia's chamber . 
He stopped , and listened . 
The total silence persuaded him that his intended Victim was retired to rest , and He ventured to lift up the Latch . 
The door was fastened , and resisted his efforts But no sooner was it touched by the Talisman , than the Bolt flew back . 
The Ravisher stept on , and found himself in the chamber , where slept the innocent Girl , unconscious how dangerous a Visitor was drawing near her Couch . 
The door closed after him , and the Bolt shot again into its fastening . 
He took care that not a board should creak under his foot , and held in his breath as He approached the Bed . 
The effects which it had already produced permitted not his doubting its success in prolonging the slumbers of his devoted Mistress . 
No sooner was the enchantment performed than He considered her to be absolutely in his power , and his eyes flamed with lust and impatience . 
He now ventured to cast a glance upon the sleeping Beauty . 
A single Lamp , burning before the Statue of St . 
Rosolia , shed a faint light through the room , and permitted him to examine all the charms of the lovely Object before him . 
The heat of the weather had obliged her to throw off part of the Bed cloathes Those which still covered her , Ambrosio's insolent hand hastened to remove . 
She lay with her cheek reclining upon one ivory arm The Other rested on the side of the Bed with graceful indolence . 
A few tresses of her hair had escaped from beneath the Muslin which confined the rest , and fell carelessly over her bosom , as it heaved with slow and regular suspiration . 
The warm air had spread her cheek with higher colour than usual . 
A smile inexpressibly sweet played round her ripe and coral lips , from which every now and then escaped a gentle sigh or an half pronounced sentence . 
An air of enchanting innocence and candour pervaded her whole form and there was a sort of modesty in her very nakedness which added fresh stings to the desires of the lustful Monk . 
He remained for some moments devouring those charms with his eyes which soon were to be subjected to his ill regulated passions . 
Her mouth half opened seemed to solicit a kiss He bent over her he joined his lips to hers , and drew in the fragrance of her breath with rapture . 
This momentary pleasure increased his longing for still greater . 
His desires were raised to that frantic height by which Brutes are agitated . 
He resolved not to delay for one instant longer the accomplishment of his wishes , and hastily proceeded to tear off those garments which impeded the gratification of his lust . 
He started , and turned towards it . 
Elvira stood at the door of the chamber , and regarded the Monk with looks of surprize and detestation . 
A frightful dream had represented to her Antonia on the verge of a precipice . 
The vision had made too strong an impression upon her mind , to permit her resting till assured of her Daughter's safety . 
His shame and her amazement seemed to have petrified into Statues both Elvira and the Monk They remained gazing upon each other in silence . 
The Lady was the first to recover herself . 
Silence would now be criminal The whole City shall be informed of your incontinence . 
I will unmask you , Villain , and convince the Church what a Viper She cherishes in her bosom . 
Pale and confused the baffled Culprit stood trembling before her . 
He would fain have extenuated his offence , but could find no apology for his conduct He could produce nothing but broken sentences , and excuses which contradicted each other . 
Elvira was too justly incensed to grant the pardon which He requested . 
She protested that She would raise the neighbourhood , and make him an example to all future Hypocrites . 
Then hastening to the Bed , She called to Antonia to wake and finding that her voice had no effect , She took her arm , and raised her forcibly from the pillow . 
The charm operated too powerfully . 
Antonia remained insensible , and on being released by her Mother , sank back upon the pillow . 
'This slumber cannot be natural ! cried the amazed Elvira , whose indignation increased with every moment . 
Forgive my transgression ! Spare me the shame of a discovery , and permit me to regain the Abbey undisturbed . 
Grant me this request in mercy ! I promise not only that Antonia shall be secure from me in future , but that the rest of my life shall prove . 
What Ho ! there ! Flora ! Flora , I say ! While She spoke thus , the remembrance of Agnes struck upon his mind . 
With this idea He gathered up such garments as He had already thrown off , and hastened towards the Door . 
Elvira was aware of his design She followed him , and ere He could draw back the bolt , seized him by the arm , and detained him . 
'Attempt not to fly ! said She 'You quit not this room without Witnesses of your guilt . 
Ambrosio struggled in vain to disengage himself . 
Elvira quitted not her hold , but redoubled her cries for succour . 
The Friar's danger grew more urgent . 
He expected every moment to hear people assembling at her voice And worked up to madness by the approach of ruin , He adopted a resolution equally desperate and savage . 
He succeeded but too well . 
Her natural strength increased by the excess of anguish , long did the Sufferer struggle to disengage herself , but in vain . 
Those agonies at length were over . 
She ceased to struggle for life . 
The Monk took off the pillow , and gazed upon her . 
Ambrosio beheld before him that once noble and majestic form , now become a Corse , cold , senseless and disgusting . 
This horrible act was no sooner perpetrated , than the Friar beheld the enormity of his crime . 
A cold dew flowed over his limbs his eyes closed He staggered to a chair , and sank into it almost as lifeless as the Unfortunate who lay extended at his feet . 
From this state He was rouzed by the necessity of flight , and the danger of being found in Antonia's apartment . 
He had no desire to profit by the execution of his crime . 
Antonia now appeared to him an object of disgust . 
Agitated by remorse and fear He prepared for flight Yet his terrors did not so compleatly master his recollection , as to prevent his taking the precautions necessary for his safety . 
He replaced the pillow upon the bed , gathered up his garments , and with the fatal Talisman in his hand , bent his unsteady steps towards the door . 
The enchanted Myrtle produced its former effect . 
The door opened , and He hastened down the staircase . 
He entered the Abbey unobserved , and having shut himself into his Cell , He abandoned his soul to the tortures of unavailing remorse , and terrors of impending detection . 
I've heard that Souls departed have sometimes Fore warned Men of their deaths 'Twas kindly done To knock , and give the alarum . 
Ambrosio shuddered at himself , when He reflected on his rapid advances in iniquity . 
The enormous crime which He had just committed filled him with real horror . 
The murdered Elvira was continually before his eyes , and his guilt was already punished by the agonies of his conscience . 
Time , however , considerably weakened these impressions One day passed away , another followed it , and still not the least suspicion was thrown upon him . 
Impunity reconciled him to his guilt He began to resume his spirits and as his fears of detection died away , He paid less attention to the reproaches of remorse . 
Matilda exerted herself to quiet his alarms . 
Those designs She encouraged him not to abandon . 
In this endeavour She succeeded but too well . 
As if the crimes into which his passion had seduced him had only increased its violence , He longed more eagerly than ever to enjoy Antonia . 
The same success in concealing his present guilt , He trusted would attend his future . 
He was deaf to the murmurs of conscience , and resolved to satisfy his desires at any price . 
He waited only for an opportunity of repeating his former enterprize But to procure that opportunity by the same means was now impracticable . 
He therefore resolutely refused to enter into any bond or compact with the Fiends and Matilda finding him obstinate upon this point , forbore to press him further . 
She exerted her invention to discover some means of putting Antonia into the Abbot's power Nor was it long before that means presented itself . 
While her ruin was thus meditating , the unhappy Girl herself suffered severely from the loss of her Mother . 
Every morning on waking , it was her first care to hasten to Elvira's chamber . 
On that which followed Ambrosio's fatal visit , She woke later than was her usual custom Of this She was convinced by the Abbey Chimes . 
What was her horror at recognizing Elvira's livid Corse ! She uttered a loud shriek , and threw herself upon the floor . 
The cry had alarmed Flora , who hastened to her assistance . 
The sight which She beheld penetrated her with horror but her alarm was more audible than Antonia's . 
She made the House ring with her lamentations , while her Mistress , almost suffocated with grief , could only mark her distress by sobs and groans . 
Flora's shrieks soon reached the ears of the Hostess , whose terror and surprize were excessive on learning the cause of this disturbance . 
A Physician was immediately sent for But on the first moment of beholding the Corse , He declared that Elvira's recovery was beyond the power of art . 
He proceeded therefore to give his assistance to Antonia , who by this time was truly in need of it . 
She was conveyed to bed , while the Landlady busied herself in giving orders for Elvira's Burial . 
Dame Jacintha was a plain good kind of Woman , charitable , generous , and devout But her intellects were weak , and She was a Miserable Slave to fear and superstition . 
From this persuasion , She resolved to pass the night at a Neighbour's , and insisted that the Funeral should take place the next day . 
Clare's Cemetery being the nearest , it was determined that Elvira should be buried there . 
Dame Jacintha engaged to defray every expence attending the burial . 
She knew not in what circumstances Antonia was left , but from the sparing manner in which the Family had lived , She concluded them to be indifferent . 
Nobody dies of mere grief Of this Antonia was an instance . 
Aided by her youth and healthy constitution , She shook off the malady which her Mother's death had occasioned But it was not so easy to remove the disease of her mind . 
Her eyes were constantly filled with tears Every trifle affected her , and She evidently nourished in her bosom a profound and rooted melancholy . 
The slightest mention of Elvira , the most trivial circumstance recalling that beloved Parent to her memory , was sufficient to throw her into serious agitation . 
How much would her grief have been increased , had She known the agonies which terminated her Mother's existence ! But of this no one entertained the least suspicion . 
In truth Antonia's situation was sufficiently embarrassing and unpleasant . 
She was alone in the midst of a dissipated and expensive City She was ill provided with money , and worse with Friends . 
Her aunt Leonella was still at Cordova , and She knew not her direction . 
Of the Marquis de las Cisternas She heard no news As to Lorenzo , She had long given up the idea of possessing any interest in his bosom . 
She knew not to whom She could address herself in her present dilemma . 
Still all her Mother's warnings could not make her change her good opinion of the Friar . 
However , Elvira had positively commanded her to drop his acquaintance , and She had too much respect for her orders to disobey them . 
At length She resolved to address herself for advice and protection to the Marquis de las Cisternas , as being her nearest Relation . 
Having sealed her letter , She gave it to the trusty Flora , who immediately set out to execute her commission . 
But Antonia was born under an unlucky Star . 
He had commissioned Lorenzo to supply her liberally with money But Elvira , unwilling to receive obligations from that Nobleman , had assured him that She needed no immediate pecuniary assistance . 
Consequently , the Marquis did not imagine that a trifling delay on his part could create any embarrassment and the distress and agitation of his mind might well excuse his negligence . 
The day on which She sent her letter to the Palace de las Cisternas was that following Lorenzo's departure from Madrid . 
Flora was informed that He was incapable of attending to Letters , and that probably a few hours would decide his fate . 
With this unsatisfactory answer She was obliged to return to her Mistress , who now found herself plunged into greater difficulties than ever . 
Flora and Dame Jacintha exerted themselves to console her . 
The Latter begged her to make herself easy , for that as long as She chose to stay with her , She would treat her like her own Child . 
Antonia , finding that the good Woman had taken a real affection for her , was somewhat comforted by thinking that She had at least one Friend in the World . 
A Letter was now brought to her , directed to Elvira . 
She recognized Leonella's writing , and opening it with joy , found a detailed account of her Aunt's adventures at Cordova . 
She added that She should be at Madrid on the Tuesday night , and meant to have the pleasure of presenting her Caro Sposo in form . 
Though her nuptials were far from pleasing Antonia , Leonella's speedy return gave her Niece much delight . 
She rejoiced in thinking that She should once more be under a Relation's care . 
She therefore looked forward with impatience to the Tuesday night . 
Antonia listened anxiously to the Carriages , as they rolled along the Street . 
None of them stopped , and it grew late without Leonella's appearing . 
Still , Antonia resolved to sit up till her Aunt's arrival , and in spite of all her remonstrances , Dame Jacintha and Flora insisted upon doing the same . 
The hours passed on slow and tediously . 
Lorenzo's departure from Madrid had put a stop to the nightly Serenades She hoped in vain to hear the usual sound of Guitars beneath her window . 
She took up her own , and struck a few chords But Music that evening had lost its charms for her , and She soon replaced the Instrument in its case . 
It was decreed that for that night nothing should have the power of amusing her . 
She was the prey of Ennui , and employed herself in making fruitless wishes for the arrival of her Aunt . 
As She walked with a listless air up and down the chamber , the Door caught her eye conducting to that which had been her Mother's . 
She remembered that Elvira's little Library was arranged there , and thought that She might possibly find in it some Book to amuse her till Leonella should arrive . 
Accordingly She took her Taper from the table , passed through the little Closet , and entered the adjoining apartment . 
As She looked around her , the sight of this room brought to her recollection a thousand painful ideas . 
It was the first time of her entering it since her Mother's death . 
The gloom of night gave strength to this sensation . 
She placed her light upon the Table , and sank into a large chair , in which She had seen her Mother seated a thousand and a thousand times . 
She was never to see her seated there again ! Tears unbidden streamed down her cheek , and She abandoned herself to the sadness which grew deeper with every moment . 
Ashamed of her weakness , She at length rose from her seat She proceeded to seek for what had brought her to this melancholy scene . 
The small collection of Books was arranged upon several shelves in order . 
Antonia examined them without finding any thing likely to interest her , till She put her hand upon a volume of old Spanish Ballads . 
She read a few Stanzas of one of them They excited her curiosity . 
She took down the Book , and seated herself to peruse it with more ease . 
She trimmed the Taper , which now drew towards its end , and then read the following Ballad . 
At length spoke the Bride , while She trembled 'I pray , Sir Knight , that your Helmet aside you would lay , And deign to partake of our chear . 
The Lady is silent The Stranger complies . 
His vizor lie slowly unclosed Oh ! God ! what a sight met Fair Imogine's eyes ! What words can express her dismay and surprize , When a Skeleton's head was exposed . 
All present then uttered a terrified shout All turned with disgust from the scene . 
The worms , They crept in , and the worms , They crept out , And sported his eyes and his temples about , While the Spectre addressed Imogine . 
While They drink out of skulls newly torn from the grave , Dancing round them the Spectres are seen Their liquor is blood , and this horrible Stave They howl . 
'To the health of Alonzo the Brave , And his Consort , the False Imogine ! The perusal of this story was ill calculated to dispel Antonia's melancholy . 
Antonia still nourished a superstitious prejudice in her bosom She was often susceptible of terrors which , when She discovered their natural and insignificant cause , made her blush at her own weakness . 
With such a turn of mind , the adventure which She had just been reading sufficed to give her apprehensions the alarm . 
The hour and the scene combined to authorize them . 
It was the dead of night She was alone , and in the chamber once occupied by her deceased Mother . 
The weather was comfortless and stormy The wind howled around the House , the doors rattled in their frames , and the heavy rain pattered against the windows . 
No other sound was heard . 
The Taper , now burnt down to the socket , sometimes flaring upwards shot a gleam of light through the room , then sinking again seemed upon the point of expiring . 
Antonia's heart throbbed with agitation Her eyes wandered fearfully over the objects around her , as the trembling flame illuminated them at intervals . 
She attempted to rise from her seat But her limbs trembled so violently that She was unable to proceed . 
She then called Flora , who was in a room at no great distance But agitation choaked her voice , and her cries died away in hollow murmurs . 
She passed some minutes in this situation , after which her terrors began to diminish . 
She strove to recover herself , and acquire strength enough to quit the room Suddenly She fancied , that She heard a low sigh drawn near her . 
This idea brought back her former weakness . 
She had already raised herself from her seat , and was on the point of taking the Lamp from the Table . 
The imaginary noise stopped her She drew back her hand , and supported herself upon the back of a Chair . 
She listened anxiously , but nothing more was heard . 
Antonia's alarm increased Yet the Bolt She knew to be fastened , and this idea in some degree reassured her . 
Presently the Latch was lifted up softly , and the Door moved with caution backwards and forwards . 
Excess of terror now supplied Antonia with that strength , of which She had till then been deprived . 
She started from her place and made towards the Closet door , whence She might soon have reached the chamber where She expected to find Flora and Dame Jacintha . 
Scarcely had She reached the middle of the room when the Latch was lifted up a second time . 
An involuntary movement obliged her to turn her head . 
This vision arrested her feet She remained as if petrified in the middle of the apartment . 
The Stranger with measured and solemn steps drew near the Table . 
The dying Taper darted a blue and melancholy flame as the Figure advanced towards it . 
Over the Table was fixed a small Clock The hand of it was upon the stroke of three . 
The figure remained in this posture for some moments . 
When the sound had ceased , the Stranger advanced yet a few steps nearer Antonia . 
'Yet three days , said a voice faint , hollow , and sepulchral 'Yet three days , and we meet again ! Antonia shuddered at the words . 
'Almighty God ! My Mother ! Antonia shrieked , and fell lifeless upon the floor . 
Jacintha therefore hastened alone to Antonia's assistance , and great was her amazement to find her extended upon the floor . 
She raised her in her arms , conveyed her to her apartment , and placed her upon the Bed still senseless . 
She then proceeded to bathe her temples , chafe her hands , and use all possible means of bringing her to herself . 
With some difficulty She succeeded . 
Antonia opened her eyes , and looked round her wildly . 
As She hastened down stairs , She met Flora ascending them . 
But go your way to Donna Antonia , Flora , and let me go mine . 
In the meanwhile , Flora hastened to her Lady's chamber , equally surprized and alarmed at Jacintha's consternation . 
She found Antonia lying upon the bed insensible . 
While expecting his arrival , She undrest Antonia , and conveyed her to Bed . 
Heedless of the storm , terrified almost out of her senses , Jacintha ran through the Streets , and stopped not till She reached the Gate of the Abbey . 
She rang loudly at the bell , and as soon as the Porter appeared , She desired permission to speak to the Superior . 
Ambrosio was then conferring with Matilda upon the means of procuring access to Antonia . 
This persuasion made him resolve upon Antonia's ruin , for the enjoyment of whose person dangers and difficulties only seemed to have increased his passion . 
The Monk had already made one attempt to gain admission to her presence But Flora had refused him in such a manner as to convince him that all future endeavours must be vain . 
Elvira had confided her suspicions to that trusty Servant She had desired her never to leave Ambrosio alone with her Daughter , and if possible to prevent their meeting altogether . 
Flora promised to obey her , and had executed her orders to the very letter . 
Ambrosio's visit had been rejected that morning , though Antonia was ignorant of it . 
Such was their employment , when a Lay Brother entered the Abbot's Cell , and informed him that a Woman calling herself Jacintha Zuniga requested audience for a few minutes . 
Ambrosio was by no means disposed to grant the petition of his Visitor . 
He refused it positively , and bad the Lay Brother tell the Stranger to return the next day . 
'See this Woman , said She in a low voice 'I have my reasons . 
The Abbot obeyed her , and signified that He would go to the Parlour immediately . 
With this answer the Lay Brother withdrew . 
As soon as they were alone Ambrosio enquired why Matilda wished him to see this Jacintha . 
'She is Antonia's Hostess , replied Matilda 'She may possibly be of use to you but let us examine her , and learn what brings her hither . 
They proceeded together to the Parlour , where Jacintha was already waiting for the Abbot . 
Filled with this persuasion She had hastened to the Abbey . 
As soon as She saw the Monk enter the Parlour , She dropped upon her knees , and began her story as follows . 
'Oh ! Reverend Father ! Such an accident ! Such an adventure ! I know not what course to take , and unless you can help me , I shall certainly go distracted . 
What signifies my telling my beads four times a day , and observing every fast prescribed by the Calendar ? What signifies my having made three Pilgrimages to St . 
'In truth , good Woman , replied He , 'It will be difficult for me to relieve you without knowing what is the matter with you . 
You have forgotten to tell me what has happened , and what it is you want . 
'Let me die' cried Jacintha , 'but your Sanctity is in the right ! This then is the fact stated briefly . 
Yet for all her pride , She was a quiet well behaved Body , and I never wish to have a better Lodger . 
told me that there was no more harm in eating a Chicken than the egg from which it came . 
''Dame Jacintha , '' said She , very good humouredly , though to say the truth , She was always very polite to me . 
Here Ambrosio's patience failed him . 
Eager to know Jacintha's business in which Antonia seemed to be concerned , He was almost distracted while listening to the rambling of this prosing old Woman . 
This threat had the desired effect . 
Jacintha related her business in as few words as She could manage But her account was still so prolix that Ambrosio had need of his patience to bear him to the conclusion . 
it directly came into my head , that if any one had power to quiet this Spectre , it must be your Reverence . 
So hither I came in all diligence , to beg that you will sprinkle my House with holy water , and lay the Apparition in the Red Sea . 
Ambrosio stared at this strange story , which He could not credit . 
'Did Donna Antonia also see the Ghost ? said He . 
'As plain as I see you , Reverend Father ! Ambrosio paused for a moment . 
Here was an opportunity offered him of gaining access to Antonia , but He hesitated to employ it . 
The reputation which He enjoyed in Madrid was still dear to him and since He had lost the reality of virtue , it appeared as if its semblance was become more valuable . 
He was conscious that publicly to break through the rule never to quit the Abbey precincts , would derogate much from his supposed austerity . 
In visiting Elvira , He had always taken care to keep his features concealed from the Domestics . 
Except by the Lady , her Daughter , and the faithful Flora , He was known in the Family by no other name than that of Father Jerome . 
Should He comply with Jacintha's request , and accompany her to her House , He knew that the violation of his rule could not be kept a secret . 
An expressive look from Matilda confirmed him in this resolution . 
'Good Woman , said He to Jacintha , 'what you tell me is so extraordinary that I can scarcely credit your assertions . 
However , I will comply with your request . 
But for God's sake , reverend Father , come with me now . 
I shall have no rest till the House is purified , or the poor young Lady either . 
The dear Girl ! She is in a piteous taking I left her in strong convulsions , and I doubt , She will not easily recover her fright . 
The Friar started , and interrupted her hastily . 
So strong an impression had the Spectre made upon Antonia , that for the first two or three hours the Physician declared her life to be in danger . 
The fits at length becoming less frequent induced him to alter his opinion . 
The sight of Ambrosio , who now appeared with Jacintha at her Bedside , contributed essentially to compose her ruffled spirits . 
Elvira had not sufficiently explained herself upon the nature of his designs , to make a Girl so ignorant of the world as her Daughter aware how dangerous was his acquaintance . 
She thanked him gratefully for his visit , and related to him the adventure , which had alarmed her so seriously . 
The Abbot strove to reassure her , and convince her that the whole had been a deception of her overheated fancy . 
He treated the idea of Ghosts with ridicule , and produced strong arguments to prove the fallacy of such a system . 
His conversation tranquillized and comforted her , but did not convince her . 
She persisted in asserting that She had really seen her Mother's Ghost , had heard the period of her dissolution announced and declared that She never should quit her bed alive . 
Ambrosio advised her against encouraging these sentiments , and then quitted her chamber , having promised to repeat his visit on the morrow . 
Antonia received this assurance with every mark of joy But the Monk easily perceived that He was not equally acceptable to her Attendant . 
Flora obeyed Elvira's injunctions with the most scrupulous observance . 
She examined every circumstance with an anxious eye likely in the least to prejudice her young Mistress , to whom She had been attached for many years . 
She was a Native of Cuba , had followed Elvira to Spain , and loved the young Antonia with a Mother's affection . 
Flora quitted not the room for a moment while the Abbot remained there She watched his every word , his every look , his every action . 
He saw that her suspicious eye was always fixed upon him , and conscious that his designs would not bear inspection so minute , He felt frequently confused and disconcerted . 
As He quitted the House , Jacintha met him , and begged that some Masses might be sung for the repose of Elvira's soul , which She doubted not was suffering in Purgatory . 
He promised not to forget her request But He perfectly gained the old Woman's heart by engaging to watch during the whole of the approaching night in the haunted chamber . 
Jacintha could find no terms sufficiently strong to express her gratitude , and the Monk departed loaded with her benedictions . 
It was broad day when He returned to the Abbey . 
His first care was to communicate what had past to his Confident . 
He felt too sincere a passion for Antonia to have heard unmoved the prediction of her speedy death , and He shuddered at the idea of losing an object so dear to him . 
Upon this head Matilda reassured him . 
Having overruled the Monk's apprehensions , Matilda continued thus . 
'The prediction and the Ghost are equally false But it must be your care , Ambrosio , to verify the first . 
Antonia within three days must indeed be dead to the world But She must live for you . 
She shall be yours , not for a single night , but for ever . 
All the vigilance of her Duenna shall not avail her You shall riot unrestrained in the charms of your Mistress . 
This very day must the scheme be put in execution , for you have no time to lose . 
Thus during your absence have I been informed by my Spies , who are ever employed in bringing me intelligence for your service . 
Now then listen to me . 
There is a juice extracted from certain herbs , known but to few , which brings on the Person who drinks it the exact image of Death . 
Let this be administered to Antonia You may easily find means to pour a few drops into her medicine . 
She has no Friends about her You may charge yourself unsuspected with the superintendence of her funeral , and cause her to be buried in the Vaults of St . 
Their solitude and easy access render these Caverns favourable to your designs . 
Give Antonia the soporific draught this Evening Eight and forty hours after She has drank it , Life will revive to her bosom . 
She will then be absolutely in your power She will find all resistance unavailing , and necessity will compel her to receive you in her arms . 
Ambrosio , I live but to serve you Your interest and happiness are equally mine . 
Be your person Antonia's , but to your friendship and your heart I still assert my claim . 
Contributing to yours forms now my only pleasure . 
Should my exertions procure the gratification of your wishes , I shall consider my trouble to be amply repaid . 
But let us lose no time . 
The liquor of which I spoke is only to be found in St . 
Hasten then to the Prioress Request of her admission to the Laboratory , and it will not be denied . 
There is a Closet at the lower end of the great Room , filled with liquids of different colours and qualities . 
The Bottle in question stands by itself upon the third shelf on the left . 
It contains a greenish liquor Fill a small phial with it when you are unobserved , and Antonia is your own . 
The Monk hesitated not to adopt this infamous plan . 
His desires , but too violent before , had acquired fresh vigour from the sight of Antonia . 
Scarcely could He master himself sufficiently to conceal his desires from Antonia and her vigilant Duenna . 
Inflamed by the remembrance of these beauties , He entered into Matilda's scheme without hesitation . 
No sooner were Matins over than He bent his course towards the Convent of St . 
Clare His arrival threw the whole Sisterhood into the utmost amazement . 
The Prioress was sensible of the honour done her Convent by his paying it his first visit , and strove to express her gratitude by every possible attention . 
He was paraded through the Garden , shown all the reliques of Saints and Martyrs , and treated with as much respect and distinction as had He been the Pope himself . 
On his part , Ambrosio received the Domina's civilities very graciously , and strove to remove her surprize at his having broken through his resolution . 
He stated , that among his penitents , illness prevented many from quitting their Houses . 
The Prioress applauded his zeal in his profession and his charity towards Mankind She declared that Madrid was happy in possessing a Man so perfect and irreproachable . 
In such discourse , the Friar at length reached the Laboratory . 
He found the Closet The Bottle stood in the place which Matilda had described , and the Monk seized an opportunity to fill his phial unobserved with the soporific liquor . 
He waited till Evening before He took the road to Antonia's dwelling . 
Jacintha welcomed him with transport , and besought him not to forget his promise to pass the night in the haunted Chamber That promise He now repeated . 
He found Antonia tolerably well , but still harping upon the Ghost's prediction . 
Flora moved not from her Lady's Bed , and by symptoms yet stronger than on the former night testified her dislike to the Abbot's presence . 
Still Ambrosio affected not to observe them . 
The Physician arrived , while He was conversing with Antonia . 
It was dark already Lights were called for , and Flora was compelled to descend for them herself . 
However , as She left a third Person in the room , and expected to be absent but a few minutes , She believed that She risqued nothing in quitting her post . 
No sooner had She left the room , than Ambrosio moved towards the Table , on which stood Antonia's medicine It was placed in a recess of the window . 
The Physician seated in an armed chair , and employed in questioning his Patient , paid no attention to the proceedings of the Monk . 
Ambrosio seized the opportunity He drew out the fatal Phial , and let a few drops fall into the medicine . 
He then hastily left the Table , and returned to the seat which He had quitted . 
When Flora made her appearance with lights , every thing seemed to be exactly as She had left it . 
The Physician declared that Antonia might quit her chamber the next day with perfect safety . 
Flora poured the medicine into a Cup and presented it to her Mistress . 
At that moment Ambrosio's courage failed him . 
His resolution was adopted too late The Cup was already emptied , and Antonia restored it into Flora's hands . 
No remedy was now to be found Ambrosio could only expect the moment impatiently , destined to decide upon Antonia's life or death , upon his own happiness or despair . 
Dreading to create suspicion by his stay , or betray himself by his mind's agitation , He took leave of his Victim , and withdrew from the room . 
Antonia parted from him with less cordiality than on the former night . 
The idea of obeying her Mother's will at once determined Antonia . 
Though She grieved at losing his society , She conquered herself sufficiently to receive the Monk with some degree of reserve and coldness . 
She thanked him with respect and gratitude for his former visits , but did not invite his repeating them in future . 
It now was not the Friar's interest to solicit admission to her presence , and He took leave of her as if not designing to return . 
The Monk in replying took pains to raise his voice , hoping that Jacintha would hear it . 
In this He succeeded As He reached the foot of the Stairs with his Conductress , the Landlady failed not to make her appearance . 
He told Jacintha that the Ghost existed nowhere but in her own brain , and that her insisting upon his staying all night in the House was ridiculous and useless . 
Jacintha was obstinate She was not to be convinced , and pressed him so urgently not to leave her a prey to the Devil , that at length He granted her request . 
All this show of resistance imposed not upon Flora , who was naturally of a suspicious temper . 
She suspected the Monk to be acting a part very contrary to his own inclinations , and that He wished for no better than to remain where He was . 
She even went so far as to believe that Jacintha was in his interest and the poor old Woman was immediately set down , as no better than a Procuress . 
While She applauded herself for having penetrated into this plot against her Lady's honour , She resolved in secret to render it fruitless . 
But instead of showing that He perceived her suspicions He replied mildly that He approved the Duenna's precautions , and advised her to persevere in her intention . 
This , She assured him faithfully that He might depend upon her doing . 
Jacintha then conducted him into the chamber where the Ghost had appeared , and Flora returned to her Lady's . 
Jacintha opened the door of the haunted room with a trembling hand She ventured to peep in But the wealth of India would not have tempted her to cross the threshold . 
She gave the Taper to the Monk , wished him well through the adventure , and hastened to be gone . 
He bolted the door , placed the light upon the Table , and seated himself in the Chair which on the former night had sustained Antonia . 
In spite of Matilda's assurances that the Spectre was a mere creation of fancy , his mind was impressed with a certain mysterious horror . 
He in vain endeavoured to shake it off . 
But He thought much less of the Spectre , than of the poison . 
The supposition was too horrible to dwell upon . 
He drove away these dreadful images , and as often they presented themselves again before him . 
Matilda had assured him that the effects of the Opiate would be speedy . 
He listened with fear , yet with eagerness , expecting to hear some disturbance in the adjoining chamber . 
He concluded that the drops had not begun to operate . 
Great was the stake , for which He now played A moment would suffice to decide upon his misery or happiness . 
Matilda had taught him the means of ascertaining that life was not extinct for ever Upon this assay depended all his hopes . 
With every instant his impatience redoubled His terrors grew more lively , his anxiety more awake . 
Unable to bear this state of incertitude , He endeavoured to divert it by substituting the thoughts of Others to his own . 
The Books , as was before mentioned , were ranged upon shelves near the Table This stood exactly opposite to the Bed , which was placed in an Alcove near the Closet door . 
Ambrosio took down a Volume , and seated himself by the Table But his attention wandered from the Pages before him . 
Antonia's image and that of the murdered Elvira persisted to force themselves before his imagination . 
Still He continued to read , though his eyes ran over the characters without his mind being conscious of their import . 
Such was his occupation , when He fancied that He heard a footstep . 
He turned his head , but nobody was to be seen . 
He resumed his Book But in a few minutes after the same sound was repeated , and followed by a rustling noise close behind him . 
He now started from his seat , and looking round him , perceived the Closet door standing half unclosed . 
On his first entering the room He had tried to open it , but found it bolted on the inside . 
'How is this ? said He to himself 'How comes this door unfastened ? He advanced towards it He pushed it open , and looked into the closet No one was there . 
Ambrosio drew back , and returned to the other room , musing upon the sudden opening of the Closet door , for which He strove in vain to account . 
He paced the chamber up and down in silence . 
At length He stopped , and the Bed attracted his attention . 
The curtain of the Recess was but half drawn . 
'That Bed , said He in a low voice , 'That Bed was Elvira's ! There has She past many a quiet night , for She was good and innocent . 
Great God ! What is that ? As He uttered these words , his eyes which were fixed upon the Bed , saw the curtain shaken gently backwards and forwards . 
The Apparition was recalled to his mind , and He almost fancied that He beheld Elvira's visionary form reclining upon the Bed . 
A few moments consideration sufficed to reassure him . 
'It was only the wind , said He , recovering himself . 
Again He paced the chamber But an involuntary movement of awe and inquietude constantly led his eye towards the Alcove . 
He drew near it with irresolution . 
He paused before He ascended the few steps which led to it . 
He put out his hand thrice to remove the curtain , and as often drew it back . 
Madness and despair now supplied the Monk with that courage , of which He had till then been destitute . 
He flew down the steps , pursued the Apparition , and attempted to grasp it . 
'Ghost , or Devil , I hold you ! He exclaimed , and seized the Spectre by the arm . 
He drew the Intruder towards the Table , and holding up the light , discovered the features of . 
Madona Flora ! Incensed at having been betrayed by this trifling cause into fears so ridiculous , He asked her sternly , what business had brought her to that chamber . 
Flora , ashamed at being found out , and terrified at the severity of Ambrosio's looks , fell upon her knees , and promised to make a full confession . 
'I protest , reverend Father , said She , 'that I am quite grieved at having disturbed you Nothing was further from my intention . 
So with that I left old Dame Jacintha sitting by my Lady's Bed , and I ventured to steal into the Closet . 
Here I lay snug behind the curtain , till your Reverence found me out , and seized me ere I had time to regain the Closet door . 
This is the whole truth , I assure you , Holy Father , and I beg your pardon a thousand times for my impertinence . 
They found Antonia as Jacintha had described , torn by racking convulsions from which they in vain endeavoured to relieve her . 
The Monk dispatched Jacintha to the Abbey in all haste , and commissioned her to bring Father Pablos back with her , without losing a moment . 
'I will go for him , replied Jacintha , 'and tell him to come hither But as to bringing him myself , I shall do no such thing . 
I am sure that the House is bewitched , and burn me if ever I set foot in it again . 
With this resolution She set out for the Monastery , and delivered to Father Pablos the Abbot's orders . 
She then betook herself to the House of old Simon Gonzalez , whom She resolved never to quit , till She had made him her Husband , and his dwelling her own . 
Father Pablos had no sooner beheld Antonia , than He pronounced her incurable . 
The convulsions continued for an hour During that time her agonies were much milder than those which her groans created in the Abbot's heart . 
Her every pang seemed a dagger in his bosom , and He cursed himself a thousand times for having adopted so barbarous a project . 
The hour being expired , by degrees the Fits became less frequent , and Antonia less agitated . 
She felt that her dissolution was approaching , and that nothing could save her . 
I am upon the bed of death Yet an hour , and I shall be no more . 
I may therefore acknowledge without restraint , that to relinquish your society was very painful to me But such was the will of a Parent , and I dared not disobey . 
I die without repugnance There are few , who will lament my leaving them There are few , whom I lament to leave . 
The Abbot shuddered when She mentioned Elvira Antonia imputed his emotion to pity and concern for her . 
'You are grieved for me , Father , She continued 'Ah ! sigh not for my loss . 
I have no crimes to repent , at least none of which I am conscious , and I restore my soul without fear to him from whom I received it . 
I have but few requests to make Yet let me hope that what few I have shall be granted . 
Let a solemn Mass be said for my soul's repose , and another for that of my beloved Mother . 
Not that I doubt her resting in her Grave I am now convinced that my reason wandered , and the falsehood of the Ghost's prediction is sufficient to prove my error . 
Whatever may then remain , I bequeath to my Aunt Leonella . 
When I am dead , let the Marquis de las Cisternas know that his Brother's unhappy family can no longer importune him . 
But disappointment makes me unjust They tell me that He is ill , and perhaps had it been in his power , He wished to have protected me . 
Tell him then , Father , only that I am dead , and that if He had any faults to me , I forgave him from my heart . 
This done , I have nothing more to ask for , than your prayers Promise to remember my requests , and I shall resign my life without a pang or sorrow . 
Ambrosio engaged to comply with her desires , and proceeded to give her absolution . 
As soon as the breath had forsaken her body , Father Pablos retired , sincerely affected at the melancholy scene . 
On her part , Flora gave way to the most unbridled sorrow . 
Far different concerns employed Ambrosio He sought for the pulse whose throbbing , so Matilda had assured him , would prove Antonia's death but temporal . 
He found it He pressed it It palpitated beneath his hand , and his heart was filled with ecstacy . 
However , He carefully concealed his satisfaction at the success of his plan . 
He assumed a melancholy air , and addressing himself to Flora , warned her against abandoning herself to fruitless sorrow . 
Her tears were too sincere to permit her listening to his counsels , and She continued to weep unceasingly . 
The Friar withdrew , first promising to give orders himself about the Funeral , which , out of consideration for Jacintha as He pretended , should take place with all expedition . 
Plunged in grief for the loss of her beloved Mistress , Flora scarcely attended to what He said . 
Ambrosio hastened to command the Burial . 
He obtained permission from the Prioress , that the Corse should be deposited in St . 
Clare's Sepulchre and on the Friday Morning , every proper and needful ceremony being performed , Antonia's body was committed to the Tomb . 
On the same day Leonella arrived at Madrid , intending to present her young Husband to Elvira . 
Various circumstances had obliged her to defer her journey from Tuesday to Friday , and She had no opportunity of making this alteration in her plans known to her Sister . 
Ambrosio sent to inform her of Antonia's bequest At her solication , He promised , as soon as Elvira's trifling debts were discharged , to transmit to her the remainder . 
This being settled , no other business detained Leonella in Madrid , and She returned to Cordova with all diligence . 
His whole attention bent upon bringing to justice the Assassins of his Sister , Lorenzo little thought how severely his interest was suffering in another quarter . 
As was before mentioned , He returned not to Madrid till the evening of that day on which Antonia was buried . 
communicating his design to his Uncle and Don Ramirez , and assembling a troop of Attendants sufficiently to prevent opposition , furnished him with full occupation during the few hours preceding midnight . 
Consequently , He had no opportunity to enquire about his Mistress , and was perfectly ignorant both of her death and her Mother's . 
The Marquis was by no means out of danger His delirium was gone , but had left him so much exhausted that the Physicians declined pronouncing upon the consequences likely to ensue . 
As for Raymond himself , He wished for nothing more earnestly than to join Agnes in the grave . 
Existence was hateful to him He saw nothing in the world deserving his attention and He hoped to hear that Agnes was revenged , and himself given over in the same moment . 
Followed by Raymond's ardent prayers for success , Lorenzo was at the Gates of St . 
Clare a full hour before the time appointed by the Mother St . 
He was accompanied by his Uncle , by Don Ramirez de Mello , and a party of chosen Archers . 
Though in considerable numbers their appearance created no surprize A great Crowd was already assembled before the Convent doors , in order to witness the Procession . 
It was naturally supposed that Lorenzo and his Attendants were conducted thither by the same design . 
The Duke of Medina being recognised , the People drew back , and made way for his party to advance . 
Lorenzo placed himself opposite to the great Gate , through which the Pilgrims were to pass . 
Convinced that the Prioress could not escape him , He waited patiently for her appearance , which She was expected to make exactly at Midnight . 
The Nuns were employed in religious duties established in honour of St . 
Clare , and to which no Prophane was ever admitted . 
The Chapel windows were illuminated . 
As they stood on the outside , the Auditors heard the full swell of the organ , accompanied by a chorus of female voices , rise upon the stillness of the night . 
This died away , and was succeeded by a single strain of harmony It was the voice of her who was destined to sustain in the procession the character of St . 
For this office the most beautiful Virgin of Madrid was always selected , and She upon whom the choice fell esteemed it as the highest of honours . 
While listening to the Music , whose melody distance only seemed to render sweeter , the Audience was wrapped up in profound attention . 
Universal silence prevailed through the Crowd , and every heart was filled with reverence for religion . 
He had long observed with disapprobation and contempt the superstition which governed Madrid's Inhabitants . 
His good sense had pointed out to him the artifices of the Monks , and the gross absurdity of their miracles , wonders , and supposititious reliques . 
He blushed to see his Countrymen the Dupes of deceptions so ridiculous , and only wished for an opportunity to free them from their monkish fetters . 
That opportunity , so long desired in vain , was at length presented to him . 
He longed for the moment destined to unmask the Hypocrites , and convince his Countrymen that a sanctified exterior does not always hide a virtuous heart . 
The service lasted , till Midnight was announced by the Convent Bell . 
That sound being heard , the Music ceased The voices died away softly , and soon after the lights disappeared from the Chapel windows . 
Lorenzo's heart beat high , when He found the execution of his plan to be at hand . 
From the natural superstition of the People He had prepared himself for some resistance . 
But He trusted that the Mother St . 
Ursula would bring good reasons to justify his proceeding . 
Ursula should be present , He could only accuse the Prioress upon suspicion and this reflection gave him some little apprehension for the success of his enterprize . 
The Abbey of Capuchins was only separated from the Convent by the Garden and Cemetery . 
The Monks had been invited to assist at the Pilgrimage . 
They now arrived , marching two by two with lighted Torches in their hands , and chaunting Hymns in honour of St . 
Father Pablos was at their head , the Abbot having excused himself from attending . 
The people made way for the holy Train , and the Friars placed themselves in ranks on either side of the great Gates . 
A few minutes sufficed to arrange the order of the Procession . 
This being settled , the Convent doors were thrown open , and again the female Chorus sounded in full melody . 
First appeared a Band of Choristers As soon as they had passed , the Monks fell in two by two , and followed with steps slow and measured . 
Next came the Novices They bore no Tapers , as did the Professed , but moved on with eyes bent downwards , and seemed to be occupied by telling their Beads . 
To them succeeded a young and lovely Girl , who represented St . 
Lucia She held a golden bason in which were two eyes Her own were covered by a velvet bandage , and She was conducted by another Nun habited as an Angel . 
She was followed by St . 
Catherine , a palm branch in one hand , a flaming Sword in the other She was robed in white , and her brow was ornamented with a sparkling Diadem . 
These merry Devils greatly entertained the Spectators , who testified their pleasure by repeated bursts of Laughter . 
The Prioress had been careful to select a Nun whose disposition was naturally solemn and saturnine . 
She had every reason to be satisfied with her choice The drolleries of the Imps were entirely thrown away , and St . 
Genevieve moved on without discomposing a muscle . 
Each of these Saints was separated from the Other by a band of Choristers , exalting her praise in their Hymns , but declaring her to be very much inferior to St . 
Clare , the Convent's avowed Patroness . 
These having passed , a long train of Nuns appeared , bearing like the Choristers each a burning Taper . 
Next came the reliques of St . 
Clare , inclosed in vases equally precious for their materials and workmanship But they attracted not Lorenzo's attention . 
The Nun who bore the heart occupied him entirely . 
According to Theodore's description , He doubted not her being the Mother St . 
She seemed to look round with anxiety . 
As He stood foremost in the rank by which the procession past , her eye caught Lorenzo's . 
A flush of joy overspread her till then pallid cheek . 
She turned to her Companion eagerly . 
'We are safe ! He heard her whisper 'tis her Brother ! His heart being now at ease , Lorenzo gazed with tranquillity upon the remainder of the show . 
Now appeared its most brilliant ornament . 
It was a Machine fashioned like a throne , rich with jewels and dazzling with light . 
It rolled onwards upon concealed wheels , and was guided by several lovely Children , dressed as Seraphs . 
The summit was covered with silver clouds , upon which reclined the most beautiful form that eyes ever witnessed . 
It was a Damsel representing St . 
Clare Her dress was of inestimable price , and round her head a wreath of Diamonds formed an artificial glory But all these ornaments yielded to the lustre of her charms . 
As She advanced , a murmur of delight ran through the Crowd . 
Even Lorenzo confessed secretly , that He never beheld more perfect beauty , and had not his heart been Antonia's , it must have fallen a sacrifice to this enchanting Girl . 
'Who is She ? asked a By stander in Lorenzo's hearing . 
'One whose beauty you must often have heard celebrated . 
Her name is Virginia de Villa Franca She is a Pensioner of St . 
Clare's Convent , a Relation of the Prioress , and has been selected with justice as the ornament of the Procession . 
It was followed by the Prioress herself She marched at the head of the remaining Nuns with a devout and sanctified air , and closed the procession . 
At that dreaded word every arm fell , every sword shrunk back into its scabbard . 
The Prioress herself turned pale , and trembled . 
'That you shall know in time , replied He 'But first I must secure the Mother St . 
Ursula ? repeated the Domina faintly . 
At this moment casting her eyes round , She saw near her Lorenzo and the Duke , who had followed Don Ramirez . 
'Ah ! great God ! She cried , clasping her hands together with a frantic air 'I am betrayed ! 'Betrayed ? replied St . 
Ursula , who now arrived conducted by some of the Archers , and followed by the Nun her Companion in the procession 'Not betrayed , but discovered . 
In me recognise your Accuser You know not how well I am instructed in your guilt ! Segnor ! She continued , turning to Don Ramirez 'I commit myself to your custody . 
I charge the Prioress of St . 
Clare with murder , and stake my life for the justice of my accusation . 
A general cry of surprize was uttered by the whole Audience , and an explanation was demanded loudly . 
n The trembling Nuns , terrifiedat the noise and universal confusion , had dispersed , and fleddifferent ways . 
The lovely Virginia was one of the first to fly And in order that She might be better seen and heard , the People desired that St . 
Ursula should harangue them from the vacant Throne . 
The Nun complied She ascended the glittering Machine , and then addressed the surrounding multitude as follows . 
'However strange and unseemly may appear my conduct , when considered to be adopted by a Female and a Nun , necessity will justify it most fully . 
Much have I dared to gain this opportunity of lightening my conscience . 
Had I failed in my attempt to reveal the crime , had the Domina but suspected that the mystery was none to me , my ruin was inevitable . 
Mine is the task to rend the veil from Hypocrisy , and show misguided Parents to what dangers the Woman is exposed , who falls under the sway of a monastic Tyrant . 
'Among the Votaries of St . 
Clare , none was more lovely , none more gentle , than Agnes de Medina . 
I knew her well She entrusted to me every secret of her heart I was her Friend and Confident , and I loved her with sincere affection . 
Nor was I singular in my attachment . 
Her piety unfeigned , her willingness to oblige , and her angelic disposition , rendered her the Darling of all that was estimable in the Convent . 
The Prioress herself , proud , scrupulous and forbidding , could not refuse Agnes that tribute of approbation which She bestowed upon no one else . 
Every one has some fault Alas ! Agnes had her weakness ! She violated the laws of our order , and incurred the inveterate hate of the unforgiving Domina . 
Clare's rules are severe But grown antiquated and neglected , many of late years have either been forgotten , or changed by universal consent into milder punishments . 
This law decreed that the Offender should be plunged into a private dungeon , expressly constituted to hide from the world for ever the Victim of Cruelty and tyrannic superstition . 
In this dreadful abode She was to lead a perpetual solitude , deprived of all society , and believed to be dead by those whom affection might have prompted to attempt her rescue . 
Thus was She to languish out the remainder of her days , with no other food than bread and water , and no other comfort than the free indulgence of her tears . 
The indignation created by this account was so violent , as for some moments to interrupt St . 
When the disturbance ceased , and silence again prevailed through the Assembly , She continued her discourse , while at every word the Domina's countenance betrayed her increasing terrors . 
'A Council of the twelve elder Nuns was called I was of the number . 
The Prioress in exaggerated colours described the offence of Agnes , and scrupled not to propose the revival of this almost forgotten law . 
I was not one of the nine . 
Frequent opportunities had convinced me of the virtues of Agnes , and I loved and pitied her most sincerely . 
The Mothers Bertha and Cornelia joined my party We made the strongest opposition possible , and the Superior found herself compelled to change her intention . 
In spite of the majority in her favour , She feared to break with us openly . 
She therefore gave up her design , though which much reluctance . 
'On the night preceding this examination , I stole to the Cell of Agnes at an hour when I supposed the other Nuns to be buried in sleep . 
Conscious that her Enemy would strive to confuse , embarrass , and daunt her , I feared her being ensnared into some confession prejudicial to her interests . 
Being anxious to keep my visit secret , I stayed with Agnes but a short time . 
A Curtain which veiled a large Crucifix offered me a retreat , and I hastened to place myself behind it . 
The Prioress entered , followed by four other Nuns . 
They advanced towards the bed of Agnes . 
The Prioress guessed her design . 
She seized her forcibly by the arm , and pushed her back upon her pillow . 
Already half dead with fear , She could make no further resistance . 
The Nun approached with the fatal Goblet . 
The Domina obliged her to take it , and swallow the contents . 
She drank , and the horrid deed was accomplished . 
The Nuns then seated themselves round the Bed . 
Such were the sufferings of this young Unfortunate , till released by fate from the malice of her Tormentors . 
She expired in horror of the past , in fears for the future and her agonies were such as must have amply gratified the hate and vengeance of her Enemies . 
As soon as her Victim ceased to breathe , the Domina retired , and was followed by her Accomplices . 
'It was now that I ventured from my concealment . 
I dared not to assist my unhappy Friend , aware that without preserving her , I should only have brought on myself the same destruction . 
Shocked and terrified beyond expression at this horrid scene , scarcely had I sufficient strength to regain my Cell . 
With danger and difficulty have I kept my oath . 
I unwarily dropped some words at the funeral of Agnes , while thrown off my guard by excessive grief , which alarmed the guilty conscience of the Prioress . 
My every action was observed My every step was traced . 
I was constantly surrounded by the Superior's spies . 
It was long before I could find the means of conveying to the unhappy Girl's Relations an intimation of my secret . 
It was given out that Agnes had expired suddenly This account was credited not only by her Friends in Madrid , but even by those within the Convent . 
The poison had left no marks upon her body No one suspected the true cause of her death , and it remained unknown to all , save the Assassins and Myself . 
'I have no more to say For what I have already said , I will answer with my life . 
I also accuse the four Nuns , Violante , Camilla , Alix , and Mariana , as being her Accomplices , and equally criminal . 
This confusion increased with every moment At length a multitude of voices exclaimed that the Prioress should be given up to their fury . 
To this Don Ramirez refused to consent positively . 
Even Lorenzo bad the People remember that She had undergone no trial , and advised them to leave her punishment to the Inquisition . 
All representations were fruitless The disturbance grew still more violent , and the Populace more exasperated . 
In vain did Ramirez attempt to convey his Prisoner out of the Throng . 
Wherever He turned , a band of Rioters barred his passage , and demanded her being delivered over to them more loudly than before . 
Ramirez ordered his Attendants to cut their way through the multitude Oppressed by numbers , it was impossible for them to draw their swords . 
He threatened the Mob with the vengeance of the Inquisition But in this moment of popular phrenzy even this dreadful name had lost its effect . 
They forced a passage through the Guards who protected their destined Victim , dragged her from her shelter , and proceeded to take upon her a most summary and cruel vengeance . 
The Rioters heeded nothing but the gratification of their barbarous vengeance . 
They refused to listen to her They showed her every sort of insult , loaded her with mud and filth , and called her by the most opprobrious appellations . 
They tore her one from another , and each new Tormentor was more savage than the former . 
At length a Flint , aimed by some well directing hand , struck her full upon the temple . 
She sank upon the ground bathed in blood , and in a few minutes terminated her miserable existence . 
Yet though She no longer felt their insults , the Rioters still exercised their impotent rage upon her lifeless body . 
They beat it , trod upon it , and ill used it , till it became no more than a mass of flesh , unsightly , shapeless , and disgusting . 
Alarmed at this intelligence , they hastened to the Convent , resolved to defend it if possible , or at least to rescue the Inhabitants from the fury of the Rioters . 
Most of the Nuns had fled , but a few still remained in their habitation . 
Their situation was truly dangerous . 
Clare's order should be left alive . 
Lorenzo had just succeeded in piercing his way through the Crowd , when one of the Gates was forced open . 
The Rioters poured into the interior part of the Building , where they exercised their vengeance upon every thing which found itself in their passage . 
They broke the furniture into pieces , tore down the pictures , destroyed the reliques , and in their hatred of her Servant forgot all respect to the Saint . 
Some employed themselves in searching out the Nuns , Others in pulling down parts of the Convent , and Others again in setting fire to the pictures and valuable furniture which it contained . 
These Latter produced the most decisive desolation Indeed the consequences of their action were more sudden than themselves had expected or wished . 
The Flames rising from the burning piles caught part of the Building , which being old and dry , the conflagration spread with rapidity from room to room . 
The Walls were soon shaken by the devouring element The Columns gave way The Roofs came tumbling down upon the Rioters , and crushed many of them beneath their weight . 
Nothing was to be heard but shrieks and groans The Convent was wrapped in flames , and the whole presented a scene of devastation and horror . 
Lorenzo was shocked at having been the cause , however innocent , of this frightful disturbance He endeavoured to repair his fault by protecting the helpless Inhabitants of the Convent . 
He entered it with the Mob , and exerted himself to repress the prevailing Fury , till the sudden and alarming progress of the flames compelled him to provide for his own safety . 
Lorenzo's good fortune directed him to a small door in a farther Aisle of the Chapel . 
The bolt was already undrawn He opened the door , and found himself at the foot of St . 
Here He stopped to breathe . 
The Duke and some of his Attendants had followed him , and thus were in security for the present . 
Lorenzo enquired , whither the Wicket led ? He was answered , to the Garden of the Capuchins , and it was resolved to explore an outlet upon that side . 
Accordingly the Duke raised the Latch , and passed into the adjoining Cemetery . 
The Attendants followed without ceremony . 
Lorenzo , being the last , was also on the point of quitting the Colonnade , when He saw the door of the Sepulchre opened softly . 
Someone looked out , but on perceiving Strangers uttered a loud shriek , started back again , and flew down the marble Stairs . 
'What can this mean ? cried Lorenzo 'Here is some mystery concealed . 
Follow me without delay ! Thus saying , He hastened into the Sepulchre , and pursued the person who continued to fly before him . 
The Duke knew not the cause of his exclamation , but supposing that He had good reasons for it , he followed him without hesitation . 
The Others did the same , and the whole Party soon arrived at the foot of the Stairs . 
They at length were bewildered by the Labyrinth of passages , and dispersed in various directions . 
The noise of footsteps had ceased . 
All was silent around , and no clue offered itself to guide him to the flying Person . 
He stopped to reflect on the means most likely to aid his pursuit . 
After some minutes past in hesitation He continued to proceed , feeling his way along the walls of the passage . 
He had already past some time in this slow progress , when He descried a spark of light glimmering at a distance . 
Guided by this observation , and having drawn his sword , He bent his steps towards the place , whence the beam seemed to be emitted . 
It proceeded from the Lamp which flamed before St . 
Before it stood several Females , their white Garments streaming in the blast , as it howled along the vaulted dungeons . 
Curious to know what had brought them together in this melancholy spot , Lorenzo drew near with precaution . 
The Strangers seemed earnestly engaged in conversation . 
They heard not Lorenzo's steps , and He approached unobserved , till He could hear their voices distinctly . 
'I protest , continued She who was speaking when He arrived , and to whom the rest were listening with great attention 'I protest , that I saw them with my own eyes . 
I flew down the steps They pursued me , and I escaped falling into their hands with difficulty . 
Had it not been for the Lamp , I should never have found you . 
Here looking up , her eye fell upon Lorenzo , who had continued to approach softly . 
'The Murderers ! She cried She started away from the Statue's Pedestal on which She had been seated , and attempted to escape by flight . 
Her Companions at the same moment uttered a terrified scream , while Lorenzo arrested the Fugitive by the arm . 
Frightened and desperate She sank upon her knees before him . 
'Spare me ! She exclaimed 'For Christ's sake , spare me ! I am innocent , indeed , I am ! While She spoke , her voice was almost choaked with fear . 
The beams of the Lamp darting full upon her face which was unveiled , Lorenzo recognized the beautiful Virginia de Villa Franca . 
He hastened to raise her from the ground , and besought her to take courage . 
Clare , and implored her protection with frantic cries . 
On perceiving their mistake , they crowded round Lorenzo and heaped benedictions on him by dozens . 
Among the former was to be reckoned the lovely Virginia . 
Nearly related to the Prioress , She had more reason than the rest to dread the Rioters , and now besought Lorenzo earnestly not to abandon her to their rage . 
Her Companions , most of whom were Women of noble family , made the same request , which He readily granted . 
Here you run no risque of a discovery , and I would advise your remaining quiet for the next two or three hours . 
The idea of Ghosts is ridiculous in the extreme And if you continue to be swayed by ideal terrors . 
You will never persuade me that we could all have been deceived . 
Not we , indeed No , no Had the noise been merely created by fancy . 
'Hark ! Hark ! interrupted Virginia in a voice of terror 'God preserve us ! There it is again ! The Nuns clasped their hands together , and sank upon their knees . 
Lorenzo looked round him eagerly , and was on the point of yielding to the fears which already had possessed the Women . 
He examined the Vault , but nothing was to be seen . 
He now prepared to address the Nuns , and ridicule their childish apprehensions , when his attention was arrested by a deep and long drawn groan . 
'What was that ? He cried , and started . 
'There , Segnor ! said Helena 'Now you must be convinced ! You have heard the noise yourself ! Now judge , whether our terrors are imaginary . 
Since we have been here , that groaning has been repeated almost every five minutes . 
Doubtless , it proceeds from some Soul in pain , who wishes to be prayed out of purgatory But none of us here dares ask it the question . 
As for me , were I to see an Apparition , the fright , I am very certain , would kill me out of hand . 
As She said this , a second groan was heard yet more distinctly . 
The Nuns crossed themselves , and hastened to repeat their prayers against evil Spirits . 
He even thought that He could distinguish sounds , as of one speaking in complaint But distance rendered them inarticulate . 
Lorenzo's curiosity which was ever awake , made him anxious to solve this mystery . 
He desired that silence might be kept . 
All was hushed , till the general stillness was again disturbed by the groaning , which was repeated several times successively . 
He perceived it to be most audible , when upon following the sound He was conducted close to the shrine of St . 
Clare 'The noise comes from hence , said He 'Whose is this Statue ? Helena , to whom He addressed the question , paused for a moment . 
Suddenly She clapped her hands together . 
'Aye ! cried She , 'it must be so . 
I have discovered the meaning of these groans . 
The Nuns crowded round her , and besought her eagerly to explain herself . 
Not having equal faith in the miraculous Saint , Lorenzo did not think this solution of the mystery quite so satisfactory , as the Nuns , who subscribed to it without hesitation . 
In one point , 'tis true , that He agreed with Helena . 
He suspected that the groans proceeded from the Statue The more He listened , the more was He confirmed in this idea . 
'And in what consists the danger ? said He . 
Among other things She told us that a Robber having entered these Vaults by night , He observed yonder Ruby , whose value is inestimable . 
Do you see it , Segnor ? It sparkles upon the third finger of the hand , in which She holds a crown of Thorns . 
This Jewel naturally excited the Villain's cupidity . 
He resolved to make himself Master of it . 
For this purpose He ascended the Pedestal He supported himself by grasping the Saint's right arm , and extended his own towards the Ring . 
In this He also failed . 
He found it impossible to disengage the hand , which rested upon the right arm of the Statue . 
In vain did He struggle He remained fixed to the Image , till the insupportable and fiery anguish which darted itself through his veins , compelled his shrieking for assistance . 
The Sepulchre was now filled with Spectators . 
The Villain confessed his sacrilege , and was only released by the separation of his hand from his body . 
It has remained ever since fastened to the Image . 
Clare's pardon with groans and lamentations . 
Now I think of it , those which we have just heard , may very possibly have been uttered by the Ghost of this Sinner But of this I will not be positive . 
Not being convinced that his destruction would be so certain as Helena seemed to think it , Lorenzo persisted in his resolution . 
The Nuns besought him to desist in piteous terms , and even pointed out the Robber's hand , which in effect was still visible upon the arm of the Statue . 
This proof , as they imagined , must convince him . 
It was very far from doing so and they were greatly scandalized when he declared his suspicion that the dried and shrivelled fingers had been placed there by order of the Prioress . 
In spite of their prayers and threats He approached the Statue . 
He sprang over the iron Rails which defended it , and the Saint underwent a thorough examination . 
The Image at first appeared to be of Stone , but proved on further inspection to be formed of no more solid materials than coloured Wood . 
He shook it , and attempted to move it But it appeared to be of a piece with the Base which it stood upon . 
He paused , and listened The groans were repeated at intervals , and He was convinced of being in the spot nearest to them . 
He mused upon this singular event , and ran over the Statue with enquiring eyes . 
Suddenly they rested upon the shrivelled hand . 
It struck him , that so particular an injunction was not given without cause , not to touch the arm of the Image . 
He applied his fingers to the knob , and pressed it down forcibly . 
Immediately a rumbling noise was heard within the Statue , as if a chain tightly stretched was flying back . 
Startled at the sound the timid Nuns started away , prepared to hasten from the Vault at the first appearance of danger . 
All remaining quiet and still , they again gathered round Lorenzo , and beheld his proceedings with anxious curiosity . 
Finding that nothing followed this discovery , He descended . 
As He took his hand from the Saint , She trembled beneath his touch . 
This created new terrors in the Spectators , who believed the Statue to be animated . 
Lorenzo's ideas upon the subject were widely different . 
He easily comprehended that the noise which He had heard , was occasioned by his having loosened a chain which attached the Image to its Pedestal . 
He once more attempted to move it , and succeeded without much exertion . 
He placed it upon the ground , and then perceived the Pedestal to be hollow , and covered at the opening with an heavy iron grate . 
This excited such general curiosity that the Sisters forgot both their real and imaginary dangers . 
Lorenzo proceeded to raise the Grate , in which the Nuns assisted him to the utmost of their strength . 
The attempt was accomplished with little difficulty . 
A deep abyss now presented itself before them , whose thick obscurity the eye strove in vain to pierce . 
The rays of the Lamp were too feeble to be of much assistance . 
Nothing was discernible , save a flight of rough unshapen steps which sank into the yawning Gulph and were soon lost in darkness . 
The groans were heard no more But All believed them to have ascended from this Cavern . 
As He bent over it , Lorenzo fancied that He distinguished something bright twinkling through the gloom . 
He gazed attentively upon the spot where it showed itself , and was convinced that He saw a small spark of light , now visible , now disappearing . 
He communicated this circumstance to the Nuns They also perceived the spark But when He declared his intention to descend into the Cave , they united to oppose his resolution . 
All their remonstrances could not prevail on him to alter it . 
None of them had courage enough to accompany him neither could He think of depriving them of the Lamp . 
Alone therefore , and in darkness , He prepared to pursue his design , while the Nuns were contented to offer up prayers for his success and safety . 
The steps were so narrow and uneven , that to descend them was like walking down the side of a precipice . 
The obscurity by which He was surrounded rendered his footing insecure . 
He was obliged to proceed with great caution , lest He should miss the steps and fall into the Gulph below him . 
This He was several times on the point of doing . 
He reached the foot of the Stairs unhurt He now stopped , and looked round for the spark which had before caught his attention . 
He sought it in vain All was dark and gloomy . 
He listened for the groans But his ear caught no sound , except the distant murmur of the Nuns above , as in low voices they repeated their Ave Marias . 
He stood irresolute to which side He should address his steps . 
At all events He determined to proceed He did so , but slowly , fearing lest instead of approaching , He should be retiring from the object of his search . 
The groans seemed to announce one in pain , or at least in sorrow , and He hoped to have the power of relieving the Mourner's calamities . 
A plaintive tone , sounding at no great distance , at length reached his hearing He bent his course joyfully towards it . 
It became more audible as He advanced and He soon beheld again the spark of light , which a low projecting Wall had hitherto concealed from him . 
Coldly played the light upon the damp walls , whose dew stained surface gave back a feeble reflection . 
A thick and pestilential fog clouded the height of the vaulted dungeon . 
As Lorenzo advanced , He felt a piercing chillness spread itself through his veins . 
The frequent groans still engaged him to move forwards . 
She was half naked Her long dishevelled hair fell in disorder over her face , and almost entirely concealed it . 
One wasted Arm hung listlessly upon a tattered rug which covered her convulsed and shivering limbs The Other was wrapped round a small bundle , and held it closely to her bosom . 
Lorenzo stopped He was petrified with horror . 
He gazed upon the miserable Object with disgust and pity . 
He trembled at the spectacle He grew sick at heart His strength failed him , and his limbs were unable to support his weight . 
He was obliged to lean against the low Wall which was near him , unable to go forward , or to address the Sufferer . 
She cast her eyes towards the Staircase The Wall concealed Lorenzo , and She observed him not . 
'No one comes ! She at length murmured . 
As She spoke , her voice was hollow , and rattled in her throat She sighed bitterly . 
'No one comes ! She repeated 'No ! They have forgotten me ! They will come no more ! She paused for a moment Then continued mournfully . 
She shivered , and drew the rug over her naked shoulders . 
'I am very cold ! I am still unused to the damps of this dungeon ! 'Tis strange But no matter . 
Colder shall I soon be , and yet not feel it I shall be cold , cold as Thou art ! She looked at the bundle which lay upon her breast . 
She bent over it , and kissed it Then drew back hastily , and shuddered with disgust . 
She wiped her eyes with a tress of her hair . 
She put out her hand for the Pitcher , and reached it with difficulty . 
She cast into it a look of hopeless enquiry . 
She sighed , and replaced it upon the ground . 
While He listened to her melancholy accents , Lorenzo's sensibility became yet more violently affected . 
The first sight of such misery had given a sensible shock to his feelings But that being past , He now advanced towards the Captive . 
She heard his steps , and uttering a cry of joy , dropped the Rosary . 
He still approached , while the Prisoner thus continued . 
Give me to drink , Camilla , for pity's sake ! I am faint with long fasting , and grown so weak that I cannot raise myself from the ground . 
'It is not Camilla , said He at length , speaking in a slow and gentle voice . 
'Who is it then ? replied the Sufferer 'Alix , perhaps , or Violante . 
My eyes are grown so dim and feeble that I cannot distinguish your features . 
But whichever it is , if your breast is sensible of the least compassion , if you are not more cruel than Wolves and Tigers , take pity on my sufferings . 
You know that I am dying for want of sustenance . 
This is the third day , since these lips have received nourishment . 
I pity your sorrows , and come hither to relieve them . 
A few minutes will restore you to liberty , and the embraces of your Friends from whom you have been secluded . 
You may rely upon my protection . 
Give me your hand , and be not fearful . 
Let me conduct you where you may receive those attentions which your feeble state requires . 
I will bear it away It shall convince the world how dreadful are the abodes so falsely termed religious . 
'Almighty God ! She exclaimed 'Is it possible ! That look ! Those features ! Oh ! Yes , it is , it is . 
She extended her arms to throw them round him But her enfeebled frame was unable to sustain the emotions which agitated her bosom . 
She fainted , and again sank upon the bed of straw . 
Lorenzo was surprized at her last exclamation . 
He thought that He had before heard such accents as her hollow voice had just formed , but where He could not remember . 
He saw that in her dangerous situation immediate physical aid was absolutely necessary , and He hastened to convey her from the dungeon . 
He was at first prevented from doing so by a strong chain fastened round the prisoner's body , and fixing her to the neighbouring Wall . 
However , his natural strength being aided by anxiety to relieve the Unfortunate , He soon forced out the Staple to which one end of the Chain was attached . 
Then taking the Captive in his arms , He bent his course towards the Staircase . 
The rays of the Lamp above , as well as the murmur of female voices , guided his steps . 
He gained the Stairs , and in a few minutes after arrived at the iron grate . 
The Nuns during his absence had been terribly tormented by curiosity and apprehension They were equally surprized and delighted on seeing him suddenly emerge from the Cave . 
Every heart was filled with compassion for the miserable Creature whom He bore in his arms . 
While the Nuns , and Virginia in particular , employed themselves in striving to recall her to her senses , Lorenzo related in few words the manner of his finding her . 
He then observed to them that by this time the tumult must have been quelled , and that He could now conduct them to their Friends without danger . 
All were eager to quit the Sepulchre Still to prevent all possibility of ill usage , they besought Lorenzo to venture out first alone , and examine whether the Coast was clear . 
With this request He complied . 
Helena offered to conduct him to the Staircase , and they were on the point of departing , when a strong light flashed from several passages upon the adjacent walls . 
At the same time Steps were heard of people approaching hastily , and whose number seemed to be considerable . 
The Nuns were greatly alarmed at this circumstance They supposed their retreat to be discovered , and the Rioters to be advancing in pursuit of them . 
Hastily quitting the Prisoner who remained insensible , they crowded round Lorenzo , and claimed his promise to protect them . 
Virginia alone forgot her own danger by striving to relieve the sorrows of Another . 
The Strangers approaching nearer , Lorenzo was enabled to dispel the fears of the Suppliants . 
His name , pronounced by a number of voices among which He distinguished the Duke's , pealed along the Vaults , and convinced him that He was the object of their search . 
He communicated this intelligence to the Nuns , who received it with rapture . 
A few moments after confirmed his idea . 
Don Ramirez , as well as the Duke , appeared , followed by Attendants with Torches . 
They had been seeking him through the Vaults , in order to let him know that the Mob was dispersed , and the riot entirely over . 
Lorenzo recounted briefly his adventure in the Cavern , and explained how much the Unknown was in want of medical assistance . 
He besought the Duke to take charge of her , as well as of the Nuns and Pensioners . 
'As for me , said He , 'Other cares demand my attention . 
While you with one half of the Archers convey these Ladies to their respective homes , I wish the other half to be left with me . 
I will examine the Cavern below , and pervade the most secret recesses of the Sepulchre . 
I cannot rest till convinced that yonder wretched Victim was the only one confined by Superstition in these vaults . 
The Duke applauded his intention . 
Don Ramirez offered to assist him in his enquiry , and his proposal was accepted with gratitude . 
The Nuns having made their acknowledgments to Lorenzo , committed themselves to the care of his Uncle , and were conducted from the Sepulchre . 
Virginia requested that the Unknown might be given to her in charge , and promised to let Lorenzo know whenever She was sufficiently recovered to accept his visits . 
In truth , She made this promise more from consideration for herself than for either Lorenzo or the Captive . 
She had witnessed his politeness , gentleness , and intrepidity with sensible emotion . 
She had no occasion to trouble herself upon this head . 
The kindness already displayed by her and the tender concern which She had shown for the Sufferer had gained her an exalted place in his good graces . 
While occupied in alleviating the Captive's sorrows , the nature of her employment adorned her with new charms , and rendered her beauty a thousand times more interesting . 
The Duke now conveyed the Nuns in safety to the Dwellings of their respective Friends . 
The rescued Prisoner was still insensible and gave no signs of life , except by occasional groans . 
Lorenzo and Don Ramirez still remained in the Sepulchre . 
This being arranged , and his Followers being provided with Torches , Don Ramirez advanced to the Cavern . 
He had already descended some steps when He heard People approaching hastily from the interior part of the Sepulchre . 
This surprized him , and He quitted the Cave precipitately . 
'Do you hear footsteps ? said Lorenzo 'Let us bend our course towards them . 
'Tis from this side that they seem to proceed . 
At that moment a loud and piercing shriek induced him to quicken his steps . 
'Help ! Help , for God's sake ! cried a voice , whose melodious tone penetrated Lorenzo's heart with terror . 
He flew towards the cry with the rapidity of lightning , and was followed by Don Ramirez with equal swiftness . 
All this while , Ambrosio was unconscious of the dreadful scenes which were passing so near . 
The execution of his designs upon Antonia employed his every thought . 
Hitherto , He was satisfied with the success of his plans . 
Antonia had drank the opiate , was buried in the vaults of St . 
Clare , and absolutely in his disposal . 
Matilda , who was well acquainted with the nature and effects of the soporific medicine , had computed that it would not cease to operate till one in the Morning . 
For that hour He waited with impatience . 
Clare presented him with a favourable opportunity of consummating his crime . 
He doubted not , that being beyond the reach of help , cut off from all the world , and totally in his power , Antonia would comply with his desires . 
The affection which She had ever exprest for him , warranted this persuasion But He resolved that should She prove obstinate , no consideration whatever should prevent him from enjoying her . 
The Monks quitted the Abbey at midnight . 
Matilda was among the Choristers , and led the chaunt . 
Ambrosio was left by himself , and at liberty to pursue his own inclinations . 
Convinced that no one remained behind to watch his motions , or disturb his pleasures , He now hastened to the Western Aisles . 
He looked round him with suspicion , conscious that his business was unfit for any other eye . 
He opened the door cautiously , as if fearing to be overheard He entered and closed it again after him . 
Guided by his Lamp , He threaded the long passages , in whose windings Matilda had instructed him , and reached the private Vault which contained his sleeping Mistress . 
Its entrance was by no means easy to discover But this was no obstacle to Ambrosio , who at the time of Antonia's Funeral had observed it too carefully to be deceived . 
He found the door , which was unfastened , pushed it open , and descended into the dungeon . 
He approached the humble Tomb in which Antonia reposed . 
He had provided himself with an iron crow and a pick axe But this precaution was unnecessary . 
The Grate was slightly fastened on the outside He raised it , and placing the Lamp upon its ridge , bent silently over the Tomb . 
By the side of three putrid half corrupted Bodies lay the sleeping Beauty . 
While He gazed upon their rotting bones and disgusting figures , who perhaps were once as sweet and lovely , Ambrosio thought upon Elvira , by him reduced to the same state . 
As the memory of that horrid act glanced upon his mind , it was clouded with a gloomy horror . 
Yet it served but to strengthen his resolution to destroy Antonia's honour . 
'For your sake , Fatal Beauty ! murmured the Monk , while gazing on his devoted prey 'For your sake , have I committed this murder , and sold myself to eternal tortures . 
Now you are in my power The produce of my guilt will at least be mine . 
Scarcely could He command his passions sufficiently , to restrain himself from enjoying her while yet insensible . 
Cease then to solicit my complying with desires , which insult me . 
I cannot yield to a request so humiliating to my pride . 
Suddenly deprived of pleasures , the use of which had made them an absolute want , the Monk felt this restraint severely . 
Gradually He felt the bosom which rested against his , glow with returning warmth . 
Her heart throbbed again Her blood flowed swifter , and her lips moved . 
At length She opened her eyes , but still opprest and bewildered by the effects of the strong opiate , She closed them again immediately . 
Ambrosio watched her narrowly , nor permitted a movement to escape him . 
Perceiving that She was fully restored to existence , He caught her in rapture to his bosom , and closely pressed his lips to hers . 
The suddenness of his action sufficed to dissipate the fumes which obscured Antonia's reason . 
She hastily raised herself , and cast a wild look round her . 
The strange Images which presented themselves on every side contributed to confuse her . 
She put her hand to her head , as if to settle her disordered imagination . 
At length She took it away , and threw her eyes through the dungeon a second time . 
They fixed upon the Abbot's face . 
'Where am I ? She said abruptly . 
'How came I here ? Where is my Mother ? Methought , I saw her ! Oh ! a dream , a dreadful dreadful dream told me . 
But where am I ? Let me go ! I cannot stay here ! She attempted to rise , but the Monk prevented her . 
'Be calm , lovely Antonia ! He replied 'No danger is near you Confide in my protection . 
But why am I here ? Who has brought me ? Why are you with me ? Oh ! Flora bad me beware . 
Even Antonia's ignorance was not proof against the freedom of his behaviour . 
She was sensible of her danger , forced herself from his arms , and her shroud being her only garment , She wrapped it closely round her . 
Though the Monk was somewhat startled by the resolute tone in which this speech was delivered , it produced upon him no other effect than surprize . 
He caught her hand , forced her upon his knee , and gazing upon her with gloting eyes , He thus replied to her . 
Resistance is unavailing , and I need disavow my passion for you no longer . 
You are imagined dead Society is for ever lost to you . 
I possess you here alone You are absolutely in my power , and I burn with desires which I must either gratify or die But I would owe my happiness to yourself . 
She struggled to disengage herself from his arms Her exertions were unsuccessful and finding that Ambrosio's conduct became still freer , She shrieked for assistance with all her strength . 
Even his caresses terrified her from their fury , and created no other sentiment than fear . 
On the contrary , her alarm , her evident disgust , and incessant opposition , seemed only to inflame the Monk's desires , and supply his brutality with additional strength . 
This attempt had no better success than the former . 
On the contrary , taking advantage of her situation , the Ravisher threw himself by her side He clasped her to his bosom almost lifeless with terror , and faint with struggling . 
Scarcely had He succeeded in his design than He shuddered at himself and the means by which it was effected . 
He started hastily from her arms . 
She , who so lately had been the object of his adoration , now raised no other sentiment in his heart than aversion and rage . 
He turned away from her or if his eyes rested upon her figure involuntarily , it was only to dart upon her looks of hate . 
The Unfortunate had fainted ere the completion of her disgrace She only recovered life to be sensible of her misfortune . 
She remained stretched upon the earth in silent despair The tears chased each other slowly down her cheeks , and her bosom heaved with frequent sobs . 
Oppressed with grief , She continued for some time in this state of torpidity . 
At length She rose with difficulty , and dragging her feeble steps towards the door , prepared to quit the dungeon . 
The sound of her footsteps rouzed the Monk from his sullen apathy . 
He seized her by the arm , and violently forced her back into the dungeon . 
'Whither go you ? He cried in a stern voice 'Return this instant ! Antonia trembled at the fury of his countenance . 
Supposing his brain to be turned , Antonia sank in terror upon her knees She lifted up her hands , and her voice almost died away , ere She could give it utterance . 
'Spare me ! Spare me ! She murmured with difficulty . 
'Silence ! cried the Friar madly , and dashed her upon the ground He quitted her , and paced the dungeon with a wild and disordered air . 
His eyes rolled fearfully Antonia trembled whenever She met their gaze . 
He seemed to meditate on something horrible , and She gave up all hopes of escaping from the Sepulchre with life . 
Yet in harbouring this idea , She did him injustice . 
Amidst the horror and disgust to which his soul was a prey , pity for his Victim still held a place in it . 
The storm of passion once over , He would have given worlds had He possest them , to have restored to her that innocence of which his unbridled lust had deprived her . 
His nature seemed to revolt at the very idea , and fain would He have wiped from his memory the scene which had just past . 
As his gloomy rage abated , in proportion did his compassion augment for Antonia . 
He stopped , and would have spoken to her words of comfort But He knew not from whence to draw them , and remained gazing upon her with mournful wildness . 
Her situation seemed so hopeless , so woebegone , as to baffle mortal power to relieve her . 
What could He do for her ? Her peace of mind was lost , her honour irreparably ruined . 
She was cut off for ever from society , nor dared He give her back to it . 
He was conscious that were She to appear in the world again , his guilt would be revealed , and his punishment inevitable . 
To one so laden with crimes , Death came armed with double terrors . 
Yet should He restore Antonia to light , and stand the chance of her betraying him , how miserable a prospect would present itself before her . 
She could never hope to be creditably established She would be marked with infamy , and condemned to sorrow and solitude for the remainder of her existence . 
What was the alternative ? A resolution far more terrible for Antonia , but which at least would insure the Abbot's safety . 
The Monk felt that this resolution was unjust and cruel but it was his only means to prevent Antonia from publishing his guilt and her own infamy . 
Should He release her , He could not depend upon her silence His offence was too flagrant to permit his hoping for her forgiveness . 
Besides , her reappearing would excite universal curiosity , and the violence of her affliction would prevent her from concealing its cause . 
He determined therefore , that Antonia should remain a Prisoner in the dungeon . 
He approached her with confusion painted on his countenance . 
He raised her from the ground . 
Her hand trembled , as He took it , and He dropped it again as if He had touched a Serpent . 
Nature seemed to recoil at the touch . 
He felt himself at once repulsed from and attracted towards her , yet could account for neither sentiment . 
There was something in her look which penetrated him with horror and though his understanding was still ignorant of it , Conscience pointed out to him the whole extent of his crime . 
He declared himself sincerely penitent , and that He would gladly shed a drop of his blood , for every tear which his barbarity had forced from her . 
It conquered even her abhorrence of the Friar . 
Again She sank upon her knees She besought his compassion in terms the most pathetic and urgent . 
Her entreaties were so urgent as to make a considerable impression upon the Monk . 
However well founded were these apprehensions , compassion , and a sincere wish to repair his fault as much as possible solicited his complying with the prayers of his Suppliant . 
The difficulty of colouring Antonia's unexpected return to life , after her supposed death and public interment , was the only point which kept him irresolute . 
He was still pondering on the means of removing this obstacle , when He heard the sound of feet approaching with precipitation . 
The door of the Vault was thrown open , and Matilda rushed in , evidently much confused and terrified . 
On seeing a Stranger enter , Antonia uttered a cry of joy But her hopes of receiving succour from him were soon dissipated . 
'What is to be done , Ambrosio ? We are lost , unless some speedy means is found of dispelling the Rioters . 
Ambrosio , the Convent of St . 
Clare is on fire The Prioress has fallen a victim to the fury of the Mob . 
Already is the Abbey menaced with a similar fate . 
Alarmed at the threats of the People , the Monks seek for you everywhere . 
They imagine that your authority alone will suffice to calm this disturbance . 
No one knows what is become of you , and your absence creates universal astonishment and despair . 
I profited by the confusion , and fled hither to warn you of the danger . 
'This will soon be remedied , answered the Abbot 'I will hasten back to my Cell a trivial reason will account for my having been missed . 
'Impossible ! rejoined Matilda 'The Sepulchre is filled with Archers . 
Lorenzo de Medina , with several Officers of the Inquisition , searches through the Vaults , and pervades every passage . 
Your only chance of escaping their notice rests upon the difficulty of exploring this Vault . 
The door is artfully hidden Haply it may not be observed , and we may remain concealed till the search is over . 
Should the Inquisitors draw near , and her cries be heard . 
'Thus I remove that danger ! interrupted Matilda . 
At the same time drawing a poignard , She rushed upon her devoted prey . 
'Hold ! Hold ! cried Ambrosio , seizing her hand , and wresting from it the already lifted weapon . 
'Absurd ! She exclaimed with an air of passion and majesty which impressed the Monk with awe . 
I abandon you to your evil destiny ! I disclaim your alliance ! Who trembles to commit so insignificant a crime , deserves not my protection . 
Hark ! Hark ! Ambrosio Hear you not the Archers ? They come , and your destruction is inevitable ! At this moment the Abbot heard the sound of distant voices . 
He flew to close the door on whose concealment his safety depended , and which Matilda had neglected to fasten . 
Ere He could reach it , He saw Antonia glide suddenly by him , rush through the door , and fly towards the noise with the swiftness of an arrow . 
She had listened attentively to Matilda She heard Lorenzo's name mentioned , and resolved to risque every thing to throw herself under his protection . 
The sounds convinced her that the Archers could be at no great distance . 
She mustered up her little remaining strength , rushed by the Monk ere He perceived her design , and bent her course rapidly towards the voices . 
As soon as He recovered from his first surprize , the Abbot failed not to pursue her . 
In vain did Antonia redouble her speed , and stretch every nerve to the utmost . 
Her Enemy gained upon her every moment She heard his steps close after her , and felt the heat of his breath glow upon her neck . 
He overtook her He twisted his hand in the ringlets of her streaming hair , and attempted to drag her back with him to the dungeon . 
Antonia resisted with all her strength She folded her arms round a Pillar which supported the roof , and shrieked loudly for assistance . 
In vain did the Monk strive to threaten her to silence . 
'Help ! She continued to exclaim 'Help ! Help ! for God's sake ! Quickened by her cries , the sound of footsteps was heard approaching . 
The Abbot expected every moment to see the Inquisitors arrive . 
Antonia still resisted , and He now enforced her silence by means the most horrible and inhuman . 
The Monk endeavoured to bear her away with him , but She still embraced the Pillar firmly . 
At that instant the light of approaching Torches flashed upon the Walls . 
Dreading a discovery , Ambrosio was compelled to abandon his Victim , and hastily fled back to the Vault , where He had left Matilda . 
Don Ramirez happening to arrive the first , perceived a Female bleeding upon the ground , and a Man flying from the spot , whose confusion betrayed him for the Murderer . 
He instantly pursued the Fugitive with some part of the Archers , while the Others remained with Lorenzo to protect the wounded Stranger . 
They raised her , and supported her in their arms . 
She had fainted from excess of pain , but soon gave signs of returning life . 
She opened her eyes , and on lifting up her head , the quantity of fair hair fell back which till then had obscured her features . 
'God Almighty ! It is Antonia ! Such was Lorenzo's exclamation , while He snatched her from the Attendant's arms , and clasped her in his own . 
Though aimed by an uncertain hand , the poignard had answered but too well the purpose of its Employer . 
The wounds were mortal , and Antonia was conscious that She never could recover . 
Yet the few moments which remained for her were moments of happiness . 
The concern exprest upon Lorenzo's countenance , the frantic fondness of his complaints , and his earnest enquiries respecting her wounds , convinced her beyond a doubt that his affections were her own . 
She bad him take courage , conjured him not to abandon himself to fruitless sorrow , and declared that She mourned to leave nothing in the whole world but him . 
While every sweet accent increased rather than lightened Lorenzo's grief , She continued to converse with him till the moment of dissolution . 
She lay , her head reclining upon Lorenzo's bosom , and her lips still murmuring to him words of comfort . 
She was interrupted by the Convent Bell , as tolling at a distance , it struck the hour . 
Suddenly Antonia's eyes sparkled with celestial brightness Her frame seemed to have received new strength and animation . 
She started from her Lover's arms . 
'Three o'clock ! She cried 'Mother , I come ! She clasped her hands , and sank lifeless upon the ground . 
Lorenzo in agony threw himself beside her He tore his hair , beat his breast , and refused to be separated from the Corse . 
At length his force being exhausted , He suffered himself to be led from the Vault , and was conveyed to the Palace de Medina scarcely more alive than the unfortunate Antonia . 
In the meanwhile , though closely pursued , Ambrosio succeeded in regaining the Vault . 
The Door was already fastened when Don Ramirez arrived , and much time elapsed , ere the Fugitive's retreat was discovered . 
But nothing can resist perseverance . 
Though so artfully concealed , the Door could not escape the vigilance of the Archers . 
They forced it open , and entered the Vault to the infinite dismay of Ambrosio and his Companion . 
The Monk's confusion , his attempt to hide himself , his rapid flight , and the blood sprinkled upon his cloaths , left no room to doubt his being Antonia's Murderer . 
The Abbot strove not to vindicate himself , but preserved a sullen silence . 
He was secured and bound . 
The same precaution was taken with Matilda Her Cowl being removed , the delicacy of her features and profusion of her golden hair betrayed her sex , and this incident created fresh amazement . 
Don Ramirez took care that the populace should remain ignorant both of the crimes and profession of the Captives . 
He feared a repetition of the riots which had followed the apprehending the Prioress of St . 
He contented himself with stating to the Capuchins the guilt of their Superior . 
No fresh discoveries were made . 
The effects found in the Abbot's and Matilda's Cells were seized , and carried to the Inquisition to be produced in evidence . 
Every thing else remained in its former position , and order and tranquillity once more prevailed through Madrid . 
Clare's Convent was completely ruined by the united ravages of the Mob and conflagration . 
Nothing remained of it but the principal Walls , whose thickness and solidity had preserved them from the flames . 
These had fallen Victims to the popular fury as had also several who were perfectly innocent and unconscious of the whole affair . 
Blinded by resentment , the Mob had sacrificed every Nun who fell into their hands They who escaped were entirely indebted to the Duke de Medina's prudence and moderation . 
Of this they were conscious , and felt for that Nobleman a proper sense of gratitude . 
Virginia was not the most sparing of her thanks She wished equally to make a proper return for his attentions , and to obtain the good graces of Lorenzo's Uncle . 
In this She easily succeeded . 
This Virginia had discernment enough to perceive , and She redoubled her attention to the Invalid . 
When He parted from her at the door of her Father's Palace , the Duke entreated permission to enquire occasionally after her health . 
His request was readily granted Virginia assured him that the Marquis de Villa Franca would be proud of an opportunity to thank him in person for the protection afforded to her . 
They now separated , He enchanted with her beauty and gentleness , and She much pleased with him and more with his Nephew . 
On entering the Palace , Virginia's first care was to summon the family Physician , and take care of her unknown charge . 
Her Mother hastened to share with her the charitable office . 
Alarmed by the riots , and trembling for his Daughter's safety , who was his only child , the Marquis had flown to St . 
Clare's Convent , and was still employed in seeking her . 
Messengers were now dispatched on all sides to inform him that He would find her safe at his Hotel , and desire him to hasten thither immediately . 
Her constitution being much enfeebled by want and sorrow , it was some time before the Stranger was restored to her senses . 
She found great difficulty in swallowing the medicines prescribed to her But this obstacle being removed , She easily conquered her disease which proceeded from nothing but weakness . 
The Prioress had put every artifice in practice to induce Virginia to take the veil for the Heiress of Villa Franca would have been no despicable acquisition . 
Her seeming kindness and unremitted attention so far succeeded that her young Relation began to think seriously upon compliance . 
Her persuasions induced Virginia to lay aside all thoughts of the Veil But another argument , not used by Agnes , had more weight with her than all the others put together . 
She had seen Lorenzo , when He visited his Sister at the Grate . 
His Person pleased her , and her conversations with Agnes generally used to terminate in some question about her Brother . 
She , who doted upon Lorenzo , wished for no better than an opportunity to trumpet out his praise . 
She soon perceived that from these communications the heart of her young Friend had imbibed impressions , which She was far from intending to give , but was truly happy to discover . 
She could not have wished her Brother a more desirable union Heiress of Villa Franca , virtuous , affectionate , beautiful , and accomplished , Virginia seemed calculated to make him happy . 
She sounded her Brother upon the subject , though without mentioning names or circumstances . 
He assured her in his answers that his heart and hand were totally disengaged , and She thought that upon these grounds She might proceed without danger . 
She in consequence endeavoured to strengthen the dawning passion of her Friend . 
She at length ventured to mention her wishes to the Duke Though a Stranger to the Lady herself , He knew enough of her situation to think her worthy his Nephew's hand . 
The unfortunate events which took place in the interim , prevented her from executing her design . 
Virginia wept her loss sincerely , both as a Companion , and as the only Person to whom She could speak of Lorenzo . 
The sight of him so near her , his politeness , his compassion , his intrepidity , had combined to give new ardour to her affection . 
On returning to his Hotel , the relation given him of Antonia's death , and Lorenzo's behaviour on the occasion , made evident his mistake . 
He lamented the circumstances But the unhappy Girl being effectually out of the way , He trusted that his designs would yet be executed . 
'Tis true that Lorenzo's situation just then ill suited him for a Bridegroom . 
His hopes disappointed at the moment when He expected to realize them , and the dreadful and sudden death of his Mistress had affected him very severely . 
The Duke found him upon the Bed of sickness . 
His Attendants expressed serious apprehensions for his life But the Uncle entertained not the same fears . 
He now hastened to the afflicted Youth , and endeavoured to console him He sympathised in his distress , but encouraged him to resist the encroachments of despair . 
While He laboured thus to make Lorenzo forget Antonia's loss , the Duke paid his court assiduously to Virginia , and seized every opportunity to advance his Nephew's interest in her heart . 
It may easily be expected that Agnes was not long without enquiring after Don Raymond . 
The Duke undertook the office himself , of announcing to the Invalid the happiness which awaited him . 
soon enabled him to overcome the effects of his late dreadful malady . 
The calm of his soul communicated itself to his body , and He recovered with such rapidity as to create universal surprize . 
Antonia's death accompanied with such terrible circumstances weighed upon his mind heavily . 
He was worn down to a shadow . 
Nothing could give him pleasure . 
He was persuaded with difficulty to swallow nourishment sufficient for the support of life , and a consumption was apprehended . 
The society of Agnes formed his only comfort . 
Though accident had never permitted their being much together , He entertained for her a sincere friendship and attachment . 
Perceiving how necessary She was to him , She seldom quitted his chamber . 
She listened to his complaints with unwearied attention , and soothed him by the gentleness of her manners , and by sympathising with his distress . 
She still inhabited the Palace de Villa Franca , the Possessors of which treated her with marked affection . 
The Duke had intimated to the Marquis his wishes respecting Virginia . 
In consequence the Duke's proposal was accepted without hesitation Every precaution was taken to induce Lorenzo's seeing the Lady with those sentiments which She so well merited to excite . 
However , they prudently kept their observations to themselves . 
No word was dropped which might lead him to suspect their designs . 
They continued their former conduct and attention , and left Time to ripen into a warmer sentiment the friendship which He already felt for Virginia . 
In the mean while , her visits became more frequent and latterly there was scarce a day , of which She did not pass some part by the side of Lorenzo's Couch . 
He gradually regained his strength , but the progress of his recovery was slow and doubtful . 
One evening He seemed to be in better spirits than usual Agnes and her Lover , the Duke , Virginia , and her Parents were sitting round him . 
He now for the first time entreated his Sister to inform him how She had escaped the effects of the poison which St . 
Ursula had seen her swallow . 
Fearful of recalling those scenes to his mind in which Antonia had perished , She had hitherto concealed from him the history of her sufferings . 
The rest of the company had already heard her story But the interest which all present felt for its Heroine made them anxious to hear it repeated . 
The whole society seconding Lorenzo's entreaties , Agnes obeyed . 
She first recounted the discovery which had taken place in the Abbey Chapel , the Domina's resentment , and the midnight scene of which St . 
Ursula had been a concealed witness . 
Though the Nun had already described this latter event , Agnes now related it more circumstantially and at large After which She proceeded in her narrative as follows . 
Conclusion of the History of Agnes de Medina My supposed death was attended with the greatest agonies . 
When animation revived in me , my soul was still impressed with these terrible ideas I looked round with fear , expecting to behold the Ministers of divine vengeance . 
If I endeavoured to raise myself from the ground , the wandering of my head deceived me . 
Every thing around me seemed to rock , and I sank once more upon the earth . 
My weak and dazzled eyes were unable to bear a nearer approach to a gleam of light which I saw trembling above me . 
I was compelled to close them again , and remain motionless in the same posture . 
A full hour elapsed , before I was sufficiently myself to examine the surrounding Objects . 
I was covered with a linen cloth Several faded flowers were strown over me On one side lay a small wooden Crucifix On the other , a Rosary of large Beads . 
Four low narrow walls confined me . 
The top was also covered , and in it was practised a small grated Door Through this was admitted the little air which circulated in this miserable place . 
A faint glimmering of light which streamed through the Bars , permitted me to distinguish the surrounding horrors . 
I was opprest by a noisome suffocating smell and perceiving that the grated door was unfastened , I thought that I might possibly effect my escape . 
As I raised myself with this design , my hand rested upon something soft I grasped it , and advanced it towards the light . 
When my strength returned , this circumstance , and the consciousness of being surrounded by the loathsome and mouldering Bodies of my Companions , increased my desire to escape from my fearful prison . 
I again moved towards the light . 
The grated door was within my reach I lifted it without difficulty Probably it had been left unclosed to facilitate my quitting the dungeon . 
Aiding myself by the irregularity of the Walls some of whose stones projected beyond the rest , I contrived to ascend them , and drag myself out of my prison . 
I now found Myself in a Vault tolerably spacious . 
Several Tombs , similar in appearance to that whence I had just escaped , were ranged along the sides in order , and seemed to be considerably sunk within the earth . 
A sepulchral Lamp was suspended from the roof by an iron chain , and shed a gloomy light through the dungeon . 
Emblems of Death were seen on every side Skulls , shoulder blades , thigh bones , and other leavings of Mortality were scattered upon the dewy ground . 
Each Tomb was ornamented with a large Crucifix , and in one corner stood a wooden Statue of St . 
To these objects I at first paid no attention A Door , the only outlet from the Vault , had attracted my eyes . 
I hastened towards it , having wrapped my winding sheet closely round me . 
I pushed against the door , and to my inexpressible terror found that it was fastened on the outside . 
I guessed immediately that the Prioress , mistaking the nature of the liquor which She had compelled me to drink , instead of poison had administered a strong Opiate . 
This idea penetrated me with horror , not merely for my own sake , but that of the innocent Creature , who still lived within my bosom . 
I again endeavoured to open the door , but it resisted all my efforts . 
I stretched my voice to the extent of its compass , and shrieked for aid I was remote from the hearing of every one No friendly voice replied to mine . 
A profound and melancholy silence prevailed through the Vault , and I despaired of liberty . 
My long abstinence from food now began to torment me . 
The tortures which hunger inflicted on me , were the most painful and insupportable Yet they seemed to increase with every hour which past over my head . 
Then would I vent my anguish in loud exclamations and passionate complaints and then again my strength failing me , silent and hopeless I would sit me down upon the base of St . 
Clare's Statue , fold my arms , and abandon myself to sullen despair . 
Thus passed several wretched hours . 
Death advanced towards me with rapid strides , and I expected that every succeeding moment would be that of my dissolution . 
Suddenly a neighbouring Tomb caught my eye A Basket stood upon it , which till then I had not observed . 
I started from my seat I made towards it as swiftly as my exhausted frame would permit . 
How eagerly did I seize the Basket , on finding it to contain a loaf of coarse bread and a small bottle of water . 
I threw myself with avidity upon these humble aliments . 
They had to all appearance been placed in the Vault for several days The bread was hard , and the water tainted Yet never did I taste food to me so delicious . 
When the cravings of appetite were satisfied , I busied myself with conjectures upon this new circumstance I debated whether the Basket had been placed there with a view to my necessity . 
Hope answered my doubts in the affirmative . 
My meditations were interrupted by the sound of distant footsteps . 
They approached , but slowly . 
Rays of light now darted through the crevices of the Door . 
Still the sounds drew near The light grew stronger At length with inexpressible pleasure I heard the Key turning in the Lock . 
Persuaded that my deliverance was at hand , I flew towards the Door with a shriek of joy . 
It opened But all my hopes of escape died away , when the Prioress appeared followed by the same four Nuns , who had been witnesses of my supposed death . 
They bore torches in their hands , and gazed upon me in fearful silence . 
I started back in terror . 
The Domina descended into the Vault , as did also her Companions . 
She bent upon me a stern resentful eye , but expressed no surprize at finding me still living . 
For some moments all preserved a dead and solemn silence . 
I stood at some distance from the Prioress . 
At length She beckoned me to advance . 
Trembling at the severity of her aspect my strength scarce sufficed me to obey her . 
I drew near , but my limbs were unable to support their burthen . 
I sank upon my knees I clasped my hands , and lifted them up to her for mercy , but had no power to articulate a syllable . 
She gazed upon me with angry eyes . 
'Take courage She continued 'I wish not for your death , but your repentance . 
The draught which I administered , was no poison , but an opiate . 
My intention in deceiving you was to make you feel the agonies of a guilty conscience , had Death overtaken you suddenly while your crimes were still unrepented . 
You have suffered those agonies I have brought you to be familiar with the sharpness of death , and I trust that your momentary anguish will prove to you an eternal benefit . 
It is not my design to destroy your immortal soul or bid you seek the grave , burthened with the weight of sins unexpiated . 
No , Daughter , far from it I will purify you with wholesome chastisement , and furnish you with full leisure for contrition and remorse . 
Hear then my sentence The ill judged zeal of your Friends delayed its execution , but cannot now prevent it . 
All Madrid believes you to be no more Your Relations are thoroughly persuaded of your death , and the Nuns your Partizans have assisted at your funeral . 
Your existence can never be suspected I have taken such precautions , as must render it an impenetrable mystery . 
Then abandon all thoughts of a World from which you are eternally separated , and employ the few hours which are allowed you , in preparing for the next . 
This exordium led me to expect something terrible . 
I trembled , and would have spoken to deprecate her wrath but a motion of the Domina commanded me to be silent . 
it is my intention to revive the laws of our order in their full force . 
Listen then to the sentence of St . 
Beneath these Vaults there exist Prisons , intended to receive such criminals as yourself Artfully is their entrance concealed , and She who enters them , must resign all hopes of liberty . 
Thither must you now be conveyed . 
Clare's orders Submit to them without repining . 
Follow me ! Thunderstruck at this barbarous decree , my little remaining strength abandoned me . 
I answered only by falling at her feet , and bathing them with tears . 
The Domina , unmoved by my affliction , rose from her seat with a stately air . 
She repeated her commands in an absolute tone But my excessive faintness made me unable to obey her . 
Mariana and Alix raised me from the ground , and carried me forwards in their arms . 
The Prioress moved on , leaning upon Violante , and Camilla preceded her with a Torch . 
Thus passed our sad procession along the passages , in silence only broken by my sighs and groans . 
We stopped before the principal shrine of St . 
The Statue was removed from its Pedestal , though how I knew not . 
The Nuns afterwards raised an iron grate till then concealed by the Image , and let it fall on the other side with a loud crash . 
The awful sound , repeated by the vaults above , and Caverns below me , rouzed me from the despondent apathy in which I had been plunged . 
I looked before me An abyss presented itself to my affrighted eyes , and a steep and narrow Staircase , whither my Conductors were leading me . 
I shrieked , and started back . 
I implored compassion , rent the air with my cries , and summoned both heaven and earth to my assistance . 
In vain ! I was hurried down the Staircase , and forced into one of the Cells which lined the Cavern's sides . 
My blood ran cold , as I gazed upon this melancholy abode . 
Hear me , thou Guilty ! Expect no mercy from me either for yourself , or Brat . 
Uttering a deep groan , I fell senseless at the feet of my unrelenting Enemy . 
When my senses returned , I found myself in silence and solitude . 
I heard not even the retiring footsteps of my Persecutors . 
A leaden Crucifix was in front of my straw Couch . 
I had once been taught to look forward to a lot so different ! At one time my prospects had appeared so bright , so flattering ! Now all was lost to me . 
Its continuance convinced me of my mistake with but too much certainty . 
Every morning my hopes were disappointed . 
At length I abandoned all idea of escaping I resigned myself to my fate , and only expected Liberty when She came the Companion of Death . 
My mental anguish , and the dreadful scenes in which I had been an Actress , advanced the period of my labour . 
It came alive into the world But I knew not how to treat it , or by what means to preserve its existence . 
I could only bathe it with tears , warm it in my bosom , and offer up prayers for its safety . 
It expired in a few hours after its birth , and I witnessed its death with agonies which beggar all description . 
But my grief was unavailing . 
My Infant was no more nor could all my sighs impart to its little tender frame the breath of a moment . 
I rent my winding sheet , and wrapped in it my lovely Child . 
I placed it on my bosom , its soft arm folded round my neck , and its pale cold cheek resting upon mine . 
Thus did its lifeless limbs repose , while I covered it with kisses , talked to it , wept , and moaned over it without remission , day or night . 
Camilla entered my prison regularly once every twenty four hours , to bring me food . 
In spite of her flinty nature , She could not behold this spectacle unmoved . 
She feared that grief so excessive would at length turn my brain , and in truth I was not always in my proper senses . 
From a principle of compassion She urged me to permit the Corse to be buried But to this I never would consent . 
I vowed not to part with it while I had life Its presence was my only comfort , and no persuasion could induce me to give it up . 
It soon became a mass of putridity , and to every eye was a loathsome and disgusting Object To every eye but a Mother's . 
In vain did human feelings bid me recoil from this emblem of mortality with repugnance I withstood , and vanquished that repugnance . 
Even when released from my prison , I brought away my Child in my arms . 
''at length persuaded me to resign my unhappy Infant to the Grave . 
Yet I parted from it with reluctance However , reason at length prevailed I suffered it to be taken from me , and it now reposes in consecrated ground . 
I before mentioned that regularly once a day Camilla brought me food . 
My situation evidently affected her more than She ventured to express But She believed that to extenuate my fault would make me less anxious to repent it . 
Often while her lips painted the enormity of my guilt in glaring colours , her eyes betrayed , how sensible She was to my sufferings . 
were so much actuated by the spirit of oppressive cruelty as by the idea that to afflict my body was the only way to preserve my soul . 
Her resentment existed in full force . 
My project of elopement having been discovered by the Abbot of the Capuchins , She supposed herself lowered in his opinion by my disgrace , and in consequence her hate was inveterate . 
The Superior's word is an oracle to but too many of a Convent's Inhabitants . 
The Nuns believed whatever the Prioress chose to assert Though contradicted by reason and charity , they hesitated not to admit the truth of her arguments . 
Camilla , being most employed about me , was particularly charged by the Prioress to treat me with harshness . 
Yet as I before observed , She always concluded by words of encouragement and comfort and though uttered by Camilla's lips , I easily recognised the Domina's expressions . 
Once , and once only , the Prioress visited me in my dungeon . 
She even gazed upon my lifeless Infant without emotion and when She left me , I heard her charge Camilla to increase the hardships of my Captivity . 
Unfeeling Woman ! But let me check my resentment She has expiated her errors by her sad and unexpected death . 
Peace be with her and may her crimes be forgiven in heaven , as I forgive her my sufferings on earth ! Thus did I drag on a miserable existence . 
Far from growing familiar with my prison , I beheld it every moment with new horror . 
The cold seemed more piercing and bitter , the air more thick and pestilential . 
My frame became weak , feverish , and emaciated . 
I was unable to rise from the bed of Straw , and exercise my limbs in the narrow limits , to which the length of my chain permitted me to move . 
Though exhausted , faint , and weary , I trembled to profit by the approach of Sleep My slumbers were constantly interrupted by some obnoxious Insect crawling over me . 
At such times I shrieked with terror and disgust , and while I shook off the reptile , trembled with all a Woman's weakness . 
Such was my situation , when Camilla was suddenly taken ill . 
A dangerous fever , supposed to be infectious , confined her to her bed . 
Every one except the Lay Sister appointed to nurse her , avoided her with caution , and feared to catch the disease . 
She was perfectly delirious , and by no means capable of attending to me . 
Of the reason of Camilla's negligence , I have been informed since my release by the Mother St . 
Ursula At that time I was very far from suspecting its cause . 
On the contrary , I waited for my Gaoler's appearance at first with impatience , and afterwards with despair . 
One day passed away Another followed it The Third arrived . 
I supposed , either that the Nuns had forgotten me , or that the Domina had ordered them to let me perish . 
The latter idea seemed the most probable Yet so natural is the love of life , that I trembled to find it true . 
Though embittered by every species of misery , my existence was still dear to me , and I dreaded to lose it . 
Every succeeding minute proved to me that I must abandon all hopes of relief . 
I was become an absolute skeleton My eyes already failed me , and my limbs were beginning to stiffen . 
I resigned myself to my fate I already expected the moment of dissolution , when my Guardian Angel , when my beloved Brother arrived in time to save me . 
My sight grown dim and feeble at first refused to recognize him and when I did distinguish his features , the sudden burst of rapture was too much for me to bear . 
I was overpowered by the swell of joy at once more beholding a Friend , and that a Friend so dear to me . 
Nature could not support my emotions , and took her refuge in insensibility . 
You already know , what are my obligations to the Family of Villa Franca But what you cannot know is the extent of my gratitude , boundless as the excellence of my Benefactors . 
Lorenzo ! Raymond ! Names so dear to me ! Teach me to bear with fortitude this sudden transition from misery to bliss . 
One only wish remains ungratified It is to see my Brother in his former health , and to know that Antonia's memory is buried in her grave . 
Granted this prayer , I have nothing more to desire . 
I trust , that my past sufferings have purchased from heaven the pardon of my momentary weakness . 
I have been frail and full of error But I yielded not to the warmth of constitution Raymond , affection for you betrayed me . 
I was too confident of my strength But I depended no less on your honour than my own . 
I had vowed never to see you more Had it not been for the consequences of that unguarded moment , my resolution had been kept . 
Fate willed it otherwise , and I cannot but rejoice at its decree . 
Still my conduct has been highly blameable , and while I attempt to justify myself , I blush at recollecting my imprudence . 
Here Agnes ceased , and the Marquis replied to her address in terms equally sincere and affectionate . 
Lorenzo expressed his satisfaction at the prospect of being so closely connected with a Man for whom He had ever entertained the highest esteem . 
It is needless to say that Theodore was of the party , and would be impossible to describe his joy at his Master's marriage . 
Previous to his departure , the Marquis , to atone in some measure for his past neglect , made some enquiries relative to Elvira . 
Lorenzo followed his example Leonella was highly flattered by the attentions of Noblemen so distinguished , and Jacintha blessed the hour on which her House was bewitched . 
On her side , Agnes failed not to reward her Convent Friends . 
Ursula , to whom She owed her liberty , was named at her request Superintendent of 'The Ladies of Charity This was one of the best and most opulent Societies throughout Spain . 
Bertha and Cornelia not choosing to quit their Friend , were appointed to principal charges in the same establishment . 
As to the Nuns who had aided the Domina in persecuting Agnes , Camilla being confined by illness to her bed , had perished in the flames which consumed St . 
Mariana , Alix , and Violante , as well as two more , had fallen victims to the popular rage . 
Nor was the fidelity of Flora permitted to go unrewarded . 
Her wishes being consulted , She declared herself impatient to revisit her native land . 
In consequence , a passage was procured for her to Cuba , where She arrived in safety , loaded with the presents of Raymond and Lorenzo . 
The debts of gratitude discharged , Agnes was at liberty to pursue her favourite plan . 
Lodged in the same House , Lorenzo and Virginia were eternally together . 
The more He saw of her , the more was He convinced of her merit . 
On her part , She laid herself out to please , and not to succeed was for her impossible . 
However , his sentiments partook not of that ardent character which had marked his affection for Antonia . 
The image of that lovely and unfortunate Girl still lived in his heart , and baffled all Virginia's efforts to displace it . 
Still when the Duke proposed to him the match , which He wished to earnestly to take place , his Nephew did not reject the offer . 
The urgent supplications of his Friends , and the Lady's merit conquered his repugnance to entering into new engagements . 
He proposed himself to the Marquis de Villa Franca , and was accepted with joy and gratitude . 
Virginia became his Wife , nor did She ever give him cause to repent his choice . 
His esteem increased for her daily . 
Her unremitted endeavours to please him could not but succeed . 
His affection assumed stronger and warmer colours . 
Antonia's image was gradually effaced from his bosom and Virginia became sole Mistress of that heart , which She well deserved to possess without a Partner . 
The exquisite sorrows with which they had been afflicted , made them think lightly of every succeeding woe . 
They had felt the sharpest darts in misfortune's quiver Those which remained appeared blunt in comparison . 
Having weathered Fate's heaviest Storms , they looked calmly upon its terrors or if ever they felt Affliction's casual gales , they seemed to them gentle as Zephyrs which breathe over summer seas . 
On the day following Antonia's death , all Madrid was a scene of consternation and amazement . 
An Archer who had witnessed the adventure in the Sepulchre had indiscreetly related the circumstances of the murder He had also named the Perpetrator . 
The confusion was without example which this intelligence raised among the Devotees . 
Most of them disbelieved it , and went themselves to the Abbey to ascertain the fact . 
This attempt was unsuccessful The same excuse being repeated day after day , the Archer's story gradually obtained confidence . 
His Partizans abandoned him No one entertained a doubt of his guilt and they who before had been the warmest in his praise were now the most vociferous in his condemnation . 
While his innocence or guilt was debated in Madrid with the utmost acrimony , Ambrosio was a prey to the pangs of conscious villainy , and the terrors of punishment impending over him . 
He could not hope to deceive his Judges The proofs of his guilt were too strong . 
He waited with agony for the day of examination He had no resource to comfort him in his distress . 
For every other Sinner He thought there might be hope , but for him there could be none . 
Shuddering at the past , anguished by the present , and dreading the future , thus passed He the few days preceding that which was marked for his Trial . 
At nine in the morning his prison door was unlocked , and his Gaoler entering , commanded him to follow him . 
He was conducted into a spacious Hall , hung with black cloth . 
At a smaller table at a little distance sat the Secretary , provided with all necessary implements for writing . 
Ambrosio was beckoned to advance , and take his station at the lower end of the Table . 
As his eye glanced downwards , He perceived various iron instruments lying scattered upon the floor . 
Their forms were unknown to him , but apprehension immediately guessed them to be engines of torture . 
He turned pale , and with difficulty prevented himself from sinking upon the ground . 
Profound silence prevailed , except when the Inquisitors whispered a few words among themselves mysteriously . 
Near an hour past away , and with every second of it Ambrosio's fears grew more poignant . 
At length a small Door , opposite to that by which He had entered the Hall , grated heavily upon its hinges . 
An Officer appeared , and was immediately followed by the beautiful Matilda . 
Her hair hung about her face wildly Her cheeks were pale , and her eyes sunk and hollow . 
She threw a melancholy look upon Ambrosio He replied by one of aversion and reproach . 
She was placed opposite to him . 
A Bell then sounded thrice . 
It was the signal for opening the Court , and the Inquisitors entered upon their office . 
In these trials neither the accusation is mentioned , or the name of the Accuser . 
The Prisoners are only asked , whether they will confess If they reply that having no crime they can make no confession , they are put to the torture without delay . 
The Abbot was not merely accused of rape and murder The crime of Sorcery was laid to his charge , as well as to Matilda's . 
She had been seized as an Accomplice in Antonia's assassination . 
On searching her Cell , various suspicious books and instruments were found which justified the accusation brought against her . 
To criminate the Monk , the constellated Mirror was produced , which Matilda had accidentally left in his chamber . 
The strange figures engraved upon it caught the attention of Don Ramirez , while searching the Abbot's Cell In consequence , He carried it away with him . 
Instantly a loud noise was heard , resembling a clap of thunder , and the steel shivered into a thousand pieces . 
This circumstance confirmed the suspicion of the Monk's having dealt in Magic It was even supposed that his former influence over the minds of the People was entirely to be ascribed to witchcraft . 
Determined to make him confess not only the crimes which He had committed , but those also of which He was innocent , the Inquisitors began their examination . 
Though dreading the tortures , as He dreaded death still more which would consign him to eternal torments , the Abbot asserted his purity in a voice bold and resolute . 
Matilda followed his example , but spoke with fear and trembling . 
Having in vain exhorted him to confess , the Inquisitors ordered the Monk to be put to the question . 
The Decree was immediately executed . 
Ambrosio suffered the most excruciating pangs that ever were invented by human cruelty Yet so dreadful is Death when guilt accompanies it , that He had sufficient fortitude to persist in his disavowal . 
His agonies were redoubled in consequence Nor was He released till fainting from excess of pain , insensibility rescued him from the hands of his Tormentors . 
Matilda was next ordered to the torture But terrified by the sight of the Friar's sufferings , her courage totally deserted her . 
The latter assertion met with no credit . 
He was commanded back to his Cell , but first informed that as soon as He had gained strength sufficient , He must prepare himself for a second examination . 
The Inquisitors hoped that He would then be less hardened and obstinate . 
To Matilda it was announced that She must expiate her crime in fire on the approaching Auto da Fe . 
All her tears and entreaties could procure no mitigation of her doom , and She was dragged by force from the Hall of Trial . 
Returned to his dungeon , the sufferings of Ambrosio's body were far more supportable than those of his mind . 
Then again the consequences of his confession flashed before him , and rendered him once more irresolute . 
His death would be inevitable , and that a death the most dreadful He had listened to Matilda's doom , and doubted not that a similar was reserved for him . 
Even this resource was refused to him . 
To permit his being blind to the fallacy of this belief , his knowledge was too extensive , his understanding too solid and just . 
He could not help feeling the existence of a God . 
Those truths , once his comfort , now presented themselves before him in the clearest light But they only served to drive him to distraction . 
They destroyed his ill grounded hopes of escaping punishment and dispelled by the irresistible brightness of Truth and convinction , Philosophy's deceitful vapours faded away like a dream . 
In anguish almost too great for mortal frame to bear , He expected the time when He was again to be examined . 
He busied himself in planning ineffectual schemes for escaping both present and future punishment . 
Of the first there was no possibility Of the second Despair made him neglect the only means . 
While Reason forced him to acknowledge a God's existence , Conscience made him doubt the infinity of his goodness . 
He disbelieved that a Sinner like him could find mercy . 
He had not been deceived into error Ignorance could furnish him with no excuse . 
He had seen vice in her true colours Before He committed his crimes , He had computed every scruple of their weight and yet he had committed them . 
Amidst these dismal scenes wandered the Ghosts of Elvira and her Daughter . 
They reproached him with their deaths , recounted his crimes to the Daemons , and urged them to inflict torments of cruelty yet more refined . 
Such were the pictures which floated before his eyes in sleep They vanished not till his repose was disturbed by excess of agony . 
He had been compelled to swallow cordials , whose virtues were calculated to restore his bodily strength , and enable him to support the question longer . 
On the night preceding this dreaded day , his fears for the morrow permitted him not to sleep . 
His terrors were so violent , as nearly to annihilate his mental powers . 
He sat like one stupefied near the Table on which his Lamp was burning dimly . 
Despair chained up his faculties in Idiotism , and He remained for some hours , unable to speak or move , or indeed to think . 
'Look up , Ambrosio ! said a Voice in accents well known to him The Monk started , and raised his melancholy eyes . 
She had quitted her religious habit . 
She now wore a female dress , at once elegant and splendid A profusion of diamonds blazed upon her robes , and her hair was confined by a coronet of Roses . 
'Ambrosio ! She replied with an air of commanding dignity 'I have baffled the Inquisition's fury . 
I am free A few moments will place kingdoms between these dungeons and me . 
You look upon me with eyes of suspicion and alarm I read your thoughts and confess their justice . 
Yes , Ambrosio I have sacrificed all for life and liberty . 
I am no longer a candidate for heaven ! I have renounced God's service , and am enlisted beneath the banners of his Foes . 
The deed is past recall Yet were it in my power to go back , I would not . 
I pant to be at liberty . 
Nothing should hold me one moment longer in this abhorred abode , but the hope of persuading you to follow my example . 
Ambrosio , I still love you Our mutual guilt and danger have rendered you dearer to me than ever , and I would fain save you from impending destruction . 
Summon then your resolution to your aid and renounce for immediate and certain benefits the hopes of a salvation , difficult to obtain , and perhaps altogether erroneous . 
'Matilda ! He said after a long silence in a low and unsteady voice 'What price gave you for liberty ? She answered him firm and dauntless . 
Hell is your lot You are doomed to eternal perdition Nought lies beyond your grave but a gulph of devouring flames . 
No , no , Ambrosio Let us for awhile fly from divine vengeance . 
Be advised by me Purchase by one moment's courage the bliss of years Enjoy the present , and forget that a future lags behind . 
'Matilda , your counsels are dangerous I dare not , I will not follow them . 
I must not give up my claim to salvation . 
Monstrous are my crimes But God is merciful , and I will not despair of pardon . 
'Is such your resolution ? I have no more to say . 
I speed to joy and liberty , and abandon you to death and eternal torments . 
'Yet stay one moment , Matilda ! You command the infernal Daemons You can force open these prison doors You can release me from these chains which weigh me down . 
Save me , I conjure you , and bear me from these fearful abodes ! 'You ask the only boon beyond my power to bestow . 
I am forbidden to assist a Churchman and a Partizan of God Renounce those titles , and command me . 
'I will not sell my soul to perdition . 
'Persist in your obstinacy , till you find yourself at the Stake Then will you repent your error , and sigh for escape when the moment is gone by . 
Yet ere the hour of death arrives should wisdom enlighten you , listen to the means of repairing your present fault . 
I leave with you this Book . 
Read the four first lines of the seventh page backwards The Spirit whom you have already once beheld will immediately appear to you . 
If you are wise , we shall meet again If not , farewell for ever ! She let the Book fall upon the ground . 
A cloud of blue fire wrapped itself round her She waved her hand to Ambrosio , and disappeared . 
The momentary glare which the flames poured through the dungeon , on dissipating suddenly , seemed to have increased its natural gloom . 
The solitary Lamp scarcely gave light sufficient to guide the Monk to a Chair . 
He threw himself into his seat , folded his arms , and leaning his head upon the table , sank into reflections perplexing and unconnected . 
He was still in this attitude when the opening of the prison door rouzed him from his stupor . 
He was summoned to appear before the Grand Inquisitor . 
He rose , and followed his Gaoler with painful steps . 
He was led into the same Hall , placed before the same Examiners , and was again interrogated whether Hewould confess . 
Forgetting the consequences , and only anxious to escape the terrors of the present moment , He made an ample confession . 
He disclosed every circumstance of his guilt , and owned not merely the crimes with which He was charged , but those of which He had never been suspected . 
Being interrogated as to Matilda's flight which had created much confusion , He confessed that She had sold herself to Satan , and that She was indebted to Sorcery for her escape . 
In consequence of this avowal , his sentence was immediately pronounced . 
He was ordered to prepare himself to perish in the Auto da Fe , which was to be solemnized at twelve o'clock that night . 
Ambrosio rather dead than alive was left alone in his dungeon . 
The moment in which this terrible decree was pronounced had nearly proved that of his dissolution . 
He looked forward to the morrow with despair , and his terrors increased with the approach of midnight . 
Sometimes He was buried in gloomy silence At others He raved with delirious passion , wrung his hands , and cursed the hour when He first beheld the light . 
In one of these moments his eye rested upon Matilda's mysterious gift . 
His transports of rage were instantly suspended . 
He looked earnestly at the Book He took it up , but immediately threw it from him with horror . 
He walked rapidly up and down his dungeon Then stopped , and again fixed his eyes on the spot where the Book had fallen . 
He reflected that here at least was a resource from the fate which He dreaded . 
He stooped , and took it up a second time . 
He remained for some time trembling and irresolute He longed to try the charm , yet feared its consequences . 
The recollection of his sentence at length fixed his indecision . 
He opened the Volume but his agitation was so great that He at first sought in vain for the page mentioned by Matilda . 
Ashamed of himself , He called all his courage to his aid . 
He turned to the seventh leaf . 
Still He persisted in his design and with a voice unassured and frequent interruptions , He contrived to finish the four first lines of the page . 
They were in a language , whose import was totally unknown to him . 
Scarce had He pronounced the last word when the effects of the charm were evident . 
But He came not as when at Matilda's summons He borrowed the Seraph's form to deceive Ambrosio . 
In one hand He held a roll of parchment , and in the other an iron pen . 
Still the lightning flashed around him , and the Thunder with repeated bursts , seemed to announce the dissolution of Nature . 
Terrified at an Apparition so different from what He had expected , Ambrosio remained gazing upon the Fiend , deprived of the power of utterance . 
The Thunder had ceased to roll Universal silence reigned through the dungeon . 
Ambrosio was long unable to answer the Daemon's demand . 
'I am condemned to die He said with a faint voice , his blood running cold , while He gazed upon his dreadful Visitor . 
'Will no less price content you ? Can nothing satisfy you but my eternal ruin ? Spirit , you ask too much . 
Yet convey me from this dungeon Be my Servant for one hour , and I will be yours for a thousand years . 
Will not this offer suffice ? 'It will not . 
I must have your soul must have it mine , and mine for ever . 
'Insatiate Daemon , I will not doom myself to endless torments . 
I will not give up my hopes of being one day pardoned . 
Can such enormous sins be forgiven ? Hope you to escape my power ? Your fate is already pronounced . 
My crimes are monstrous , but I will not despair of pardon Haply , when they have received due chastisement . 
Sign this parchment I will bear you from hence , and you may pass your remaining years in bliss and liberty . 
The Monk was silent But his looks declared that the Tempter's words were not thrown away . 
The Fiend saw that his resolution was shaken He renewed his instances , and endeavoured to fix the Abbot's indecision . 
He described the agonies of death in the most terrific colours and He worked so powerfully upon Ambrosio's despair and fears that He prevailed upon him to receive the Parchment . 
He then struck the iron Pen which He held into a vein of the Monk's left hand . 
It pierced deep , and was instantly filled with blood Yet Ambrosio felt no pain from the wound . 
The Pen was put into his hand It trembled . 
The Wretch placed the Parchment on the Table before him , and prepared to sign it . 
Suddenly He held his hand He started away hastily , and threw the Pen upon the table . 
'What am I doing ? He cried Then turning to the Fiend with a desperate air , 'Leave me ! Begone ! I will not sign the Parchment . 
Their momentary repose seemed to have given them fresh vigour . 
The nearer that the time approached , the more did He dread appearing before the Throne of God . 
He shuddered to think how soon He must be plunged into eternity How soon meet the eyes of his Creator , whom He had so grievously offended . 
He expected to see the Archers entering his prison and as the Bell forbore to toll , he seized the magic volume in a fit of despair . 
He opened it , turned hastily to the seventh page , and as if fearing to allow himself a moment's thought ran over the fatal lines with rapidity . 
Accompanied by his former terrors , Lucifer again stood before the Trembler . 
'You have summoned me , said the Fiend 'Are you determined to be wise ? Will you accept my conditions ? You know them already . 
Renounce your claim to salvation , make over to me your soul , and I bear you from this dungeon instantly . 
Resolve , or it will be too late . 
Will you sign the Parchment ? 'I must ! Fate urges me ! I accept your conditions . 
'Sign the Parchment ! replied the Daemon in an exulting tone . 
The Contract and the bloody Pen still lay upon the Table . 
He prepared to sign his name . 
A moment's reflection made him hesitate . 
'Hark ! cried the Tempter 'They come ! Be quick ! Sign the Parchment , and I bear you from hence this moment . 
In effect , the Archers were heard approaching , appointed to lead Ambrosio to the Stake . 
The sound encouraged the Monk in his resolution . 
'What is the import of this writing ? said He . 
'It makes your soul over to me for ever , and without reserve . 
'What am I to receive in exchange ? 'My protection , and release from this dungeon . 
Sign it , and this instant I bear you away . 
Ambrosio took up the Pen He set it to the Parchment . 
Again his courage failed him He felt a pang of terror at his heart , and once more threw the Pen upon the Table . 
The Prisoner heard the rattling of Chains The heavy Bar fell The Archers were on the point of entering . 
He signed the fatal contract , and gave it hastily into the evil Spirit's hands , whose eyes , as He received the gift , glared with malicious rapture . 
While He spoke , the Door unclosed . 
Instantly the Daemon grasped one of Ambrosio's arms , spread his broad pinions , and sprang with him into the air . 
The roof opened as they soared upwards , and closed again when they had quitted the Dungeon . 
In the meanwhile , the Gaoler was thrown into the utmost surprize by the disappearance of his Prisoner . 
Though neither He nor the Archers were in time to witness the Monk's escape , a sulphurous smell prevailing through the prison sufficiently informed them by whose aid He had been liberated . 
They hastened to make their report to the Grand Inquisitor . 
The story , how a Sorcerer had been carried away by the Devil , was soon noised about Madrid and for some days the whole City was employed in discussing the subject . 
Gradually it ceased to be the topic of conversation Other adventures arose whose novelty engaged universal attention and Ambrosio was soon forgotten as totally , as if He never had existed . 
Though rescued from the Inquisition , Ambrosio as yet was insensible of the blessings of liberty . 
The Abbot cast round him a look of terror . 
His infernal Conductor was still by his side , and eyed him with a look of mingled malice , exultation , and contempt . 
Hark , Ambrosio , while I unveil your crimes ! You have shed the blood of two innocents Antonia and Elvira perished by your hand . 
I observed your blind idolatry of the Madona's picture . 
I bad a subordinate but crafty spirit assume a similar form , and you eagerly yielded to the blandishments of Matilda . 
Hear , hear , Ambrosio ! Had you resisted me one minute longer , you had saved your body and soul . 
The guards whom you heard at your prison door came to signify your pardon . 
But I had already triumphed My plots had already succeeded . 
Scarcely could I propose crimes so quick as you performed them . 
You are mine , and Heaven itself cannot rescue you from my power . 
Hope not that your penitence will make void our contract . 
Here is your bond signed with your blood You have given up your claim to mercy , and nothing can restore to you the rights which you have foolishly resigned . 
Believe you that your secret thoughts escaped me ? No , no , I read them all ! You trusted that you should still have time for repentance . 
During the Daemon's speech , Ambrosio had been stupefied by terror and surprize . 
This last declaration rouzed him . 
Thus I secure my prey ! As He said this , darting his talons into the Monk's shaven crown , He sprang with him from the rock . 
The Caves and mountains rang with Ambrosio's shrieks . 
The Daemon continued to soar aloft , till reaching a dreadful height , He released the sufferer . 
The Sun now rose above the horizon Its scorching beams darted full upon the head of the expiring Sinner . 
The Eagles of the rock tore his flesh piecemeal , and dug out his eyeballs with their crooked beaks . 
A burning thirst tormented him He heard the river's murmur as it rolled beside him , but strove in vain to drag himself towards the sound . 
