Etext prepared by JudithBoss , proofed by Charles Keller . 
The Age of Innocence by Edith Wharton Book I I. On a January evening of the early seventies , Christine Nilsson was singing in Faust at the Academy of Music in New York . 
to scramble into the first Brown conveyance in the line , instead of waiting till the cold and gin congested nose of one's own coachman gleamed under the portico of the Academy . 
It was one of the great livery stableman's most masterly intuitions to have discovered that Americans want to get away from amusement even more quickly than they want to get to it . 
When Newland Archer opened the door at the back of the club box the curtain had just gone up on the garden scene . 
The second reason for his delay was a personal one . 
He had dawdled over his cigar because he was at heart a dilettante , and thinking over a pleasure to come often gave him a subtler satisfaction than its realisation . 
Newland Archer , leaning against the wall at the back of the club box , turned his eyes from the stage and scanned the opposite side of the house . 
She dropped her eyes to the immense bouquet of lilies of the valley on her knee , and Newland Archer saw her white gloved finger tips touch the flowers softly . 
He drew a breath of satisfied vanity and his eyes returned to the stage . 
No expense had been spared on the setting , which was acknowledged to be very beautiful even by people who shared his acquaintance with the Opera houses of Paris and Vienna . 
The foreground , to the footlights , was covered with emerald green cloth . 
In the middle distance symmetrical mounds of woolly green moss bounded by croquet hoops formed the base of shrubs shaped like orange trees but studded with large pink and red roses . 
The darling ! thought Newland Archer , his glance flitting back to the young girl with the lilies of the valley . 
She doesn't even guess what it's all about . 
And he contemplated her absorbed young face with a thrill of possessorship in which pride in his own masculine initiation was mingled with a tender reverence for her abysmal purity . 
he thought , somewhat hazily confusing the scene of his projected honey moon with the masterpieces of literature which it would be his manly privilege to reveal to his bride . 
He did not in the least wish the future Mrs. Newland Archer to be a simpleton . 
Singly they betrayed their inferiority but grouped together they represented New York , and the habit of masculine solidarity made him accept their doctrine on all the issues called moral . 
He instinctively felt that in this respect it would be troublesome and also rather bad form to strike out for himself . 
Well upon my soul ! exclaimed Lawrence Lefferts , turning his opera glass abruptly away from the stage . 
Lawrence Lefferts was , on the whole , the foremost authority on form in New York . 
He had probably devoted more time than any one else to the study of this intricate and fascinating question but study alone could not account for his complete and easy competence . 
As a young admirer had once said of him If anybody can tell a fellow just when to wear a black tie with evening clothes and when not to , it's Larry Lefferts . 
And on the question of pumps versus patent leather Oxfords his authority had never been disputed . 
My God ! he said and silently handed his glass to old Sillerton Jackson . 
Newland Archer , following Lefferts's glance , saw with surprise that his exclamation had been occasioned by the entry of a new figure into old Mrs. Mingott's box . 
Mr. Sillerton Jackson had returned the opera glass to Lawrence Lefferts . 
but then her mother was a Rushworth . 
The club box , therefore , waited in visible suspense while Mr. Sillerton Jackson handed back Lawrence Lefferts's opera glass . 
Newland Archer , during this brief episode , had been thrown into a strange state of embarrassment . 
Then light dawned on him , and with it came a momentary rush of indignation . 
that she had been to see poor Ellen , who was staying with old Mrs. Mingott . 
Archer entirely approved of family solidarity , and one of the qualities he most admired in the Mingotts was their resolute championship of the few black sheep that their blameless stock had produced . 
that old Mrs. Manson Mingott , the Matriarch of the line , would dare . 
in an inaccessible wilderness near the Central Park . 
Old Mrs. Mingott's foreign daughters had become a legend . 
, as placidly as if there were nothing peculiar in living above Thirty fourth Street , or in having French windows that opened like doors instead of sashes that pushed up . 
was agreed that old Catherine had never had beauty a gift which , in the eyes of New York , justified every success , and excused a certain number of failings . 
there had never been a breath on her reputation the only respect , he always added , in which she differed from the earlier Catherine . 
Therefore , for totally different reasons , her food was as poor as Mrs. Archer's , and her wines did nothing to redeem it . 
a sense of the gravity of the situation . 
Few things seemed to Newland Archer more awful than an offence against Taste , that far off divinity of whom Form was the mere visible representative and vicegerent . 
sloped away from her thin shoulders shocked and troubled him . 
He hated to think of May Welland's being exposed to the influence of a young woman so careless of the dictates of Taste . 
, after all , just WHAT happened ? Well she left him nobody attempts to deny that . 
He's an awful brute , isn't he ? continued the young enquirer , a candid Thorley , who was evidently preparing to enter the lists as the lady's champion . 
The very worst I knew him at Nice , said Lawrence Lefferts with authority . 
A half paralysed white sneering fellow rather handsome head , but eyes with a lot of lashes . 
Well , I'll tell you the sort when he wasn't with women he was collecting china . 
Paying any price for both , I understand . 
There was a general laugh , and the young champion said Well , then ? Well , then she bolted with his secretary . 
It didn't last long , though I heard of her a few months later living alone in Venice . 
I believe Lovell Mingott went out to get her . 
He said she was desperately unhappy . 
That's all right but this parading her at the Opera's another thing . 
Perhaps , young Thorley hazarded , she's too unhappy to be left at home . 
This was greeted with an irreverent laugh , and the youth blushed deeply , and tried to look as if he had meant to insinuate what knowing people called a double entendre . 
Well it's queer to have brought Miss Welland , anyhow , some one said in a low tone , with a side glance at Archer . 
Oh , that's part of the campaign Granny's orders , no doubt , Lefferts laughed . 
When the old lady does a thing she does it thoroughly . 
The act was ending , and there was a general stir in the box . 
Suddenly Newland Archer felt himself impelled to decisive action . 
Her eyes said You see why Mamma brought me , and his answered I would not for the world have had you stay away . 
You know my niece Countess Olenska ? Mrs. Welland enquired as she shook hands with her future son in law . 
Miss Welland's face grew rosy as the dawn , and she looked at him with radiant eyes . 
She says she used to play with you when you were children . 
We DID use to play together , didn't we ? she asked , turning her grave eyes to his . 
You were a horrid boy , and kissed me once behind a door but it was your cousin Vandie Newland , who never looked at me , that I was in love with . 
Her glance swept the horse shoe curve of boxes . 
Nothing could be in worse taste than misplaced flippancy and he answered somewhat stiffly Yes , you have been away a very long time . 
It invariably happened in the same way . 
But the Beauforts were not exactly common some people said they were even worse . 
, a penniless beauty introduced to New York society by her cousin , the imprudent Medora Manson , who was always doing the wrong thing from the right motive . 
But folly is as often justified of her children as wisdom , and two years after young Mrs. Beaufort's marriage it was admitted that she had the most distinguished house in New York . 
No one knew exactly how the miracle was accomplished . 
Mr. Beaufort's secret , people were agreed , was the way he carried things off . 
The Beaufort house was one that New Yorkers were proud to show to foreigners , especially on the night of the annual ball . 
Newland Archer , as became a young man of his position , strolled in somewhat late . 
, but , the night being fine , had walked for some distance up Fifth Avenue before turning back in the direction of the Beauforts' house . 
He was definitely afraid that the Mingotts might be going too far that , in fact , they might have Granny Mingott's orders to bring the Countess Olenska to the ball . 
Archer found Mrs. Welland and her daughter standing near the ball room door . 
, her face a little pale , her eyes burning with a candid excitement . 
It was evident that Miss Welland was in the act of announcing her engagement , while her mother affected the air of parental reluctance considered suitable to the occasion . 
It was at his express wish that the announcement had been made , and yet it was not thus that he would have wished to have his happiness known . 
To proclaim it in the heat and noise of a crowded ball room was to rob it of the fine bloom of privacy which should belong to things nearest the heart . 
His joy was so deep that this blurring of the surface left its essence untouched but he would have liked to keep the surface pure too . 
It was something of a satisfaction to find that May Welland shared this feeling . 
Her eyes fled to his beseechingly , and their look said Remember , we're doing this because it's right . 
Now we shan't have to talk , he said , smiling into her candid eyes , as they floated away on the soft waves of the Blue Danube . 
Her lips trembled into a smile , but the eyes remained distant and serious , as if bent on some ineffable vision . 
You see I did as you asked me to , she said . 
Yes I couldn't wait , he answered smiling . 
After a moment he added Only I wish it hadn't had to be at a ball . 
She met his glance comprehendingly . 
But after all even here we're alone together , aren't we ? Oh , dearest always ! Archer cried . 
Evidently she was always going to understand she was always going to say the right thing . 
The discovery made the cup of his bliss overflow , and he went on gaily The worst of it is that I want to kiss you and I can't . 
As he spoke he took a swift glance about the conservatory , assured himself of their momentary privacy , and catching her to him laid a fugitive pressure on her lips . 
She sat silent , and the world lay like a sunlit valley at their feet . 
Did you tell my cousin Ellen ? she asked presently , as if she spoke through a dream . 
He roused himself , and remembered that he had not done so . 
Some invincible repugnance to speak of such things to the strange foreign woman had checked the words on his lips . 
No I hadn't the chance after all , he said , fibbing hastily . 
She looked disappointed , but gently resolved on gaining her point . 
You must , then , for I didn't either and I shouldn't like her to think Of course not . 
But aren't you , after all , the person to do it ? She pondered on this . 
Otherwise she might think I had forgotten her . 
You see , she's one of the family , and she's been away so long that she's rather sensitive . 
Archer looked at her glowingly . 
Dear and great angel ! Of course I'll tell her . 
He glanced a trifle apprehensively toward the crowded ball room . 
But I haven't seen her yet . 
Has she come ? No at the last minute she decided not to . 
At the last minute ? he echoed , betraying his surprise that she should ever have considered the alternative possible . 
She's awfully fond of dancing , the young girl answered simply . 
But suddenly she made up her mind that her dress wasn't smart enough for a ball , though we thought it so lovely and so my aunt had to take her home . 
Oh , well said Archer with happy indifference . 
Nothing about his betrothed pleased him more than her resolute determination to carry to its utmost limit that ritual of ignoring the unpleasant in which they had both been brought up . 
In the course of the next day the first of the usual betrothal visits were exchanged . 
A visit to Mrs. Manson Mingott was always an amusing episode to the young man . 
The house in itself was already an historic document , though not , of course , as venerable as certain other old family houses in University Place and lower Fifth Avenue . 
It was her habit to sit in a window of her sitting room on the ground floor , as if watching calmly for life and fashion to flow northward to her solitary doors . 
She seemed in no hurry to have them come , for her patience was equalled by her confidence . 
even statelier and that the cobble stones over which the old clattering omnibuses bumped would be replaced by smooth asphalt , such as people reported having seen in Paris . 
, she did not suffer from her geographic isolation . 
the unexpected vista of a bedroom with a huge low bed upholstered like a sofa , and a toilet table with frivolous lace flounces and a gilt framed mirror . 
That was how women with lovers lived in the wicked old societies , in apartments with all the rooms on one floor , and all the indecent propinquities that their novels described . 
To the general relief the Countess Olenska was not present in her grandmother's drawing room during the visit of the betrothed couple . 
But at any rate it spared them the embarrassment of her presence , and the faint shadow that her unhappy past might seem to shed on their radiant future . 
The visit went off successfully , as was to have been expected . 
Very handsome , she added , returning the jewel very liberal . 
In my time a cameo set in pearls was thought sufficient . 
Mine was modelled in Rome by the great Ferrigiani . 
You should have May's done no doubt he'll have it done , my child . 
Her hand is large it's these modern sports that spread the joints but the skin is white . 
And when's the wedding to be ? she broke off , fixing her eyes on Archer's face . 
Oh Mrs. Welland murmured , while the young man , smiling at his betrothed , replied As soon as ever it can , if only you'll back me up , Mrs. Mingott . 
Let the young man have his way , my dear don't wait till the bubble's off the wine . 
Marry them before Lent I may catch pneumonia any winter now , and I want to give the wedding breakfast . 
There was a cousinly murmur of pleasure between the ladies , and Mrs. Mingott held out Ferrigiani's model to the banker . 
I wish it might happen oftener , said the visitor in his easy arrogant way . 
I'm generally so tied down but I met the Countess Ellen in Madison Square , and she was good enough to let me walk home with her . 
Ah I hope the house will be gayer , now that Ellen's here ! cried Mrs. Mingott with a glorious effrontery . 
Sit down sit down , Beaufort push up the yellow armchair now I've got you I want a good gossip . 
I hear your ball was magnificent and I understand you invited Mrs. Lemuel Struthers ? Well I've a curiosity to see the woman myself . 
She had forgotten her relatives , who were drifting out into the hall under Ellen Olenska's guidance . 
Old Mrs. Mingott had always professed a great admiration for Julius Beaufort , and there was a kind of kinship in their cool domineering way and their short cuts through the conventions . 
Of course if you and Regina invite her the thing is settled . 
Well , we need new blood and new money and I hear she's still very good looking , the carnivorous old lady declared . 
In the hall , while Mrs. Welland and May drew on their furs , Archer saw that the Countess Olenska was looking at him with a faintly questioning smile . 
Of course you know already about May and me , he said , answering her look with a shy laugh . 
She scolded me for not giving you the news last night at the Opera I had her orders to tell you that we were engaged but I couldn't , in that crowd . 
The smile passed from Countess Olenska's eyes to her lips she looked younger , more like the bold brown Ellen Mingott of his boyhood . 
Of course I know yes . 
But one doesn't tell such things first in a crowd . 
The ladies were on the threshold and she held out her hand . 
Good bye come and see me some day , she said , still looking at Archer . 
In the carriage , on the way down Fifth Avenue , they talked pointedly of Mrs. Mingott , of her age , her spirit , and all her wonderful attributes . 
But I daresay in the set she's lived in they do they never do anything else . 
V. The next evening old Mr. Sillerton Jackson came to dine with the Archers . 
Mrs. Archer was a shy woman and shrank from society but she liked to be well informed as to its doings . 
but because the old anecdotist sometimes felt , on Newland's part , a tendency to weigh his evidence that the ladies of the family never showed . 
Mr. Jackson , if perfection had been attainable on earth , would also have asked that Mrs. Archer's food should be a little better . 
You couldn't have everything , after all . 
Mrs. Archer , who had long been a widow , lived with her son and daughter in West Twenty eighth Street . 
An upper floor was dedicated to Newland , and the two women squeezed themselves into narrower quarters below . 
Mrs. and Miss Archer were both great lovers of scenery . 
It was what they principally sought and admired on their occasional travels abroad considering architecture and painting as subjects for men , and chiefly for learned persons who read Ruskin . 
Mentally , the likeness between them , as Newland was aware , was less complete than their identical mannerisms often made it appear . 
On this occasion the young man was very sure that Mr. Jackson would rather have had him dine out but he had his own reasons for not doing so . 
Of course old Jackson wanted to talk about Ellen Olenska , and of course Mrs. Archer and Janey wanted to hear what he had to tell . 
They began , obliquely , by talking about Mrs. Lemuel Struthers . 
It's a pity the Beauforts asked her , Mrs. Archer said gently . 
Oh , necessarily Beaufort is a vulgar man , said Mrs. Archer . 
My grandfather Newland always used to say to my mother Whatever you do , don't let that fellow Beaufort be introduced to the girls . 
But at least he's had the advantage of associating with gentlemen in England too , they say . 
It's all very mysterious She glanced at Janey and paused . 
She and Janey knew every fold of the Beaufort mystery , but in public Mrs. Archer continued to assume that the subject was not one for the unmarried . 
But this Mrs. Struthers , Mrs. Archer continued what did you say SHE was , Sillerton ? Out of a mine or rather out of the saloon at the head of the pit . 
Then with Living Wax Works , touring New England . 
After the police broke THAT up , they say she lived Mr. Jackson in his turn glanced at Janey , whose eyes began to bulge from under her prominent lids . 
There were still hiatuses for her in Mrs. Struthers's past . 
, then Lemuel Struthers came along . 
They say his advertiser used the girl's head for the shoe polish posters her hair's intensely black , you know the Egyptian style . 
Anyhow , he eventually married her . 
There were volumes of innuendo in the way the eventually was spaced , and each syllable given its due stress . 
Oh , well at the pass we've come to nowadays , it doesn't matter , said Mrs. Archer indifferently . 
The ladies were not really interested in Mrs. Struthers just then the subject of Ellen Olenska was too fresh and too absorbing to them . 
Even Mrs. Archer , who was seldom unduly pleased with human events , had been altogether glad of her son's engagement . 
There was no better match in New York than May Welland , look at the question from whatever point you chose . 
These indications of inward disturbance moved Archer the more that he too felt that the Mingotts had gone a little too far . 
At which his mother merely pursed her lips under the lace veil that hung down from her grey velvet bonnet trimmed with frosted grapes . 
He looked baffled and hungry , and Archer reflected that he would probably finish his meal on Ellen Olenska . 
Mr. Jackson leaned back in his chair , and glanced up at the candlelit Archers , Newlands and van der Luydens hanging in dark frames on the dark walls . 
Ah Mrs. Archer murmured , in a tone that implied She had that decency . 
Perhaps the Beauforts don't know her , Janey suggested , with her artless malice . 
Mr. Jackson gave a faint sip , as if he had been tasting invisible Madeira . 
Mrs. Beaufort may not but Beaufort certainly does , for she was seen walking up Fifth Avenue this afternoon with him by the whole of New York . 
Mercy moaned Mrs. Archer , evidently perceiving the uselessness of trying to ascribe the actions of foreigners to a sense of delicacy . 
I wonder if she wears a round hat or a bonnet in the afternoon , Janey speculated . 
At the Opera I know she had on dark blue velvet , perfectly plain and flat like a night gown . 
Janey ! said her mother and Miss Archer blushed and tried to look audacious . 
It was , at any rate , in better taste not to go to the ball , Mrs. Archer continued . 
A spirit of perversity moved her son to rejoin I don't think it was a question of taste with her . 
May said she meant to go , and then decided that the dress in question wasn't smart enough . 
Mrs. Archer smiled at this confirmation of her inference . 
Poor Ellen , she simply remarked adding compassionately We must always bear in mind what an eccentric bringing up Medora Manson gave her . 
It's odd , Janey remarked , that she should have kept such an ugly name as Ellen . 
I should have changed it to Elaine . 
She glanced about the table to see the effect of this . 
Why Elaine ? I don't know it sounds more more Polish , said Janey , blushing . 
It sounds more conspicuous and that can hardly be what she wishes , said Mrs. Archer distantly . 
Why not ? broke in her son , growing suddenly argumentative . 
That , I suppose , said Mr. Jackson , speculatively , is the line the Mingotts mean to take . 
I didn't have to wait for their cue , if that's what you mean , sir . 
Madame Olenska has had an unhappy life that doesn't make her an outcast . 
There are rumours , began Mr. Jackson , glancing at Janey . 
Oh , I know the secretary , the young man took him up . 
Nonsense , mother Janey's grown up . 
Mr. Jackson glanced over his shoulder to say to the sad butler Perhaps . 
just a little , after all then , having helped himself , he remarked I'm told she's looking for a house . 
She means to live here . 
I hear she means to get a divorce , said Janey boldly . 
I hope she will ! Archer exclaimed . 
The word had fallen like a bombshell in the pure and tranquil atmosphere of the Archer dining room . 
While this rite was in progress in the drawing room , Archer settled Mr. Jackson in an armchair near the fire in the Gothic library and handed him a cigar . 
He stopped and turned away angrily to light his cigar . 
Women ought to be free as free as we are , he declared , making a discovery of which he was too irritated to measure the terrific consequences . 
Mr. Sillerton Jackson stretched his ankles nearer the coals and emitted a sardonic whistle . 
Well , he said after a pause , apparently Count Olenski takes your view for I never heard of his having lifted a finger to get his wife back . 
That evening , after Mr. Jackson had taken himself away , and the ladies had retired to their chintz curtained bedroom , Newland Archer mounted thoughtfully to his own study . 
With a new sense of awe he looked at the frank forehead , serious eyes and gay innocent mouth of the young creature whose soul's custodian he was to be . 
The case of the Countess Olenska had stirred up old settled convictions and set them drifting dangerously through his mind . 
His own exclamation Women should be free as free as we are , struck to the root of a problem that it was agreed in his world to regard as non existent . 
Such verbal generosities were in fact only a humbugging disguise of the inexorable conventions that tied things together and bound people down to the old pattern . 
Of course the dilemma was purely hypothetical since he wasn't a blackguard Polish nobleman , it was absurd to speculate what his wife's rights would be if he WERE . 
But Newland Archer was too imaginative not to feel that , in his case and May's , the tie might gall for reasons far less gross and palpable . 
Lawrence Lefferts occurred to him as the husband who had most completely realised this enviable ideal . 
had what was known in New York as another establishment . 
The result , of course , was that the young girl who was the centre of this elaborate system of mystification remained the more inscrutable for her very frankness and assurance . 
The young man was sincerely but placidly in love . 
and he suspected , in the depths of her innocently gazing soul , a glow of feeling that it would be a joy to waken . 
But when he had gone the brief round of her he returned discouraged by the thought that all this frankness and innocence were only an artificial product . 
Untrained human nature was not frank and innocent it was full of the twists and defences of an instinctive guile . 
There was a certain triteness in these reflections they were those habitual to young men on the approach of their wedding day . 
But they were generally accompanied by a sense of compunction and self abasement of which Newland Archer felt no trace . 
that he had not a blank page to offer his bride in exchange for the unblemished one she was to give to him . 
why his bride should not have been allowed the same freedom of experience as himself . 
Hang Ellen Olenska ! he grumbled , as he covered his fire and began to undress . 
A few days later the bolt fell . 
The guests had been selected with a boldness and discrimination in which the initiated recognised the firm hand of Catherine the Great . 
Forty eight hours later the unbelievable had happened every one had refused the Mingotts' invitation except the Beauforts and old Mr. Jackson and his sister . 
The blow was unexpected but the Mingotts , as their way was , met it gallantly . 
, and immediately embracing his cause with an energy redoubled by her previous hesitations , put on her grey velvet bonnet and said I'll go and see Louisa van der Luyden . 
The New York of Newland Archer's day was a small and slippery pyramid , in which , as yet , hardly a fissure had been made or a foothold gained . 
had been raised above their level by marriage with one of the ruling clans . 
Firmly narrowing upward from this wealthy but inconspicuous substratum was the compact and dominant group which the Mingotts , Newlands , Chiverses and Mansons so actively represented . 
were aware that , in the eyes of the professional genealogist , only a still smaller number of families could lay claim to that eminence . 
Don't tell me , Mrs. Archer would say to her children , all this modern newspaper rubbish about a New York aristocracy . 
If there is one , neither the Mingotts nor the Mansons belong to it no , nor the Newlands or the Chiverses either . 
Our grandfathers and great grandfathers were just respectable English or Dutch merchants , who came to the colonies to make their fortune , and stayed here because they did so well . 
One of your great grandfathers signed the Declaration , and another was a general on Washington's staff , and received General Burgoyne's sword after the battle of Saratoga . 
These are things to be proud of , but they have nothing to do with rank or class . 
New York has always been a commercial community , and there are not more than three families in it who can claim an aristocratic origin in the real sense of the word . 
The tie between the Dagonets , the du Lacs of Maryland , and their aristocratic Cornish kinsfolk , the Trevennas , had always remained close and cordial . 
Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden had more than once paid long visits to the present head of the house of Trevenna , the Duke of St . 
Austrey , at his country seat in Cornwall and at St . 
Austrey in Gloucestershire and his Grace had frequently announced his intention of some day returning their visit . 
Their large solemn house in Madison Avenue was seldom opened , and when they came to town they received in it only their most intimate friends . 
I wish you would go with me , Newland , his mother said , suddenly pausing at the door of the Brown coupe . 
Mrs. Henry van der Luyden listened in silence to her cousin Mrs. Archer's narrative . 
faced that of her lovely ancestress . 
It was generally considered as fine as a Cabanel , and , though twenty years had elapsed since its execution , was still a perfect likeness . 
when she threw open her own doors to receive it . 
Mrs. van der Luyden , however , who had seldom surprised any one , now surprised them by reaching her long hand toward the bell rope . 
I think , she said , I should like Henry to hear what you have told me . 
A footman appeared , to whom she gravely added If Mr. van der Luyden has finished reading the newspaper , please ask him to be kind enough to come . 
I had just finished reading the Times , he said , laying his long finger tips together . 
In town my mornings are so much occupied that I find it more convenient to read the newspapers after luncheon . 
Yes my good father abhorred hurry . 
But I hope you HAD finished your reading , Henry ? his wife interposed . 
Quite quite , he reassured her . 
Of course , she ended , Augusta Welland and Mary Mingott both felt that , especially in view of Newland's engagement , you and Henry OUGHT TO KNOW . 
Ah said Mr. van der Luyden , drawing a deep breath . 
There was a silence during which the tick of the monumental ormolu clock on the white marble mantelpiece grew as loud as the boom of a minute gun . 
Mr. van der Luyden was the first to speak . 
You really think this is due to some some intentional interference of Lawrence Lefferts's ? he enquired , turning to Archer . 
I'm certain of it , sir . 
He's simply using Madame Olenska as a lightning rod I've seen him try the same thing often before . 
The LEFFERTSES ! said Mrs. van der Luyden . 
The LEFFERTSES ! echoed Mrs. Archer . 
What would uncle Egmont have said of Lawrence Lefferts's pronouncing on anybody's social position ? It shows what Society has come to . 
We'll hope it has not quite come to that , said Mr. van der Luyden firmly . 
Ah , if only you and Louisa went out more ! sighed Mrs. Archer . 
But instantly she became aware of her mistake . 
The van der Luydens were morbidly sensitive to any criticism of their secluded existence . 
They were the arbiters of fashion , the Court of last Appeal , and they knew it , and bowed to their fate . 
Newland Archer came to his mother's rescue . 
Everybody in New York knows what you and cousin Louisa represent . 
That's why Mrs. Mingott felt she ought not to allow this slight on Countess Olenska to pass without consulting you . 
Mrs. van der Luyden glanced at her husband , who glanced back at her . 
It is the principle that I dislike , said Mr. van der Luyden . 
As long as a member of a well known family is backed up by that family it should be considered final . 
It seems so to me , said his wife , as if she were producing a new thought . 
I had no idea , Mr. van der Luyden continued , that things had come to such a pass . 
He paused , and looked at his wife again . 
It occurs to me , my dear , that the Countess Olenska is already a sort of relation through Medora Manson's first husband . 
At any rate , she will be when Newland marries . 
He turned toward the young man . 
Have you read this morning's Times , Newland ? Why , yes , sir , said Archer , who usually tossed off half a dozen papers with his morning coffee . 
Husband and wife looked at each other again . 
Their pale eyes clung together in prolonged and serious consultation then a faint smile fluttered over Mrs. van der Luyden's face . 
She had evidently guessed and approved . 
Mr. van der Luyden turned to Mrs. Archer . 
He paused to let the irony of this sink in . 
As you know , this is impossible . 
Mrs. Archer sounded a sympathetic assent . 
But Newland tells me he has read this morning's Times therefore he has probably seen that Louisa's relative , the Duke of St . 
Austrey , arrives next week on the Russia . 
He is coming to enter his new sloop , the Guinevere , in next summer's International Cup Race and also to have a little canvasback shooting at Trevenna . 
I am sure Louisa will be as glad as I am if Countess Olenska will let us include her among our guests . 
Mrs. Archer , who knew this to be a hint that the seventeen hand chestnuts which were never kept waiting were at the door , rose with a hurried murmur of thanks . 
Mrs. van der Luyden beamed on her with the smile of Esther interceding with Ahasuerus but her husband raised a protesting hand . 
There is nothing to thank me for , dear Adeline nothing whatever . 
It was generally agreed in New York that the Countess Olenska had lost her looks . 
She had appeared there first , in Newland Archer's boyhood , as a brilliantly pretty little girl of nine or ten , of whom people said that she ought to be painted . 
the little girl received an expensive but incoherent education , which included drawing from the model , a thing never dreamed of before , and playing the piano in quintets with professional musicians . 
again pulled up stakes and departed with Ellen , who had grown into a tall bony girl with conspicuous eyes . 
Then came the news that Ellen's own marriage had ended in disaster , and that she was herself returning home to seek rest and oblivion among her kinsfolk . 
These things passed through Newland Archer's mind a week later as he watched the Countess Olenska enter the van der Luyden drawing room on the evening of the momentous dinner . 
The occasion was a solemn one , and he wondered a little nervously how she would carry it off . 
In the middle of the room she paused , looking about her with a grave mouth and smiling eyes and in that instant Newland Archer rejected the general verdict on her looks . 
It was true that her early radiance was gone . 
The red cheeks had paled she was thin , worn , a little older looking than her age , which must have been nearly thirty . 
were disappointed that her appearance was not more stylish for stylishness was what New York most valued . 
New York had expected something a good deal more reasonant in a young woman with such a history . 
The dinner was a somewhat formidable business . 
Dining with the van der Luydens was at best no light matter , and dining there with a Duke who was their cousin was almost a religious solemnity . 
between being merely a Duke and being the van der Luydens' Duke . 
It was for just such distinctions that the young man cherished his old New York even while he smiled at it . 
The van der Luydens had done their best to emphasise the importance of the occasion . 
and the Dagonet Crown Derby . 
Mrs. van der Luyden looked more than ever like a Cabanel , and Mrs. Archer , in her grandmother's seed pearls and emeralds , reminded her son of an Isabey miniature . 
It frightened him to think what must have gone to the making of her eyes . 
Austrey , who sat at his hostess's right , was naturally the chief figure of the evening . 
But if the Countess Olenska was less conspicuous than had been hoped , the Duke was almost invisible . 
he hardly gave the appearance of being in dinner attire . 
When the men joined the ladies after dinner the Duke went straight up to the Countess Olenska , and they sat down in a corner and plunged into animated talk . 
The two chatted together for nearly twenty minutes then the Countess rose and , walking alone across the wide drawing room , sat down at Newland Archer's side . 
It was not the custom in New York drawing rooms for a lady to get up and walk away from one gentleman in order to seek the company of another . 
Etiquette required that she should wait , immovable as an idol , while the men who wished to converse with her succeeded each other at her side . 
But the Countess was apparently unaware of having broken any rule she sat at perfect ease in a corner of the sofa beside Archer , and looked at him with the kindest eyes . 
I want you to talk to me about May , she said . 
Instead of answering her he asked You knew the Duke before ? Oh , yes we used to see him every winter at Nice . 
He's very fond of gambling he used to come to the house a great deal . 
This pleased her companion so much that he forgot the slight shock her previous remark had caused him . 
It was undeniably exciting to meet a lady who found the van der Luydens' Duke dull , and dared to utter the opinion . 
May is a darling I've seen no young girl in New York so handsome and so intelligent . 
Are you very much in love with her ? Newland Archer reddened and laughed . 
As much as a man can be . 
Yes , she answered , I'd forgotten . 
You must forgive me if I sometimes make these mistakes . 
I don't always remember that everything here is good that was that was bad where I've come from . 
She looked down at her Viennese fan of eagle feathers , and he saw that her lips trembled . 
I'm so sorry , he said impulsively but you ARE among friends here , you know . 
Wherever I go I have that feeling . 
That's why I came home . 
The drawing rooms were beginning to fill up with after dinner guests , and following Madame Olenska's glance Archer saw May Welland entering with her mother . 
In her dress of white and silver , with a wreath of silver blossoms in her hair , the tall girl looked like a Diana just alight from the chase . 
Oh , said Archer , I have so many rivals you see she's already surrounded . 
There's the Duke being introduced . 
Then stay with me a little longer , Madame Olenska said in a low tone , just touching his knee with her plumed fan . 
It was the lightest touch , but it thrilled him like a caress . 
The Countess greeted them with her grave smile , and Archer , feeling his host's admonitory glance on him , rose and surrendered his seat . 
Madame Olenska held out her hand as if to bid him goodbye . 
Tomorrow , then , after five I shall expect you , she said and then turned back to make room for Mr. Dagonet . 
Tomorrow Archer heard himself repeating , though there had been no engagement , and during their talk she had given him no hint that she wished to see him again . 
Behind her , waiting their turn to name themselves to the Countess , Archer noticed a number of the recalcitrant couples who had declined to meet her at Mrs. Lovell Mingott's . 
As Mrs. Archer remarked when the van der Luydens chose , they knew how to give a lesson . 
The wonder was that they chose so seldom . 
The young man felt a touch on his arm and saw Mrs. van der Luyden looking down on him from the pure eminence of black velvet and the family diamonds . 
It was good of you , dear Newland , to devote yourself so unselfishly to Madame Olenska . 
I told your cousin Henry he must really come to the rescue . 
He was aware of smiling at her vaguely , and she added , as if condescending to his natural shyness I've never seen May looking lovelier . 
The Duke thinks her the handsomest girl in the room . 
It was certainly a strange quarter to have settled in . 
The young man had spent an unsatisfactory day . 
He had lunched with the Wellands , hoping afterward to carry off May for a walk in the Park . 
Besides , it struck him as a little absurd to allude to the matter . 
But May had willed it so , and he felt himself somehow relieved of further responsibility and therefore at liberty , if he chose , to call on her cousin without telling her . 
As he stood on Madame Olenska's threshold curiosity was his uppermost feeling . 
He was puzzled by the tone in which she had summoned him he concluded that she was less simple than she seemed . 
The door was opened by a swarthy foreign looking maid , with a prominent bosom under a gay neckerchief , whom he vaguely fancied to be Sicilian . 
She welcomed him with all her white teeth , and answering his enquiries by a head shake of incomprehension led him through the narrow hall into a low firelit drawing room . 
He knew that the southern races communicated with each other in the language of pantomime , and was mortified to find her shrugs and smiles so unintelligible . 
What he saw , meanwhile , with the help of the lamp , was the faded shadowy charm of a room unlike any room he had known . 
Newland Archer prided himself on his knowledge of Italian art . 
He talked easily of Botticelli , and spoke of Fra Angelico with a faint condescension . 
He was sorry that he had not told May Welland of Countess Olenska's request , and a little disturbed by the thought that his betrothed might come in to see her cousin . 
It was odd to have summoned him in that way , and then forgotten him but Archer felt more curious than mortified . 
The atmosphere of the room was so different from any he had ever breathed that self consciousness vanished in the sense of adventure . 
His mind wandered away to the question of what May's drawing room would look like . 
He knew that Mr. Welland , who was behaving very handsomely , already had his eye on a newly built house in East Thirty ninth Street . 
, they were firm as to the need of a house for the returning couple . 
But beyond that his imagination could not travel . 
He knew the drawing room above had a bay window , but he could not fancy how May would deal with it . 
She submitted cheerfully to the purple satin and yellow tuftings of the Welland drawing room , to its sham Buhl tables and gilt vitrines full of modern Saxe . 
The round bosomed maid came in , drew the curtains , pushed back a log , and said consolingly Verra verra . 
When she had gone Archer stood up and began to wander about . 
Should he wait any longer ? His position was becoming rather foolish . 
Perhaps he had misunderstood Madame Olenska perhaps she had not invited him after all . 
Down the cobblestones of the quiet street came the ring of a stepper's hoofs they stopped before the house , and he caught the opening of a carriage door . 
Parting the curtains he looked out into the early dusk . 
Beaufort stood , hat in hand , saying something which his companion seemed to negative then they shook hands , and he jumped into his carriage while she mounted the steps . 
When she entered the room she showed no surprise at seeing Archer there surprise seemed the emotion that she was least addicted to . 
How do you like my funny house ? she asked . 
To me it's like heaven . 
As she spoke she untied her little velvet bonnet and tossing it away with her long cloak stood looking at him with meditative eyes . 
You've arranged it delightfully , he rejoined , alive to the flatness of the words , but imprisoned in the conventional by his consuming desire to be simple and striking . 
Oh , it's a poor little place . 
But at any rate it's less gloomy than the van der Luydens' . 
The words gave him an electric shock , for few were the rebellious spirits who would have dared to call the stately home of the van der Luydens gloomy . 
Those privileged to enter it shivered there , and spoke of it as handsome . 
But suddenly he was glad that she had given voice to the general shiver . 
It's delicious what you've done here , he repeated . 
She spoke so low that he hardly heard the last phrase but in his awkwardness he took it up . 
You like so much to be alone ? Yes as long as my friends keep me from feeling lonely . 
She sat down near the fire , said Nastasia will bring the tea presently , and signed to him to return to his armchair , adding I see you've already chosen your corner . 
Leaning back , she folded her arms behind her head , and looked at the fire under drooping lids . 
This is the hour I like best don't you ? A proper sense of his dignity caused him to answer I was afraid you'd forgotten the hour . 
Beaufort must have been very engrossing . 
Why have you waited long ? Mr. Beaufort took me to see a number of houses since it seems I'm not to be allowed to stay in this one . 
What does it matter where one lives ? I'm told this street is respectable . 
He was touched , as he had been the evening before when she spoke of her need of guidance . 
That's what your friends want you to feel . 
New York's an awfully safe place , he added with a flash of sarcasm . 
Yes , isn't it ? One feels that , she cried , missing the mockery . 
Being here is like like being taken on a holiday when one has been a good little girl and done all one's lessons . 
The analogy was well meant , but did not altogether please him . 
He did not mind being flippant about New York , but disliked to hear any one else take the same tone . 
He wondered if she did not begin to see what a powerful engine it was , and how nearly it had crushed her . 
Archer inclined to the former theory he fancied that her New York was still completely undifferentiated , and the conjecture nettled him . 
Last night , he said , New York laid itself out for you . 
The van der Luydens do nothing by halves . 
No how kind they are ! It was such a nice party . 
Every one seems to have such an esteem for them . 
The terms were hardly adequate she might have spoken in that way of a tea party at the dear old Miss Lannings' . 
The van der Luydens , said Archer , feeling himself pompous as he spoke , are the most powerful influence in New York society . 
Unfortunately owing to her health they receive very seldom . 
She unclasped her hands from behind her head , and looked at him meditatively . 
Isn't that perhaps the reason ? The reason ? For their great influence that they make themselves so rare . 
He coloured a little , stared at her and suddenly felt the penetration of the remark . 
At a stroke she had pricked the van der Luydens and they collapsed . 
He laughed , and sacrificed them . 
Nastasia brought the tea , with handleless Japanese cups and little covered dishes , placing the tray on a low table . 
But you'll explain these things to me you'll tell me all I ought to know , Madame Olenska continued , leaning forward to hand him his cup . 
It's you who are telling me opening my eyes to things I'd looked at so long that I'd ceased to see them . 
She detached a small gold cigarette case from one of her bracelets , held it out to him , and took a cigarette herself . 
On the chimney were long spills for lighting them . 
Ah , then we can both help each other . 
But I want help so much more . 
You must tell me just what to do . 
Viewed thus , as through the wrong end of a telescope , it looked disconcertingly small and distant but then from Samarkand it would . 
A flame darted from the logs and she bent over the fire , stretching her thin hands so close to it that a faint halo shone about the oval nails . 
The light touched to russet the rings of dark hair escaping from her braids , and made her pale face paler . 
There are plenty of people to tell you what to do , Archer rejoined , obscurely envious of them . 
Oh all my aunts ? And my dear old Granny ? She considered the idea impartially . 
They're all a little vexed with me for setting up for myself poor Granny especially . 
But the idea of Beaufort gnawed him . 
I think I understand how you feel , he said . 
Still , your family can advise you explain differences show you the way . 
She lifted her thin black eyebrows . 
Is New York such a labyrinth ? I thought it so straight up and down like Fifth Avenue . 
Everything may be labelled but everybody is not . 
I may simplify too much but you'll warn me if I do . 
She turned from the fire to look at him . 
There are only two people here who make me feel as if they understood what I mean and could explain things to me you and Mr. Beaufort . 
Archer winced at the joining of the names , and then , with a quick readjustment , understood , sympathised and pitied . 
So close to the powers of evil she must have lived that she still breathed more freely in their air . 
But since she felt that he understood her also , his business would be to make her see Beaufort as he really was , with all he represented and abhor it . 
He answered gently I understand . 
But just at first don't let go of your old friends' hands I mean the older women , your Granny Mingott , Mrs. Welland , Mrs. van der Luyden . 
They like and admire you they want to help you . 
She shook her head and sighed . 
Oh , I know I know ! But on condition that they don't hear anything unpleasant . 
Aunt Welland put it in those very words when I tried . 
Madame Olenska ! Oh , don't , Ellen , he cried , starting up and bending over her . 
It was burnt into his consciousness that he had called her Ellen called her so twice and that she had not noticed it . 
Far down the inverted telescope he saw the faint white figure of May Welland in New York . 
Suddenly Nastasia put her head in to say something in her rich Italian . 
Madame Olenska , again with a hand at her hair , uttered an exclamation of assent a flashing Gia gia and the Duke of St . 
Austrey entered , piloting a tremendous blackwigged and red plumed lady in overflowing furs . 
My dear Countess , I've brought an old friend of mine to see you Mrs. Struthers . 
She wasn't asked to the party last night , and she wants to know you . 
The Duke beamed on the group , and Madame Olenska advanced with a murmur of welcome toward the queer couple . 
Of course I want to know you , my dear , cried Mrs. Struthers in a round rolling voice that matched her bold feathers and her brazen wig . 
I want to know everybody who's young and interesting and charming . 
And the Duke thought you'd be tempted by Sarasate . 
You'll find a number of your friends . 
Madame Olenska's face grew brilliant with pleasure . 
How kind ! How good of the Duke to think of me ! She pushed a chair up to the tea table and Mrs. Struthers sank into it delectably . 
Of course I shall be too happy to come . 
That's all right , my dear . 
And bring your young gentleman with you . 
Mrs. Struthers extended a hail fellow hand to Archer . 
I can't put a name to you but I'm sure I've met you I've met everybody , here , or in Paris or London . 
Aren't you in diplomacy ? All the diplomatists come to me . 
You like music too ? Duke , you must be sure to bring him . 
He was not sorry for the denouement of his visit he only wished it had come sooner , and spared him a certain waste of emotion . 
As he went out into the wintry night , New York again became vast and imminent , and May Welland the loveliest woman in it . 
He turned into his florist's to send her the daily box of lilies of the valley which , to his confusion , he found he had forgotten that morning . 
As he wrote a word on his card and waited for an envelope he glanced about the embowered shop , and his eye lit on a cluster of yellow roses . 
He had never seen any as sun golden before , and his first impulse was to send them to May instead of the lilies . 
But they did not look like her there was something too rich , too strong , in their fiery beauty . 
They'll go at once ? he enquired , pointing to the roses . 
The florist assured him that they would . 
X. The next day he persuaded May to escape for a walk in the Park after luncheon . 
The bare vaulting of trees along the Mall was ceiled with lapis lazuli , and arched above snow that shone like splintered crystals . 
It was the weather to call out May's radiance , and she burned like a young maple in the frost . 
Archer was proud of the glances turned on her , and the simple joy of possessorship cleared away his underlying perplexities . 
It's so delicious waking every morning to smell lilies of the valley in one's room ! she said . 
Ah they would ! laughed Archer , amused at her keenness . 
Was that right ? How dear of you ! Anything of that kind delights her . 
She seems so surprised to receive flowers . 
Don't people send them in Europe ? She thinks it such a pretty custom . 
Oh , well , no wonder mine were overshadowed by Beaufort's , said Archer irritably . 
Then he remembered that he had not put a card with the roses , and was vexed at having spoken of them . 
He wanted to say I called on your cousin yesterday , but hesitated . 
If Madame Olenska had not spoken of his visit it might seem awkward that he should . 
Yet not to do so gave the affair an air of mystery that he disliked . 
To shake off the question he began to talk of their own plans , their future , and Mrs. Welland's insistence on a long engagement . 
If you call it long ! Isabel Chivers and Reggie were engaged for two years Grace and Thorley for nearly a year and a half . 
Why aren't we very well off as we are ? It was the traditional maidenly interrogation , and he felt ashamed of himself for finding it singularly childish . 
No doubt she simply echoed what was said for her but she was nearing her twenty second birthday , and he wondered at what age nice women began to speak for themselves . 
What if , when he had bidden May Welland to open hers , they could only look out blankly at blankness ? We might be much better off . 
We might be altogether together we might travel . 
That would be lovely , she owned she would love to travel . 
But her mother would not understand their wanting to do things so differently . 
As if the mere differently' didn't account for it ! the wooer insisted . 
Newland ! You're so original ! she exulted . 
Original ! We're all as like each other as those dolls cut out of the same folded paper . 
We're like patterns stencilled on a wall . 
Mercy shall we elope ? she laughed . 
If you would You DO love me , Newland ! I'm so happy . 
She knew very well that they couldn't , but it was troublesome to have to produce a reason . 
I'm not clever enough to argue with you . 
But that kind of thing is rather vulgar , isn't it ? she suggested , relieved to have hit on a word that would assuredly extinguish the whole subject . 
Are you so much afraid , then , of being vulgar ? She was evidently staggered by this . 
Of course I should hate it so would you , she rejoined , a trifle irritably . 
There's nothing like it in the rue de la Paix , she said . 
He was out of spirits and slightly out of temper , and a haunting horror of doing the same thing every day at the same hour besieged his brain . 
He knew not only what they were likely to be talking about , but the part each one would take in the discussion . 
would also doubtless be thoroughly gone into . 
were few in New York , those driving their own carriages still fewer , and the appearance of Miss Fanny Ring in Fifth Avenue at the fashionable hour had profoundly agitated society . 
Only the day before , her carriage had passed Mrs. Lovell Mingott's , and the latter had instantly rung the little bell at her elbow and ordered the coachman to drive her home . 
What if it had happened to Mrs. van der Luyden ? people asked each other with a shudder . 
Archer could hear Lawrence Lefferts , at that very hour , holding forth on the disintegration of society . 
as if he had not seen her . 
Angry ? With whom ? About what ? Miss Sophy Jackson has just been here . 
She brought word that her brother would come in after dinner she couldn't say very much , because he forbade her to he wishes to give all the details himself . 
He's with cousin Louisa van der Luyden now . 
For heaven's sake , my dear girl , try a fresh start . 
It would take an omniscient Deity to know what you're talking about . 
It's not a time to be profane , Newland . 
Mother feels badly enough about your not going to church . 
With a groan he plunged back into his book . 
Your friend Madame Olenska was at Mrs. Lemuel Struthers's party last night she went there with the Duke and Mr. Beaufort . 
At the last clause of this announcement a senseless anger swelled the young man's breast . 
To smother it he laughed . 
Well , what of it ? I knew she meant to . 
Janey paled and her eyes began to project . 
You knew she meant to and you didn't try to stop her ? To warn her ? Stop her ? Warn her ? He laughed again . 
I'm not engaged to be married to the Countess Olenska ! The words had a fantastic sound in his own ears . 
You're marrying into her family . 
Oh , family family ! he jeered . 
Newland don't you care about Family ? Not a brass farthing . 
Nor about what cousin Louisa van der Luyden will think ? Not the half of one if she thinks such old maid's rubbish . 
Mother is not an old maid , said his virgin sister with pinched lips . 
But he saw her long gentle face puckering into tears , and felt ashamed of the useless pain he was inflicting . 
Hang Countess Olenska ! Don't be a goose , Janey I'm not her keeper . 
Well what harm was there in inviting her ? She was the best looking woman in the room she made the dinner a little less funereal than the usual van der Luyden banquet . 
You know cousin Henry asked her to please you he persuaded cousin Louisa . 
And now they're so upset that they're going back to Skuytercliff tomorrow . 
I think , Newland , you'd better come down . 
You don't seem to understand how mother feels . 
In the drawing room Newland found his mother . 
She raised a troubled brow from her needlework to ask Has Janey told you ? Yes . 
He tried to keep his tone as measured as her own . 
But I can't take it very seriously . 
Consider ! Well , who is but who has good music , and amuses people on Sunday evenings , when the whole of New York is dying of inanition . 
Good music ? All I know is , there was a woman who got up on a table and sang the things they sing at the places you go to in Paris . 
There was smoking and champagne . 
Well that kind of thing happens in other places , and the world still goes on . 
I don't suppose , dear , you're really defending the French Sunday ? I've heard you often enough , mother , grumble at the English Sunday when we've been in London . 
New York is neither Paris nor London . 
Oh , no , it's not ! her son groaned . 
Ellen Olenska especially she came back to get away from the kind of life people lead in brilliant societies . 
He frowned , and she continued I thought you might explain to her what you've just said that society abroad is different . 
that people are not as particular , and that Madame Olenska may not have realised how we feel about such things . 
It would be , you know , dear , she added with an innocent adroitness , in Madame Olenska's interest if you did . 
Dearest mother , I really don't see how we're concerned in the matter . 
The Duke took Madame Olenska to Mrs. Struthers's in fact he brought Mrs. Struthers to call on her . 
I was there when they came . 
If the van der Luydens want to quarrel with anybody , the real culprit is under their own roof . 
Quarrel ? Newland , did you ever know of cousin Henry's quarrelling ? Besides , the Duke's his guest and a stranger too . 
Strangers don't discriminate how should they ? Countess Olenska is a New Yorker , and should have respected the feelings of New York . 
Well , then , if they must have a victim , you have my leave to throw Madame Olenska to them , cried her son , exasperated . 
I don't see myself or you either offering ourselves up to expiate her crimes . 
Oh , of course you see only the Mingott side , his mother answered , in the sensitive tone that was her nearest approach to anger . 
The sad butler drew back the drawing room portieres and announced Mr. Henry van der Luyden . 
Mrs. Archer dropped her needle and pushed her chair back with an agitated hand . 
Another lamp , she cried to the retreating servant , while Janey bent over to straighten her mother's cap . 
Mr. van der Luyden's figure loomed on the threshold , and Newland Archer went forward to greet his cousin . 
We were just talking about you , sir , he said . 
Mr. van der Luyden seemed overwhelmed by the announcement . 
I have just been to see her , said Mr. van der Luyden , complacency restored to his brow . 
He sank into the chair , laid his hat and gloves on the floor beside him in the old fashioned way , and went on She has a real gift for arranging flowers . 
I had sent her a few carnations from Skuytercliff , and I was astonished . 
Instead of massing them in big bunches as our head gardener does , she had scattered them about loosely , here and there . 
The Duke had told me he said Go and see how cleverly she's arranged her drawing room . 
I should really like to take Louisa to see her , if the neighbourhood were not so unpleasant . 
A dead silence greeted this unusual flow of words from Mr. van der Luyden . 
I don't know if you've heard Mrs. Archer produced an indulgent smile . 
Has the Duke been carrying her off to parties ? You know what these English grandees are . 
Louisa and I are very fond of our cousin but it's hopeless to expect people who are accustomed to the European courts to trouble themselves about our little republican distinctions . 
The Duke goes where he's amused . 
Mr. van der Luyden paused , but no one spoke . 
Yes it seems he took her with him last night to Mrs. Lemuel Struthers's . 
Sillerton Jackson has just been to us with the foolish story , and Louisa was rather troubled . 
So I thought the shortest way was to go straight to Countess Olenska and explain by the merest hint , you know how we feel in New York about certain things . 
I felt I might , without indelicacy , because the evening she dined with us she rather suggested . 
rather let me see that she would be grateful for guidance . 
Mr. van der Luyden looked about the room with what would have been self satisfaction on features less purged of the vulgar passions . 
On his face it became a mild benevolence which Mrs. Archer's countenance dutifully reflected . 
How kind you both are , dear Henry always ! Newland will particularly appreciate what you have done because of dear May and his new relations . 
She shot an admonitory glance at her son , who said Immensely , sir . 
But I was sure you'd like Madame Olenska . 
Mr. van der Luyden looked at him with extreme gentleness . 
I never ask to my house , my dear Newland , he said , any one whom I do not like . 
And so I have just told Sillerton Jackson . 
With a glance at the clock he rose and added But Louisa will be waiting . 
We are dining early , to take the Duke to the Opera . 
After the portieres had solemnly closed behind their visitor a silence fell upon the Archer family . 
Gracious how romantic ! at last broke explosively from Janey . 
No one knew exactly what inspired her elliptic comments , and her relations had long since given up trying to interpret them . 
Mrs. Archer shook her head with a sigh . 
Provided it all turns out for the best , she said , in the tone of one who knows how surely it will not . 
Newland , you must stay and see Sillerton Jackson when he comes this evening I really shan't know what to say to him . 
Poor mother ! But he won't come her son laughed , stooping to kiss away her frown . 
Old Mr. Letterblair , the accredited legal adviser of three generations of New York gentility , throned behind his mahogany desk in evident perplexity . 
He leaned back in his chair with a furrowed brow . 
For family reasons he continued . 
The Mingott family , said Mr. Letterblair with an explanatory smile and bow . 
Mrs. Manson Mingott sent for me yesterday . 
Her grand daughter the Countess Olenska wishes to sue her husband for divorce . 
Certain papers have been placed in my hands . 
He paused and drummed on his desk . 
In view of your prospective alliance with the family I should like to consult you to consider the case with you before taking any farther steps . 
Archer felt the blood in his temples . 
He had seen the Countess Olenska only once since his visit to her , and then at the Opera , in the Mingott box . 
During this interval she had become a less vivid and importunate image , receding from his foreground as May Welland resumed her rightful place in it . 
He had not heard her divorce spoken of since Janey's first random allusion to it , and had dismissed the tale as unfounded gossip . 
should be so evidently planning to draw him into the affair . 
After all , there were plenty of Mingott men for such jobs , and as yet he was not even a Mingott by marriage . 
He waited for the senior partner to continue . 
Mr. Letterblair unlocked a drawer and drew out a packet . 
If you will run your eye over these papers Archer frowned . 
I beg your pardon , sir but just because of the prospective relationship , I should prefer your consulting Mr. Skipworth or Mr. Redwood . 
Mr. Letterblair looked surprised and slightly offended . 
It was unusual for a junior to reject such an opening . 
I respect your scruple , sir but in this case I believe true delicacy requires you to do as I ask . 
Indeed , the suggestion is not mine but Mrs. Manson Mingott's and her son's . 
I have seen Lovell Mingott and also Mr. Welland . 
Archer felt his temper rising . 
He had been somewhat languidly drifting with events for the last fortnight , and letting May's fair looks and radiant nature obliterate the rather importunate pressure of the Mingott claims . 
Her uncles ought to deal with this , he said . 
The matter has been gone into by the family . 
They are opposed to the Countess's idea but she is firm , and insists on a legal opinion . 
The young man was silent he had not opened the packet in his hand . 
Does she want to marry again ? I believe it is suggested but she denies it . 
Then Will you oblige me , Mr. Archer , by first looking through these papers ? Afterward , when we have talked the case over , I will give you my opinion . 
Archer withdrew reluctantly with the unwelcome documents . 
Since their last meeting he had half unconsciously collaborated with events in ridding himself of the burden of Madame Olenska . 
His hour alone with her by the firelight had drawn them into a momentary intimacy on which the Duke of St . 
Austrey's intrusion with Mrs. Lemuel Struthers , and the Countess's joyous greeting of them , had rather providentially broken . 
To look at the matter in this light simplified his own case and surprisingly furbished up all the dim domestic virtues . 
He had even yielded to her wish for a long engagement , since she had found the one disarming answer to his plea for haste . 
That was the old New York note that was the kind of answer he would like always to be sure of his wife's making . 
If one had habitually breathed the New York air there were times when anything less crystalline seemed stifling . 
The papers he had retired to read did not tell him much in fact but they plunged him into an atmosphere in which he choked and spluttered . 
They consisted mainly of an exchange of letters between Count Olenski's solicitors and a French legal firm to whom the Countess had applied for the settlement of her financial situation . 
There was also a short letter from the Count to his wife after reading it , Newland Archer rose , jammed the papers back into their envelope , and reentered Mr. Letterblair's office . 
Here are the letters , sir . 
If you wish , I'll see Madame Olenska , he said in a constrained voice . 
Thank you thank you , Mr. Archer . 
Come and dine with me tonight if you're free , and we'll go into the matter afterward in case you wish to call on our client tomorrow . 
Newland Archer walked straight home again that afternoon . 
It was impossible to decide otherwise than he had done he must see Madame Olenska himself rather than let her secrets be bared to other eyes . 
Are we only Pharisees after all ? he wondered , puzzled by the effort to reconcile his instinctive disgust at human vileness with his equally instinctive pity for human frailty . 
For the first time he perceived how elementary his own principles had always been . 
When the fact dawned on him it nearly broke his heart , but now it seemed the redeeming feature of the case . 
All the elderly ladies whom Archer knew regarded any woman who loved imprudently as necessarily unscrupulous and designing , and mere simple minded man as powerless in her clutches . 
The only thing to do was to persuade him , as early as possible , to marry a nice girl , and then trust to her to look after him . 
In the complicated old European communities , Archer began to guess , love problems might be less simple and less easily classified . 
The note was written on a rather untidy half sheet , without date or address , but her hand was firm and free . 
He was at Mr. Letterblair's punctually at seven , glad of the pretext for excusing himself soon after dinner . 
He had formed his own opinion from the papers entrusted to him , and did not especially want to go into the matter with his senior partner . 
After a velvety oyster soup came shad and cucumbers , then a young broiled turkey with corn fritters , followed by a canvas back with currant jelly and a celery mayonnaise . 
Mr. Letterblair , who lunched on a sandwich and tea , dined deliberately and deeply , and insisted on his guest's doing the same . 
Archer instantly felt himself on the other side of the argument . 
But why , sir ? If there ever was a case Well what's the use ? SHE'S here he's there the Atlantic's between them . 
She'll never get back a dollar more of her money than what he's voluntarily returned to her their damned heathen marriage settlements take precious good care of that . 
As things go over there , Olenski's acted generously he might have turned her out without a penny . 
The young man knew this and was silent . 
I understand , though , Mr. Letterblair continued , that she attaches no importance to the money . 
I think that's for her to decide . 
Yes but it might make some unpleasant talk if he really defends the suit . 
Unpleasant ! said Archer explosively . 
You agree with me ? Mr. Letterblair resumed , after a waiting silence . 
Well , then , I may count on you the Mingotts may count on you to use your influence against the idea ? Archer hesitated . 
I can't pledge myself till I've seen the Countess Olenska , he said at length . 
Mr. Archer , I don't understand you . 
Do you want to marry into a family with a scandalous divorce suit hanging over it ? I don't think that has anything to do with the case . 
Mr. Letterblair put down his glass of port and fixed on his young partner a cautious and apprehensive gaze . 
Archer understood that he ran the risk of having his mandate withdrawn , and for some obscure reason he disliked the prospect . 
Mr. Letterblair nodded approvingly at an excess of caution worthy of the best New York tradition , and the young man , glancing at his watch , pleaded an engagement and took leave . 
Old fashioned New York dined at seven , and the habit of after dinner calls , though derided in Archer's set , still generally prevailed . 
, and the occasional figure of an elderly gentleman in heavy overcoat and muffler ascending a brownstone doorstep and disappearing into a gas lit hall . 
It was not an Opera night , and no one was giving a party , so that Beaufort's outing was undoubtedly of a clandestine nature . 
Beyond the small and slippery pyramid which composed Mrs. Archer's world lay the almost unmapped quarter inhabited by artists , musicians and people who wrote . 
These scattered fragments of humanity had never shown any desire to be amalgamated with the social structure . 
In spite of odd ways they were said to be , for the most part , quite respectable but they preferred to keep to themselves . 
Medora Manson , in her prosperous days , had inaugurated a literary salon but it had soon died out owing to the reluctance of the literary to frequent it . 
Mrs. Archer and her group felt a certain timidity concerning these persons . 
They were odd , they were uncertain , they had things one didn't know about in the background of their lives and minds . 
When I was a girl , Mrs. Archer used to say , we knew everybody between the Battery and Canal Street and only the people one knew had carriages . 
It was perfectly easy to place any one then now one can't tell , and I prefer not to try . 
Possibly Beaufort , who was her match in daring , would have succeeded in bringing about a fusion but his grand house and silk stockinged footmen were an obstacle to informal sociability . 
Newland Archer had been aware of these things ever since he could remember , and had accepted them as part of the structure of his universe . 
, of Thackeray , Browning or William Morris . 
But such things were inconceivable in New York , and unsettling to think of . 
He was reminded of this by trying to picture the society in which the Countess Olenska had lived and suffered , and also perhaps tasted mysterious joys . 
He remembered with what amusement she had told him that her grandmother Mingott and the Wellands objected to her living in a Bohemian quarter given over to people who wrote . 
It was not the peril but the poverty that her family disliked but that shade escaped her , and she supposed they considered literature compromising . 
, though chiefly works of fiction , had whetted Archer's interest with such new names as those of Paul Bourget , Huysmans , and the Goncourt brothers . 
Nastasia opened the door , smiling mysteriously . 
The banker stood leaning against the mantelshelf , which was draped with an old embroidery held in place by brass candelabra containing church candies of yellowish wax . 
He had thrust his chest out , supporting his shoulders against the mantel and resting his weight on one large patent leather foot . 
As Archer entered he was smiling and looking down on his hostess , who sat on a sofa placed at right angles to the chimney . 
But Madame Olenska , heedless of tradition , was attired in a long robe of red velvet bordered about the chin and down the front with glossy black fur . 
Lord love us three whole days at Skuytercliff ! Beaufort was saying in his loud sneering voice as Archer entered . 
You'd better take all your furs , and a hot water bottle . 
Why ? Is the house so cold ? she asked , holding out her left hand to Archer in a way mysteriously suggesting that she expected him to kiss it . 
No but the missus is , said Beaufort , nodding carelessly to the young man . 
But I thought her so kind . 
She came herself to invite me . 
Granny says I must certainly go . 
Granny would , of course . 
And I say it's a shame you're going to miss the little oyster supper I'd planned for you at Delmonico's next Sunday , with Campanini and Scalchi and a lot of jolly people . 
She looked doubtfully from the banker to Archer . 
Ah that does tempt me ! Except the other evening at Mrs. Struthers's I've not met a single artist since I've been here . 
What kind of artists ? I know one or two painters , very good fellows , that I could bring to see you if you'd allow me , said Archer boldly . 
But I was really thinking of dramatic artists , singers , actors , musicians . 
My husband's house was always full of them . 
She said the words my husband as if no sinister associations were connected with them , and in a tone that seemed almost to sigh over the lost delights of her married life . 
I do think , she went on , addressing both men , that the imprevu adds to one's enjoyment . 
It's perhaps a mistake to see the same people every day . 
It's confoundedly dull , anyhow New York is dying of dullness , Beaufort grumbled . 
And when I try to liven it up for you , you go back on me . 
How delicious ! May I think it over , and write to you tomorrow morning ? She spoke amiably , yet with the least hint of dismissal in her voice . 
Beaufort evidently felt it , and being unused to dismissals , stood staring at her with an obstinate line between his eyes . 
Why not now ? It's too serious a question to decide at this late hour . 
Do you call it late ? She returned his glance coolly . 
Yes because I have still to talk business with Mr. Archer for a little while . 
For a moment Archer fancied that Mr. Letterblair must have told her of his coming but the irrelevance of her next remark made him change his mind . 
You know painters , then ? You live in their milieu ? she asked , her eyes full of interest . 
I don't know that the arts have a milieu here , any of them they're more like a very thinly settled outskirt . 
But you care for such things ? Immensely . 
When I'm in Paris or London I never miss an exhibition . 
I try to keep up . 
She looked down at the tip of the little satin boot that peeped from her long draperies . 
I used to care immensely too my life was full of such things . 
But now I want to try not to . 
You want to try not to ? Yes I want to cast off all my old life , to become just like everybody else here . 
You'll never be like everybody else , he said . 
She raised her straight eyebrows a little . 
Ah , don't say that . 
If you knew how I hate to be different ! Her face had grown as sombre as a tragic mask . 
She leaned forward , clasping her knee in her thin hands , and looking away from him into remote dark distances . 
I want to get away from it all , she insisted . 
He waited a moment and cleared his throat . 
Mr. Letterblair has told me . 
Ah ? That's the reason I've come . 
He asked me to you see I'm in the firm . 
She looked slightly surprised , and then her eyes brightened . 
He perceived that she had spoken of business to Beaufort simply to get rid of him and to have routed Beaufort was something of a triumph . 
I am here to talk about it , he repeated . 
She sat silent , her head still propped by the arm that rested on the back of the sofa . 
Her face looked pale and extinguished , as if dimmed by the rich red of her dress . 
She struck Archer , of a sudden , as a pathetic and even pitiful figure . 
Now we're coming to hard facts , he thought , conscious in himself of the same instinctive recoil that he had so often criticised in his mother and her contemporaries . 
How little practice he had had in dealing with unusual situations ! Their very vocabulary was unfamiliar to him , and seemed to belong to fiction and the stage . 
In face of what was coming he felt as awkward and embarrassed as a boy . 
After a pause Madame Olenska broke out with unexpected vehemence I want to be free I want to wipe out all the past . 
Then you'll help me ? First he hesitated perhaps I ought to know a little more . 
You know about my husband my life with him ? He made a sign of assent . 
Well then what more is there ? In this country are such things tolerated ? I'm a Protestant our church does not forbid divorce in such cases . 
They were both silent again , and Archer felt the spectre of Count Olenski's letter grimacing hideously between them . 
The letter filled only half a page , and was just what he had described it to be in speaking of it to Mr. Letterblair the vague charge of an angry blackguard . 
But how much truth was behind it ? Only Count Olenski's wife could tell . 
I've looked through the papers you gave to Mr. Letterblair , he said at length . 
Well can there be anything more abominable ? No. She changed her position slightly , screening her eyes with her lifted hand . 
And it's ruled , in spite of appearances , by a few people with well , rather old fashioned ideas . 
She said nothing , and he continued Our ideas about marriage and divorce are particularly old fashioned . 
Our legislation favours divorce our social customs don't . 
A little travelling clock ticked purringly at her elbow , and a log broke in two and sent up a shower of sparks . 
The whole hushed and brooding room seemed to be waiting silently with Archer . 
Yes , she murmured at length , that's what my family tell me . 
It's not unnatural OUR family , she corrected herself and Archer coloured . 
For you'll be my cousin soon , she continued gently . 
How could he say Yes , if what your husband hints is true , or if you've no way of disproving it ? Sincerely she interjected , as he was about to speak . 
He looked down into the fire . 
But aren't you as free as air as it is ? he returned . 
Who can touch you ? Mr. Letterblair tells me the financial question has been settled Oh , yes , she said indifferently . 
No , she acquiesced and her tone was so faint and desolate that he felt a sudden remorse for his own hard thoughts . 
Better keep on the surface , in the prudent old New York way , than risk uncovering a wound he could not heal . 
It's my business , you know , he went on , to help you to see these things as the people who are fondest of you see them . 
She said slowly No it wouldn't be fair . 
The fire had crumbled down to greyness , and one of the lamps made a gurgling appeal for attention . 
Madame Olenska rose , wound it up and returned to the fire , but without resuming her seat . 
Her remaining on her feet seemed to signify that there was nothing more for either of them to say , and Archer stood up also . 
Very well I will do what you wish , she said abruptly . 
The blood rushed to his forehead and , taken aback by the suddenness of her surrender , he caught her two hands awkwardly in his . 
I I do want to help you , he said . 
Good night , my cousin . 
He bent and laid his lips on her hands , which were cold and lifeless . 
It was a crowded night at Wallack's theatre . 
The play was The Shaughraun , with Dion Boucicault in the title role and Harry Montague and Ada Dyas as the lovers . 
The popularity of the admirable English company was at its height , and the Shaughraun always packed the house . 
There was one episode , in particular , that held the house from floor to ceiling . 
It was that in which Harry Montague , after a sad , almost monosyllabic scene of parting with Miss Dyas , bade her good bye , and turned to go . 
Around her neck was a narrow black velvet ribbon with the ends falling down her back . 
When her wooer turned from her she rested her arms against the mantel shelf and bowed her face in her hands . 
And on this silent parting the curtain fell . 
It was always for the sake of that particular scene that Newland Archer went to see The Shaughraun . 
It would have been as difficult to discover any resemblance between the two situations as between the appearance of the persons concerned . 
Archer had always been inclined to think that chance and circumstance played a small part in shaping people's lots compared with their innate tendency to have things happen to them . 
This tendency he had felt from the first in Madame Olenska . 
The exciting fact was her having lived in an atmosphere so thick with drama that her own tendency to provoke it had apparently passed unperceived . 
Archer had left her with the conviction that Count Olenski's accusation was not unfounded . 
The mysterious person who figured in his wife's past as the secretary had probably not been unrewarded for his share in her escape . 
To have to make this fact plain to her and to witness her resigned acceptance of it had been intolerably painful to him . 
He felt himself drawn to her by obscure feelings of jealousy and pity , as if her dumbly confessed error had put her at his mercy , humbling yet endearing her . 
He was glad it was to him she had revealed her secret , rather than to the cold scrutiny of Mr. Letterblair , or the embarrassed gaze of her family . 
He had called only twice on Madame Olenska , and each time he had sent her a box of yellow roses , and each time without a card . 
She had never before made any allusion to the flowers , and he supposed she had never thought of him as the sender . 
Now her sudden recognition of the gift , and her associating it with the tender leave taking on the stage , filled him with an agitated pleasure . 
I was thinking of that too I was going to leave the theatre in order to take the picture away with me , he said . 
To his surprise her colour rose , reluctantly and duskily . 
In obedience to a long established habit , the Wellands had left the previous week for St . 
Augustine , where , out of regard for the supposed susceptibility of Mr. Welland's bronchial tubes , they always spent the latter part of the winter . 
Mr. Welland was a mild and silent man , with no opinions but with many habits . 
With these habits none might interfere and one of them demanded that his wife and daughter should always go with him on his annual journey to the south . 
Augustine alone and his sons , who were both in the law , and could not leave New York during the winter , always joined him for Easter and travelled back with him . 
It was impossible for Archer to discuss the necessity of May's accompanying her father . 
The reputation of the Mingotts' family physician was largely based on the attack of pneumonia which Mr. Welland had never had and his insistence on St . 
Archer would have liked to join the travellers and have a few weeks of sunshine and boating with his betrothed but he too was bound by custom and conventions . 
He was conscious that Madame Olenska was looking at him under lowered lids . 
I have done what you wished what you advised , she said abruptly . 
Ah I'm glad , he returned , embarrassed by her broaching the subject at such a moment . 
I understand that you were right , she went on a little breathlessly but sometimes life is difficult . 
Archer stood up , and left the box and the theatre . 
Only the day before he had received a letter from May Welland in which , with characteristic candour , she had asked him to be kind to Ellen in their absence . 
She likes you and admires you so much and you know , though she doesn't show it , she's still very lonely and unhappy . 
I don't think Granny understands her , or uncle Lovell Mingott either they really think she's much worldlier and fonder of society than she is . 
And I can quite see that New York must seem dull to her , though the family won't admit it . 
I think she's been used to lots of things we haven't got wonderful music , and picture shows , and celebrities artists and authors and all the clever people you admire . 
He had an idea that she knew how to take care of herself a good deal better than the ingenuous May imagined . 
waiting their opportunity in the middle distance . 
Yet he never saw her , or exchanged a word with her , without feeling that , after all , May's ingenuousness almost amounted to a gift of divination . 
Ellen Olenska was lonely and she was unhappy . 
He had caught sight , across the house , of Winsett's shabby round shouldered back , and had once noticed his eyes turned toward the Beaufort box . 
The two men shook hands , and Winsett proposed a bock at a little German restaurant around the corner . 
Archer , he could not have said why , was slightly annoyed . 
It's not for an interview , I hope ? he laughed . 
Well not for the press just for myself , Winsett rejoined . 
A pleasant glow dilated Archer's heart . 
There was nothing extraordinary in the tale any woman would have done as much for a neighbour's child . 
That is the Countess Olenska a granddaughter of old Mrs. Mingott's . 
Whew a Countess ! whistled Ned Winsett . 
Well , I didn't know Countesses were so neighbourly . 
They would be , if you'd let them . 
H'm been in bigger places , I suppose , the other commented . 
Well , here's my corner . 
He slouched off across Broadway , and Archer stood looking after him and musing on his last words . 
Archer had known that Winsett had a wife and child , but he had never seen them . 
The two men always met at the Century , or at some haunt of journalists and theatrical people , such as the restaurant where Winsett had proposed to go for a bock . 
Winsett was not a journalist by choice . 
he was inexhaustibly entertaining but beneath his fun lurked the sterile bitterness of the still young man who has tried and given up . 
The fact is , life isn't much a fit for either of us , Winsett had once said . 
I'm down and out nothing to be done about it . 
I've got only one ware to produce , and there's no market for it here , and won't be in my time . 
But you're free and you're well off . 
Why don't you get into touch ? There's only one way to do it to go into politics . 
Archer threw his head back and laughed . 
There one saw at a flash the unbridgeable difference between men like Winsett and the others Archer's kind . 
Every one in polite circles knew that , in America , a gentleman couldn't go into politics . 
But , since he could hardly put it in that way to Winsett , he answered evasively Look at the career of the honest man in American politics ! They don't want us . 
Who's they' ? Why don't you all get together and be they' yourselves ? Archer's laugh lingered on his lips in a slightly condescending smile . 
It was useless to prolong the discussion everybody knew the melancholy fate of the few gentlemen who had risked their clean linen in municipal or state politics in New York . 
But you're in a pitiful little minority you've got no centre , no competition , no audience . 
You're like the pictures on the walls of a deserted house The Portrait of a Gentleman . 
You'll never amount to anything , any of you , till you roll up your sleeves and get right down into the muck . 
God ! If I could emigrate . 
Archer mentally shrugged his shoulders and turned the conversation back to books , where Winsett , if uncertain , was always interesting . 
Emigrate ! As if a gentleman could abandon his own country ! One could no more do that than one could roll up one's sleeves and go down into the muck . 
A gentleman simply stayed at home and abstained . 
The next morning Archer scoured the town in vain for more yellow roses . 
Why should he not be , at that moment , on the sands of St . 
Augustine with May Welland ? No one was deceived by his pretense of professional activity . 
It made Archer shiver to think that it might be spreading over him too . 
This unexpected silence mortified him beyond reason , and though the next morning he saw a glorious cluster of yellow roses behind a florist's window pane , he left it there . 
It was only on the third morning that he received a line by post from the Countess Olenska . 
To his surprise it was dated from Skuytercliff , whither the van der Luydens had promptly retreated after putting the Duke on board his steamer . 
, the day after I saw you at the play , and these kind friends have taken me in . 
I wanted to be quiet , and think things over . 
You were right in telling me how kind they were I feel myself so safe here . 
I wish that you were with us . 
She ended with a conventional Yours sincerely , and without any allusion to the date of her return . 
The tone of the note surprised the young man . 
Women always exaggerated and moreover she was not wholly at her ease in English , which she often spoke as if she were translating from the French . 
It amused him to think of the van der Luydens' having carried her off to Skuytercliff on a second visit , and this time for an indefinite period . 
The doors of Skuytercliff were rarely and grudgingly opened to visitors , and a chilly week end was the most ever offered to the few thus privileged . 
He had just received a box of new books from his London book seller , and had preferred the prospect of a quiet Sunday at home with his spoils . 
But he now went into the club writing room , wrote a hurried telegram , and told the servant to send it immediately . 
He knew that Mrs. Reggie didn't object to her visitors' suddenly changing their minds , and that there was always a room to spare in her elastic house . 
Newland Archer arrived at the Chiverses' on Friday evening , and on Saturday went conscientiously through all the rites appertaining to a week end at Highbank . 
But on Sunday after luncheon he borrowed a cutter , and drove over to Skuytercliff . 
People had always been told that the house at Skuytercliff was an Italian villa . 
Those who had never been to Italy believed it so did some who had . 
The house had been built by Mr. van der Luyden in his youth , on his return from the grand tour , and in anticipation of his approaching marriage with Miss Louisa Dagonet . 
It was a large square wooden structure , with tongued and grooved walls painted pale green and white , a Corinthian portico , and fluted pilasters between the windows . 
Mr. van der Luyden , the butler continued , is in , sir but my impression is that he is either finishing his nap or else reading yesterday's Evening Post . 
A groom took the cutter to the stables , and Archer struck through the park to the high road . 
Presently , however , coming down a foot path that crossed the highway , he caught sight of a slight figure in a red cloak , with a big dog running ahead . 
He hurried forward , and Madame Olenska stopped short with a smile of welcome . 
Ah , you've come ! she said , and drew her hand from her muff . 
Her face clouded over , but she answered Ah , well you will see , presently . 
And what does it matter , now you're here to protect me ? The blood rose to his temples and he caught a fold of her cloak . 
Ellen what is it ? You must tell me . 
She looked up at him and smiled . 
I knew you'd come ! That shows you wanted me to , he returned , with a disproportionate joy in their nonsense . 
The white glitter of the trees filled the air with its own mysterious brightness , and as they walked on over the snow the ground seemed to sing under their feet . 
Where did you come from ? Madame Olenska asked . 
He told her , and added It was because I got your note . 
After a pause she said , with a just perceptible chill in her voice May asked you to take care of me . 
I didn't need any asking . 
He lowered his voice to ask What sort of a need ? Ah , don't ask me ! I don't speak your language , she retorted petulantly . 
The answer smote him like a blow , and he stood still in the path , looking down at her . 
Does anything ever happen in heaven ? He was silent , and they walked on a few yards without exchanging a word . 
I always feel as if I were in the convent again or on the stage , before a dreadfully polite audience that never applauds . 
Ah , you don't like us ! Archer exclaimed . 
They were walking past the house of the old Patroon , with its squat walls and small square windows compactly grouped about a central chimney . 
The shutters stood wide , and through one of the newly washed windows Archer caught the light of a fire . 
Why the house is open ! he said . 
No only for today , at least . 
She ran up the steps and tried the door . 
It's still unlocked what luck ! Come in and we can have a quiet talk . 
Mrs. van der Luyden has driven over to see her old aunts at Rhinebeck and we shan't be missed at the house for another hour . 
He followed her into the narrow passage . 
His spirits , which had dropped at her last words , rose with an irrational leap . 
The homely little house stood there , its panels and brasses shining in the firelight , as if magically created to receive them . 
A big bed of embers still gleamed in the kitchen chimney , under an iron pot hung from an ancient crane . 
Rush bottomed arm chairs faced each other across the tiled hearth , and rows of Delft plates stood on shelves against the walls . 
Archer stooped over and threw a log upon the embers . 
Madame Olenska , dropping her cloak , sat down in one of the chairs . 
Archer leaned against the chimney and looked at her . 
You're laughing now but when you wrote me you were unhappy , he said . 
But I can't feel unhappy when you're here . 
I sha'n't be here long , he rejoined , his lips stiffening with the effort to say just so much and no more . 
But I'm improvident I live in the moment when I'm happy . 
But it was as if she too had shifted her place , and he still saw her , between himself and the trees , drooping over the fire with her indolent smile . 
Archer's heart was beating insubordinately . 
For a long moment she was silent and in that moment Archer imagined her , almost heard her , stealing up behind him to throw her light arms about his neck . 
The man was Julius Beaufort . 
Ah ! Archer cried , bursting into a laugh . 
Madame Olenska had sprung up and moved to his side , slipping her hand into his but after a glance through the window her face paled and she shrank back . 
So that was it ? Archer said derisively . 
I didn't know he was here , Madame Olenska murmured . 
Her hand still clung to Archer's but he drew away from her , and walking out into the passage threw open the door of the house . 
Hallo , Beaufort this way ! Madame Olenska was expecting you , he said . 
During his journey back to New York the next morning , Archer relived with a fatiguing vividness his last moments at Skuytercliff . 
Beaufort , though clearly annoyed at finding him with Madame Olenska , had , as usual , carried off the situation high handedly . 
His way of ignoring people whose presence inconvenienced him actually gave them , if they were sensitive to it , a feeling of invisibility , of nonexistence . 
Beaufort had entered the little house with his usual easy assurance but he could not smile away the vertical line between his eyes . 
Mrs. van der Luyden had not yet returned and Archer took his leave and walked off to fetch the cutter , while Beaufort followed the Countess Olenska indoors . 
Beaufort knew all this , and must have foreseen it and his taking the long journey for so small a reward gave the measure of his impatience . 
He was undeniably in pursuit of the Countess Olenska and Beaufort had only one object in view in his pursuit of pretty women . 
His dull and childless home had long since palled on him and in addition to more permanent consolations he was always in quest of amorous adventures in his own set . 
Archer did not really believe this . 
She might believe herself wholly in revolt against it but what had charmed her in it would still charm her , even though it were against her will . 
Thus , with a painful impartiality , did the young man make out the case for Beaufort , and for Beaufort's victim . 
A longing to enlighten her was strong in him and there were moments when he imagined that all she asked was to be enlightened . 
That evening he unpacked his books from London . 
Suddenly , among them , he lit on a small volume of verse which he had ordered because the name had attracted him The House of Life . 
The next two or three days dragged by heavily . 
The taste of the usual was like cinders in his mouth , and there were moments when he felt as if he were being buried alive under his future . 
He heard nothing of the Countess Olenska , or of the perfect little house , and though he met Beaufort at the club they merely nodded at each other across the whist tables . 
It was not till the fourth evening that he found a note awaiting him on his return home . 
Come late tomorrow I must explain to you . 
These were the only words it contained . 
The young man , who was dining out , thrust the note into his pocket , smiling a little at the Frenchness of the to you . 
There were several ways of answering it , and he gave considerable thought to each one during the watches of an agitated night . 
That on which , when morning came , he finally decided was to pitch some clothes into a portmanteau and jump on board a boat that was leaving that very afternoon for St . 
When Archer walked down the sandy main street of St . 
She had just been for a row on the river , and the sun that netted the little waves with gold seemed to have caught her in its meshes . 
Across the warm brown of her cheek her blown hair glittered like silver wire and her eyes too looked lighter , almost pale in their youthful limpidity . 
As she walked beside Archer with her long swinging gait her face wore the vacant serenity of a young marble athlete . 
To Archer's strained nerves the vision was as soothing as the sight of the blue sky and the lazy river . 
They sat down on a bench under the orange trees and he put his arm about her and kissed her . 
What is it ? he asked , smiling and she looked at him with surprise , and answered Nothing . 
A slight embarrassment fell on them , and her hand slipped out of his . 
Tell me what you do all day , he said , crossing his arms under his tilted back head , and pushing his hat forward to screen the sun dazzle . 
A few pleasant people from Philadelphia and Baltimore were picknicking at the inn , and the Selfridge Merrys had come down for three weeks because Kate Merry had had bronchitis . 
I tell my wife and May that I want to teach them how to rough it . 
You can't be too careful , especially toward spring , he said , heaping his plate with straw coloured griddle cakes and drowning them in golden syrup . 
If I'd only been as prudent at your age May would have been dancing at the Assemblies now , instead of spending her winters in a wilderness with an old invalid . 
Oh , but I love it here , Papa you know I do . 
If only Newland could stay I should like it a thousand times better than New York . 
I'm afraid Ellen's ideas are not at all like ours . 
No wonder she is completely Europeanised . 
But European society is not given to divorce Countess Olenska thought she would be conforming to American ideas in asking for her freedom . 
It was the first time that the young man had pronounced her name since he had left Skuytercliff , and he felt the colour rise to his cheek . 
That is just like the extraordinary things that foreigners invent about us . 
They think we dine at two o'clock and countenance divorce ! That is why it seems to me so foolish to entertain them when they come to New York . 
They accept our hospitality , and then they go home and repeat the same stupid stories . 
Archer made no comment on this , and Mrs. Welland continued But we do most thoroughly appreciate your persuading Ellen to give up the idea . 
She has an unbounded admiration for you . 
Poor Ellen she was always a wayward child . 
I wonder what her fate will be ? What we've all contrived to make it , he felt like answering . 
if you'd all of you rather she should be Beaufort's mistress than some decent fellow's wife you've certainly gone the right way about it . 
He wondered what Mrs. Welland would have said if he had uttered the words instead of merely thinking them . 
He could picture the sudden decomposure of her firm placid features , to which a lifelong mastery over trifles had given an air of factitious authority . 
Traces still lingered on them of a fresh beauty like her daughter's and he asked himself if May's face was doomed to thicken into the same middle aged image of invincible innocence . 
I don't know any of the details I only ask not to , as I told poor Ellen when she tried to talk to me about it . 
Having an invalid to care for , I have to keep my mind bright and happy . 
But Mr. Welland was terribly upset he had a slight temperature every morning while we were waiting to hear what had been decided . 
It was the horror of his girl's learning that such things were possible but of course , dear Newland , you felt that too . 
We all knew that you were thinking of May . 
I'm always thinking of May , the young man rejoined , rising to cut short the conversation . 
He had meant to seize the opportunity of his private talk with Mrs. Welland to urge her to advance the date of his marriage . 
But he could think of no arguments that would move her , and with a sense of relief he saw Mr. Welland and May driving up to the door . 
His only hope was to plead again with May , and on the day before his departure he walked with her to the ruinous garden of the Spanish Mission . 
We might be seeing it all this spring even the Easter ceremonies at Seville , he urged , exaggerating his demands in the hope of a larger concession . 
Easter in Seville ? And it will be Lent next week ! she laughed . 
Why shouldn't we be married in Lent ? he rejoined but she looked so shocked that he saw his mistake . 
Of course I didn't mean that , dearest but soon after Easter so that we could sail at the end of April . 
I know I could arrange it at the office . 
She smiled dreamily upon the possibility but he perceived that to dream of it sufficed her . 
It was like hearing him read aloud out of his poetry books the beautiful things that could not possibly happen in real life . 
Oh , do go on , Newland I do love your descriptions . 
But why should they be only descriptions ? Why shouldn't we make them real ? We shall , dearest , of course next year . 
Her voice lingered over it . 
Don't you want them to be real sooner ? Can't I persuade you to break away now ? She bowed her head , vanishing from him under her conniving hat brim . 
But suddenly her look changed and deepened inscrutably . 
I'm not sure if I DO understand , she said . 
Is it is it because you're not certain of continuing to care for me ? Archer sprang up from his seat . 
My God perhaps I don't know , he broke out angrily . 
May Welland rose also as they faced each other she seemed to grow in womanly stature and dignity . 
She seemed to catch the uncertainty of his voice , for she went on in a deepening tone Let us talk frankly , Newland . 
Sometimes I've felt a difference in you especially since our engagement has been announced . 
Dear what madness ! he recovered himself to exclaim . 
She met his protest with a faint smile . 
If it is , it won't hurt us to talk about it . 
He lowered his head , staring at the black leaf pattern on the sunny path at their feet . 
Yes , she said at length . 
You might want once for all to settle the question it's one way . 
Her quiet lucidity startled him , but did not mislead him into thinking her insensible . 
Under her hat brim he saw the pallor of her profile , and a slight tremor of the nostril above her resolutely steadied lips . 
Well ? he questioned , sitting down on the bench , and looking up at her with a frown that he tried to make playful . 
She dropped back into her seat and went on You mustn't think that a girl knows as little as her parents imagine . 
One hears and one notices one has one's feelings and ideas . 
Her voice had sunk almost to a whisper , and she sat clasping and unclasping her hands about the handle of her sunshade . 
The young man laid his upon them with a gentle pressure his heart dilated with an inexpressible relief . 
My dear child was THAT it ? If you only knew the truth ! She raised her head quickly . 
Then there is a truth I don't know ? He kept his hand over hers . 
I meant , the truth about the old story you speak of . 
But that's what I want to know , Newland what I ought to know . 
I couldn't have my happiness made out of a wrong an unfairness to somebody else . 
And I want to believe that it would be the same with you . 
What sort of a life could we build on such foundations ? Her face had taken on a look of such tragic courage that he felt like bowing himself down at her feet . 
I've wanted to say this for a long time , she went on . 
And if you feel yourself in any way pledged . 
pledged to the person we've spoken of . 
and if there is any way . 
any way in which you can fulfill your pledge . 
even by her getting a divorce . 
But he was still dizzy with the glimpse of the precipice they had skirted , and full of a new awe at the mystery of young girlhood . 
For a moment he could not speak then he said There is no pledge no obligation whatever of the kind you think . 
Such cases don't always present themselves quite as simply as . 
I love your generosity , because I feel as you do about those things . 
I feel that each case must be judged individually , on its own merits . 
May seemed to be aware of his disappointment , but without knowing how to alleviate it and they stood up and walked silently home . 
Your cousin the Countess called on mother while you were away , Janey Archer announced to her brother on the evening of his return . 
The young man , who was dining alone with his mother and sister , glanced up in surprise and saw Mrs. Archer's gaze demurely bent on her plate . 
She had on a black velvet polonaise with jet buttons , and a tiny green monkey muff I never saw her so stylishly dressed , Janey continued . 
She came alone , early on Sunday afternoon luckily the fire was lit in the drawing room . 
She had one of those new card cases . 
She said she wanted to know us because you'd been so good to her . 
Madame Olenska always takes that tone about her friends . 
She's very happy at being among her own people again . 
Yes , so she told us , said Mrs. Archer . 
I must say she seems thankful to be here . 
I hope you liked her , mother . 
Mrs. Archer drew her lips together . 
She certainly lays herself out to please , even when she is calling on an old lady . 
Mother doesn't think her simple , Janey interjected , her eyes screwed upon her brother's face . 
It's just my old fashioned feeling dear May is my ideal , said Mrs. Archer . 
Ah , said her son , they're not alike . 
Augustine charged with many messages for old Mrs. Mingott and a day or two after his return to town he called on her . 
Augustine simply because he wanted to see May , she gave an adipose chuckle and patted his knee with her puff ball hand . 
Wouldn't she indeed ? And what was that ? I wanted to get her to promise that we should be married in April . 
What's the use of our wasting another year ? Mrs. Manson Mingott screwed up her little mouth into a grimace of mimic prudery and twinkled at him through malicious lids . 
Ask Mamma , I suppose the usual story . 
Ah , these Mingotts all alike ! Born in a rut , and you can't root 'em out of it . 
No , no not one of them wants to be different they're as scared of it as the small pox . 
Ah , my dear Mr. Archer , I thank my stars I'm nothing but a vulgar Spicer but there's not one of my own children that takes after me but my little Ellen . 
For one thing , she wasn't there to be married . 
No to be sure more's the pity . 
And now it's too late her life is finished . 
She spoke with the cold blooded complacency of the aged throwing earth into the grave of young hopes . 
The young man's heart grew chill , and he said hurriedly Can't I persuade you to use your influence with the Wellands , Mrs. Mingott ? I wasn't made for long engagements . 
Old Catherine beamed on him approvingly . 
No I can see that . 
You've got a quick eye . 
When you were a little boy I've no doubt you liked to be helped first . 
She threw back her head with a laugh that made her chins ripple like little waves . 
Ah , here's my Ellen now ! she exclaimed , as the portieres parted behind her . 
Madame Olenska came forward with a smile . 
Her face looked vivid and happy , and she held out her hand gaily to Archer while she stooped to her grandmother's kiss . 
I was just saying to him , my dear Now , why didn't you marry my little Ellen ? Madame Olenska looked at Archer , still smiling . 
And what did he answer ? Oh , my darling , I leave you to find that out ! He's been down to Florida to see his sweetheart . 
She still looked at him . 
I went to see your mother , to ask where you'd gone . 
I sent a note that you never answered , and I was afraid you were ill . 
He muttered something about leaving unexpectedly , in a great hurry , and having intended to write to her from St . 
And of course once you were there you never thought of me again ! She continued to beam on him with a gaiety that might have been a studied assumption of indifference . 
If she still needs me , she's determined not to let me see it , he thought , stung by her manner . 
He wanted to thank her for having been to see his mother , but under the ancestress's malicious eye he felt himself tongue tied and constrained . 
It's only my poor Ellen that has kept any of their wicked blood the rest of them are all model Mingotts , cried the old lady scornfully . 
Archer was aware that Madame Olenska , who had seated herself at her grandmother's side , was still thoughtfully scrutinising him . 
The gaiety had faded from her eyes , and she said with great gentleness Surely , Granny , we can persuade them between us to do as he wishes . 
Archer rose to go , and as his hand met Madame Olenska's he felt that she was waiting for him to make some allusion to her unanswered letter . 
When can I see you ? he asked , as she walked with him to the door of the room . 
Whenever you like but it must be soon if you want to see the little house again . 
I am moving next week . 
A pang shot through him at the memory of his lamplit hours in the low studded drawing room . 
Few as they had been , they were thick with memories . 
Tomorrow evening ? She nodded . 
The next day was a Sunday , and if she were going out on a Sunday evening it could , of course , be only to Mrs. Lemuel Struthers's . 
He reflected , however , that Mrs. Struthers's Sunday evenings were not like a ball , and that her guests , as if to minimise their delinquency , usually went early . 
The one thing he had not counted on , in entering Madame Olenska's hall , was to find hats and overcoats there . 
The overcoats were in fact the very strangest he had ever seen under a polite roof and it took but a glance to assure himself that neither of them belonged to Julius Beaufort . 
One was a shaggy yellow ulster of reach me down cut , the other a very old and rusty cloak with a cape something like what the French called a Macfarlane . 
On it lay a ragged grey scarf and an odd felt hat of semiclerical shape . 
Archer raised his eyebrows enquiringly at Nastasia , who raised hers in return with a fatalistic Gia ! as she threw open the drawing room door . 
The young man saw at once that his hostess was not in the room then , with surprise , he discovered another lady standing by the fire . 
Beside her , in a cloud of cigar smoke , stood the owners of the two overcoats , both in morning clothes that they had evidently not taken off since morning . 
What they must have cost at this season though of course it's the sentiment one cares about ! the lady was saying in a sighing staccato as Archer came in . 
The three turned with surprise at his appearance , and the lady , advancing , held out her hand . 
Dear Mr. Archer almost my cousin Newland ! she said . 
I am the Marchioness Manson . 
Archer bowed , and she continued My Ellen has taken me in for a few days . 
Agathon Carver , founder of the Valley of Love Community ? Dr . 
Oh , yes I reached him some time ago but not by that route , Winsett said with his dry smile . 
The Marchioness shook her head reprovingly . 
How do you know , Mr. Winsett ? The spirit bloweth where it listeth . 
List oh , list ! interjected Dr . 
Carver in a stentorian murmur . 
But do sit down , Mr. Archer . 
We four have been having a delightful little dinner together , and my child has gone up to dress . 
She expects you she will be down in a moment . 
We were just admiring these marvellous flowers , which will surprise her when she reappears . 
Winsett remained on his feet . 
I'm afraid I must be off . 
Please tell Madame Olenska that we shall all feel lost when she abandons our street . 
This house has been an oasis . 
Ah , but she won't abandon YOU . 
Poetry and art are the breath of life to her . 
A caustic spirit un peu sauvage . 
Carver , you DO think him witty ? I never think of wit , said Dr . 
Carver looked slightly disappointed at this conclusion , but , having compared his ponderous gold time piece with Madame Olenska's little travelling clock , he reluctantly gathered up his mighty limbs for departure . 
Carver looked thoughtfully at Archer . 
But I fear my Ellen counts on Mr. Archer herself . 
Carver , is unfortunate but here is my card . 
He handed it to Archer , who read on it , in Gothic characters Agathon Carter The Valley of Love Kittasquattamy , N. Y. Dr . 
Carver bowed himself out , and Mrs. Manson , with a sigh that might have been either of regret or relief , again waved Archer to a seat . 
Ellen will be down in a moment and before she comes , I am so glad of this quiet moment with you . 
Your wise advice your courageous firmness thank heaven it was not too late ! The young man listened with considerable embarrassment . 
Good God ! Archer exclaimed , springing up . 
You are horrified ? Yes , of course I understand . 
I don't defend poor Stanislas , though he has always called me his best friend . 
He does not defend himself he casts himself at her feet in my person . 
She tapped her emaciated bosom . 
I have his letter here . 
A letter ? Has Madame Olenska seen it ? Archer stammered , his brain whirling with the shock of the announcement . 
The Marchioness Manson shook her head softly . 
Time time I must have time . 
She tells me she is not thought handsome in New York good heavens ! Her portrait has been painted nine times the greatest artists in Europe have begged for the privilege . 
She knows nothing yet of all this ? he asked abruptly . 
Mrs. Manson laid a purple finger on her lips . 
Nothing directly but does she suspect ? Who can tell ? The truth is , Mr. Archer , I have been waiting to see you . 
That she ought to go back ? I would rather see her dead ! cried the young man violently . 
Ah , the Marchioness murmured , without visible resentment . 
For a while she sat in her arm chair , opening and shutting the absurd ivory fan between her mittened fingers but suddenly she lifted her head and listened . 
and my niece is still a wife . 
What are you two plotting together , aunt Medora ? Madame Olenska cried as she came into the room . 
She was dressed as if for a ball . 
We were saying , my dear , that here was something beautiful to surprise you with , Mrs. Manson rejoined , rising to her feet and pointing archly to the flowers . 
Madame Olenska stopped short and looked at the bouquet . 
Her colour did not change , but a sort of white radiance of anger ran over her like summer lightning . 
But some people are always ridiculous . 
Tell the boy to carry them to the house three doors away , the house of Mr. Winsett , the dark gentleman who dined here . 
His wife is ill they may give her pleasure . 
The boy is out , you say ? Then , my dear one , run yourself here , put my cloak over you and fly . 
Yes I gave you time enough my hair wouldn't go , Madame Olenska said , raising her hand to the heaped up curls of her chignon . 
But that reminds me I see Dr . 
Carver is gone , and you'll be late at the Blenkers' . 
I knew she'd been talking about me . 
Well ? She said you were used to all kinds of things splendours and amusements and excitements that we could never hope to give you here . 
Madame Olenska smiled faintly into the circle of smoke about her lips . 
It has made up to her for so many things ! Archer hesitated again , and again took his risk . 
Is your aunt's romanticism always consistent with accuracy ? You mean does she speak the truth ? Her niece considered . 
Well , I'll tell you in almost everything she says , there's something true and something untrue . 
But why do you ask ? What has she been telling you ? He looked away into the fire , and then back at her shining presence . 
His heart tightened with the thought that this was their last evening by that fireside , and that in a moment the carriage would come to carry her away . 
She says she pretends that Count Olenski has asked her to persuade you to go back to him . 
Madame Olenska made no answer . 
She sat motionless , holding her cigarette in her half lifted hand . 
The expression of her face had not changed and Archer remembered that he had before noticed her apparent incapacity for surprise . 
You knew , then ? he broke out . 
She was silent for so long that the ash dropped from her cigarette . 
She brushed it to the floor . 
She has hinted about a letter poor darling ! Medora's hints Is it at your husband's request that she has arrived here suddenly ? Madame Olenska seemed to consider this question also . 
There again one can't tell . 
She told me she had had a spiritual summons , whatever that is , from Dr . 
I'm afraid she's going to marry Dr . 
poor Medora , there's always some one she wants to marry . 
But perhaps the people in Cuba just got tired of her ! I think she was with them as a sort of paid companion . 
Really , I don't know why she came . 
But you do believe she has a letter from your husband ? Again Madame Olenska brooded silently then she said After all , it was to be expected . 
The young man rose and went to lean against the fireplace . 
You know that your aunt believes you will go back ? Madame Olenska raised her head quickly . 
A deep blush rose to her face and spread over her neck and shoulders . 
She blushed seldom and painfully , as if it hurt her like a burn . 
Many cruel things have been believed of me , she said . 
Oh , Ellen forgive me I'm a fool and a brute ! She smiled a little . 
You are horribly nervous you have your own troubles . 
I know you think the Wellands are unreasonable about your marriage , and of course I agree with you . 
In Europe people don't understand our long American engagements I suppose they are not as calm as we are . 
She pronounced the we with a faint emphasis that gave it an ironic sound . 
Archer felt the irony but did not dare to take it up . 
But the sense of the waning hour made him desperate he could not bear the thought that a barrier of words should drop between them again . 
Yes , he said abruptly I went south to ask May to marry me after Easter . 
There's no reason why we shouldn't be married then . 
And May adores you and yet you couldn't convince her ? I thought her too intelligent to be the slave of such absurd superstitions . 
She IS too intelligent she's not their slave . 
Madame Olenska looked at him . 
Well , then I don't understand . 
Archer reddened , and hurried on with a rush . 
We had a frank talk almost the first . 
She thinks my impatience a bad sign . 
Merciful heavens a bad sign ? She thinks it means that I can't trust myself to go on caring for her . 
She thinks , in short , I want to marry her at once to get away from some one that I care for more . 
Madame Olenska examined this curiously . 
But if she thinks that why isn't she in a hurry too ? Because she's not like that she's so much nobler . 
She insists all the more on the long engagement , to give me time Time to give her up for the other woman ? If I want to . 
Madame Olenska leaned toward the fire and gazed into it with fixed eyes . 
Down the quiet street Archer heard the approaching trot of her horses . 
That IS noble , she said , with a slight break in her voice . 
Ridiculous ? Because you don't care for any one else ? Because I don't mean to marry any one else . 
There was another long interval . 
She half rose and looked about her with absent eyes . 
Her fan and gloves lay on the sofa beside her and she picked them up mechanically . 
Yes I suppose I must be going . 
You're going to Mrs. Struthers's ? Yes . 
She smiled and added I must go where I am invited , or I should be too lonely . 
Why not come with me ? Archer felt that at any cost he must keep her beside him , must make her give him the rest of her evening . 
May guessed the truth , he said . 
There is another woman but not the one she thinks . 
Ellen Olenska made no answer , and did not move . 
After a moment he sat down beside her , and , taking her hand , softly unclasped it , so that the gloves and fan fell on the sofa between them . 
She started up , and freeing herself from him moved away to the other side of the hearth . 
Ah , don't make love to me ! Too many people have done that , she said , frowning . 
Archer , changing colour , stood up also it was the bitterest rebuke she could have given him . 
I have never made love to you , he said , and I never shall . 
But you are the woman I would have married if it had been possible for either of us . 
Possible for either of us ? She looked at him with unfeigned astonishment . 
And you say that when it's you who've made it impossible ? He stared at her , groping in a blackness through which a single arrow of light tore its blinding way . 
I'VE made it impossible ? You , you , YOU ! she cried , her lip trembling like a child's on the verge of tears . 
Good God , he groaned . 
When I thought You thought ? Ah , don't ask me what I thought ! Still looking at her , he saw the same burning flush creep up her neck to her face . 
She sat upright , facing him with a rigid dignity . 
Well , then there were things in that letter you asked me to read My husband's letter ? Yes . 
I had nothing to fear from that letter absolutely nothing ! All I feared was to bring notoriety , scandal , on the family on you and May . 
Good God , he groaned again , bowing his face in his hands . 
The silence that followed lay on them with the weight of things final and irrevocable . 
It seemed to Archer to be crushing him down like his own grave stone in all the wide future he saw nothing that would ever lift that load from his heart . 
He did not move from his place , or raise his head from his hands his hidden eyeballs went on staring into utter darkness . 
At least I loved you he brought out . 
On the other side of the hearth , from the sofa corner where he supposed that she still crouched , he heard a faint stifled crying like a child's . 
He started up and came to her side . 
Ellen ! What madness ! Why are you crying ? Nothing's done that can't be undone . 
I'm still free , and you're going to be . 
He had her in his arms , her face like a wet flower at his lips , and all their vain terrors shrivelling up like ghosts at sunrise . 
She gave him back all his kiss , but after a moment he felt her stiffening in his arms , and she put him aside and stood up . 
Ah , my poor Newland I suppose this had to be . 
But it doesn't in the least alter things , she said , looking down at him in her turn from the hearth . 
It alters the whole of life for me . 
No , no it mustn't , it can't . 
You're engaged to May Welland and I'm married . 
He stood up too , flushed and resolute . 
Nonsense ! It's too late for that sort of thing . 
We've no right to lie to other people or to ourselves . 
One of the locks of her chignon had become loosened and hung on her neck she looked haggard and almost old . 
I don't see you , she said at length , putting that question to May . 
Do you ? He gave a reckless shrug . 
It's too late to do anything else . 
You say that because it's the easiest thing to say at this moment not because it's true . 
In reality it's too late to do anything but what we'd both decided on . 
Ah , I don't understand you ! She forced a pitiful smile that pinched her face instead of smoothing it . 
You don't understand because you haven't yet guessed how you've changed things for me oh , from the first long before I knew all you'd done . 
All I'd done ? Yes . 
I was perfectly unconscious at first that people here were shy of me that they thought I was a dreadful sort of person . 
It seems they had even refused to meet me at dinner . 
Just imagine , she said , how stupid and unobservant I was ! I knew nothing of all this till Granny blurted it out one day . 
New York simply meant peace and freedom to me it was coming home . 
And I was so happy at being among my own people that every one I met seemed kind and good , and glad to see me . 
The very good people didn't convince me I felt they'd never been tempted . 
That was what I'd never known before and it's better than anything I've known . 
She spoke in a low even voice , without tears or visible agitation and each word , as it dropped from her , fell into his breast like burning lead . 
He sat bowed over , his head between his hands , staring at the hearthrug , and at the tip of the satin shoe that showed under her dress . 
Suddenly he knelt down and kissed the shoe . 
She bent over him , laying her hands on his shoulders , and looking at him with eyes so deep that he remained motionless under her gaze . 
Ah , don't let us undo what you've done ! she cried . 
I can't go back now to that other way of thinking . 
I can't love you unless I give you up . 
His arms were yearning up to her but she drew away , and they remained facing each other , divided by the distance that her words had created . 
Then , abruptly , his anger overflowed . 
He's waiting for you now at Mrs. Struthers's why don't you go to him ? Archer sneered . 
She turned to ring the bell . 
I shall not go out this evening tell the carriage to go and fetch the Signora Marchesa , she said when the maid came . 
After the door had closed again Archer continued to look at her with bitter eyes . 
Why this sacrifice ? Since you tell me that you're lonely I've no right to keep you from your friends . 
She smiled a little under her wet lashes . 
I shan't be lonely now . 
I WAS lonely I WAS afraid . 
But the emptiness and the darkness are gone when I turn back into myself now I'm like a child going at night into a room where there's always a light . 
May is ready to give me up . 
He turned away with a sense of utter weariness . 
At length he began to plead again . 
If we do this now it will be worse afterward worse for every one No no no ! she almost screamed , as if he frightened her . 
At that moment the bell sent a long tinkle through the house . 
They had heard no carriage stopping at the door , and they stood motionless , looking at each other with startled eyes . 
Outside , Nastasia's step crossed the hall , the outer door opened , and a moment later she came in carrying a telegram which she handed to the Countess Olenska . 
The lady was very happy at the flowers , Nastasia said , smoothing her apron . 
She thought it was her signor marito who had sent them , and she cried a little and said it was a folly . 
Her mistress smiled and took the yellow envelope . 
She tore it open and carried it to the lamp then , when the door had closed again , she handed the telegram to Archer . 
It was dated from St . 
Augustine , and addressed to the Countess Olenska . 
In it he read Granny's telegram successful . 
Papa and Mamma agree marriage after Easter . 
Am too happy for words and love you dearly . 
Half an hour later , when Archer unlocked his own front door , he found a similar envelope on the hall table on top of his pile of notes and letters . 
Archer crumpled up the yellow sheet as if the gesture could annihilate the news it contained . 
A light was shining through the door of the little hall room which served Janey as a dressing room and boudoir , and her brother rapped impatiently on the panel . 
The door opened , and his sister stood before him in her immemorial purple flannel dressing gown , with her hair on pins . 
Her face looked pale and apprehensive . 
He took no notice of her question . 
Look here what day is Easter this year ? She looked shocked at such unchristian ignorance . 
Easter ? Newland ! Why , of course , the first week in April . 
Why ? The first week ? He turned again to the pages of his diary , calculating rapidly under his breath . 
The first week , did you say ? He threw back his head with a long laugh . 
For mercy's sake what's the matter ? Nothing's the matter , except that I'm going to be married in a month . 
Janey fell upon his neck and pressed him to her purple flannel breast . 
Oh Newland , how wonderful ! I'm so glad ! But , dearest , why do you keep on laughing ? Do hush , or you'll wake Mamma . 
The day was fresh , with a lively spring wind full of dust . 
Newland Archer , at a signal from the sexton , had come out of the vestry and placed himself with his best man on the chancel step of Grace Church . 
So far he was reasonably sure of having fulfilled all his obligations . 
Got the ring all right ? whispered young van der Luyden Newland , who was inexperienced in the duties of a best man , and awed by the weight of his responsibility . 
Too bad the breakfast is at old Catherine's , the bridegroom could fancy Reggie Chivers saying . 
But I'm told that Lovell Mingott insisted on its being cooked by his own chef , so it ought to be good if one can only get at it . 
And he could imagine Sillerton Jackson adding with authority My dear fellow , haven't you heard ? It's to be served at small tables , in the new English fashion . 
On the hither side of the white ribbon dividing off the seats reserved for the families he saw Beaufort , tall and redfaced , scrutinising the women with his arrogant stare . 
Archer wondered how many flaws Lefferts's keen eyes would discover in the ritual of his divinity then he suddenly recalled that he too had once thought such questions important . 
The things that had filled his days seemed now like a nursery parody of life , or like the wrangles of mediaeval schoolmen over metaphysical terms that nobody had ever understood . 
by Mrs. Welland's saying , with indignant tears I should as soon turn the reporters loose in my house . 
And all the while , I suppose , he thought , real people were living somewhere , and real things happening to them . 
THERE THEY COME ! breathed the best man excitedly but the bridegroom knew better . 
was taking a preliminary survey of the scene before marshalling his forces . 
with the Wellands' house in easy reach it was hard to have to make a special price with Brown to drive one to the other end of nowhere . 
He had taken it for granted that the Marchioness Manson was still in Washington , where she had gone some four weeks previously with her niece , Madame Olenska . 
It was generally understood that their abrupt departure was due to Madame Olenska's desire to remove her aunt from the baleful eloquence of Dr . 
Newland I say SHE'S HERE ! the best man whispered . 
Archer roused himself with a start . 
, and felt his heart beginning to resume its usual task . 
My God , he thought , HAVE I got the ring ? and once more he went through the bridegroom's convulsive gesture . 
Dearly beloved , we are gathered together here , the Rector began . 
Your arm I SAY , GIVE HER YOUR ARM ! young Newland nervously hissed and once more Archer became aware of having been adrift far off in the unknown . 
The footman , who had a still bigger white favour on his lapel , wrapped May's white cloak about her , and Archer jumped into the brougham at her side . 
She turned to him with a triumphant smile and their hands clasped under her veil . 
But you DID keep me waiting , you know ! I had time to think of every horror that might possibly happen . 
She surprised him by turning , in full Fifth Avenue , and flinging her arms about his neck . 
May was enchanted at the idea of going to the country , and childishly amused at the vain efforts of the eight bridesmaids to discover where their mysterious retreat was situated . 
At first Archer had fancied that this detachment was the disguise of an inward tremor but her clear eyes revealed only the most tranquil unawareness . 
She was alone for the first time with her husband but her husband was only the charming comrade of yesterday . 
It was wonderful that as he had learned in the Mission garden at St . 
Augustine such depths of feeling could coexist with such absence of imagination . 
May settled down to frank enjoyment of the subject . 
I was surprised , though weren't you ? that aunt Medora came after all . 
In the spring twilight the train stopped at the Rhinebeck station , and they walked along the platform to the waiting carriage . 
I'm extremely sorry , sir , said this emissary , that a little accident has occurred at the Miss du Lacs' a leak in the water tank . 
It happened yesterday , and Mr. van der Luyden , who heard of it this morning , sent a housemaid up by the early train to get the Patroon's house ready . 
had knocked on the door and asked if Mrs. Archer had a bottle of liniment . 
When the Archers left Botzen they had no idea of ever seeing Mrs. Carfry and Miss Harle again . 
Nothing , to Mrs. Archer's mind , would have been more undignified than to force one's self on the notice of a foreigner to whom one had happened to render an accidental service . 
And on the dock , when Newland and his wife sailed for England , Mrs. Archer's last word had been You must take May to see Mrs. Carfry . 
It's all very well for you , Newland you KNOW them . 
But I shall feel so shy among a lot of people I've never met . 
And what shall I wear ? Newland leaned back in his chair and smiled at her . 
She looked handsomer and more Diana like than ever . 
Wear , dearest ? I thought a trunkful of things had come from Paris last week . 
I meant to say that I shan't know WHICH to wear . 
I've never dined out in London and I don't want to be ridiculous . 
He tried to enter into her perplexity . 
Well , perhaps they wear new ball dresses at home but at any rate Mrs. Carfry and Miss Harle won't . 
They'll wear caps like my mother's and shawls very soft shawls . 
Yes but how will the other women be dressed ? Not as well as you , dear , he rejoined , wondering what had suddenly developed in her Janey's morbid interest in clothes . 
She pushed back her chair with a sigh . 
That's dear of you , Newland but it doesn't help me much . 
Oh , well said Archer , getting up . 
Look here the fog's lifting . 
If we made a dash for the National Gallery we might manage to catch a glimpse of the pictures . 
The Newland Archers were on their way home , after a three months' wedding tour which May , in writing to her girl friends , vaguely summarised as blissful . 
They had not gone to the Italian Lakes on reflection , Archer had not been able to picture his wife in that particular setting . 
was for mountaineering in July and swimming in August . 
But in reality travelling interested her even less than he had expected . 
she no longer concealed the eagerness with which she looked forward to sailing . 
Archer had reverted to all his old inherited ideas about marriage . 
when she would find strength to take it altogether back if she thought she were doing it for his own good . 
Whatever happened , he knew , she would always be loyal , gallant and unresentful and that pledged him to the practice of the same virtues . 
All this tended to draw him back into his old habits of mind . 
And when they had children the vacant corners in both their lives would be filled . 
All these things went through his mind during their long slow drive from Mayfair to South Kensington , where Mrs. Carfry and her sister lived . 
To introduce his wife into such a society was out of the question and in the course of his travels no other had shown any marked eagerness for his company . 
Not long after their arrival in London he had run across the Duke of St . 
It's their armour , he thought , their defence against the unknown , and their defiance of it . 
He had been right in expecting the party at Mrs. Carfry's to be a small one . 
In spite of their best efforts , however , the dinner was a languishing affair . 
But Archer and the tutor continued to sit over their wine , and suddenly Archer found himself talking as he had not done since his last symposium with Ned Winsett . 
It seemed impossible , Archer thought , that he should be long without one , so varied were his interests and so many his gifts . 
to which the play of his ideas gave an intense expressiveness but there was nothing frivolous or cheap in his animation . 
, and at length after other experiments and vicissitudes which he spared his listener into tutoring English youths in Switzerland . 
, and had often talked with Merimee in his mother's house . 
, and it was apparent that his literary ambitions had failed . 
There is a good deal of drudgery , of course but one preserves one's moral freedom , what we call in French one's quant a soi . 
And when one hears good talk one can join in it without compromising any opinions but one's own or one can listen , and answer it inwardly . 
Ah , good conversation there's nothing like it , is there ? The air of ideas is the only air worth breathing . 
And so I have never regretted giving up either diplomacy or journalism two different forms of the same self abdication . 
He fixed his vivid eyes on Archer as he lit another cigarette . 
Sometimes I feel I must make a plunge an immense plunge . 
Do you suppose , for instance , there would be any opening for me in America in New York ? Archer looked at him with startled eyes . 
A sudden flush rose under M. Riviere's sallow skin . 
During the homeward drive Archer pondered deeply on this episode . 
That young tutor is an interesting fellow we had some awfully good talk after dinner about books and things , he threw out tentatively in the hansom . 
May roused herself from one of the dreamy silences into which he had read so many meanings before six months of marriage had given him the key to them . 
The disappointment was not occasioned by the sentiment ordinarily defined as snobbishness , but by old New York's sense of what was due to it when it risked its dignity in foreign lands . 
If May's parents had entertained the Carfrys in Fifth Avenue they would have offered them something more substantial than a parson and a schoolmaster . 
But Archer was on edge , and took her up . 
Common common WHERE ? he queried and she returned with unusual readiness Why , I should say anywhere but in his school room . 
Those people are always awkward in society . 
But then , she added disarmingly , I suppose I shouldn't have known if he was clever . 
After all , her point of view had always been the same . 
It was that of all the people he had grown up among , and he had always regarded it as necessary but negligible . 
Until a few months ago he had never known a nice woman who looked at life differently and if a man married it must necessarily be among the nice . 
But I did rather want another talk with him . 
He's looking for a job in New York . 
Her surprise increased with her indifference he almost fancied that she suspected him of being tainted with foreignness . 
The small bright lawn stretched away smoothly to the big bright sea . 
two large targets had been placed against a background of shrubbery . 
On the other side of the lawn , facing the targets , was pitched a real tent , with benches and garden seats about it . 
Newland Archer , standing on the verandah of the house , looked curiously down upon this scene . 
On each side of the shiny painted steps was a large blue china flower pot on a bright yellow china stand . 
A spiky green plant filled each pot , and below the verandah ran a wide border of blue hydrangeas edged with more red geraniums . 
The Newport Archery Club always held its August meeting at the Beauforts' . 
Archer looked down with wonder at the familiar spectacle . 
It surprised him that life should be going on in the old way when his own reactions to it had so completely changed . 
It was Newport that had first brought home to him the extent of the change . 
But Newport represented the escape from duty into an atmosphere of unmitigated holiday making . 
, where a few hardy Bostonians and Philadelphians were camping in native cottages , and whence came reports of enchanting scenery and a wild , almost trapper like existence amid woods and waters . 
May herself could not understand his obscure reluctance to fall in with so reasonable and pleasant a way of spending the summer . 
It was not May's fault , poor dear . 
If , now and then , during their travels , they had fallen slightly out of step , harmony had been restored by their return to the conditions she was used to . 
He had always foreseen that she would not disappoint him and he had been right . 
He could not say that he had been mistaken in his choice , for she had fulfilled all that he had expected . 
As for the momentary madness which had fallen upon him on the eve of his marriage , he had trained himself to regard it as the last of his discarded experiments . 
He heard a murmur of skirts beside him , and the Marchioness Manson fluttered out of the drawing room window . 
My dear Newland , I had no idea that you and May had arrived ! You yourself came only yesterday , you say ? Ah , business business professional duties . 
Many husbands , I know , find it impossible to join their wives here except for the week end . 
She cocked her head on one side and languished at him through screwed up eyes . 
No , I am not staying here , but with the Blenkers , in their delicious solitude at Portsmouth . 
The Blenkers , dear original beings , have hired a primitive old farm house at Portsmouth where they gather about them representative people . 
She drooped slightly beneath her protecting brim , and added with a faint blush This week Dr . 
Agathon Carver is holding a series of Inner Thought meetings there . 
A contrast indeed to this gay scene of worldly pleasure but then I have always lived on contrasts ! To me the only death is monotony . 
I always say to Ellen Beware of monotony it's the mother of all the deadly sins . 
But my poor child is going through a phase of exaltation , of abhorrence of the world . 
Ah , if she had only listened to me when it was still possible . 
When the door was still open . 
But shall we go down and watch this absorbing match ? I hear your May is one of the competitors . 
Archer , who had not seen him for two or three months , was struck by the change in his appearance . 
In the hot summer light his floridness seemed heavy and bloated , and but for his erect square shouldered walk he would have looked like an over fed and over dressed old man . 
There were all sorts of rumours afloat about Beaufort . 
Beaufort's fortune was substantial enough to stand the strain and yet the disquieting rumours persisted , not only in Fifth Avenue but in Wall Street . 
He advanced toward the Marchioness and Newland with his usual half sneering smile . 
Hullo , Medora ! Did the trotters do their business ? Forty minutes , eh ? . 
Well , that's not so bad , considering your nerves had to be spared . 
May Welland was just coming out of the tent . 
She had her bow and arrow in her hand , and placing herself on the chalk mark traced on the turf she lifted the bow to her shoulder and took aim . 
Gad , Archer heard Lawrence Lefferts say , not one of the lot holds the bow as she does and Beaufort retorted Yes but that's the only kind of target she'll ever hit . 
His host's contemptuous tribute to May's niceness was just what a husband should have wished to hear said of his wife . 
The fact that a coarseminded man found her lacking in attraction was simply another proof of her quality yet the words sent a faint shiver through his heart . 
She took the congratulations of her rivals and of the rest of the company with the simplicity that was her crowning grace . 
No one could ever be jealous of her triumphs because she managed to give the feeling that she would have been just as serene if she had missed them . 
But when her eyes met her husband's her face glowed with the pleasure she saw in his . 
Mrs. Welland's basket work pony carriage was waiting for them , and they drove off among the dispersing carriages , May handling the reins and Archer sitting at her side . 
Shall we go to see Granny ? May suddenly proposed . 
I should like to tell her myself that I've won the prize . 
There's lots of time before dinner . 
Archer acquiesced , and she turned the ponies down Narragansett Avenue , crossed Spring Street and drove out toward the rocky moorland beyond . 
Here , in a thicket of stunted oaks , her verandahs spread themselves above the island dotted waters . 
Since she had been the means of hastening his marriage old Catherine had shown to Archer the cordiality which a service rendered excites toward the person served . 
she always received him with a genial twinkle of complicity and a play of allusion to which May seemed fortunately impervious . 
Quite an heirloom , in fact , my dear , the old lady chuckled . 
You must leave it in fee to your eldest girl . 
She pinched May's white arm and watched the colour flood her face . 
Ellen ELLEN ! she cried in her shrill old voice , trying to bend forward far enough to catch a glimpse of the lawn beyond the verandah . 
There was no answer , and Mrs. Mingott rapped impatiently with her stick on the shiny floor . 
Run down and fetch her , like a good grandson this pretty lady will describe the party to me , she said and Archer stood up as if in a dream . 
as shining in the brilliant diplomatic society that was supposed to make up for the social short comings of the Administration . 
The Marchioness's foolish lisp had called up a vision of the little fire lit drawing room and the sound of the carriage wheels returning down the deserted street . 
The way to the shore descended from the bank on which the house was perched to a walk above the water planted with weeping willows . 
Archer stopped at the sight as if he had waked from sleep . 
What am I ? A son in law Archer thought . 
The figure at the end of the pier had not moved . 
The lady in the summer house seemed to be held by the same sight . 
Archer , as he watched , remembered the scene in the Shaughraun , and Montague lifting Ada Dyas's ribbon to his lips without her knowing that he was in the room . 
She doesn't know she hasn't guessed . 
The boat was gliding out on the receding tide . 
It slid before the Lime Rock , blotted out Ida Lewis's little house , and passed across the turret in which the light was hung . 
Archer waited till a wide space of water sparkled between the last reef of the island and the stern of the boat but still the figure in the summer house did not move . 
He turned and walked up the hill . 
I'm sorry you didn't find Ellen I should have liked to see her again , May said as they drove home through the dusk . 
But perhaps she wouldn't have cared she seems so changed . 
Changed ? echoed her husband in a colourless voice , his eyes fixed on the ponies' twitching ears . 
So indifferent to her friends , I mean giving up New York and her house , and spending her time with such queer people . 
Fancy how hideously uncomfortable she must be at the Blenkers' ! She says she does it to keep cousin Medora out of mischief to prevent her marrying dreadful people . 
But I sometimes think we've always bored her . 
He burst into a laugh . 
Sancta simplicitas ! he exclaimed and as she turned a puzzled frown on him he added I don't think I ever heard you say a cruel thing before . 
Cruel ? Well watching the contortions of the damned is supposed to be a favourite sport of the angels but I believe even they don't think people happier in hell . 
They drove down Bellevue Avenue and turned in between the chamfered wooden gate posts surmounted by cast iron lamps which marked the approach to the Welland villa . 
The young man , as he followed his wife into the hall , was conscious of a curious reversal of mood . 
To meet Mrs. and the Misses Blenker . 
Red Gables , Catherine Street . 
R. S. V. P. Good gracious Mr. Welland gasped , as if a second reading had been necessary to bring the monstrous absurdity of the thing home to him . 
Poor Amy Sillerton you never can tell what her husband will do next , Mrs. Welland sighed . 
I suppose he's just discovered the Blenkers . 
Professor Emerson Sillerton was a thorn in the side of Newport society and a thorn that could not be plucked out , for it grew on a venerable and venerated family tree . 
He was , as people said , a man who had had every advantage . 
His father was Sillerton Jackson's uncle , his mother a Pennilow of Boston on each side there was wealth and position , and mutual suitability . 
Some of us , my dear more than one ? Three o'clock is such a very awkward hour . 
At the thought he laid down his knife and fork again , and a flush of anxiety rose to his finely wrinkled cheek . 
There's no reason why you should go at all , my dear , his wife answered with a cheerfulness that had become automatic . 
She glanced hesitatingly at her daughter . 
And if Newland's afternoon is provided for perhaps May can drive you out with the ponies , and try their new russet harness . 
It was a principle in the Welland family that people's days and hours should be what Mrs. Welland called provided for . 
was a vision that haunted her as the spectre of the unemployed haunts the philanthropist . 
Of course I'll drive with Papa I'm sure Newland will find something to do , May said , in a tone that gently reminded her husband of his lack of response . 
It was a cause of constant distress to Mrs. Welland that her son in law showed so little foresight in planning his days . 
Ah , yes like his father ! Mrs. Welland agreed , as if allowing for an inherited oddity and after that the question of Newland's unemployment was tacitly dropped . 
A breeze from the north drove little puffs of white cloud across an ultramarine sky , with a bright sea running under it . 
Bellevue Avenue was empty at that hour , and after dropping the stable lad at the corner of Mill Street Archer turned down the Old Beach Road and drove across Eastman's Beach . 
He had the feeling of unexplained excitement with which , on half holidays at school , he used to start off into the unknown . 
he would still have four golden hours to dispose of . 
At any rate , the Blenker habitation would probably be deserted , and he would be able , without indiscretion , to satisfy a vague curiosity concerning it . 
The longing was with him day and night , an incessant undefinable craving , like the sudden whim of a sick man for food or drink once tasted and long since forgotten . 
But at three o'clock he shook out the reins over the trotters and turned into the by roads leading to Portsmouth . 
On the road side facing the gateway stood one of the open sheds in which the New Englander shelters his farming implements and visitors hitch their teams . 
Archer , jumping down , led his pair into the shed , and after tying them to a post turned toward the house . 
Archer leaned for a while against the gate . 
It was strange to think that this place of silence and decay was the home of the turbulent Blenkers yet Archer was sure that he was not mistaken . 
But instead , he crossed the lawn and turned toward the box garden . 
As he entered it he caught sight of something bright coloured in the summer house , and presently made it out to be a pink parasol . 
The parasol drew him like a magnet he was sure it was hers . 
Archer lifted the handle to his lips . 
He heard a rustle of skirts against the box , and sat motionless , leaning on the parasol handle with clasped hands , and letting the rustle come nearer without lifting his eyes . 
He had always known that this must happen . 
Oh , Mr. Archer ! exclaimed a loud young voice and looking up he saw before him the youngest and largest of the Blenker girls , blonde and blowsy , in bedraggled muslin . 
A red blotch on one of her cheeks seemed to show that it had recently been pressed against a pillow , and her half awakened eyes stared at him hospitably but confusedly . 
Gracious where did you drop from ? I must have been sound asleep in the hammock . 
Everybody else has gone to Newport . 
Did you ring ? she incoherently enquired . 
Archer's confusion was greater than hers . 
I no that is , I was just going to . 
I had to come up the island to see about a horse , and I drove over on a chance of finding Mrs. Blenker and your visitors . 
But the house seemed empty so I sat down to wait . 
Miss Blenker , shaking off the fumes of sleep , looked at him with increasing interest . 
Mother's not here , or the Marchioness or anybody but me . 
Her glance became faintly reproachful . 
Did you ever know anything so disappointing ? Of course , she added gaily , I shouldn't have minded half as much if I'd known you were coming . 
We Blenkers are all like that . 
real Bohemians ! Recovering the sunshade with a powerful hand she unfurled it and suspended its rosy dome above her head . 
Yes , Ellen was called away yesterday she lets us call her Ellen , you know . 
A telegram came from Boston she said she might be gone for two days . 
I do LOVE the way she does her hair , don't you ? Miss Blenker rambled on . 
Archer continued to stare through her as though she had been transparent . 
All he saw was the trumpery parasol that arched its pinkness above her giggling head . 
Oh , I don't believe so . 
She didn't tell us what was in the telegram . 
I think she didn't want the Marchioness to know . 
His whole future seemed suddenly to be unrolled before him and passing down its endless emptiness he saw the dwindling figure of a man to whom nothing was ever to happen . 
He glanced about him at the unpruned garden , the tumble down house , and the oak grove under which the dusk was gathering . 
It had seemed so exactly the place in which he ought to have found Madame Olenska and she was far away , and even the pink sunshade was not hers . 
You don't know , I suppose I shall be in Boston tomorrow . 
If I could manage to see her He felt that Miss Blenker was losing interest in him , though her smile persisted . 
Oh , of course how lovely of you ! She's staying at the Parker House it must be horrible there in this weather . 
After that Archer was but intermittently aware of the remarks they exchanged . 
He could only remember stoutly resisting her entreaty that he should await the returning family and have high tea with them before he drove home . 
At length , with his hostess still at his side , he passed out of range of the wooden Cupid , unfastened his horses and drove off . 
At the turn of the lane he saw Miss Blenker standing at the gate and waving the pink parasol . 
The next morning , when Archer got out of the Fall River train , he emerged upon a steaming midsummer Boston . 
Archer found a cab and drove to the Somerset Club for breakfast . 
Even the fashionable quarters had the air of untidy domesticity to which no excess of heat ever degrades the European cities . 
Care takers in calico lounged on the door steps of the wealthy , and the Common looked like a pleasure ground on the morrow of a Masonic picnic . 
He breakfasted with appetite and method , beginning with a slice of melon , and studying a morning paper while he waited for his toast and scrambled eggs . 
He was even ashamed of the ease with which the whole thing had been done it reminded him , for an uncomfortable moment , of Lawrence Lefferts's masterly contrivances for securing his freedom . 
But this did not long trouble him , for he was not in an analytic mood . 
After breakfast he smoked a cigarette and glanced over the Commercial Advertiser . 
He looked at his watch , and finding that it was half past nine got up and went into the writing room . 
There he wrote a few lines , and ordered a messenger to take a cab to the Parker House and wait for the answer . 
He then sat down behind another newspaper and tried to calculate how long it would take a cab to get to the Parker House . 
The lady was out , sir , he suddenly heard a waiter's voice at his elbow and he stammered Out ? as if it were a word in a strange language . 
He got up and went into the hall . 
It must be a mistake she could not be out at that hour . 
He flushed with anger at his own stupidity why had he not sent the note as soon as he arrived ? He found his hat and stick and went forth into the street . 
The city had suddenly become as strange and vast and empty as if he were a traveller from distant lands . 
For a moment he stood on the door step hesitating then he decided to go to the Parker House . 
He saw her drooping profile , and the knot of hair fastened low in the neck under her dark hat , and the long wrinkled glove on the hand that held the sunshade . 
He came a step or two nearer , and she turned and looked at him . 
Oh she said and for the first time he noticed a startled look on her face but in another moment it gave way to a slow smile of wonder and contentment . 
Oh she murmured again , on a different note , as he stood looking down at her and without rising she made a place for him on the bench . 
I'm here on business just got here , Archer explained and , without knowing why , he suddenly began to feign astonishment at seeing her . 
I ? Oh , I'm here on business too , she answered , turning her head toward him so that they were face to face . 
The words hardly reached him he was aware only of her voice , and of the startling fact that not an echo of it had remained in his memory . 
He had not even remembered that it was low pitched , with a faint roughness on the consonants . 
You do your hair differently , he said , his heart beating as if he had uttered something irrevocable . 
Differently ? No it's only that I do it as best I can when I'm without Nastasia . 
Nastasia but isn't she with you ? No I'm alone . 
For two days it was not worth while to bring her . 
You're alone at the Parker House ? She looked at him with a flash of her old malice . 
Does it strike you as dangerous ? No not dangerous But unconventional ? I see I suppose it is . 
I hadn't thought of it , because I've just done something so much more unconventional . 
The faint tinge of irony lingered in her eyes . 
I've just refused to take back a sum of money that belonged to me . 
Archer sprang up and moved a step or two away . 
She had furled her parasol and sat absently drawing patterns on the gravel . 
Presently he came back and stood before her . 
Some one has come here to meet you ? Yes . 
With this offer ? She nodded . 
And you refused because of the conditions ? I refused , she said after a moment . 
He sat down by her again . 
What were the conditions ? Oh , they were not onerous just to sit at the head of his table now and then . 
There was another interval of silence . 
Archer's heart had slammed itself shut in the queer way it had , and he sat vainly groping for a word . 
He wants you back at any price ? Well a considerable price . 
At least the sum is considerable for me . 
He paused again , beating about the question he felt he must put . 
It was to meet him here that you came ? She stared , and then burst into a laugh . 
Meet him my husband ? HERE ? At this season he's always at Cowes or Baden . 
He sent some one ? Yes . 
With a letter ? She shook her head . 
I don't think I've had more than one letter from him . 
The allusion brought the colour to her cheek , and it reflected itself in Archer's vivid blush . 
Why does he never write ? Why should he ? What does one have secretaries for ? The young man's blush deepened . 
She had pronounced the word as if it had no more significance than any other in her vocabulary . 
He paused again , and then took another plunge . 
And you came out here to think the chance over ? I came out to get a breath of air . 
I'm taking the afternoon train back to Portsmouth . 
They sat silent , not looking at each other , but straight ahead at the people passing along the path . 
Finally she turned her eyes again to his face and said You're not changed . 
He felt like answering I was , till I saw you again but instead he stood up abruptly and glanced about him at the untidy sweltering park . 
Why shouldn't we go out a little on the bay ? There's a breeze , and it will be cooler . 
We might take the steamboat down to Point Arley . 
She glanced up at him hesitatingly and he went on On a Monday morning there won't be anybody on the boat . 
My train doesn't leave till evening I'm going back to New York . 
Why shouldn't we ? he insisted , looking down at her and suddenly he broke out Haven't we done all we could ? Oh she murmured again . 
She stood up and reopened her sunshade , glancing about her as if to take counsel of the scene , and assure herself of the impossibility of remaining in it . 
Then her eyes returned to his face . 
You mustn't say things like that to me , she said . 
I'll say anything you like or nothing . 
I won't open my mouth unless you tell me to . 
What harm can it do to anybody ? All I want is to listen to you , he stammered . 
She drew out a little gold faced watch on an enamelled chain . 
Oh , don't calculate , he broke out give me the day ! I want to get you away from that man . 
At what time was he coming ? Her colour rose again . 
Then you must come at once . 
You needn't be afraid if I don't come . 
Nor you either if you do . 
I swear I only want to hear about you , to know what you've been doing . 
It's a hundred years since we've met it may be another hundred before we meet again . 
She still wavered , her anxious eyes on his face . 
Why didn't you come down to the beach to fetch me , the day I was at Granny's ? she asked . 
Because you didn't look round because you didn't know I was there . 
I swore I wouldn't unless you looked round . 
He laughed as the childishness of the confession struck him . 
But I didn't look round on purpose . 
On purpose ? I knew you were there when you drove in I recognised the ponies . 
So I went down to the beach . 
To get away from me as far as you could ? She repeated in a low voice To get away from you as far as I could . 
He laughed out again , this time in boyish satisfaction . 
Well , you see it's no use . 
I may as well tell you , he added , that the business I came here for was just to find you . 
But , look here , we must start or we shall miss our boat . 
Our boat ? She frowned perplexedly , and then smiled . 
Oh , but I must go back to the hotel first I must leave a note As many notes as you please . 
He drew out a note case and one of the new stylographic pens . 
I've even got an envelope you see how everything's predestined ! There steady the thing on your knee , and I'll get the pen going in a second . 
They have to be humoured wait He banged the hand that held the pen against the back of the bench . 
It's like jerking down the mercury in a thermometer just a trick . 
Now try She laughed , and bending over the sheet of paper which he had laid on his note case , began to write . 
Madame Olenska slipped the sheet into the envelope , wrote a name on it , and put it into her pocket . 
Then she too stood up . 
I told you everything was predestined ! Here's a cab for us . 
Archer , looking at his watch , saw that there was time to drive to the Parker House before going to the steamboat landing . 
They rattled through the hot streets and drew up at the door of the hotel . 
Archer held out his hand for the letter . 
Shall I take it in ? he asked but Madame Olenska , shaking her head , sprang out and disappeared through the glazed doors . 
And then , suddenly , came a face that he could not relate to the other faces . 
He vanished in the stream of passersby , and Archer resumed his patrol . 
At the thought Archer's apprehension rose to anguish . 
If she doesn't come soon I'll go in and find her , he said . 
The doors swung open again and she was at his side . 
They got into the herdic , and as it drove off he took out his watch and saw that she had been absent just three minutes . 
In the clatter of loose windows that made talk impossible they bumped over the disjointed cobblestones to the wharf . 
He longed to ask Madame Olenska if she did not have the same feeling the feeling that they were starting on some long voyage from which they might never return . 
But he was afraid to say it , or anything else that might disturb the delicate balance of her trust in him . 
In reality he had no wish to betray that trust . 
As the boat left the harbour and turned seaward a breeze stirred about them and the bay broke up into long oily undulations , then into ripples tipped with spray . 
The fog of sultriness still hung over the city , but ahead lay a fresh world of ruffled waters , and distant promontories with light houses in the sun . 
Madame Olenska , leaning back against the boat rail , drank in the coolness between parted lips . 
She had wound a long veil about her hat , but it left her face uncovered , and Archer was struck by the tranquil gaiety of her expression . 
unduly elated by their possibility . 
This is hopeless I'll ask for a private room , he said and Madame Olenska , without offering any objection , waited while he went in search of it . 
The room opened on a long wooden verandah , with the sea coming in at the windows . 
It was bare and cool , with a table covered with a coarse checkered cloth and adorned by a bottle of pickles and a blueberry pie under a cage . 
Carver aren't you afraid of Dr . 
Carver ? I hear he's been staying with you at the Blenkers' . 
Oh , the Carver danger is over . 
Carver is a very clever man . 
He wants a rich wife to finance his plans , and Medora is simply a good advertisement as a convert . 
A convert to what ? To all sorts of new and crazy social schemes . 
But , do you know , they interest me more than the blind conformity to tradition somebody else's tradition that I see among our own friends . 
It seems stupid to have discovered America only to make it into a copy of another country . 
She smiled across the table . 
Do you suppose Christopher Columbus would have taken all that trouble just to go to the Opera with the Selfridge Merrys ? Archer changed colour . 
And Beaufort do you say these things to Beaufort ? he asked abruptly . 
I haven't seen him for a long time . 
But I used to and he understands . 
Ah , it's what I've always told you you don't like us . 
And you like Beaufort because he's so unlike us . 
He looked about the bare room and out at the bare beach and the row of stark white village houses strung along the shore . 
We've no character , no colour , no variety . 
I wonder , he broke out , why you don't go back ? Her eyes darkened , and he expected an indignant rejoinder . 
But she sat silent , as if thinking over what he had said , and he grew frightened lest she should answer that she wondered too . 
At length she said I believe it's because of you . 
It was impossible to make the confession more dispassionately , or in a tone less encouraging to the vanity of the person addressed . 
Exquisite pleasures it's something to have had them ! he felt like retorting but the appeal in her eyes kept him silent . 
I want , she went on , to be perfectly honest with you and with myself . 
For a long time I've hoped this chance would come that I might tell you how you've helped me , what you've made of me Archer sat staring beneath frowning brows . 
He interrupted her with a laugh . 
And what do you make out that you've made of me ? She paled a little . 
Of you ? Yes for I'm of your making much more than you ever were of mine . 
I'm the man who married one woman because another one told him to . 
Her paleness turned to a fugitive flush . 
I thought you promised you were not to say such things today . 
Ah how like a woman ! None of you will ever see a bad business through ! She lowered her voice . 
For that's the thing we've always got to think of haven't we by your own showing ? she insisted . 
My own showing ? he echoed , his blank eyes still on the sea . 
And in that case there's no reason on earth why you shouldn't go back ? he concluded for her . 
Her eyes were clinging to him desperately . 
Oh , IS there no reason ? Not if you staked your all on the success of my marriage . 
My marriage , he said savagely , isn't going to be a sight to keep you here . 
It's beyond human enduring that's all . 
Oh , don't say that when I'm enduring it ! she burst out , her eyes filling . 
Her arms had dropped along the table , and she sat with her face abandoned to his gaze as if in the recklessness of a desperate peril . 
The face exposed her as much as if it had been her whole person , with the soul behind it Archer stood dumb , overwhelmed by what it suddenly told him . 
You too oh , all this time , you too ? For answer , she let the tears on her lids overflow and run slowly downward . 
Half the width of the room was still between them , and neither made any show of moving . 
Now his imagination spun about the hand as about the edge of a vortex but still he made no effort to draw nearer . 
He had known the love that is fed on caresses and feeds them but this passion that was closer than his bones was not to be superficially satisfied . 
His one terror was to do anything which might efface the sound and impression of her words his one thought , that he should never again feel quite alone . 
But after a moment the sense of waste and ruin overcame him . 
There they were , close together and safe and shut in yet so chained to their separate destinies that they might as well have been half the world apart . 
What's the use when you will go back ? he broke out , a great hopeless HOW ON EARTH CAN I KEEP YOU ? crying out to her beneath his words . 
She sat motionless , with lowered lids . 
Oh I shan't go yet ! Not yet ? Some time , then ? Some time that you already foresee ? At that she raised her clearest eyes . 
I promise you not as long as you hold out . 
Not as long as we can look straight at each other like this . 
He dropped into his chair . 
What her answer really said was If you lift a finger you'll drive me back back to all the abominations you know of , and all the temptations you half guess . 
He understood it as clearly as if she had uttered the words , and the thought kept him anchored to his side of the table in a kind of moved and sacred submission . 
What a life for you ! he groaned . 
Oh as long as it's a part of yours . 
And mine a part of yours ? She nodded . 
And that's to be all for either of us ? Well it IS all , isn't it ? At that he sprang up , forgetting everything but the sweetness of her face . 
They fell into his , while her arms , extended but not rigid , kept him far enough off to let her surrendered face say the rest . 
He must do nothing to make this meeting their last he must leave their future in her care , asking only that she should keep fast hold of it . 
I won't go back , she said and turning away she opened the door and led the way into the public dining room . 
Once more on the boat , and in the presence of others , Archer felt a tranquillity of spirit that surprised as much as it sustained him . 
Nevertheless , for a man sick with unsatisfied love , and parting for an indefinite period from the object of his passion , he felt himself almost humiliatingly calm and comforted . 
He wandered back to the club , and went and sat alone in the deserted library , turning and turning over in his thoughts every separate second of their hours together . 
No she would go only if she felt herself becoming a temptation to Archer , a temptation to fall away from the standard they had both set up . 
Her choice would be to stay near him as long as he did not ask her to come nearer and it depended on himself to keep her just there , safe but secluded . 
In the train these thoughts were still with him . 
In this state of abstraction he found himself , the following morning , waking to the reality of a stifling September day in New York . 
The same thing struck him now and again he became aware of a dim stir of former associations . 
So you DID get here , after all ? he exclaimed , casting a wondering eye on the astute and haggard little countenance of young Carfry's French tutor . 
Oh , I got here yes , M. Riviere smiled with drawn lips . 
But not for long I return the day after tomorrow . 
He stood grasping his light valise in one neatly gloved hand , and gazing anxiously , perplexedly , almost appealingly , into Archer's face . 
M. Riviere was visibly touched and surprised . 
But I was only going to ask if you would tell me how to reach some sort of conveyance . 
There are no porters , and no one here seems to listen I know our American stations must surprise you . 
When you ask for a porter they give you chewing gum . 
But if you'll come along I'll extricate you and you must really lunch with me , you know . 
A horse car received him , and Archer walked away . 
Punctually at the hour M. Riviere appeared , shaved , smoothed out , but still unmistakably drawn and serious . 
Archer was alone in his office , and the young man , before accepting the seat he proffered , began abruptly I believe I saw you , sir , yesterday in Boston . 
The statement was insignificant enough , and Archer was about to frame an assent when his words were checked by something mysterious yet illuminating in his visitor's insistent gaze . 
It is extraordinary , very extraordinary , M. Riviere continued , that we should have met in the circumstances in which I find myself . 
What circumstances ? Archer asked , wondering a little crudely if he needed money . 
M. Riviere continued to study him with tentative eyes . 
I have come , not to look for employment , as I spoke of doing when we last met , but on a special mission Ah ! Archer exclaimed . 
In a flash the two meetings had connected themselves in his mind . 
He paused to take in the situation thus suddenly lighted up for him , and M. Riviere also remained silent , as if aware that what he had said was enough . 
A special mission , Archer at length repeated . 
It was about this mission that you wanted to consult me ? Archer finally asked . 
M. Riviere bent his head . 
Not in my own behalf on that score I I have fully dealt with myself . 
I should like if I may to speak to you about the Countess Olenska . 
And on whose behalf , he said , do you wish to do this ? M. Riviere met the question sturdily . 
Well I might say HERS , if it did not sound like a liberty . 
Shall I say instead on behalf of abstract justice ? Archer considered him ironically . 
In other words you are Count Olenski's messenger ? He saw his blush more darkly reflected in M. Riviere's sallow countenance . 
Not to YOU , Monsieur . 
If I come to you , it is on quite other grounds . 
What right have you , in the circumstances , to BE on any other ground ? Archer retorted . 
If you're an emissary you're an emissary . 
My mission is over as far as the Countess Olenska goes , it has failed . 
I can't help that , Archer rejoined on the same note of irony . 
No but you can help M. Riviere paused , turned his hat about in his still carefully gloved hands , looked into its lining and then back at Archer's face . 
You can help , Monsieur , I am convinced , to make it equally a failure with her family . 
Archer pushed back his chair and stood up . 
Well and by God I will ! he exclaimed . 
M. Riviere paled to his normal hue paler than that his complexion could hardly turn . 
His look passed from timidity to absolute distress for a young man of his usually resourceful mien it would have been difficult to appear more disarmed and defenceless . 
M. Riviere took this onslaught with a disconcerting humility . 
The arguments I want to present to you , Monsieur , are my own and not those I was sent over with . 
Then I see still less reason for listening to them . 
M. Riviere again looked into his hat , as if considering whether these last words were not a sufficiently broad hint to put it on and be gone . 
Then he spoke with sudden decision . 
M. Riviere had succeeded in imposing himself Archer , reddening slightly , dropped into his chair again , and signed to the young man to be seated . 
I beg your pardon but why isn't the matter closed ? M. Riviere gazed back at him with anguish . 
Before seeing her , I saw at Count Olenski's request Mr. Lovell Mingott , with whom I had several talks before going to Boston . 
I understand that he represents his mother's view and that Mrs. Manson Mingott's influence is great throughout her family . 
Archer sat silent , with the sense of clinging to the edge of a sliding precipice . 
Even in the tumult of new discoveries Archer remembered his indignant exclamation , and the fact that since then his wife had never named Madame Olenska to him . 
He admired the tribal discipline which made May bow to this decision . 
Archer looked up and met his visitor's anxious gaze . 
What is your object in speaking to me of this ? He had not to wait a moment for the answer . 
To beg you , Monsieur to beg you with all the force I'm capable of not to let her go back . 
Oh , don't let her ! M. Riviere exclaimed . 
Archer looked at him with increasing astonishment . 
May I ask , he said at length , if this is the line you took with the Countess Olenska ? M. Riviere reddened , but his eyes did not falter . 
No , Monsieur I accepted my mission in good faith . 
So I supposed you could hardly have accepted such a mission otherwise . 
I should not have accepted it . 
Well , then ? Archer paused again , and their eyes met in another protracted scrutiny . 
Ah , Monsieur , after I had seen her , after I had listened to her , I knew she was better off here . 
You knew ? Monsieur , I discharged my mission faithfully I put the Count's arguments , I stated his offers , without adding any comment of my own . 
The Countess was good enough to listen patiently she carried her goodness so far as to see me twice she considered impartially all I had come to say . 
And it was in the course of these two talks that I changed my mind , that I came to see things differently . 
May I ask what led to this change ? Simply seeing the change in HER , M. Riviere replied . 
The change in her ? Then you knew her before ? The young man's colour again rose . 
I used to see her in her husband's house . 
I have known Count Olenski for many years . 
You can imagine that he would not have sent a stranger on such a mission . 
Archer's gaze , wandering away to the blank walls of the office , rested on a hanging calendar surmounted by the rugged features of the President of the United States . 
That such a conversation should be going on anywhere within the millions of square miles subject to his rule seemed as strange as anything that the imagination could invent . 
The change what sort of a change ? Ah , Monsieur , if I could tell you ! M. Riviere paused . 
Tenez the discovery , I suppose , of what I'd never thought of before that she's an American . 
M. Riviere paused , and then added Whereas it's far from being as simple as that . 
Archer looked back to the President of the United States , and then down at his desk and at the papers scattered on it . 
For a second or two he could not trust himself to speak . 
During this interval he heard M. Riviere's chair pushed back , and was aware that the young man had risen . 
When he glanced up again he saw that his visitor was as moved as himself . 
Thank you , Archer said simply . 
There's nothing to thank me for , Monsieur it is I , rather M. Riviere broke off , as if speech for him too were difficult . 
I should like , though , he continued in a firmer voice , to add one thing . 
You asked me if I was in Count Olenski's employ . 
M. Riviere bowed and drew back a step . 
Thank you , Archer said again , as their hands met . 
Every year on the fifteenth of October Fifth Avenue opened its shutters , unrolled its carpets and hung up its triple layer of window curtains . 
By the first of November this household ritual was over , and society had begun to look about and take stock of itself . 
By the fifteenth the season was in full blast , Opera and theatres were putting forth their new attractions , dinner engagements were accumulating , and dates for dances being fixed . 
And punctually at about this time Mrs. Archer always said that New York was very much changed . 
For New York , to Mrs. Archer's mind , never changed without changing for the worse and in this view Miss Sophy Jackson heartily concurred . 
Mr. Sillerton Jackson , as became a man of the world , suspended his judgment and listened with an amused impartiality to the lamentations of the ladies . 
These points had been raised , as usual , at Mrs. Archer's Thanksgiving dinner . 
Ashmore meant when he chose a text from Jeremiah for his Thanksgiving sermon . 
Ashmore , the new Rector of St . 
Matthew's , had been chosen because he was very advanced his sermons were considered bold in thought and novel in language . 
When he fulminated against fashionable society he always spoke of its trend and to Mrs. Archer it was terrifying and yet fascinating to feel herself part of a community that was trending . 
There's no doubt that Dr . 
Ashmore is right there IS a marked trend , she said , as if it were something visible and measurable , like a crack in a house . 
It was odd , though , to preach about it on Thanksgiving , Miss Jackson opined and her hostess drily rejoined Oh , he means us to give thanks for what's left . 
The extravagance in dress Miss Jackson began . 
Yet I know she got it out from Worth only two years ago , because my seamstress always goes in to make over her Paris dresses before she wears them . 
Yes she's one of the few . 
Miss Jackson glanced around the table , caught Janey's bulging gaze , and took refuge in an unintelligible murmur . 
Like her rivals , said Mr. Sillerton Jackson , with the air of producing an epigram . 
Oh , the ladies murmured and Mrs. Archer added , partly to distract her daughter's attention from forbidden topics Poor Regina ! Her Thanksgiving hasn't been a very cheerful one , I'm afraid . 
Have you heard the rumours about Beaufort's speculations , Sillerton ? Mr. Jackson nodded carelessly . 
Every one had heard the rumours in question , and he scorned to confirm a tale that was already common property . 
A gloomy silence fell upon the party . 
Archer's New York tolerated hypocrisy in private relations but in business matters it exacted a limpid and impeccable honesty . 
The talk took refuge in less ominous topics but everything they touched on seemed to confirm Mrs. Archer's sense of an accelerated trend . 
I know , dear , I know , Mrs. Archer sighed . 
A sudden blush rose to young Mrs. Archer's face it surprised her husband as much as the other guests about the table . 
Oh , ELLEN she murmured , much in the same accusing and yet deprecating tone in which her parents might have said Oh , THE BLENKERS . 
May's blush remained permanently vivid it seemed to have a significance beyond that implied by the recognition of Madame Olenska's social bad faith . 
I've no doubt we all seem alike to foreigners , said Miss Jackson tartly . 
I don't think Ellen cares for society but nobody knows exactly what she does care for , May continued , as if she had been groping for something noncommittal . 
Ah , well Mrs. Archer sighed again . 
Everybody knew that the Countess Olenska was no longer in the good graces of her family . 
Even her devoted champion , old Mrs. Manson Mingott , had been unable to defend her refusal to return to her husband . 
The Mingotts had not proclaimed their disapproval aloud their sense of solidarity was too strong . 
It was incredible , but it was a fact , that Ellen , in spite of all her opportunities and her privileges , had become simply Bohemian . 
The fact enforced the contention that she had made a fatal mistake in not returning to Count Olenski . 
After all , a young woman's place was under her husband's roof , especially when she had left it in circumstances that . 
if one had cared to look into them . 
Madame Olenska is a great favourite with the gentlemen , said Miss Sophy , with her air of wishing to put forth something conciliatory when she knew that she was planting a dart . 
Once established before the grate , and consoling himself for the inadequacy of the dinner by the perfection of his cigar , Mr. Jackson became portentous and communicable . 
If the Beaufort smash comes , he announced , there are going to be disclosures . 
Archer raised his head quickly he could never hear the name without the sharp vision of Beaufort's heavy figure , opulently furred and shod , advancing through the snow at Skuytercliff . 
There's bound to be , Mr. Jackson continued , the nastiest kind of a cleaning up . 
He hasn't spent all his money on Regina . 
Oh , well that's discounted , isn't it ? My belief is he'll pull out yet , said the young man , wanting to change the subject . 
I know he was to see some of the influential people today . 
Of course , Mr. Jackson reluctantly conceded , it's to be hoped they can tide him over this time anyhow . 
I shouldn't like to think of poor Regina's spending the rest of her life in some shabby foreign watering place for bankrupts . 
It seemed to him so natural however tragic that money ill gotten should be cruelly expiated , that his mind , hardly lingering over Mrs. Beaufort's doom , wandered back to closer questions . 
Since then there had been no farther communication between them , and he had built up within himself a kind of sanctuary in which she throned among his secret thoughts and longings . 
Absent that was what he was so absent from everything most densely real and near to those about him that it sometimes startled him to find they still imagined he was there . 
He became aware that Mr. Jackson was clearing his throat preparatory to farther revelations . 
I don't know , of course , how far your wife's family are aware of what people say about well , about Madame Olenska's refusal to accept her husband's latest offer . 
Archer was silent , and Mr. Jackson obliquely continued It's a pity it's certainly a pity that she refused it . 
A pity ? In God's name , why ? Mr. Jackson looked down his leg to the unwrinkled sock that joined it to a glossy pump . 
The wells of the brass double inkstand danced in their sockets . 
What the devil do you mean , sir ? Mr. Jackson , shifting himself slightly in his chair , turned a tranquil gaze on the young man's burning face . 
Archer moved toward the mantelpiece and bent over to knock his ashes into the grate . 
Lefferts who made love to her and got snubbed for it ! Archer broke out contemptuously . 
Ah DID he ? snapped the other , as if this were exactly the fact he had been laying a trap for . 
He still sat sideways from the fire , so that his hard old gaze held Archer's face as if in a spring of steel . 
Well , well it's a pity she didn't go back before Beaufort's cropper , he repeated . 
If she goes NOW , and if he fails , it will only confirm the general impression which isn't by any means peculiar to Lefferts , by the way . 
The old gentleman considered him attentively . 
That's your opinion , eh ? Well , no doubt you know . 
Of course , Madame Olenska may still soften old Catherine , who's been the most inexorably opposed to her staying and old Catherine could make her any allowance she chooses . 
But we all know that she hates parting with good money and the rest of the family have no particular interest in keeping Madame Olenska here . 
Archer was burning with unavailing wrath he was exactly in the state when a man is sure to do something stupid , knowing all the while that he is doing it . 
This fact warned Archer to go warily but the insinuations about Beaufort made him reckless . 
He was mindful , however , if not of his own danger , at least of the fact that Mr. Jackson was under his mother's roof , and consequently his guest . 
Old New York scrupulously observed the etiquette of hospitality , and no discussion with a guest was ever allowed to degenerate into a disagreement . 
Shall we go up and join my mother ? he suggested curtly , as Mr. Jackson's last cone of ashes dropped into the brass ashtray at his elbow . 
On the drive homeward May remained oddly silent through the darkness , he still felt her enveloped in her menacing blush . 
What its menace meant he could not guess but he was sufficiently warned by the fact that Madame Olenska's name had evoked it . 
They went upstairs , and he turned into the library . 
She usually followed him but he heard her passing down the passage to her bedroom . 
May ! he called out impatiently and she came back , with a slight glance of surprise at his tone . 
This lamp is smoking again I should think the servants might see that it's kept properly trimmed , he grumbled nervously . 
Look here , he said suddenly , I may have to go to Washington for a few days soon next week perhaps . 
Her hand remained on the key of the lamp as she turned to him slowly . 
The heat from its flame had brought back a glow to her face , but it paled as she looked up . 
Her hand was still on the key of the lamp when the last word of this mute message reached him . 
She turned the wick down , lifted off the globe , and breathed on the sulky flame . 
They smell less if one blows them out , she explained , with her bright housekeeping air . 
On the threshold she turned and paused for his kiss . 
Wall Street , the next day , had more reassuring reports of Beaufort's situation . 
They were not definite , but they were hopeful . 
New York was inexorable in its condemnation of business irregularities . 
But to be obliged to offer them up would be not only painful but inconvenient . 
Archer had definitely made up his mind to go to Washington . 
Nevertheless , he went home that afternoon determined in any event to leave the next evening . 
There were too many things that he must say to her . 
On the Wednesday morning , when he reached his office , Mr. Letterblair met him with a troubled face . 
In consequence , a run on the bank had begun , and its doors were likely to close before the day was over . 
The ugliest things were being said of Beaufort's dastardly manoeuvre , and his failure promised to be one of the most discreditable in the history of Wall Street . 
The extent of the calamity left Mr. Letterblair white and incapacitated . 
I've seen bad things in my time but nothing as bad as this . 
Everybody we know will be hit , one way or another . 
She always believed in Beaufort she made a friend of him ! And there's the whole Dallas connection poor Mrs. Beaufort is related to every one of you . 
There was a knock , and Mr. Letterblair turned his head sharply . 
What is it ? I can't be disturbed . 
A clerk brought in a letter for Archer and withdrew . 
Recognising his wife's hand , the young man opened the envelope and read Won't you please come up town as early as you can ? Granny had a slight stroke last night . 
In some mysterious way she found out before any one else this awful news about the bank . 
Uncle Lovell is away shooting , and the idea of the disgrace has made poor Papa so nervous that he has a temperature and can't leave his room . 
Mamma needs you dreadfully , and I do hope you can get away at once and go straight to Granny's . 
It was after twelve o'clock when this laborious vehicle dropped him at old Catherine's . 
May looked pale but smiling Dr . 
It appeared that the evening before something dreadful and mysterious had happened . 
The butler , hearing a familiar voice , had thrown open the sitting room door , announcing Mrs. Julius Beaufort and had then closed it again on the two ladies . 
They must have been together , he thought , about an hour . 
She seemed , at that time , though obviously distressed , in complete control of her body and brain . 
, had found their mistress sitting up against her pillows with a crooked smile on her face and one little hand hanging limp from its huge arm . 
After all , Mamma , he won't have SEEN them , her daughter suggested and Mrs. Welland sighed Ah , no thank heaven he's safe in bed . 
Bencomb has promised to keep him there till poor Mamma is better , and Regina has been got away somewhere . 
Archer had seated himself near the window and was gazing out blankly at the deserted thoroughfare . 
It was evident that he had been summoned rather for the moral support of the stricken ladies than because of any specific aid that he could render . 
Mrs. Lovell Mingott , who had been in another room writing notes , presently reappeared , and added her voice to the discussion . 
In THEIR day , the elder ladies agreed , the wife of a man who had done anything disgraceful in business had only one idea to efface herself , to disappear with him . 
There was the case of poor Grandmamma Spicer your great grandmother , May . 
Yes , it would be more becoming in Regina to hide her own countenance than to talk about other people's , Mrs. Lovell Mingott agreed . 
I understand that the emerald necklace she wore at the Opera last Friday had been sent on approval from Ball and Black's in the afternoon . 
I wonder if they'll ever get it back ? Archer listened unmoved to the relentless chorus . 
The idea of absolute financial probity as the first law of a gentleman's code was too deeply ingrained in him for sentimental considerations to weaken it . 
An adventurer like Lemuel Struthers might build up the millions of his Shoe Polish on any number of shady dealings but unblemished honesty was the noblesse oblige of old financial New York . 
Nor did Mrs. Beaufort's fate greatly move Archer . 
The mulatto maid called Mrs. Lovell Mingott into the hall , and the latter came back in a moment with a frowning brow . 
She wants me to telegraph for Ellen Olenska . 
I had written to Ellen , of course , and to Medora but now it seems that's not enough . 
I'm to telegraph to her immediately , and to tell her that she's to come alone . 
The announcement was received in silence . 
Mrs. Welland sighed resignedly , and May rose from her seat and went to gather up some newspapers that had been scattered on the floor . 
I suppose it must be done , Mrs. Lovell Mingott continued , as if hoping to be contradicted and May turned back toward the middle of the room . 
Of course it must be done , she said . 
Granny knows what she wants , and we must carry out all her wishes . 
Shall I write the telegram for you , Auntie ? If it goes at once Ellen can probably catch tomorrow morning's train . 
She pronounced the syllables of the name with a peculiar clearness , as if she had tapped on two silver bells . 
Well , it can't go at once . 
Jasper and the pantry boy are both out with notes and telegrams . 
May turned to her husband with a smile . 
But here's Newland , ready to do anything . 
Will you take the telegram , Newland ? There'll be just time before luncheon . 
Archer rose with a murmur of readiness , and she seated herself at old Catherine's rosewood Bonheur du Jour , and wrote out the message in her large immature hand . 
When it was written she blotted it neatly and handed it to Archer . 
Your Granny would be the last person to wish it . 
The outer door closed on Archer and he walked hastily away toward the telegraph office . 
Ol ol howjer spell it , anyhow ? asked the tart young lady to whom Archer had pushed his wife's telegram across the brass ledge of the Western Union office . 
Olenska O len ska , he repeated , drawing back the message in order to print out the foreign syllables above May's rambling script . 
Hallo , Newland thought I'd catch you here . 
I've just heard of old Mrs. Mingott's stroke and as I was on my way to the house I saw you turning down this street and nipped after you . 
I suppose you've come from there ? Archer nodded , and pushed his telegram under the lattice . 
Very bad , eh ? Lefferts continued . 
Wiring to the family , I suppose . 
I gather it IS bad , if you're including Countess Olenska . 
Archer's lips stiffened he felt a savage impulse to dash his fist into the long vain handsome face at his side . 
Lefferts , who was known to shrink from discussion , raised his eye brows with an ironic grimace that warned the other of the watching damsel behind the lattice . 
Nothing could be worse form the look reminded Archer , than any display of temper in a public place . 
Archer had never been more indifferent to the requirements of form but his impulse to do Lawrence Lefferts a physical injury was only momentary . 
The idea of bandying Ellen Olenska's name with him at such a time , and on whatsoever provocation , was unthinkable . 
He paid for his telegram , and the two young men went out together into the street . 
That afternoon the announcement of the Beaufort failure was in all the papers . 
The whole of New York was darkened by the tale of Beaufort's dishonour . 
were the test of friendship , compassion for her might have tempered the general indignation against her husband . 
Beaufort has always kept a racing stable , and he had better breed trotting horses . 
I should say he had all the qualities of a successful horsedealer . 
Every one agreed with her , but no one condescended to enquire what the Beauforts really meant to do . 
The next day Mrs. Manson Mingott was much better she recovered her voice sufficiently to give orders that no one should mention the Beauforts to her again , and asked when Dr . 
Bencomb appeared what in the world her family meant by making such a fuss about her health . 
But in spite of her firm tone old Catherine did not wholly recover her former attitude toward life . 
Mr. Welland , in particular , had the privilege of attracting her notice . 
had been met with a derisive chuckle . 
Twenty four hours after Madame Olenska's summons a telegram announced that she would arrive from Washington on the evening of the following day . 
Nevertheless , it might appear inhospitable and contrary to old Catherine's express wishes if Madame Olenska were allowed to arrive without any of the family being at the station to receive her . 
It was just like Ellen , Mrs. Welland's tired voice implied , to place the family in such a dilemma . 
Bencomb will admit is this morbid desire to have Ellen come at once , however inconvenient it is to meet her . 
The words had been thoughtless , as the utterances of impatience often are and Mr. Welland was upon them with a pounce . 
But we must never forget that Mamma , in spite of her wonderful vitality , is a very old woman . 
Mr. Welland's brow remained clouded , and it was evident that his perturbed imagination had fastened at once on this last remark . 
Yes your mother's a very old woman and for all we know Bencomb may not be as successful with very old people . 
It's always better to make such a change before it's absolutely necessary . 
And having arrived at this Spartan decision Mr. Welland firmly took up his fork . 
Archer turned from the fascinated contemplation of a small painting representing two Cardinals carousing , in an octagonal ebony frame set with medallions of onyx . 
Shall I fetch her ? he proposed . 
I can easily get away from the office in time to meet the brougham at the ferry , if May will send it there . 
His heart was beating excitedly as he spoke . 
Mrs. Welland heaved a sigh of gratitude , and May , who had moved away to the window , turned to shed on him a beam of approval . 
So you see , Mamma , everything WILL be settled twenty four hours in advance , she said , stooping over to kiss her mother's troubled forehead . 
May's brougham awaited her at the door , and she was to drive Archer to Union Square , where he could pick up a Broadway car to carry him to the office . 
Not going ? Why , what's happened ? Her voice was as clear as a bell , and full of wifely solicitude . 
The case is off postponed . 
You said it was a patent case , didn't you ? Well that's it the whole office can't go . 
Letterblair decided to go this morning . 
It did not hurt him half as much to tell May an untruth as to see her trying to pretend that she had not detected him . 
I'm not going till later on luckily for the convenience of your family , he continued , taking base refuge in sarcasm . 
As he spoke he felt that she was looking at him , and he turned his eyes to hers in order not to appear to be avoiding them . 
Their glances met for a second , and perhaps let them into each other's meanings more deeply than either cared to go . 
Yes it IS awfully convenient , May brightly agreed , that you should be able to meet Ellen after all you saw how much Mamma appreciated your offering to do it . 
Oh , I'm delighted to do it . 
The carriage stopped , and as he jumped out she leaned to him and laid her hand on his . 
Good bye , dearest , she said , her eyes so blue that he wondered afterward if they had shone on him through tears . 
He turned away and hurried across Union Square , repeating to himself , in a sort of inward chant It's all of two hours from Jersey City to old Catherine's . 
It's all of two hours and it may be more . 
met Archer at the ferry , and conveyed him luxuriously to the Pennsylvania terminus in Jersey City . 
It was a sombre snowy afternoon , and the gas lamps were lit in the big reverberating station . 
I don't care which of their visions comes true , Archer mused , as long as the tunnel isn't built yet . 
It was incredible , the number of things he had to say to her , and in what eloquent order they were forming themselves on his lips . 
The clanging and groaning of the train came nearer , and it staggered slowly into the station like a prey laden monster into its lair . 
Archer pushed forward , elbowing through the crowd , and staring blindly into window after window of the high hung carriages . 
And then , suddenly , he saw Madame Olenska's pale and surprised face close at hand , and had again the mortified sensation of having forgotten what she looked like . 
They reached each other , their hands met , and he drew her arm through his . 
This way I have the carriage , he said . 
After that it all happened as he had dreamed . 
If only it doesn't mean poor Granny ! Oh , no , no she's much better she's all right , really . 
There we've passed it ! he exclaimed , as if that made all the difference . 
She disengaged herself with a faint smile , and he said You didn't expect me today ? Oh , no . 
I meant to go to Washington to see you . 
I'd made all my arrangements I very nearly crossed you in the train . 
Oh she exclaimed , as if terrified by the narrowness of their escape . 
Do you know I hardly remembered you ? Hardly remembered me ? I mean how shall I explain ? I it's always so . 
EACH TIME YOU HAPPEN TO ME ALL OVER AGAIN . 
Oh , yes I know ! I know ! Does it do I too to you ? he insisted . 
She nodded , looking out of the window . 
Ellen Ellen Ellen ! She made no answer , and he sat in silence , watching her profile grow indistinct against the snow streaked dusk beyond the window . 
What a pretty carriage ! Is it May's ? she asked , suddenly turning her face from the window . 
In his brief letter to her he had made no allusion to M. Riviere's visit , and his intention had been to bury the incident in his bosom . 
But her reminder that they were in his wife's carriage provoked him to an impulse of retaliation . 
M. Riviere went to see you ? Yes didn't you know ? No , she answered simply . 
And you're not surprised ? She hesitated . 
Why should I be ? He told me in Boston that he knew you that he'd met you in England I think . 
Ellen I must ask you one thing . 
I wanted to ask it after I saw him , but I couldn't put it in a letter . 
It was Riviere who helped you to get away when you left your husband ? His heart was beating suffocatingly . 
Would she meet this question with the same composure ? Yes I owe him a great debt , she answered , without the least tremor in her quiet voice . 
Her tone was so natural , so almost indifferent , that Archer's turmoil subsided . 
Once more she had managed , by her sheer simplicity , to make him feel stupidly conventional just when he thought he was flinging convention to the winds . 
I think you're the most honest woman I ever met ! he exclaimed . 
Oh , no but probably one of the least fussy , she answered , a smile in her voice . 
Call it what you like you look at things as they are . 
I've had to look at the Gorgon . 
Well it hasn't blinded you ! You've seen that she's just an old bogey like all the others . 
She doesn't blind one but she dries up one's tears . 
The answer checked the pleading on Archer's lips it seemed to come from depths of experience beyond his reach . 
The young man , trembling , felt the pressure of her shoulder , and passed his arm about her . 
If you're not blind , then , you must see that this can't last . 
What can't ? Our being together and not together . 
No. You ought not to have come today , she said in an altered voice and suddenly she turned , flung her arms about him and pressed her lips to his . 
At the same moment the carriage began to move , and a gas lamp at the head of the slip flashed its light into the window . 
She drew away , and they sat silent and motionless while the brougham struggled through the congestion of carriages about the ferry landing . 
As they gained the street Archer began to speak hurriedly . 
Don't be afraid of me you needn't squeeze yourself back into your corner like that . 
A stolen kiss isn't what I want . 
Look I'm not even trying to touch the sleeve of your jacket . 
Don't suppose that I don't understand your reasons for not wanting to let this feeling between us dwindle into an ordinary hole and corner love affair . 
I couldn't have spoken like this yesterday , because when we've been apart , and I'm looking forward to seeing you , every thought is burnt up in a great flame . 
No I shan't get out and walk , because my business is to get to Granny's as quickly as I can . 
And you'll sit beside me , and we'll look , not at visions , but at realities . 
I don't know what you mean by realities . 
The only reality to me is this . 
She met the words with a long silence , during which the carriage rolled down an obscure side street and then turned into the searching illumination of Fifth Avenue . 
Is it your idea , then , that I should live with you as your mistress since I can't be your wife ? she asked . 
The crudeness of the question startled him the word was one that women of his class fought shy of , even when their talk flitted closest about the topic . 
Her question pulled him up with a jerk , and he floundered . 
I want I want somehow to get away with you into a world where words like that categories like that won't exist . 
Where we shall be simply two human beings who love each other , who are the whole of life to each other and nothing else on earth will matter . 
She drew a deep sigh that ended in another laugh . 
He had never heard her speak in such a tone , and he remembered the phrase she had used a little while before . 
Yes , the Gorgon HAS dried your tears , he said . 
Well , she opened my eyes too it's a delusion to say that she blinds people . 
What she does is just the contrary she fastens their eyelids open , so that they're never again in the blessed darkness . 
Isn't there a Chinese torture like that ? There ought to be . 
Archer choked with the sense of wasted minutes and vain words . 
Then what , exactly , is your plan for us ? he asked . 
For US ? But there's no US in that sense ! We're near each other only if we stay far from each other . 
Then we can be ourselves . 
Ah , I'm beyond that , he groaned . 
No , you're not ! You've never been beyond . 
And I have , she said , in a strange voice , and I know what it looks like there . 
He sat silent , dazed with inarticulate pain . 
Then he groped in the darkness of the carriage for the little bell that signalled orders to the coachman . 
He remembered that May rang twice when she wished to stop . 
He pressed the bell , and the carriage drew up beside the curbstone . 
Why are we stopping ? This is not Granny's , Madame Olenska exclaimed . 
No I shall get out here , he stammered , opening the door and jumping to the pavement . 
By the light of a street lamp he saw her startled face , and the instinctive motion she made to detain him . 
He closed the door , and leaned for a moment in the window . 
You're right I ought not to have come today , he said , lowering his voice so that the coachman should not hear . 
She bent forward , and seemed about to speak but he had already called out the order to drive on , and the carriage rolled away while he stood on the corner . 
The snow was over , and a tingling wind had sprung up , that lashed his face as he stood gazing . 
Suddenly he felt something stiff and cold on his lashes , and perceived that he had been crying , and that the wind had frozen his tears . 
He thrust his hands in his pockets , and walked at a sharp pace down Fifth Avenue to his own house . 
That evening when Archer came down before dinner he found the drawing room empty . 
He knew that she was at home , for while he dressed he had heard her moving about in her room and he wondered what had delayed her . 
He had fallen into the way of dwelling on such conjectures as a means of tying his thoughts fast to reality . 
When May appeared he thought she looked tired . 
But she shone on him with her usual tenderness , and her eyes had kept the blue dazzle of the day before . 
What became of you , dear ? she asked . 
I was waiting at Granny's , and Ellen came alone , and said she had dropped you on the way because you had to rush off on business . 
There's nothing wrong ? Only some letters I'd forgotten , and wanted to get off before dinner . 
Ah she said and a moment afterward I'm sorry you didn't come to Granny's unless the letters were urgent . 
They were , he rejoined , surprised at her insistence . 
Besides , I don't see why I should have gone to your grandmother's . 
I didn't know you were there . 
She turned and moved to the looking glass above the mantel piece . 
He had called back a cheery Yes ! and then , absorbed in other visions , had forgotten his promise . 
Now he was smitten with compunction , yet irritated that so trifling an omission should be stored up against him after nearly two years of marriage . 
He was weary of living in a perpetual tepid honeymoon , without the temperature of passion yet with all its exactions . 
he might have laughed them away but she was trained to conceal imaginary wounds under a Spartan smile . 
What news ? It seems they're going to stay in New York . 
I believe he's going into an insurance business , or something . 
They're looking about for a small house . 
The preposterousness of the case was beyond discussion , and they went in to dinner . 
During dinner their talk moved in its usual limited circle but Archer noticed that his wife made no allusion to Madame Olenska , nor to old Catherine's reception of her . 
He was thankful for the fact , yet felt it to be vaguely ominous . 
They went up to the library for coffee , and Archer lit a cigar and took down a volume of Michelet . 
Seeing that he had chosen history she fetched her workbasket , drew up an arm chair to the green shaded student lamp , and uncovered a cushion she was embroidering for his sofa . 
She had spent her poetry and romance on their short courting the function was exhausted because the need was past . 
Now she was simply ripening into a copy of her mother , and mysteriously , by the very process , trying to turn him into a Mr. Welland . 
He laid down his book and stood up impatiently and at once she raised her head . 
What's the matter ? The room is stifling I want a little air . 
After he had leaned out into the darkness for a few minutes he heard her say Newland ! Do shut the window . 
He pulled the sash down and turned back . 
Catch my death ! he echoed and he felt like adding But I've caught it already . 
I AM dead I've been dead for months and months . 
And suddenly the play of the word flashed up a wild suggestion . 
He simply felt that chance had given him a new possibility to which his sick soul might cling . 
Yes , May might die people did young people , healthy people like herself she might die , and set him suddenly free . 
She glanced up , and he saw by her widening eyes that there must be something strange in his own . 
Newland ! Are you ill ? He shook his head and turned toward his arm chair . 
She bent over her work frame , and as he passed he laid his hand on her hair . 
Poor May ! he said . 
Poor ? Why poor ? she echoed with a strained laugh . 
Because I shall never be able to open a window without worrying you , he rejoined , laughing also . 
For a moment she was silent then she said very low , her head bowed over her work I shall never worry if you're happy . 
Six or seven days passed . 
Archer heard nothing from Madame Olenska , and became aware that her name would not be mentioned in his presence by any member of the family . 
He did not try to see her to do so while she was at old Catherine's guarded bedside would have been almost impossible . 
The strength of that resolve made it easy to wait and make no sign . 
Then one day May told him that Mrs. Manson Mingott had asked to see him . 
May gave the message with evident pleasure she was proud of old Catherine's appreciation of her husband . 
There was a moment's pause , and then Archer felt it incumbent on him to say All right . 
Shall we go together this afternoon ? His wife's face brightened , but she instantly answered Oh , you'd much better go alone . 
It bores Granny to see the same people too often . 
Archer's heart was beating violently when he rang old Mrs. Mingott's bell . 
He had wanted above all things to go alone , for he felt sure the visit would give him the chance of saying a word in private to the Countess Olenska . 
He had determined to wait till the chance presented itself naturally and here it was , and here he was on the doorstep . 
He wanted only to put one question after that his course would be clear . 
What he wished to ask was simply the date of her return to Washington and that question she could hardly refuse to answer . 
But in the yellow sitting room it was the mulatto maid who waited . 
Her white teeth shining like a keyboard , she pushed back the sliding doors and ushered him into old Catherine's presence . 
The old woman sat in a vast throne like arm chair near her bed . 
Beside her was a mahogany stand bearing a cast bronze lamp with an engraved globe , over which a green paper shade had been balanced . 
Archer saw no trace of the slight distortion left by her stroke . 
She held out one of the little hands that nestled in a hollow of her huge lap like pet animals , and called to the maid Don't let in any one else . 
If my daughters call , say I'm asleep . 
The maid disappeared , and the old lady turned to her grandson . 
My dear , am I perfectly hideous ? she asked gaily , launching out one hand in search of the folds of muslin on her inaccessible bosom . 
It would have spared me all this worry . 
They thought they'd convinced me when the secretary , or whatever he was , came out with the last proposals handsome proposals I confess they were . 
After all , marriage is marriage , and money's money both useful things in their way . 
and I didn't know what to answer She broke off and drew a long breath , as if speaking had become an effort . 
It's not a gay prospect , but she doesn't mind and of course I've told Letterblair that she's to be given her proper allowance . 
The young man heard her with veins aglow but in his confusion of mind he hardly knew whether her news brought joy or pain . 
He had so definitely decided on the course he meant to pursue that for the moment he could not readjust his thoughts . 
But gradually there stole over him the delicious sense of difficulties deferred and opportunities miraculously provided . 
If Ellen had consented to come and live with her grandmother it must surely be because she had recognised the impossibility of giving him up . 
This was her answer to his final appeal of the other day if she would not take the extreme step he had urged , she had at last yielded to half measures . 
He sank back into the thought with the involuntary relief of a man who has been ready to risk everything , and suddenly tastes the dangerous sweetness of security . 
She couldn't have gone back it was impossible ! he exclaimed . 
The family don't want her here , and they'll say it's because I've been ill , because I'm a weak old woman , that she's persuaded me . 
I'm not well enough yet to fight them one by one , and you've got to do it for me . 
Why not ? she jerked back at him , her round eyes suddenly as sharp as pen knives . 
Her hand fluttered from its chair arm and lit on his with a clutch of little pale nails like bird claws . 
Why not ? she searchingly repeated . 
Archer , under the exposure of her gaze , had recovered his self possession . 
Oh , I don't count I'm too insignificant . 
Well , you're Letterblair's partner , ain't you ? You've got to get at them through Letterblair . 
Unless you've got a reason , she insisted . 
Oh , my dear , I back you to hold your own against them all without my help but you shall have it if you need it , he reassured her . 
He winced a little at her terrifying perspicacity , and longed to ask And May do they quote her ? But he judged it safer to turn the question . 
And Madame Olenska ? When am I to see her ? he said . 
The old lady chuckled , crumpled her lids , and went through the pantomime of archness . 
One at a time , please . 
He flushed with disappointment , and she went on She's gone out , my child gone in my carriage to see Regina Beaufort . 
She paused for this announcement to produce its effect . 
That's what she's reduced me to already . 
The day after she got here she put on her best bonnet , and told me , as cool as a cucumber , that she was going to call on Regina Beaufort . 
I don't know her who is she ? says I. She's your grand niece , and a most unhappy woman , she says . 
She's the wife of a scoundrel , I answered . 
Well , she says , and so am I , and yet all my family want me to go back to him . 
After all , Regina's a brave woman , and so is she and I've always liked courage above everything . 
Archer bent down and pressed his lips on the little hand that still lay on his . 
Archer had been stunned by old Catherine's news . 
Archer was sure that Madame Olenska's decision had not been influenced by the change in her financial situation . 
He knew the exact figure of the small income which her husband had allowed her at their separation . 
Yet Archer was convinced that Madame Olenska had not accepted her grandmother's offer from interested motives . 
Moreover , as Archer knew , several months had passed since her allowance had been cut off yet in the interval she had made no effort to regain her grand mother's favour . 
Therefore if she had changed her course it must be for a different reason . 
He did not have far to seek for that reason . 
On the way from the ferry she had told him that he and she must remain apart but she had said it with her head on his breast . 
An hour earlier , when he had rung Mrs. Mingott's bell , Archer had fancied that his path was clear before him . 
In that train he intended to join her , and travel with her to Washington , or as much farther as she was willing to go . 
His own fancy inclined to Japan . 
At any rate she would understand at once that , wherever she went , he was going . 
He meant to leave a note for May that should cut off any other alternative . 
He had fancied himself not only nerved for this plunge but eager to take it yet his first feeling on hearing that the course of events was changed had been one of relief . 
Now , however , as he walked home from Mrs. Mingott's , he was conscious of a growing distaste for what lay before him . 
Now he saw the matter in a new light , and his part in it seemed singularly diminished . 
It was easier , and less dastardly on the whole , for a wife to play such a part toward her husband . 
A woman's standard of truthfulness was tacitly held to be lower she was the subject creature , and versed in the arts of the enslaved . 
But in Archer's little world no one laughed at a wife deceived , and a certain measure of contempt was attached to men who continued their philandering after marriage . 
In the rotation of crops there was a recognised season for wild oats but they were not to be sown more than once . 
Archer had always shared this view in his heart he thought Lefferts despicable . 
But to love Ellen Olenska was not to become a man like Lefferts for the first time Archer found himself face to face with the dread argument of the individual case . 
At his corner he hesitated , and then walked on down Fifth Avenue . 
Ahead of him , in the winter night , loomed a big unlit house . 
As Archer reached the corner he saw that the carriage standing at the door was Mrs. Manson Mingott's . 
But he knew well enough what construction the clubs and drawing rooms would put on Ellen Olenska's visits to her cousin . 
He paused and looked up at the lighted window . 
No doubt the two women were sitting together in that room Beaufort had probably sought consolation elsewhere . 
There were even rumours that he had left New York with Fanny Ring but Mrs. Beaufort's attitude made the report seem improbable . 
Archer had the nocturnal perspective of Fifth Avenue almost to himself . 
At that hour most people were indoors , dressing for dinner and he was secretly glad that Ellen's exit was likely to be unobserved . 
As the thought passed through his mind the door opened , and she came out . 
Behind her was a faint light , such as might have been carried down the stairs to show her the way . 
She turned to say a word to some one then the door closed , and she came down the steps . 
Ellen , he said in a low voice , as she reached the pavement . 
She stopped with a slight start , and just then he saw two young men of fashionable cut approaching . 
They passed under a lamp , and he recognised Lawrence Lefferts and a young Chivers . 
A mean desire not to have Madame Olenska seen at the Beauforts' door vanished as he felt the penetrating warmth of her hand . 
I shall see you now we shall be together , he broke out , hardly knowing what he said . 
It was the kind of masculine solidarity that he himself often practised now he sickened at their connivance . 
She wavered , and moved toward the carriage . 
But I shall be at Granny's for the present that is , she added , as if conscious that her change of plans required some explanation . 
Somewhere where we can be alone , he insisted . 
She gave a faint laugh that grated on him . 
In New York ? But there are no churches . 
There's the Art Museum in the Park , he explained , as she looked puzzled . 
I shall be at the door . 
She turned away without answering and got quickly into the carriage . 
As it drove off she leaned forward , and he thought she waved her hand in the obscurity . 
He stared after her in a turmoil of contradictory feelings . 
She'll come ! he said to himself , almost contemptuously . 
It's odd , Madame Olenska said , I never came here before . 
Some day , I suppose , it will be a great Museum . 
Yes , she assented absently . 
She stood up and wandered across the room . 
His mind , as always when they first met , was wholly absorbed in the delicious details that made her herself and no other . 
Presently he rose and approached the case before which she stood . 
Its glass shelves were crowded with small broken objects hardly recognisable domestic utensils , ornaments and personal trifles made of glass , of clay , of discoloured bronze and other time blurred substances . 
It seems cruel , she said , that after a while nothing matters . 
any more than these little things , that used to be necessary and important to forgotten people , and now have to be guessed at under a magnifying glass and labelled Use unknown . 
Meanwhile everything matters that concerns you , he said . 
She looked at him thoughtfully , and turned back to the divan . 
He sat down beside her and waited but suddenly he heard a step echoing far off down the empty rooms , and felt the pressure of the minutes . 
What is it you wanted to tell me ? she asked , as if she had received the same warning . 
What I wanted to tell you ? he rejoined . 
Why , that I believe you came to New York because you were afraid . 
Afraid ? Of my coming to Washington . 
She looked down at her muff , and he saw her hands stir in it uneasily . 
Well ? Well yes , she said . 
You WERE afraid ? You knew ? Yes I knew . 
Well , then ? he insisted . 
Well , then this is better , isn't it ? she returned with a long questioning sigh . 
Better ? We shall hurt others less . 
I told you the other day what I wanted . 
And you still think this worse ? A thousand times ! He paused . 
It would be easy to lie to you but the truth is I think it detestable . 
Oh , so do I ! she cried with a deep breath of relief . 
The step drew nearer , and a guardian in a braided cap walked listlessly through the room like a ghost stalking through a necropolis . 
They fixed their eyes simultaneously on the case opposite them , and when the official figure had vanished down a vista of mummies and sarcophagi Archer spoke again . 
What do you think better ? Instead of answering she murmured I promised Granny to stay with her because it seemed to me that here I should be safer . 
From me ? She bent her head slightly , without looking at him . 
Safer from loving me ? Her profile did not stir , but he saw a tear overflow on her lashes and hang in a mesh of her veil . 
Safer from doing irreparable harm . 
Don't let us be like all the others ! she protested . 
What others ? I don't profess to be different from my kind . 
I'm consumed by the same wants and the same longings . 
She glanced at him with a kind of terror , and he saw a faint colour steal into her cheeks . 
Shall I once come to you and then go home ? she suddenly hazarded in a low clear voice . 
The blood rushed to the young man's forehead . 
Dearest ! he said , without moving . 
It seemed as if he held his heart in his hands , like a full cup that the least motion might overbrim . 
Then her last phrase struck his ear and his face clouded . 
Go home ? What do you mean by going home ? Home to my husband . 
And you expect me to say yes to that ? She raised her troubled eyes to his . 
What else is there ? I can't stay here and lie to the people who've been good to me . 
It would have been easy to say Yes , come come once . 
He knew the power she would put in his hands if she consented there would be no difficulty then in persuading her not to go back to her husband . 
But something silenced the word on his lips . 
A sort of passionate honesty in her made it inconceivable that he should try to draw her into that familiar trap . 
If I were to let her come , he said to himself , I should have to let her go again . 
And that was not to be imagined . 
But he saw the shadow of the lashes on her wet cheek , and wavered . 
After all , he began again , we have lives of our own . 
There's no use attempting the impossible . 
She stood up also , her lips tightening under a rapid frown . 
Call it that , then I must go , she said , drawing her little watch from her bosom . 
She turned away , and he followed and caught her by the wrist . 
Dearest ! he said again . 
His heart beat with awe he felt that he had never before beheld love visible . 
Oh , I shall be late good bye . 
No , don't come any farther than this , she cried , walking hurriedly away down the long room , as if the reflected radiance in his eyes had frightened her . 
When she reached the door she turned for a moment to wave a quick farewell . 
The parlour maid , hearing his step , ran up the stairs to light the gas on the upper landing . 
Is Mrs. Archer in ? No , sir Mrs. Archer went out in the carriage after luncheon , and hasn't come back . 
With a sense of relief he entered the library and flung himself down in his armchair . 
The parlour maid followed , bringing the student lamp and shaking some coals onto the dying fire . 
When she left he continued to sit motionless , his elbows on his knees , his chin on his clasped hands , his eyes fixed on the red grate . 
He sat there without conscious thoughts , without sense of the lapse of time , in a deep and grave amazement that seemed to suspend life rather than quicken it . 
This was what had to be , then . 
this was what had to be , he kept repeating to himself , as if he hung in the clutch of doom . 
What he had dreamed of had been so different that there was a mortal chill in his rapture . 
The door opened and May came in . 
I'm dreadfully late you weren't worried , were you ? she asked , laying her hand on his shoulder with one of her rare caresses . 
Is it late ? After seven . 
I believe you've been asleep ! She laughed , and drawing out her hat pins tossed her velvet hat on the sofa . 
She looked paler than usual , but sparkling with an unwonted animation . 
I went to see Granny , and just as I was going away Ellen came in from a walk so I stayed and had a long talk with her . 
It was ages since we'd had a real talk . 
She had dropped into her usual armchair , facing his , and was running her fingers through her rumpled hair . 
He fancied she expected him to speak . 
A really good talk , she went on , smiling with what seemed to Archer an unnatural vividness . 
She was so dear just like the old Ellen . 
I'm afraid I haven't been fair to her lately . 
I've sometimes thought Archer stood up and leaned against the mantelpiece , out of the radius of the lamp . 
Yes , you've thought ? he echoed as she paused . 
Well , perhaps I haven't judged her fairly . 
She's so different at least on the surface . 
She takes up such odd people she seems to like to make herself conspicuous . 
I suppose it's the life she's led in that fast European society no doubt we seem dreadfully dull to her . 
But I don't want to judge her unfairly . 
She paused again , a little breathless with the unwonted length of her speech , and sat with her lips slightly parted and a deep blush on her cheeks . 
Archer , as he looked at her , was reminded of the glow which had suffused her face in the Mission Garden at St . 
He became aware of the same obscure effort in her , the same reaching out toward something beyond the usual range of her vision . 
She hates Ellen , he thought , and she's trying to overcome the feeling , and to get me to help her to overcome it . 
The thought moved him , and for a moment he was on the point of breaking the silence between them , and throwing himself on her mercy . 
And now this idea of going to see Mrs. Beaufort , of going there in Granny's carriage ! I'm afraid she's quite alienated the van der Luydens . 
Ah , said Archer with an impatient laugh . 
The open door had closed between them again . 
It's time to dress we're dining out , aren't we ? he asked , moving from the fire . 
She rose also , but lingered near the hearth . 
She flung her arms about his neck and pressed her cheek to his . 
You haven't kissed me today , she said in a whisper and he felt her tremble in his arms . 
At the court of the Tuileries , said Mr. Sillerton Jackson with his reminiscent smile , such things were pretty openly tolerated . 
The scene was the van der Luydens' black walnut dining room in Madison Avenue , and the time the evening after Newland Archer's visit to the Museum of Art . 
Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden had come to town for a few days from Skuytercliff , whither they had precipitately fled at the announcement of Beaufort's failure . 
It had been represented to them that the disarray into which society had been thrown by this deplorable affair made their presence in town more necessary than ever . 
It was one of the occasions when , as Mrs. Archer put it , they owed it to society to show themselves at the Opera , and even to open their own doors . 
It will never do , my dear Louisa , to let people like Mrs. Lemuel Struthers think they can step into Regina's shoes . 
It is just at such times that new people push in and get a footing . 
You and dear Henry , Louisa , must stand in the breach as you always have . 
Archer had not seen his wife since the evening before . 
He had left early for the office , where he had plunged into an accumulation of unimportant business . 
Now , across the Skuytercliff carnations and the massive plate , she struck him as pale and languid but her eyes shone , and she talked with exaggerated animation . 
Is it possible , dear , that what I hear is true ? I was told your grandmother Mingott's carriage was seen standing at Mrs. Beaufort's door . 
It was noticeable that she no longer called the offending lady by her Christian name . 
May's colour rose , and Mrs. Archer put in hastily If it was , I'm convinced it was there without Mrs. Mingott's knowledge . 
Ah , you think ? Mrs. van der Luyden paused , sighed , and glanced at her husband . 
I'm afraid , Mr. van der Luyden said , that Madame Olenska's kind heart may have led her into the imprudence of calling on Mrs. Beaufort . 
Or her taste for peculiar people , put in Mrs. Archer in a dry tone , while her eyes dwelt innocently on her son's . 
I hope , dear Sillerton , said Mrs. Archer , you are not suggesting that we should adopt such standards ? I never suggest , returned Mr. Jackson imperturbably . 
But Madame Olenska's foreign bringing up may make her less particular Ah , the two elder ladies sighed . 
Of course I've always said that she looks at things quite differently , Mrs. Archer summed up . 
A flush rose to May's forehead . 
She looked across the table at her husband , and said precipitately I'm sure Ellen meant it kindly . 
Mr. van der Luyden supplied short ones on Opera nights but they were so good that they made his guests deplore his inexorable punctuality . 
Archer , after the first act , had detached himself from the party and made his way to the back of the club box . 
Archer turned to the stage , where , in the familiar setting of giant roses and pen wiper pansies , the same large blonde victim was succumbing to the same small brown seducer . 
As on that evening , she was all in white and Archer , who had not noticed what she wore , recognised the blue white satin and old lace of her wedding dress . 
The fact seemed an additional appeal to his pity such innocence was as moving as the trustful clasp of a child . 
Then he remembered the passionate generosity latent under that incurious calm . 
Newland Archer was a quiet and self controlled young man . 
Conformity to the discipline of a small society had become almost his second nature . 
It was deeply distasteful to him to do anything melodramatic and conspicuous , anything Mr. van der Luyden would have deprecated and the club box condemned as bad form . 
But he had become suddenly unconscious of the club box , of Mr. van der Luyden , of all that had so long enclosed him in the warm shelter of habit . 
M'ama ! thrilled out the triumphant Marguerite and the occupants of the box looked up in surprise at Archer's entrance . 
He had already broken one of the rules of his world , which forbade the entering of a box during a solo . 
Slipping between Mr. van der Luyden and Sillerton Jackson , he leaned over his wife . 
I've got a beastly headache don't tell any one , but come home , won't you ? he whispered . 
Archer , while he helped her on with her Opera cloak , noticed the exchange of a significant smile between the older ladies . 
As they drove away May laid her hand shyly on his . 
I'm so sorry you don't feel well . 
I'm afraid they've been overworking you again at the office . 
No it's not that do you mind if I open the window ? he returned confusedly , letting down the pane on his side . 
He sat staring out into the street , feeling his wife beside him as a silent watchful interrogation , and keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the passing houses . 
At their door she caught her skirt in the step of the carriage , and fell against him . 
Did you hurt yourself ? he asked , steadying her with his arm . 
No but my poor dress see how I've torn it ! she exclaimed . 
She bent to gather up a mud stained breadth , and followed him up the steps into the hall . 
The servants had not expected them so early , and there was only a glimmer of gas on the upper landing . 
Archer mounted the stairs , turned up the light , and put a match to the brackets on each side of the library mantelpiece . 
The curtains were drawn , and the warm friendly aspect of the room smote him like that of a familiar face met during an unavowable errand . 
He noticed that his wife was very pale , and asked if he should get her some brandy . 
Oh , no , she exclaimed with a momentary flush , as she took off her cloak . 
But hadn't you better go to bed at once ? she added , as he opened a silver box on the table and took out a cigarette . 
Archer threw down the cigarette and walked to his usual place by the fire . 
No my head is not as bad as that . 
And there's something I want to say something important that I must tell you at once . 
She had dropped into an armchair , and raised her head as he spoke . 
Yes , dear ? she rejoined , so gently that he wondered at the lack of wonder with which she received this preamble . 
May he began , standing a few feet from her chair , and looking over at her as if the slight distance between them were an unbridgeable abyss . 
The sound of his voice echoed uncannily through the homelike hush , and he repeated There is something I've got to tell you . 
She sat silent , without a movement or a tremor of her lashes . 
She was still extremely pale , but her face had a curious tranquillity of expression that seemed drawn from some secret inner source . 
Archer checked the conventional phrases of self accusal that were crowding to his lips . 
He was determined to put the case baldly , without vain recrimination or excuse . 
Madame Olenska he said but at the name his wife raised her hand as if to silence him . 
Because I ought to have spoken before . 
Is it really worth while , dear ? I know I've been unfair to her at times perhaps we all have . 
You've understood her , no doubt , better than we did you've always been kind to her . 
But what does it matter , now it's all over ? Archer looked at her blankly . 
May still looked at him with transparent eyes . 
I supposed , he heard his wife's even voice go on , that you had been kept at the office this evening about the business arrangements . 
It was settled this morning , I believe . 
She lowered her eyes under his unseeing stare , and another fugitive flush passed over her face . 
He understood that his own eyes must be unbearable , and turning away , rested his elbows on the mantel shelf and covered his face . 
Something drummed and clanged furiously in his ears he could not tell if it were the blood in his veins , or the tick of the clock on the mantel . 
May sat without moving or speaking while the clock slowly measured out five minutes . 
A lump of coal fell forward in the grate , and hearing her rise to push it back , Archer at length turned and faced her . 
It's impossible , he exclaimed . 
Impossible ? How do you know what you've just told me ? I saw Ellen yesterday I told you I'd seen her at Granny's . 
It wasn't then that she told you ? No I had a note from her this afternoon . 
Do you want to see it ? He could not find his voice , and she went out of the room , and came back almost immediately . 
I thought you knew , she said simply . 
She laid a sheet of paper on the table , and Archer put out his hand and took it up . 
The letter contained only a few lines . 
May dear , I have at last made Granny understand that my visit to her could be no more than a visit and she has been as kind and generous as ever . 
She sees now that if I return to Europe I must live by myself , or rather with poor Aunt Medora , who is coming with me . 
I am hurrying back to Washington to pack up , and we sail next week . 
You must be very good to Granny when I'm gone as good as you've always been to me . 
If any of my friends wish to urge me to change my mind , please tell them it would be utterly useless . 
Archer read the letter over two or three times then he flung it down and burst out laughing . 
The sound of his laugh startled him . 
It recalled Janey's midnight fright when she had caught him rocking with incomprehensible mirth over May's telegram announcing that the date of their marriage had been advanced . 
Why did she write this ? he asked , checking his laugh with a supreme effort . 
May met the question with her unshaken candour . 
I knew you'd been the one friend she could always count on and I wanted her to know that you and I were the same in all our feelings . 
She hesitated , as if waiting for him to speak , and then added slowly She understood my wishing to tell her this . 
I think she understands everything . 
She went up to Archer , and taking one of his cold hands pressed it quickly against her cheek . 
My head aches too good night , dear , she said , and turned to the door , her torn and muddy wedding dress dragging after her across the room . 
It was , as Mrs. Archer smilingly said to Mrs. Welland , a great event for a young couple to give their first big dinner . 
The Newland Archers , since they had set up their household , had received a good deal of company in an informal way . 
Archer was fond of having three or four friends to dine , and May welcomed them with the beaming readiness of which her mother had set her the example in conjugal affairs . 
It was expected that well off young couples in New York should do a good deal of informal entertaining , and a Welland married to an Archer was doubly pledged to the tradition . 
It was always an interesting occasion when a young pair launched their first invitations in the third person , and their summons was seldom refused even by the seasoned and sought after . 
Archer , arriving late from his office , found them still there . 
On the piano stood a large basket of orchids which Mr. van der Luyden had had sent from Skuytercliff . 
Everything was , in short , as it should be on the approach of so considerable an event . 
Mrs. Archer ran thoughtfully over the list , checking off each name with her sharp gold pen . 
the Selfridge Merrys , Sillerton Jackson , Van Newland and his wife . 
and Countess Olenska yes , I think that's all . 
Mrs. Welland surveyed her son in law affectionately . 
No one can say , Newland , that you and May are not giving Ellen a handsome send off . 
Ah , well , said Mrs. Archer , I understand May's wanting her cousin to tell people abroad that we're not quite barbarians . 
I'm sure Ellen will appreciate it . 
She was to arrive this morning , I believe . 
It will make a most charming last impression . 
The evening before sailing is usually so dreary , Mrs. Welland cheerfully continued . 
Archer turned toward the door , and his mother in law called to him Do go in and have a peep at the table . 
And don't let May tire herself too much . 
But he affected not to hear , and sprang up the stairs to his library . 
Ah , well , he thought , it's not for long and he went on to his dressing room . 
Ten days had passed since Madame Olenska's departure from New York . 
This retort to his last appeal might have been interpreted as a classic move in a familiar game but the young man chose to give it a different meaning . 
She was still fighting against her fate but she was going to Europe , and she was not returning to her husband . 
This confidence in the future had steadied him to play his part in the present . 
It had kept him from writing to her , or betraying , by any sign or act , his misery and mortification . 
It seemed to him that in the deadly silent game between them the trumps were still in his hands and he waited . 
Well , the lady can't deny that it's a handsome arrangement , Mr. Letterblair had summed up , after mumbling over a summary of the settlement . 
In fact I'm bound to say she's been treated pretty handsomely all round . 
All round ? Archer echoed with a touch of derision . 
Do you refer to her husband's proposal to give her back her own money ? Mr. Letterblair's bushy eyebrows went up a fraction of an inch . 
My dear sir , the law's the law and your wife's cousin was married under the French law . 
It's to be presumed she knew what that meant . 
Even if she did , what happened subsequently . 
My dear sir , I've no wish to extenuate the Count's transgressions but but on the other side . 
I wouldn't put my hand in the fire . 
well , that there hadn't been tit for tat . 
Mr. Letterblair unlocked a drawer and pushed a folded paper toward Archer . 
This report , the result of discreet enquiries . 
and on the whole it's eminently satisfactory for all parties that this dignified solution has been reached . 
Oh , eminently , Archer assented , pushing back the paper . 
A day or two later , on responding to a summons from Mrs. Manson Mingott , his soul had been more deeply tried . 
He had found the old lady depressed and querulous . 
You know she's deserted me ? she began at once and without waiting for his reply Oh , don't ask me why ! She gave so many reasons that I've forgotten them all . 
My private belief is that she couldn't face the boredom . 
At any rate that's what Augusta and my daughters in law think . 
And I don't know that I altogether blame her . 
Olenski's a finished scoundrel but life with him must have been a good deal gayer than it is in Fifth Avenue . 
Not that the family would admit that they think Fifth Avenue is Heaven with the rue de la Paix thrown in . 
And poor Ellen , of course , has no idea of going back to her husband . 
She held out as firmly as ever against that . 
So she's to settle down in Paris with that fool Medora . 
Well , Paris is Paris and you can keep a carriage there on next to nothing . 
But she was as gay as a bird , and I shall miss her . 
Two tears , the parched tears of the old , rolled down her puffy cheeks and vanished in the abysses of her bosom . 
All I ask is , she concluded , that they shouldn't bother me any more . 
I must really be allowed to digest my gruel . 
And she twinkled a little wistfully at Archer . 
It was that evening , on his return home , that May announced her intention of giving a farewell dinner to her cousin . 
Madame Olenska's name had not been pronounced between them since the night of her flight to Washington and Archer looked at his wife with surprise . 
A dinner why ? he interrogated . 
But you like Ellen I thought you'd be pleased . 
It's awfully nice your putting it in that way . 
But I really don't see I mean to do it , Newland , she said , quietly rising and going to her desk . 
Here are the invitations all written . 
Mother helped me she agrees that we ought to . 
She paused , embarrassed and yet smiling , and Archer suddenly saw before him the embodied image of the Family . 
Oh , all right , he said , staring with unseeing eyes at the list of guests that she had put in his hand . 
When he entered the drawing room before dinner May was stooping over the fire and trying to coax the logs to burn in their unaccustomed setting of immaculate tiles . 
The tall lamps were all lit , and Mr. van der Luyden's orchids had been conspicuously disposed in various receptacles of modern porcelain and knobby silver . 
Mrs. Newland Archer's drawing room was generally thought a great success . 
I don't think Ellen has ever seen this room lighted up , said May , rising flushed from her struggle , and sending about her a glance of pardonable pride . 
The other guests quickly followed , for it was known that the van der Luydens liked to dine punctually . 
She was excessively pale , and her pallor made her dark hair seem denser and heavier than ever . 
It was only at an entertainment ostensibly offered to a foreign visitor that Mrs. van der Luyden could suffer the diminution of being placed on her host's left . 
As these thoughts succeeded each other in his mind Archer felt like a prisoner in the centre of an armed camp . 
He laughed , and met Mrs. van der Luyden's startled eyes . 
You think it laughable ? she said with a pinched smile . 
Of course poor Regina's idea of remaining in New York has its ridiculous side , I suppose and Archer muttered Of course . 
At this point , he became conscious that Madame Olenska's other neighbour had been engaged for some time with the lady on his right . 
At the same moment he saw that May , serenely enthroned between Mr. van der Luyden and Mr. Selfridge Merry , had cast a quick glance down the table . 
It was evident that the host and the lady on his right could not sit through the whole meal in silence . 
He turned to Madame Olenska , and her pale smile met him . 
Oh , do let's see it through , it seemed to say . 
Except , you know , the dreadful heat in the train , she added and he remarked that she would not suffer from that particular hardship in the country she was going to . 
I never , he declared with intensity , was more nearly frozen than once , in April , in the train between Calais and Paris . 
She changed colour , and he added , his voice suddenly rising in pitch I mean to do a lot of travelling myself before long . 
Bencomb for having made them promise not to go to Naples on account of the fever . 
But you must have three weeks to do India properly , her husband conceded , anxious to have it understood that he was no frivolous globe trotter . 
And at this point the ladies went up to the drawing room . 
In the library , in spite of weightier presences , Lawrence Lefferts predominated . 
Never had Lefferts so abounded in the sentiments that adorn Christian manhood and exalt the sanctity of the home . 
The people who have the worst cooks are always telling you they're poisoned when they dine out . 
But I hear there are pressing reasons for our friend Lawrence's diatribe typewriter this time , I understand . 
The talk swept past Archer like some senseless river running and running because it did not know enough to stop . 
He saw , on the faces about him , expressions of interest , amusement and even mirth . 
He listened to the younger men's laughter , and to the praise of the Archer Madeira , which Mr. van der Luyden and Mr. Merry were thoughtfully celebrating . 
In the drawing room , where they presently joined the ladies , he met May's triumphant eyes , and read in them the conviction that everything had gone off beautifully . 
She rose from Madame Olenska's side , and immediately Mrs. van der Luyden beckoned the latter to a seat on the gilt sofa where she throned . 
Mrs. Selfridge Merry bore across the room to join them , and it became clear to Archer that here also a conspiracy of rehabilitation and obliteration was going on . 
He caught the glitter of victory in his wife's eyes , and for the first time understood that she shared the belief . 
At length he saw that Madame Olenska had risen and was saying good bye . 
She went up to May , the rest of the company making a circle about her as she advanced . 
The two young women clasped hands then May bent forward and kissed her cousin . 
Certainly our hostess is much the handsomer of the two , Archer heard Reggie Chivers say in an undertone to young Mrs. Newland and he remembered Beaufort's coarse sneer at May's ineffectual beauty . 
A moment later he was in the hall , putting Madame Olenska's cloak about her shoulders . 
Through all his confusion of mind he had held fast to the resolve to say nothing that might startle or disturb her . 
Convinced that no power could now turn him from his purpose he had found strength to let events shape themselves as they would . 
But as he followed Madame Olenska into the hall he thought with a sudden hunger of being for a moment alone with her at the door of her carriage . 
Is your carriage here ? he asked and at that moment Mrs. van der Luyden , who was being majestically inserted into her sables , said gently We are driving dear Ellen home . 
Archer's heart gave a jerk , and Madame Olenska , clasping her cloak and fan with one hand , held out the other to him . 
Good bye , she said . 
Good bye but I shall see you soon in Paris , he answered aloud it seemed to him that he had shouted it . 
Oh , she murmured , if you and May could come ! Mr. van der Luyden advanced to give her his arm , and Archer turned to Mrs. van der Luyden . 
For a moment , in the billowy darkness inside the big landau , he caught the dim oval of a face , eyes shining steadily and she was gone . 
As he went up the steps he crossed Lawrence Lefferts coming down with his wife . 
Lefferts caught his host by the sleeve , drawing back to let Gertrude pass . 
It DID go off beautifully , didn't it ? May questioned from the threshold of the library . 
Archer roused himself with a start . 
But there she stood , pale and drawn , yet radiating the factitious energy of one who has passed beyond fatigue . 
May I come and talk it over ? she asked . 
Of course , if you like . 
But you must be awfully sleepy No , I'm not sleepy . 
I should like to sit with you a little . 
Very well , he said , pushing her chair near the fire . 
She sat down and he resumed his seat but neither spoke for a long time . 
At length Archer began abruptly Since you're not tired , and want to talk , there's something I must tell you . 
I tried to the other night . 
She looked at him quickly . 
Something about yourself ? About myself . 
You say you're not tired well , I am . 
In an instant she was all tender anxiety . 
Oh , I've seen it coming on , Newland ! You've been so wickedly overworked Perhaps it's that . 
Anyhow , I want to make a break A break ? To give up the law ? To go away , at any rate at once . 
Do what he would , the chord of eagerness vibrated . 
Away from everything he repeated . 
Ever so far ? Where , for instance ? she asked . 
Oh , I don't know . 
She stood up , and as he sat with bent head , his chin propped on his hands , he felt her warmly and fragrantly hovering over him . 
As far as that ? But I'm afraid you can't , dear . 
she said in an unsteady voice . 
Not unless you'll take me with you . 
but I'm afraid they won't . 
Oh , my dear , he said , holding her to him while his cold hand stroked her hair . 
There was a long pause , which the inner devils filled with strident laughter then May freed herself from his arms and stood up . 
You didn't guess ? Yes I no . 
She paused , and then added hurriedly , the blood flushing up to her forehead That is and Ellen . 
You know I told you we'd had a long talk one afternoon and how dear she was to me . 
Ah said Archer , his heart stopping . 
He felt that his wife was watching him intently . 
Did you MIND my telling her first , Newland ? Mind ? Why should I ? He made a last effort to collect himself . 
But that was a fortnight ago , wasn't it ? I thought you said you weren't sure till today . 
Her colour burned deeper , but she held his gaze . 
No I wasn't sure then but I told her I was . 
And you see I was right ! she exclaimed , her blue eyes wet with victory . 
Newland Archer sat at the writing table in his library in East Thirty ninth Street . 
It was the room in which most of the real things of his life had happened . 
The young men nowadays were emancipating themselves from the law and business and taking up all sorts of new things . 
Nobody nowadays had Colonial houses except the millionaire grocers of the suburbs . 
If the stable's ever to be cleaned out , men like you have got to lend a hand in the cleaning . 
He had been , in short , what people were beginning to call a good citizen . 
In New York , for many years past , every new movement , philanthropic , municipal or artistic , had taken account of his opinion and wanted his name . 
His days were full , and they were filled decently . 
He supposed it was all a man ought to ask . 
Something he knew he had missed the flower of life . 
But he thought of it now as a thing so unattainable and improbable that to have repined would have been like despairing because one had not drawn the first prize in a lottery . 
There were a hundred million tickets in HIS lottery , and there was only one prize the chances had been too decidedly against him . 
That vision , faint and tenuous as it was , had kept him from thinking of other women . 
Looking about him , he honoured his own past , and mourned for it . 
After all , there was good in the old ways . 
There she was , tall , round bosomed and willowy , in her starched muslin and flapping Leghorn , as he had seen her under the orange trees in the Mission garden . 
This hard bright blindness had kept her immediate horizon apparently unaltered . 
would transmit the sacred trust to little Bill . 
And of Mary she was sure as of her own self . 
So , having snatched little Bill from the grave , and given her life in the effort , she went contentedly to her place in the Archer vault in St . 
Mark's , where Mrs. Archer already lay safe from the terrifying trend which her daughter in law had never even become aware of . 
Opposite May's portrait stood one of her daughter . 
Mary Chivers was as tall and fair as her mother , but large waisted , flat chested and slightly slouching , as the altered fashion required . 
Mary Chivers's mighty feats of athleticism could not have been performed with the twenty inch waist that May Archer's azure sash so easily spanned . 
And the difference seemed symbolic the mother's life had been as closely girt as her figure . 
Mary , who was no less conventional , and no more intelligent , yet led a larger life and held more tolerant views . 
There was good in the new order too . 
The telephone clicked , and Archer , turning from the photographs , unhooked the transmitter at his elbow . 
How far they were from the days when the legs of the brass buttoned messenger boy had been New York's only means of quick communication ! Chicago wants you . 
The firm always sent Dallas on such errands . 
Hallo , Dad Yes Dallas . 
I say how do you feel about sailing on Wednesday ? Mauretania Yes , next Wednesday as ever is . 
Our client wants me to look at some Italian gardens before we settle anything , and has asked me to nip over on the next boat . 
I've got to be back on the first of June the voice broke into a joyful conscious laugh so we must look alive . 
I say , Dad , I want your help do come . 
Dallas seemed to be speaking in the room the voice was as near by and natural as if he had been lounging in his favourite arm chair by the fire . 
The fact would not ordinarily have surprised Archer , for long distance telephoning had become as much a matter of course as electric lighting and five day Atlantic voyages . 
The voice began again Think it over ? No , sir not a minute . 
You've got to say yes now . 
Why not , I'd like to know ? If you can allege a single reason No I knew it . 
Then it's a go , eh ? Because I count on you to ring up the Cunard office first thing tomorrow and you'd better book a return on a boat from Marseilles . 
I say , Dad it'll be our last time together , in this kind of way . 
Oh , good ! I knew you would . 
Chicago rang off , and Archer rose and began to pace up and down the room . 
It would be their last time together in this kind of way the boy was right . 
On the contrary , from what he had seen of her , he thought she would be naturally included in it . 
There was no reason why he should not seize it , except the profound one that he had lost the habit of travel . 
After Dallas had taken his degree she had thought it her duty to travel for six months and the whole family had made the old fashioned tour through England , Switzerland and Italy . 
Archer remembered Dallas's wrath at being asked to contemplate Mont Blanc instead of Rheims and Chartres . 
She had indeed proposed that her husband should go to Paris for a fortnight , and join them on the Italian lakes after they had done Switzerland but Archer had declined . 
We'll stick together , he said and May's face had brightened at his setting such a good example to Dallas . 
Since her death , nearly two years before , there had been no reason for his continuing in the same routine . 
His children had urged him to travel Mary Chivers had felt sure it would do him good to go abroad and see the galleries . 
The very mysteriousness of such a cure made her the more confident of its efficacy . 
But Archer had found himself held fast by habit , by memories , by a sudden startled shrinking from new things . 
Now , as he reviewed his past , he saw into what a deep rut he had sunk . 
The worst of doing one's duty was that it apparently unfitted one for doing anything else . 
At least that was the view that the men of his generation had taken . 
The trenchant divisions between right and wrong , honest and dishonest , respectable and the reverse , had left so little scope for the unforeseen . 
There are moments when a man's imagination , so easily subdued to what it lives in , suddenly rises above its daily level , and surveys the long windings of destiny . 
Archer hung there and wondered . 
It was just what Archer's eldest son , the pride of his life , was doing and nobody wondered or reproved . 
The fact threw her into almost cousinly relationship with Newland Archer's children , and nobody was surprised when Dallas's engagement was announced . 
Nothing could more dearly give the measure of the distance that the world had travelled . 
People nowadays were too busy busy with reforms and movements , with fads and fetishes and frivolities to bother much about their neighbours . 
It was long since it had thus plunged and reared under his widening waistcoat , leaving him , the next minute , with an empty breast and hot temples . 
He wondered if it was thus that his son's conducted itself in the presence of Miss Fanny Beaufort and decided that it was not . 
The difference is that these young people take it for granted that they're going to get whatever they want , and that we almost always took it for granted that we shouldn't . 
Oh , all right of course , Dallas good naturedly agreed . 
Dallas's hand came down cheerily on his shoulder . 
Archer looked at him , and thought he saw in his gay young eyes a gleam of his great grandmother Mingott's malice . 
Oh , didn't I tell you ? Dallas pursued . 
Fanny made me swear to do three things while I was in Paris get her the score of the last Debussy songs , go to the Grand Guignol and see Madame Olenska . 
You know she was awfully good to Fanny when Mr. Beaufort sent her over from Buenos Ayres to the Assomption . 
Fanny hadn't any friends in Paris , and Madame Olenska used to be kind to her and trot her about on holidays . 
I believe she was a great friend of the first Mrs. Beaufort's . 
And she's our cousin , of course . 
So I rang her up this morning , before I went out , and told her you and I were here for two days and wanted to see her . 
Archer continued to stare at him . 
You told her I was here ? Of course why not ? Dallas's eye brows went up whimsically . 
Then , getting no answer , he slipped his arm through his father's with a confidential pressure . 
I say , father what was she like ? Archer felt his colour rise under his son's unabashed gaze . 
Come , own up you and she were great pals , weren't you ? Wasn't she most awfully lovely ? Lovely ? I don't know . 
Ah there you have it ! That's what it always comes to , doesn't it ? When she comes , SHE'S DIFFERENT and one doesn't know why . 
It's exactly what I feel about Fanny . 
His father drew back a step , releasing his arm . 
He was the first born of Newland and May Archer , yet it had never been possible to inculcate in him even the rudiments of reserve . 
What's the use of making mysteries ? It only makes people want to nose 'em out , he always objected when enjoined to discretion . 
But Archer , meeting his eyes , saw the filial light under their banter . 
My Fanny ? Well , the woman you'd have chucked everything for only you didn't , continued his surprising son . 
I didn't , echoed Archer with a kind of solemnity . 
No you date , you see , dear old boy . 
But mother said Your mother ? Yes the day before she died . 
Archer received this strange communication in silence . 
His eyes remained unseeingly fixed on the thronged sunlit square below the window . 
At length he said in a low voice She never asked me . 
You never did ask each other anything , did you ? And you never told each other anything . 
You just sat and watched each other , and guessed at what was going on underneath . 
I say , Dad , Dallas broke off , you're not angry with me ? If you are , let's make it up and go and lunch at Henri's . 
I've got to rush out to Versailles afterward . 
Archer did not accompany his son to Versailles . 
He preferred to spend the afternoon in solitary roamings through Paris . 
He had to deal all at once with the packed regrets and stifled memories of an inarticulate lifetime . 
After a little while he did not regret Dallas's indiscretion . 
It seemed to take an iron band from his heart to know that , after all , some one had guessed and pitied . 
And that it should have been his wife moved him indescribably . 
Dallas , for all his affectionate insight , would not have understood that . 
To the boy , no doubt , the episode was only a pathetic instance of vain frustration , of wasted forces . 
But was it really no more ? For a long time Archer sat on a bench in the Champs Elysees and wondered , while the stream of life rolled by . 
A few streets away , a few hours away , Ellen Olenska waited . 
She had never gone back to her husband , and when he had died , some years before , she had made no change in her way of living . 
There was nothing now to keep her and Archer apart and that afternoon he was to see her . 
He got up and walked across the Place de la Concorde and the Tuileries gardens to the Louvre . 
After all , his life had been too starved . 
Suddenly , before an effulgent Titian , he found himself saying But I'm only fifty seven and then he turned away . 
For such summer dreams it was too late but surely not for a quiet harvest of friendship , of comradeship , in the blessed hush of her nearness . 
Dallas , unconscious of what was going on in his father's mind , was talking excitedly and abundantly of Versailles . 
As Archer listened , his sense of inadequacy and inexpressiveness increased . 
The boy was not insensitive , he knew but he had the facility and self confidence that came of looking at fate not as a master but as an equal . 
Suddenly Dallas stopped short , grasping his father's arm . 
Oh , by Jove , he exclaimed . 
They had come out into the great tree planted space before the Invalides . 
Now , by some queer process of association , that golden light became for him the pervading illumination in which she lived . 
During that time he had been living with his youthful memory of her but she had doubtless had other and more tangible companionship . 
They had crossed the Place des Invalides , and were walking down one of the thoroughfares flanking the building . 
Dallas stopped again , and looked up . 
It must be here , he said , slipping his arm through his father's with a movement from which Archer's shyness did not shrink and they stood together looking up at the house . 
It was a modern building , without distinctive character , but many windowed , and pleasantly balconied up its wide cream coloured front . 
I wonder which floor ? Dallas conjectured and moving toward the porte cochere he put his head into the porter's lodge , and came back to say The fifth . 
It must be the one with the awnings . 
Archer remained motionless , gazing at the upper windows as if the end of their pilgrimage had been attained . 
I say , you know , it's nearly six , his son at length reminded him . 
The father glanced away at an empty bench under the trees . 
I believe I'll sit there a moment , he said . 
Why aren't you well ? his son exclaimed . 
But I should like you , please , to go up without me . 
Dallas paused before him , visibly bewildered . 
But , I say , Dad do you mean you won't come up at all ? I don't know , said Archer slowly . 
If you don't she won't understand . 
Go , my boy perhaps I shall follow you . 
Dallas gave him a long look through the twilight . 
But what on earth shall I say ? My dear fellow , don't you always know what to say ? his father rejoined with a smile . 
I shall say you're old fashioned , and prefer walking up the five flights because you don't like lifts . 
Say I'm old fashioned that's enough . 
Dallas looked at him again , and then , with an incredulous gesture , passed out of sight under the vaulted doorway . 
Archer sat down on the bench and continued to gaze at the awninged balcony . 
He pictured Dallas entering that room with his quick assured step and his delightful smile , and wondered if the people were right who said that his boy took after him . 
He thought she would be sitting in a sofa corner near the fire , with azaleas banked behind her on a table . 
He sat for a long time on the bench in the thickening dusk , his eyes never turning from the balcony . 
At length a light shone through the windows , and a moment later a man servant came out on the balcony , drew up the awnings , and closed the shutters . 
At that , as if it had been the signal he waited for , Newland Archer got up slowly and walked back alone to his hotel . 
A Note on the Text The Age of Innocence first appeared in four large installments in The Pictorial Review , from July to October . 
It was published that same year in book form by D. Appleton and Company in New York and in London . 
