Tanglewood Tales by Nathaniel Hawthorne This extext was scanned by Dianne Bean of Chino Valley , AZ , with OmniPage Professional software donated by Caere . 
TANGLEWOOD TALES by NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE THE WAYSIDE . 
A short time ago , I was favored with a flying visit from my young friend Eustace Bright , whom I had not before met with since quitting the breezy mountains of Berkshire . 
It delighted me to receive Mr. Bright , for the first time , under a roof , though a very humble one , which I could really call my own . 
But to me there is a peculiar , quiet charm in these broad meadows and gentle eminences . 
They are better than mountains , because they do not stamp and stereotype themselves into the brain , and thus grow wearisome with the same strong impression , repeated day after day . 
I doubt whether Eustace did not internally pronounce the whole thing a bore , until I led him to my predecessor's little ruined , rustic summer house , midway on the hillside . 
Simple as it looks , said he , this little edifice seems to be the work of magic . 
It is full of suggestiveness , and , in its way , is as good as a cathedral . 
Are they as good as the first ? I inquired . 
Better chosen , and better handled , replied Eustace Bright . 
You will say so when you read them . 
Possibly not , I remarked . 
I know from my own experience , that an author's last work is always his best one , in his own estimate , until it quite loses the red heat of composition . 
After that , it falls into its true place , quietly enough . 
But let us adjourn to my study , and examine these new stories . 
It will be remembered that Mr. Bright condescended to avail himself of my literary experience by constituting me editor of the Wonder Book . 
I was not insensible to the advantages of his proposal , and gladly assured him of my acceptance . 
had enabled him to take full advantage of whatever capabilities they offered . 
The objectionable characteristics seem to be a parasitical growth , having no essential connection with the original fable . 
transform themselves , and re assume the shapes which they might be supposed to possess in the pure childhood of the world . 
, it was still the Golden Age . 
I let the youthful author talk as much and as extravagantly as he pleased , and was glad to see him commencing life with such confidence in himself and his performances . 
A few years will do all that is necessary towards showing him the truth in both respects . 
His auditors were even more delighted with the contents of the present volume than with the specimens which have already been given to the world . 
They are all , I am happy to say , in excellent health and spirits . 
Primrose is now almost a young lady , and , Eustace tells me , is just as saucy as ever . 
Periwinkle is very much grown , and is expected to shut up her baby house and throw away her doll in a month or two more . 
Sweet Fern has learned to read and write , and has put on a jacket and pair of pantaloons all of which improvements I am sorry for . 
Squash Blossom , Blue Eye , Plantain , and Buttercup have had the scarlet fever , but came easily through it . 
Huckleberry , Milkweed , and Dandelion were attacked with the whooping cough , but bore it bravely , and kept out of doors whenever the sun shone . 
Cowslip , during the autumn , had either the measles , or some eruption that looked very much like it , but was hardly sick a day . 
But all this will pass over , and it is predicted that she will turn out a very pretty girl . 
As for Mr. Bright himself , he is now in his senior year at Williams College , and has a prospect of graduating with some degree of honorable distinction at the next Commencement . 
If so I shall be very sorry for the little that I have had to do with the matter , in encouraging these first beginnings . 
Heaven bless them , and everybody else , whether grown people or children ! THE MINOTAUR . 
In the old city of Troezene , at the foot of a lofty mountain , there lived , a very long time ago , a little boy named Theseus . 
His mother's name was Aethra . 
As for his father , the boy had never seen him . 
Theseus was very fond of hearing about King Aegeus , and often asked his good mother Aethra why he did not come and live with them at Troezene . 
Ah , my dear son , answered Aethra , with a sigh , a monarch has his people to take care of . 
The men and women over whom he rules are in the place of children to him and he can seldom spare time to love his own children as other parents do . 
Your father will never be able to leave his kingdom for the sake of seeing his little boy . 
Be patient , and we shall see . 
You are not yet big and strong enough to set out on such an errand . 
And how soon shall I be strong enough ? Theseus persisted in inquiring . 
You are but a tiny boy as yet , replied his mother . 
See if you can lift this rock on which we are sitting ? The little fellow had a great opinion of his own strength . 
So , grasping the rough protuberances of the rock , he tugged and toiled amain , and got himself quite out of breath , without being able to stir the heavy stone . 
It seemed to be rooted into the ground . 
No wonder he could not move it for it would have taken all the force of a very strong man to lift it out of its earthy bed . 
His mother stood looking on , with a sad kind of a smile on her lips and in her eyes , to see the zealous and yet puny efforts of her little boy . 
She could not help being sorrowful at finding him already so impatient to begin his adventures in the world . 
You see how it is , my dear Theseus , said she . 
You must possess far more strength than now before I can trust you to go to Athens , and tell King Aegeus that you are his son . 
But when you can lift this rock , and show me what is hidden beneath it , I promise you my permission to depart . 
Meanwhile the rock seemed to be sinking farther and farther into the ground . 
The moss grew over it thicker and thicker , until at last it looked almost like a soft green seat , with only a few gray knobs of granite peeping out . 
To all appearance , the rock was as firmly fastened as any other portion of the earth's substance . 
Mother , I do believe it has started ! cried he , after one of his attempts . 
The earth around it is certainly a little cracked ! No , no , child ! his mother hastily answered . 
It was not more than a year afterwards when they were again sitting on the moss covered stone . 
The eyes of Theseus glowed with enthusiasm , and he would hardly sit still to hear his mother speak . 
He put his whole brave heart into the effort . 
He wrestled with the big and sluggish stone , as if it had been a living enemy . 
The great rock stirred ! Yes , it was raised slowly from the bedded moss and earth , uprooting the shrubs and flowers along with it , and was turned upon its side . 
Theseus had conquered ! While taking breath , he looked joyfully at his mother , and she smiled upon him through her tears . 
Within the cavity lay a sword , with a golden hilt , and a pair of sandals . 
That was your father's sword , said Aethra , and those were his sandals . 
When he went to be king of Athens , he bade me treat you as a child until you should prove yourself a man by lifting this heavy stone . 
I will set out for Athens this very day ! cried Theseus . 
But his mother persuaded him to stay a day or two longer , while she got ready some necessary articles for his journey . 
The roads are very bad by land , quoth the venerable king and they are terribly infested with robbers and monsters . 
A mere lad , like Theseus , is not fit to be trusted on such a perilous journey , all by himself . 
No , no let him go by sea . 
But he let the sun and wind dry them , and walked stoutly on , playing with the golden hilt of his sword , and taking very manly strides in his father's sandals . 
I cannot stop to tell you hardly any of the adventures that befell Theseus on the road to Athens . 
It is enough to say , that he quite cleared that part of the country of the robbers about whom King Pittheus had been so much alarmed . 
Thus , however weary a man might be , he never liked to lie in the bed of Procrustes . 
Another of these robbers , named Scinis , must likewise have been a very great scoundrel . 
His fame traveled faster than he did , and reached Athens before him . 
Yet this was the truth . 
His nephews , not expecting him to live a very great while , intended to get all the power of the kingdom into their own hands . 
Thus these bad hearted nephews of King Aegeus , who were the own cousins of Theseus , at once became his enemies . 
It so happened that the king's nephews met Theseus , and found out who he was , just as he reached the entrance of the royal palace . 
With all their evil designs against him , they pretended to be their cousin's best friends , and expressed great joy at making his . 
Theseus consented for he fancied that his father would know him in a moment , by the love that was in his heart . 
And he is now waiting for admission to your majesty's presence , added they . 
Aha ! cried the old king , on hearing this . 
As I have already told you , she was a famous enchantress . 
This chariot , in fact , was the vehicle that first brought her to Athens , where she had done nothing but mischief ever since her arrival . 
So , when the king asked what he should do with Theseus , this naughty woman had an answer ready at her tongue's end . 
Leave that to me , please your majesty , she replied . 
Only admit this evil minded young man to your presence , treat him civilly , and invite him to drink a goblet of wine . 
Your majesty is well aware that I sometimes amuse myself by distilling very powerful medicines . 
Here is one of them in this small phial . 
As to what it is made of , that is one of my secrets of state . 
As she said this , Medea smiled but , for all her smiling face , she meant nothing less than to poison the poor innocent Theseus , before his father's eyes . 
And King Aegeus , like most other kings , thought any punishment mild enough for a person who was accused of plotting against his life . 
He therefore made little or no objection to Medea's scheme , and as soon as the poisonous wine was ready , gave orders that the young stranger should be admitted into his presence . 
The goblet was set on a table beside the king's throne and a fly , meaning just to sip a little from the brim , immediately tumbled into it , dead . 
Observing this , Medea looked round at the nephews , and smiled again . 
When Theseus was ushered into the royal apartment , the only object that he seemed to behold was the white bearded old king . 
There he sat on his magnificent throne , a dazzling crown on his head , and a scepter in his hand . 
When a son takes a father into his warm heart it renews the old man's youth in a better way than by the heat of Medea's magic caldron . 
And this was what Theseus resolved to do . 
He could scarcely wait to see whether King Aegeus would recognize him , so eager was he to throw himself into his arms . 
Advancing to the foot of the throne , he attempted to make a little speech , which he had been thinking about , as he came up the stairs . 
But he was almost choked by a great many tender feelings that gushed out of his heart and swelled into his throat , all struggling to find utterance together . 
And therefore , unless he could have laid his full , over brimming heart into the king's hand , poor Theseus knew not what to do or say . 
The cunning Medea observed what was passing in the young man's mind . 
she did her worst to turn all this unspeakable love with which Theseus was agitated to his own ruin and destruction . 
Does your majesty see his confusion ? she whispered in the king's ear . 
He is so conscious of guilt , that he trembles and cannot speak . 
The wretch lives too long ! Quick ! offer him the wine ! Now King Aegeus had been gazing earnestly at the young stranger , as he drew near the throne . 
The enchantress again whispered in the king's ear , and compelled him , by her witchcraft , to see everything under a false aspect . 
He made up his mind , therefore , to let Theseus drink off the poisoned wine . 
Young man , said he , you are welcome ! I am proud to show hospitality to so heroic a youth . 
Do me the favor to drink the contents of this goblet . 
But , partly through his infirmities , and partly because it seemed so sad a thing to take away this young man's life . 
How sharp , and bright , and terrible it is ! Quick ! let him taste the wine or perhaps he may do the deed even yet . 
At these words , Aegeus drove every thought and feeling out of his breast , except the one idea of how justly the young man deserved to be put to death . 
Drink ! said he , in the stern tone with which he was wont to condemn a criminal to be beheaded . 
You have well deserved of me such wine as this ! Theseus held out his hand to take the wine . 
But , before he touched it , King Aegeus trembled again . 
His eyes had fallen on the gold hilled sword that hung at the young man's side . 
He drew back the goblet . 
That sword ! he exclaimed how came you by it ? It was my father's sword , replied Theseus , with a tremulous voice . 
told me his story while I was yet a little child . 
My son ! my son ! cried King Aegeus , flinging away the fatal goblet , and tottering down from the throne to fall into the arms of Theseus . 
Yes , these are Aethra's eyes . 
I have quite forgotten what became of the king's nephews . 
The king , hearing the hiss of the serpents , scrambled as fast as he could to the window , and bawled out to the abominable enchantress never to come back . 
And now Prince Theseus was taken into great favor by his royal father . 
, and of hearing him tell about his dear mother , and his childhood , and his many boyish efforts to lift the ponderous stone . 
Theseus , however , was much too brave and active a young man to be willing to spend all his time in relating things which had already happened . 
His ambition was to perform other and more heroic deeds , which should be better worth telling in prose and verse . 
But pretty soon , he undertook an affair that made all his foregone adventures seem like mere boy's play . 
And all these mournful noises , issuing out of thousands of separate hearts , united themselves into one great sound of affliction , which had startled Theseus from slumber . 
, and , hastening to the king , inquired what it all meant . 
Alas ! my son , quoth King Aegeus , heaving a long sigh , here is a very lamentable matter in hand ! This is the wofulest anniversary in the whole year . 
For three years past , this grievous calamity had been borne . 
Theseus , however , felt that he was in the right , and therefore would not give up his resolution . 
And finally , since he could not help it , King Aegeus consented to let him go . 
A sorrowful multitude accompanied them to the shore . 
There was the poor old king , too , leaning on his son's arm , and looking as if his single heart held all the grief of Athens . 
Just as Prince Theseus was going on board , his father bethought himself of one last word to say . 
Now , being weighed down with infirmities , I know not whether I can survive till the vessel shall return . 
But , as long as I do live , I shall creep daily to the top of yonder cliff , to watch if there be a sail upon the sea . 
Theseus promised that he would do so . 
That sight , to be sure , made them all very grave again . 
Theseus stood among the sailors , gazing eagerly towards the land although , as yet , it seemed hardly more substantial than the clouds , amidst which the mountains were looming up . 
Once or twice , he fancied that he saw a glare of some bright object , a long way off , flinging a gleam across the waves . 
Did you see that flash of light ? he inquired of the master of the vessel . 
No , prince but I have seen it before , answered the master . 
It came from Talus , I suppose . 
As the breeze came fresher just then , the master was busy with trimming his sails , and had no more time to answer questions . 
The folds of its garments , moreover , instead of waving in the wind , fell heavily over its limbs , as if woven of some kind of metal . 
The nigher the vessel came , the more Theseus wondered what this immense giant could be , and whether it actually had life or no . 
The figure looked all the more terrible because it carried an enormous brass club on its shoulder . 
What is this wonder ? Theseus asked of the master of the vessel , who was now at leisure to answer him . 
It is Talus , the Man of Brass , said the master . 
And is he a live giant , or a brazen image ? asked Theseus . 
That , truly , replied the master , is the point which has always perplexed me . 
Some say , indeed , that this Talus was hammered out for King Minos by Vulcan himself , the skilfullest of all workers in metal . 
But just when Theseus and his companions thought the blow was coming , the brazen lips unclosed themselves , and the figure spoke . 
From Athens ! shouted the master in reply . 
On what errand ? thundered the Man of Brass . 
We bring the seven youths and the seven maidens , answered the master , to be devoured by the Minotaur ! Pass ! cried the brazen giant . 
That one loud word rolled all about the sky , while again there was a booming reverberation within the figure's breast . 
The vessel glided between the headlands of the port , and the giant resumed his march . 
No sooner had they entered the harbor than a party of the guards of King Minos came down to the water side , and took charge of the fourteen young men and damsels . 
Surrounded by these armed warriors , Prince Theseus and his companions were led to the king's palace , and ushered into his presence . 
Now , Minos was a stern and pitiless king . 
He bent his shaggy brows upon the poor Athenian victims . 
But this immitigable Minos cared only to examine whether they were plump enough to satisfy the Minotaur's appetite . 
For my part , I wish he himself had been the only victim and the monster would have found him a pretty tough one . 
, and dismissed them with a nod to his guards . 
But when his eyes rested on Theseus , the king looked at him more attentively , because his face was calm and brave . 
She was a beautiful and tender hearted maiden , and looked at these poor doomed captives with very different feelings from those of the iron breasted King Minos . 
And when she beheld the brave , spirited figure of Prince Theseus bearing himself so calmly in his terrible peril , she grew a hundred times more pitiful than before . 
As the guards were taking him away , she flung herself at the king's feet , and besought him to set all the captives free , and especially this one young man . 
Peace , foolish girl ! answered King Minos . 
What hast thou to do with an affair like this ? It is a matter of state policy , and therefore quite beyond thy weak comprehension . 
Go water thy flowers , and think no more of these Athenian caitiffs , whom the Minotaur shall as certainly eat up for breakfast as I will eat a partridge for my supper . 
So saying , the king looked cruel enough to devour Theseus and all the rest of the captives himself , had there been no Minotaur to save him the trouble . 
The seven maiden s and six of the young men soon sobbed themselves to slumber . 
But Theseus was not like them . 
So he kept himself awake , and paced to and fro across the gloomy dungeon in which they were shut up . 
Just before midnight , the door was softly unbarred , and the gentle Ariadne showed herself , with a torch in her hand . 
Are you awake , Prince Theseus ? she whispered . 
With so little time to live , I do not choose to waste any of it in sleep . 
Then follow me , said Ariadne , and tread softly . 
What had become of the jailer and the guards , Theseus never knew . 
But , however that might be , Ariadne opened all the doors , and led him forth from the darksome prison into the pleasant moonlight . 
Theseus , said the maiden , you can now get on board your vessel , and sail away for Athens . 
No , answered the young man I will never leave Crete unless I can first slay the Minotaur , and save my poor companions , and deliver Athens from this cruel tribute . 
I knew that this would be your resolution , said Ariadne . 
Come , then , with me , brave Theseus . 
Here is your own sword , which the guards deprived you of . 
You will need it and pray Heaven you may use it well . 
After going a good way through this obscurity , they reached a high marble wall , which was overgrown with creeping plants , that made it shaggy with their verdure . 
We are now , said Ariadne , in the famous labyrinth which Daedalus built before he made himself a pair of wings , and flew away from our island like a bird . 
That Daedalus was a very cunning workman but of all his artful contrivances , this labyrinth is the most wondrous . 
Were we to take but a few steps from the doorway , we might wander about all our lifetime , and never find it again . 
Yet in the very center of this labyrinth is the Minotaur and , Theseus , you must go thither to seek him . 
Theseus even fancied a rude articulation in it , as if the creature that uttered it were trying to shape his hoarse breath into words . 
It was at some distance , however , and he really could not tell whether it sounded most like a bull's roar or a man's harsh voice . 
That is the Minotaur's noise , whispered Ariadne , closely grasping the hand of Theseus , and pressing one of her own hands to her heart , which was all in a tremble . 
You must follow that sound through the windings of the labyrinth , and , by and by , you will find him . 
Stay ! take the end of this silken string I will hold the other end and then , if you win the victory . 
it will lead you again to this spot . 
How this labyrinth was built is more than I can tell you . 
But so cunningly contrived a mizmaze was never seen in the world , before nor since . 
Theseus had not taken five steps before he lost sight of Ariadne and in five more his head was growing dizzy . 
As he passed onward , the clouds gathered over the moon , and the labyrinth grew so dusky that Theseus could no longer discern the bewilderment through which he was passing . 
O , indeed , I can assure you , there was a vast deal of human sympathy running along that slender thread of silk . 
And at last , in an open space , at the very center of the labyrinth , he did discern the hideous creature . 
Was Theseus afraid ? By no means , my dear auditors . 
What ! a hero like Theseus afraid , Not had the Minotaur had twenty bull heads instead of one . 
Come on , then , and try it ! was all that Theseus deigned to reply for he was far too magnanimous to assault his enemy with insolent language . 
Without more words on either side , there ensued the most awful fight between Theseus and the Minotaur that ever happened beneath the sun or moon . 
On this mishap , he bellowed so intolerably that a part of the labyrinth tumbled down , and all the inhabitants of Crete mistook the noise for an uncommonly heavy thunder storm . 
Smarting with the pain , he galloped around the open space in so ridiculous a way that Theseus laughed at it , long afterwards , though not precisely at the moment . 
After this , the two antagonists stood valiantly up to one another , and fought , sword to horn , for a long while . 
But Theseus by this time had leaped up , and caught the monster off his guard . 
So now the battle was ended . 
Immediately the moon shone out as brightly as if all the troubles of the world , and all the wickedness and the ugliness that infest human life , were past and gone forever . 
Eager to let Ariadne know of his success , he followed the guidance of the thread , and soon found himself at the entrance of the labyrinth . 
Thou hast slain the monster , cried Ariadne , clasping her hands . 
Thanks to thee , dear Ariadne , answered Theseus , I return victorious . 
Then , said Ariadne , we must quickly summon thy friends , and get them and thyself on board the vessel before dawn . 
If morning finds thee here , my father will avenge the Minotaur . 
Hastening down to the vessel , they all clambered on board , except Prince Theseus , who lingered behind them on the strand , holding Ariadne's hand clasped in his own . 
Dear maiden , said he , thou wilt surely go with us . 
Thou art too gentle and sweet a child for such an iron hearted father as King Minos . 
He cares no more for thee than a granite rock cares for the little flower that grows in one of its crevices . 
Come with us , then for King Minos will be very angry when he knows what thou hast done . 
ungratefully deserted Ariadne , on a solitary island , where the vessel touched on its voyage to Athens . 
My father is old , and has nobody but myself to love him . 
Hard as you think his heart is , it would break to lose me . 
I have saved you , Theseus , as much for my father's sake as for your own . 
Nothing remained for him , therefore , but to bid Ariadne an affectionate farewell , and to go on board the vessel , and set sail . 
In a few moments the white foam was boiling up before their prow , as Prince Theseus and his companions sailed out of the harbor , with a whistling breeze behind them . 
There he lies yet and whoever desires to enrich himself by means of brass had better go thither with a diving bell , and fish up Talus . 
On the homeward voyage , the fourteen youths and damsels were in excellent spirits , as you will easily suppose . 
They spent most of their time in dancing , unless when the sidelong breeze made the deck slope too much . 
In due season , they came within sight of the coast of Attica , which was their native country . 
But here , I am grieved to tell you , happened a sad misfortune . 
that his father , King Aegeus , had enjoined it upon him to hoist sunshiny sails , instead of black ones , in case he should overcome the Minotaur , and return victorious . 
Thus the vessel returned , like a raven , with the same sable wings that had wafted her away . 
, were all brethren , and dwelt together in a very friendly and affectionate manner , far , far off , in the middle of hot Africa . 
As for the Giant , being of a very lofty stature , it was easy enough to see him , but safest to keep out of his sight . 
Among the Pygmies , I suppose , if one of them grew to the height of six or eight inches , he was reckoned a prodigiously tall man . 
The king's palace attained to the stupendous magnitude of Periwinkle's baby house , and stood in the center of a spacious square , which could hardly have been covered by our hearth rug . 
Their principal temple , or cathedral , was as lofty as yonder bureau , and was looked upon as a wonderfully sublime and magnificent edifice . 
All these structures were built neither of stone nor wood . 
The country round about was conveniently laid out in fields , the largest of which was nearly of the same extent as one of Sweet Fern's flower beds . 
If it did not smash him all to pieces , at least , I am sure , it must have made the poor little fellow's head ache . 
You might have hidden a year old baby under a thimble . 
Now these funny Pygmies , as I told you before , had a Giant for their neighbor and brother , who was bigger , if possible , than they were little . 
He was so very tall that he carried a pine tree , which was eight feet through the butt , for a walking stick . 
But at noonday in a clear atmosphere , when the sun shone brightly over him , the Giant Antaeus presented a very grand spectacle . 
giving a friendly wink to the whole nation at once . 
It was a happy circumstance that Antaeus was the Pygmy people's friend for there was more strength in his little finger than in ten million of such bodies as this . 
With the tornado of his breath , he could have stripped the roofs from a hundred dwellings and sent thousands of the inhabitants whirling through the air . 
He might have set his immense foot upon a multitude and when he took it up again , there would have been a pitiful sight , to be sure . 
And , on their parts , the Pygmies loved Antaeus with as much affection as their tiny hearts could hold . 
In short , as I said before , Antaeus loved the Pygmies , and the Pygmies loved Antaeus . 
It was written about in the Pygmy histories , and talked about in their ancient traditions . 
The most venerable and white bearded Pygmy had never heard of a time , even in his greatest of grandfathers' days , when the Giant was not their enormous friend . 
, Antaeus sat down upon about five thousand Pygmies , who were assembled at a military review . 
For , unless they had been his neighbors and well wishers , and , as we may say , his playfellows , Antaeus would not have had a single friend in the world . 
No other being like himself had ever been created . 
No creature of his own size had ever talked with him , in thunder like accents , face to face . 
When he stood with his head among the clouds , he was quite alone , and had been so for hundreds of years , and would be so forever . 
But with the Pygmies he was the most sportive and humorous , and merry hearted , and sweet tempered old Giant that ever washed his face in a wet cloud . 
His little friends , like all other small people , had a great opinion of their own importance , and used to assume quite a patronizing air towards the Giant . 
Poor creature ! they said one to another . 
He has a very dull time of it , all by himself and we ought not to grudge wasting a little of our precious time to amuse him . 
He is not half so bright as we are , to be sure and , for that reason , he needs us to look after his comfort and happiness . 
Let us be kind to the old fellow . 
Why , if Mother Earth had not been very kind to ourselves , we might all have been Giants too . 
On all their holidays , the Pygmies had excellent sport with Antaeus . 
He would lay down his great hand flat on the grass , and challenge the tallest of them to clamber upon it , and straddle from finger to finger . 
So fearless were they , that they made nothing of creeping in among the folds of his garments . 
when Antaeus gave a sudden snap of his jaws , as if he were going to swallow fifty of them at once . 
You would have laughed to see the children dodging in and out among his hair , or swinging from his beard . 
It was another favorite feat with them to march along the bridge of his nose , and jump down upon his upper lip . 
Ho ! ho ! ho ! quoth the Giant , shaking his mountainous sides . 
What a funny thing it is to be little ! If I were not Antaeus , I should like to be a Pygmy , just for the joke's sake . 
The Pygmies had but one thing to trouble them in the world . 
They were constantly at war with the cranes , and had always been so , ever since the long lived Giant could remember . 
From time to time , very terrible battles had been fought in which sometimes the little men won the victory , and sometimes the cranes . 
In the above described warfare , if a Pygmy chanced to pluck out a crane's tail feather , it proved a very great feather in his cap . 
Once or twice , if you will believe me , a little man was made chief ruler of the nation for no other merit in the world than bringing home such a feather . 
In the remaining part of the story , I shall tell you of a far more astonishing battle than any that was fought between the Pygmies and the cranes . 
One day the mighty Antaeus was lolling at full length among his little friends . 
His pine tree walking stick lay on the ground , close by his side . 
Sometimes , for a minute or two , the Giant dropped asleep , and snored like the rush of a whirlwind . 
At first he mistook it for a mountain , and wondered how it had grown up so suddenly out of the earth . 
But soon he saw the mountain move . 
Here comes another Giant to have a tussle with you . 
Poh , poh ! grumbled Antaeus , only half awake . 
None of your nonsense , my little fellow ! Don't you see I'm sleepy ? There is not a Giant on earth for whom I would take the trouble to get up . 
But the Pygmy looked again , and now perceived that the stranger was coming directly towards the prostrate form of Antaeus . 
With every step , he looked less like a blue mountain , and more like an immensely large man . 
He was soon so nigh , that there could be no possible mistake about the matter . 
Get up , Antaeus ! Bestir yourself , you lazy old Giant ! Here comes another Giant , as strong as you are , to fight with you . 
Nonsense , nonsense ! growled the sleepy Giant . 
I'll have my nap out , come who may . 
Still the stranger drew nearer and now the Pygmies could plainly discern that , if his stature were less lofty than the Giant's , yet his shoulders were even broader . 
And , in truth , what a pair of shoulders they must have been ! As I told you , a long while ago , they once upheld the sky . 
The Pygmies , being ten times as vivacious as their great numskull of a brother , could not abide the Giant's slow movements , and were determined to have him on his feet . 
So they kept shouting to him , and even went so far as to prick him with their swords . 
Get up , get up , get up , they cried . 
Up with you , lazy bones ! The strange Giant's club is bigger than your own , his shoulders are the broadest , and we think him the stronger of the two . 
Antaeus could not endure to have it said that any mortal was half so mighty as himself . 
Who are you ? thundered the Giant . 
Some persons affirm that he grew ten times stronger at every touch others say that it was only twice as strong . 
But these great lubberly fellows resemble mountains , not only in bulk , but in their disinclination to move . 
Any other mortal man , except the very one whom Antaeus had now encountered , would have been half frightened to death by the Giant's ferocious aspect and terrible voice . 
But the stranger did not seem at all disturbed . 
, the stranger could not have been less afraid of him . 
Who are you , I say ? roared Antaeus again . 
As for my name , it is Hercules . 
I have come hither because this is my most convenient road to the garden of the Hesperides , whither I am going to get three of the golden apples for King Eurystheus . 
I will make a slave of you , and you shall likewise be the slave of my brethren here , the Pygmies . 
So throw down your club and your other weapons and as for that lion's skin , I intend to have a pair of gloves made of it . 
Come and take it off my shoulders , then , answered Hercules , lifting his club . 
were a good deal dismayed at this . 
But no sooner was the Giant down , than up he bounced again , with tenfold might , and such a furious visage as was horrible to behold . 
He aimed another blow at Hercules , but struck awry , being blinded with wrath , and only hit his poor innocent Mother Earth , who groaned and trembled at the stroke . 
Away it went , over mountains and valleys , and , for aught I know , was heard on the other side of the African deserts . 
This time , rascal , shouted he , you shall not escape me . 
As for his rage , there is no telling what a fiery furnace it had now got to be . 
His one eye was nothing but a circle of red flame . 
Come on ! roared this thundering Giant . 
Let me hit you but one box on the ear , and you'll never have the headache again . 
So , throwing down his club , with which he had fought so many dreadful battles , the hero stood ready to receive his antagonist with naked arms . 
Step forward , cried he . 
Since I've broken your pine tree , we'll try which is the better man at a wrestling match . 
Aha ! then I'll soon satisfy you , shouted the Giant for , if there was one thing on which he prided himself more than another , it was his skill in wrestling . 
Villain , I'll fling you where you can never pick yourself up again . 
On came Antaeus , hopping and capering with the scorching heat of his rage , and getting new vigor wherewith to wreak his passion , every time he hopped . 
Just imagine it , my dear little friends . 
But the most wonderful thing was , that , as soon as Antaeus was fairly off the earth , he began to lose the vigor which he had gained by touching it . 
Hercules had guessed this secret and it may be well for us all to remember it , in case we should ever have to fight a battle with a fellow like Antaeus . 
For these earth born creatures are only difficult to conquer on their own ground , but may easily be managed if we can contrive to lift them into a loftier and purer region . 
So it proved with the poor Giant , whom I am really a little sorry for , notwithstanding his uncivil way of treating strangers who came to visit him . 
As soon as the Pygmies saw Hercules preparing for a nap , they nodded their little heads at one another , and winked with their little eyes . 
And when his deep , regular breathing gave them notice that he was asleep , they assembled together in an immense crowd , spreading over a space of about twenty seven feet square . 
climbed upon a toadstool , and , from that elevated position , addressed the multitude . 
in a way that neither man , nor Giant , nor Pygmy ever dreamed of fighting , until this hour . 
He was our faithful ally , and fell fighting as much for our national rights and immunities as for his own personal ones . 
We and our forefathers have dwelt in friendship with him , and held affectionate intercourse as man to man , through immemorial generations . 
The orator was here interrupted by a burst of irrepressible enthusiasm every individual Pygmy crying out that the national honor must be preserved at all hazards . 
In the latter case , though not unconscious that there may be taller men among you , I hereby offer myself for that enviable duty . 
, and sent the scabbard whirling over the heads of the multitude . 
Moreover , if awakened , and allowed to get upon his feet , Hercules might happen to do them a mischief before he could be beaten down again . 
For , as these sage counselors remarked , the stranger's club was really very big , and had rattled like a thunderbolt against the skull of Antaeus . 
So the Pygmies resolved to set aside all foolish punctilios , and assail their antagonist at once . 
A body of twenty thousand archers marched in front , with their little bows all ready , and the arrows on the string . 
It was found necessary , therefore , to hit upon some other method of carrying on the war . 
The archers , meanwhile , were stationed within bow shot , with orders to let fly at Hercules the instant that he stirred . 
But no sooner did Hercules begin to be scorched , than up he started , with his hair in a red blaze . 
What's all this ? he cried , bewildered with sleep , and staring about him as if he expected to see another Giant . 
At that moment the twenty thousand archers twanged their bowstrings , and the arrows came whizzing , like so many winged mosquitoes , right into the face of Hercules . 
But I doubt whether more than half a dozen of them punctured the skin , which was remarkably tough , as you know the skin of a hero has good need to be . 
Villain ! shouted all the Pygmies at once . 
You have killed the Giant Antaeus , our great brother , and the ally of our nation . 
We declare bloody war against you , and will slay you on the spot . 
Surprised at the shrill piping of so many little voices , Hercules , after putting out the conflagration of his hair , gazed all round about , but could see nothing . 
At last , however , looking narrowly on the ground , he espied the innumerable assemblage of Pygmies at his feet . 
It chanced to be the very identical Pygmy who had spoken from the top of the toadstool , and had offered himself as a champion to meet Hercules in single combat . 
What in the world , my little fellow , ejaculated Hercules , may you be ? I am your enemy , answered the valiant Pygmy , in his mightiest squeak . 
You have slain the enormous Antaeus , our brother by the mother's side , and for ages the faithful ally of our illustrious nation . 
We are determined to put you to death and for my own part , I challenge you to instant battle , on equal ground . 
Pray , how big may your soul be ? As big as your own ! said the Pygmy . 
Hercules was touched with the little man's dauntless courage , and could not help acknowledging such a brotherhood with him as one hero feels for another . 
I sue for peace , and , as a condition of it , will take five strides , and be out of your kingdom at the sixth . 
I shall pick my steps carefully , for fear of treading upon some fifty of you , without knowing it . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Ho , ho , ho ! For once , Hercules acknowledges himself vanquished . 
But this is a mistake . 
, were at play together near the seashore in their father's kingdom of Phoenicia . 
The three boys were very happy , gathering flowers , and twining them into garlands , with which they adorned the little Europa . 
For a while , she listened to the pleasant murmur of the sea , which was like a voice saying Hush ! and bidding her go to sleep . 
Brother Cadmus ! cried Europa , starting up out of the midst of the roses and lilies . 
So there she stood , with her pretty mouth wide open , as pale as the white lilies that were twisted among the other flowers in her garlands . 
Nevertheless , it was the suddenness with which she had perceived the bull , rather than anything frightful in his appearance , that caused Europa so much alarm . 
On looking at him more attentively , she began to see that he was a beautiful animal , and even fancied a particularly amiable expression in his face . 
Never before did a bull have such bright and tender eyes , and such smooth horns of ivory , as this one . 
, when he saw that Europa was no longer afraid of him , he grew overjoyed , and could hardly contain himself for delight . 
He frisked about the meadow , now here , now there , making sprightly leaps , with as little effort as a bird expends in hopping from twig to twig . 
Indeed , his motion was as light as if he were flying through the air , and his hoofs seemed hardly to leave their print in the grassy soil over which he trod . 
With his spotless hue , he resembled a snow drift , wafted along by the wind . 
Once he galloped so far away that Europa feared lest she might never see him again so , setting up her childish voice , called him back . 
Come back , pretty creature ! she cried . 
Here is a nice clover blossom . 
And then it was delightful to witness the gratitude of this amiable bull , and how he was so full of joy and thankfulness that he capered higher than ever . 
Come , dear child , was what he wanted to say , let me give you a ride on my back . 
At the first thought of such a thing , Europa drew back . 
It would be the quickest way of rejoining them , to get upon the white bull's back . 
, there sat Europa on the beautiful bull , holding an ivory horn in each hand , lest she should fall off . 
Softly , pretty bull , softly ! she said , rather frightened at what she had done . 
Do not gallop too fast . 
He then began a race to that part of the flowery plain where her three brothers were , and where they had just caught their splendid butterfly . 
pranced round among the children as sportively as a kitten . 
Europa all the while looked down upon her brothers , nodding and laughing , but yet with a sort of stateliness in her rosy little face . 
Good bye , shouted Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , all in one breath . 
The white spray rose in a shower over him and little Europa , and fell spattering down upon the water . 
But it was too late . 
Nothing more was ever seen of the white bull nothing more of the beautiful child . 
This was a mournful story , as you may well think , for the three boys to carry home to their parents . 
Although it was now twilight , and fast growing dark , he bade them set out instantly in search of her . 
Never shall you see my face again , he cried , unless you bring me back my little Europa , to gladden me with her smiles and her pretty ways . 
Begone , and enter my presence no more , till you come leading her by the hand . 
, came hurrying after them , and said that she too would go in quest of her daughter . 
O , no , mother ! cried the boys . 
The night is dark , and there is no knowing what troubles and perils we may meet with . 
Alas ! my dear children , answered poor Queen Telephassa weeping bitterly , that is only another reason why I should go with you . 
The whole party , therefore , set forth together . 
Cadmus , Phoenix , Cilix , and Thasus clustered round Queen Telephassa , grasping her skirts , and begging her to lean upon their shoulders whenever she felt weary . 
In this manner they went down the palace steps , and began a journey , which turned out to be a great deal longer than they dreamed of . 
We must now leave King Agenor to sit on his throne , and must go along with Queen Telephassa , and her four youthful companions . 
They went on and on , and traveled a long way , and passed over mountains and rivers , and sailed over seas . 
Here , and there , and everywhere , they made continual inquiry if any person could tell them what had become of Europa . 
The rustic people , of whom they asked this question , paused a little while from their labors in the field , and looked very much surprised . 
, roaming about the country , with four lads around her , on such an errand as this seemed to be . 
But certain it is , that , before they reached any place of rest , their splendid garments were quite worn out . 
When they had been gone a year , Telephassa threw away her crown , because it chafed her forehead . 
It has given me many a headache , said the poor queen , and it cannot cure my heartache . 
As fast as their princely robes got torn and tattered , they exchanged them for such mean attire as ordinary people wore . 
The four boys grew up to be tall young men , with sunburnt faces . 
Each of them girded on a sword , to defend themselves against the perils of the way . 
came behind them to bind the sheaves . 
If payment was offered , they shook their heads , and only asked for tidings of Europa . 
There are bulls enough in my pasture , the old farmers would reply but I never heard of one like this you tell me of . 
A snow white bull with a little princess on his back ! Ho ! ho ! I ask your pardon , good folks but there never such a sight seen hereabouts . 
At last , when his upper lip began to have the down on it , Phoenix grew weary of rambling hither and thither to no purpose . 
So one day , when they happened to be passing through a pleasant and solitary tract of country , he sat himself down on a heap of moss . 
I can go no farther , said Phoenix . 
It is a mere foolish waste of life , to spend it as we do , always wandering up and down , and never coming to any home at nightfall . 
Our sister is lost , and never will be found . 
My father has forbidden us to return to his palace , so I shall build me a hut of branches , and dwell here . 
Well , son Phoenix , said Telephassa , sorrowfully , you have grown to be a man , and must do as you judge best . 
But , for my part , I will still go in quest of my poor child . 
And we three will go along with you ! cried Cadmus and Cilix , and their faithful friend Thasus . 
But , before setting out , they all helped Phoenix to build a habitation . 
When completed , it was a sweet rural bower , roofed overhead with an arch of living boughs . 
But , when they bade him farewell , Phoenix shed tears , and probably regretted that he was no longer to keep them company . 
However , he had fixed upon an admirable place to dwell in . 
For the inhabitants of the new city , finding that he had royal blood in his veins , had chosen him to be their king . 
These thoughts made them all melancholy at times , but appeared to torment Cilix more than the rest of the party . 
There is no substance in the life which we are leading . 
Were we to find her , she would now be a woman grown , and would look upon us all as strangers . 
So , to tell you the truth , I have resolved to take up my abode here and I entreat you , mother , brother , and friend , to follow my example . 
Not I , for one , said Telephassa although the poor queen , firmly as she spoke , was so travel worn that she could hardly put her foot to the ground . 
Not I , for one ! In the depths of my heart , little Europa is still the rosy child who ran to gather flowers so many years ago . 
She has not grown to womanhood , nor forgotten me . 
Nor for me , said Cadmus , while my dear mother pleases to go onward . 
And the faithful Thasus , too , was resolved to bear them company . 
They remained with Cilix a few days , however , and helped him to build a rustic bower , resembling the one which they had formerly built for Phoenix . 
If she really believed that they would ever find Europa , he was willing to continue the search with them , even now . 
But Telephassa bade him remain there , and be happy , if his own heart would let him . 
There being abundance of unoccupied ground in the neighborhood , these strangers built huts for themselves , and were soon joined by a multitude of new settlers , who quickly formed a city . 
As for Telephassa , and Cadmus , and the good Thasus , it grieves me to think of them , still keeping up that weary pilgrimage . 
Sad , sad it was to hear them asking of every passer by if he had seen Europa , so long after the white bull had carried her away . 
But , though the gray years thrust themselves between , and made the child's figure dim in their remembrance , neither of these true hearted three ever dreamed of giving up the search . 
One morning , however , poor Thasus found that he had sprained his ankle , and could not possibly go a step farther . 
After a few days , to be sure , said he , mournfully , I might make shift to hobble along with a stick . 
But that would only delay you , and perhaps hinder you from finding dear little Europa , after all your pains and trouble . 
Do you go forward , therefore , my beloved companions , and leave me to follow as I may . 
Thou hast been a true friend , dear Thasus , said Queen Telephassa , kissing his forehead . 
Without thy loving help , and that of my son Cadmus , my limbs could not have borne me half so far as this . 
Now , take thy rest , and be at peace . 
For and it is the first time I have owned it to myself I begin to question whether we shall ever find my beloved daughter in this world . 
Saying this , the poor queen shed tears , because it was a grievous trial to the mother's heart to confess that her hopes were growing faint . 
From that day forward , Cadmus noticed that she never traveled with the same alacrity of spirit that had heretofore supported her . 
Her weight was heavier upon his arm . 
Thasus , however , did not spend all his days in this green bower . 
For it happened to him , as to Phoenix and Cilix , that other homeless people visited the spot , and liked it , and built themselves habitations in the neighborhood . 
, but because Thasus was an upright , true hearted , and courageous man , and therefore fit to rule . 
He returned after a lengthened absence , and sat down wearily upon his throne . 
Telephassa and Cadmus were now pursuing their weary way , with no companion but each other . 
The queen leaned heavily upon her son's arm , and could walk only a few miles a day . 
But for all her weakness and weariness , she would not be persuaded to give up the search . 
It is no dream , said Cadmus . 
Everything else is a dream , save that . 
But , one day , Telephassa seemed feebler than usual , and leaned almost her whole weight on the arm of Cadmus , and walked more slowly than ever before . 
At last they reached a solitary spot , where she told her son that she must needs lie down , and take a good long rest . 
A good long rest ! she repeated , looking Cadmus tenderly in the face . 
A good long rest , thou dearest one ! As long as you please , dear mother , answered Cadmus . 
Telephassa bade him sit down on the turf beside her , and then she took his hand . 
Dear Cadmus , you do not comprehend me . 
You must make a grave here , and lay your mother's weary frame into it . 
Cadmus burst into tears , and , for a long time , refused to believe that his dear mother was now to be taken from him . 
He therefore repressed his sorrow , and listened to her last words . 
Dearest Cadmus , said she , thou hast been the truest son that ever mother had , and faithful to the very last . 
Thou shalt wander no more on this hopeless search . 
But , when thou hast laid thy mother in the earth , then go , my son , to Delphi , and inquire of the oracle what thou shalt do next . 
I go now to the better world , and , sooner or later , shall find my daughter there . 
He planted some flowers on his mother's grave , and left them to grow there , and make the place beautiful , when he should be far away . 
After performing this last sorrowful duty , he set forth alone , and took the road towards the famous oracle of Delphi , as Telephassa had advised him . 
Some told him one thing , and some another . 
Poor Cadmus found it more wearisome to travel alone than to bear all his dear mother's weight , while she had kept him company . 
His heart , you will understand , was now so heavy that it seemed impossible , sometimes , to carry it any farther . 
But his limbs were strong and active , and well accustomed to exercise . 
Full of these remembrances , he came within sight of a lofty mountain , which the people thereabouts told him was called Parnassus . 
On the slope of Mount Parnassus was the famous Delphi , whither Cadmus was going . 
This Delphi was supposed to be the very midmost spot of the whole world . 
The place of the oracle was a certain cavity in the mountain side , over which , when Cadmus came thither , he found a rude bower of branches . 
It reminded him of those which he had helped to build for Phoenix and Cilix , and afterwards for Thasus . 
In later times , when multitudes of people came from great distances to put questions to the oracle , a spacious temple of marble was erected over the spot . 
When Cadmus had thrust a passage through the tangled boughs , and made his way into the bower , he did not at first discern the half hidden cavity . 
But soon he felt a cold stream of air rushing out of it , with so much force that it shook the ringlets on his cheek . 
Pulling away the shrubbery which clustered over the hole , he bent forward , and spoke in a distinct but reverential tone , as if addressing some unseen personage inside of the mountain . 
But Cadmus was more fortunate than many others who went to Delphi in search of truth . 
By and by , the rushing noise began to sound like articulate language . 
For , ever since he was a child , you know , it had been the great object of his life to find his sister . 
From the very hour that he left following the butterfly in the meadow , near his father's palace , he had done his best to follow Europa , over land and sea . 
And now , if he must give up the search , he seemed to have no more business in the world . 
But again the sighing gust of air grew into something like a hoarse voice . 
Follow the cow ! it said . 
, the gusty hole gave vent to another sentence . 
Where the stray cow lies down , there is your home . 
These words were pronounced but a single time , and died away into a whisper before Cadmus was fully satisfied that he had caught the meaning . 
He put other questions , but received no answer only the gust of wind sighed continually out of the cavity , and blew the withered leaves rustling along the ground before it . 
Whenever he met anybody , the old question was at his tongue's end . 
I know not how far Cadmus had gone , nor could he himself have told you , when at no great distance before him , he beheld a brindled cow . 
She was lying down by the wayside , and quietly chewing her cud nor did she take any notice of the young man until he had approached pretty nigh . 
But he smiled at himself for fancying such a thing . 
He could not seriously think that this was the cow , because she went along so quietly , behaving just like any other cow . 
Perhaps she was going home to be milked . 
Cow , cow , cow ! cried Cadmus . 
But still the brindled cow trudged on , whisking her tail to keep the flies away , and taking as little notice of Cadmus as she well could . 
If he walked slowly , so did the cow , and seized the opportunity to graze . 
When Cadmus saw that it was impossible to come up with her , he walked on moderately , as before . 
The cow , too , went leisurely on , without looking behind . 
Wherever the grass was greenest , there she nibbled a mouthful or two . 
Where a brook glistened brightly across the path , there the cow drank , and breathed a comfortable sigh , and drank again . 
and trudged onward at the pace that best suited herself and Cadmus . 
I do believe , thought Cadmus , that this may be the cow that was foretold me . 
If it be the one , I suppose she will lie down somewhere hereabouts . 
Whether it were the oracular cow or some other one , it did not seem reasonable that she should travel a great way farther . 
But still , whether he liked the place or no , the brindled cow never offered to lie down . 
But no milkmaid came no herdsman drove her back and Cadmus followed the stray Brindle till he was almost ready to drop down with fatigue . 
Indeed , it seemed as if there were something about the animal that bewitched people . 
Several persons who happened to see the brindled cow , and Cadmus following behind , began to trudge after her , precisely as he did . 
Cadmus was glad of somebody to converse with , and therefore talked very freely to these good people . 
He mentioned , likewise , that the oracle had bidden him be guided by a cow , and inquired of the strangers whether they supposed that this brindled animal could be the one . 
Why , 'tis a very wonderful affair , answered one of his new companions . 
I am pretty well acquainted with the ways of cattle , and I never knew a cow , of her own accord , to go so far without stopping . 
If my legs will let me , I'll never leave following the beast till she lies down . 
Nor I ! said a second . 
Nor I ! cried a third . 
If she goes a hundred miles farther , I am determined to see the end of it . 
They could not possibly help following her , though all the time they fancied themselves doing it of their own accord . 
What a weary business it was ! But still they kept trudging stoutly forward , and talking as they went . 
The strangers grew very fond of Cadmus , and resolved never to leave him , but to help him build a city wherever the cow might lie down . 
Joy ! joy ! cried he , clapping his hands . 
Brindle is going to lie down . 
They all looked and , sure enough , the cow had stopped , and was staring leisurely about her , as other cows do when on the point of lying down . 
And slowly , slowly did she recline herself on the soft grass , first bending her forelegs , and then crouching her hind ones . 
This , then , said Cadmus , gazing around him , this is to be my home . 
A home feeling stole into the heart of poor Cadmus . 
He was very glad to know that here he might awake in the morning without the necessity of putting on his dusty sandals to travel farther and farther . 
The days and the years would pass over him , and find him still in this pleasant spot . 
Some day or other , too , his sister Europa might have come quietly to the door of his home , and smiled round upon the familiar faces . 
Yes , my friends , said he to them , this is to be our home . 
Here we will build our habitations . 
The brindled cow , which has led us hither , will supply us with milk . 
We will cultivate the neighboring soil . 
and lead an innocent and happy life . 
His companions joyfully assented to this plan and , in the first place , being very hungry and thirsty , they looked about them for the means of providing a comfortable meal . 
Not far off they saw a tuft of trees , which appeared as if there might be a spring of water beneath them . 
Before Cadmus could reach the spot , this pitiless reptile had killed his poor companions , and was busily devouring them , making but a mouthful of each man . 
It appears that the fountain of water was enchanted , and that the dragon had been set to guard it , so that no mortal might ever quench his thirst there . 
But Cadmus was so enraged at the destruction of his friends that he cared neither for the size of the dragon's jaws nor for his hundreds of sharp teeth . 
Drawing his sword , he rushed at the monster , and flung himself right into his cavernous mouth . 
And here he was , after all his toils and troubles , in a solitary place , with not a single human being to help him build a hut . 
What shall I do ? cried he aloud . 
It were better for me to have been devoured by the dragon , as my poor companions were . 
This was a strange thing to do nor was it very easy , I should imagine , to dig out all those deep rooted fangs from the dead dragon's jaws . 
The next thing was to plant them . 
Cadmus , quite out of breath , stood leaning upon his sword , and wondering what was to happen next . 
He had waited but a few moments , when he began to see a sight , which was as great a marvel as the most marvelous thing I ever told you about . 
The sun was shining slantwise over the field , and showed all the moist , dark soil just like any other newly planted piece of ground . 
All at once , Cadmus fancied he saw something glisten very brightly , first at one spot , then at another , and then at a hundred and a thousand spots together . 
Soon he perceived them to be the steel heads of spears , sprouting up everywhere like so many stalks of grain , and continually growing taller and taller . 
Next appeared a vast number of bright sword blades , thrusting themselves up in the same way . 
A moment afterwards , the whole surface of the ground was broken by a multitude of polished brass helmets , coming up like a crop of enormous beans . 
So rapidly did they grow , that Cadmus now discerned the fierce countenance of a man beneath every one . 
Every tooth of the dragon had produced one of these sons of deadly mischief . 
So enraged did they all look , that Cadmus fully expected them to put the whole world to the sword . 
So Cadmus seized a large stone , and flinging it into the middle of the earth army , saw it strike the breastplate of a gigantic and fierce looking warrior . 
In an instant , those nearest the fallen warrior began to strike at one another with their swords , and stab with their spears . 
The confusion spread wider and wider . 
Each man smote down his brother , and was himself smitten down before he had time to exult in his victory . 
The trumpeters , all the while , blew their blasts shriller and shriller each soldier shouted a battle cry , and often fell with it on his lips . 
It ought to be considered , too , that the dragon people were made for nothing else whereas other mortals were born to love and help one another . 
Well , this memorable battle continued to rage until the ground was strewn with helmeted heads that had been cut off . 
Of all the thousands that began the fight , there were only five left standing . 
These now rushed from different parts of the field , and , meeting in the middle of it , clashed their swords , and struck at each other's hearts as fiercely as ever . 
Cadmus , said the voice again , bid those five warriors sheathe their swords . 
They will help you to build the city . 
Sheathe your weapons ! said he . 
These five men had probably sprung from the biggest of the dragon's teeth , and were the boldest and strongest of the whole army . 
They were almost giants indeed , and had good need to be so , else they never could have lived through so terrible a fight . 
They still had a very furious look , and , if Cadmus happened to glance aside , would glare at one another , with fire flashing out of their eyes . 
But Cadmus was wiser than these earth born creatures , with the dragon's fierceness in them , and knew better how to use their strength and hardihood . 
Make yourselves useful ! Quarry some stones with those great swords of yours , and help me to build a city . 
The five soldiers grumbled a little , and muttered that it was their business to overthrow cities , not to build them up . 
They set to work in good earnest , and toiled so diligently , that , in a very short time , a city began to make its appearance . 
At first , to be sure , the workmen showed a quarrelsome disposition . 
And now the city was built , and there was a home in it for each of the workmen . 
When the five workmen beheld the dome , with the morning sunshine making it look golden and glorious , they gave a great shout . 
Long live King Cadmus , they cried , in his beautiful palace . 
, ascended the palace steps . 
Halting at the entrance , they gazed through a long vista of lofty pillars , that were ranged from end to end of a great hall . 
His heart thrilled with delight . 
This is Harmonia , a daughter of the sky , who is given you instead of sister , and brothers , and friend , and mother . 
You will find all those dear ones in her alone . 
They called him father , and Queen Harmonia mother . 
At one time in the course of this weary voyage , he arrived at an island that looked very green and pleasant , but the name of which was unknown to him . 
Immediately after escaping from this peril , a still greater one had befallen him . 
So , taking a spear in his hand , he clambered to the summit of a cliff , and gazed round about him . 
A blue smoke went curling up from the chimney , and was almost the pleasantest part of the spectacle to Ulysses . 
A moment afterwards , a bird came flying towards him , and hovered in the air , so as almost to brush his face with its wings . 
Ulysses tried to catch the bird . 
Have you anything to tell me , little bird ? asked Ulysses . 
As often as Ulysses moved forward , however , the bird showed the greatest alarm , and did its best to drive him back , with the anxious flutter of its purple wings . 
So he resolved , for the present , to return to the vessel , and tell his companions what he had seen . 
This appeared to satisfy the bird . 
, he lugged it along with him , and flung it down before his hungry companions . 
I have already hinted to you what gormandizers some of the comrades of King Ulysses were . 
A dish of venison , however , was no unacceptable meal to them , especially after feeding so long on oysters and clams . 
So , beholding the dead stag , they felt of its ribs , in a knowing way , and lost no time in kindling a fire of driftwood , to cook it . 
The next morning , their appetites were as sharp as ever . 
They looked at Ulysses , as if they expected him to clamber up the cliff again , and come back with another fat deer upon his shoulders . 
Now , said he , when I was on the cliff , yesterday , I discovered that this island is inhabited . 
At a considerable distance from the shore stood a marble palace , which appeared to be very spacious , and had a great deal of smoke curling out of one of its chimneys . 
Aha ! muttered some of his companions , smacking their lips . 
That smoke must have come from the kitchen fire . 
There was a good dinner on the spit and no doubt there will be as good a one to day . 
Either way , murmured some of the hungriest of the crew it will be better than starvation particularly if one could be sure of being well fattened beforehand , and daintily cooked afterwards . 
If these can be obtained , all is well . 
As nobody objected to this scheme , Ulysses proceeded to count the whole band , and found that there were forty six men , including himself . 
Ulysses took command of the remaining twenty two men , in person . 
Then , taking off his helmet , he put two shells into it , on one of which was written , Go , and on the other Stay . 
Another person now held the helmet , while Ulysses and Eurylochus drew out each a shell and the word Go was found written on that which Eurylochus had drawn . 
A gush of smoke came from a chimney in the rear of the edifice . 
This vapor rose high in the air , and , meeting with a breeze , was wafted seaward , and made to pass over the heads of the hungry mariners . 
When people's appetites are keen , they have a very quick scent for anything savory in the wind . 
That smoke comes from the kitchen ! cried one of them , turning up his nose as high as he could , and snuffing eagerly . 
And , as sure as I'm a half starved vagabond , I smell roast meat in it . 
Pig , roast pig ! said another . 
Ah , the dainty little porker . 
My mouth waters for him . 
It hovered about Eurylochus , and almost brushed his face with its wings . 
Peep , peep , pe weep ! chirped the bird . 
Then it flew towards the edge of the cliff , and looked around at them , as if exceedingly anxious that they should return whence they came . 
Eurylochus and a few of the others were inclined to turn back . 
But the rest of the voyagers , snuffing up the smoke from the palace kitchen , ridiculed the idea of returning to the vessel . 
said such a cruel and wicked thing , that I wonder the mere thought did not turn him into a wild beast , in shape , as he already was in his nature . 
This troublesome and impertinent little fowl , said he , would make a delicate titbit to begin dinner with . 
Just one plump morsel , melting away between the teeth . 
If he comes within my reach , I'll catch him , and give him to the palace cook to be roasted on a skewer . 
The words were hardly out of his mouth , before the purple bird flew away , crying , Peep , peep , pe weep , more dolorously than ever . 
That bird , remarked Eurylochus , knows more than we do about what awaits us at the palace . 
Come on , then , cried his comrades , and we'll soon know as much as he does . 
The party , accordingly , went onward through the green and pleasant wood . 
Every little while they caught new glimpses of the marble palace , which looked more and more beautiful the nearer they approached it . 
It was bordered , too , with a great many sweet smelling flowers , such as the mariners had never seen before . 
Well said ! cried the others . 
But I'll warrant you there's a kitchen garden in the rear of the palace . 
At one place they came to a crystal spring , and paused to drink at it for want of liquor which they liked better . 
So ridiculous were these images of themselves , indeed , that they did really laugh aloud , and could hardly be grave again as soon as they wished . 
And after they had drank , they grew still merrier than before . 
It has a twang of the wine cask in it , said one , smacking his lips . 
Make haste ! cried his fellows we'll find the wine cask itself at the palace , and that will be better than a hundred crystal fountains . 
Then they quickened their pace , and capered for joy at the thought of the savory banquet at which they hoped to be guests . 
But Eurylochus told them that he felt as if he were walking in a dream . 
This kind of dreamy feeling always comes over me before any wonderful occurrence . 
If you take my advice , you will turn back . 
No , no , answered his comrades , snuffing the air , in which the scent from the palace kitchen was now very perceptible . 
At length they came within full sight of the palace , which proved to be very large and lofty , with a great number of airy pinnacles upon its roof . 
The terrified mariners started back , expecting no better fate than to be torn to pieces and devoured . 
Their mildness seemed unreal , and a mere freak but their savage nature was as true as their teeth and claws . 
Eurylochus and his followers now passed under a lofty portal , and looked through the open doorway into the interior of the palace . 
The water of this fountain , as it spouted upward , was constantly taking new shapes , not very distinctly , but plainly enough for a nimble fancy to recognize what they were . 
It was either magic or some very curious machinery that caused the gushing waterspout to assume all these forms . 
But , before the strangers had time to look closely at this wonderful sight , their attention was drawn off by a very sweet and agreeable sound . 
What a sweet song that was ! exclaimed one of the voyagers . 
Too sweet , indeed , answered Eurylochus , shaking his head . 
But just listen to the pleasant voices of those maidens , and that buzz of the loom , as the shuttle passes to and fro , said another comrade . 
Let us show ourselves at once . 
No warning or persuasion , however , had any effect on his companions . 
They went up to a pair of folding doors at the farther end of the hall , and throwing them wide open , passed into the next room . 
Eurylochus , meanwhile , had stepped behind a pillar . 
There were four other young women , who joined their hands and danced merrily forward , making gestures of obeisance to the strangers . 
They were only less beautiful than the lady who seemed to be their mistress . 
The folding doors swung quickly back , and left him standing behind the pillar , in the solitude of the outer hall . 
There Eurylochus waited until he was quite weary , and listened eagerly to every sound , but without hearing anything that could help him to guess what had become of his friends . 
Footsteps , it is true , seemed to be passing and repassing , in other parts of the palace . 
Then there was a clatter of silver dishes , or golden ones , which made him imagine a rich feast in a splendid banqueting hall . 
Eurylochus could not conceive what had happened , unless a drove of swine had broken into the palace , attracted by the smell of the feast . 
It looked like nothing but a hog , which lay wallowing in the marble basin , and filled it from brim to brim . 
But we must leave the prudent Eurylochus waiting in the outer hall , and follow his friends into the inner secrecy of the palace . 
As soon as the beautiful woman saw them , she arose from the loom , as I have told you , and came forward , smiling , and stretching out her hand . 
She took the hand of the foremost among them , and bade him and the whole party welcome . 
You have been long expected , my good friends , said she . 
I and my maidens are well acquainted with you , although you do not appear to recognize us . 
Look at this piece of tapestry , and judge if your faces must not have been familiar to us . 
For this purpose , my honored guests , I have ordered a banquet to be prepared . 
Fish , fowl , and flesh , roasted , and in luscious stews , and seasoned , I trust , to all your tastes , are ready to be served up . 
If your appetites tell you it is dinner time , then come with me to the festal saloon . 
, all these followed behind , and hurried the guests along , until they entered a magnificent saloon . 
It was built in a perfect oval , and lighted from a crystal dome above . 
Then you might have seen the guests nodding , winking with one eye , and leaning from one throne to another , to communicate their satisfaction in hoarse whispers . 
Our good hostess has made kings of us all , said one . 
Ha ! do you smell the feast ? I'll engage it will be fit to set before two and twenty kings . 
I hope , said another , it will be , mainly , good substantial joints , sirloins , spareribs , and hinder quarters , without too many kickshaws . 
If I thought the good lady would not take it amiss , I should call for a fat slice of fried bacon to begin with . 
Ah , the gluttons and gormandizers ! You see how it was with them . 
, the beautiful woman and her damsels turned aside , and laughed . 
Even the servants , as they knelt down to present the dishes , might be seen to grin and sneer , while the guests were helping themselves to the offered dainties . 
And , once in a while , the strangers seemed to taste something that they did not like . 
Here is an odd kind of spice in this dish , said one . 
I can't say it quite suits my palate . 
Down it goes , however . 
Send a good draught of wine down your throat , said his comrade on the next throne . 
That is the stuff to make this sort of cookery relish well . 
Though I must needs say , the wine has a queer taste too . 
But the more I drink of it , the better I like the flavor . 
But at length they began to give over , from mere incapacity to hold any more . 
That last bit of fat is too much for me , said one . 
And I have not room for another morsel , said his next neighbor , heaving a sigh . 
What a pity ! My appetite is as sharp as ever . 
In short , they all left off eating , and leaned back on their thrones , with such a stupid and helpless aspect as made them ridiculous to behold . 
And the louder they all laughed , the more stupid and helpless did the two and twenty gormandizers look . 
, she turned it from one guest to another , until each had felt it pointed at himself . 
Wretches , cried she , you have abused a lady's hospitality and in this princely saloon your behavior has been suited to a hog pen . 
But it will require only the slightest exercise of magic to make the exterior conform to the hoggish disposition . 
essayed to give a cry of surprise , but found that he could merely grunt , and that , in a word , he was just such another beast as his companions . 
It looked so intolerably absurd to see hogs on cushioned thrones , that they made haste to wallow down upon all fours , like other swine . 
They tried to groan and beg for mercy , but forthwith emitted the most awful grunting and squealing that ever came out of swinish throats . 
If they had any human reason left , it was just enough to keep them wondering when they should be slaughtered , and what quality of bacon they should make . 
So he ran as fast as he could down the steps , and never stopped to draw breath till he reached the shore . 
Why do you come alone ? asked King Ulysses , as soon as he saw him . 
Where are your two and twenty comrades ? At these questions , Eurylochus burst into tears . 
Alas ! he cried , I greatly fear that we shall never see one of their faces again . 
As for his companions , he could not imagine what had become of them , unless they had been given to the swine to be devoured alive . 
At this intelligence , all the voyagers were greatly affrighted . 
But Ulysses lost no time in girding on his sword , and hanging his bow and quiver over his shoulders , and . 
taking a spear in his right hand . 
When his followers saw their wise leader making these preparations , they inquired whither he was going , and earnestly besought him not to leave them . 
Wait for me here until tomorrow . 
If I do not then return , you must hoist sail , and endeavor to find your way to our native land . 
I will either bring them back with me , or perish . 
Had his followers dared , they would have detained him by force . 
But King Ulysses frowned sternly on them , and shook his spear , and bade them stop him at their peril . 
Seeing him so determined , they let him go , and sat down on the sand , as disconsolate a set of people as could be , waiting and praying for his return . 
What mean you , little bird ? cried Ulysses . 
You are arrayed like a king in purple and gold , and wear a golden crown upon your head . 
Peep ! answered the purple bird , very dolorously . 
But Ulysses had no time to waste in trying to get at the mystery . 
he carried a winged staff , around which two serpents were wriggling and twisting . 
recognized him in a moment . 
Whither are you going in such a hurry , wise Ulysses ? asked Quicksilver . 
dwells in the marble palace which you see yonder among the trees . 
By her magic arts she changes every human being into the brute , beast , or fowl whom he happens most to resemble . 
That little bird , which met me at the edge of the cliff , exclaimed Ulysses was he a human being once ? Yes , answered Quicksilver . 
And my poor companions , said Ulysses . 
But can I do nothing to help them ? inquired Ulysses . 
It will require all your wisdom , said Quicksilver , and a little of my own into the bargain , to keep your royal and sagacious self from being transformed into a fox . 
But do as I bid you and the matter may end better than it has begun . 
Ulysses had been looking at that very spot only just before and it appeared to him that the plant had burst into full flower the instant when Quicksilver touched it with his fingers . 
Take this flower , King Ulysses , said he . 
Guard it as you do your eyesight for I can assure you it is exceedingly rare and precious , and you might seek the whole earth over without ever finding another like it . 
Keep it in your hand , and smell of it frequently after you enter the palace , and while you are talking with the enchantress . 
Especially when she offers you food , or a draught of wine out of her goblet , be careful to fill your nostrils with the flower's fragrance . 
Follow these directions , and you may defy her magic arts to change you into a fox . 
After listening attentively , Ulysses thanked his good friend , and resumed his way . 
The wild beasts yelped and glared at him , and stood at a distance , while he ascended the palace steps . 
On entering the hall , Ulysses saw the magic fountain in the center of it . 
The up gushing water had now again taken the shape of a man in a long , white , fleecy robe , who appeared to be making gestures of welcome . 
But Ulysses did not waste much time in listening to the laughter or the song . 
Welcome , brave stranger ! cried she . 
If such be your pleasure , you shall first take some refreshment , and then join them in the elegant apartment which they now occupy . 
See , I and my maidens have been weaving their figures into this piece of tapestry . 
She pointed to the web of beautifully woven cloth in the loom . 
In this new part , Ulysses saw his two and twenty friends represented as sitting on cushions and canopied thrones , greedily devouring dainties , and quaffing deep draughts of wine . 
The work had not yet gone any further . 
O , no , indeed . 
The enchantress was far too cunning to let Ulysses see the mischief which her magic arts had since brought upon the gormandizers . 
As for yourself , valiant sir , said Circe , judging by the dignity of your aspect , I take you to be nothing less than a king . 
Deign to follow me , and you shall be treated as befits your rank . 
So Ulysses followed her into the oval saloon , where his two and twenty comrades had devoured the banquet , which ended so disastrously for themselves . 
Instead of two and twenty thrones , which had before been ranged around the wall , there was now only a single throne , in the center of the apartment . 
The enchantress took Ulysses by the hand , and made him sit down upon this dazzling throne . 
Then , clapping her hands , she summoned the chief butler . 
Bring hither , said she , the goblet that is set apart for kings to drink out of . 
And fill it with the same delicious wine which my royal brother , King Aetes , praised so highly , when he last visited me with my fair daughter Medea . 
That good and amiable child ! Were she now here , it would delight her to see me offering this wine to my honored guest . 
But Ulysses , while the butler was gone for the wine , held the snow white flower to his nose . 
Is it a wholesome wine ? he asked . 
At this the four maidens tittered whereupon the enchantress looked round at them , with an aspect of severity . 
But , delightfully as the wine looked , it was mingled with the most potent enchantments that Circe knew how to concoct . 
For every drop of the pure grape juice there were two drops of the pure mischief and the danger of the thing was , that the mischief made it taste all the better . 
Drink , my noble guest , said Circe , smiling , as she presented him with the goblet . 
You will find in this draught a solace for all your troubles . 
Then , drinking off all the wine , he looked the enchantress calmly in the face . 
Thou hast quaffed off my wine , and canst be man no longer . 
He gave the magic goblet a toss , and sent it clashing over the marble floor to the farthest end of the saloon . 
Then , drawing his sword , he seized the enchantress by her beautiful ringlets , and made a gesture as if he meant to strike off her head at one blow . 
Wicked Circe , cried he , in a terrible voice , this sword shall put an end to thy enchant meets . 
Thou shalt die , vile wretch , and do no more mischief in the world , by tempting human beings into the vices which make beasts of them . 
Spare me ! cried Circe . 
Spare me , royal and wise Ulysses . 
For now I know that thou art he of whom Quicksilver forewarned me , the most prudent of mortals , against whom no enchantments can prevail . 
Thou only couldst have conquered Circe . 
Spare me , wisest of men . 
I will show thee true hospitality , and even give myself to be thy slave , and this magnificent palace to be henceforth thy home . 
On these conditions , said he , I consent to spare your life . 
Otherwise you must die upon the spot . 
With a drawn sword hanging over her , the enchantress would readily have consented to do as much good as she had hitherto done mischief , however little she might like such employment . 
She therefore led Ulysses out of the back entrance of the palace , and showed him the swine in their sty . 
When men once turn to brutes , the trifle of man's wit that remains in them adds tenfold to their brutality . 
The comrades of Ulysses , however , had not quite lost the remembrance of having formerly stood erect . 
And yet they did not seem to know what they wanted , nor whether they were merely hungry , or miserable from some other cause . 
It was curious , in the midst of their distress , to observe them thrusting their noses into the mire , in quest of something to eat . 
These must certainly be my comrades , said Ulysses . 
They are hardly worth the trouble of changing them into the human form again . 
Nevertheless , we will have it done , lest their bad example should corrupt the other hogs . 
Let them take their original shapes , therefore , Dame Circe , if your skill is equal to the task . 
It will require greater magic , I trow , than it did to make swine of them . 
So Circe waved her wand again , and repeated a few magic words , at the sound of which the two and twenty hogs pricked up their pendulous ears . 
smaller and smaller , and how one and another began to stand upon his hind legs , and scratch his nose with his fore trotters . 
At first the spectators hardly knew whether to call them hogs or men , but by and by came to the conclusion that they rather resembled the latter . 
Finally , there stood the twenty two comrades of Ulysses , looking pretty much the same as when they left the vessel . 
You must not imagine , however , that the swinish quality had entirely gone out of them . 
When once it fastens itself into a person's character , it is very difficult getting rid of it . 
Then , recollecting themselves , they scrambled to their feet , and looked more than commonly foolish . 
Thanks , noble Ulysses ! they cried . 
From brute beasts you have restored us to the condition of men again . 
Do not put yourselves to the trouble of thanking me , said the wise king . 
I fear I have done but little for you . 
It must depend on your own future behavior , added Ulysses , whether you do not find your way back to the sty . 
At this moment , the note of a bird sounded from the branch of a neighboring tree . 
Ulysses ordered Circe instantly to make a king of this good little fowl , and leave him exactly as she found him . 
He and King Ulysses exchanged with one another the courtesies which belong to their elevated rank . 
So he let them howl as much as they liked , but never troubled his head about them . 
And , when everything was settled according to his pleasure , he sent to summon the remainder of his comrades , whom he had left at the sea shore . 
Mother Ceres was exceedingly fond of her daughter Proserpina , and seldom let her go alone into the fields . 
, and got into her car drawn by a pair of winged dragons , and was just ready to set off . 
Dear mother , said Proserpina , I shall be very lonely while you are away . 
The sea nymphs are good creatures , and will never lead you into any harm . 
But you must take care not to stray away from them , nor go wandering about the fields by yourself . 
Young girls , without their mothers to take care of them , are very apt to get into mischief . 
They knew Proserpina's voice , and were not long in showing their glistening faces and sea green hair above the water , at the bottom of which was their home . 
O no , dear Proserpina , cried the sea nymphs we dare not go with you upon the dry land . 
We are apt to grow faint , unless at every breath we can snuff up the salt breeze of the ocean . 
It is a great pity , said Proserpina . 
I long to make you some wreaths that shall be as lovely as this necklace of many colored shells . 
We will wait , then , answered the sea nymphs . 
But while you are gone , we may as well lie down on a bank of soft sponge under the water . 
The air to day is a little too dry for our comfort . 
But we will pop up our heads every few minutes to see if you are coming . 
The young Proserpina ran quickly to a spot where , only the day before , she had seen a great many flowers . 
Proserpina's apron was soon filled , and brimming over with delightful blossoms . 
She was on the point of turning back in order to rejoin the sea nymphs , and sit with them on the moist sands , all twining wreaths together . 
But , a little farther on , what should she behold ? It was a large shrub , completely covered with the most magnificent flowers in the world . 
The darlings ! cried Proserpina and then she thought to herself , I was looking at that spot only a moment ago . 
But there was a deep , glossy luster on the leaves of the shrub , and on the petals of the flowers , that made Proserpina doubt whether they might not be poisonous . 
To tell you the truth , foolish as it may seem , she was half inclined to turn round and run away . 
What a silly child I am ! thought she , taking courage . 
It is really the most beautiful shrub that ever sprang out of the earth . 
I will pull it up by the roots , and carry it home , and plant it in my mother's garden . 
What a deep rooted plant it was ! Again the girl pulled with all her might , and observed that the earth began to stir and crack to some distance around the stem . 
She gave another pull , but relaxed her hold , fancying that there was a rumbling sound right beneath her feet . 
In the chariot sat the figure of a man , richly dressed , with a crown on his head , all flaming with diamonds . 
As soon as this personage saw the affrighted Proserpina , he beckoned her to come a little nearer . 
Do not be afraid , said he , with as cheerful a smile as he knew how to put on . 
As is always the case with children in trouble , Proserpina's first thought was to call for her mother . 
Mother , Mother Ceres ! cried she , all in a tremble . 
Come quickly and save me . 
But her voice was too faint for her mother to hear . 
Indeed , it is most probable that Ceres was then a thousand miles off , making the corn grow in some far distant country . 
They immediately broke into so swift a gallop , that it seemed rather like flying through the air than running along the earth . 
In a moment , Proserpina lost sight of the pleasant vale of Enna , in which she had always dwelt . 
Another instant , and even the summit of Mount Aetna had become so blue in the distance , that she could scarcely distinguish it from the smoke that gushed out of its crater . 
But Mother Ceres was a great way off , and could not hear the cry . 
As they rode on , the stranger did his best to soothe her . 
Why should you be so frightened , my pretty child ? said he , trying to soften his rough voice . 
I promise not to do you any harm . 
Can you guess who I am ? They call my name Pluto and I am the king of diamonds and all other precious stones . 
Do you see this splendid crown upon my head ? You may have it for a plaything . 
O , we shall be very good friends , and you will find me more agreeable than you expect , when once we get out of this troublesome sunshine . 
Let me go home ! cried Proserpina . 
Let me go home ! My home is better than your mother's , answered King Pluto . 
It is a palace , all made of gold , with crystal windows and because there is little or no sunshine thereabouts , the apartments are illuminated with diamond lamps . 
You never saw anything half so magnificent as my throne . 
If you like , you may sit down on it , and be my little queen , and I will sit on the footstool . 
I don't care for golden palaces and thrones , sobbed Proserpina . 
Oh , my mother , my mother ! Carry me back to my mother ! But King Pluto , as he called himself , only shouted to his steeds to go faster . 
Pray do not be foolish , Proserpina , said he , in rather a sullen tone . 
I offer you my palace and my crown , and all the riches that are under the earth and you treat me as if I were doing you an injury . 
The one thing which my palace needs is a merry little maid , to run upstairs and down , and cheer up the rooms with her smile . 
And this is what you must do for King Pluto . 
Never ! answered Proserpina , looking as miserable as she could . 
I shall never smile again till you set me down at my mother's door . 
But she might just as well have talked to the wind that whistled past them , for Pluto urged on his horses , and went faster than ever . 
The child mustered all her strength , and gave one more scream , but was out of sight before Ceres had time to turn her head . 
King Pluto had taken a road which now began to grow excessively gloomy . 
It was bordered on each side with rocks and precipices , between which the rumbling of the chariot wheels was reverberated with a noise like rolling thunder . 
The black horses had rushed along so swiftly , that they were already beyond the limits of the sunshine . 
But the duskier it grew , the more did Pluto's visage assume an air of satisfaction . 
After all , he was not an ill looking person , especially when he left off twisting his features into a smile that did not belong to them . 
Proserpina peeped at his face through the gathering dusk , and hoped that he might not be so very wicked as she at first thought him . 
Ah , this twilight is truly refreshing , said King Pluto , after being so tormented with that ugly and impertinent glare of the sun . 
How much more agreeable is lamplight or torchlight , more particularly when reflected from diamonds ! It will be a magnificent sight , when we get to my palace . 
Is it much farther ? asked Proserpina . 
And will you carry me back when I have seen it ? We will talk of that by and by , answered Pluto . 
We are just entering my dominions . 
Do you see that tall gateway before us ? When we pass those gates , we are at home . 
And there lies my faithful mastiff at the threshold . 
The mastiff of which he had spoken got up from the threshold , and stood on his hinder legs , so as to put his fore paws on the chariot wheel . 
He seemed as fond of his three headed dog as if it had been a sweet little spaniel , with silken ears and curly hair . 
Cerberus , on the other hand , was evidently rejoiced to see his master , and expressed his attachment , as other dogs do , by wagging his tail at a great rate . 
Will the dog bite me ? asked Proserpina , shrinking closer to Pluto . 
What an ugly creature he is ! O , never fear , answered her companion . 
He never harms people , unless they try to enter my dominions without being sent for , or to get away when I wish to keep them here . 
Down , Cerberus ! Now , my pretty Proserpina , we will drive on . 
On went the chariot , and King Pluto seemed greatly pleased to find himself once more in his own kingdom . 
Not far from the gateway , they came to a bridge , which seemed to be built of iron . 
Pluto stopped the chariot , and bade Proserpina look at the stream which was gliding so lazily beneath it . 
This is the River Lethe , observed King Pluto . 
Is it not a very pleasant stream ? I think it a very dismal one , answered Proserpina . 
It suits my taste , however , answered Pluto , who was apt to be sullen when anybody disagreed with him . 
At all events , its water has one excellent quality for a single draught of it makes people forget every care and sorrow that has hitherto tormented them . 
I will send for some , in a golden goblet , the moment we arrive . 
O , no , no , no ! cried Proserpina , weeping afresh . 
I had a thousand times rather be miserable with remembering my mother , than be happy in forgetting her . 
That dear , dear mother ! I never , never will forget her . 
We shall see , said King Pluto . 
You do not know what fine times we will have in my palace . 
Here we are just at the portal . 
These pillars are solid gold , I assure you . 
He alighted from the chariot , and taking Proserpina in his arms , carried her up a lofty flight of steps into the great hall of the palace . 
I will neither drink that nor anything else , said Proserpina . 
Nor will I taste a morsel of food , even if you keep me forever in your palace . 
I should be sorry for that , replied King Pluto , patting her cheek for he really wished to be kind , if he had only known how . 
You are a spoiled child , I perceive , my little Proserpina but when you see the nice things which my cook will make for you , your appetite will quickly come again . 
Then , sending for the head cook , he gave strict orders that all sorts of delicacies , such as young people are usually fond of , should be set before Proserpina . 
, it is very probable that she would soon have been tempted to eat it . 
But my story must now clamber out of King Pluto's dominions , and see what Mother Ceres had been about , since she was bereft of her daughter . 
You recollect , too , the loud scream which Proserpina gave , just when the chariot was out of sight . 
Of all the child's outcries , this last shriek was the only one that reached the ears of Mother Ceres . 
, that the good Ceres tried to believe that it must be the child of some other parent , and not her own darling Proserpina , who had uttered this lamentable cry . 
The pair of dragons must have had very nimble wings for , in less than an hour , Mother Ceres had alighted at the door of her home , and found it empty . 
When they saw Mother Ceres , they sat down on the crest of the surf wave , and let it toss them ashore at her feet . 
Where is Proserpina ? cried Ceres . 
We never should dream of such a thing . 
This was early in the day , and we have seen nothing of her since . 
Ceres scarcely waited to hear what the nymphs had to say , before she hurried off to make inquiries all through the neighborhood . 
But nobody told her anything that would enable the poor mother to guess what had become of Proserpina . 
So she lighted a torch , and set forth , resolving never to come back until Proserpina was discovered . 
At all events , this was the way in which she began her sorrowful journey , holding her torch before her , and looking carefully at every object along the path . 
And as it happened , she had not gone far before she found one of the magnificent flowers which grew on the shrub that Proserpina had pulled up . 
Ha ! thought Mother Ceres , examining it by torchlight . 
Here is mischief in this flower ! The earth did not produce it by any help of mine , nor of its own accord . 
It is the work of enchantment , and is therefore poisonous and perhaps it has poisoned my poor child . 
But she put the poisonous flower in her bosom , not knowing whether she might ever find any other memorial of Proserpina . 
But nobody had seen Proserpina , nor could give Mother Ceres the least hint which way to seek her . 
It was not merely of human beings that she asked tidings of her daughter . 
But not one of these leafy damsels had seen Proserpina . 
there would have been only a dusky twilight but it so happened that a torch was burning there . 
It flickered , and struggled with the duskiness , but could not half light up the gloomy cavern with all its melancholy glimmer . 
I am wretched enough now , thought poor Ceres , to talk with this melancholy Hecate , were she ten times sadder than ever she was yet . 
So she stepped into the cave , and sat down on the withered leaves by the dog headed woman's side . 
In all the world , since her daughter's loss , she had found no other companion . 
O Hecate , said she , if ever you lose a daughter , you will know what sorrow is . 
Something terrible has happened to the child , you may rest assured . 
As well as I could judge , a dragon , or some other cruel monster , was carrying her away . 
You kill me by saying so , cried Ceres , almost ready to faint . 
I can tell you nothing more , except that , in my honest opinion , you will never see your daughter again . 
The best advice I can give you is , to take up your abode in this cavern , where we will be the two most wretched women in the world . 
Not yet , dark Hecate , replied Ceres . 
But do you first come with your torch , and help me to seek for my lost child . 
But , until I know that she has perished from the face of the earth , I will not allow myself space even to grieve . 
The dismal Hecate did not much like the idea of going abroad into the sunny world . 
So she finally consented to go , and they set out together , both carrying torches , although it was broad daylight and clear sunshine . 
As the pair traveled along in this woe begone manner , a thought struck Ceres . 
There is one person , she exclaimed , who must have seen my poor child , and can doubtless tell what has become of her . 
Why did not I think of him before ? It is Phoebus . 
What , said Hecate , the young man that always sits in the sunshine ? O , pray do not think of going near him . 
He is a gay , light , frivolous young fellow , and will only smile in your face . 
And besides , there is such a glare of the sun about him , that he will quite blind my poor eyes , which I have almost wept away already . 
You have promised to be my companion , answered Ceres . 
Come , let us make haste , or the sunshine will be gone , and Phoebus along with it . 
By and by , after a pretty long journey , they arrived at the sunniest spot in the whole world . 
had a lyre in his hands , and was making its chords tremble with sweet music at the same time singing a most exquisite song , which he had recently composed . 
For , beside a great many other accomplishments , this young man was renowned for his admirable poetry . 
But as for Ceres , she was too earnest in her grief either to know or care whether Phoebus smiled or frowned . 
Phoebus ! exclaimed she , I am in great trouble , and have come to you for assistance . 
Ah , yes , I remember her now . 
A very lovely child , indeed . 
I am happy to tell you , my dear madam , that I did see the little Proserpina not many days ago . 
You may make yourself perfectly easy about her . 
She is safe , and in excellent hands . 
O , where is my dear child ? cried Ceres , clasping her hands , and flinging herself at his feet . 
, she was suddenly snatched up by King Pluto , and carried off to his dominions . 
Gold , diamonds , pearls , and all manner of precious stones will be your daughter's ordinary playthings . 
I recommend to you , my dear lady , to give yourself no uneasiness . 
Proserpina's sense of beauty will be duly gratified , and even in spite of the lack of sunshine , she will lead a very enviable life . 
Hush ! Say not such a word ! answered Ceres , indignantly . 
What is there to gratify her heart ? What are all the splendors you speak of without affection ? I must have her back again . 
Will you go with me you go with me , Phoebus , to demand my daughter of this wicked Pluto ? Pray excuse me , replied Phoebus , with an elegant obeisance . 
I certainly wish you success , and regret that my own affairs are so immediately pressing that I cannot have the pleasure of attending you . 
Besides , I am not upon the best of terms with King Pluto . 
Ah , Phoebus , said Ceres , with bitter meaning in her words , you have a harp instead of a heart . 
Accordingly , though Phoebus sang a very sad song , he was as merry all the while as were the sunbeams amid which he dwelt . 
Poor Mother Ceres had now found out what had become of her daughter , but was not a whit happier than before . 
Her case , on the contrary , looked more desperate than ever . 
As long as Proserpina was above ground , there might have been hopes of regaining her . 
And Hecate took her at her word , and hurried back to her beloved cave , frightening a great many little children with a glimpse of her dog's face as she went . 
So much did she suffer , that , though her aspect had been quite youthful when her troubles began , she grew to look like an elderly person in a very brief time . 
She cared not how she was dressed , nor had she ever thought of flinging away the wreath of withered poppies , which she put on the very morning of Proserpina's disappearance . 
There was nothing , now , in which Ceres seemed to feel an interest , unless when she saw children at play , or gathering flowers along the wayside . 
Then , indeed , she would stand and gaze at them with tears in her eyes . 
One day , during her pilgrimage in quest of the entrance to Pluto's kingdom , she came to the palace of King Cereus , who reigned at Eleusis . 
Ascending a lofty flight of steps , she entered the portal , and found the royal household in very great alarm about the queen's baby . 
, and would take no food , and was all the time moaning with pain . 
Will you trust the child entirely to me ? asked Ceres . 
Yes , and gladly , too , answered the queen , if you will devote all your time to him . 
For I can see that you have been a mother . 
You are right , said Ceres . 
I once had a child of my own . 
Well I will be the nurse of this poor , sickly boy . 
But beware , I warn you , that you do not interfere with any kind of treatment which I may judge proper for him . 
If you do so , the poor infant must suffer for his mother's folly . 
Then she kissed the child , and it seemed to do him good for he smiled and nestled closely into her bosom . 
, and took up her abode in the palace of King Cereus , as nurse to the little Prince Demophoon . 
, he was now a strapping baby , crowing , laughing , kicking up his heels , and rolling from one end of the room to the other . 
All the good women of the neighborhood crowded to the palace , and held up their hands , in unutterable amazement , at the beauty and wholesomeness of this darling little prince . 
Their wonder was the greater , because he was never seen to taste any food not even so much as a cup of milk . 
But Queen Metanira , as was very natural , had a great curiosity to know precisely what the nurse did to her child . 
One night , therefore , she hid herself in the chamber where Ceres and the little prince were accustomed to sleep . 
Ceres sat before the hearth with the child in her lap , and the firelight making her shadow dance upon the ceiling overhead . 
She undressed the little prince , and bathed him all over with some fragrant liquid out of a vase . 
The next thing she did was to rake back the red embers , and make a hollow place among them , just where the backlog had been . 
, Ceres suddenly laid him , all naked as he was , in the hollow among the red hot embers . 
She then raked the ashes over him , and turned quietly away . 
You may imagine , if you can , how Queen Metanira shrieked , thinking nothing less than that her dear child would be burned to a cinder . 
He immediately set up a grievous cry , as babies are apt to do , when rudely startled out of a sound sleep . 
To the queen's astonishment and joy , she could perceive no token of the child's being injured by the hot fire in which he had lain . 
She now turned to Mother Ceres , and asked her to explain the mystery . 
Foolish woman , answered Ceres , did you not promise to intrust this poor infant entirely to me ? You little know the mischief you have done him . 
Had you left him to my care , he would have grown up like a child of celestial birth , endowed with superhuman strength and intelligence , and would have lived forever . 
Do you imagine that earthly children are to become immortal without being tempered to it in the fiercest heat of the fire ? But you have ruined your own son . 
The weak tenderness of his mother has cost the poor boy an immortality . 
Poor baby ! He never slept so warmly again . 
But now , having nothing else to busy herself about , she became just as wretched as before . 
She even forbade the flowers to bloom , lest somebody's heart should be cheered by their beauty . 
The husbandmen plowed and planted as usual but there lay the rich black furrows , all as barren as a desert of sand . 
The pastures looked as brown in the sweet month of June as ever they did in chill November . 
The rich man's broad acres and the cottager's small garden patch were equally blighted . 
Every little girl's flower bed showed nothing but dry stalks . 
But Mother Ceres , though naturally of an affectionate disposition , was now inexorable . 
If the earth is ever again to see any verdure , it must first grow along the path which my daughter will tread in coming back to me . 
And while they settle their business together , we must inquire what Proserpina had been doing ever since we saw her last . 
The child had declared , as you may remember , that she would not taste a mouthful of food as long as she should be compelled to remain in King Pluto's palace . 
All this time , being of a cheerful and active disposition , the little damsel was not quite so unhappy as you may have supposed . 
The immense palace had a thousand rooms , and was full of beautiful and wonderful objects . 
After Proserpina came , the palace was no longer the same abode of stately artifice and dismal magnificence that it had before been . 
The inhabitants all felt this , and King Pluto more than any of them . 
My own little Proserpina , he used to say . 
I wish you could like me a little better . 
We gloomy and cloudy natured persons have often as warm hearts , at bottom , as those of a more cheerful character . 
If you would only stay with me of your own accord , it would make me happier than the possession of a hundred such palaces as this . 
Ah , said Proserpina , you should have tried to make me like you before carrying me off . 
And the best thing you can now do is , to let me go again . 
Then I might remember you sometimes , and think that you were as kind as you knew how to be . 
Perhaps , too , one day or other , I might come back , and pay you a visit . 
No , no , answered Pluto , with his gloomy smile , I will not trust you for that . 
You are too fond of living in the broad daylight , and gathering flowers . 
O my sweet violets , shall I never see you again ? And then she burst into tears . 
King Pluto gazed after her , and wished that he , too , was a child . 
She ran back to him , and , for the first time in all her life , put her small , soft hand in his . 
I love you a little , whispered she , looking up in his face . 
Well , I have not deserved it of you , after keeping you a prisoner for so many months , and starving you besides . 
No indeed , said Proserpina . 
Your head cook is always baking , and stewing , and roasting , and rolling out paste , and contriving one dish or another , which he imagines may be to my liking . 
But he might just as well save himself the trouble , poor , fat little man that he is . 
I have no appetite for anything in the world , unless it were a slice of bread , of my mother's own baking , or a little fruit out of her garden . 
When Pluto heard this , he began to see that he had mistaken the best method of tempting Proserpina to eat . 
The cook's made dishes and artificial dainties were not half so delicious , in the good child's opinion , as the simple fare to which Mother Ceres had accustomed her . 
Nevertheless , since there was no better to be had , he brought this dry , old withered pomegranate home to the palace . 
put it on a magnificent golden salver , and carried it up to Proserpina . 
As soon as Proserpina saw the pomegranate on the golden salver , she told the servant he had better take it away again . 
I shall not touch it , I assure you , said she . 
If I were ever so hungry , I should never think of eating such a miserable , dry pomegranate as that . 
It is the only one in the world , said the servant . 
He set down the golden salver , with the wizened pomegranate upon it , and left the room . 
To be sure , it was a very wretched looking pomegranate , and seemed to have no more juice in it than an oyster shell . 
But there was no choice of such things in King Pluto's palace . 
At least , I may smell it , thought Proserpina . 
Dear me ! what an everlasting pity ! Before Proserpina knew what she was about , her teeth had actually bitten it , of their own accord . 
At the first noise of their entrance , Proserpina withdrew the pomegranate from her mouth . 
perceived that the child was a little confused and seeing the empty salver , he suspected that she had been taking a sly nibble of something or other . 
As for honest Pluto , he never guessed at the secret . 
To confess the truth , I myself had already reflected that it was an unjustifiable act to take you away from your good mother . 
, and that I am not of the most cheerful disposition , and that therefore it was a natural thing enough to seek for the society of some merrier creature than myself . 
I hoped you would take my crown for a plaything , and me ah , you laugh , naughty Proserpina me , grim as I am , for a playmate . 
It was a silly expectation . 
Not so extremely silly , whispered Proserpina . 
You have really amused me very much , sometimes . 
Thank you , said King Pluto , rather dryly . 
But I can see plainly enough , that you think my palace a dusky prison , and me the iron hearted keeper of it . 
And an iron heart I should surely have , if I could detain you here any longer , my poor child , when it is now six months since you tasted food . 
I give you your liberty . 
Hasten home to your dear mother . 
I know not how many kind things she might have said to the disconsolate king of the mines , had not Quicksilver hurried her way . 
Come along quickly , whispered he in her ear , or his majesty may change his royal mind . 
And take care , above all things , that you say nothing of what was brought you on the golden salver . 
, and emerged upon the surface of the earth . 
It was delightful to behold , as Proserpina hastened along , how the path grew verdant behind and on either side of her . 
Wherever she set her blessed foot , there was at once a dewy flower . 
The violets gushed up along the wayside . 
The grass and the grain began to sprout with tenfold vigor and luxuriance , to make up for the dreary months that had been wasted in barrenness . 
The starved cattle immediately set to work grazing , after their long fast , and ate enormously , all day , and got up at midnight to eat more . 
But I can assure you it was a busy time of year with the farmers , when they found the summer coming upon them with such a rush . 
Nor must I forget to say , that all the birds in the whole world hopped about upon the newly blossoming trees , and sang together , in a prodigious ecstasy of joy . 
Mother Ceres had returned to her deserted home , and was sitting disconsolately on the doorstep , with her torch burning in her hand . 
She had been idly watching the flame for some moments past , when , all at once , it flickered and went out . 
What does this mean ? thought she . 
It was an enchanted torch , and should have kept burning till my child came back . 
Does the earth disobey me ? xclaimed Mother Ceres , indignantly . 
And Proserpina came running , and flung herself upon her mother's bosom . 
Their mutual transport is not to be described . 
When their hearts had grown a little more quiet , Mother Ceres looked anxiously at Proserpina . 
My child , said she , did you taste any food while you were in King Pluto's palace ? Dearest mother , exclaimed Proserpina , I will tell you the whole truth . 
Until this very morning , not a morsel of food had passed my lips . 
, and having seen no fruit for so long a time , and being faint with hunger , I was tempted just to bite it . 
The instant I tasted it , King Pluto and Quicksilver came into the room . 
I had not swallowed a morsel but dear mother , I hope it was no harm but six of the pomegranate seeds , I am afraid , remained in my mouth . 
Ah , unfortunate child , and miserable me ! exclaimed Ceres . 
For each of those six pomegranate seeds you must spend one month of every year in King Pluto's palace . 
You are but half restored to your mother . 
Only six months with me , and six with that good for nothing King of Darkness ! Do not speak so harshly of poor King Pluto , said Prosperina , kissing her mother . 
He has some very good qualities and I really think I can bear to spend six months in his palace , if he will only let me spend the other six with you . 
This learned person was one of the people , or quadrupeds , called Centaurs . 
He lived in a cavern , and had the body and legs of a white horse , with the head and shoulders of a man . 
The famous Hercules was one , and so was Achilles , and Philoctetes likewise , and Aesculapius , who acquired immense repute as a doctor . 
Little children , not quite understanding what is said to them , often get such absurd notions into their heads , you know . 
, that Chiron , with the head of a schoolmaster , had the body and legs of a horse . 
At length , being now a tall and athletic youth , Jason resolved to seek his fortune in the world , without asking Chiron's advice , or telling him anything about the matter . 
This was very unwise , to be sure and I hope none of you , my little hearers , will ever follow Jason's example . 
The part of his dress on which he most prided himself was a pair of sandals , that had been his father's . 
They were handsomely embroidered , and were tied upon his feet with strings of gold . 
The bed of the stream seemed to be strewn with sharp and rugged rocks , some of which thrust themselves above the water . 
By and by , an uprooted tree , with shattered branches , came drifting along the current , and got entangled among the rocks . 
Now and then , a drowned sheep , and once the carcass of a cow , floated past . 
In short , the swollen river had already done a great deal of mischief . 
See the poor lad , said a cracked voice close to his side . 
He must have had but a poor education , since he does not know how to cross a little stream like this . 
But beside him stood an old woman , with a ragged mantle over her head , leaning on a staff , the top of which was carved into the shape of a cuckoo . 
The old woman had a pomegranate in her hand , although the fruit was then quite out of season . 
Whither are you going , Jason ? she now asked . 
She seemed to know his name , you will observe and , indeed , those great brown eyes looked as if they had a knowledge of everything , whether past or to come . 
While Jason was gazing at her , a peacock strutted forward , and took his stand at the old woman's side . 
I am going to Iolchos , answered the young man , to bid the wicked King Pelias come down from my father's throne , and let me reign in his stead . 
Just take me on your back , there's a good youth , and carry me across the river . 
I and my peacock have something to do on the other side , as well as yourself . 
Good mother , replied Jason , your business can hardly be so important as the pulling down a king from his throne . 
I would gladly help you if I could but I doubt whether I am strong enough to carry you across . 
Then , said she , very scornfully , neither are you strong enough to pull King Pelias off his throne . 
And , Jason , unless you will help an old woman at her need , you ought not to be a king . 
What are kings made for , save to succor the feeble and distressed ? But do as you please . 
Either take me on your back , or with my poor old limbs I shall try my best to struggle across the stream . 
Saying this , the old woman poked with her staff in the river , as if to find the safest place in its rocky bed where she might make the first step . 
But Jason , by this time , had grown ashamed of his reluctance to help her . 
He felt that he could never forgive himself , if this poor feeble creature should come to any harm in attempting to wrestle against the headlong current . 
Remembering these maxims , the vigorous and beautiful young man knelt down , and requested the good dame to mount upon his back . 
The passage seems to me not very safe , he remarked . 
But as your business is so urgent , I will try to carry you across . 
If the river sweeps you away , it shall take me too . 
That , no doubt , will be a great comfort to both of us , quoth the old woman . 
We shall get safely across . 
So she threw her arms around Jason's neck and lifting her from the ground , he stepped boldly into the raging and foaming current , and began to stagger away from the shore . 
As for the peacock , it alighted on the old dame's shoulder . 
broke loose from among the rocks , and bore down upon him , with all its splintered branches sticking out like the hundred arms of the giant Briareus . 
It rushed past , however , without touching him . 
At this accident Jason could not help uttering a cry of vexation . 
What is the matter , Jason ? asked the old woman . 
Matter enough , said the young man . 
I have lost a sandal here among the rocks . 
You never met with better fortune than in losing that sandal . 
It satisfies me that you are the very person whom the Speaking Oak has been talking about . 
There was no time , just then , to inquire what the Speaking Oak had said . 
You will get a handsomer pair of sandals by and by , said the old woman , with a kindly look out of her beautiful brown eyes . 
Only let King Pelias get a glimpse of that bare foot , and you shall see him turn as pale as ashes , I promise you . 
Go along , my good Jason , and my blessing go with you . 
And when you sit on your throne remember the old woman whom you helped over the river . 
With these words , she hobbled away , giving him a smile over her shoulder as she departed . 
Her peacock , which had now fluttered down from her shoulder , strutted behind her in a prodigious pomp , and spread out its magnificent tail on purpose for Jason to admire it . 
When the old dame and her peacock were out of sight , Jason set forward on his journey . 
After traveling a pretty long distance , he came to a town situated at the foot of a mountain , and not a great way from the shore of the sea . 
The crowd was thickest towards the sea shore and in that direction , over the people's heads , Jason saw a wreath of smoke curling upward to the blue sky . 
He inquired of one of the multitude what town it was near by , and why so many persons were here assembled together . 
This is the kingdom of Iolchos , answered the man , and we are the subjects of King Pelias . 
Our monarch has summoned us together , that we may see him sacrifice a black bull to Neptune , who , they say , is his majesty's father . 
Yonder is the king , where you see the smoke going up from the altar . 
Look at him ! only look at him ! said the man to his next neighbor . 
Besides , he could hear them whispering to one another . 
One sandal ! One sandal ! they kept saying . 
The people had now withdrawn from around him , so that the youth stood in an open space , near the smoking altar , front to front with the angry King Pelias . 
Who are you ? cried the king , with a terrible frown . 
And how dare you make this disturbance , while I am sacrificing a black bull to my father Neptune ? It is no fault of mine , answered Jason . 
Your majesty must blame the rudeness of your subjects , who have raised all this tumult because one of my feet happens to be bare . 
When Jason said this , the king gave a quick startled glance down at his feet . 
The people round about caught up the king's words , indistinctly as they were uttered and first there was a murmur amongst them , and then a loud shout . 
In the whole course of the king's reign , he had never been thrown into such a fright and agitation as by the spectacle of poor Jason's bare foot . 
My good young man , said King Pelias , taking the softest tone imaginable , in order to throw Jason off his guard , you are excessively welcome to my kingdom . 
Judging by your dress , you must have traveled a long distance , for it is not the fashion to wear leopard skins in this part of the world . 
Pray what may I call your name ? and where did you receive your education ? My name is Jason , answered the young stranger . 
Ever since my infancy , I have dwelt in the cave of Chiron the Centaur . 
It gives me great delight to see one of his scholars at my court . 
But ask me what you please , and I will answer to the best of my ability . 
Now King Pelias meant cunningly to entrap the young man , and to make him say something that should be the cause of mischief and distraction to himself . 
Still he scorned to tell a falsehood . 
Like an upright and honorable prince as he was , he determined to speak out the real truth . 
Therefore , after a moment's consideration , he spoke up , with a firm and manly voice . 
In the first place it would be necessary to make a long voyage through unknown seas . 
The eyes of King Pelias sparkled with joy , therefore , when he heard Jason's reply . 
Well said , wise man with the one sandal ! cried he . 
Go , then , and at the peril of your life , bring me back the Golden Fleece . 
I go , answered Jason , composedly . 
If I fail , you need not fear that I will ever come back to trouble you again . 
But if I return to Iolchos with the prize , then , King Pelias , you must hasten down from your lofty throne , and give me your crown and sceptre . 
That I will , said the king , with a sneer . 
Meantime , I will keep them very safely for you . 
This wonderful tree stood in the center of an ancient wood . 
Its stately trunk rose up a hundred feet into the air , and threw a broad and dense shadow over more than an acre of ground . 
The sound grew louder , and became like the roar of a high wind . 
Then the voice melted again into the indistinct murmur of the rustling leaves , and died gradually away . 
And , as the Talking Oak had already given him such good advice , Jason thought that it would not be amiss to ask for a little more . 
He visited it again , therefore , and standing beside its huge , rough trunk , inquired what he should do next . 
This time , there was no such universal quivering of the leaves , throughout the whole tree , as there had been before . 
Cut me off ! said the branch , as soon as it could speak distinctly cut me off ! cut me off ! and carve me into a figure head for your galley . 
Accordingly , Jason took the branch at its word , and lopped it off the tree . 
A carver in the neighborhood engaged to make the figurehead . 
On the left arm was a shield , and in its center appeared a lifelike representation of the head of Medusa with the snaky locks . 
The right arm was extended , as if pointing onward . 
And now , cried he , as he stood gazing at the calm , majestic face of the statue , I must go to the Talking Oak and inquire what next to do . 
There is no need of that , Jason , said a voice which , though it was far lower , reminded him of the mighty tones of the great oak . 
When you desire good advice , you can seek it of me . 
Jason had been looking straight into the face of the image when these words were spoken . 
But he could hardly believe either his ears or his eyes . 
The truth was , however , that the oaken lips had moved , and , to all appearance , the voice had proceeded from the statue's mouth . 
It would have been very odd , indeed , if it had not . 
But certainly it was a great piece of good fortune that he should be able to carry so wise a block of wood along with him in his perilous voyage . 
Go , replied the oaken image , go , summon all the heroes of Greece . 
And Jason himself would be the fiftieth . 
At this news , the adventurous youths , all over the country , began to bestir themselves . 
There was a fair prospect that they would meet with plenty of such adventures before finding the Golden Fleece . 
Many of these brave fellows had been educated by Chiron , the four footed pedagogue , and were therefore old schoolmates of Jason , and knew him to be a lad of spirit . 
The mighty Hercules , whose shoulders afterwards upheld the sky , was one of them . 
One of the rowers was a beautiful young woman , named Atalanta . 
who had been nursed among the mountains by a bear . 
She had grown up in a very wild way , and talked much about the rights of women , and loved hunting and war far better than her needle . 
who had wings on their shoulders , and , in case of a calm , could puff out their cheeks , and blow almost as fresh a breeze as their father . 
Jason appointed Tiphys to be helmsman because he was a star gazer , and knew the points of the compass . 
To confess the truth , few people believed him when he said it . 
Well ! But when the Argonauts , as these fifty brave adventurers were called , had prepared everything for the voyage , an unforeseen difficulty threatened to end it before it was begun . 
The vessel , you must understand , was so long , and broad , and ponderous , that the united force of all the fifty was insufficient to shove her into the water . 
Hercules , I suppose , had not grown to his full strength , else he might have set her afloat as easily as a little boy launches his boat upon a puddle . 
But here were these fifty heroes , pushing , and straining , and growing red in the face , without making the Argo start an inch . 
All at once , Jason bethought himself of the galley's miraculous figure head . 
, seat yourselves , and handle your oars , and let Orpheus play upon his harp . 
swept his fingers across the harp . 
At the first ringing note of the music , they felt the vessel stir . 
In order to make the time pass away more pleasantly during the voyage , the heroes talked about the Golden Fleece . 
One of the children , whose name was Helle , fell into the sea and was drowned . 
was brought safe ashore by the faithful ram , who , however , was so exhausted that he immediately lay down and died . 
If I were to tell you all the adventures of the Argonauts , it would take me till nightfall , and perhaps a great deal longer . 
There was no lack of wonderful events , as you may judge from what you have already heard . 
At a certain island , they were hospitably received by King Cyzicus , its sovereign , who made a feast for them , and treated them like brothers . 
But the Argonauts saw that this good king looked downcast and very much troubled , and they therefore inquired of him what was the matter . 
And while they were talking about it , Cyzicus pointed to the mountain , and asked Jason and his companions what they saw there . 
I see some very tall objects , answered Jason but they are at such a distance that I cannot distinctly make out what they are . 
To tell your majesty the truth , they look so very strangely that I am inclined to think them clouds , which have chanced to take something like human shapes . 
I see them very plainly , remarked Lynceus , whose eyes , you know , were as far sighted as a telescope . 
They are a band of enormous giants , all of whom have six arms apiece , and a club , a sword , or some other weapon in each of their hands . 
You have excellent eyes , said King Cyzicus . 
Yes they are six armed giants , as you say , and these are the enemies whom I and my subjects have to contend with . 
Besides , if they had been like the hundred armed Briareus , the brave Argonauts would have given them their hands full of fight . 
These ugly wretches were in the habit of snatching away his dinner , and allowed him no peace of his life . 
, and so frightened them with their drawn swords , that they solemnly promised never to trouble King Phineus again . 
Then the Argonauts sailed onward and met with many other marvelous incidents , any one of which would make a story by itself . 
At one time they landed on an island , and were reposing on the grass , when they suddenly found themselves assailed by what seemed a shower of steel headed arrows . 
Some of them stuck in the ground , while others hit against their shields , and several penetrated their flesh . 
These feathers were the steel headed arrows that had so tormented them . 
So he ran to the galley as fast as his legs would carry him . 
What can we do to drive them away ? Make a clatter on your shields , said the image . 
, and bade them strike with their swords upon their brazen shields . 
They were now on their way to Greece , in hopes of getting back a kingdom that had been wrongfully taken from their father . 
When the princes understood whither the Argonauts were going , they offered to turn back , and guide them to Colchis . 
At the same time , however , they spoke as if it were very doubtful whether Jason would succeed in getting the Golden Fleece . 
There are other difficulties in the way , continued the young princes . 
But is not this enough ? Ah , brave Jason , turn back before it is too late . 
It would grieve us to the heart , if you and your nine and forty brave companions should be eaten up , at fifty mouthfuls , by this execrable dragon . 
My young friends , quietly replied Jason , I do not wonder that you think the dragon very terrible . 
At all events , turn back who may , I will never see Greece again , unless I carry with me the Golden Fleece . 
We will none of us turn back ! cried his nine and forty brave comrades . 
Let us get on board the galley this instant and if the dragon is to make a breakfast of us , much good may it do him . 
, they quickly sailed to Colchis . 
When the king of the country , whose name was Aetes , heard of their arrival , he instantly summoned Jason to court . 
You are welcome , brave Jason , said King Aetes . 
, has engaged to come down from it , and to give me his crown and sceptre , provided I bring him the Golden Fleece . 
This , as your majesty is aware , is now hanging on a tree here at Colchis and I humbly solicit your gracious leave to take it away . 
True , said the king , with a smile that did not look particularly good natured . 
Very true , young man . 
But there are other things as hard , or perhaps a little harder , to be done before you can even have the privilege of being devoured by the dragon . 
For example , you must first tame my two brazen footed and brazen lunged bulls , which Vulcan , the wonderful blacksmith , made for me . 
What do you think of this , my brave Jason ? I must encounter the peril , answered Jason , composedly , since it stands in the way of my purpose . 
They are an unruly set of reprobates , those sons of the dragon's teeth and unless you treat them suitably , they will fall upon you sword in hand . 
You and your nine and forty Argonauts , my bold Jason , are hardly numerous or strong enough to fight with such a host as will spring up . 
My master Chiron , replied Jason , taught me , long ago , the story of Cadmus . 
Perhaps I can manage the quarrelsome sons of the dragon's teeth as well as Cadmus did . 
I wish the dragon had him , muttered King Aetes to himself , and the four footed pedant , his schoolmaster , into the bargain . 
Why , what a foolhardy , self conceited coxcomb he is ! We'll see what my fire breathing bulls will do for him . 
While the king talked with Jason , a beautiful young woman was standing behind the throne . 
I am the king's daughter , she said to him , and my name is Medea . 
I know a great deal of which other young princesses are ignorant , and can do many things which they would be afraid so much as to dream of . 
If you will trust to me , I can instruct you how to tame the fiery bulls , and sow the dragon's teeth , and get the Golden Fleece . 
Indeed , beautiful princess , answered Jason , if you will do me this service , I promise to be grateful to you my whole life long . 
Gazing at Medea , he beheld a wonderful intelligence in her face . 
Princess , he exclaimed , you seem indeed very wise and very powerful . 
I am acquainted with some of your secrets , you perceive . 
It is well for you that I am favorably inclined for , otherwise , you would hardly escape being snapped up by the dragon . 
I should not so much care for the dragon , replied Jason , if I only knew how to manage the brazen footed and fiery lunged bulls . 
What it is I leave you to find out in the moment of peril . 
So she put a golden box into his hand , and directed him how to apply the perfumed unguent which it contained , and where to meet her at midnight . 
Only be brave , added she , and before daybreak the brazen bulls shall be tamed . 
The young man assured her that his heart would not fail him . 
At the appointed hour he met the beautiful Medea on the marble steps of the king's palace . 
She gave him a basket , in which were the dragon's teeth , just as they had been pulled out of the monster's jaws by Cadmus , long ago . 
Medea then led Jason down the palace steps , and through the silent streets of the city , and into the royal pasture ground , where the two brazen footed bulls were kept . 
It was a starry night , with a bright gleam along the eastern edge of the sky , where the moon was soon going to show herself . 
After entering the pasture , the princess paused and looked around . 
There they are , said she , reposing them . 
selves and chewing their fiery cuds in that farthest corner of the field . 
It will be excellent sport , I assure you , when they catch a glimpse of your figure . 
My father and all his court delight in nothing so much as to see a stranger trying to yoke them , in order to come at the Golden Fleece . 
It makes a holiday in Colchis whenever such a thing happens . 
For my part , I enjoy it immensely . 
You cannot imagine in what a mere twinkling of an eye their hot breath shrivels a young man into a black cinder . 
He therefore let go Medea's hand , and walked boldly forward in the direction whither she had pointed . 
At some distance before him he perceived four streams of fiery vapor , regularly appearing and again vanishing , after dimly lighting up the surrounding obscurity . 
These , you will understand , were caused by the breath of the brazen bulls , which was quietly stealing out of their four nostrils , as they lay chewing their cuds . 
He went a little farther , and by the way in which the red vapor now spouted forth , he judged that the creatures had got upon their feet . 
Now he could see glowing sparks , and vivid jets of flame . 
Their breath scorched the herbage before them . 
So intensely hot it was , indeed , that it caught a dry tree under which Jason was now standing , and set it all in a light blaze . 
, the white flame curled around his body , without injuring him a jot more than if he had been made of asbestos . 
Greatly encouraged at finding himself not yet turned into a cinder , the young man awaited the attack of the bulls . 
Well , he must have been wonderfully strong in his arms , to be sure . 
Jason , I suppose , had been taught how to draw a furrow by the good old Chiron , who , perhaps , used to allow himself to be harnessed to the plow . 
Must we wait long for harvest time ? he inquired of Medea , who was now standing by his side . 
Whether sooner or later , it will be sure to come , answered the princess . 
A crop of armed men never fails to spring up , when the dragon's teeth have been sown . 
The moon was now high aloft in the heavens , and threw its bright beams over the plowed field , where as yet there was nothing to be seen . 
But by and by , all over the field , there was something that glistened in the moonbeams , like sparkling drops of dew . 
These bright objects sprouted higher , and proved to be the steel heads of spears . 
The first look that they gave at the upper world was a glare of wrath and defiance . 
Wherever a dragon's tooth had fallen , there stood a man armed for battle . 
At last , the front rank caught sight of Jason , who , beholding the flash of so many weapons in the moonlight , had thought it best to draw his sword . 
Medea , however , bade him snatch up a stone from the ground . 
Throw it among them quickly ! cried she . 
It is the only way to save yourself . 
The stone glanced from this man's helmet to the shield of his nearest comrade , and thence flew right into the angry face of another , hitting him smartly between the eyes . 
, all but one of the heroes of the dragon's teeth were stretched lifeless on the field . 
And there was the end of the army that had sprouted from the dragon's teeth . 
That fierce and feverish fight was the only enjoyment which they had tasted on this beautiful earth . 
Let them sleep in the bed of honor , said the Princess Medea , with a sly smile at Jason . 
Come ! Your night's work has been well performed and to morrow you can inform King Aetes that the first part of your allotted task is fulfilled . 
Agreeably to Medea's advice , Jason went betimes in the morning to the palace of King Aetes . 
Entering the presence chamber , he stood at the foot of the throne , and made a low obeisance . 
Your eyes look heavy , Prince Jason , observed the king you appear to have spent a sleepless night . 
I hope you have been considering the matter a little more wisely , and have concluded not to get yourself scorched to a cinder , in attempting to tame my brazen lunged bulls . 
That is already accomplished , may it please your majesty , replied Jason . 
And now I solicit your majesty's permission to encounter the dragon , that I may take down the Golden Fleece from the tree , and depart , with my nine and forty comrades . 
not to run any further risk of losing his beloved Fleece . 
You never would have succeeded in this business , young man , said he , if my undutiful daughter Medea had not helped you with her enchantments . 
Had you acted fairly , you would have been , at this instant , a black cinder , or a handful of white ashes . 
I forbid you , on pain of death , to make any more attempts to get the Golden Fleece . 
To speak my mind plainly , you shall never set eyes on so much as one of its glistening locks . 
Jason left the king's presence in great sorrow and anger . 
But , as Jason was hastening down the palace steps , the Princess Medea called after him , and beckoned him to return . 
These enchantresses , you must know , are never to be depended upon . 
What says King Aetes , my royal and upright father ? inquired Medea , slightly smiling . 
And he forbids me to make any more attempts , and positively refuses to give up the Golden Fleece , whether I slay the dragon or no . 
Yes , Jason , said the princess , and I can tell you more . 
Unless you set sail from Colchis before to morrow's sunrise , the king means to burn your fifty oared galley , and put yourself and your forty nine brave comrades to the sword . 
But be of good courage . 
The Golden Fleece you shall have , if it lies within the power of my enchantments to get it for you . 
Wait for me here an hour before midnight . 
How they contrived to keep themselves alive is more than I can imagine . 
But now , instead of emitting jets of flame and streams of sulphurous vapor , they breathed the very sweetest of cow breath . 
At length , when they had gone farther and farther into the heart of the duskiness , Medea squeezed Jason's hand . 
Look yonder , she whispered . 
Do you see it ? Gleaming among the venerable oaks , there was a radiance , not like the moonbeams , but rather resembling the golden glory of the setting sun . 
It proceeded from an object , which appeared to be suspended at about a man's height from the ground , a little farther within the wood . 
What is it ? asked Jason . 
Jason went onward a few steps farther , and then stopped to gaze . 
How gloriously it shines ! cried Jason , in a rapture . 
It has surely been dipped in the richest gold of sunset . 
Let me hasten onward , and take it to my bosom . 
Stay , said Medea , holding him back . 
Have you forgotten what guards it ? To say the truth , in the joy of beholding the object of his desires , the terrible dragon had quite slipped out of Jason's memory . 
Soon , however , something came to pass , that reminded him what perils were still to be encountered . 
An antelope , that probably mistook the yellow radiance for sunrise , came bounding fleetly through the grove . 
, and seizing the poor antelope , swallowed him with one snap of his jaws . 
After this feat , the dragon seemed sensible that some other living creature was within reach , on which he felt inclined to finish his meal . 
Upon my word , as the head came waving and undulating through the air , and reaching almost within arm's length of Prince Jason , it was a very hideous and uncomfortable sight . 
The gape of his enormous jaws was nearly as wide as the gateway of the king's palace . 
, what do you think now of your prospect of winning the Golden Fleece ? Jason answered only by drawing his sword , and making a step forward . 
Stay , foolish youth , said Medea , grasping his arm . 
The dragon had probably heard the voices for swift as lightning , his black head and forked tongue came hissing among the trees again , darting full forty feet at a stretch . 
As it approached , Medea tossed the contents of the gold box right down the monster's wide open throat . 
It is only a sleeping potion , said the enchantress to Prince Jason . 
One always finds a use for these mischievous creatures , sooner or later so I did not wish to kill him outright . 
Quick ! Snatch the prize , and let us begone . 
You have won the Golden Fleece . 
A little way before him , he beheld the old woman whom he had helped over the stream , with her peacock beside her . 
She clapped her hands for joy , and beckoning him to make haste , disappeared among the duskiness of the trees . 
, Jason bade them tell the rest of the Argonauts to embark as speedily as possible . 
By his advice , the heroes had seated themselves on the benches of the galley , with their oars held perpendicularly , ready to let fall into the water . 
