Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Though that isn't saying such a machine couldn't be invented . 
I believe you that is if you got on its trail , returned Ned , and there was warm admiration in his voice . 
I've been too busy on that new airship stabilizer dad gave me an idea for . 
I've been working too hard , that's a fact . 
I need a vacation , and maybe a good baseball game He stopped and looked at the magazine he had so hastily slapped down . 
Something he had read in it seemed to fascinate him . 
I wonder if it can possibly be true , he went on . 
What you just read in that magazine which seems to cause you so much excitement . 
Well , it may be a joke and yet the professor seems very much in earnest about it , replied Tom . 
It certainly is one wonderful story ! So you said before . 
Come on the fillium' is busted . 
Splice it , or else put in a new reel and on with the show . 
I'd like to know what's doing . 
What professor are you talking of ? Professor Swyington Bumper . 
Swyington Bumper ? and Ned's voice showed that his memory was a bit hazy . 
You ought to remember him . 
He was on the steamer when I went down to Peru to help the Titus Brothers dig the big tunnel . 
And he was as cool about it as an ice cream cone . 
Surely you remember ! Swyington Bumper ! Oh , yes , now I remember him , said Ned Newton . 
There isn't , agreed Tom . 
But this isn't that , and Tom picked up the magazine and leafed it to find the article he had been reading . 
Let's have a look at it , suggested Ned . 
You act as though you might be vitally interested in it . 
Maybe you're thinking of joining forces with the professor again , as you did when you dug the big tunnel . 
I haven't any such idea , Tom said . 
I've got enough work laid out now to keep me in Shopton for the next year . 
I have no notion of going anywhere with Professor Bumper . 
Yet I can't help being impressed by this , and , having found the article in the magazine to which he referred , he handed it to his chum . 
Why , it's by Bumper himself ! exclaimed Ned . 
Though there's nothing remarkable in that , seeing that he is constantly contributing articles to various publications or writing books . 
It's the story itself that's so wonderful . 
Of solid gold you say ? asked Ned eagerly . 
Got on your banking air already , Tom laughed . 
To sum it up for you notice I use the word sum , which is very appropriate for a bank the professor has got on the track of another lost or hidden city . 
This one , the name of which doesn't appear , is in the Copan valley of Honduras , and Copan , interrupted Ned . 
It sounds like the name of some new floor varnish . 
Well , it isn't , though it might be , laughed Tom . 
Copan is a city , in the Department of Copan , near the boundary between Honduras and Guatemala . 
A fact I learned from the article and not because I remembered my geography . 
I was going to say , remarked Ned with a smile , that you were coming it rather strong on the school book stuff . 
Oh , it's all plainly written down there , and Tom waved toward the magazine at which Ned was looking . 
What's Mayan ? asked Ned . 
You see I'm going to imbibe my information by the deductive rather than the excavative process , he added with a laugh . 
I see , laughed Tom . 
Well , Mayan refers to the Mayas , an aboriginal people of Yucatan . 
The Mayas had a peculiar civilization of their own , thousands of years ago , and their calendar system was so involved Never mind about dates , again interrupted Ned . 
Get down to brass tacks . 
I'm willing to take your word for it that there's a Copan valley in Honduras . 
But what has your friend Professor Bumper to do with it ? This . 
But where does the idol of gold come in ? I'm coming to that , said Tom . 
Though , if Professor Bumper has his way , the idol will be coming out instead of coming in . 
You mean he wants to get it and take it away from the Copan valley , Tom ? That's it , Ned . 
It has great value not only from the amount of pure gold that is in it , but as an antique . 
I fancy the professor is more interested in that aspect of it . 
Then he tells of the trouble he had in discovering how to solve the key to the translation code but when he did , he found a great story unfolded to him . 
This story has to do with the hidden city , and tells of the ancient civilization of those who lived in the Copan valley thousands of years ago . 
The people held this idol of gold to be their greatest treasure , and they put to death many of other tribes who sought to steal it . 
But what is Professor Bumper going to do about it ? I don't know . 
The article seems to be written with an idea of interesting scientists and research societies , so that they will raise money to conduct a searching expedition . 
Perhaps by this time the party may be organized this magazine is several months old . 
I have been so busy on my stabilizer patent that I haven't kept up with current literature . 
Take it home and read it ! Ned . 
The two were inventors and proverbially poor business men , though they had amassed a fortune . 
Your financial affairs are all right , Tom , said Ned . 
I have just been going over the books , and I'll submit a detailed report later . 
The telephone bell rang and Tom picked up the instrument from the desk . 
As he answered in the usual way and then listened a moment , a strange look came over his face . 
Well , this certainly is wonderful ! he exclaimed , in much the same manner as when he had finished reading the article about the idol . 
It certainly is a strange coincidence , he added , speaking in an aside to Ned while he himself still listened to what was being told to him over the telephone wire . 
CHAPTER II PROFESSOR BUMPER ARRIVES What's the matter , Tom ? What is it ? asked Ned Newton , attracted by the strange manner of his chum at the telephone . 
Has anything happened ? But the young inventor was too busy listening to the unseen speaker to answer his chum , even if he heard what Ned remarked , which is doubtful . 
Well , I might as well wait until he is through , mused Ned , as he started to leave the room . 
Then as Tom motioned to him to remain , he murmured He may have something to say to me later . 
But I wonder who is talking to him . 
Occasionally Ned could hear him say You don't tell me ! That is surprising ! Yes yes ! Of course if it's true it means a big thing , I can understand that . 
What's that ? No , I couldn't make a promise like that . 
I'm sorry , but Then the person at the other end of the wire must have plunged into something very interesting and absorbing , for Tom did not again interrupt by interjected remarks . 
Swift , as has been said , was an inventor , as was his father . 
Mr. Swift was now rather old and feeble , taking only a nominal part in the activities of the firm made up of himself and his son . 
But his inventions were still used , many of them being vital to the business and trade of this country . 
Tom and his father lived in the village of Shopton , New York , and their factories covered many acres of ground . 
Those who wish to read of the earliest activities of Tom in the inventive line are referred to the initial volume , Tom Swift and His Motor Cycle . 
From then on he and his father had many and exciting adventures . 
In a motor boat , an airship , and a submarine respectively the young inventor had gone through many perils . 
There was also Mrs. Baggert , the housekeeper , Tom's mother being dead . 
Mr. Damon , living in a neighboring town , was a frequent visitor in the Swift home . 
Mary Nestor , a girl of Shopton , might also be mentioned . 
She and Tom were more than just good friends . 
Tom had an idea that some day . 
But there , I promised not to tell that part , at least until the young people themselves were ready to have a certain fact announced . 
Do you think I'm a mind reader to be able to guess ? No , indeed ! I beg your pardon . 
I'll tell you at once . 
But I couldn't break away . 
To whom do you think I was talking just then ? I can imagine almost any one , seeing I know something of what you have done . 
It might be almost anybody from some person you met up in the caves of ice to a red pygmy from the wilds of Africa . 
I'm afraid neither of them would be quite up to telephone talk yet , laughed Tom . 
No , this was the gentleman who wrote that interesting article about the idol of gold , and he motioned to the magazine Ned held in his hand . 
You don't mean Professor Bumper ! That's just whom I do mean . 
Where did he call from did you say ? I didn't say . 
But it was a long distance call from New York . 
The Professor stopped off there on his way from Boston , where he has been lecturing before some society . 
And now he's coming here to see me , finished Tom . 
What ! Is he going to lecture here ? cried Ned . 
I wasn't built for that . 
The professor isn't going to lecture . 
He's only going to talk , he says . 
What about ? He's going to try to induce me to join his expedition to the Copan valley . 
Do you feel inclined to go ? No , Ned , I do not . 
I've got too many other irons in the fire . 
I shall have to give the professor a polite but firm refusal . 
It must be quite a nugget . 
But I'm not likely to get a glimpse of it if you don't go with the professor . 
I don't see how I can go , Ned . 
But come over and meet the delightful gentleman when he arrives . 
I expect him day after to morrow . 
You mean ? Professor Bumper . 
No , I haven't heard from him since he telephoned . 
But I guess he'll be here all right . 
Rad wanted to do it all alone , but Koku said he was like a baby now . 
Poor Rad is getting old , said Tom with a sigh . 
But he has been very faithful . 
He and Koku never seem to get along well together . 
Koku was an immense man , a veritable giant , one of two whom Tom had brought back with him after an exciting trip to a strange land . 
The giant's strength was very useful to the young inventor . 
Now Tom , about this business of leasing to the English Government the right to manufac ture that new explosive of yours , began Ned , plunging into the business at hand . 
I think if you stick out a little you can get a better royalty price . 
But I don't want to gouge 'em , Ned . 
I'm satisfied with a fair profit . 
The trouble with you is you think too much of money . 
Now At that moment a voice was heard in the hall of the house saying Now , my dear lady , don't trouble yourself . 
I can find my way in to Tom Swift perfectly well by myself , and while I appreciate your courtesy I do not want to trouble you . 
No , don't come , Mrs. Baggert , added another voice . 
Bless my hat band , I think I know my way about the house by this time ! Mr. Damon ! ejaculated Ned . 
And Professor Bumper is with him , added Tom . 
On the other hand Tom Swift appeared a bit indifferent . 
Ned himself admitted that he was frankly curious . 
The story of the big idol of gold had occupied his thoughts for many hours . 
Well , I'm glad to see you both , said Tom again . 
You got here all right , I see , Professor Bumper . 
But I didn't expect you to meet and bring Mr. Damon with you . 
I met him on the train , explained the author of the book on the lost city of Pelone , as well as books on other antiquities . 
I had no expectation of seeing him , and we were both surprised when we met on the express . 
There were some passengers to get off , which caused the flier to stop , I suppose . 
And , as I wanted to come over to see you , I got aboard . 
Glad you did , voiced Tom . 
Then I happened to see Professor Bumper a few seats ahead of me , went on Mr. Damon , and , bless my scarfpin ! he was coming to see you also . 
Well , I'm doubly glad , answered Tom . 
So here we are , went on Mr. Damon , and you've simply got to come , Tom Swift . 
You must go with us ! and Mr. Damon , in his enthusiasm , banged his fist down on the table with such force that he knocked some books to the floor . 
Some books fell , that is all . 
Massa Tom done called fo' me , dat's what he done ! broke in the petulant voice of Eradicate . 
No , Rad , I don't need anything , Tom said . 
Though you might make a pitcher of lemonade . 
Right away , Massa Tom ! Right away ! cried the old colored man , eager to be of service . 
Me help , too ! rumbled Koku , in his deep voice . 
Me punch de lemons ! and away he hurried after Eradicate , fearful lest the old servant do all the honors . 
Same old Rad and Koku , observed Mr. Damon with a smile . 
But now , Tom , while they're making the lemonade , let's get down to business . 
You're going with us , of course ! Where ? asked Tom , more from habit than because he did not know . 
He told me you had . 
I read it on the train coming over . 
He also told me about it , and Well , I'm going with him , Tom Swift . 
Why , it makes me feel quite young again ! and Mr. Damon arose , to pace excitedly up and down the room . 
Up to this time Professor Bumper had said very little . 
He had sat still in his chair listening to Mr. Damon . 
But now that the latter had ceased , at least for a time , Tom and Ned looked toward the scientist . 
And yet there are more wonders to tell , went on the professor . 
I did not give all the details in that article . 
I will tell you some of them . 
I have brought copies of the documents with me , and he opened a small valise and took out several bundles tied with pink tape . 
On one condition ! put in the eccentric man . 
What's that ? You didn't make any conditions while we were talking , said the scientist . 
Yes , I said I'd go if Tom Swift did . 
But I don't call that a condition , for of course Tom Swift will go . 
Now let me tell you something more than I could impart over the telephone . 
Soon after I called you up , Tom and it was quite a coincidence that it should have been at a time when you had just finished my magazine article . 
Soon after that , as I was saying , I arranged to come on to Shopton . 
And now I'm glad we're all here together . 
But how comes it , Ned Newton , that you are not in the bank ? I've left there , explained Ned . 
He's now general financial man for the Swift Company , Tom explained . 
No worries at all , as far as the Swift Company is concerned , returned Ned . 
Well , I guess you earn your salary , laughed Tom . 
But now , Professor Bumper , let's hear from you . 
Is there anything more about this idol of gold that you can tell us ? Plenty , Tom , plenty . 
I could talk all day , and not get to the end of the story . 
So , not to go into too many details , went on the professor , I'll just give you a brief outline of this story of the idol of gold . 
Honduras , as you of course know , is a republic of Central America , and it gets its name from something that happened on the fourth voyage of Columbus . 
He and his men had had days of weary sailing and had sought in vain for shallow water in which they might come to an anchorage . 
that being the Spanish word for unfathomable depths . 
So Honduras it was called , and has been to this day . 
It is a queer land with many traces of an ancient civilization , a civilization which I believe dates back farther than some in the far East . 
On the sculptured stones in the Copan valley there are characters which seem to resemble very ancient writing , but this pictographic writing is largely untranslatable . 
Honduras , I might add , is about the size of our state of Ohio . 
It is rather an elevated table land , though there are stretches of tropical forest , but it is not so tropical a country as many suppose it to be . 
There is much gold scattered throughout Honduras , though of late it has not been found in large quantities . 
In the old days , however , before the Spaniards came , it was plentiful , so much , so that the natives made idols of it . 
And it is one of the largest of these idols by name Quitzel that I am going to seek . 
Do you know where it is ? asked Ned . 
Well , it isn't locked up in a safe deposit box , of that I'm sure , laughed the professor . 
No , I don't know exactly where it is , except that it is somewhere in an ancient and buried city known as Kurzon . 
If I knew exactly where it was there wouldn't be much fun in going after it . 
And if it was known to others it would have been taken away long ago . 
No , we've got to hunt for the idol of gold in this land of wonders where I hope soon to be . 
Later on I'll show you the documents that put me on the track of this idol . 
Mr. Damon , too , leaned eagerly forward . 
So , Tom Swift , went on the professor , I come to you for help in this matter . 
I want you to aid me in organizing an expedition to go to Honduras after the idol of gold . 
Will you ? I'll help you , of course , said Tom . 
You may use any of my inventions you choose my airships , my motor boats and submarines , even my giant cannon if you think you can take it with you . 
And as for the money part , Ned will arrange that for you . 
But as for going with you myself , it is out of the question . 
The professor seemed to shrink back in his chair , collapsing like an automobile tire when the air is let out . 
As for Mr. Damon he jumped up and cried Bless my ! But that is as far as he got at least just then . 
He did not seem to know what to bless , but he looked as though he would have liked to include most of the universe . 
Surely you don't mean it , Tom Swift , gasped Professor Bumper at length . 
Won't you come with us ? No , said Tom , slowly . 
I'm working on an invention of a new aeroplane stabilizer , and if I go now it will be just at a time when I am within striking distance of success . 
And the stabilizer is very much needed . 
Don't think that for a moment . 
So I have been working out a sort of modified gyroscope , and it seems to answer the purpose . 
I'd like to go , don't misunderstand me , but I can't go at this time . 
It is out of the question . 
If you wait a year , or maybe six months No , it is impossible to wait , Tom , declared Professor Bumper . 
Is it so important then to hurry ? asked Mr. Damon . 
You did not mention that to me , Professor Bumper . 
No , I did not have time . 
There are so many ends to my concerns . 
But , Tom Swift , you simply must go ! I can't , my dear professor , much as I should like to . 
But , Tom , think of it ! cried Mr. Damon , who was as much excited as was the little bald headed scientist . 
You never saw such an idol of gold as this . 
What's its name ? and he looked questioningly at the professor . 
Quitzel the idol is called , supplied Professor Bumper . 
And it is supposed to be in a buried city named Kurzon , somewhere in the Sierra de Merendon range of mountains , in the vicinity of the Copan valley . 
Copan is a city , or maybe we'll find it only a town when we get there , and it is not far from the borders of Guatemala . 
Please don't tempt me , Tom said with a laugh . 
I'm only too anxious to go , and if it wasn't for the stabilizer I'd be with you in a minute . 
But Well , you'll have to get along without me . 
Maybe I can join you later . 
What's this about the idol keeping guard over the ancient city ? asked Ned , for he was interested in strange stories . 
There is in some of these papers a description of the idol , which is not exactly a beauty , judged from modern standards . 
But the main fact is that it is made of solid gold , and may weigh anywhere from one to two tons . 
Two tons of gold ! cried New Newton . 
Why , if that's the case it would be worth and he fell to doing a sum in mental arithmetic . 
I am not so concerned about the monetary value of the statue as I am about its antiquity , went on Professor Bumper . 
There are other statues in this buried city of Kurzon , and though they may not be so valuable they will give me a wealth of material for my research work . 
How do you know there are other statues ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Because my documents tell me so . 
It was because the people made other idols , in opposition , as it were , to Quitzel , that their city or country was destroyed . 
At least that is the legend . 
All the inhabitants were killed , and trace of the ancient city was lost forever . 
No , I hope not forever , for I expect to find it . 
If all the people were killed , and the city buried , how did the story of Quitzel become known ? asked Mr. Damon . 
One only of the priests in the temple of Quitzel escaped and set down part of the tale , said the professor . 
It is his narrative , or one based on it , that I have given you . 
And now , what I want to do , is to go and make a search for this buried city . 
I have fairly good directions as to how it may be reached . 
We will have little difficulty in getting to Honduras , as there are fruit steamers frequently sailing . 
Of course going into the interior to the Copan valley is going to be harder . 
But an expedition from a large college was recently there and succeeded , after much labor , in ex cavating part of a buried city . 
Whether or not it was Kurzon I am unable to say . 
But if there was one ancient city there must be more . 
So I want to make an attempt . 
And I counted on you , Tom . 
You have had considerable experience in strange quarters of the earth , and you're just the one to help me . 
I don't need money , for I have interested a certain millionaire , and my own college will put up part of the funds . 
Oh , it isn't a question of money , said Tom . 
That's just what it is with me ! exclaimed Professor Bumper . 
I haven't any time to lose . 
My rivals may , even now , be on their way to Honduras ! Your rivals ! cried Tom . 
You didn't say anything about them ! No , I believe I didn't There were so many other things to talk about . 
But there is a rival archaeologist who would ask nothing better than to get ahead of me in this matter . 
He is younger than I am , and youth is a big asset nowadays . 
Pooh ! You're not old ! cried Mr. Damon . 
You're no older than I am , and I'm still young . 
I'm a lot younger than some of these boys who are afraid to tackle a trip through a tropical wilderness , and he playfully nudged Tom in the ribs . 
I'm not a bit afraid ! retorted the young inventor . 
No , I know you're not , laughed Mr. Damon . 
But I've got to say something , Tom , to stir you up . 
Ned , how about you ? Would you go ? I can't , unless Tom does . 
You see I'm his financial man now . 
There you are , Tom Swift ! cried Mr. Damon . 
You see you are holding back a number of persons just because you don't want to go . 
I certainly wouldn't like to go without Tom , said the professor slowly . 
I really need his help . 
You know , Tom , we would never have found the city of Pelone if it had not been for you and your marvelous powder . 
Come , Tom , reconsider , and decide to make the trip . 
Don't let my rival get ahead of me . 
I wouldn't like to see that , Tom said slowly . 
Who is he any one I know ? I don't believe so , Tom . 
He's connected with a large , new college that has plenty of money to spend on explorations and research work . 
Beecher is his name Fenimore Beecher . 
Beecher ! exclaimed Tom , and there was such a change in his manner that his friends could not help noticing it . 
He jumped to his feet , his eyes snapping , and he looked eagerly and anxiously at Professor Bumper . 
Did you say his name was Fenimore Beecher ? Tom asked in a tense voice . 
That's what it is Professor Fenimore Beecher . 
He is really a learned young man , and thoroughly in earnest , though I do not like his manner . 
But he is trying to get ahead of me , which may account for my feeling . 
Tom Swift did not answer . 
Instead he hurried from the room with a murmured apology . 
I'll be back in about five minutes , he said , as he went out . 
Well , what's up now ? asked Mr. Damon of Ned , as the young inventor departed . 
What set him off that way ? The mention of Beecher's name , evidently . 
Though I never heard him mention such a person before . 
Nor did I ever hear Professor Beecher speak of Tom , said the bald headed scientist . 
Well , we'll just have to wait until At that moment Tom came back into the room . 
Gentlemen , he said , I have reconsidered my refusal to go to the Copan valley after the idol of gold . 
I'm going with you ! Good ! cried Professor Bumper . 
Fine ! ejaculated Mr. Damon . 
Bless my time table ! I thought you'd come around , Tom Swift . 
But what about your stabilizer ? asked Ned . 
I was just talking to my father about it , the young inventor replied . 
He will be able to put the finishing touches on it . 
So I'll leave it with him . 
As soon as I can get ready I'll go , since you say haste is necessary , Professor Bumper . 
It is , if we are to get ahead of Beecher . 
Then we'll get ahead of him ! cried Tom . 
I'm with you now from the start to the finish . 
I'll show him what I can do ! he added , while Ned and the others wondered at the sudden change in their friend's manner . 
Within a week , if you want to start that soon . 
A week will suit me . 
I don't know just what Beecher's plans are , but , he may try to get on the ground first . 
Well , I hope we'll be as successful this time , murmured Tom . 
I don't want to see Beecher beat you . 
I didn't know you knew him , Tom , said the professor . 
Oh , yes , I have met him . 
He never mentioned you , went on Professor Bumper yet the last time I saw him I said I was coming to see you , though I did not tell him why . 
No , he wouldn't be likely to speak of me , said Tom significantly . 
Well , if that's all settled , I guess I'll go back home and pack up , said Mr. Damon , making a move to depart . 
There's no special rush , Tom said . 
We won't leave for a week . 
I can't get ready in much less time than that . 
Bless my socks ! I know that , ejaculated Mr. Damon . 
But if I get my things packed I can go to a hotel to stay while my wife is away . 
But if I get all packed , and clear out , she can't find me and she can't hold me back . 
She is visiting her mother now . 
I can send her a wire from Kurzon after I get there . 
I don't believe the telegraph there is work ing , laughed Professor Bumper . 
I must go back to New York to arrange for the goods we'll have to take with us . 
In a week , Tom , we'll start . 
You must stay to dinner , Tom said . 
You can't get a train now anyhow , and father wants to meet you again . 
He's pretty well , considering his age . 
And he's much better I verily believe since I said I'd turn over to him the task of finishing the stabilizer . 
We'll stay and take the night train back , agreed Mr. Damon . 
It will be like old times , Tom , he went on , traveling off together into the wilds . 
Central America is pretty wild , isn't it ? he asked , as if in fear of being disappointed ! on that score . 
Oh , it's wild enough to suit any one , answered Professor Bumper . 
Well , now to settle a few details , observed Tom . 
But are you going to take your father with you ? No , of course not . 
But you spoke of we . 
I meant you and I are going . 
Me , Tom ? Sure , you ! I wouldn't think of leaving you behind . 
You want Ned along , don't you , Professor ? Of course . 
It will be an ideal party we four . 
We'll have to take natives when we get to Honduras , and make up a mule pack train for the interior . 
So it will be an old fashioned expedition , in a way . 
Mr. Swift came in at this point to meet his old friends . 
The boy needs a little excitement , he said . 
He's been puttering over that stabilizer invention too long . 
I can finish the model for him in a very short time . 
There was a merry party around the table at dinner , though now and then Ned noticed that Tom had an abstracted and preoccupied air . 
Thinking about the idol of gold ? asked Ned in a whisper to his chum , when they were about to leave the table . 
The idol of gold ? Oh , yes ! Of course ! It will be great if we can bring that back with us . 
But the manner in which he said this made Ned feel sure that Tom had had other thoughts , and that he had used a little subterfuge in his answer . 
Neither would I. That's why I changed my mind . 
This Beecher isn't going to get that idol if I can stop him ! You seem rather bitter against him . 
Bitter ? Oh , not at all . 
I simply don't want to see my friends disappointed . 
Then Beecher isn't a friend of yours ? Oh , I've met him , that is all , and Tom tried to speak indifferently . 
Humph ! mused Ned , there's more here than I dreamed of . 
I'm going to get at the bottom of it . 
But though Ned tried to pump Tom , he was not successful . 
The young inventor admitted knowing the youthful scientist , but that was all , Tom reiterating his determination not to let Professor Bumper be beaten in the race for the idol of gold . 
Let me see , mused Ned , as he went home that evening . 
Tom did not change his mind until he heard Beecher's name mentioned . 
Now this shows that Beecher had something to do with it . 
The only reason Tom doesn't want Beecher to get this idol or find the buried city is because Professor Bumper is after it . 
And yet the professor is not an old or close friend of Tom's . 
They met only when Tom went to dig his big tunnel . 
There must be some other reason . 
Ned did some more thinking . 
Then he clapped his hands together , and a smile spread over his face . 
I believe I have it ! he cried . 
The little green god as compared to the idol of gold ! That's it . 
I'm going to make a call on my way home . 
This he did , stopping at the home of Mary Nestor , a pretty girl , who , rumor had it , was tacitly engaged to Tom . 
Mary was not at home , but Mr. Nestor was , and for Ned's purpose this answered . 
Well , well , glad to see you ! exclaimed Mary's father . 
Isn't Tom with you ? he asked a moment later , seeing that Ned was alone . 
No , Tom isn't with me this evening , Ned answered . 
The fact is , he's getting ready to go off on another expedition , and I'm going with him . 
You young men are always going somewhere , remarked Mrs. Nestor . 
Where is it to this time ? Some place in Central America , Ned answered , not wishing to be too particular . 
He was wondering how he could find out what he wanted to know , when Mary's mother unexpectedly gave him just the information he was after . 
Central America ! she exclaimed . 
Why , Father , and she looked at her husband , that's where Professor Beecher is going , isn't it ? Yes , I believe he did mention something about that . 
Professor Beecher , the man who is an author ity on Aztec ruins ? asked Ned , taking a shot in the dark . 
Yes , said Mr. Nestor . 
And a mighty fine young man he is , too . 
I knew his father well . 
He was here on a visit not long ago , young Beecher was , and he talked most entertainingly about his discoveries . 
You remember how interested Mary was , Mother ? Yes , she seemed to be , said Mrs. Nestor . 
Tom Swift dropped in during the course of the evening , she added to Ned , and Mary introduced him to Professor Beecher . 
But I can't say that Tom was much interested in the professor's talk . 
No , not at all . 
But Tom did not stay long . 
He left just as Mary and the professor were drawing a map so the professor could indicate where he had once made a big discovery . 
I see , murmured Ned . 
Well , I suppose Tom must have been thinking of something else at the time . 
Very likely , agreed Mr. Nestor . 
But Tom missed a very profitable talk . 
I was very much interested myself in what the professor told us , and so was Mary . 
She invited Mr. Beecher to come again . 
He takes after his father in being very thorough in what he does . 
Sometimes I think , went on Mr. Nestor , that Tom isn't quite steady enough . 
He's thinking of so many things , perhaps , that he can't get his mind down to the commonplace . 
I remember he once sent something here in a box labeled dynamite . 
Though there was no explosive in it , it gave us a great fright . 
But Tom is a boy , in spite of his years . 
Professor Beecher seems much older . 
We all like him very much . 
That's nice , said Ned , as he took his departure . 
He had found out what he had come to learn . 
I knew it ! Ned exclaimed as he walked home . 
I knew something was in the wind . 
The little green god of jealousy has Tom in his clutches . 
That's why my inventive friend was so anxious to go on this expedition when he learned Beecher was to go . 
He wants to beat him . 
I guess the professor has plainly shown that he wouldn't like anything better than to cut Tom out with Mary . 
Whew ! that's something to think about ! CHAPTER VI UNPLEASANT NEWS Ned Newton decided to keep to himself what he had heard at the Nestor home . 
Not for the world would he let Tom Swift know of the situation . 
That is , I won't let him know that I know , said Ned to himself , though he is probably as well aware of the situation as I am . 
But it sure is queer that this Professor Beecher should have taken such a fancy to Mary , and that her father should regard him so well . 
That is natural , I suppose . 
But I wonder how Mary herself feels about it . 
That is the part Tom would be most interested in . 
No wonder Tom wants to get ahead of this young college chap , who probably thinks he's the whole show . 
If he can find the buried city , and get the idol of gold , it would be a big feather in his cap . 
He'd have no end of honors heaped on him , and I suppose his hat wouldn't come within three sizes of fitting him . 
Then he'd stand in better than ever with Mr. Nestor . 
And , maybe , with Mary , too , though I think she is loyal to Tom . 
But one never can tell . 
However , I'm glad I know about it . 
I'll do all I can to help Tom , without letting him know that I know . 
I heard what you said about gettin' the gold , went on the officer . 
I was walkin' along and I heard you talkin' . 
Where's your pal ? I haven't any , Mr. Newbold , answered Ned with a laugh , as he recognized the man . 
Oh , pshaw ! It's Ned Newton ! exclaimed the disappointed officer . 
I thought you was talkin' to a confederate about gold , and figured maybe you was goin' to rob the bank . 
No , nothing like that , answered Ned , still much amused . 
I was talking to myself about a trip Tom Swift and I are going to take and Oh , that's all right , responded the policeman . 
I can understand it , if it had anything to do with Tom . 
Indeed he is , agreed Ned , making a mental resolve not to be so public with his thoughts in the future . 
The next few days were busy ones for Tom , Ned and , in fact , the whole Swift household . 
Tom and his father had several consultations and conducted several experiments in regard to the new stabilizer , the completion of which was so earnestly desired . 
Mr. Swift was sure he could carry the invention to a successful conclusion . 
Ned was engaged in putting the financial affairs of the Swift Company in shape , so they would practically run themselves during his ab sence . 
Then , too , there was the packing of their baggage which must be seen to . 
Of course , the main details of the trip were left to Professor Bumper , who knew just what to do . 
Eradicate came shuffling into the room where Tom was sorting out the possessions he desired to take with him , Ned assisting him in the task . 
Well , Rad , what is it ? asked Tom , with businesslike energy . 
I done heah , Massa Tom , dat yo' all's gwine off on a long trip once mo' . 
Am dat so ? Yes , that's so , Rad . 
Well , den , I'se come to ast yo' whut I'd bettah take wif me . 
But I'm sorry to say you're not going this trip . 
I I ain't gwine ? Does yo' mean dat yo' all ain't gwine to take me , Massa Tom ? That's it , Rad . 
It isn't any trip for you . 
In certain not ! broke in the voice of Koku , the giant , who entered with a big trunk Tom had sent him for . 
Master want strong man like a bull . 
He take Koku ! Look heah ! spluttered Eradicate , and his eyes flashed . 
He's gwine to take me . 
He take me ! cried Koku , and his voice was a roar while he beat on his mighty chest with his huge fists . 
Tom , seeing that the dispute was likely to be bothersome , winked at Ned and began to speak . 
I don't believe you'd like it there , Rad not where we're going . 
Why the mosquitoes there bite holes in you raise bumps on you as big as eggs . 
Oh , good land ! ejaculated the old colored man . 
Am dat so Massa Tom ? It sure is . 
Then there's another kind of bug that burrows under your fingernails , and if you don't get 'em out , your fingers drop off . 
Oh , good land , Massa Tom ! Am dat a fact ? It sure is . 
I don't want to see those things happen to you , Rad . 
Slowly the old colored man shook his head . 
I don't mahse'f , he said . 
I I guess I won't go . 
Eradicate did not stop to ask how Tom and Ned proposed to combat these two species of insects . 
But there remained Koku to dispose of , and he stood smiling broadly as Eradicate shuffled of . 
Me no 'fraid bugs , said the giant . 
No , said Tom , with a look at Ned , for he did not want to take the big man on the trip for various reasons . 
No , maybe not , Koku . 
Your skin is pretty tough . 
If you fall in it's all up with you . 
Dat true , Master Tom ? and Koku's voice trembled . 
Well , I've never seen such a fish , I'm sure , but the natives tell about it . 
Koku seemed to be considering the matter . 
Even a little fresh water crab in a brook was enough to send him shrieking to shore . 
So when Tom told of this curious fish , which many natives of Central America firmly believe in , the giant took thought with himself . 
Finally , he gave a sigh and said Me stay home and keep bad mans out of master's shop . 
Yes , I guess that's the best thing for you , assented Tom with an air of relief . 
Well , I guess that clears matters up , said Tom , as he looked over a collection of rifles and small arms , to decide which to take . 
We won't have them to worry about . 
No , only Professor Beecher , remarked Ned , with a sharp look at his chum . 
Oh , we'll dispose of him all right ! asserted Tom boldly . 
Not to speak of your own aid , added Ned . 
Oh , I'll do what I can , of course , said Tom , with an air of indifference . 
But Ned knew his chum would work ceaselessly to help get the idol of gold . 
Tom gave no sign that there was any complication in his affair with Mary Nestor , and of course Ned did not tell anything of what he knew about it . 
That night saw the preparations of Ned and Tom about completed . 
There were one or two matters yet to finish on Tom's part in relation to his business , but these offered no difficulties . 
The two chums were in the Swift home , talking over the prospective trip , when Mrs. Baggert , answering a ring at the front door , announced that Mr. Damon was outside . 
Tell him to come in , ordered Tom . 
Bless my baggage check ! exclaimed the excitable man , as he shook hands with Tom and Ned and noted the packing evidences all about . 
You're ready to go to the land of wonders . 
The land of wonders ? repeated Ned . 
Yes , that's what Professor Bumper calls the part of Honduras we're going to . 
And it must be wonderful , Tom . 
I suppose you're ready , Mr. Damon you and the professor ? Yes . 
But , Tom , I have a bit of unpleasant news for you . 
You know Professor Bumper spoke of a rival a man named Beecher who is a member of the faculty of a new and wealthy college . 
I heard him speak of him yes , and the way Tom said it no one would have suspected that he had any personal interest in the matter . 
He isn't going to give his secret away , thought Ned . 
He did say something of it , but nothing was certain , remarked Tom . 
But it is certain ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
Bless my toothpick , it's altogether too certain ! How is that ? asked Tom . 
Is Beecher certainly going to Honduras ? Yes , of course . 
There seemed to be something back of the simple statement an ominous and portending something . 
On the same steamer with us , is he ? mused Tom . 
How did you learn this ? asked Ned . 
Just got a wire from Professor Bumper telling me . 
He asked me to telephone to you about it , as he was too busy to call up on the long distance from New York . 
But instead of 'phoning I decided to come over myself . 
Glad you did , said Tom , heartily . 
Then does he fear something ? asked Ned . 
Yes , in a way . 
It would be a great thing for a young archaeologist like Beecher to accomplish a mission of this sort , and beat Professor Bumper in the race . 
Do you think that's why Beecher decided to go on the same steamer we are to take ? asked Ned . 
Yes , I do , said Mr. Damon . 
Though from what Professor Bumper said I know he regards Professor Beecher as a perfectly honorable man , as well as a brilliant student . 
It will be all the livelier with two expeditions after the same golden idol , remarked Ned . 
Yes , I think we're in for some excitement , observed Tom grimly . 
But even he did not realize all that lay before them ere they would reach Kurzon . 
Well , I guess we have everything in pretty good shape , remarked Tom to his chum a day or so after the visit of Mr. Damon . 
Everything is packed , and as I have a few personal matters to attend to I think I'll take the afternoon off . 
Go to it ! laughed Ned , guessing a thing of two . 
I've got a raft of stuff myself to look after , but don't let that keep you . 
If there is anything I can do , began Tom , don't hesitate to Nonsense ! exclaimed Ned . 
I can do it all alone . 
It's some of the company's business , anyhow , and I'm paid for looking after that . 
All right , then I'll cut along , Tom said , and he wore a relieved air . 
No , I'm sorry , but Mary isn't in , said Mrs. Nestor , answering his inquiry after greeting him . 
Not at home ? No , she went on a little visit to her cousin's at Fayetteville . 
She said something about letting you know she was going . 
She did drop me a card , answered Tom , and , somehow he did not feel at all cheerful . 
But I thought it wasn't until next week she was going . 
That was her plan , Tom . 
Her cousin wired , asking her to advance the date , and this Mary did . 
There was something about a former school chum who was also to be at Myra's house Myra is Mary's cousin you know . 
Yes , I know , assented the young inventor . 
And so Mary is gone . 
How long is she going to stay ? Oh , about two weeks . 
It depends on the kind of a time she has , I suppose . 
Yes , I suppose so , agreed Tom . 
Well , if you write before I do you might say I called , Mrs. Nestor . 
And I know Mary will be sorry she wasn't here to take a ride with you it's such a nice day , and the lady smiled as she looked at the speedy roadster . 
Maybe maybe you'd like to come for a spin ? asked Tom , half desperately . 
I'm too old to be jounced around in one of those small cars . 
Nonsense ! She rides as easily as a Pullman sleeper . 
Well , I have to go to a Red Cross meeting , anyhow , so I can't come , Tom . 
Thank you , just the same . 
Tom did not drive back immediately to his home . 
He wanted to do a bit of thinking , and he believed he could do it best by himself . 
So it was late afternoon when he again greeted Ned , who , meanwhile , had been kept very busy . 
Well ? called Tom's chum . 
Um ! was the only answer , and Tom called Koku to put the car away in the garage . 
Something wrong , mused Ned . 
The next three days were crowded with events and with work . 
Good bye , Tom , said his father . 
Good bye , and good luck ! If you don't get the idol of gold I'm sure you'll have experiences that will be valuable to you . 
We're going to get the idol of gold ! said Tom determinedly . 
Look out for the bad bugs , suggested Eradicate . 
We will , promised Ned . 
New York was reached without incident . 
The trio put up at the hotel where Professor Bumper was to meet them . 
He hasn't arrived yet , said Tom , after glancing over the names on the hotel register and not seeing Professor Bumper's among them . 
Oh , he'll be here all right , asserted Mr. Damon . 
Bless my galvanic battery ! he sent me a telegram at one o'clock this morning saying he'd be sure to meet us in New York . 
No fear of him not starting for the land of wonders . 
There are some other professors registered , though , observed Ned , as he glanced at the book , noting the names of several scientists of whom he and Tom had read . 
I wonder what they're doing in New York , replied Tom . 
They are from New England . 
Maybe there's a convention going on . 
Well , we'll have to wait , that's all , until Professor Bumper comes . 
And during that wait Tom heard something that surprised him and caused him no little worry . 
It was when Ned came back to his room , which adjoined Tom's , that the young treasurer gave his chum the news . 
I say , Tom ! Ned exclaimed . 
Who do you think those professors are , whose names we saw on the register ? I haven't the least idea . 
Why , they're of Beecher's party ! You don't mean it ! I surely do . 
How do you know ? I happened to overhear two of them talking down in the lobby a while ago . 
They didn't make any secret of it . 
They spoke freely of going with Beecher to some ancient city in Honduras , to look for an idol of gold . 
They did ? But where is Beecher ? He hasn't joined them yet . 
Their plans have been changed . 
Instead of leaving on the same steamer we are to take in the morning they are to come on a later one . 
The professors here are waiting for Beecher to come . 
Why isn't he here now ? Well , I heard one of the other scientists say that he had gone to a place called Fayetteville , and will come on from there . 
That isn't far from Shopton . 
I know , assented Tom . 
I wonder I wonder why he is going there ? I can tell you that , too . 
You can ? You're a regular detective . 
No , I just happened to overhear it . 
CHAPTER VIII OFF FOR HONDURAS Just what Tom's thoughts were , Ned , of course , could not guess . 
So he is going to see her about something important , Ned ? That's what some members of his party called it . 
And they're waiting here for him to join them ? Yes . 
And it means waiting a week for another steamer . 
And yet even if he waits for the next steamer he will get to Honduras nearly as soon as we do . 
How is that ? The next boat is a faster one . 
Then why don't we take that ? I hate dawdling along on a slow freighter . 
Well , for one thing it would hardly do to change now , when all our goods are on board . 
And besides , the captain of the Relstab , on which we are going to sail , is a friend of Professor Bumper's . 
Well , I'm just as glad Beecher and his party aren't going with us , resumed Ned , after a pause . 
Oh , I'm ready for any trouble HE might make ! quickly exclaimed Tom . 
He meant trouble that might be developed in going to Honduras , and starting the search for the lost city and the idol of gold . 
This kind of trouble Tom and his friends had experienced before , on other trips where rivals had sought to frustrate their ends . 
But , in his heart , though he said nothing to Ned about it , Tom was worried . 
Much as he disliked to admit it to himself , he feared the visit of Professor Beecher to Mary Nestor in Fayetteville had but one meaning . 
I wonder if he's going to propose to her , thought Tom . 
He has the field all to himself now , and her father likes him . 
I guess Mr. Nestor has never quite forgiven me for that mistake about the dynamite box , and that wasn't my fault . 
Then , too , the Beecher and Nestor families have been friends for years . 
He's relying on the prestige he'll get out of this idol of gold if his party finds it , thought on the young inventor . 
But I'll help find it first . 
I'm glad to have a little start of him , anyhow , even if it isn't more than two days . 
Though if our vessel is held back much by storms he may get on the ground first . 
However , that can't be helped . 
I'll do the best I can . 
These thoughts shot through Tom's mind even as Ned was asking his questions and making comments . 
Then the young inventor , shaking his shoulders as though to rid them of some weight , remarked Well , come on out and see the sights . 
It will be long before we look on Broadway again . 
When the chums returned from their sightseeing excursion , they found that Professor Bumper had arrived . 
Where's Professor Bumper ? asked Ned , the next day . 
In his room , going over books , papers and maps to make sure he has everything . 
And Mr. Damon ? Tom did not have to answer that last question . 
Into the apartment came bursting the excited individual himself . 
Bless my overshoes ! he cried , I've been looking everywhere for you ! Come on , there's no time to lose ! What's the matter now ? asked Ned . 
Oh , everything is all right , answered Mr. Damon . 
But it's nearly time for the show to start , and we don't want to be late . 
For what ? asked Tom and Ned together . 
The movies , was the laughing reply . 
Bless my loose ribs ! but I wouldn't miss him for anything . 
He's in a new play called Up in a Balloon Boys . 
It's great ! and Mr. Damon named a certain comic moving picture star in whose horse play Mr. Damon took a curious interest . 
Maybe I will , some day , said Tom . 
The truth of the matter was that he was still thinking deeply of the visit of Professor Beecher to Mary Nestor , and wondering what it portended . 
But if Tom's sleep was troubled that night he said nothing of it to his friends . 
But our friends did not seek the acquaintance of their rivals . 
Professor Bumper had made his arrangements carefully . 
As he explained to his friends , they would take the steamer from New York to Puerto Cortes , one of the principal seaports of Honduras . 
This is a town of about three thousand inhabitants , with an excellent harbor and a big pier along which vessels can tie up and discharge their cargoes directly into waiting cars . 
The preparations were finally completed . 
The party went aboard the steamer , which was a large freight vessel , carrying a limited number of passengers , and late one afternoon swung down New York Bay . 
Off for Honduras ! cried Ned gaily , as they passed the Statue of Liberty . 
I wonder what will happen before we see that little lady again . 
Who knows ? asked Tom , shrugging his shoulders , Spanish fashion . 
And there came before him the vision of a certain little lady , about whom he had been thinking deeply of late . 
No , and your submarine voyage had it all over this one for excitement , went on Ned . 
When I think of that Bless my sea legs ! interrupted Mr. Damon , overhearing the conversation . 
Don't speak of THAT trip . 
My wife never forgave me for going on it . 
But I had a fine time , he added with a twinkle of his eyes . 
Yes , that was quite a trip , observed Tom , as his mind went back to it . 
But this one isn't over yet remember . 
And I shouldn't be surprised if we had a little excitement very soon . 
What do you mean ? asked Ned . 
Up to this time the voyage from New York down into the tropical seas had been anything but exciting . 
There were not many passengers besides themselves , and the weather had been fine . 
But aside from a little curiosity when it became known that they were going to explore little known portions of Honduras , the other passengers took hardly any interest in our travelers . 
It was thought best to keep secret the fact that they were going to search for a wonderful idol of gold . 
Not even the mule and ox cart drivers , whom they would hire to take them into the wilds of the interior would be told of the real object of the search . 
It would be given out that they were looking for interesting ruins of ancient cities , with a view to getting such antiquities as might be there . 
What do you mean ? asked Ned again , when Tom did not answer him immediately . 
What's the excitement ? I think we're in for a storm , was the reply . 
The barometer is falling and I see the crew going about making everything snug . 
So we may have a little trouble toward this end of our trip . 
Let it come ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
We're not afraid of trouble , Tom . 
Swift , are we ? No , to be sure we're not . 
And yet it looks as though the storm would be a bad one . 
It won't do to lose them . 
If we didn't have the map we might not be able to find Ahem ! exclaimed Tom , with unnecessary emphasis it seemed . 
I'll help you go over your papers , Professor , he added , and with a wink and a motion of his hand , he enjoined silence on his friend . 
Ned looked around for a reason for this , and observed a man , evidently of Spanish extraction , passing them as he paced up and down the deck . 
What's the matter ? asked the scientist in a whisper , as the man went on . 
Do you know him ? Is he a ? I don't know anything about him , said Tom but it is best not to speak of our trip before strangers . 
You are right , Tom , said Professor Bumper . 
A storm was brewing , that was certain . 
The wind , which had been freshening , now sang in louder tones as it hummed through the rigging and the funnel stays and bowled over the receiving conductors of the wireless . 
The storm was not long in coming . 
The howling of the wind grew louder , flecks of foam began to separate themselves from the crests of the waves , and the vessel pitched , rolled and tossed more violently . 
For the men were determined to get to the lifeboats , and a small craft would not have had a minute to live in such seas as were running . 
There was nothing to do but to let the storm blow itself out , which it did in two days . 
Then came a period of delightful weather . 
The cargo had shifted somewhat , which gave the steamer a rather undignified list . 
We can go in two ways , and perhaps we shall find it to our advantage to use both means , said Professor Bumper . 
As near as I can tell by the ancient maps , Kurzon is in the Copan valley . 
Now the Chamelecon river seems to run to within a short distance of there , but there is no telling how far up it may be navigable . 
If we can go by boat it will be much more comfortable . 
Travel by mules and ox carts is slow and sure , but the roads are very bad , as I have heard from friends who have made explorations in Honduras . 
And , as I said , we may have to use both land and water travel to get us where we want to go . 
We can proceed as far as possible up the river , and then take to the mules . 
What about arranging for boats and animals ? asked Tom . 
I should think He suddenly ceased talking and reached for the water , taking several large swallows . 
Whew ! he exclaimed , when he could catch his breath . 
That was a hot one . 
What did you do ? asked Ned . 
Bit into a nest of red pepper . 
Guess I'll have to tell that cook to scatter his hits . 
He's bunching 'em too much in my direction , and Tom wiped the tears from his eyes . 
To answer your question , said Professor Bumper , I will say that I have made partial arrangements for men and animals , and boats if it is found feasible to use them . 
I've been in correspondence with one of the merchants here , and he promised to make arrangements for us . 
When do we leave ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I am not going to risk anything by delay , and it was evident the professor referred to his young rival whose arrival might be expected almost any time . 
I have at my command both mules and boats . 
How do you know we are going into the interior ? asked Tom , a bit sharply , for he did not like the assurance of the man . 
I saw that you are from the States . 
And those from the States do not come to Honduras except for two reasons . 
To travel and make explorations or to start trade , and professors do not usually engage in trade , and he bowed to Professor Bumper . 
I make it my business to outfit traveling parties , either for business , pleasure or scientific matters . 
I am , at your service , Val Jacinto , and he introduced himself with another low bow . 
For a moment Tom and his friends hardly knew how to accept this offer . 
It might be , as the man had said , that he was a professional tour conductor , like those who have charge of Egyptian donkey boys and guides . 
Or might he not be a spy ? This occurred to Tom no less than to Professor Bumper . 
They looked at one another while Val Jacinto bowed again and murmured At your service ! Can you provide means for taking us to the Copan valley ? asked the professor . 
You are right in one respect . 
I am a scientist and I purpose doing some exploring near Copan . 
Can you get us there ? Most expensively I mean , most expeditionlessly , said Val Jacinto eagerly . 
The charges will be most moderate . 
I can send you by boat as far as the river travel is good , and then have mules and ox carts in waiting . 
How far is it ? asked Tom . 
A hundred miles as the vulture flies , Senor , but much farther by river and road . 
We shall be a week going . 
A hundred miles in a week ! groaned Ned . 
Say , Tom , if you had your aeroplane we'd be there in an hour . 
Yes , but we haven't it . 
However , we're in no great rush . 
But we must not lose time , said Professor Bumper . 
I shall consider your offer , he added to Val Jacinto . 
I am sure you will be pleased with the humble service I may offer you , and my charges will be small . 
Adios , and he bowed himself away . 
What do you think of him ? asked Ned , as they went up to their rooms in the hotel , or rather one large room , containing several beds . 
He's a pretty slick article , said Mr. Damon . 
Bless my check book ! but he spotted us at once , in spite of our secrecy . 
I guess these guide purveyors are trained for that sort of thing , observed the scientist . 
I know my friends have often spoken of having had the same experience . 
So we have decided to engage you , Professor Bumper informed Val Jacinto the afternoon following the meeting . 
I am more than pleased , Senor . 
I shall take you into the wilds of Honduras . 
At your service ! and he bowed low . 
Humph ! I don't just like the way our friend Val says that , observed Tom to Ned a little later . 
I'd have been better pleased if he had said he'd guide us into the wilds and out again . 
If Tom could have seen the crafty smile on the face of the Spaniard as the man left the hotel , the young inventor might have felt even less confidence in the guide . 
All aboard ! This reminds me of my old camping days , Tom . 
It brought those days back , in a measure , to Tom also . 
For there were a number of canoes filled with the goods of the party , while the members themselves occupied a larger one with their personal baggage . 
Finding that Val Jacinto was regularly engaged in the business of taking explorers and mine prospectors into the interior , Professor Bumper had engaged the man . 
He seemed to be efficient . 
As Ned remarked , it did look like a camping party , for in the canoes were tents , cooking utensils and , most important , mosquito canopies of heavy netting . 
The insect pests of Honduras , as in all tropical countries , are annoying and dangerous . 
Therefore it was imperative to sleep under mosquito netting . 
On the advice of Val Jacinto , who was to accompany them , the travelers were to go up the river about fifty miles . 
The heavier portions would be transported in ox carts . 
These could be hired in Copan , it was said . 
As for the Indians , they did not seem to mind the bites of the insects . 
They sometimes made a smudge fire , Val Jacinto had said , but that was all . 
Well , we haven't seen anything of Beecher and his friends , remarked the young inventor as they were about to start . 
No , he doesn't seem to have arrived , agreed Professor Bumper . 
We'll get ahead of him , and so much the better . 
Well , are we all ready to start ? he continued , as he looked over the little flotilla which carried his party and his goods . 
The sooner the better ! cried Tom , and Ned fancied his chum was unusually eager . 
I guess he wants to make good before Beecher gets the chance to show Mary Nestor what he can do , thought Ned . 
Tom sure is after that idol of gold . 
You may start , Senor Jacinto , said the professor , and the guide called something in Indian dialect to the rowers . 
Lines were cast off and the boats moved out into the stream under the influence of the sturdy paddlers . 
Well , this isn't so bad , observed Ned , as he made himself comfortable in his canoe . 
How about it , Tom ? Oh , no . 
But this is only the beginning . 
A canopy had been arranged over their boat to keep off the scorching rays of the sun . 
The boat containing the exploring party and Val Jacinto took the lead , the baggage craft following . 
At the place where it flowed into the bay on which Puerto Cortes was built , the stream was wide and deep . 
The guide called something to the Indians , who increased their stroke . 
I tell them to pull hard and that at the end of the day's journey they will have much rest and refreshment , he translated to Professor Bumper and the others . 
Bless my ham sandwich , but they'll need plenty of some sort of refreshment , said Mr. Damon , with a sigh . 
I never knew it to be so hot . 
Don't complain yet , advised Tom , with a laugh . 
The worst is yet to come . 
It really was not unpleasant traveling , aside from the heat . 
And they had expected that , coming as they had to a tropical land . 
But , as Tom said , what lay before them might be worse . 
In a little while they had left behind them all signs of civilization . 
The river narrowed and flowed sluggishly between the banks which were luxuriant with tropical growth . 
As the canoe containing the men was paddled along , there floated down beside it what seemed to be a big , rough log . 
I wonder if that is mahogany , remarked Mr. Damon , reaching over to touch it . 
Mahogany is one of the most valuable woods of Honduras , and if this is a log of that nature Bless my watch chain ! he suddenly cried . 
Mr. Damon drew back so suddenly that he tilted the canoe , and the black paddlers looked around wonderingly . 
Alligator , explained Jacinto succinctly , in their tongue . 
Bless my bless my hesitated Mr. Damon , and for one of the very few times in his life his language failed him . 
Are there many of them hereabouts ? asked Ned , looking back at the swirl left by the saurian . 
Plenty , said the guide , with a shrug of his shoulders . 
He seemed to do as much talking that way , and with his hands , as he did in speech . 
The river is full of them . 
Don't go in swimming , was the significant advice . 
Wait , I'll show you , and he called up the canoe just behind . 
In this canoe was a quantity of provisions . 
Hardly a second later there was a rushing in the water as though a submarine were about to come up . 
An ugly snout was raised , two rows of keen teeth snapped shut as a scissors like jaw opened , and the meat was gone . 
See ! was the guide's remark , and something like a cold shiver of fear passed over the white members of the party . 
This water is not made in which to swim . 
Be careful ! We certainly shall , agreed Tom . 
And always hungry , observed Jacinto grimly . 
And to think that I that I nearly had my hand on it , murmured Mr. Damon . 
Ugh ! Bless my eyeglasses ! The alligator nearly had your hand , said the guide . 
They can turn in the water like a flash , wherefore it is not wise to pat one on the tail lest it present its mouth instead . 
They paddled on up the river , the dusky Indians now and then breaking out into a chant that seemed to give their muscles new energy . 
The song , if song it was , passed from one boat to the other , and as the chant boomed forth the craft shot ahead more swiftly . 
They made a landing about noon , and lunch was served . 
Tom and his friends were hungry in spite of the heat . 
Moreover , they were experienced travelers and had learned not to fret over inconveniences and discomforts . 
the Ind ians ate by themselves , two acting as servants to Jacinto and the professor's party . 
As is usual in traveling in the tropics , a halt was made during the heated middle of the day . 
Then , as the afternoon shadows were waning , the party again took to the canoes and paddled on up the river . 
Do you know of a good place to stop during the night ? asked Professor Bumper of Jacinto . 
Oh , yes a most excellent place . 
It is where I always bring scientific parties I am guiding . 
You may rely on me . 
We stay here for the night , said Jacinto . 
It is a good place . 
It looks picturesque enough , observed Mr. Damon . 
But it is rather wild . 
We are a good distance from a settlement , agreed the guide . 
But one can not explore and find treasure in cities , and he shrugged his shoulders again . 
Find treasure ? What do you mean ? asked Tom quickly . 
Do you think that we ? Pardon , Senor , replied Jacinto softly . 
I think that all you scientific parties will take treasure if you can find it . 
We are looking for traces of the old Honduras civilization , put in Professor Bumper . 
And doubtless you will find it , was the somewhat too courteous answer of the guide . 
Make camp quickly ! he called to the Indians in their tongue . 
You must soon get under the nets or you will be eaten alive ! he told Tom . 
There are many mosquitoes here . 
The tents were set up , smudge fires built and supper quickly prepared . 
Involuntarily he clutched Tom's arm and pointed , his face showing fear in the fast gathering darkness . 
CHAPTER XI THE VAMPIRES Tom Swift looked deliberately around . 
It was characteristic of him that , though by nature he was prompt in action , he never acted so hurriedly as to obscure his judgment . 
So , though now Ned showed a trace of strange excitement , Tom was cool . 
What is it ? asked the young inventor . 
A shadow ! he exclaimed . 
Since when were you afraid of shadows , Ned ? I'm not afraid of ordinary shadows , answered Ned , and in his voice there was an uncertain tone . 
I'm not afraid of my shadow or yours , Tom , or anybody's that I can see . 
But this wasn't any human shadow . 
It was as if a great big blob of wet darkness had been waved over your head . 
That's a queer explanation , Tom said in a low voice . 
A great big blob of wet darkness ! But that just describes it , went on Ned , looking up and around . 
I remember that odor from the time we went hunting with your electric rifle in the jungle , and got near the den in the rocks where the tigers lived . 
Well , there is a wild beast smell all around here , admitted Tom , sniffing the air . 
It's the alligators in the river I guess . 
You know they have an odor of musk . 
Do you mean to say you didn't feel that shadow flying over us just now ? asked Ned . 
Well , I felt something sail through the air , but I took it to be a big bird . 
I didn't pay much attention . 
Come on ! cried Tom , in what he tried to make a cheerful voice . 
This is getting on your nerves , Ned , and I didn't know you had any . 
Let's go back and turn in . 
I'm dog tired and the mosquitoes are beginning to find that we're here . 
Let's get under the nets . 
Then the black shadows won't get you . 
Not at all unwilling to leave so gloomy a scene , Ned , after a brief glance up and down the dark river , followed his chum . 
They found Professor Bumper and Mr. Damon in their tent , a separate one having been set up for the two men adjoining that of the youths . 
Bless my fountain pen ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , as he caught sight of Tom and Ned in the flickering light of the smudge fire between the two canvas shelters . 
We were just wondering what had become of you . 
We were chasing shadows ! laughed Tom . 
But you look cozy enough in there . 
It did , indeed , look cheerful in contrast to the damp and dark jungle all about . 
Professor Bumper , being an experienced traveler , knew how to provide for such comforts as were possible . 
In the middle of the tent the professor had made a table of his own and Mr. Damon's suit cases , and on this placed a small dry battery electric light . 
He was making some notes , doubtless for a future book . 
Jacinto was going about the camp , seeing that the Indians were at their duties , though most of them had gone directly to sleep after supper . 
Better get inside and under the nets , advised Professor Bumper to Tom and Ned . 
The mosquitoes here are the worst I ever saw . 
We're beginning to believe that , returned Ned , who was unusually quiet . 
I can't stand it any longer . 
I'm itching in a dozen places now from their bites . 
Tom was just on the edge of a deep sleep when he heard Ned murmur I can't understand it ! What's that ? asked the young inventor . 
I say I can't understand it . 
Understand what ? That shadow . 
The feeling , sensation or dream whatever it was perhaps a nightmare became at last so real to Ned that he struggled himself into wakefulness . 
With an effort he sat up , uttering an inarticulate cry . 
To his surprise he was answered . 
Some one asked What is the matter ? Who who are you ? asked Ned quickly , trying to peer through the darkness . 
This is Jacinto your guide , was the soft answer . 
I was walking about camp and , hearing you murmuring , I came to your tent . 
Is anything wrong ? For a moment Ned did not answer . 
He listened and could tell by the continued heavy and regular breathing of his chum that Tom was still asleep . 
Are you in our tent ? asked Ned , at length Yes , answered Jacinto . 
I came in to see what was the matter with you . 
Are you ill ? No , of course not , said Ned , a bit shortly . 
I I had a bad dream , that was all . 
For that I am glad . 
Once more Ned composed himself to sleep , and this time successfully , for he did not have any more unpleasant dreams . 
It was about two o'clock in the morning , as they ascertained later , when the whole camp white travelers and all was suddenly awakened by a wild scream . 
It seemed to come from one of the natives , who called out a certain word ever and over again . 
To Tom and Ned it sounded like Oshtoo ! Oshtoo ! Oshtoo ! What's the matter ? cried Professor Bumper . 
The vampires ! came the answering voice of Jacinto . 
The same instant he was aware of a dark enfolding shadow passing over him , and , with a shudder of fear , he jumped back . 
CHAPTER XII A FALSE FRIEND What is it ? What's the matter ? cried Tom springing from his cot and hastening to the side of his chum in the tent . 
What has happened , Ned ? I don't know , but Jacinto is yelling something about vampires ! Vampires ? Yes . 
And he's warning us to be careful . 
I stuck my head out just now and I felt that same sort of shadow I felt this evening when we were down near the river . 
Shadow ! yelled Tom , unconsciously adding to the din that seemed to pervade every part of the camp . 
Look out ! yelled Ned . 
But what's it all about , anyhow ? Tom asked . 
It is a raid by vampire bats ! was all Tom and Ned could distinguish . 
We shall have to light fires to keep them away , if we can suc ceed . 
You're not going out there , are you ? asked Ned . 
I certainly am ! If there's a fight I want to be in it , bats or anything else . 
Here , you have a light like mine . 
Flash it on , and hang it somewhere on yourself . 
Then get a club and come on . 
The lights will blind the bats , and we can see to hit 'em ! Tom's plan seemed to be a good one . 
His lamp and Ned's had small hooks on them , so they could be carried in the upper coat pocket , showing a gleam of light and leaving the hands free for use . 
Out of the tents rushed the young men to find Professor Bumper and Mr. Damon before them . 
The two men had clubs and were striking about in the half darkness , for now the Indians had set several fires aglow . 
And in the gleams , constantly growing brighter as more fuel was piled on , the young inventor and his chum saw a weird sight . 
Circling and wheeling about in the camp clearing were many of the black shadowy forms that had caused Ned such alarm . 
Great bats they were , and a dangerous species , if Jacinto was to be believed . 
The uncanny creatures flew in and out among the trees and tents , now swooping low near the Indians or the travelers . 
At such times clubs would be used , often with the effect of killing or stunning the flying pests . 
For a time it seemed as if the bats would fairly overwhelm the camp , so many of them were there . 
We are safe for the present ! exclaimed Jacinto with a sigh of relief . 
Do you think they will come back ? asked Tom . 
They may there is no telling . 
These vampire bats sometimes depopulate a whole village . 
Bless my shoe laces ! cried Mr. Damon . 
You don't mean to say that the creatures can eat up a whole village ? Not quite . 
Though they might if they got the chance , was the answer of the Spanish guide . 
Then the villagers come back . 
It was only a small colony that visited us to night or we would have had more trouble . 
I do not think this lot will come back . 
We have killed too many of them , and he looked about on the ground where many of the uncanny creatures were still twitching in the death struggle . 
Come back again ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my skin ! I hope not ! I've had enough of bats and mosquitoes , he added , as he slapped at his face and neck . 
Indeed the party of whites were set upon by the night insects to such an extent that it was necessary to hurry back to the protection of the nets . 
Tom and Ned kicked outside the bat the former had killed in their tent , and then both went back to their cots . 
But it was some little time before they fell asleep . 
And they did not have much time to rest , for an early start must be made to avoid the terrible heat of the middle of the day . 
Whew ! whistled Ned , as he and Tom arose in the gray dawn of the morning when Jacinto announced the breakfast which the Indian cook had prepared . 
That was some night ! If this is a sample of the wilds of Honduras , give me the tameness of Shopton . 
Oh , we've gone through with worse than this , laughed Tom . 
It's all in the day's work . 
I guess we're a bit soft , Ned , though we had hard enough work in that tunnel digging . 
They were exceptionally large , some almost as big as hawks . 
and were of the sub family Desmodidae , the scientist said . 
This is a true blood sucking bat , went on the professor . 
This , and he pointed to the nose leaves , is the sucking apparatus . 
The bat makes an opening in the skin with its sharp teeth and proceeds to extract the blood . 
I can well believe two or three of them , attacking a steer or mule at once , could soon weaken it so the animal would die . 
And a man , too ? asked Ned . 
Well a man has hands with which to use weapons , but a helpless quadruped has not . 
Though if a sufficient number of these bats attacked a man at the same time , he would have small chance to escape alive . 
Their bites , too , may be poisonous for all I know . 
The Indians seemed glad to leave the place of the bats , as they called the camp site . 
Jacinto explained that the Indians believed a vampire could kill them while they slept , and they were very much afraid of the blood sucking bats . 
There were many other species in the tropics , Professor Bumper explained , most of which lived on fruit or on insects they caught . 
The blood sucking bats were comparatively few , and the migratory sort fewer still . 
Well , we're on our way once more , remarked Tom as again they were in the canoes being paddled up the river . 
How much longer does your water trip take , Professor ? I hardly know , and Professor Bumper looked to Jacinto to answer . 
We go two more days in the canoes , the guide answered , and then we shall find the mules waiting for us at a place called Hidjio . 
From then on we travel by land until well until you get to the place where you are going . 
I suppose you know where it is ? he added , nodding toward the professor . 
I am leaving that part to you . 
Oh , I have a map , showing where I want to begin some excavations , was the answer . 
We must first go to Copan and see what arrangements we can make for laborers . 
After that well , we shall trust to luck for what we shall find . 
There are said to be many curious things , went on Jacinto , speaking as though he had no interest . 
You have mentioned buried cities . 
Have you thought what may be in them great heathen temples , idols , perhaps ? For a moment none of the professor's companions spoke . 
It was as though Jacinto had tried to get some information . 
Finally the scientist said Oh , yes , we may find an idol . 
I understand the ancient people , who were here long before the Spaniards came , worshiped idols . 
But we shall take whatever antiquities we find . 
Huh ! grunted Jacinto , and then he called to the paddlers to increase their strokes . 
The journey up the river was not very eventful . 
Many alligators were seen , and Tom and Ned shot several with the electric rifle . 
Toward the close of the third day's travel there was a cry from one of the rear boats , and an alarm of a man having fallen overboard was given . 
Tom turned in time to see the poor fellow's struggles , and at the same time there was a swirl in the water and a black object shot forward . 
An alligator is after him ! yelled Ned . 
I see , observed Tom calmly . 
Hand me the rifle , Ned . 
Tom took quick aim and pulled the trigger . 
The explosive electric bullet went true to its mark , and the great animal turned over in a death struggle . 
But the river was filled with them , and no sooner had the one nearest the unfortunate Indian been disposed of than another made a dash for the man . 
There was a wild scream of agony and then a dark arm shot up above the red foam . 
The waters seethed and bubbled as the alligators fought under it for possession of the paddler . 
Tom fired bullet after bullet from his wonderful rifle into the spot , but though he killed some of the alligators this did not save the man's life . 
His body was not seen again , though search was made for it . 
The accident cast a little damper over the party , and there was a feeling of gloom among the Indians . 
But where are the mules we are to use in traveling to morrow ? asked the professor of Jacinto . 
We shall march there in the morning . 
No use to go there at night when all is dark . 
I suppose that is so . 
The Indians made camp as usual , the goods being brought from the canoes and piled up near the tents . 
Hello ! cried Tom , awakening the next morning to find the sun streaming into his tent . 
We must have overslept , Ned . 
We were to start before old Sol got in his heavy work , but we haven't had breakfast yet . 
I didn't hear any one call us , remarked Ned . 
Nor I. Wonder if we're the only lazy birds . 
He looked from the tent in time to see Mr. Damon and the professor emerging . 
Then Tom noticed something queer . 
The canoes were not on the river bank . 
There was not an Indian in sight , and no evidence of Jacinto . 
What's the matter ? asked the young inventor . 
Have the others gone on ahead ? I rather think they've gone back , was the professor's dry comment . 
The Indians seem to have deserted us at the ending of this stage of our journey . 
Bless my time table ! cried Mr. Damon . 
You don't say so ! What does it mean ? What has becomes of our friend Jacinto ? I'm afraid he was rather a false friend , was the professor's answer . 
This is the note he left . 
He has gone and taken the canoes and all the Indians with him , and he held out a paper on which was some scribbled writing . 
CHAPTER XIII FORWARD AGAIN What does it all mean ? asked Tom , seeing that the note was written in Spanish , a tongue which he could speak slightly but read indifferently . 
This is some of Beecher's work , was Professor Bumper's grim comment . 
It seems that Jacinto was in his pay . 
In his pay ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Do you mean that Beecher deliberately hired Jacinto to betray us ? Well , no . 
No harm shall come to you , I swear it on my honor ! Queer idea of honor he has ! commented Tom , grimly . 
I agreed , in case any rival expeditions came to lead them astray if I could . 
So , knowing from what you said that you were going to this place , I engaged myself to you , planning to do what I have done . 
So I have led you to this wilderness . 
It is far from the Copan , but you are near an Indian village , and you will be able to get help in a week or so . 
In the meanwhile you will not starve , as you have plenty of supplies . 
If you will travel northeast you will come again to Puerto Cortes in due season . 
As for the money I had from you , I deposit it to your credit , Professor Beecher having made me an allowance for steering rival parties on the wrong trail . 
So I lose nothing , and I save my honor . 
I write this note as I am leaving in the night with the Indians . 
I put some harmless sedative in your tea that you might sleep soundly , and not awaken until we were well on our way . 
Do not try to follow us , as the river will carry us swiftly away . 
And , let me add , there is no personal animosity on the part of Professor Beecher against you . 
I should have done to any rival expedition the same as I have done with you . 
I'd like to start after him the biggest alligator in the river , was Ned's comment . 
Professor Bumper said nothing for several seconds . 
There was a strange look on his face , and then he laughed shortly , as though the humor of the situation appealed to him . 
Professor Beecher has more gumption than I gave him credit for , he said . 
It was a clever trick ! Trick ! cried Tom . 
Beecher goes on the theory that all is fair in love and war , I suppose , and he may call this a sort of scientific war . 
Ned wondered , as he looked at his chum , how much love there was in it . 
Clearly Beecher was determined to get that idol of gold . 
Well , it can't be helped , and we must make the best of it , said Tom , after a pause . 
Send the mule drivers after them ? questioned Ned . 
What do you mean to do ? Do ? Why keep on , of course . 
It isn't the first time I've been pretty well stranded on an expedition of this kind , and sometimes from the same cause the actions of a rival . 
Now we'll turn the tables on the other fellows and see how they like it . 
The professor's right let's have breakfast . 
Jacinto seems to have told the truth . 
Nothing of ours is missing . 
Tom and Ned got the meal , and then a consultation was held as to what was best to be done . 
We can't go on any further by water , that's sure , said Tom . 
In the first place the river is too shallow , and secondly we have no canoes . 
So the only thing is to go on foot through the jungle . 
But how can we , and carry all this stuff ? asked Ned . 
We needn't carry it ! cried Professor Bumper . 
We'll leave it here , where it will be safe enough , and tramp on to the nearest Indian village . 
There we'll hire bearers to take our stuff on until we can get mules . 
I'm not going to turn back ! Good ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my rubber boots ! but that's what I say keep on ! Oh , no ! we'll never turn back , agreed Tom . 
But how can we manage it ? asked Ned . 
We've just got to ! And when you have to do a thing , it's a whole lot easier to do than if you just feel as though you ought to . 
So , lively is the word ! cried Tom , in answer . 
We'll pack up what we can carry and leave the rest , added the scientist . 
Being an experienced traveler Professor Bumper had arranged his baggage so that it could be carried by porters if necessary . 
Everything could be put into small packages , including the tents and food supply . 
I'm not afraid to try . 
Nor I ! cried Mr. Damon . 
The baggage , stores and supplies that were to be left behind were made as snug as possible , and so piled up that wild beasts could do the least harm . 
Then a pack was made up for each one to carry . 
They would take weapons , of course , Tom Swift's electric rifle being the one he choose for himself . 
They expected to be able to shoot game on their way , and this would provide them food in addition to the concentrated supply they carried . 
Small tents , in sections , were carried , there being two , one for Tom and Ned and one for Mr. Damon and the professor . 
As far as could be learned from a casual inspection , Jacinto and his deserting Indians had taken back with them only a small quantity of food . 
They were traveling light and down stream , and could reach the town much more quickly than they had come away from it . 
That Beecher certainly was slick , commented Professor Bumper when they were ready to start . 
He must have known about what time I would arrive , and he had Jacinto waiting for us . 
I thought it was too good to be true , to get an experienced guide like him so easily . 
But it was all planned , and I was so engrossed in thinking of the ancient treasures I hope to find that I never thought of a possible trick . 
Well , let's start ! and he led the way into the jungle , carrying his heavy pack as lightly as did Tom . 
They stopped at noon under a bower they made of palms , and , spreading the nets over them , got a little rest after a lunch . 
Then , when the sun was less hot , they started off again . 
Forward is the word ! cried Ned cheerfully . 
What is it ? asked Ned in a whisper . 
I don't know , but it's some big animal there in the bushes , was Tom's low voiced answer . 
The rustling increased , and a form could be seen indistinctly . 
Tom aimed the deadly gun and stood ready to pull the trigger . 
Ned , tho had a side view into the underbrush , gave a sudden cry . 
Don't shoot , Tom ! he yelled . 
The man , startled and alarmed , shrank back and was about to run into the jungle whence he had emerged . 
Small wonder if he had , considering the reception he so unwittingly met with . 
aware of the necessity for making inquiries of one who knew that part of the jungle , quickly called to him . 
Hold on ! he shouted . 
I thought at first you were a tapir or a tiger . 
I say , Professor , Tom called back to the savant , you'd better speak to him in his lingo , I can't manage it . 
He may be useful in guiding us to that Indian village Jacinto told us of . 
Bless my moving picture ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What's the matter now ? Is anything wrong ? Does he refuse to help us ? No , it isn't that , was the answer . 
In fact he came here to help us . 
Tom , this is the brother of the Indian who fell overboard and who was eaten by the alligators . 
He says you were very kind to try to save his brother with your rifle , and for that reason he has come back to help us . 
Come back ? queried Tom . 
These Indians are queer people . 
They don't show much emotion , but they have deep feelings . 
This one says he will devote himself to your service from now on . 
I believe we can count on him . 
He is deeply grateful to you , Tom . 
I'm glad of that for all our sakes . 
But what does he say about Jacinto ? The professor asked some more questions , receiving answers , and then translated them . 
This Indian , whose name is Tolpec , says Jacinto is a fraud , exclaimed Professor Bumper . 
He made all the Indians leave us in the night , though many of them were willing to stay and fill the contract they had made . 
But Jacinto would not let them , making them desert . 
Tolpec went away with the others , but because of what Tom had done he planned to come back at the first chance and be our guide . 
Accordingly he jumped ashore from one of the canoes , and made his way to our camp . 
He got there , found it deserted and followed us , coming up just now . 
Well I'm glad I didn't frighten him off with my gun , remarked Tom grimly . 
So he agrees with us that Jacinto is a scoundrel , does he ? I guess he might as well classify Professor Beecher in the same way . 
I am not quite so sure of that , said Professor Bumper slowly . 
I can not believe Beecher would play such a trick as this , though some over zealous friend of his might . 
Oh , of course Beecher did it ! cried Tom . 
He heard we were coming here , figured out that we'd start ahead of him , and he wanted to side track us . 
Well , he did it all right , and Tom's voice was bitter . 
He has only side tracked us for a while , announced Professor Bumper in cheerful tones . 
What do you mean ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I mean that this Indian comes just in the nick of time . 
He will stay with us to night and in the morning go on to the nearest Indian town and come back with porters and helpers . 
So it was agreed that they would make a forced march back through the jungle to where they had been deserted by Jacinto . 
There they would make camp for the night , and until such time as Tolpec could return with a force of porters . 
It was not easy , that backward tramp through the jungle , especially as night had fallen . 
But the new Indian guide could see like a cat , and led the party along paths they never could have found by themselves . 
For there was in the woods an animal of the leopard family , called tiger or tigre by the natives , that was exceedingly fierce and dangerous . 
But watchfulness prevented any accident , and eventually the party reached the place where they had left their goods . 
Nothing had been disturbed , and finally a fire was made , the tents set up and a light meal , with hot tea served . 
We'll get ahead of Beecher yet , said Tom . 
You seem as anxious as Professor Bumper , observed Mr. Damon , I guess I am , admitted Tom . 
I want to see that idol of gold in the possession of our party . 
Well , maybe he only wanted to get us back here , and then he'll desert , too . 
Maybe that's what he's done now , making us lose two or three days by inducing us to return , waiting for what will never happen his return with other natives . 
A silence followed Ned's intimation . 
CHAPTER XV IN THE COILS Ned , do you really think Tolpec is going to desert us ? asked Tom . 
Well , I don't know , was the slowly given reply . 
It's a possibility , isn't it ? Yes , it is , broke in Professor Bumper . 
But what if it is ? We might as well trust him , and if he proves true , as I believe he will , we'll be so much better off . 
If he proves a traitor we'll only have lost a few days , for if he doesn't come back we can go on again in the way we started . 
But that's just it ! complained Tom . 
We don't want to lose any time with that Beecher chap on our trail . 
I am not so very much concerned about him , remarked Professor Bumper , dryly . 
Why not ? snapped out Mr. Damon . 
Well , because I think he'll have just about as hard work locating the hidden city , and finding the idol of gold , as we'll have . 
In other words it will be an even thing , unless he gets too far ahead of us , or keeps us back , and I don't believe he can do that now . 
So I thought it best to take a chance with this Indian . 
He would hardly have taken the trouble to come all the way back , and run the risks he did , just to delay us a few days . 
However , we'll soon know . 
Meanwhile , we'll take it easy and wait for the return of Tolpec and his friends . 
And waiting is about the hardest work there is . 
Yes , Tolpec has not only to locate the settlement , Tom admitted , but he must persuade the natives to come back with him . 
He may have trouble in that , especially if it is known that he has left Jacinto , who , I imagine , is a power among the tribes here . 
But there were only two things left to do wait and hope . 
Four days passed and there was no sign of Tolpec . 
Eager ly , and not a little anxiously , they watched the jungle path along which he had disappeared . 
Oh , come on ! exclaimed Tom one morning , when the day seemed a bit cooler than its predecessor . 
Let's go for a hunt , or something ! I'm tired of sitting around camp . 
Bless my watch hands ! So am I ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Let's all go for a trip . 
It will do us good . 
And perhaps I can get some specimens of interest , added Professor Bumper , who , in addition to being an archaeologist , was something of a naturalist . 
Accordingly , having made everything snug in camp , the party , Tom and Ned equipped with electric rifles , and the professor with a butterfly net and specimen boxes , set forth . 
Mr. Damon said he would carry a stout club as his weapon . 
The jungle , as usual , was teeming with life , but as Ned and Tom did not wish to kill wantonly they refrained from shooting until later in the day . 
For once it was dead , game did not keep well in that hot climate , and needed to be cooked almost immediately . 
We'll try some shots on our back trip , said the young inventor . 
Professor Bumper found plenty of his own particular kind of game which he caught in the net , transferring the specimens to the boxes he carried . 
But I didn't let him get away , he said in triumph when he had dropped the clawing insect into the cyanide bottle where death came painlessly . 
It is well worth a sore thumb . 
Well , it's about time we shot something , I think , remarked Ned , when they had been out about two hours . 
Let's try for some of these wild turkeys . 
They ought to go well roasted even if it isn't Thanksgiving . 
I'm with you , agreed Tom . 
Let's see who has the best luck . 
But tone down the charge in your rifle and use a smaller projectile , or you'll have nothing but a bunch of feathers to show for your shot . 
The guns are loaded for deer . 
The change was made , and once more the two young men started off , a little ahead of Professor Bumper and Mr. Damon . 
Tom and Ned had not gone far , however , before they heard a strange cry from Mr. Damon . 
There were really no tigers in Honduras , the jaguar being called a tiger by the natives , while the cougar is called a lion . 
Come on , Ned ! cried Tom . 
Kill it , Tom ! Kill it ! begged the eccentric man . 
Bless my insurance policy , but it's a terrible beast ! And so it was , at first glance . 
For it was a giant iguana , one of the most repulsive looking of the lizards . 
Even the smaller ones look dangerous , and this one , which was about five feet long , looked capable of attacking a man and injuring him . 
As a matter of fact the iguanas are harmless , their shape and coloring being designed to protect them . 
Don't be afraid , Mr. Damon , called Tom , still laughing . 
It won't hurt you ! I'm not so positive of that . 
It won't let me pass . 
Just take your club and poke it out of the way , the young inventor advised . 
It's only waiting to be shoved . 
Then you do it , Tom . 
Bless my looking glass , but I don't want to go near it ! If my wife could see me now she'd say it served me just right . 
Mr. Damon was not a coward , but the giant iguana was not pleasant to look at . 
Tom , with the butt of his rifle , gave it a gentle shove , whereupon the creature scurried off through the brush as though glad to make its escape unscathed . 
I thought it was a new kind of alligator , said Mr. Damon with a sigh of relief . 
Where is it ? asked Professor Bumper , coming up at this juncture . 
A new species of alligator ? Let me see it ! It's too horrible , said Mr. Damon . 
I never want to see one again . 
We can't take it with us if we get it , Tom called after his friend . 
We might take the skin , answered the professor . 
I have a standing order for such things from one of the museums I represent . 
I'd like to get it . 
Then they are often eaten . 
We can have a change of diet . 
We'd better follow him , said Tom to Ned . 
We'll have to let the turkeys go for a while . 
He may get into trouble . 
Off they started through the jungle , trailing after the impetuous professor who was intent on capturing the iguana . 
The giant lizard's progress could be traced by the disturbance of the leaves and underbrush , and the professor was following as closely as possible . 
So fast did he go that Ned , Tom and Mr. Damon , following , lost sight of him several times , and Tom finally called Wait a minute . 
We'll all be lost if you keep this up . 
I'll have him in another minute , answered the professor . 
I can almost reach him now . 
Then Oh ! His voice ended in a scream that seemed to be one of terror . 
So sudden was the change that Tom and Ned , who were together , ahead of Mr. Damon , looked at one another in fear . 
What has happened ? whispered Ned , pausing . 
Don't stop to ask come on ! shouted Tom . 
At that instant again came the voice of the savant . 
Tom ! Ned ! he gasped , rather than cried . 
I'm caught in the coils ! Quick quick if you would save me ! In the coils ! repeated Ned . 
What does he mean ? Can the giant iguana Tom Swift did not stop to answer . 
With his electric rifle in readiness , he leaped forward through the jungle . 
CHAPTER XVI A MEETING IN THE JUNGLE Before Tom and Ned reached the place whence Professor Bumper had called , they heard strange noises , other than the imploring voice of their friend . 
Something like a great whip was beating about close to two trees that grew near together . 
Between the two trees , and seemingly bound to them by a great coiled rope , spotted and banded , was the body of Professor Bumper . 
His arms were pinioned to his sides and there was horror and terror on his face , that looked imploringly at the youths from above the topmost coil of those encircling him . 
What is it ? cried Mr. Damon , as he ran pantingly up . 
What has caught him ? Is it the giant iguana ? It's a snake a great boa ! gasped Tom . 
It has him in its coils . 
But it is wound around the trees , too . 
That alone prevents it from crushing the professor to death . 
Ned , be ready with your rifle . 
I'm going to fire ! suddenly cried Tom . 
He had seen his chance and he took it . 
There was the faint report the crack of the electric rifle and the folds of the serpent seemed to relax . 
I see a good chance now , added Ned , who had taken the small charge from his weapon , replacing it with a heavier one . 
His rifle was also discharged in the direction of the snake , and Tom saw that the hit was a good one , right through the ugly head of the reptile . 
Its folds relaxed , and the coils of the great body fell in a heap at the roots of the two trees , between which the scientist had been standing . 
Are you hurt ? asked Tom , carrying the limp form over to a grassy place . 
There was no answer , the savant's eyes were closed and he breathed but faintly . 
Ned Newton fired two more electric bullets into the still writhing body of the boa . 
I guess he's all in , he called to Tom . 
Bless my horseradish ! And so our friend seems to be , commented Mr. Damon . 
Have you anything with which to revive him , Tom ? Yes . 
See if you can find a little water . 
I have some in my flask . 
Tom mixed a dose of the spirits which he carried with him , and this , forced between the pallid lips of the scientist , revived him . 
What happened ? he asked faintly as he opened his eyes . 
Oh , yes , I remember , he added slowly . 
The boa Don't try to talk , urged Tom . 
The snake is dead , or dying . 
Are you much hurt ? Professor Bumper appeared to be considering . 
He moved first one limb , then another . 
He seemed to have the power over all his muscles . 
I see how it happened , he said , as he sat up , after taking a little more of the ammonia . 
Then I felt myself caught , as if in the hands of a giant , and bound fast between the two trees . 
It was the big boa that whipped itself around you , as you leaned over , explained Tom , as Ned came up to announce that the snake was no longer dangerous . 
But when it coiled around you it also coiled around the two trees , you , fortunately slipping between them . 
Had it not been that their trunks took off some of the pressure of the coils you wouldn't have lasted a minute . 
Well , I was pretty badly squeezed as it was , remarked the professor . 
I hardly had breath enough left to call to you . 
I tried to fight off the serpent , but it was of no use . 
I should say not ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my circus ring ! one might as well try to combat an elephant ! But , my dear professor , are you all right now ? I think so yes . 
Though I shall be lame and stiff for a few days , I fear . 
Professor Bumper was indeed unable to go about much for a few days after his encounter with the great serpent . 
He stretched out in a hammock under trees in the camp clearing , and with his friends waited for the possible return of Tolpec and the porters . 
Ned and Tom made one or two short hunting trips , and on these occasions they kept a lookout in the direction the Indian had taken when he went away . 
For he's sure to come back that way if he comes at all , declared Ned which I am beginning to doubt . 
Well , he may not come , agreed Tom , who was beginning to lose some of his first hope . 
But he won't necessarily come from the same direction he took . 
He may have had to go in an entirely different way to get help . 
We'll hope for the best . 
Professor Bumper was able to be about , and Tom and Ned noticed that there was an anxious look on his face . 
What do you say , Professor Bumper ought we not to start off on our own account ? We had better if Tolpec does not return today , was the answer . 
It is Tolpec coming back ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Hurray ! Now our troubles are over t Bless my meal ticket ! Now we can start ! It may be Jacinto , suggested Ned . 
Nonsense ! you old cold water pitcher ! cried Tom . 
Me come back ! he exclaimed in gutteral English , using about half of his foreign vocabulary . 
I see you did , answered Professor Bumper in the man's own tongue . 
Is everything all right ? All right , was the answer . 
These Indians will take you where you want to go , and will not leave you as Jacinto did . 
We'll start in the morning ! exclaimed the savant his own cheerful self again , now that there was a prospect of going further into the interior . 
Tell the men to get something to eat , Tolpec . 
There is plenty for all . 
Good ! grunted the new guide and soon the hungry Indians , who had come far , were satisfying their hunger . 
But the Indians were a friendly tribe , of which he was a member , and could be depended on . 
There was a feast and a sort of celebration in camp that night . 
Tom and Ned shot two deer , and these formed the main part of the feast and the Indians made merry about the fire until nearly midnight . 
They did not seem to mind in the least the swarms of mosquitoes and other bugs that flew about , attracted by the light . 
As for Tom Swift and his friends , their nets protected them . 
An early start was made the following morning . 
Such packages of goods and supplies as could not well be carried by the Indians in their head straps , were loaded on the backs of the pack mules . 
The march onward for the next two days was tiresome but the Indians Tolpec had secured were as faithful and efficient as he had described them , and good progress was made . 
There were a few accidents . 
One native fell into a swiftly running stream as they were fording it and lost a box containing some much needed things . 
But as the man's life was saved Professor Bumper said it made up for the other loss . 
Another accident did not end so auspiciously . 
One of the bearers was bitten by a poisonous snake , and though prompt measures were taken , the poison spread so rapidly that the man died . 
In due season the Indian village was reached . 
where , after a day spent in holding funeral services over the dead bearer , preparations were made for proceeding farther . 
I hope we have no more delays . 
I hope not , either , agreed Tom . 
That Beecher may be there ahead of us . 
Weary marches fell to their portion . 
There were mountains to climb , streams to ford or swim , sending the carts over on rudely made rafts . 
There were storms to endure , and the eternal heat to fight . 
But finally the party emerged from the lowlands of the coast and went up in among the hills , where though the going was harder , the climate was better . 
It was not so hot and moist . 
We will begin test excavations in the morning , he said . 
Some one is coming , said Tom to Ned . 
Almost as he spoke there filed into the clearing where the camp had been set up , a cavalcade of white men , followed by Indians . 
And at the sight of one of the white men Tom Swift uttered a cry . 
Professor Beecher ! gasped the young inventor . 
The barbaric chant of the native bearers ceased abruptly , and there was a look of surprise shown on the face of Professor Fenimore Beecher . 
For Professor Beecher it was , in the lead of the rival expedition . 
Bless my shoe laces ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
Is it really Beecher ? asked Ned , though he knew as well as Tom that it was the young archaeologist . 
It certainly is ! declared Tom . 
And he has nerve to follow us so closely ! Maybe he thinks we have nerve to get here ahead of him , suggested Ned , smiling grimly . 
Probably , agreed Tom , with a short laugh . 
Well , it evidently surprises him to find us here at all , after the mean trick he played on us to get Jacinto to lead us into the jungle and desert us . 
That's right , assented Ned . 
Well , what's the next move ? There seemed to be some doubt about this on the part of both expeditions . 
At the sight of Professor Beecher , Professor Bumper , who had come out of his tent , hurriedly turned to Tom and asked him what he thought it best to do . 
Do ! exclaimed the eccentric Mr. Damon , not giving Tom time to reply . 
First come , first served , I suppose is the law of the forest . 
Meanwhile the surprise occasioned by the unexpected meeting of their rivals seemed to have spread something like consternation among the white members of the Beecher party . 
As for the natives they evidently did not care one way or the other . 
Perhaps not , and yet There is no perhaps about it ! said Professor Bumper quickly . 
I know what your object is , as I presume you do mine . 
And , after what I may term your disgraceful and unsportsmanlike conduct toward me and my friends , I prefer not to have anything further to do with you . 
We must meet as strangers hereafter . 
Very well , and Professor Beecher's voice was as cold and uncompromising as was his rival's . 
Let it be as your wish . 
But I must say I don't know what you mean by unsportsmanlike conduct . 
An explanation would be wasted on you , said Professor Bumper stiffly . 
But in order that you may know I fully understand what you did I will say that your efforts to thwart us through your tool Jacinto came to nothing . 
We are here ahead of you . 
Jacinto ! cried Professor Beecher in real or simulated surprise . 
Why , he was not my tool , as you term it . 
Your denial is useless in the light of his confession , asserted Professor Bumper . 
Confession ? Now look here ! exclaimed the older professor , I do not propose to lower myself by quarreling with you . 
I know certainly what you and your party tried to do to prevent us from getting here . 
But we got out of the trap you set for us , and we are on the ground first . 
I shall certainly abide by such conduct as is usual under the circumstances , said Professor Beecher more stiffly than before . 
At the same time I must deny having set a trap . 
And as for Jacinto It will be useless to discuss it further ! broke in Professor Bumper . 
Then no more need be said , retorted the younger man . 
I shall give orders to my friends , as well as to the natives , to keep away from your camp , and I shall expect you to do the same regarding mine . 
Professor Bumper turned and walked defiantly back to his tent . 
Professor Beecher did the same thing . 
Well , he certainly had nerve , to deny , practically , that he had set Jacinto up to do what he did , commented Tom . 
I should say so ! agreed Ned . 
How do you imagine he got here nearly as soon as we did , when he did not start until later ? asked Mr. Damon . 
He did not have the unfortunate experience of being deserted in the jungle , replied Tom . 
He probably had Jacinto , or some of that unprincipled scoundrel's friends , show him a short route to Copan and he came on from there . 
Well , I did hope we might have the ground to ourselves , at least for the preliminary explorations and excavations . 
But it is not to be . 
My rival is here , sighed Professor Bumper . 
Don't let that discourage you ! exclaimed Tom . 
We can fight all the better now the foe is in the open , and we know where he is . 
Yes , Tom Swift , that is true , agreed the scientist . 
I am not going to give up , but I shall have to change my plans a little . 
Perhaps you will come into the tent with me , and he nodded to Tom and Ned . 
I want to talk over certain matters with you and Mr. Damon . 
Pleased to , assented the young inventor , and his financial secretary nodded . 
Now , gentlemen , said the professor , I have called you here to go over my plans more in detail than I have hitherto done , now we are on the ground . 
You know in a general way what I hope to accomplish , but the time has come when I must be specific . 
I refer to the presence of my rival , Professor Beecher . 
I will not dwell now on what he has done . 
It is better to consider what he may do . 
That's right , agreed Ned . 
He may get up in the night , dig up this city and skip with that golden image before we know it . 
No , said Professor Bumper . 
Excavating buried cities in the jungle of Honduras is not as simple as that . 
There is much work to be done . 
But accidents may happen , and in case one should occur to me , and I be unable to prosecute the search , I want one of you to do it . 
For that reason I am going to show you the maps and ancient documents and point out to you where I believe the lost city lies . 
Now , if you will give me your attention , I'll proceed . 
But this is the most valuable of all , he said , as he opened an oiled silk packet . 
And before I show it to you , suppose you two young men take a look outside the tent . 
What for ? asked Mr. Damon . 
To make sure that no emissaries from the Beecher crowd are sneaking around to overhear what we say , was the somewhat bitter answer of the scientist . 
I do not trust him , in spite of his attempted denial . 
Tom and Ned took a quick but thorough observation outside the tent . 
The blackness of the jungle night was in strange contrast to the light they had just left . 
Doesn't seem to be any one around here , remarked Ned , after waiting a minute or two . 
No. All's quiet along the Potomac . 
Those Beecher natives are having some sort of a song fest , though . 
In the distance , and from the direction of their rivals' camp , came the weird chant . 
Well , as long as they stay there we'll be all right , said Tom . 
I'm anxious to hear what the professor has to say . 
Everything's quiet , reported Ned . 
Then give me your attention , begged the scientist . 
Carefully , as though about to exhibit some , precious jewel , he loosened the oiled silk wrappings and showed a large map , on thin but tough paper . 
This is drawn from the old charts , the professor explained . 
I worked on it many months , and it is the only copy in the world . 
If it were to be destroyed I should have to go all the way back to New York to make another copy . 
I have the original there in a safe deposit vault . 
Wouldn't it have been wise to make two copies ? asked Tom . 
It would have only increased the risk . 
With one copy , and that constantly in my possession , I can be sure of my ground . 
That is why I am so careful of this . 
Now I will show you why I believe we are about over the ancient city of Kurzon . 
Over it ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my gunpowder ! What do you mean ? and he looked down at the earthen floor of the tent as though expecting it to open and swallow him . 
I mean that the city , like many others of Central and South America , is buried below the refuse of centuries , went on the professor . 
Very soon , if we are fortunate , we shall be looking on the civilization of hundreds of years ago how long no one knows . 
Considerable excavation has been done in Central America , went on Professor Bumper , and certain ruins have been brought to light . 
Near us are those of Copan , while toward the frontier are those of Quirigua , which are even better preserved than the former . 
We may visit them if we have time . 
Certainly no part of it has seen the light of day for many centuries . 
It shall be our pleasure to uncover it , if possible , and secure the idol of gold . 
How long ago do you think the city was buried ? asked Tom . 
It would be hard to say . 
From the carvings and hieroglyphics I have studied it would seem that the Mayan civilization lasted about five hundred years , and that it began perhaps in the year A. D. five hundred . 
That would mean , said Mr. Damon , that the ancient cities were in ruins , buried , perhaps , long before Columbus discovered the new world . 
Yes , assented the professor . 
Probably Kurzon , which we now seek , was buried deep for nearly five hundred years before Columbus landed at San Salvadore . 
The specimens of writing and architecture heretofore disclosed indicate that . 
But , as a matter of fact , it is very hard to decipher the Mayan pictographs . 
So far , little but the ability to read their calendars and numerical system is possessed by us , though we are gradually making headway . 
Now this is the map of the district , and by the markings you can see where I hope to find what I seek . 
We shall begin digging here , and he made a small mark with a pencil on the map . 
Of course , the professor explained , I may be wrong , and it will take some time to discover the error if we make one . 
When a city is buried thirty or forty feet deep beneath earth and great trees have grown over it , it is not easy to dig down to it . 
How do you ever expect to find it ? asked Ned . 
Well , we will sink shafts here and there . 
And now that I have shown you the map , and explained how valuable it is , I will put it away again . 
We shall begin our excavations in the morning . 
At what point ? asked Tom . 
At a point I shall indicate after a further consultation of the map . 
I must see the configuration of the country by daylight to decide . 
And now let's get some rest . 
We have had a hard day . 
It seems an unkind precaution to take against a fellow scientist , said Professor Bumper , but I can not afford to take chances after what has occurred . 
The others agreed with him , and though standing guard was not pleasant it was done . 
However the night passed without incident , and then came morning and the excitement of getting breakfast , over which the Indians made merry . 
They did not like the cold and darkness , and always welcomed the sun , no matter how hot . 
And now , cried Tom , when the meal was over , let us begin the work that has brought us here . 
Yes , agreed Professor Bumper , I will consult the map , and start the diggers where I think the city lies , far below the surface . 
Now , gentlemen , if you will give me your attention He was seeking through his outer coat pockets , after an ineffectual search in the inner one . 
A strange look came over his face . 
What's the matter ? asked Tom . 
The map the map ! gasped the professor . 
I I'm afraid so , faltered the professor . 
I put it away carefully , but now He ceased speaking to make a further search in all his pockets . 
Maybe you left it in another coat , suggested Ned . 
Or maybe some of the Beecher crowd took it ! snapped Tom . 
CHAPTER XVIII EL TIGRE ! The four men gazed at one another . 
Consternation showed on the face of Professor Bumper , and was reflected , more or less , on the countenances of his companions . 
Are you sure the map is gone ? asked Tom . 
I know how easy it is to mislay anything in a camp of this sort . 
I couldn't at first find my safety razor this morning , and when I did locate it the hoe was in one of my shoes . 
I'm sure a rat or some jungle animal must have dragged it there . 
Now maybe they took your map , Professor . 
That oiled silk in which it was wrapped might have appealed to the taste of a rat or a snake . 
It is no joking matter , said Professor Bumper . 
But I know you appreciate the seriousness of it as much as I do , Tom . 
But I had the map in the pocket of this coat , and now it is gone ! When did you put it there ? asked Ned . 
This morning , just before I came to breakfast . 
Oh , then you have had it since last night ! Tom ejaculated . 
Yes , I slept with it under my clothes that I rolled up for a pillow , and when it was my turn to stand guard I took it with me . 
Then I put it back again and went to sleep . 
When I awoke and dressed I put the packet in my pocket and ate breakfast . 
Both , answered the professor . 
I opened the silk to tie it more smoothly , so it would not be such a lump in my pocket , and I made sure the map was inside . 
Then the whole thing has been taken or you have lost it , suggested Ned . 
I am not in the habit of losing valuable maps , retorted the scientist . 
And the pocket of my coat I had made deep , for the purpose of carrying the long map . 
It could not drop out . 
Well , we mustn't overlook any possible chances , suggested Tom . 
Come on now , we'll search every inch of the ground over which you traveled this morning , Professor . 
It MUST be found , murmured the scientist . 
Without it all our work will go for naught . 
They all went into the tent where the professor and Mr. Damon had slept when they were not on guard . 
The camp was a busy place , with the Indians finishing their morning meal , and getting ready for the work of the day . 
For word had been given out that there would be no more long periods of travel . 
In consequence , efforts were being directed by the head men of the bearers to making a more permanent camp in the wilderness . 
Leaving this busy scene , the four , with solemn faces , proceeded to the tent where it was hoped the map would be found . 
But though they went through everything , and traced and retraced every place the professor could remember having traversed about the canvas shelter , no signs of the important document could be found . 
I don't believe I dropped it out of my pocket , said the scientist , for perhaps the twentieth time . 
Then it was taken , declared Tom . 
That's what I say ! chimed in Ned . 
And by some of Beecher's party ! Easy , my boy , cautioned Mr. Damon . 
We don't want to make accusations we can't prove . 
That is true , agreed Professor Bumper . 
But , though I am sorry to say it of a fellow archaelogist , I can not help thinking Beecher had something to do with the taking of my map . 
But how could any of them get it ? asked Mr. Damon . 
It does seem a mystery how it could have been taken in open daylight , while we were about camp together , said Tom . 
But is the loss such a grave one , Professor Bumper ? Very grave . 
In fact I may say it is impossible to proceed with the excavating without the map . 
Then what are we to do ? asked Ned . 
We must get it back ! declared Tom . 
Yes , agreed the scientist , we can not work without it . 
Suppose he says he hasn't taken it ? asked Tom . 
Well , I'm sure he either took it personally , or one of his party did . 
And yet I can't understand how they could have come here without our seeing them , and the professor shook his head in puzzled despair . 
Look here , Professor ! he cried . 
There is a certain mountain which serves as a landmark and a guide for a starting point . 
I think that is it over there , and the scientist pointed to a distant snow capped peak . 
At least that is the direction given in the old manuscripts . 
So , though we can do little without the map , we might make a start by digging there . 
No , not there ! exclaimed Tom . 
Why not ? Because we don't want to let Beecher's crowd know that we are on the track of the idol of gold . 
But they know anyhow , for they have the map , commented Ned , puzzled by his chum's words . 
Maybe not , said Tom slowly . 
I think this is a time for a big bluff . 
It may work and it may not . 
Beecher's crowd either has the map or they have not . 
If they have it they will lose no time in trying to find the right place to start digging and then they'll begin excavating . 
Very good ! If they do that we have a right to dig near the same place . 
I'm sure they have the map , the professor said . 
But I believe your plan is a good one , Tom . 
Just what do you propose doing ? asked Ned . 
Fooling 'em ! exclaimed Tom quickly . 
We'll dig in some place remote from the spot where the mountain casts its shadow . 
They will think , if they haven't the map , that we are proceeding by it , and they'll dig , too . 
When they find nothing , as will also happen to us , they may go away . 
They will think the map is at fault , perhaps , and not make use of it . 
Then we can get it back . 
Bless my hatband ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I believe you're right , Tom . 
We'll dig in the wrong place to fool 'em . 
But though this false work was prosecuted with vigor for several days , there was a feeling of despair among the Bumper party over the loss of the map . 
If we could only get it back ! exclaimed the professor , again and again . 
Meanwhile the Beecher party seemed inactive . 
True , some members of it did come over to look on from a respectful distance at what the diggers were doing . 
Some of the rival helpers , under the direction of the head of the expedition , also began sinking shafts . 
But they were not in the locality remembered by Professor Bumper as being correct . 
I can't imagine what they're up to , he said . 
If they have my map they would act differently , I should think . 
Whatever they're up to , answered Tom , the time has come when we can dig at the place where we can hope for results . 
And the following day shafts were started in the shadow of the mountain . 
Until some evidence should have been obtained by digging , as to the location beneath the surface of a buried city , there was nothing for the travelers to do but wait . 
Turns were taken in directing the efforts of the diggers , and an occasional inspection was made of the shafts . 
Potsherds and artifacts , was the answer . 
What sort of bugs are they ? asked Ned with a laugh . 
He and Tom were about to go hunting with their electric rifles . 
Artifacts are things made by the Indians or whatever members of the race who built the ancient cities were called such as household articles , vases , ornaments , tools and so on . 
Anything made by artificial means is called an artifact . 
And potsherds are things with those Chinese laundry ticket scratches on them , added Tom . 
Exactly , said the professor , laughing . 
Though some of the strange appearing inscriptions give much valuable information . 
As soon as we find some of them say a broken bit of pottery with hieroglyphics on I will know I am on the right track . 
And while the scientist and Mr. Damon kept watch at the top of the shaft , Tom and Ned went out into the jungle to hunt . 
Surely , was the cautious answer . 
Keep still , and I'll try for a shot . 
Better be quick , advised Ned in a tense voice . 
The chap who did that yelling seems to be in trouble ! And as Ned's voice trailed off into a whisper , again came the cry , this time in frenzied pain . 
El tigre ! El tigre ! Then there was a jumble of words . 
It's over this way ! and this time Ned shouted , seeing no need for low voices since the other was so loud . 
Tom looked to where Ned had parted the bushes alongside a jungle path . 
Directly in front of him and Ned , and not more than a hundred yards away , was a great tawny and spotted jaguar the tigre or tiger of Central America . 
The beast , with lashing tail , stood over an Indian upon whom it seemed to have sprung from some lair , beating the unfortunate man to the ground . 
Nor had he fallen scatheless , for there was blood on the green leaves about him , and it was not the blood of the spotted beast . 
Oh , Tom , can you can you and Ned faltered . 
The young inventor understood the unspoken question . 
I think I can make a shot of it without hitting the man , he answered , never turning his head . 
It's a question , though , if the beast won't claw him in the death struggle . 
It won't last long , however , if the electric bullet goes to the right place , and I've got to take the chance . 
Cautiously Tom brought his weapon to bear . 
Quiet as Ned and he had been after the discovery , the jaguar seemed to feel that something was wrong . 
Intent on his prey , for a time he had stood over it , gloating . 
The Indian , after his first frenzied outburst of fear , now lay quiet , as though fearing to move , moaning in pain . 
He's seen us , whispered Ned . 
And it's a perfect shot . 
Hope I don't miss ! It was not like Tom Swift to miss , nor did he on this occasion . 
There was a slight report from the electric rifle a report not unlike the crackle of the wireless and the powerful projectile sped true to its mark . 
Straight through the throat and chest under the uplifted jaw of the jaguar it went through heart and lungs . 
You did it , Tom ! You did it ! cried Ned , springing up from where he had been kneeling to give his chum a better chance to shoot . 
You did it , and saved the man's life ! And Ned would have rushed out toward the still twitching body . 
Just a minute ! interposed Tom . 
Those beasts sometimes have as many lives as a cat . 
I'll give it one more for luck . 
Another electric projectile through the head of the jaguar produced no further effect than to move the body slightly , and this proved conclusively that there was no life left . 
It was safe to approach , which Tom and Ned did . 
Their first thought , after a glance at the jaguar , was for the Indian . 
It needed but a brief examination to show that he was not badly hurt . 
Fortunately the scratches were on the fleshy parts of the arms and shoulders , where , though painful , they were not necessarily serious . 
But if you hadn't shot just when you did , Tom , it would have been all up with him , commented Ned . 
Oh , well , I guess you'd have hit him if I hadn't , returned the young inventor . 
But let's see what we can do for this chap . 
The man sat up wonderingly hardly able to believe that he had been saved from the dreaded tigre . 
His wounds were bleeding rather freely , and as Tom and Ned carried with them a first aid kit they now brought it into use . 
Blessed if I can tell whether he's one of our Indians or whether he belongs to the Beecher crowd , remarked Tom . 
Tom and Ned knew a little Spanish , and with that , and simple but expressive signs on the part of the Indian , they learned his story . 
These , for some reason , were delayed . 
Delayed because they daren't use the map they stole from us , commented Ned . 
But as he passed through the forest the jaguar had dropped on him , bearing him to earth . 
But you saved my life , Senor , he said to Tom , dropping on one knee and trying to kiss Tom's hand , which our hero avoided . 
And now my life is yours , added the Indian . 
Well , you'd better get home with it and take care of it , said Tom . 
I'll have Professor Bumper come over and dress your scratches in a better and more careful way . 
The bandages we put on are only temporary . 
My wife she make a poultice of leaves they cure me , said the Indian . 
I guess that will be the best way , observed Ned . 
These natives can doctor themselves for some things , better than we can . 
Well , we'll take him home , suggested Tom . 
He might keel over from loss of blood . 
Come on , he added to Tal , indicating his object . 
I hate this business ! complained Tom , after having been knelt to by the Indian's wife and child , who called him the preserver and other endearing titles of the same kind . 
Come on , let's hike back . 
But Indian hospitality , especially after a life has been saved , is not so simple as all that . 
My life my house all that I own is yours , said Tal in deep gratitude . 
Take everything , and he waved his hand to indicate all the possessions in his humble hut . 
Thanks , answered Tom , but I guess you need all you have . 
That's a fine specimen of blow gun though , he added , seeing one hanging on the wall . 
I wouldn't mind having one like that . 
If you get well enough to make me one , Tal , and some arrows to go with it , I'd like it for a curiosity to hang in my room at home . 
The Senor shall have a dozen , promised the Indian . 
Look , Ned , went on Tom , pointing to the native weapon . 
I never saw one just like this . 
They use small arrows or darts , tipped with wild cotton , instead of feathers . 
These the arrows , explained Tal's wife , bringing a bundle from a corner of the one room hut . 
As she held them out her husband gave a cry of fear . 
Poisoned arrows ! Poisoned arrows ! he exclaimed . 
One scratch and the senors are dead men . 
Put them away ! In fear the Indian wife prepared to obey , but as she did so Tom Swift caught sight of the package and uttered a strange cry . 
Thundering hoptoads , Ned ! he exclaimed . 
Undoubtedly it was oiled silk on the outside , and through the almost transparent covering could be seen the small arrows , or darts , used in the blow gun . 
Where did you get that ? asked Tom , pointing to the bundle and gazing sternly at Tal . 
What is the matter , Senor ? asked the Indian in turn . 
Is it that you are afraid of the poisoned arrows ? Be assured they will not harm you unless you are scratched by them . 
Tom and Ned found it difficult to comprehend all the rapid Spanish spoken by their host , but they managed to understand some , and his eloquent gestures made up the rest . 
We're not afraid , Tom said , noting that the oiled skin well covered the dangerous darts . 
But where did you get that ? I picked it up , after another Indian had thrown it away . 
He got it in your camp , Senor . 
I will not lie to you . 
Valdez went to your camp to steal he is a bad Indian and he brought back this wrapping . 
It contained something he thought was gold , but it was not , so he Quick ! Yes ! Tell us ! demanded Tom eagerly . 
Tal do no harm ! No , he did no harm , went on Tom , in a reassuring tone . 
But he can do a whole lot of good if he tells us what became of the map that was in this oiled silk . 
Where is it ? he asked again . 
Valdez burn it up , answered Tal . 
What , burned the professor's map ? cried Ned . 
If that was in this yellow cloth yes , answered the injured man . 
He say to me he is going to your camp to see what he can take . 
How he got this I know not , but he come back one morning with the yellow pack age . 
I see him , but he make me promise not to tell . 
But you save my life I tell you everything . 
That's Professor Bumper , explained Ned . 
How did Valdez get the map out of the professor's coat ? asked Tom . 
Valdez he very much smart . 
When man with no hair on his head take coat off for a minute to eat breakfast Valdez take yellow thing out of pocket . 
The Indian must have sneaked into camp when we were eating , said Tom . 
Those from Beecher's party and our workers look all alike to us . 
We wouldn't know one from the other , and one of our rival's might slip in . 
One evidently did , if this is really the piece of oiled silk that was around the professor's map , said Ned . 
It certainly is the same , declared the young inventor . 
See , there is his name , and he stretched out his hand to point . 
Don't touch ! cried Tal . 
Poisoned arrows snake poison very dead like and quick . 
Don't worry , I won't touch , said Tom grimly . 
Yes , answered Tal , though it is doubtful if he understood all that Tom said , as it was half Spanish and half English . 
But the Indian knew a little English , too . 
Valdez , when he find no gold is very mad . 
Only papers in the yellow silk papers with queer marks on . 
Valdez think it maybe a charm to work evil , so he burn them up all up ! Burned that rare map ! gasped Tom . 
All in fire , went on Tal , indicating by his hands the play of flames . 
Valdez throw away yellow silk , and I take for my arrows so rain not wash off poison . 
I give to you , if you like , with blow gun . 
No , thank you , answered Tom , in disappointed tones . 
The oiled silk is of no use without the map , and that's gone . 
Whew ! but this is tough ! he said to his chum . 
As long as it was only stolen there was a chance to get it back , but if it's burned , the jig is up . 
It looks so , agreed Ned . 
We'd better get back and tell the professor . 
It he can't get along without the map it's time he started a movement toward getting another . 
So it wasn't Beecher , after all , who got it . 
Evidently not , assented Tom . 
But I believe him capable of it . 
You haven't much use for him , remarked Ned . 
Huh ! was all the answer given by his chum . 
But it just happens that it brings bad luck to us . 
It is somewhere under the ground , and he waved to the jungle all about them , pointing earthwards . 
Paper Valdez burn tell of lost city ? asked Tal , his face lighting up . 
But now , of course , we can't tell where to dig for it . 
The Indian turned to his wife and talked rapidly with her in their own dialect . 
She , too , seemed greatly excited , making quick gestures . 
Finally she ran out of the hut . 
Where is she going ? asked Tom suspiciously . 
He know story of buried cities under trees . 
Very old story what you call legend , maybe . 
He tell same as his grandfather told him . 
Goosal come , and you listen . 
Good , Ned ! suddenly cried Tom . 
Maybe , we'll get on the track of lost Kurzon after all , through some ancient Indian legend . 
Maybe we won't need the map ! It hardly seems possible , said Ned slowly . 
What can these Indians know of buried cities that were out of existence before Columbus came here ? Why , they haven't any written history . 
No , and that may be just the reason they are more likely to be right , returned Tom . 
Legends handed down from one grandfather to another go back a good many hundred years . 
If they were written they might be destroyed as the professor's map was . 
Somehow or other , though I can't tell why , I begin to see daylight ahead of us . 
I wish I did , remarked Ned . 
He know old stories legends very old . 
I know what you seek in the buried city , remarked Tal . 
Do you ? cried Tom , wondering if some one had indiscreetly spoken of the idol of gold . 
Yes you want pieces of rock , with strange writings on them , old weapons , broken pots . 
I have helped white men before . 
Yes , those are the things we want , agreed Tom , with a glance at his chum . 
That is some of them . 
But does your wife's grandfather talk our language ? No , but I can tell you what he says . 
By this time the old man , led by Mrs. Tal as the young men called the wife of the Indian they had helped entered the hut . 
He seemed nervous and shy , and glanced from Tom and Ned to his grandson in law , as the latter talked rapidly in the Indian dialect . 
Then Goosal made answer , but what it was all about the boys could not tell . 
Goosal say , translated Tal , that he know a story of a very old city away down under ground . 
Tell us about it ! urged Tom eagerly . 
But a difficulty very soon developed . 
Tal's intentions were good , but he was not equal to the task of translating . 
Nor was the understanding of Tom and Ned of Spanish quite up to the mark . 
Say , this is too much for me ! exclaimed Tom . 
We are losing the most valuable part of this by not understanding what Goosal says , and what Tal translates . 
What can we do ? asked Ned . 
Get the professor here as soon as possible . 
He can manage this dialect , and he'll get the information at first hand . 
If Goosal can tell where to begin excavating for the city he ought to tell the professor , not us . 
That's right , agreed Ned . 
We'll bring the professor here as soon as we can . 
This seemed to suit the Indians , all of whom in the small colony appeared to be very grateful to Tom and Ned for having saved the life of Tal . 
That was a good shot you made when you bowled over the jaguar , said Ned , as the two young explorers started back to their camp . 
Better than I realized , if it leads to the discovery of Kurzon and the idol of gold , remarked Tom . 
And to think we should come across the oiled silk holding the poisoned arrows ! went on Ned . 
That's the strangest part of the whole affair . 
If it hadn't been that you shot the jaguar this never would have come about . 
That Professor Bumper was astonished , and Mr. Damon likewise , when they heard the story of Tom and Ned , is stating it mildly . 
Come on ! exclaimed the scientist , as Tom finished , we must see this Goosal at once . 
If my map is destroyed , and it seems to be , this old Indian may be our only hope . 
Where did he say the buried city was , Tom ? Oh , somewhere in this vicinity , as nearly as I could make out . 
But you'd better talk with him yourself . 
We didn't say anything about the idol of gold . 
It's just as well to let the natives think we are only after ordinary relics . 
Bless my insurance policy ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
It does not seem possible that we are on the right track . 
Well , I think we are , from what little information Goosal gave us , remarked Tom . 
This buried city of his must be a wonderful place . 
It is , if it is what I take it to be , agreed the professor . 
I told you I would bring you to a land of wonders , Tom Swift , and they have hardly begun yet . 
Come , I am anxious to talk to Goosal . 
We'll pretend we are on the right track , and very busy , said Tom . 
Are you glad to know he did not take your map Professor Bumper ? asked Mr. Damon . 
It is hard to believe such things of a fellow scientist . 
If he didn't take it he wanted to , said Tom . 
And he has done , or will do , things as unsportsmanlike . 
Oh , you are hardly fair , perhaps , Tom , commented Ned . 
Um ! was all the answer he received . 
They passed the place where Tom had slain the jaguar , but nothing was left but the bones the ants , vultures and jungle animals having picked them clean in the night . 
But is that all you know about it , Goosal ? asked the savant . 
It is true most of what I have told you was told to me by my father and his father's father . 
But I I myself with these eyes , have looked upon the lost city . 
You have ! cried the professor , this time in English . 
Where ? When ? Take us to it ! How do you get here ? Through the cavern of the dead , was the answer when the questions were modified . 
Bless my diamond ring ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , when Professor Bumper translated the reply . 
What does he mean ? And then , after some talk , this information came out . 
Years before , when Goosal was a young man , he had been taken by his grandfather on a journey through the jungle . 
They stopped one day at the foot of a high mountain , and , clearing away the brush and stones at a certain place , an entrance to a great cavern was revealed . 
This , it appeared , was the Indian burial ground , and had been used for generations . 
Goosal , though in fear and trembling , was lead through it , and came to another cavern , vaster than the first . 
Can you take us to this cavern ? asked the professor . 
I will lead to it those who saved the life of Tal them and their friends . 
I will take you to the lost city ! Good ! cried Mr. Damon , when this had been translated . 
Now let Beecher try to play any more tricks on us ! Ho ! for the cavern and the lost city of Kurzon . 
And the idol of gold , said Tom Swift to himself . 
I hope we can get it ahead of Beecher . 
Perhaps if I can help in that Oh , well , here's hoping , that's all ! and a little smile curved his lips . 
Goosal had said the cavern lay distant more than a two days' journey into the jungle . 
Do you mean to go off quietly ? asked Ned . 
To that end we must keep the Indians digging , though I am convinced now that it is useless . 
Accordingly preparations were made for an expedition into the jungle under the leadership of Goosal . 
One of the most intelligent of the Indians was put in charge of the digging gangs as foreman , and told to keep them at work , and not to let them stray . 
Tolpec , whose brother Tom had tried to save , proved a treasure . 
He agreed to remain behind and look after the interests of his friends , and see that none of their baggage or stores were taken . 
Well , I guess we're as ready as we ever shall be , remarked Tom , as the cavalcade made ready to start . 
Mules carried the supplies that were to be taken into the jungle , and others of the sturdy animals were to be ridden by the travelers . 
The trail was not an easy one , Goosal warned them . 
Tom and his friends found it even worse than they had expected , for all their experience in jungle and mountain traveling . 
In places it was necessary to dismount and lead the mules along , sometimes pushing and dragging them . 
But they kept on with dogged patience , through many hardships . 
To add to their troubles they seemed to have entered the abode of the fiercest mosquitoes encountered since coming to Honduras . 
At times it was necessary to ride along with hats covered with mosquito netting , and hands encased in gloves . 
They had taken plenty of condensed food with them , and they did not suffer in this respect . 
Game , too , was plentiful and the electric rifles of Tom and Ned added to the larder . 
Who's there ? asked the young inventor sharply , as he reached for his electric rifle . 
There was no answer , but a rattling of the pans . 
Speak , or I'll fire ! Tom warned , adding this in such Spanish as he could muster , for he thought it might be one of the Indians . 
No reply came , and then , seeing by the light of the stars a dark form moving in front of the tent occupied by himself and Ned , Tom fired . 
I don't know , Tom answered . 
But I shot something or somebody ! Maybe some of Beecher's crowd , ventured his chum . 
Bruin was quite dead , and as he was in prime condition there was a feast of bear meat at the following dinner . 
The white travelers found it rather too strong for their palates , but the Indians reveled in it . 
Good ! cried Professor Bumper . 
At last we are near the buried city . 
Don't be too sure , advised Mr. Damon , We may be disappointed . 
Though I hope not for your sake , my dear Professor . 
somewhere , is the entrance to the cav ern , said the aged man . 
It was many years ago that I was here many years . 
But it seems as though yesterday . 
Indeed little did change in that land of wonders . 
Only nature caused what alterations there were . 
The hand of man had long been absent . 
Slowly Goosal walked along the rocky trail , on one side a sheer rock , towering a hundred feet or more toward the sky . 
On the other side a deep gash leading to a great fertile valley below . 
Suddenly the old man paused , and looked about him as though uncertain . 
Then , more slowly still , he put out his hand and pulled at some bushes that grew on a ledge of the rock . 
They came away , having no depth of earth , and a small opening was disclosed . 
It is here , said Goosal quietly . 
The entrance to the cavern that leads to the burial place of the dead , and the city that is dead also . 
He stood aside while the others hurried forward . 
It took but a few minutes to prove that he was right at least as to the existence of the cavern for the four men were soon peering into the opening . 
Come on ! cried Tom , impetuously . 
Wait a moment , suggested the professor , Sometimes the air in these places is foul . 
But a torch one of the Indians threw in burned with a steady glow . 
That test was conclusive at least . 
They made ready to enter . 
At first the Indians were afraid to enter , but a word or two from Goosal reassured them , and they followed Professor Bumper , Tom , and the others into the cavern . 
For several hundred feet there was nothing remarkable about the cave . 
Talk about a wonderland ! cried Tom . 
niches that held the countless bones of those who had died many , many years before . 
It was a vast Indian grave . 
Doubtless a wealth of material of historic interest here , said Professor Bumper , flashing his torch on the skeletons . 
Where is the city you spoke of , Goosal ? Farther on , Senor . 
Past the stone graves they went , deeper and deeper into the great cave . 
Their footsteps echoed and re echoed . 
Surely those were lights flickering and moving about , and , yes , there were men carrying them . 
The Bumper party came to a surprised halt . 
Professor Hylop , who was known to Professor Bumper , stepped forward and asked sharply What are you doing here ? I might ask you the same thing , was the retort . 
You might , but you would not be answered , came sharply . 
We have a right here , having discovered this cavern , and we claim it under a concession of the Honduras Government . 
I shall have to ask you to withdraw . 
Do you mean leave here ? asked Mr Damon . 
That is it , exactly . 
We first discovered this cave . 
We have been conducting explorations in it for several days , and we wish no outsiders . 
Are you speaking for Professor Beecher asked Tom . 
But he is here in the cave , and will speak for himself if you desire it . 
But I represent him , and I order you to leave . 
If you do not go peaceably we will use force . 
We have plenty of it , and he glanced back at the Indians grouped behind him scowling savage Indians . 
We have no wish to intrude , observed Professor Bumper , and I fully recognize the right of prior discovery . 
was in this cave many years ago . 
He led us to it . 
Ours is a government concession ! exclaimed Professor Hylop harshly . 
We want no intruders ! Go ! and he pointed toward the direction whence Tom's party had come . 
Drive them out ! he ordered the Indians in Spanish , and with muttered threats the dark skinned men advanced toward Tom and the others . 
You need not use force , said Professor Bumper . 
He and Professor Hylop had quarreled bitterly years before on some scientific matter , and the matter was afterward found to be wrong . 
Perhaps this made him vindictive . 
Tom stepped forward and started to protest , but Professor Bumper interposed . 
I guess there is no help for it but to go . 
It seems to be theirs by right of discovery and government concession , he said , in disappointed tone . 
Come friends and dejectedly they retraced their steps . 
Followed by the threatening Indians , the Bumper party made its way back to the entrance . 
We'll have to get our Indians and drive those fellows out ! declared Tom . 
I'm not going to be beaten this way and by Beecher ! It is galling , declared Professor Bumper . 
Still he has right on his side , and I must give in to priority , as I would expect him to . 
It is the unwritten law . 
Then we've failed ! cried Tom bitterly . 
Not yet , said Professor Bumper . 
If I can not unearth that buried city I may find another in this wonderland . 
I shall not give up . 
Hark ! What's that noise ? asked Tom , as they approached the entrance to the cave . 
Sounds like a great wind blowing , commented Ned . 
As they stood in the entrance they looked out to find a fierce storm raging . 
The wind was sweeping down the rocky trail , the rain was falling in veritable bucketfuls from the overhanging cliff , and deafening thunder and blinding lightning roared and flashed . 
Surely you would not drive us out in this storm , said Professor Bumper to his former rival . 
You can not stay in the cave ! You must get out ! was the answer , as a louder crash of thunder than usual seemed to shake the very mountain . 
CHAPTER XXIII ENTOMBED ALIVE For an instant Tom and his friends paused at the entrance to the wonderful cavern , and looked at the raging storm . 
We can't go out into that blow ! cried Ned . 
It's enough to loosen the very mountains ! Let's stay here and defy them ! murmured Tom . 
If the if what we seek is here we have as good a right to it as they have . 
We must go out , said Professor Bumper simply . 
I recognize the right of my rival to dispossess us . 
He may have the right , but it isn't human , said Mr. Damon . 
Bless my overshoes ! If Beecher himself were here he wouldn't have the heart to send us out in this storm . 
I would not give him the satisfaction of appealing to him , remarked Professor Bumper . 
Come , we will go out . 
We have our ponchos , and we are not fair weather explorers . 
If we can't get to the lost city one way we will another . 
And despite the downpour , the deafening thunder and the lightning that seemed ready to sear one's eyes , he walked out of the cave entrance , followed by Tom and the others . 
Come on ! cried Tom , in a voice he tried to render confident , as they went out into the terrible storm . 
We'll beat 'em yet ! The rain fell harder than ever . 
We must take to the forest ! cried Tom . 
There'll be some shelter there , and I don't like the way the geography of this place is behaving . 
There may be a landslide at any moment . 
As he spoke he motioned upward through the mist of the rain to the sloping side of the mountain towering above them . 
Loose stones were beginning to roll down , accompanied by patches of earth loosened by the water . 
Some of the patches carried with them bunches of grass and small bushes . 
Yes , it will be best to move into the jungle , said the professor . 
Goosal , you had better take the lead . 
It was wonderful to see how well the aged Indian bore up in spite of his years , and walked on ahead . 
They had left their mules tethered some distance back , in a sheltering clump of trees , and they hoped the animals would be safe . 
The guide found a place where they could leave the trail , though going down a dangerous slope , and take to the forest . 
They went on until they were beneath the shelter of the thick jungle growth of trees , which kept off some of the pelting drops . 
This is better ! exclaimed Ned , shaking his poncho and getting rid of some of the water that had settled on it . 
Bless my overcoat ! cried Mr. Damon . 
We seem to have gotten out of the frying pan into the fire ! How ? asked Tom . 
Struck by lightning ! yelled Ned . 
Yes and it may happen to us ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
We were safer from the lightning in the open . 
Maybe Again came an interruption , but this time a different one . 
The very ground beneath their feet seemed to be shaking and trembling . 
What is it ? gasped Ned , while Goosal fell on his knees and began fervently to pray . 
It's an earthquake ! yelled Tom Swift . 
As he spoke there came another sound the sound of a mass of earth in motion . 
It came from the direction of the mountain trail they had just left . 
They looked toward it and their horror stricken eyes saw the whole side of the mountain sliding down . 
Slowly at first the earth slid down , but constantly gathering force and speed . 
In the face of this new disaster the rain seemed to have ceased and the thunder and lightning to be less severe . 
It was as though one force of nature gave way to the other . 
Look ! Look ! gasped Ned . 
In silence , which was broken now only by a low and ominous rumble , more menacing than had been the awful fury of the elements , the travelers looked . 
Suddenly there was a quicker movement of seemingly one whole section of the mountain . 
Great rocks and trees , carried down by the appalling force of the landslide were slipping over the trail , obliterating it as though it had never existed . 
That's the end of them ! exclaimed Tom , as the rumble of the earthquake died away . 
Of Ned stopped , his eyes staring . 
Somewhere , far beyond that mass , was the Beecher party , held prisoners in the cave that formed the entrance to the buried city . 
Tom was the first to come to a realization of what was needed to be done . 
We must help them ! he exclaimed , and it was characteristic of him that he harbored no enmity . 
We must get a force of Indians and dig them out , was the prompt answer . 
At Tom's vigorous words Professor Bumper's forces were energized into action , and he stated Fortunately we have plenty of excavating tools . 
We may be in time to save them . 
We must start the work of rescue at once . 
We must go back to camp and get all the help we can muster . 
It is no use to try to get back to camp to night , said Tom , when the last of the pack and saddle animals had been corralled . 
It is getting late and there is no telling the condition of the trail . 
We must stay here until morning . 
But what about them ? and Mr. Damon nodded in the direction of the entombed ones . 
We can help them best by waiting until the beginning of a new day , said the professor . 
We shall need a large force , and we could not bring it up to night . 
No , we must camp here until morning and then go for help . 
They all decided finally this was best . 
The only danger is that the cave has been crushed in , added Tom but in that event we would be of no service to them anyhow . 
The night seemed very long , and it was a most uncomfortable one , because of the shock and exertions through which the party had passed . 
Added to this was the physical discomfort caused by the storm . 
But in time there was the light in the east that meant morning was at hand , and with it came action . 
My ! exclaimed Tom , as they made their way slowly along , it surely was some storm ! Look at those big trees uprooted over there . 
They're almost as big as the giant redwoods of California , and yet they were bowled over as if they were tenpins . 
I wonder if the wind did it or the earthquake , ventured Mr. Damon . 
No wind could do that , declared Ned . 
It must have been the landslide caused by the earthquake . 
The wind could do it if the ground was made soft by the rain and that was probably what did it , suggested Tom . 
There is no harm in settling the point , commented Professor Bumper . 
It is not far off our trail , and will take only a few minutes to go over to the trees . 
I should like to get some photographs to accompany an article that perhaps I shall write on the effects of sudden and severe tropical storms . 
We will go to look at the overturned trees and then we'll hurry on to camp to get the rescue party . 
The uprooted trees lay on one side of the mountain trail , perhaps a mile from the mouth of the cave which had been covered over , entombing the Beecher party . 
Leaving the mules in charge of one of the Indians , Professor Bumper and his friends , accompanied by Goosal , approached the fallen trees . 
As they neared them they saw that in falling the trees had lifted with their roots a large mass of earth and imbedded rocks that had clung to the twisted and gnarled fibers . 
This mass was as large as a house . 
Look at the hole left when the roots pulled out ! cried Ned . 
Why , it's like the crater of a small volcano ! he added . 
And , as they stood on the edge of it looking curiously at the hole made , the others agreed with Tom's chum . 
It's an underground passage all right , said Professor Bumper eagerly and not a natural one , either . 
That was fashioned by the hand of man , if I am any judge . 
It seems to go right under the mountain , too . 
It seemed to have been tunneled through the earth , the sides being lined by either slabs of stone , or walls made by a sort of concrete . 
But what about the rescue work ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I am not forgetting Professor Beecher and his friends , answered the scientist . 
Perhaps this may be a better means of rescuing them than by digging them out , which will take a week at least , observed Tom . 
This a better way ? asked Ned , pointing to the tunnel . 
That's it , confirmed the savant . 
If you will notice it extends back in the direction of the cave from which we were driven . 
It is my opinion that we were only in one end of that cavern , and this may be the entrance to another end of it . 
It's a chance worth taking , said Mr. Damon . 
Of course it is a chance . 
But then everything connected with this expedition is so one is no worse than another . 
As you say , we may find the entombed men more easily this way than any other . 
I wonder , said Tom slowly , if , by any chance , we shall find , through this passage , the lost city we are looking for . 
And the idol of gold , added Ned . 
Goosal , do you know anything about this ? asked Professor Bumper . 
That settles it ! cried the professor in English , having talked to Goosal in Spanish . 
We'll try this and see where it leads . 
They entered the stone lined passage . 
Well , perhaps we shall soon make a discovery . 
Eagerly and anxiously the little party pressed forward by the light of the pocket electric lamps . 
They were obsessed by two thoughts what they might find and the necessity for aiding in the rescue of their rivals . 
On and on they went , the darkness illuminated only by the torches they carried . 
But they noticed that the air was still fresh , and that a gentle wind blew toward them . 
The passage was undoubtedly artificial , a tunnel made by the hands of men now long crumbled into dust . 
Just how far they went they did not know , but it must have been more than two miles . 
Yet they did not tire , for the way was smooth . 
Suddenly Tom , who , with Professor Bumper , was in the lead , uttered a cry , as he held his torch above his head and flashed it about in a circle . 
We're blocked ! he exclaimed . 
We're up against a stone wall ! It was but too true . 
Confronting them , and extending from side to side across the passage and from roof to floor , was a great rough stone . 
Immense and solid it seemed when they pushed on it in vain . 
Nothing short of dynamite will move that , said Ned in despair . 
This is a blind lead . 
We'll have to go back . 
But there must be something on the other side of that stone , cried Tom . 
See , it is pierced with holes , and through them comes a current of air . 
If we could only move the stone ! I believe it is an ancient door , remarked Professor Bumper . 
Eagerly and frantically they tried to move it by their combined weight . 
The stone did not give the fraction of the breadth of a hair . 
We'll have to go back and get some of your big tunnel blasting powder , Tom , suggested Ned . 
As he spoke old Goosal glided forward . 
He had remained behind them in the passage while they were trying to move the rock . 
Now he said something in Spanish . 
What does he mean ? asked Ned . 
He asks that he be allowed to try , translated Professor Bumper . 
Sometimes , he says , there is a secret way of opening stone doors in these underground caves . 
Goosal seemed to be running his fingers lightly over the outer edge of the door . 
He was muttering to himself in his Indian tongue . 
Suddenly he uttered an exclamation , and , as he did so , there was a noise from the door itself . 
It was a grinding , scraping sound , a rumble as though rocks were being rolled one against the other . 
Then the astonished eyes of the adventurers saw the great stone door revolve on its axis and swing to one side , leaving a passage open through which they could pass . 
Goosal had discovered the hidden mechanism . 
What lay before them ? CHAPTER XXV THE IDOL OF GOLD Forward ! cried Tom Swift . 
Where ? asked Mr Damon , hanging back for an instant . 
Ask Goosal if he knows anything about it , suggested Mr. Damon to the professor . 
Then we're on the right track ! cried Tom . 
If this is the same kind of door , it must lead to the same place . 
Ho for Kurzon and the idol of gold ! As they passed through the stone door , Tom and Professor Bumper tried to get some idea of the mechanism by which it worked . 
But they found this impossible , it being hidden within the stone itself or in the adjoining walls . 
But , in order that it might not close of itself and entomb them , the portal was blocked open with stones found in the passage . 
It's always well to have a line of retreat open , said Tom . 
There's no telling what may lie beyond us . 
For a time there seemed to be nothing more than the same passage along which they had come . 
Then the passage suddenly widened , like the large end of a square funnel . 
Goosal , who had brought with him some of the fiber bark torches , set a bundle of them aflame . 
As they flared up , a wondrous sight was revealed to Tom Swift and his friends . 
A louder voice just then , would have seemed a sacrilege . 
Look ! Is it what we are looking for ? asked Ned in a low voice . 
I believe it is , replied the professor . 
It is the lost city of Kurzon , or one just like it . 
And now if we can find the idol of gold our search will be ended at least the major part of it . 
Where did you expect to find the idol ? asked Tom . 
It should be in the main temple . 
Come , we will walk in the ancient streets streets where no feet but ours have trod in many centuries . 
Come ! In eager silence they pressed on through this newly discovered wonderland . 
For it was a wonderful city , or had been . 
There were rude but beautiful stone buildings . 
There were archways temples public squares and images , not at all beautiful , for they seemed to be of man monsters doubtless ancient gods . 
Of the ancient population there was not a trace left . 
Tom and his friends penetrated some of the houses , but not so much as a bone or a heap of mouldering dust showed where the remains of the people were . 
Either they had fled at the approaching doom of the city and were buried elsewhere , or some strange fire or other force of nature had consumed and obliterated them . 
What a wealth of historic information I shall find here ! murmured Professor Bumper , as he caught sight of many inscriptions in strange characters on the walls and buildings . 
I shall never get to the end of them . 
And then we must see about rescuing your rivals , Professor , put in Tom . 
But fortunately we are on the ground here before them , agreed the professor . 
Undoubtedly it was the chief temple , or place of worship , of the long dead race which the explorers now entered . 
It was a building beautiful in its barbaric style , and yet simple . 
There were massive walls , and a great inner court , at the end of which seemed to be some sort of altar . 
The scientist touched it , tried to raise it and make sure of its solidity and material . 
This is it ! he cried . 
What is it ? asked Tom Swift . 
There was a murmur of voices . 
Indians ! cried Professor Bumper , recognizing the language a mixture of Spanish and Indian . 
The cave was illuminated by the glare of other torches which seemed to rush forward . 
A moment later it was seen that they were being carried by a number of Indians . 
Friends , murmured Goosal , using the Spanish term , Amigos . 
They are our own Indians ! cried Tom Swift . 
I see Tolpec ! and he pointed to the native who had deserted from Jacinto's force to help them . 
How did they get here ? asked Professor Bumper . 
But they became alarmed for the safety of the professor and his party and , at Tolpec's suggestion , set off in search of them . 
The Indians had seen , passing along the trail , the uprooted trees , and had noted the footsteps of the explorers going down to the stone passage . 
It was easy for them to determine that Tom and his friends had gone in , since the marks of their boots were plainly in evidence in the soft soil . 
None of the Indians was as much wrought up over the discovery of Kurzon and the idol as were the white adventurers . 
The gold , of course , meant something to the natives , but they were indifferent to the wonders of the underground city . 
Perhaps they had heard too many legends concerning such things to be impressed . 
That statue is yours all yours , said old Goosal when he had talked with his relatives and friends among the natives . 
They all say what you find you keep , and we will help you keep it . 
That's good , murmured Professor Bumper . 
That settles the last difficulty . 
Except that of getting the idol out , said Mr. Damon . 
Oh , we'll accomplish that ! cried Tom . 
I can hardly believe my good luck , declared Professor Bumper . 
I shall write a whole book on this idol alone and then Once more came an interruption . 
This time it was from another direction , but it was of the same character an approaching band of torch bearers . 
They were Indians , too , but leading them were a number of whites . 
And at their head was no less personage than Professor Beecher himself . 
For a moment , as the three parties stood together in the ancient temple , in the glare of many torches , no one spoke . 
Then Professor Bumper found his voice . 
We are glad to see you , he said to his rival . 
That is glad to see you alive , for we saw the landslide bury you . 
And we were coming to dig you out . 
We thought this cave the cave of the buried city would lead us to you easier than by digging through the slide . 
We have just discovered this idol , and he put his hand on the grim golden image . 
Oh , you have discovered it , have you ? asked Professor Beecher , and his voice was bitter . 
Yes , not ten minutes ago . 
The natives have kindly acknowledged my right to it under the law of priority . 
I am sorry but With a look of disgust and chagrined disappointment on his face , Professor Beecher turned to the other scientists and said Let us go . 
He has what I came after . 
Well , it is the fortune of war and discovery , put in Mr. Hardy , one of the party who seemed the least ill natured . 
Your luck might have been ours , Professor Bumper . 
It was good of you to think of us . 
But we got out the way we came in . 
We did not enter the tunnel as you did , but came in through another entrance which was not closed by the landslide . 
Then we made a turn through a gateway in a tunnel connecting with ours a gateway which seems to have been opened by the earthquake and we came here , just now . 
Too late , I see , to claim the discovery of the idol of gold , went on Mr. Hardy . 
But I trust you will be generous , and allow us to make observations of the buildings and other relics . 
As much as you please , and with the greatest pleasure in the world , was the prompt answer of Professor Bumper . 
All I lay sole claim to is the golden idol . 
You are at liberty to take whatever else you find in Kurzon and to make what observations you like . 
That is generous of you , and quite in contrast to er to the conduct of our leader . 
I trust he may awaken to a sense of the injustice he did you . 
But Professor Beecher was not there to hear this . 
He had stalked away in anger . 
Then he continued That story about a government concession was all a fake , Professor , else he'd have put up a fight now . 
But their adventures were not over by any means , though there is not room in this volume to record them . 
Suffice it to say that means were at once taken to get the golden image out of the cave of the ancient city . 
Finally it was safely taken out of the cave , and along the stone passage to the opening formed by the overthrown trees , and thence on to camp . 
And at the camp a surprise awaited Tom . 
Some long delayed mail had been forwarded from the nearest place of civilization and there were letters for all , including several for our hero . 
One in particular he picked out first and read eagerly . 
Well , is every little thing all right , Tom ? asked Ned , as he saw a cheerful grin spread itself over his chum's face . 
I should say it is , and then some ! Look here , Ned . 
This is a letter from I know . 
How'd you guess ? Oh , I'm a mind reader . 
Huh ! Well , you know she was away when I went to call to say good bye , and I was a little afraid Beecher had got an inside edge on me . 
Had he ? No , but he tried hard enough . 
He went to see Mary in Fayetteville , just as you heard , be fore he came on to join his party , but he didn't pay much of a visit to her . 
I'm glad ! They shook hands . 
Well , what's the matter ? Didn't you read all of her letter ? asked Ned when he saw his chum once more perusing the epistle . 
No. There's a postscript here . 
Sorry I couldn't see you before you left . 
With the idol of gold safe in their possession , Professor Bumper's party could devote their time to making other explorations in the buried city . 
Professor Beecher , young and foolish , would not consent to delve into the riches of the ancient city , being too much chagrined over the loss of the idol . 
It seems he had really promised to give a part of it to Mary Nestor . 
But he never got the chance . 
His colleagues , after their first disappointment at being beaten , joined forces with Professor Bumper in exploring the old city , and made many valuable discoveries . 
In one point Professor Bumper had done his rival an injustice . 
That was in thinking Professor Beecher was responsible for the treachery of Jacinto . 
That was due to the plotter's own work . 
In another point it was demonstrated that the old documents were at fault . 
This was in reference to the golden idol having been overthrown and another set up in its place , an act which had caused the destruction of Kurzon . 
It is true that the city was destroyed , or rather , buried , but this catastrophe was probably brought about by an earthquake . 
Perhaps an effort had been made , just before the burying of the city , to change idols and the system of worship , but Quitzel seemed to have held his own . 
The old manuscripts were not very reliable , it was found , except in general . 
Yes , luck seems to favor you , replied Ned . 
You've had a hand in the discovery of the idol of gold , and Yes . 
And I discovered something else I wasn't quite sure of , interrupted Tom , as he felt to make sure he had a certain letter safe in his pocket . 
It was several weeks later that the explorations of Kurzon came to an end a temporary end , for the rainy season set in , when the tropics are unsuitable for white men . 
Tom , Professor Bumper , Ned and Mr. Damon set sail for the United States , the valuable idol of gold safe on board . 
And there , with their vessel plowing the blue waters of the Caribbean Sea , we will take leave of Tom Swift and his friends . 
