Proofed against hardcopy , Dianne Bean Not related . 
You can speak of them as being of this sort of people or that . 
But there is also another kind of life that is not so much living as a miscellaneous tasting of life . 
That has been my lot , and that is what has set me at last writing something in the nature of a novel . 
I have got an unusual series of impressions that I want very urgently to tell . 
I have seen life at very different levels , and at all these levels I have seen it with a sort of intimacy and in good faith . 
I have been a native in many social countries . 
by the daughter of a gasworks clerk and to go to my other extreme I was once oh , glittering days ! an item in the house party of a countess . 
She was , I admit , a countess with a financial aspect , but still , you know , a countess . 
I've seen these people at various angles . 
At the dinner table I've met not simply the titled but the great . 
Yes , I've seen a curious variety of people and ways of living altogether . 
Odd people they all are great and small , very much alike at bottom and curiously different on their surfaces . 
I wish I had ranged just a little further both up and down , seeing I have ranged so far . 
Royalty must be worth knowing and very great fun . 
, in the summertime , with a perambulator , lavender to sell , sun brown children , a smell , and ambiguous bundles that fire the imagination . 
Navvies , farm labourers , sailormen and stokers , all such as sit in beer houses , are beyond me also , and I suppose must remain so now for ever . 
I'm sorry I haven't done the whole lot though . 
You will ask by what merit I achieved this remarkable social range , this extensive cross section of the British social organism . 
It was the Accident of Birth . 
It always is in England . 
Indeed , if I may make the remark so cosmic , everything is . 
But that is by the way . 
Astraddle on Tono Bungay , he flashed athwart the empty heavens like a comet rather , like a stupendous rocket ! and overawed investors spoke of his star . 
At his zenith he burst into a cloud of the most magnificent promotions . 
What a time that was ! The Napoleon of domestic conveniences ! I was his nephew , his peculiar and intimate nephew . 
I was hanging on to his coat tails all the way through . 
I made pills with him in the chemist's shop at Wimblehurst before he began . 
It was more , you know , than a figurative soar . 
The zenith of that career was surely our flight across the channel in the Lord Roberts B. . 
I warn you this book is going to be something of an agglomeration . 
It lit some of them up , I can assure you ! Indeed , I want to get in all sorts of things . 
My ideas of a novel all through are comprehensive rather than austere . 
II I write that much and look at it , and wonder whether , after all , this is any fair statement of what I am attempting in this book . 
I suppose what I'm really trying to render is nothing more nor less than Life as one man has found it . 
I've read an average share of novels and made some starts before this beginning , and I've found the restraints and rules of the art impossible for me . 
I like to write , I am keenly interested in writing , but it is not my technique . 
I must sprawl and flounder , comment and theorise , if I am to get the thing out I have in mind . 
And it isn't a constructed tale I have to tell , but unmanageable realities . 
It involves three separate feminine persons . 
It's all mixed up with the other things . 
I believed that the Bladesover system was a little working model and not so very little either of the whole world . 
Let me try and give you the effect of it . 
A semi circular screen of great beeches masks the church and village , which cluster picturesquely about the high road along the skirts of the great park . 
Northward , at the remotest corner of that enclosure , is a second dependent village , Ropedean , less fortunate in its greater distance and also on account of a rector . 
So that Ropedean was in the shadows through all that youthful time . 
But once that scepticism had awakened it took me fast and far . 
But of that in its place . 
About us were other villages and great estates , and from house to house , interlacing , correlated , the Gentry , the fine Olympians , came and went . 
I thought this was the order of the whole world . 
It seemed to be in the divine order . 
There are many people in England to day upon whom it has not yet dawned . 
There are times when I doubt whether any but a very inconsiderable minority of English people realise how extensively this ostensible order has even now passed away . 
It is like an early day in a fine October . 
The hand of change rests on it all , unfelt , unseen resting for awhile , as it were half reluctantly , before it grips and ends the thing for ever . 
One frost and the whole face of things will be bare , links snap , patience end , our fine foliage of pretences lie glowing in the mire . 
For that we have still to wait a little while . 
The ideas of democracy , of equality , and above all of promiscuous fraternity have certainly never really entered into the English mind . 
But what IS coming into it ? All this book , I hope , will bear a little on that . 
Our people never formulates it keeps words for jests and ironies . 
In the meanwhile the old shapes , the old attitudes remain , subtly changed and changing still , sheltering strange tenants . 
It was curious to notice then the little differences that had come to things with this substitution . 
To borrow an image from my mineralogical days , these Jews were not so much a new British gentry as pseudomorphous after the gentry . 
They are a very clever people , the Jews , but not clever enough to suppress their cleverness . 
I wished I could have gone downstairs to savour the tone of the pantry . 
It would have been very different I know . 
But the people in the villages , so far as I could detect , saw no difference in their world . 
Two little girls bobbed and an old labourer touched his hat convulsively as I walked through the village . 
He still thought he knew his place and mine . 
In that English countryside of my boyhood every human being had a place . 
It belonged to you from your birth like the colour of your eyes , it was inextricably your destiny . 
When I was a boy I used always to think of these two poor old creatures as superior beings living , like God , somewhere through the ceiling . 
Occasionally they bumped about a bit and one even heard them overhead , which gave them a greater effect of reality without mitigating their vertical predominance . 
Sometimes too I saw them . 
I hid or fled in pious horror , but I was upon due occasion taken into the Presence by request . 
Miss Somerville hovered behind , a paler thing of broken lavender and white and black , with screwed up , sandy lashed eyes . 
After my fight with young Garvell I was of course banished , and I never saw those poor old painted goddesses again . 
I gathered that none of the company were really Lady Drew's equals , they were greater and lesser after the manner of all things in our world . 
Afterwards , Rabbits , the butler , came into my mother's room downstairs , red with indignation and with tears in his eyes . 
Look at that ! gasped Rabbits . 
My mother was speechless with horror . 
On the lowest fringe of these real Olympians hung the vicarage people , and next to them came those ambiguous beings who are neither quality nor subjects . 
The vicarage people certainly hold a place by themselves in the typical English scheme nothing is more remarkable than the progress the Church has made socially in the last two hundred years . 
In the early eighteenth century the vicar was rather under than over the house steward , and was deemed a fitting match for the housekeeper or any not too morally discredited discard . 
The eighteenth century literature is full of his complaints that he might not remain at table to share the pie . 
He rose above these indignities because of the abundance of younger sons . 
When I meet the large assumptions of the contemporary cleric , I am apt to think of these things . 
It is curious to note that to day that down trodden , organ playing creature , the Church of England village Schoolmaster , holds much the same position as the seventeenth century parson . 
the village shopkeeper's eldest son , the first footman , younger sons of the village shopkeeper , his first assistant , and so forth . 
Of course their own ranks and places came by implication to these people , and it was with the ranks and places of the Olympians that the talk mainly concerned itself . 
Subtle points were put to her . 
She had much exercise in placing people's servants about her tea table , where the etiquette was very strict . 
I wonder sometimes if the etiquette of housekeepers' rooms is as strict to day , and what my mother would have made of a chauffeur . 
Bladesover is , I am convinced , the clue to almost all that is distinctively British and perplexing to the foreign inquirer in England and the English speaking peoples . 
Everybody who is not actually in the shadow of a Bladesover is as it were perpetually seeking after lost orientations . 
We have never broken with our tradition , never even symbolically hewed it to pieces , as the French did in quivering fact in the Terror . 
But all the organizing ideas have slackened , the old habitual bonds have relaxed or altogether come undone . 
And America too , is , as it were , a detached , outlying part of that estate which has expanded in queer ways . 
George Washington , Esquire , was of the gentlefolk , and he came near being a King . 
It was Plutarch , you know , and nothing intrinsically American that prevented George Washington being a King . 
IV I hated teatime in the housekeeper's room more than anything else at Bladesover . 
And more particularly I hated it when Mrs. Mackridge and Mrs. Booch and Mrs. Latude Fernay were staying in the house . 
They were , all three of them , pensioned off servants . 
Old friends of Lady Drew's had rewarded them posthumously for a prolonged devotion to their minor comforts , and Mrs. Booch was also trustee for a favourite Skye terrier . 
Every year Lady Drew gave them an invitation a reward and encouragement of virtue with especial reference to my mother and Miss Fison , the maid . 
They sat about in black and shiny and flouncey clothing adorned with gimp and beads , eating great quantities of cake , drinking much tea in a stately manner and reverberating remarks . 
I remember these women as immense . 
No doubt they were of negotiable size , but I was only a very little chap and they have assumed nightmare proportions in my mind . 
They loomed , they bulged , they impended . 
Mrs. Mackridge was large and dark there was a marvel about her head , inasmuch as she was bald . 
She wore a dignified cap , and in front of that upon her brow , hair was PAINTED . 
I have never seen the like since . 
Lady Impey had been of the Juno type , haughty , unapproachable , given to irony and a caustic wit . 
Mrs. Mackridge had no wit , but she had acquired the caustic voice and gestures along with the old satins and trimmings of the great lady . 
She also had a way of saying Indade ! with a droop of the eyelids . 
Mrs. Latude Fernay has left , oddly enough , no memory at all except her name and the effect of a green grey silk dress , all set with gold and blue buttons . 
I fancy she was a large blonde . 
Then there was Miss Fison , the maid who served both Lady Drew and Miss Somerville , and at the end of the table opposite my mother , sat Rabbits the butler . 
Still , he was large , with side whiskers , even if his clean shaven mouth was weak and little . 
Tea lasted for nearly three quarters of an hour , and I sat it out perforce and day after day the talk was exactly the same . 
Sugar , Mrs. Mackridge ? my mother used to ask . 
Sugar , Mrs. Latude Fernay ? The word sugar would stir the mind of Mrs. Mackridge . 
They say , she would begin , issuing her proclamation at least half her sentences began they say sugar is fatt an ing , nowadays . 
Many of the best people do not take it at all . 
Not with their tea , ma'am , said Rabbits intelligently . 
Not with anything , said Mrs. Mackridge , with an air of crushing repartee , and drank . 
What won't they say next ? said Miss Fison . 
They do say such things ! said Mrs. Booch . 
They say , said Mrs. Mackridge , inflexibly , the doctors are not recomm an ding it now . 
My Mother No , ma'am ? Mrs. Mackridge No , ma'am . 
Then , to the table at large Poor Sir Roderick , before he died , consumed great quan ta ties of sugar . 
I have sometimes fancied it may have hastened his end . 
This ended the first skirmish . 
A certain gloom of manner and a pause was considered due to the sacred memory of Sir Roderick . 
George , said my mother , don't kick the chair ! Then , perhaps , Mrs. Booch would produce a favourite piece from her repertoire . 
A brisk discussion of how long we were to the longest or shortest day would ensue , and die away at last exhausted . 
Mrs. Mackridge , perhaps , would reopen . 
She had many intelligent habits among others she read the paper The Morning Post . 
The other ladies would at times tackle that sheet , but only to read the births , marriages , and deaths on the front page . 
It was , of course , the old Morning Post that cost threepence , not the brisk coruscating young thing of to day . 
They say , she would open , that Lord Tweedums is to go to Canada . 
The same , ma'am , said Mrs. Mackridge . 
They say he was extremelay popular in New South Wales . 
They looked up to him greatlay . 
I knew him , ma'am , as a young man . 
A very nice pleasant young fella . 
Haw ! said Mrs. Mackridge , scornfully , so am tawled . 
'E came to Templemorton after 'e came back , and I remember them talking 'im over after 'e'd gone again . 
Haw ? said Mrs. Mackridge , interrogatively . 
'Is fuss was quotin' poetry , ma'am . 
Every one I 'eard speak , agreed it was takless of 'im . 
She became aware of my doubts again , and added predominantly , It has always struck me that that was a Singularly True Remark . 
I resolved that if ever I found this polypus of Tact growing up in my soul , I would tear it out by the roots , throw it forth and stamp on it . 
They're queer people colonials , said Rabbits , very queer . 
When I was at Templemorton I see something of 'em . 
Queer fellows , some of 'em . 
Very respectful of course , free with their money in a spasammy sort of way , but Some of 'em , I must confess , make me nervous . 
They have an eye on you . 
They watch you as you wait . 
They let themselves appear to be lookin' at you . 
My mother said nothing in that discussion . 
The word colonies always upset her . 
She did not want to rediscover my father at all . 
It is curious that when I was a little listening boy I had such an idea of our colonies that I jeered in my heart at Mrs. Mackridge's colonial ascendancy . 
These brave emancipated sunburnt English of the open , I thought , suffer these aristocratic invaders as a quaint anachronism , but as for being gratified ! I don't jeer now . 
A certain innate scepticism , I think , explains it and a certain inaptitude for sympathetic assimilation . 
My father , I believe , was a sceptic my mother was certainly a hard woman . 
I was an only child , and to this day I do not know whether my father is living or dead . 
He fled my mother's virtues before my distincter memories began . 
He left no traces in his flight , and she , in her indignation , destroyed every vestige that she could of him . 
I suppose I must inherit something of the moral stupidity that would enable her to make a holocaust of every little personal thing she had of him . 
There must have been presents made by him as a lover , for example books with kindly inscriptions , letters perhaps , a flattened flower , a ring , or such like gage . 
She kept her wedding ring , of course , but all the others she destroyed . 
You must not think I was always at Bladesover even in my holidays . 
But such occasions were rare , and I suppose that between ten and fourteen I averaged fifty days a year at Bladesover . 
Don't imagine I deny that was a fine thing for me . 
Bladesover , in absorbing the whole countryside , had not altogether missed greatness . 
The Bladesover system has at least done one good thing for England , it has abolished the peasant habit of mind . 
If many of us still live and breathe pantry and housekeeper's room , we are quit of the dream of living by economising parasitically on hens and pigs . 
It was still a park of deer . 
There were corners that gave a gleam of meaning to the word forest , glimpses of unstudied natural splendour . 
And in the house there were books . 
There was also a broad eighteenth century atlas with huge wandering maps that instructed me mightily . 
It had splendid adornments about each map title Holland showed a fisherman and his boat Russia a Cossack Japan , remarkable people attired in pagodas I say it deliberately , pagodas . 
So I read and understood the good sound rhetoric of Tom Paine's Rights of Man , and his Common Sense , excellent books , once praised by bishops and since sedulously lied about . 
Gulliver was there unexpurgated , strong meat for a boy perhaps but not too strong I hold I have never regretted that I escaped niceness in these affairs . 
The satire of Traldragdubh made my blood boil as it was meant to do , but I hated Swift for the Houyhnhnms and never quite liked a horse afterwards . 
These readings whetted my taste for more , and surreptitiously I raided the bookcases in the big saloon . 
I got through quite a number of books before my sacrilegious temerity was discovered by Ann , the old head housemaid . 
That kicking affair ! When everybody HAD to kick ! The thought of Vathek always brings back with it my boyish memory of the big saloon at Bladesover . 
above , its completely white shutters folding into the deep thickness of the wall . 
Somewhere in this wilderness one came , I remember , upon a big harp beside a lyre shaped music stand , and a grand piano . 
The book borrowing raid was one of extraordinary dash and danger . 
One came down the main service stairs that was legal , and illegality began in a little landing when , very cautiously , one went through a red baize door . 
A little passage led to the hall , and here one reconnoitered for Ann , the old head housemaid the younger housemaids were friendly and did not count . 
A beast of an oscillating Chinaman in china , as large as life , grimaced and quivered to one's lightest steps . 
VI The school I went to was the sort of school the Bladesover system permitted . 
The building was a dingy yellow brick residence outside the village , with the schoolroom as an outbuilding of lath and plaster . 
We had one inestimable privilege at that school , and that was spiritual neglect . 
On our half holidays we were allowed the unusual freedom of rambling in twos and threes wide and far about the land , talking experimentally , dreaming wildly . 
We had our days of adventure , but they were natural accidents , our own adventures . 
Young Roots from Highbury came back with a revolver and cartridges , and we went off six strong to live a free wild life one holiday afternoon . 
A day or so after we got in again , and ignoring a certain fouling and rusting of the barrel , tried for a rabbit at three hundred yards . 
I got it out of the Bladesover saloon . 
So we have burst at times , weeping and rejoicing , upon startled wayfarers . 
Usually I took the part of that distinguished general Xenophen and please note the quantity of the o . 
The little splash into Latin made during my days as a chemist washed off nothing of the habit . 
Well , if I met those great gentlemen of the past with their accents carelessly adjusted I did at least meet them alive , as an equal , and in a living tongue . 
Altogether my school might easily have been worse for me , and among other good things it gave me a friend who has lasted my life out . 
This was Ewart , who is now a monumental artist at Woking , after many vicissitudes . 
Surely no boy ever played the fool as Bob Ewart used to play it , no boy had a readier knack of mantling the world with wonder . 
Commonness vanished before Ewart , at his expository touch all things became memorable and rare . 
From him I first heard tell of love , but only after its barbs were already sticking in my heart . 
I won his heart by a version of Vathek , and after that we were inseparable yarning friends . 
We merged our intellectual stock so completely that I wonder sometimes how much I did not become Ewart , how much Ewart is not vicariously and derivatively me . 
VII And then when I had newly passed my fourteenth birthday , came my tragic disgrace . 
It was in my midsummer holidays that the thing happened , and it was through the Honourable Beatrice Normandy . 
She had come into my life , as they say , before I was twelve . 
She descended unexpectedly into a peaceful interlude that followed the annual going of those Three Great Women . 
She came into the old nursery upstairs , and every day she had tea with us in the housekeeper's room . 
She was eight , and she came with a nurse called Nannie and to begin with , I did not like her at all . 
Eggs at unusual times , the reboiling of milk , the rejection of an excellent milk pudding not negotiated respectfully but dictated as of right . 
Nannie was a dark , longfeatured , taciturn woman in a grey dress she had a furtive inflexibility of manner that finally dismayed and crushed and overcame . 
She conveyed she was under orders like a Greek tragedy . 
Finally they were to pension her , and she would die the hated treasure of a boarding house . 
She was sexless , her personal pride was all transferred , she mothered another woman's child with a hard , joyless devotion that was at least entirely compatible with a stoical separation . 
She treated us all as things that counted for nothing save to fetch and carry for her charge . 
But the Honourable Beatrice could condescend . 
The queer chances of later years come between me and a distinctly separated memory of that childish face . 
And from the very outset , after a most cursory attention to Rabbits , she decided that the only really interesting thing at the tea table was myself . 
Nannie , she said , pointing , and Nannie left a question of my mother's disregarded to attend to her is he a servant boy ? S s sh , said Nannie . 
Is he a servant boy ? repeated Beatrice . 
He's a schoolboy , said my mother . 
Then may I talk to him , Nannie ? Nannie surveyed me with brutal inhumanity . 
You mustn't talk too much , she said to her charge , and cut cake into fingers for her . 
No , she added decisively , as Beatrice made to speak . 
Her eyes explored me with unjustifiable hostility . 
He's got dirty hands , she said , stabbing at the forbidden fruit . 
And there's a fray to his collar . 
Then she gave herself up to cake with an appearance of entire forgetfulness of me that filled me with hate and a passionate desire to compel her to admire me . 
And the next day before tea , I did for the first time in my life , freely , without command or any compulsion , wash my hands . 
So our acquaintance began , and presently was deepened by a whim of hers . 
Nannie came downstairs and borrowed me in a careworn manner and I was handed over to the little creature as if I was some large variety of kitten . 
And Nannie was amazed to find the afternoon slip cheerfully and rapidly away . 
She praised my manners to Lady Drew and to my mother , who said she was glad to hear well of me , and after that I played with Beatrice several times . 
So I had my first intimation of how industrialism must live in a landlord's land . 
I spent some hours , too , in the streets that give upon the river , drawn by the spell of the sea . 
But I saw barges and ships stripped of magic and mostly devoted to cement , ice , timber , and coal . 
The sailors looked to me gross and slovenly men , and the shipping struck me as clumsy , ugly , old , and dirty . 
I discovered that most sails don't fit the ships that hoist them , and that there may be as pitiful and squalid a display of poverty with a vessel as with a man . 
Among other things it obviously wasted and deteriorated the coal . 
And I had imagined great things of the sea ! Well , anyhow , for a time that vocation was stilled . 
But such impressions came into my leisure , and of that I had no excess . 
Most of my time was spent doing things for Uncle Frapp , and my evenings and nights perforce in the company of the two eldest of my cousins . 
If I met him now I should think him a pitiful little creature and be extremely sorry for him . 
Then I felt only a wondering aversion . 
He sniffed horribly , he was tired out by a couple of miles of loafing , he never started any conversation , and he seemed to prefer his own company to mine . 
His mother , poor woman , said he was the thoughtful one . 
Serious trouble came suddenly out of a conversation we held in bed one night . 
Some particularly pious phrase of my elder cousin's irritated me extremely , and I avowed outright my entire disbelief in the whole scheme of revealed religion . 
I had never said a word about my doubts to any one before , except to Ewart who had first evolved them . 
I had never settled my doubts until at this moment when I spoke . 
But it came to me then that the whole scheme of salvation of the Frappes was not simply doubtful , but impossible . 
I fired this discovery out into the darkness with the greatest promptitude . 
My abrupt denials certainly scared my cousin amazingly . 
At first they could not understand what I was saying , and when they did I fully believe they expected an instant answer in thunderbolts and flames . 
They gave me more room in the bed forthwith , and then the elder sat up and expressed his sense of my awfulness . 
No God would be such a fool as that . 
My elder cousin cried aloud in horror , and the younger lay scared , but listening . 
That I found trying , but I held out valiantly . 
Forgive him , said my cousin , he knows not what he sayeth . 
You can pray if you like , I said , but if you're going to cheek me in your prayers I draw the line . 
This was quite outside all my codes . 
Uncle Nicodemus sprang it upon me at the midday meal . 
You been sayin' queer things , George , he said abruptly . 
You better mind what you're saying . 
What did he say , father ? said Mrs. Frapp . 
Things I couldn't' repeat , said he . 
What things ? I asked hotly . 
Ask 'IM , said my uncle , pointing with his knife to his informant , and making me realise the nature of my offence . 
My aunt looked at the witness . 
Not ? she framed a question . 
Wuss , said my uncle . 
My aunt couldn't touch another mouthful . 
I was already a little troubled in my conscience by my daring , and now I began to feel the black enormity of the course upon which I had embarked . 
I was only talking sense , I said . 
I had a still more dreadful moment when presently I met my cousin in the brick alley behind the yard , that led back to his grocer's shop . 
You sneak ! I said , and smacked his face hard forthwith . 
Now then , said I. He started back , astonished and alarmed . 
His eyes met mine , and I saw a sudden gleam of resolution . 
He turned his other cheek to me . 
'It 'it , he said . 
I felt I had never encountered a more detestable way of evading a licking . 
I shoved him against the wall and left him there , forgiving me , and went back into the house . 
You better not speak to your cousins , George , said my aunt , till you're in a better state of mind . 
I became an outcast forthwith . 
At supper that night a gloomy silence was broken by my cousin saying 'E 'it me for telling you , and I turned the other cheek , muvver . 
'E's got the evil one be'ind 'im now , a ridin' on 'is back , said my aunt , to the grave discomfort of the eldest girl , who sat beside me . 
After supper my uncle , in a few ill chosen words , prayed me to repent before I slept . 
Suppose you was took in your sleep , George , he said where'd you be then ? You jest think of that me boy . 
By this time I was thoroughly miserable and frightened , and this suggestion unnerved me dreadfully but I kept up an impenitent front . 
To wake in 'ell , said Uncle Nicodemus , in gentle tones . 
It might move you , he said . 
I was awake longest that night . 
My cousins slept , the sleep of faith on either side of me . 
I decided I would whisper my prayers , and stopped midway because I was ashamed , and perhaps also because I had an idea one didn't square God like that . 
No , I said , with a sudden confidence , damn me if you're coward enough . 
I slept not only through that night , but for all my nights since then . 
So far as any fear of Divine injustice goes , I sleep soundly , and shall , I know , to the end of things . 
That declaration was an epoch in my spiritual life . 
II But I didn't expect to have the whole meeting on Sunday turned on to me . 
I see again the old Welsh milkman wrestling with me , they all wrestled with me , by prayer or exhortation . 
And I was holding out stoutly , though convinced now by the contagion of their universal conviction that by doing so I was certainly and hopelessly damned . 
I felt that they were right , that God was probably like them , and that on the whole it didn't matter . 
And to simplify the business thoroughly I had declared I didn't believe anything at all . 
They confuted me by texts from Scripture which I now perceive was an illegitimate method of reply . 
When I got home , still impenitent and eternally lost and secretly very lonely and miserable and alarmed , Uncle Nicodemus docked my Sunday pudding . 
One person only spoke to me like a human being on that day of wrath , and that was the younger Frapp . 
He came up to me in the afternoon while I was confined upstairs with a Bible and my own thoughts . 
'Ello , he said , and fretted about . 
D'you mean to say there isn't no one , he said , funking the word . 
No one ? No one watching yer always . 
Why should there be ? I asked . 
You can't 'elp thoughts , said my cousin , anyhow . 
You mean He stopped hovering . 
I s'pose I oughtn't to be talking to you . 
He hesitated and flitted away with a guilty back glance over his shoulder . 
The following week made life quite intolerable for me these people forced me at last into an Atheism that terrified me . 
When I learnt that next Sunday the wrestling was to be resumed , my courage failed me altogether . 
I happened upon a map of Kent in a stationer's window on Saturday , and that set me thinking of one form of release . 
III I remember something , but not so much of it as I should like to recall , of my long tramp to Bladesover House . 
The distance from Chatham is almost exactly seventeen miles , and it took me until nearly one . 
It was very interesting and I do not think I was very fatigued , though I got rather pinched by one boot . 
And out upon it stood ships , sailing ships and a steamer or so , going up to London or down out into the great seas of the world . 
I stood for a long time watching these and thinking whether after all I should not have done better to have run away to sea . 
The nearer I drew to Bladesover , the more doubtful I grew of the duality of my reception , and the more I regretted that alternative . 
I suppose it was the dirty clumsiness of the shipping I had seen nearly , that put me out of mind of that . 
I took a short cut through the Warren across the corner of the main park to intercept the people from the church . 
This place among other advantages eliminated any chance of seeing Lady Drew , who would drive round by the carriage road . 
Standing up to waylay in this fashion I had a queer feeling of brigandage , as though I was some intrusive sort of bandit among these orderly things . 
It is the first time I remember having that outlaw feeling distinctly , a feeling that has played a large part in my subsequent life . 
I felt there existed no place for me that I had to drive myself in . 
My boyish mind suggested the adoption of a playful form of appearance . 
Coo ee , mother said I , coming out against the sky , Coo ee ! My mother looked up , went very white , and put her hand to her bosom . 
I suppose there was a fearful fuss about me . 
And of course I was quite unable to explain my reappearance . 
But I held out stoutly , I won't go back to Chatham I'll drown myself first . 
The next day my mother carried me off to Wimblehurst , took me fiercely and aggressively to an uncle I had never heard of before , near though the place was to us . 
She gave me no word as to what was to happen , and I was too subdued by her manifest wrath and humiliation at my last misdemeanour to demand information . 
I don't for one moment think Lady Drew was nice about me . 
The finality of my banishment was endorsed and underlined and stamped home . 
I wished very much now that I had run away to sea , in spite of the coal dust and squalour Rochester had revealed to me . 
Perhaps over seas one came to different lands . 
I have not seen your uncle , she said , since he was a boy . 
She added grudgingly , Then he was supposed to be clever . 
She took little interest in such qualities as cleverness . 
He married about three years ago , and set up for himself in Wimblehurst . 
So I suppose she had some money . 
She mused on scenes she had long dismissed from her mind . 
Teddy , she said at last in the tone of one who has been feeling in the dark and finds . 
Now he must be twenty six or seven . 
To describe it in and other terms is more difficult . 
It is nimbleness without grace , and alertness without intelligence . 
That must be him , said my mother , catching at her breath . 
There was a plaster of Paris horse to indicate veterinary medicines among these breakables , and below were scent packets and diffusers and sponges and soda water syphons and such like things . 
Only in the middle there was a rubricated card , very neatly painted by hand , with these words Buy Ponderevo's Cough Linctus NOW . 
NOW ! WHY ? Twopence Cheaper than in Winter . 
You Store apples ! why not the Medicine You are Bound to Need ? in which appeal I was to recognise presently my uncle's distinctive note . 
My uncle's face appeared above a card of infant's comforters in the glass pane of the door . 
I perceived his eyes were brown , and that his glasses creased his nose . 
It was manifest he did not know us from Adam . 
A stare of scrutiny allowed an expression of commercial deference to appear in front of it , and my uncle flung open the door . 
You don't know me ? panted my mother . 
My uncle would not own he did not , but his curiosity was manifest . 
My mother sat down on one of the little chairs before the soap and patent medicine piled counter , and her lips opened and closed . 
A glass of water , madam , said my uncle , waved his hand in a sort of curve and shot away . 
My mother drank the water and spoke . 
That boy , she said , takes after his father . 
He grows more like him every day . 
And so I have brought him to you . 
His father , madam ? George . 
For a moment the chemist was still at a loss . 
He stood behind the counter with the glass my mother had returned to him in his hand . 
By Gosh ! he said . 
He disappeared replacing them , behind a pile of boxed up bottles of blood mixture . 
Eleven thousand virgins ! I heard him cry . 
The glass was banged down . 
O ri ental Gums ! He shot away out of the shop through some masked door . 
Susan ! Susan ! Then he reappeared with an extended hand . 
Well , how are you ? he said . 
I was never so surprised in my life . 
You ! He shook my mother's impassive hand and then mine very warmly holding his glasses on with his left forefinger . 
Come right in ! he cried come right in ! Better late than never ! and led the way into the parlour behind the shop . 
After Bladesover that apartment struck me as stuffy and petty , but it was very comfortable in comparison with the Frapp living room . 
The table cloth had ball fringe and so had the window curtains , and the carpet was a bed of roses . 
There were little cupboards on either side of the fireplace , and in the recesses , ill made shelves packed with books , and enriched with pinked American cloth . 
There was a dictionary lying face downward on the table , and the open bureau was littered with foolscap paper and the evidences of recently abandoned toil . 
My eye caught The Ponderevo Patent Flat , a Machine you can Live in , written in large firm letters . 
My uncle opened a little door like a cupboard door in the corner of this room , and revealed the narrowest twist of staircase I had ever set eyes upon . 
Susan ! he bawled again . 
Some one to see you . 
It's Aunt Ponderevo , cried my uncle . 
George's wife and she's brought over her son ! His eye roamed about the room . 
He darted to the bureau with a sudden impulse , and turned the sheet about the patent flat face down . 
Then he waved his glasses at us , You know , Susan , my elder brother George . 
I told you about 'im lots of times . 
He fretted across to the hearthrug and took up a position there , replaced his glasses and coughed . 
My aunt Susan seemed to be taking it in . 
She had little features , a button nose , a pretty chin and a long graceful neck that stuck out of her pale blue cotton morning dress . 
You know , he said . 
Well , she said to my mother , descending the last three steps of the staircase and holding out her hand ! you're welcome . 
I can't ask you to HAVE anything , I'm afraid , for there isn't anything in the house . 
She smiled , and looked at her husband banteringly . 
Unless he makes up something with his old chemicals , which he's quite equal to doing . 
My mother shook hands stiffly , and told me to kiss my aunt . 
Well , let's all sit down , said my uncle , suddenly whistling through his clenched teeth , and briskly rubbing his hands together . 
He put up a chair for my mother , raised the blind of the little window , lowered it again , and returned to his hearthrug . 
I'm sure , he said , as one who decides , I'm very glad to see you . 
V As they talked I gave my attention pretty exclusively to my uncle . 
I noted him in great detail . 
I remember now his partially unbuttoned waistcoat , as though something had occurred to distract him as he did it up , and a little cut upon his chin . 
I liked a certain humour in his eyes . 
He had a way of drawing air in at times through his teeth that gave a whispering zest to his speech It's a sound I can only represent as a soft Zzzz . 
He did most of the talking . 
My mother repeated what she had already said in the shop , I have brought George over to you , and then desisted for a time from the real business in hand . 
You find this a comfortable house ? she asked and this being affirmed It looks very convenient . 
Not too big to be a trouble no . 
The talk hung for a time , and then my uncle embarked upon a dissertation upon Wimblehurst . 
This place , he began , isn't of course quite the place I ought to be in . 
My mother nodded as though she had expected that . 
It gives me no Scope , he went on . 
He's always wanting something to happen , said my aunt Susan . 
Some day he'll get a shower of things and they'll be too much for him . 
Not they , said my uncle , buoyantly . 
Do you find business slack ? asked my mother . 
Oh ! one rubs along . 
But there's no Development no growth . 
They just come along here and buy pills when they want 'em and a horseball or such . 
They've got to be ill before there's a prescription . 
You can't get 'em to launch out , you can't get 'em to take up anything new . 
For instance , I've been trying lately induce them to buy their medicines in advance , and in larger quantities . 
See ? But Lord ! they've no capacity for ideas , they don't catch on no Jump about the place , no Life . 
Live ! they trickle , and what one has to do here is to trickle too Zzzz . 
Ah ! said my mother . 
It doesn't suit me , said my uncle . 
George was that , said my mother after a pondering moment . 
My aunt Susan took up the parable with an affectionate glance at her husband . 
He's always trying to make his old business jump , she said . 
Always putting fresh cards in the window , or getting up to something . 
It makes ME jump sometimes . 
But it does no good , said my uncle . 
It does no good , said his wife . 
Presently they came upon a wide pause . 
From the beginning of their conversation there had been the promise of this pause , and I pricked my ears . 
I knew perfectly what was bound to come they were going to talk of my father . 
I was enormously strengthened in my persuasion when I found my mother's eyes resting thoughtfully upon me in the silence , and than my uncle looked at me and then my aunt . 
I struggled unavailingly to produce an expression of meek stupidity . 
I think , said my uncle , that George will find it more amusing to have a turn in the market place than to sit here talking with us . 
There's a pair of stocks there , George very interesting . 
I don't mind sitting here , I said . 
My uncle rose and in the most friendly way led me through the shop . 
He stood on his doorstep and jerked amiable directions to me . 
Nobody would wake ! The chaps up there in the churchyard they'd just turn over and say 'Naar you don't catch us , you don't ! See ? . 
Well , you'll find the stocks just round that corner . 
He watched me out of sight . 
So I never heard what they said about my father after all . 
VI When I returned , my uncle had in some remarkable way become larger and central . 
Tha'chu , George ? he cried , when the shop door bell sounded . 
Come right through and I found him , as it were , in the chairman's place before the draped grate . 
The three of them regarded me . 
We have been talking of making you a chemist , George , said my uncle . 
My mother looked at me . 
I had hoped , she said , that Lady Drew would have done something for him She stopped . 
In what way ? said my uncle . 
She might have spoken to some one , got him into something perhaps . 
She had the servant's invincible persuasion that all good things are done by patronage . 
He is not the sort of boy for whom things are done , she added , dismissing these dreams . 
When he thinks Lady Drew wishes a thing , he seems not to wish it . 
Towards Mr. Redgrave , too , he has been disrespectful he is like his father . 
Who's Mr. Redgrave ? The Vicar . 
A bit independent ? said my uncle , briskly . 
Disobedient , said my mother . 
He has no idea of his place . 
He seems to think he can get on by slighting people and flouting them . 
He'll learn perhaps before it is too late . 
My uncle stroked his cut chin and me . 
Have you learnt any Latin ? he asked abruptly . 
I said I had not . 
He'll have to learn a little Latin , he explained to my mother , to qualify . 
He could go down to the chap at the grammar school here it's just been routed into existence again by the Charity Commissioners and have lessons . 
What , me learn Latin ! I cried , with emotion . 
A little , he said . 
The literature I had read at Bladesover had all tended that way . 
Latin had had a quality of emancipation for me that I find it difficult to convey . 
And afterwards you will have to learn all sorts of other things . 
The idea that I was to go on learning , that to read and master the contents of books was still to be justifiable as a duty , overwhelmed all other facts . 
I had had it rather clear in my mind for some weeks that all that kind of opportunity might close to me for ever . 
I began to take a lively interest in this new project . 
Then shall I live here ? I asked , with you , and study . 
as well as work in the shop ? That's the way of it , said my uncle . 
I parted from my mother that day in a dream , so sudden and important was this new aspect of things to me . 
You must be a good boy , George , she said . 
And you mustn't set yourself up against those who are above you and better than you . 
No , mother , I said . 
Her eyes were fixed upon me . 
I was wondering whether I could by any means begin Latin that night . 
Something touched her heart then , some thought , some memory perhaps some premonition . 
The solitary porter began slamming carriage doors . 
George she said hastily , almost shamefully , kiss me ! I stepped up into her compartment as she bent downward . 
She caught me in her arms quite eagerly , she pressed me to her a strange thing for her to do . 
I perceived her eyes were extraordinarily bright , and then this brightness burst along the lower lids and rolled down her cheeks . 
For the first and last time in my life I saw my mother's tears . 
Then she had gone , leaving me discomforted and perplexed , forgetting for a time even that I was to learn Latin , thinking of my mother as of something new and strange . 
The thing recurred though I sought to dismiss it , it stuck itself into my memory against the day of fuller understanding . 
VII My mother died suddenly and , it was thought by Lady Drew , inconsiderately , the following spring . 
Her ladyship instantly fled to Folkestone with Miss Somerville and Fison , until the funeral should be over and my mother's successor installed . 
My uncle took me over to the funeral . 
No doubt the sense of the new silk hat came and went and came again in my emotional chaos . 
Never die ! The day was a high and glorious morning in spring , and all the trees were budding and bursting into green . 
And in the middle was the brown coffin end , tilting on men's shoulders and half occluded by the vicar's Oxford hood . 
And so we came to my mother's waiting grave . 
For a time I was very observant , watching the coffin lowered , hearing the words of the ritual . 
It seemed a very curious business altogether . 
Suddenly I knew I had not understood . 
Suddenly I saw her tenderly remembered not so much tender or kindly things of her as her crossed wishes and the ways in which I had thwarted her . 
And now she was there and deaf and blind to me , pitifully defeated in her designs for me , covered from me so that she could not know . 
I dug my nails into the palms of my hands , I set my teeth , but tears blinded me , sobs would have choked me had speech been required of me . 
The old vicar read on , there came a mumbled response and so on to the end . 
I wept as it were internally , and only when we had come out of the churchyard could I think and speak calmly again . 
VIII That is the last I shall tell of Bladesover . 
The dropscene falls on that , and it comes no more as an actual presence into this novel . 
I did indeed go back there once again , but under circumstances quite immaterial to my story . 
But in a sense Bladesover has never left me it is , as I said at the outset , one of those dominant explanatory impressions that make the framework of my mind . 
Bladesover illuminates England it has become all that is spacious , dignified pretentious , and truly conservative in English life . 
It is my social datum . 
That is why I have drawn it here on so large a scale . 
When I came back at last to the real Bladesover on an inconsequent visit , everything was far smaller than I could have supposed possible . 
It was as though everything had shivered and shrivelled a little at the Lichtenstein touch . 
There was the trail of the Bond Street showroom over it all . 
The furniture was still under chintz , but it wasn't the same sort of chintz although it pretended to be , and the lustre dangling chandeliers had passed away . 
It is nonsense to pretend that finance makes any better aristocrats than rent . 
Nothing can make an aristocrat but pride , knowledge , training , and the sword . 
These people were no improvement on the Drews , none whatever . 
There was no effect of a beneficial replacement of passive unintelligent people by active intelligent ones . 
One felt that a smaller but more enterprising and intensely undignified variety of stupidity had replaced the large dullness of the old gentry , and that was all . 
These Lichtensteins and their like seem to have no promise in them at all of any fresh vitality for the kingdom . 
They could not have made Bladesover they cannot replace it they just happen to break out over it saprophytically . 
Well that was my last impression of Bladesover . 
CHAPTER THE THIRD THE WIMBLEHURST APPRENTICESHIP I So far as I can remember now , except for that one emotional phase by the graveside , I passed through all these experiences rather callously . 
Wimblehurst is an exceptionally quiet and grey Sussex town rare among south of England towns in being largely built of stone . 
I found something very agreeable and picturesque in its clean cobbled streets , its odd turnings and abrupt corners and in the pleasant park that crowds up one side of the town . 
The whole place is under the Eastry dominion and it was the Eastry influence and dignity that kept its railway station a mile and three quarters away . 
Eastry was far greater than Bladesover and an altogether completer example of the eighteenth century system . 
It ruled not two villages , but a borough , that had sent its sons and cousins to parliament almost as a matter of right so long as its franchise endured . 
Every one was in the system , every one except my uncle . 
He stood out and complained . 
My uncle was the first real breach I found in the great front of Bladesover the world had presented me , for Chatham was not so much a breach as a confirmation . 
But my uncle had no respect for Bladesover and Eastry none whatever . 
He did not believe in them . 
He was blind even to what they were . 
He propounded strange phrases about them , he exfoliated and wagged about novel and incredible ideas . 
I'd like to let a dozen young Americans loose into it , said my uncle . 
I made a tick against Mother Shipton's Sleeping Syrup . 
We had cleared our forward stock . 
Things must be happening SOMEWHERE , George , he broke out in a querulously rising note as he came back into the little shop . 
I must do SOMETHING , he said . 
There's a deal of money in a play , George . 
What would you think of me writing a play eh ? . 
There's all sorts of things to be done . 
He fell into that meditative whistling of his . 
Nothing ever happens , nobody wants things to happen 'scept me ! Up in London , George , things happen . 
America ! I wish to Heaven , George , I'd been born American where things hum . 
What can one do here ? How can one grow ? While we're sleepin' here with our Capital oozing away into Lord Eastry's pockets for rent men are up there . 
What sort of things do they do ? I asked . 
Rush about , he said . 
Do things ! Somethin' glorious . 
Ever heard of that , George ? He drew the air in through his teeth . 
You put down a hundred say , and buy ten thousand pounds worth . 
See ? That's a cover of one per cent . 
Things go up one , you sell , realise cent per cent down , whiff , it's gone ! Try again ! Cent per cent , George , every day . 
Men are made or done for in an hour . 
And the shoutin' ! Zzzz . 
Well , that's one way , George . 
Then another way there's Corners ! They're rather big things , aren't they ? I ventured . 
Oh , if you go in for wheat or steel yes . 
But suppose you tackled a little thing , George . 
Just some little thing that only needed a few thousands . 
Shoved all you had into it staked your liver on it , so to speak . 
Take a drug take ipecac , for example . 
Take a lot of ipecac . 
Take all there is ! See ? There you are ! There aren't unlimited supplies of ipecacuanha can't be ! and it's a thing people must have . 
Then quinine again ! You watch your chance , wait for a tropical war breaking out , let's say , and collar all the quinine . 
Where ARE they ? Must have quinine , you know . 
Lord ! there's no end of things no end of little things . 
Dill water all the suffering babes yowling for it . 
Eucalyptus again cascara witch hazel menthol all the toothache things . 
Then there's antiseptics , and curare , cocaine . 
Rather a nuisance to the doctors , I reflected . 
They got to look out for themselves . 
They'll do you if they can , and you do them . 
That's the Romance of Commerce , George . 
That 'ud wake up Wimblehurst . 
Lord ! You haven't an Idea down here . 
He passed into a rapt dream , from which escaped such fragments as Fifty per cent . 
advance sir security to morrow . 
The idea of cornering a drug struck upon my mind then as a sort of irresponsible monkey trick that no one would ever be permitted to do in reality . 
It was the sort of nonsense one would talk to make Ewart laugh and set him going on to still odder possibilities . 
I thought it was part of my uncle's way of talking . 
But I've learnt differently since . 
The whole trend of modern money making is to foresee something that will presently be needed and put it out of reach , and then to haggle yourself wealthy . 
You buy up land upon which people will presently want to build houses , you secure rights that will bar vitally important developments , and so on , and so on . 
Of course the naive intelligence of a boy does not grasp the subtler developments of human inadequacy . 
I will confess that when my uncle talked of cornering quinine , I had a clear impression that any one who contrived to do that would pretty certainly go to jail . 
But at last he reverted to Wimblehurst again . 
You got to be in London when these things are in hand . 
Down here ! Jee rusalem ! he cried . 
Why did I plant myself here ? Everything's done . 
Here's Lord Eastry , and he's got everything , except what his lawyers get , and before you get any more change this way you'll have to dynamite him and them . 
HE doesn't want anything more to happen . 
Why should he ? Any chance 'ud be a loss to him . 
They've all shook down into their places . 
THEY don't want anything to happen either . 
There you are ! Only what are they all alive for ? . 
Why can't they get a clockwork chemist ? He concluded as he often concluded these talks . 
I must invent something , that's about what I must do . 
For me the years at Wimblehurst were years of pretty active growth . 
Most of my leisure and much of my time in the shop I spent in study . 
There were classes in physics , in chemistry , in mathematics and machine drawing , and I took up these subjects with considerable avidity . 
Exercise I got chiefly in the form of walks . 
I didn't find any very close companions among the youths of Wimblehurst . 
They struck me , after my cockney schoolmates , as loutish and slow , servile and furtive , spiteful and mean . 
And even then they weren't much in the way of thoughts . 
No , I didn't like those young countrymen , and I'm no believer in the English countryside under the Bladesover system as a breeding ground for honourable men . 
One hears a frightful lot of nonsense about the Rural Exodus and the degeneration wrought by town life upon our population . 
To my mind , the English townsman , even in the slums , is infinitely better spiritually , more courageous , more imaginative and cleaner , than his agricultural cousin . 
I've seen them both when they didn't think they were being observed , and I know . 
There was something about my Wimblehurst companions that disgusted me . 
Whatever we exiled urbans did at Goudhurst was touched with something , however coarse , of romantic imagination . 
We had read the Boys of England , and told each other stories . 
That , I think , is where the real difference against the English rural man lies . 
It is because I know this that I do not share in the common repinings because our countryside is being depopulated , because our population is passing through the furnace of the towns . 
They starve , they suffer , no doubt , but they come out of it hardened , they come out of it with souls . 
A half dozen phrases constituted his conversation hard lines ! he used to say , and Good baazness , in a bass bleat . 
Moreover , he had a long slow whistle that was esteemed the very cream of humorous comment . 
Night after night he was there . 
Also you knew he would not understand that I could play billiards , and regarded every stroke I made as a fluke . 
For a beginner I didn't play so badly , I thought . 
I'm not so sure now that was my opinion at the time . 
But young Dodd's scepticism and the good baazness finally cured me of my disposition to frequent the Eastry Arms , and so these noises had their value in my world . 
I made no friends among the young men of the place at all , and though I was entering upon adolescence I have no love affair to tell of here . 
I only kissed these girls once or twice . 
They rather disconcerted than developed those dreams . 
They were so clearly not it . 
I shall have much to say of love in this story , but I may break it to the reader now that it is my role to be a rather ineffectual lover . 
Desire I knew well enough indeed , too well but love I have been shy of . 
And I had a curiously haunting memory of Beatrice , of her kisses in the bracken and her kiss upon the wall , that somehow pitched the standard too high for Wimblehurst's opportunities . 
I left behind me no devastating memories , no splendid reputation . 
I came away at last , still inexperienced and a little thwarted , with only a natural growth of interest and desire in sexual things . 
If I fell in love with any one in Wimblehurst it was with my aunt . 
Quite unconsciously I grew fond of her . 
There was something about me in those days more than a little priggish . 
But it was , to do myself justice , something more than the petty pride of learning . 
I had a very grave sense of discipline and preparation that I am not ashamed at all to remember . 
More serious than I am at the present time . 
More serious , indeed , than any adult seems to be . 
I was capable then of efforts of nobilities . 
They are beyond me now . 
I don't see why , at forty , I shouldn't confess I respect my own youth . 
I had dropped being a boy quite abruptly . 
I thought I was presently to go out into a larger and quite important world and do significant things there . 
I thought I was destined to do something definite to a world that had a definite purpose . 
I did not understand then , as I do now , that life was to consist largely in the world's doing things to me . 
Young people never do seem to understand that aspect of things . 
In a way that definition made me patient . 
Presently I shall get to London , I said , echoing him . 
I remember him now as talking , always talking , in those days . 
When I think of those early talks , I figure him always in one of three positions . 
Ol Amjig , George , she would read derisively , and he pretends it's almond oil ! Snap ! and that's mustard . 
Did you ever , George ? Look at him , George , looking dignified . 
I'd like to put an old label on to him round the middle like his bottles are , with Ol Pondo on it . 
That's Latin for Impostor , George MUST be . 
He'd look lovely with a stopper . 
YOU want a stopper , said my uncle , projecting his face . 
My aunt , dear soul , was in those days quite thin and slender , with a delicate rosebud completion and a disposition to connubial badinage , to a sort of gentle skylarking . 
There was a silvery ghost of lisping in her speech . 
She affected a derisive attitude to the world at large and applied the epithet old to more things than I have ever heard linked to it before or since . 
Here's the old news paper , she used to say to my uncle . 
Now don't go and get it in the butter , you silly old Sardine ! What's the day of the week , Susan ? my uncle would ask . 
Old Monday , Sossidge , she would say , and add , I got all my Old Washing to do . 
Don't I KNOW it ! . 
She had evidently been the wit and joy of a large circle of schoolfellows , and this style had become a second nature with her . 
It made her very delightful to me in that quiet place . 
Her customary walk even had a sort of hello ! in it . 
My uncle's laugh when it did come , I must admit was , as Baedeker says , rewarding . 
Sometimes she would shy things at me but not often . 
The vicar , it seems , had tried to blow his nose with a black glove as well as the customary pocket handkerchief . 
And afterwards she had picked up her own glove by the finger , and looking innocently but intently sideways , had suddenly by this simple expedient exploded my uncle altogether . 
We had it all over again at dinner . 
Not by any means ! And , Lord ! it was funny ! Socially , my uncle and aunt were almost completely isolated . 
But my uncle , for the most part , spent his evenings at home . 
His appearance in a public house led to a pause in any conversation that was going on . 
Come to tell us about everything , Mr. Pond'revo ? some one would say politely . 
You wait , my uncle used to answer , disconcerted , and sulk for the rest of his visit . 
Or some one with an immense air of innocence would remark to the world generally , They're talkin' of rebuildin' Wimblehurst all over again , I'm told . 
Anybody heard anything of it ? Going to make it a reg'lar smartgoin' , enterprisin' place kind of Crystal Pallas . 
Earthquake and a pestilence before you get that , my uncle would mutter , to the infinite delight of every one , and add something inaudible about Cold Mutton Fat . 
III We were torn apart by a financial accident to my uncle of which I did not at first grasp the full bearings . 
He had developed what I regarded as an innocent intellectual recreation which he called stock market meteorology . 
I think he got the idea from one use of curves in the graphic presentation of associated variations that he saw me plotting . 
He secured some of my squared paper and , having cast about for a time , decided to trace the rise and fall of certain lines and railways . 
It's as plain as can be , he said . 
See , here's one system of waves and here's another ! These are prices for Union Pacifics extending over a month . 
Now next week , mark my words , they'll be down one whole point . 
We're getting near the steep part of the curve again . 
See ? It's absolutely scientific . 
He took me for a long walk to break it to me , over the hills towards Yare and across the great gorse commons by Hazelbrow . 
There are ups and downs in life , George , he said halfway across that great open space , and paused against the sky . 
I left out one factor in the Union Pacific analysis . 
DID you ? I said , struck by the sudden chance in his voice . 
But you don't mean ? I stopped and turned on him in the narrow sandy rut of pathway and he stopped likewise . 
It's bust me ! I'm a bankrupt here and now . 
Then ? The shop's bust too . 
I shall have to get out of that . 
And me ? Oh , you ! YOU'RE all right . 
You can transfer your apprenticeship , and er well , I'm not the sort of man to be careless with trust funds , you can be sure . 
I kept that aspect in mind . 
There's some of it left George trust me ! quite a decent little sum . 
But you and aunt ? It isn't QUITE the way we meant to leave Wimblehurst , George but we shall have to go . 
Sale all the things shoved about and ticketed lot a hundred and one . 
It's been a larky little house in some ways . 
Furnishing a spree in its way . 
His face winced at some memory . 
Let's go on , George , he said shortly , near choking , I could see . 
I turned my back on him , and did not look round again for a little while . 
That's how it is , you see , George . 
I heard him after a time . 
When we were back in the high road again he came alongside , and for a time we walked in silence . 
Don't say anything home yet , he said presently . 
I got to pick the proper time with Susan else she'll get depressed . 
Not that she isn't a first rate brick whatever comes along . 
All right , I said , I'll be careful and it seemed to me for the time altogether too selfish to bother him with any further inquiries about his responsibility as my trustee . 
He gave a little sigh of relief at my note of assent , and was presently talking quite cheerfully of his plans . 
But he had , I remember , one lapse into moodiness that came and went suddenly . 
Those others ! he said , as though the thought had stung him for the first time . 
What others ? I asked . 
Damn them ! said he . 
But what others ? All those damned stick in the mud and die slowly tradespeople Ruck , the butcher , Marbel , the grocer . 
For he had the good luck to sell his business , lock , stock , and barrel in which expression I found myself and my indentures included . 
The horrors of a sale by auction of the furniture even were avoided . 
I remember that either coming or going on that occasion , Ruck , the butcher , stood in his doorway and regarded us with a grin that showed his long teeth . 
You half witted hog ! said my uncle . 
You grinning hyaena and then , Pleasant day , Mr. Ruck . 
Goin' to make your fortun' in London , then ? said Mr. Ruck , with slow enjoyment . 
That last excursion took us along the causeway to Beeching , and so up the downs and round almost as far as Steadhurst , home . 
My moods , as we went , made a mingled web . 
And you know , I was also acutely sorry for him almost as sorry as I was for my aunt Susan . 
Even then I had quite found him out . 
I knew him to be weaker than myself his incurable , irresponsible childishness was as clear to me then as it was on his deathbed , his redeeming and excusing imaginative silliness . 
Through some odd mental twist perhaps I was disposed to exonerate him even at the cost of blaming my poor old mother who had left things in his untrustworthy hands . 
I should have forgiven him altogether , I believe , if he had been in any manner apologetic to me but he wasn't that . 
He kept reassuring me in a way I found irritating . 
Mostly , however , his solicitude was for Aunt Susan and himself . 
It's these Crises , George , he said , try Character . 
Your aunt's come out well , my boy . 
He made meditative noises for a space . 
Had her cry of course , the thing had been only too painfully evident to me in her eyes and swollen face who wouldn't ? But now buoyant again ! . 
We'll be sorry to leave the little house of course . 
It's a bit like Adam and Eve , you know . 
Lord ! what a chap old Milton was ! 'The world was all before them , where to choose Their place of rest , and Providence their guide . 
Well thank goodness there's no imeedgit prospect of either Cain or Abel ! After all , it won't be so bad up there . 
Not the scenery , perhaps , or the air we get here , but LIFE ! We've got very comfortable little rooms , very comfortable considering , and I shall rise . 
We're not done yet , we're not beaten don't think that , George . 
I shall pay twenty shillings in the pound before I've done you mark my words , George , twenty five to you . 
I got this situation within twenty four hours others offered . 
It's an important firm one of the best in London . 
I might have got four or five shillings a week more elsewhere . 
But I said to them plainly , wages to go on with , but opportunity's my game development . 
He threw out his chest , and the little round eyes behind his glasses rested valiantly on imaginary employers . 
We would go on in silence for a space while he revised and restated that encounter . 
Then he would break out abruptly with some banal phrase . 
That's all right , he would say or , Leave all that to me . 
And he would drift away towards the philosophy and moral of the situation . 
What was I to do ? Never put all your resources into one chance , George that's the lesson I draw from this . 
It was a hundred to one , George , that I was right a hundred to one . 
I worked it out afterwards . 
And here we are spiked on the off chance . 
If I'd have only kept back a little , I'd have had it on U. P. next day , like a shot , and come out on the rise . 
There you are ! His thoughts took a graver turn . 
It's where you'll bump up against Chance like this , George , that you feel the need of religion . 
Your hard and fast scientific men your Spencers and Huxleys they don't understand that . 
I've thought of it a lot lately in bed and about . 
I was thinking of it this morning while I shaved . 
It's not irreverent for me to say it , I hope but God comes in on the off chance , George . 
See ? Don't you be too cocksure of anything , good or bad . 
That's what I make out of it . 
And it was bad ! It's a lesson to me . 
You start in to get a hundred percent . 
and you come out with that . 
It means , in a way , a reproof for Pride . 
I've thought of that , George in the Night Watches . 
I was thinking this morning when I was shaving , that that's where the good of it all comes in . 
At the bottom I'm a mystic in these affairs . 
YOU'RE being done in a sense . 
Take a hundred to one chance , or one to a hundred what does it matter ? You're being Led . 
Not without a bit of paper to figure on , George , I can't . 
But you trust me about that never fear . 
And in the end I had to . 
I think the bankruptcy hit my aunt pretty hard . 
There was , so far as I can remember now , a complete cessation of all those cheerful outbreaks of elasticity , no more skylarking in the shop nor scampering about the house . 
But there was no fuss that I saw , and only little signs in her complexion of the fits of weeping that must have taken her . 
She didn't cry at the end , though to me her face with its strain of self possession was more pathetic than any weeping . 
Then she dived straight for the cab before I could answer her . 
My uncle followed , and he seemed to me a trifle too valiant and confident in his bearing for reality . 
He was unusually white in the face . 
He spoke to his successor at the counter . 
Here we go ! he said . 
One down , the other up . 
You'll find it a quiet little business so long as you run it on quiet lines a nice quiet little business . 
There's nothing more ? No ? Well , if you want to know anything write to me . 
Anything business , place or people . 
a little overstocked by the by , I found it soothed my mind the day before yesterday making 'em , and I made 'em all day . 
Thousands ! And where's George ? Ah ! there you are ! I'll write to you , George , FULLY , about all that affair . 
Fully ! It became clear to me as if for the first time , that I was really parting from my aunt Susan . 
Good bye ! she said to it and to me . 
Our eyes met for a moment perplexed . 
My uncle bustled out and gave a few totally unnecessary directions to the cabman and got in beside her . 
All right ? asked the driver . 
Right , said I and he woke up the horse with a flick of his whip . 
My aunt's eyes surveyed me again . 
Stick to your old science and things , George , and write and tell me when they make you a Professor , she said cheerfully . 
So soon as the freshness of this new personality faded , I began to find Wimblehurst not only a dull but a lonely place , and to miss my aunt Susan immensely . 
, and then to mathematics and science . 
There were classes in Electricity and Magnetism at the Grammar School . 
I learnt out of badly written , condensed little text books , and with the minimum of experiment , but still I learnt . 
There was no argon , no radium , no phagocytes at least to my knowledge , and aluminium was a dear , infrequent metal . 
The fastest ships in the world went then at nineteen knots , and no one but a lunatic here and there ever thought it possible that men might fly . 
Many things have happened since then , but the last glance I had of Wimblehurst two years ago remarked no change whatever in its pleasant tranquillity . 
They had not even built any fresh houses at least not actually in the town , though about the station there had been some building . 
But it was a good place to do work in , for all its quiescence . 
The degree in mathematics and chemistry appealed to me as particularly congenial albeit giddily inaccessible . 
I had presently to arrange a holiday and go to London to matriculate , and so it was I came upon my aunt and uncle again . 
In many ways that visit marked an epoch . 
It was my first impression of London at all . 
I was then nineteen , and by a conspiracy of chances my nearest approach to that human wilderness had been my brief visit to Chatham . 
Chatham too had been my largest town . 
So that I got London at last with an exceptional freshness of effect , as the sudden revelation of a whole unsuspected other side to life . 
I came to it on a dull and smoky day by the South Eastern Railway , and our train was half an hour late , stopping and going on and stopping again . 
I alighted with my portmanteau and struggled along , realising for the first time just how small and weak I could still upon occasion feel . 
In this world , I felt , an Honours medal in Electricity and magnetism counted for nothing at all . 
Afterwards I drove in a cab down a canon of rushing street between high warehouses , and peeped up astonished at the blackened greys of Saint Paul's . 
Down a turning I found the Temperance Hotel Mr. Mantell had recommended to me . 
The porter in a green uniform who took over my portmanteau , seemed , I thought , to despise me a good deal . 
V Matriculation kept me for four full days and then came an afternoon to spare , and I sought out Tottenham Court Road through a perplexing network of various and crowded streets . 
But this London was vast ! it was endless ! it seemed the whole world had changed into packed frontages and hoardings and street spaces . 
Lord ! he said at the sight of me , I was wanting something to happen ! He greeted me warmly . 
I had grown taller , and he , I thought , had grown shorter and smaller and rounder but otherwise he was unchanged . 
Come to ask me about all THAT , he cried . 
Oh , among other things , said I , with a sudden regrettable politeness , and waived the topic of his trusteeship to ask after my aunt Susan . 
We'll have her out of it , he said suddenly we'll go somewhere . 
We don't get you in London every day . 
London , she said , didn't get blacks on her . 
She still cheeked my uncle , I was pleased to find . 
What are you old Poking in for at THIS time Gubbitt ? , she said when he appeared , and she still looked with a practised eye for the facetious side of things . 
When she saw me behind him , she gave a little cry and stood up radiant . 
I was surprised at my own emotion in seeing her . 
She held me at arm's length for a moment , a hand on each shoulder , and looked at me with a sort of glad scrutiny . 
She seemed to hesitate , and then pecked little kiss off my cheek . 
You're a man , George , she said , as she released me , and continued to look at me for a while . 
Their menage was one of a very common type in London . 
They occupied what is called the dining room floor of a small house , and they had the use of a little inconvenient kitchen in the basement that had once been scullery . 
There was of course no bathroom or anything of that sort available , and there was no water supply except to the kitchen below . 
My aunt did all the domestic work , though she could have afforded to pay for help if the build of the place had not rendered that inconvenient to the pitch of impossibility . 
There was no sort of help available except that of indoor servants , for whom she had no accommodation . 
It strikes me now as the next thing to wearing second hand clothes . 
You see it was a natural growth , part of that system to which Bladesover , I hold , is the key . 
There are wide regions of London , miles of streets of houses , that appear to have been originally designed for prosperous middle class homes of the early Victorian type . 
There must have been a perfect fury of such building in the thirties , forties , and fifties . 
They were built with basements , in which their servants worked and lived servants of a more submissive and troglodytic generation who did not mind stairs . 
, where the infrequent callers were received . 
That was the vision at which those industrious builders aimed . 
Even while these houses were being run up , the threads upon the loom of fate were shaping to abolish altogether the type of household that would have fitted them . 
None of these classes have ideas of what they ought to be , or fit in any legitimate way into the Bladesover theory that dominates our minds . 
It was nobody's concern to see them housed under civilised conditions , and the beautiful laws of supply and demand had free play . 
They had to squeeze in . 
The landlords came out financially intact from their blundering enterprise . 
And if she didn't chance to let steadily , out she went to pauperdom and some other poor , sordid old adventurer tried in her place . 
It is a foolish community that can house whole classes , useful and helpful , honest and loyal classes , in such squalidly unsuitable dwellings . 
It is by no means the social economy it seems , to use up old women , savings and inexperience in order to meet the landlord's demands . 
VI It pleased my uncle extremely to find I had never seen London before . 
He took possession of the metropolis forthwith . 
London , George , he said , takes a lot of understanding . 
Brought down by drink ! It's a wonderful place , George a whirlpool , a maelstrom ! whirls you up and whirls you down . 
I have a very confused memory of that afternoon's inspection of London . 
My uncle took us to and fro showing us over his London , talking erratically , following a route of his own . 
I remember , too , that as he talked I would find my aunt watching my face as if to check the soundness of his talk by my expression . 
Been in love yet , George ? she asked suddenly , over a bun in the tea shop . 
Too busy , aunt , I told her . 
She bit her bun extensively , and gesticulated with the remnant to indicate that she had more to say . 
How are YOU going to make your fortune ? she said so soon as she could speak again . 
You haven't told us that . 
'Lectricity , said my uncle , taking breath after a deep draught of tea . 
If I make it at all , I said . 
For my part I think shall be satisfied with something less than a fortune . 
We're going to make ours suddenly , she said . 
She jerked her head at my uncle . 
He won't tell me when so I can't get anything ready . 
Going to ride in our carriage and have a garden . 
She finished her bun and twiddled crumbs from her fingers . 
I shall be glad of the garden , she said . 
It's going to be a real big one with rosaries and things . 
You'll get it all right , said my uncle , who had reddened a little . 
Grey horses in the carriage , George , she said . 
It's nice to think about when one's dull . 
And dinners in restaurants often and often . 
And theatres in the stalls . 
And money and money and money . 
You may joke , said my uncle , and hummed for a moment . 
Just as though an old Porpoise like him would ever make money , she said , turning her eyes upon his profile with a sudden lapse to affection . 
I'll do something , said my uncle , you bet ! Zzzz ! and rapped with a shilling on the marble table . 
When you do you'll have to buy me a new pair of gloves , she said , anyhow . 
Look ! you Cabbage you . 
And she held the split under his nose , and pulled a face of comical fierceness . 
Your aunt's a bit impatient , George . 
A woman doesn't understand how long it takes to build up a position . 
In certain directions now I am quietly building up a position . 
I have my three assistants . 
It's a position that , judged by the criterion of imeedjit income , isn't perhaps so good as I deserve , but strategically yes . 
What plans , I said , are you making ? Well , George , there's one thing you can rely upon , I'm doing nothing in a hurry . 
I turn over this one and that , and I don't talk indiscreetly . 
There's No ! I don't think I can tell you that . 
And yet , why NOT ? He got up and closed the door into the shop . 
I've told no one , he remarked , as he sat down again . 
His face flushed slightly , he leant forward over the little table towards me . 
Tono Bungay , said my uncle very slowly and distinctly . 
I thought he was asking me to hear some remote , strange noise . 
I don't hear anything , I said reluctantly to his expectant face . 
Try again , he said , and repeated , Tono Bungay . 
Oh , THAT ! I said . 
But what is it ? Ah ! said my uncle , rejoicing and expanding . 
What IS it ? That's what you got to ask ? What won't it be ? He dug me violently in what he supposed to be my ribs . 
George , he cried George , watch this place ! There's more to follow . 
And that was all I could get from him . 
That , I believe , was the very first time that the words Tono Bungay ever heard on earth unless my uncle indulged in monologues in his chamber a highly probable thing . 
Coming now to business , I said after a pause , and with a chill sense of effort and I opened the question of his trust . 
My uncle sighed , and leant back in his chair . 
I wish I could make all this business as clear to you as it is to me , he said . 
However Go on ! Say what you have to say . 
VII After I left my uncle that evening I gave way to a feeling of profound depression . 
My uncle and aunt seemed to me to be leading I have already used the word too often , but I must use it again DINGY lives . 
The London that was to be an adventurous escape from the slumber of Wimblehurst , had vanished from my dreams . 
I saw my uncle pointing to the houses in Park Lane and showing a frayed shirt cuff as he did so . 
I heard my aunt I'm to ride in my carriage then . 
My feelings towards my uncle were extraordinarily mixed . 
When I got back to Wimblehurst I allowed myself to write him a boyishly sarcastic and sincerely bitter letter . 
Then , believing it to be the only way of escape for me , I set myself far more grimly and resolutely to my studies than I had ever done before . 
After a time I wrote to him in more moderate terms , and he answered me evasively . 
And then I tried to dismiss him from my mind and went on working . 
Yes , that first raid upon London under the moist and chilly depression of January had an immense effect upon me . 
It was for me an epoch making disappointment . 
I had thought of London as a large , free , welcoming , adventurous place , and I saw it slovenly and harsh and irresponsive . 
I did not realise at all what human things might be found behind those grey frontages , what weakness that whole forbidding facade might presently confess . 
It is the constant error of youth to over estimate the Will in things . 
No ! I suffered from the sort of illusion that burnt witches in the seventeenth century . 
I endued her grubby disorder with a sinister and magnificent quality of intention . 
And my uncle's gestures and promises filled me with doubt and a sort of fear for him . 
He seemed to me a lost little creature , too silly to be silent , in a vast implacable condemnation . 
I was full of pity and a sort of tenderness for my aunt Susan , who was doomed to follow his erratic fortunes mocked by his grandiloquent promises . 
I was to learn better . 
But I worked with the terror of the grim underside of London in my soul during all my last year at Wimblehurst . 
That , and a sense of a large tranquillity . 
Each day my accumulating impressions were added to and qualified and brought into relationship with new ones they fused inseparably with others that were purely personal and accidental . 
London ! At first , no doubt , it was a chaos of streets and people and buildings and reasonless going to and fro . 
I do not remember that I ever struggled very steadily to understand it , or explored it with any but a personal and adventurous intention . 
I said at the outset of my first book that I find in Bladesover the clue to all England . 
Well , I certainly imagine it is the clue to the structure of London . 
And as I have gone to and fro in London in certain regions constantly the thought has recurred this is Bladesover House , this answers to Bladesover House . 
The fine gentry may have gone they have indeed largely gone , I think rich merchants may have replaced them , financial adventurers or what not . 
That does not matter the shape is still Bladesover . 
The roads and back ways of Mayfair and all about St . 
There were moments when I seemed to glimpse down areas the white panelling , the very chintz of my mother's room again . 
But now these things have escaped out of the Great House altogether , and taken on a strange independent life of their own . 
England is a country of great Renascence landed gentlefolk who have been unconsciously outgrown and overgrown . 
The south side had no protecting estate . 
To this day I ask myself will those masses ever become structural , will they indeed shape into anything new whatever , or is that cancerous image their true and ultimate diagnosis ? . 
And soon I became quite familiar with the devious . 
vicious , dirtily pleasant eroticism of Soho . 
I found those crowded streets a vast relief from the dull grey exterior of Brompton where I lodged and lived my daily life . 
In Soho , indeed , I got my first inkling of the factor of replacement that is so important in both the English and the American process . 
I did not want simply to live or simply to live happily or well I wanted to serve and do and make with some nobility . 
It is in half the youth of the world . 
II I had come to London as a scholar . 
This latter was in mechanics and metallurgy and I hesitated between the two . 
Moreover it seemed to lead towards engineering , in which I imagined I imagine to this day my particular use is to be found . 
I took its greater uncertainty as a fair risk . 
I came up very keen , not doubting that the really hard and steady industry that had carried me through Wimblehurst would go on still in the new surroundings . 
Only from the very first it didn't . 
When I look back now at my Wimblehurst days , I still find myself surprised at the amount of steady grinding study , of strenuous self discipline that I maintained throughout my apprenticeship . 
In many ways I think that time was the most honourable period in my life . 
I wish I could say with a certain mind that my motives in working so well were large and honourable too . 
Directly I came into the London atmosphere , tasting freedom , tasting irresponsibility and the pull of new forces altogether , my discipline fell from me like a garment . 
One was marked as clever , one played up to the part , and one's little accomplishment stood out finely in one's private reckoning against the sunlit small ignorance of that agreeable place . 
And one stood out finely in the local paper with one's unapproachable yearly harvest of certificates . 
Moreover Wimblehurst had given me no outlet in any other direction . 
But I did not realise all this when I came to London , did not perceive how the change of atmosphere began at once to warp and distribute my energies . 
In the first place I became invisible . 
No one saw my midnight taper no one pointed me out as I crossed the street as an astonishing intellectual phenomenon . 
In the next place I became inconsiderable . 
In Wimblehurst I felt I stood for Science nobody there seemed to have so much as I and to have it so fully and completely . 
In London I walked ignorant in an immensity , and it was clear that among my fellow students from the midlands and the north I was ill equipped and under trained . 
With the utmost exertion I should only take a secondary position among them . 
I came to London in late September , and it was a very different London from that great greyly overcast , smoke stained house wilderness of my first impressions . 
I reached it by Victoria and not by Cannon Street , and its centre was now in Exhibition Road . 
It shone , pale amber , blue grey and tenderly spacious and fine under clear autumnal skies . 
a London of hugely handsome buildings and vistas and distances , a London of gardens and labyrinthine tall museums , of old trees and remote palaces and artificial waters . 
I lodged near by in West Brompton at a house in a little square . 
So London faced me the second time , making me forget altogether for a while the grey , drizzling city visage that had first looked upon me . 
With this was a growing sense of loneliness , a desire for adventure and intercourse . 
The whole illimitable place teemed with suggestions of indefinite and sometimes outrageous possibility , of hidden but magnificent meanings . 
My apprehension of spaces and places was reinforced by a quickened apprehension of persons . 
The very hoardings clamoured strangely at one's senses and curiosities . 
Always I was coming on the queerest new aspects . 
, and wishing all the sisters were not so obviously engaged . 
Then on the remote hill of this boundless city world I found Ewart . 
His landlady , a pleasant , dirty young woman with soft brown eyes , brought down his message for me to come up and up I went . 
The room presented itself as ample and interesting in detail and shabby with a quite commendable shabbiness . 
There was a gas stove in one corner , and some enameled ware that had been used for overnight cooking . 
The oilcloth on the floor was streaked with a peculiar white dust . 
His neck seemed longer and more stringy than it had been even in our schooldays , and his upper lip had a wiry black moustache . 
The rest of his ruddy , knobby countenance , his erratic hair and his general hairy leanness had not even to my perceptions grown . 
By Jove ! he said , you've got quite decent looking , Ponderevo ! What do you think of me ? You're all right . 
What are you doing here ? Art , my son sculpture ! And incidentally He hesitated . 
Will you hand me that pipe and those smoking things ? So ! You can't make coffee , eh ? Well , try your hand . 
Cast down this screen no fold it up and so we'll go into the other room . 
I'll keep in bed all the same . 
The fire's a gas stove . 
Don't make it bang too loud as you light it I can't stand it this morning . 
Well , it does me good to see you again , Ponderevo . 
Tell me what you're doing , and how you're getting on . 
How's Life's Morning , Ponderevo ? By Jove , it must be nearly six years since we met ! They've got moustaches . 
We've fleshed ourselves a bit , eh ? And you ? I felt a pipe was becoming after all , and that lit , I gave him a favourable sketch of my career . 
Science ! And you've worked like that ! While I've been potting round doing odd jobs for stone masons and people , and trying to get to sculpture . 
I've a sort of feeling that the chisel I began with painting , Ponderevo , and found I was colour blind , colour blind enough to stop it . 
I've drawn about and thought about thought more particularly . 
I give myself three days a week as an art student , and the rest of the time I've a sort of trade that keeps me . 
And we're still in the beginning of things , young men starting . 
Do you ? I've been too busy . 
I'm just beginning just as we were then . 
He sucked at his pipe for a space and stared at the plaster cast of a flayed hand that hung on the wall . 
The fact is , Ponderevo , I'm beginning to find life a most extraordinary queer set out the things that pull one , the things that don't . 
The wants This business of sex . 
No end to it , no way out of it , no sense in it . 
There are times when women take possession of me , when my mind is like a painted ceiling at Hampton Court with the pride of the flesh sprawling all over it . 
And then again sometimes when I have to encounter a woman , I am overwhelmed by a terror of tantalising boredom I fly , I hide , I do anything . 
You've got your scientific explanations perhaps what's Nature and the universe up to in that matter ? It's her way , I gather , of securing the continuity of the species . 
But it doesn't , said Ewart . 
That's just it ! No. I have succumbed to dissipation down the hill there . 
And it was damned ugly and mean , and I hate having done it . 
And the continuity of the species Lord ! . 
And why does Nature make a man so infernally ready for drinks ? There's no sense in that anyhow . 
He sat up in bed , to put this question with the greater earnestness . 
And why has she given me a most violent desire towards sculpture and an equally violent desire to leave off work directly I begin it , eh ? . 
Let's have some more coffee . 
I put it to you , these things puzzle me , Ponderevo . 
They keep me in bed . 
He had an air of having saved up these difficulties for me for some time . 
He sat with his chin almost touching his knees , sucking at his pipe . 
That's what I mean , he went on , when I say life is getting on to me as extraordinarily queer , I don't see my game , nor why I was invited . 
And I don't make anything of the world outside either . 
What do you make of it ? London , I began . 
It's so enormous ! Isn't it ! And it's all up to nothing . 
You find chaps keeping grocers' shops why the DEVIL , Ponderevo , do they keep grocers' shops ? They all do it very carefully , very steadily , very meanly . 
You find people running about and doing the most remarkable things being policemen , for example , and burglars . 
They go about these businesses quite gravely and earnestly . 
I somehow can't go about mine . 
Is there any sense in it at all anywhere ? There must be sense in it , I said . 
The grocer's a grocer because , I suppose , he sees he comes in there . 
Feels that on the whole it amounts to a call . 
But the bother is I don't see where I come in at all . 
Do you ? Where you come in ? No , where you come in . 
Not exactly , yet , I said . 
I want to do some good in the world something something effectual , before I die . 
I have a sort of idea my scientific work I don't know . 
And I've got a sort of idea my sculpture , but now it is to come in and WHY , I've no idea at all . 
He hugged his knees for a space . 
That's what puzzles me , Ponderevo , no end . 
If you will look in that cupboard , he said , you will find an old respectable looking roll on a plate and a knife somewhere and a gallipot containing butter . 
You give them me and I'll make my breakfast , and then if you don't mind watching me paddle about at my simple toilet I'll get up . 
Then we'll go for a walk and talk about this affair of life further . 
And about Art and Literature and anything else that crops up on the way . 
Yes , that's the gallipot . 
Cockroach got in it ? Chuck him out damned interloper . 
So in the first five minutes of our talk , as I seem to remember it now , old Ewart struck the note that ran through all that morning's intercourse . 
To me it was a most memorable talk because it opened out quite new horizons of thought . 
I'd been working rather close and out of touch with Ewart's free gesticulating way . 
He was pessimistic that day and sceptical to the very root of things . 
He made me feel , too , how ready I was to take up commonplace assumptions . 
That crumpled into his pit of doubt and vanished . 
He brought out , sharply cut and certain , the immense effect of purposelessness in London that I was already indistinctly feeling . 
We found ourselves at last returning through Highgate Cemetery and Waterlow Park and Ewart was talking . 
Look at it there , he said , stopping and pointing to the great vale of London spreading wide and far . 
It's like a sea and we swim in it . 
And at last down we go , and then up we come washed up here . 
He swung his arms to the long slopes about us , tombs and headstones in long perspectives , in limitless rows . 
We're young , Ponderevo , but sooner or later our whitened memories will wash up on one of these beaches , on some such beach as this . 
George Ponderevo , F. R. S. , Sidney Ewart , R. I. P. Look at the rows of 'em ! He paused . 
Do you see that hand ? The hand , I mean , pointing upward , on the top of a blunted obelisk . 
See ? And I do those hearts afire and those pensive angel guardians with the palm of peace . 
Damned well I do 'em and damned cheap ! I'm a sweated victim , Ponderevo . 
That was the way of it , anyhow . 
I drank deep of talk that day we went into theology , into philosophy I had my first glimpse of socialism . 
I felt as though I had been silent in a silence since I and he had parted . 
At the thought of socialism Ewart's moods changed for a time to a sort of energy . 
After all , all this confounded vagueness might be altered . 
If you could get men to work together . 
It was a good talk that rambled through all the universe . 
I thought I was giving my mind refreshment , but indeed it was dissipation . 
All sorts of ideas , even now , carry me back as it were to a fountain head , to Waterlow Park and my resuscitated Ewart . 
It was with me that day as though I had lifted my head suddenly out of dull and immediate things and looked at life altogether . 
But it played the very devil with the copying up of my arrears of notes to which I had vowed the latter half of that day . 
After that reunion Ewart and I met much and talked much , and in our subsequent encounters his monologue was interrupted and I took my share . 
He had exercised me so greatly that I lay awake at nights thinking him over , and discoursed and answered him in my head as I went in the morning to the College . 
It's all so pointless , I said , because people are slack and because it's in the ebb of an age . 
Well , let's bring that about ! And there's a purpose . 
We must join some organisation , I said . 
We ought to do things . 
We ought to go and speak at street corners . 
I wonder why one doesn't want to , he said . 
Like many fantastic and ample talkers he was at bottom secretive , and he gave me a series of little shocks of discovery throughout our intercourse . 
Hullo ! said Ewart , as I came in . 
This is Milly , you know . 
She's been being a model she IS a model really . 
Ewart was always sketching this hair of hers and embarking upon clay statuettes of her that were never finished . 
She came to him , he went to her , they took holidays together in the country when certainly she sustained her fair share of their expenditure . 
I suspect him now even of taking money from her . 
But I see it and I think I understand it now . 
We ought to join on to other socialists , I said . 
Let's go and look at some first . 
He advised us to attend the next open meeting in Clifford's Inn and gave us the necessary data . 
We both contrived to get to the affair , and heard a discursive gritty paper on Trusts and one of the most inconclusive discussions you can imagine . 
Three quarters of the speakers seemed under some jocular obsession which took the form of pretending to be conceited . 
It was a sort of family joke , and as strangers to the family we did not like it . 
How many members are there in this Fabian Society of yours ? he asked . 
The little man became at once defensive in his manner . 
About seven hundred , he said perhaps eight . 
Like like the ones here ? The little man gave a nervous self satisfied laugh . 
I suppose they're up to sample , he said . 
The little man dropped out of existence and we emerged upon the Strand . 
These socialists have no sense of proportion , he said . 
What can you expect of them ? IV Ewart , as the embodiment of talk , was certainly a leading factor in my conspicuous failure to go on studying . 
Social theory in its first crude form of Democratic Socialism gripped my intelligence more and more powerfully . 
I argued in the laboratory with the man who shared my bench until we quarreled and did not speak and also I fell in love . 
Ewart had his share in that . 
I had to get me a mate . 
On my rare visits to the theatre I always became exalted , and found the actresses and even the spectators about me mysterious , attractive , creatures of deep interest and desire . 
I had a stronger and stronger sense that among these glancing , passing multitudes there was somewhere one who was for me . 
But really , as I found out afterwards , she never read . 
She used to come there to eat a bun in quiet . 
She stood out among the other girls very distinctly because they dressed more than she did , struck emphatic notes of colour , startled one by novelties in hats and bows and things . 
I've always hated the rustle , the disconcerting colour boundaries , the smart unnatural angles of women's clothes . 
Her plain black dress gave her a starkness . 
I do remember , though , how one afternoon I discovered the peculiar appeal of her form for me . 
I had been restless with my work and had finally slipped out of the Laboratory and come over to the Art Museum to lounge among the pictures . 
I came upon her in an odd corner of the Sheepshanks gallery , intently copying something from a picture that hung high . 
After that I know I sought to see her , felt a distinctive emotion at her presence , began to imagine things about her . 
I no longer thought of generalised womanhood or of this casual person or that . 
An accident brought us together . 
She was the sole other inside passenger . 
And when the time came to pay her fare , she became an extremely scared , disconcerted and fumbling young woman she had left her purse at home . 
Luckily I had some money . 
Thank you so much , she said in a pleasant soft voice and then less gracefully , Awfully kind of you , you know . 
I fancy I made polite noises . 
But just then I wasn't disposed to be critical . 
I was full of the sense of her presence her arm was stretched out over me as she moved past me , the gracious slenderness of her body was near me . 
The words we used didn't seem very greatly to matter . 
I had vague ideas of getting out with her and I didn't . 
That encounter , I have no doubt , exercised me enormously . 
I lay awake at night rehearsing it , and wondering about the next phase of our relationship . 
That took the form of the return of my twopence . 
It was so very kind of you , she said , the other day . 
I don't know what I should have done , Mr. I supplied my name . 
I knew , I said , you were a student here . 
I Well , anyhow , I knew you were here frequently . 
And I'm a student myself at the Consolidated Technical Schools . 
And I have no doubt that in substance it was singularly banal . 
Indeed I have an impression that all our early conversations were incredibly banal . 
We met several times in a manner half accidental , half furtive and wholly awkward . 
Mentally I didn't take hold of her . 
I never did take hold of her mentally . 
Her talk , I now know all too clearly , was shallow , pretentious , evasive . 
Only even to this day I don't remember it as in any way vulgar . 
She came to the museum to copy things , and this , I gathered , had something to do with some way of partially earning her living that I wasn't to inquire into . 
I told her things about myself , vain things that I felt might appeal to her , but that I learnt long afterwards made her think me conceited . 
We talked of books , but there she was very much on her guard and secretive , and rather more freely of pictures . 
I felt I had to stick to our acquaintance , flat as it was . 
Presently we should get through these irrelevant exterior things , and come to the reality of love beneath . 
I saw her in dreams released , as it were , from herself , beautiful , worshipful , glowing . 
She wasn't indeed beautiful to many people these things are beyond explaining . 
She had manifest defects of form and feature , and they didn't matter at all . 
Her complexion was bad , but I don't think it would have mattered if it had been positively unwholesome . 
I had extraordinarily limited , extraordinarily painful , desires . 
I longed intolerably to kiss her lips . 
V The affair was immensely serious and commanding to me . 
I don't remember that in these earlier phases I had any thought of turning back at all . 
Why do you wear collars like that ? she said , and sent me in pursuit of gentlemanly neckwear . 
I put off the encounter until the Sunday after , to get myself in order . 
I had a morning coat made and I bought a silk hat , and had my reward in the first glance of admiration she ever gave me . 
I wonder how many of my sex are as preposterous . 
I was , you see , abandoning all my beliefs , my conventions unasked . 
I was forgetting myself immensely . 
And there was a conscious shame in it all . 
Never a word did I breathe to Ewart to any living soul of what was going on . 
The windows were fortified against the intrusive eye by cheap lace curtains and an art pot upon an unstable octagonal table . 
I couldn't see a trace of the beauty I found in her in either parent , yet she somehow contrived to be like them both . 
Also , I remarked , they did it with an eye on Marion . 
They had wanted to thank me , they said , for the kindness to their daughter in the matter of the 'bus fare , and so accounted for anything unusual in their invitation . 
They posed as simple gentlefolk , a little hostile to the rush and gadding about of London , preferring a secluded and unpretentious quiet . 
When Marion got out the white table cloth from the sideboard drawer for tea , a card bearing the word APARTMENTS fell to the floor . 
Also he cultivated the little garden yard behind the house , and he had a small greenhouse with tomatoes . 
I wish I 'ad 'eat , he said . 
One can do such a lot with 'eat . 
But I suppose you can't 'ave everything you want in this world . 
Both he and Marion's mother treated her with a deference that struck me as the most natural thing in the world . 
Her own manner changed , became more authoritative and watchful , her shyness disappeared . 
She had taken a line of her own I gathered , draped the mirror , got the second hand piano , and broken her parents in . 
Her mother must once have been a pretty woman she had regular features and Marion's hair without its lustre , but she was thin and careworn . 
The aunt , Miss Ramboat , was a large , abnormally shy person very like her brother , and I don't recall anything she said on this occasion . 
I told them of the schools , of my lodgings , of Wimblehurst and my apprenticeship days . 
I dare say , she said , there's much to be said on both sides . 
I remember Marion's mother asked me what church I attended , and that I replied evasively . 
After tea there was music and we sang hymns . 
I discovered her mother sitting in the horsehair armchair and regarding us sentimentally . 
I went for a walk with Marion towards Putney Bridge , and then there was more singing and a supper of cold bacon and pie , after which Mr. Ramboat and I smoked . 
During that walk , I remember , she told me the import of her sketchings and copyings in the museum . 
I don't get much , said Marion , but it's interesting , and in the busy times we work all day . 
Of course the workgirls are dreadfully common , but we don't say much to them . 
And Smithie talks enough for ten . 
I quite understood the workgirls were dreadfully common . 
But I took them as part of the affair . 
Indeed , on the whole , I think they threw her up by an effect of contrast she was so obviously controlling them , so consciously superior to them . 
More and more of my time did I give to this passion that possessed me . 
I began to think chiefly of ways of pleasing Marion , of acts of devotion , of treats , of sumptuous presents for her , of appeals she would understand . 
If at times she was manifestly unintelligent , in her ignorance became indisputable , I told myself her simple instincts were worth all the education and intelligence in the world . 
And to this day I think I wasn't really wrong about her . 
One night I was privileged to meet her and bring her home from an entertainment at the Birkbeck Institute . 
We came back on the underground railway and we travelled first class that being the highest class available . 
We were alone in the carriage , and for the first time I ventured to put my arm about her . 
You mustn't , she said feebly . 
I love you , I whispered suddenly with my heart beating wildly , drew her to me , drew all her beauty to me and kissed her cool and unresisting lips . 
Love me ? she said , struggling away from me , Don't ! and then , as the train ran into a station , You must tell no one . 
You shouldn't have done that . 
Then two other people got in with us and terminated my wooing for a time . 
When we found ourselves alone together , walking towards Battersea , she had decided to be offended . 
I parted from her unforgiven and terribly distressed . 
When we met again , she told me I must never say that again . 
I had dreamt that to kiss her lips was ultimate satisfaction . 
But it was indeed only the beginning of desires . 
I told her my one ambition was to marry her . 
But , she said , you're not in a position What's the good of talking like that ? I stared at her . 
I mean to , I said . 
You can't , she answered . 
It will be years But I love you , I insisted . 
I love you , I said . 
Don't you love me ? She looked me in the face with grave irresponsive eyes . 
I don't know , she said . 
I LIKE you , of course . 
One has to be sensibl . 
I can remember now my sense of frustration by her unresilient reply . 
I should have perceived then that for her my ardour had no quickening fire . 
But how was I to know ? I had let myself come to want her , my imagination endowed her with infinite possibilities . 
I wanted her and wanted her , stupidly and instinctively . 
But , I said Love ! One has to be sensible , she replied . 
I like going about with you . 
Can't we keep as we are ? VI Well , you begin to understand my breakdown now , I have been copious enough with these apologia . 
My work got more and more spiritless , my behaviour degenerated , my punctuality declined I was more and more outclassed in the steady grind by my fellow students . 
Such supplies of moral energy as I still had at command shaped now in the direction of serving Marion rather than science . 
Even a girl got above me upon one of the lists . 
Then indeed I made it a point of honour to show by my public disregard of every rule that I really did not even pretend to try . 
I was astonished chiefly at my stupendous falling away from all the militant ideals of unflinching study I had brought up from Wimblehurst . 
I had displayed myself , as the Registrar put it , an unmitigated rotter . 
My failure to get marks in the written examination had only been equalled by the insufficiency of my practical work . 
I ask you , the Registrar had said , what will become of you when your scholarship runs out ? It certainly was an interesting question . 
I knew that for that sort of work , without a degree or any qualification , one earned hardly a bare living and had little leisure to struggle up to anything better . 
If only I had even as little as fifty pounds I might hold out in London and take my B. Sc . 
degree , and quadruple my chances ! My bitterness against my uncle returned at the thought . 
After all , he had some of my money still , or ought to have . 
That letter to my uncle was the nadir of my failure . 
Its remarkable consequences , which ended my student days altogether , I will tell in the next chapter . 
My mind was not inactive , even if it fed on forbidden food . 
I did not learn what my professors and demonstrators had resolved I should learn , but I learnt many things . 
My mind learnt to swing wide and to swing by itself . 
After all , those other fellows who took high places in the College examinations and were the professor's model boys haven't done so amazingly . 
Some are professors themselves , some technical experts not one can show things done such as I , following my own interest , have achieved . 
I have come nearer flying than any man has done . 
Even by the standards of worldly success I am , by the side of my fellow students , no failure . 
I had my F. R. S. by the time I was thirty seven , and if I am not very wealthy poverty is as far from me as the Spanish Inquisition . 
CHAPTER THE SECOND THE DAWN COMES , AND MY UNCLE APPEARS IN A NEW SILK HAT I Throughout my student days I had not seen my uncle . 
And I don't think that once in all that time I gave a thought to that mystic word of his that was to alter all the world for us . 
Yet I had not altogether forgotten it . 
It was simple and yet in some way arresting . 
I found myself repeating the word after I had passed it roused one's attention like the sound of distant guns . 
By Jove ! I cried , of course ! It's something . 
A patent medicine ! I wonder what he wants with me . 
In his Napoleonic way my uncle had omitted to give an address . 
His telegram had been handed in at Farringdon Road , and after complex meditations I replied to Ponderevo , Farringdon Road , trusting to the rarity of our surname to reach him . 
Where are you ? I asked . 
His reply came promptly A , Raggett Street , E. C. The next day I took an unsanctioned holiday after the morning's lecture . 
I discovered my uncle in a wonderfully new silk hat oh , a splendid hat ! with a rolling brim that went beyond the common fashion . 
It was decidedly too big for him that was its only fault . 
It was stuck on the back of his head , and he was in a white waistcoat and shirt sleeves . 
He welcomed me with a forgetfulness of my bitter satire and my hostile abstinence that was almost divine . 
His glasses fell off at the sight of me . 
His round inexpressive eyes shone brightly . 
He held out his plump short hand . 
Here we are , George ! What did I tell you ? Needn't whisper it now , my boy . 
Behind him was a further partition and a door inscribed ABSOLUTELY PRIVATE NO ADMISSION , thereon . 
This partition was of wood painted the universal chocolate , up to about eight feet from the ground , and then of glass . 
All these were evidently placed on a shelf just at the level to show . 
He shut the door after me carefully . 
Well , here we are ! he said . 
It's afloat , he said , as I stood puzzling at this . 
Not so much a bark as a solution , but still it does ! Here we are at it ! By the by ! Half a mo' ! I've thought of a thing . 
He whisked out , leaving me to examine this nuclear spot at leisure while his voice became dictatorial without . 
The den struck me as in its large grey dirty way quite unprecedented and extraordinary . 
I saw nothing for it but to sit down in the chair and await my uncle's explanations . 
I remarked a frock coat with satin lapels behind the door there was a dignified umbrella in the corner and a clothes brush and a hat brush stood on a side table . 
My uncle returned in five minutes looking at his watch a gold watch Gettin' lunch time , George , he said . 
You'd better come and have lunch with me ! How's Aunt Susan ? I asked . 
Never saw her so larky . 
This has bucked her up something wonderful all this . 
All what ? Tono Bungay . 
What is Tono Bungay ? I asked . 
Tell you after lunch , George , he said . 
He hailed a passing cab superbly , and the cabman was infinitely respectful . 
Instead of being about four inches taller , I felt at least the same size as he , and very much slenderer . 
Still more respectful waiters relieved him of the new hat and the dignified umbrella , and took his orders for our lunch . 
He gave them with a fine assurance . 
He nodded to several of the waiters . 
They know me , George , already , he said . 
Live place ! Eye for coming men ! The detailed business of the lunch engaged our attention for a while , and then I leant across my plate . 
And NOW ? said I. It's the secret of vigour . 
Didn't you read that label ? Yes , but It's selling like hot cakes . 
And what is it ? I pressed . 
Well , said my uncle , and then leant forward and spoke softly under cover of his hand , It's nothing more or less than . 
, which is my idea ! Modern touch ! There you are ! He reverted to the direction of our lunch . 
My uncle smoked a similar cigar in an habituated manner , and he looked energetic and knowing and luxurious and most unexpectedly a little bounder , round the end of it . 
It was just a trivial flaw upon our swagger , perhaps that we both were clear our cigars had to be mild . 
I felt that we should strike an unbiased observer as a couple of very deep and wily and developing and repulsive persons . 
I want to let you into this puff George , said my uncle round the end of his cigar . 
His voice grew lower and more cunning . 
He made explanations that to my inexperience did not completely explain . 
I played 'em off one against the other , said my uncle . 
I took his point in an instant . 
He had gone to each of them in turn and said the others had come in . 
I put up four hundred pounds , said my uncle , myself and my all . 
And you know He assumed a brisk confidence . 
I hadn't five hundred pence . 
At least For a moment he really was just a little embarrassed . 
I DID he said , produce capital . 
You see , there was that trust affair of yours I ought , I suppose in strict legality to have put that straight first . 
It was a bold thing to do , said my uncle , shifting the venue from the region of honour to the region of courage . 
You've got it's a sort of dismal grit . 
Bark your shins , rouse you , and you'll go ! You'd rush any position you had a mind to rush . 
I know a bit about character , George trust me . 
You've got He clenched his hands and thrust them out suddenly , and at the same time said , with explosive violence , Wooosh ! Yes . 
You have ! The way you put away that Latin at Wimblehurst I've never forgotten it . 
Wo oo oo osh ! Your science and all that ! Wo oo oo osh ! I know my limitations . 
Well , I can create this business , but I can't make it go . 
I'm too voluminous I'm a boiler over , not a simmering stick at it . 
You keep on HOTTING UP AND HOTTING UP . 
That's you , steady and long and piling up , then , wo oo oo oo osh . 
Come in and stiffen these niggers . 
Teach them that wo oo oo oo osh . 
There you are ! That's what I'm after . 
You ! Nobody else believes you're more than a boy . 
Come right in with me and be a man . 
Eh , George ? Think of the fun of it a thing on the go a Real Live Thing ! Wooshing it up ! Making it buzz and spin ! Whoo oo oo . 
He made alluring expanding circles in the air with his hand . 
Eh ? His proposal , sinking to confidential undertones again , took more definite shape . 
I was to give all my time and energy to developing and organising . 
You shan't write a single advertisement , or give a single assurance he declared . 
I can do all that . 
And the telegram vas no flourish I was to have three hundred a year . 
Three hundred a year certain , anyhow ! It was an enormous income to me . 
For a moment I was altogether staggered . 
Could there be that much money in the whole concern ? I looked about me at the sumptuous furniture of Schafer's Hotel . 
No doubt there were many such incomes . 
My head was spinning with unwonted Benedictine and Burgundy . 
Let me go back and look at the game again , I said . 
Let me see upstairs and round about . 
What do you think of it all ? my uncle asked at last . 
Well , for one thing , I said , why don't you have those girls working in a decently ventilated room ? Apart from any other consideration , they'd work twice as briskly . 
And they ought to cover the corks before labelling round the bottle Why ? said my uncle . 
Because they sometimes make a mucker of the cork job , and then the label's wasted . 
Come and change it , George , said my uncle , with sudden fervour Come here and make a machine of it . 
Make it all slick , and then make it woosh . 
Oh ! I know you can . 
II I seem to remember very quick changes of mind after that lunch . 
The muzzy exaltation of the unaccustomed stimulants gave way very rapidly to a model of pellucid and impartial clairvoyance which is one of my habitual mental states . 
We came downstairs again into that inner room which pretended to be a scientific laboratory through its high glass lights , and indeed was a lurking place . 
And just then he seemed much laxer in his muscles and not quite as alertly quick in his movements . 
But he evidently wasn't aware of the degenerative nature of his changes as he sat there , looking suddenly quite little under my eyes . 
It's as straight as It's fair trading ! So much the worse for trading , I said . 
It's the sort of thing everybody does . 
After all , there's no harm in the stuff and it may do good . 
It might do a lot of good giving people confidence , f'rinstance , against an epidemic . 
See ? Why not ? don't see where your swindle comes in . 
It's a thing you either see or don't see . 
I'd like to know what sort of trading isn't a swindle in its way . 
Everybody who does a large advertised trade is selling something common on the strength of saying it's uncommon . 
Look at Chickson they made him a baronet . 
You put Faith in 'em . 
I grant our labels are a bit emphatic . 
No good setting people against the medicine . 
Tell me a solitary trade nowadays that hasn't to be emphatic . 
It's the modern way ! Everybody understands it everybody allows for it . 
But the world would be no worse and rather better , if all this stuff of yours was run down a conduit into the Thames . 
Don't see that , George , at all . 
'Mong other things , all our people would be out of work . 
Commerce ! A romantic exchange of commodities and property . 
See ? You must look at these things in a broad light . 
Look at the wood and forget the trees ! And hang it , George ! we got to do these things ! There's no way unless you do . 
What do YOU mean to do anyhow ? There's ways of living , I said , Without either fraud or lying . 
You're a bit stiff , George . 
There's no fraud in this affair , I'll bet my hat . 
But what do you propose to do ? Go as chemist to some one who IS running a business , and draw a salary without a share like I offer you . 
Much sense in that ! It comes out of the swindle as you call it just the same . 
Some businesses are straight and quiet , anyhow supply a sound article that is really needed , don't shout advertisements . 
There you're behind the times . 
The last of that sort was sold up 'bout five years ago . 
Well , there's scientific research . 
They just keep you to make discoveries , and if they fancy they'll use 'em they do . 
How much a year , George ? How much a year ? I suppose you must respect Carlyle ! Well , you take Carlyle's test solvency . 
See what the world pays teachers and discoverers and what it pays business men ! That shows the ones it really wants . 
There's a justice in these big things , George , over and above the apparent injustice . 
I tell you it wants trade . 
It's Trade that makes the world go round ! Argosies ! Venice ! Empire ! My uncle suddenly rose to his feet . 
You think it over , George . 
You think it over ! And come up on Sunday to the new place we got rooms in Gower Street now and see your aunt . 
It isn't me I ask you to help . 
It's the commerce of your country . 
And we want you badly . 
I tell you straight , I know my limitations . 
You could take this place , you could make it go ! I can see you at it looking rather sour . 
Woosh is the word , George . 
I got to dictate a letter , he said , ending the smile , and vanished into the outer room . 
III I didn't succumb without a struggle to my uncle's allurements . 
Indeed , I held out for a week while I contemplated life and my prospects . 
It was a crowded and muddled contemplation . 
It invaded even my sleep . 
What was I going to do with life ? I remember certain phases of my indecisions very well . 
I remember going home from our talk . 
I went down Farringdon Street to the Embankment because I thought to go home by Holborn and Oxford Street would be too crowded for thinking . 
That piece of Embankment from Blackfriars to Westminster still reminds me of that momentous hesitation . 
You know , from first to last , I saw the business with my eyes open , I saw its ethical and moral values quite clearly . 
Never for a moment do I remember myself faltering from my persuasion that the sale of Tono Bungay was a thoroughly dishonest proceeding . 
It would cost about sevenpence the large bottle to make , including bottling , and we were to sell it at half a crown plus the cost of the patent medicine stamp . 
A thing that I will confess deterred me from the outset far more than the sense of dishonesty in this affair , was the supreme silliness of the whole concern . 
My early beliefs still clung to me . 
My inclination to refuse the whole thing increased rather than diminished at first as I went along the Embankment . 
In my uncle's presence there had been a sort of glamour that had prevented an outright refusal . 
One felt that he was silly and wild , but in some way silly and wild after the fashion of the universe . 
After all , one must live somehow . 
I astonished him and myself by temporising . 
No , said I , I'll think it over ! And as I went along the embankment the first effect was all against my uncle . 
I saw a man come charging out of Palace Yard the policeman touched his helmet to him with a hat and a bearing astonishingly like my uncle's . 
It certainly had an air of being something more than a dream . 
Yes , I thought it over thoroughly enough . 
He was frightfully right after all . 
Pecunnia non olet , a Roman emperor said that . 
Morris and these others played with it wittingly it gave a zest , a touch of substance , to their aesthetic pleasures . 
Never would there be good faith enough to bring such things about . 
They knew it every one , except a few young fools , knew it . 
As I crossed the corner of St . 
James's Park wrapped in thought , I dodged back just in time to escape a prancing pair of greys . 
A stout , common looking woman , very magnificently dressed , regarded me from the carriage with a scornful eye . 
No doubt , thought I , a pill vendor's wife . 
Running through all my thoughts , surging out like a refrain , was my uncle's master stroke , his admirable touch of praise Make it all slick and then make it go Woosh . 
I know you can ! Oh ! I KNOW you can ! IV Ewart as a moral influence was unsatisfactory . 
I had made up my mind to put the whole thing before him , partly to see how he took it , and partly to hear how it sounded when it was said . 
I asked him to come and eat with me in an Italian place near Panton Street where one could get a curious , interesting , glutting sort of dinner for eighteen pence . 
He came with a disconcerting black eye that he wouldn't explain . 
Not so much a black eye , he said , as the aftermath of a purple patch . 
What's your difficulty ? I'll tell you with the salad , I said . 
But as a matter of fact I didn't tell him . 
His utterances roved wide and loose . 
The reality of life , my dear Ponderevo , I remember him saying very impressively and punctuating with the nut crackers as he spoke , is Chromatic Conflict . 
Get hold of that and let all these other questions go . 
The Socialist will tell you one sort of colour and shape is right , the Individualist another . 
What does it all amount to ? What DOES it all amount to ? NOTHING ! I have no advice to give anyone , except to avoid regrets . 
Be yourself , seek after such beautiful things as your own sense determines to be beautiful . 
And don't mind the headache in the morning . 
For what , after all , is a morning , Ponderevo ? It isn't like the upper part of a day ! He paused impressively . 
What Rot ! I cried , after a confused attempt to apprehend him . 
Isn't it ! And it's my bedrock wisdom in the matter ! Take it or leave it , my dear George take it or leave it . 
He put down the nut crackers out of my reach and lugged a greasy looking note book from his pocket . 
I'm going to steal this mustard pot , he said . 
I made noises of remonstrance . 
Only as a matter of design . 
I've got to do an old beast's tomb . 
I'll put it on his corners , four mustard pots . 
I dare say he'd be glad of a mustard plaster now to cool him , poor devil , where he is . 
But anyhow , here goes ! V It came to me in the small hours that the real moral touchstone for this great doubting of mind was Marion . 
I lay composing statements of my problem and imagined myself delivering them to her and she , goddess like and beautiful giving her fine , simply worded judgment . 
You see , it's just to give one's self over to the Capitalistic System , I imagined myself saying in good Socialist jargon it's surrendering all one's beliefs . 
We MAY succeed , we MAY grow rich , but where would the satisfaction be ? Then she would say , No ! That wouldn't be right . 
But the alternative is to wait ! Then suddenly she would become a goddess . 
She would turn upon me frankly and nobly , with shining eyes , with arms held out . 
No , she would say , we love one another . 
Nothing ignoble shall ever touch us . 
At the sight of her my nocturnal eloquence became preposterous and all the moral values altered altogether . 
I had waited for her outside the door of the Parsian robe establishment in Kensington High Street and walked home with her thence . 
I remember how she emerged into the warm evening light and that she wore a brown straw hat that made her , for once not only beautiful but pretty . 
I like that hat , I said by way of opening and she smiled her rare delightful smile at me . 
I love you , I said in an undertone , as we jostled closer on the pavement . 
She shook her head forbiddingly , but she still smiled . 
Then Be sensible ! The High Street pavement is too narrow and crowded for conversation and we were some way westward before we spoke again . 
Look here , I said I want you , Marion . 
Don't you understand ? I want you . 
Now ! she cried warningly . 
I do not know if the reader will understand how a passionate lover , an immense admiration and desire , can be shot with a gleam of positive hatred . 
Such a gleam there was in me at the serene self complacency of that NOW ! It vanished almost before I felt it . 
I found no warning in it of the antagonisms latent between us . 
Marion , I said , this isn't a trifling matter to me . 
I love you I would die to get you . 
Don't you care ? But what is the good ? You don't care , I cried . 
You don't care a rap ! You know I care , she answered . 
Marion , I asked when we got together again , I tell you I want you to marry me . 
Why not ? We can't marry in the street . 
We could take our chance ! I wish you wouldn't go on talking like this . 
What is the good ? She suddenly gave way to gloom . 
It's no good marrying she said . 
When one's alone one has a little pocket money anyhow , one can go about a little . 
But think of being married and no money , and perhaps children you can't be sure . 
Look here , Marion , I said abruptly , what would you marry on ? What IS the good ? she began . 
Would you marry on three hundred a year ? She looked at me for a moment . 
That's six pounds a week , she said . 
One could manage on that , easily . 
Smithie's brother No , he only gets two hundred and fifty . 
He married a typewriting girl . 
Will you marry me if I get three hundred a year ? She looked at me again , with a curious gleam of hope . 
I held out my hand and looked her in the eyes . 
It's a bargain , I said . 
She hesitated and touched my hand for an instant . 
It's silly , she remarked as she did so . 
It means really we're She paused . 
Yes ? said I. Engaged . 
You'll have to wait years . 
What good can it do you ? Not so many years . 
For a moment she brooded . 
Then she glanced at me with a smile , half sweet , half wistful , that has stuck in my memory for ever . 
I like you ! she said . 
I shall like to be engaged to you . 
VI At last I went to the address my uncle had given me in Gower Street , and found my aunt Susan waiting tea for him . 
Directly I came into the room I appreciated the change in outlook that the achievement of Tono Bungay had made almost as vividly as when I saw my uncle's new hat . 
The furniture of the room struck upon my eye as almost stately . 
And I was shown in by a real housemaid with real tails to her cap , and great quantities of reddish hair . 
There was my aunt too looking bright and pretty , in a blue patterned tea wrap with bows that seemed to me the quintessence of fashion . 
She was sitting in a chair by the open window with quite a pile of yellow labelled books on the occasional table beside her . 
The carpet was thick , and a spice of adventure was given it by a number of dyed sheep skin mats . 
Hello ! said my aunt as I appeared . 
It's George ! Shall I serve the tea now , Mem ? said the real housemaid , surveying our greeting coldly . 
Not till Mr. Ponderevo comes , Meggie , said my aunt , and grimaced with extraordinary swiftness and virulence as the housemaid turned her back . 
Meggie she calls herself , said my aunt as the door closed , and left me to infer a certain want of sympathy . 
You're looking very jolly , aunt , said I. What do you think of all this old Business he's got ? asked my aunt . 
Seems a promising thing , I said . 
I suppose there is a business somewhere ? Haven't you seen it ? 'Fraid I'd say something AT it George , if I did . 
So he won't let me . 
It came on quite suddenly . 
Brooding he was and writing letters and sizzling something awful like a chestnut going to pop . 
Then he came home one day saying Tono Bungay till I thought he was clean off his onion , and singing what was it ? 'I'm afloat , I'm afloat , I guessed . 
And saying our fortunes were made . 
It's a swell house , George . 
Three pounds a week for the rooms . 
And he says the Business'll stand it . 
She looked at me doubtfully . 
Either do that or smash , I said profoundly . 
We discussed the question for a moment mutely with our eyes . 
My aunt slapped the pile of books from Mudie's . 
I've been having such a Go of reading , George . 
You never did ! What do you think of the business ? I asked . 
Well , they've let him have money , she said , and thought and raised her eyebrows . 
It's been a time , she went on . 
The flapping about ! Me sitting doing nothing and him on the go like a rocket . 
But he wants you , George he wants you . 
Says he can make a splash but can't keep on . 
Says if you don't come in everything will smash But you are coming in ? She paused and looked at me . 
Well You don't say you won't come in ! But look here , aunt , I said , do you understand quite ? . 
There's no law against selling quack medicine that I know of , said my aunt . 
She thought for a minute and became unusually grave . 
It's our only chance , George , she said . 
There came the slamming of a door , and a loud bellowing from the next apartment through the folding doors . 
Here er Shee Rulk lies Poo Tom Bo oling . 
Silly old Concertina ! Hark at him , George ! She raised her voice . 
Don't sing that , you old Walrus , you ! Sing 'I'm afloat ! One leaf of the folding doors opened and my uncle appeared . 
Hullo , George ! Come along at last ? Gossome tea cake , Susan ? Thought it over George ? he said abruptly . 
Yes , said I. Coming in ? I paused for a last moment and nodded yes . 
Why couldn't you say that a week ago ? I've had false ideas about the world , I said . 
Oh ! they don't matter now ! Yes , I'll come , I'll take my chance with you , I won't hesitate again . 
I stuck to that resolution for seven long years . 
We made Tono Bungay hum ! It brought us wealth , influence , respect , the confidence of endless people . 
It was my uncle's genius that did it . 
No doubt he needed me , I was , I will admit , his indispensable right hand but his was the brain to conceive . 
He wrote every advertisement some of them even he sketched . 
You must remember that his were the days before the Time took to enterprise and the vociferous hawking of that antiquated Encyclopedia . 
Many people who are MODERATELY well think they are QUITE well , was one of his early efforts . 
The jerks in capitals were , DO NOT NEED DRUGS OR MEDICINE , and SIMPLY A PROPER REGIMEN TO GET YOU IN TONE . 
One was warned against the chemist or druggist who pushed much advertised nostrums on one's attention . 
That trash did more harm than good . 
Like Mountain Air in the Veins . 
The penetrating trio of questions Are you bored with your Business ? Are you bored with your Dinner . 
Are you bored with your Wife ? that , too , was in our Gower Street days . 
That was his design I happen still to have got by me the first sketch he made for it . 
I have reproduced it here with one or two others to enable the reader to understand the mental quality that initiated these familiar ornaments of London . 
These things were only incidental in my department . 
Often we worked far into the night sometimes until dawn . 
People think a happy notion is enough to make a man rich , that fortunes can be made without toil . 
can testify I doubt if J. D. Rockefeller in the early days of Standard Oil , worked harder than we did . 
We worked far into the night and we also worked all day . 
Does me good , George , to see the chaps behind their counters like I was once , he explained . 
By all modern standards the business was , as my uncle would say , absolutely bona fide . 
We sold our stuff and got the money , and spent the money honestly in lies and clamour to sell more stuff . 
into Wales , a great field always for a new patent medicine , and then into Lancashire . 
The romance of modern commerce , George ! my uncle would say , rubbing his hands together and drawing in air through his teeth . 
The romance of modern commerce , eh ? Conquest . 
We subjugated England and Wales we rolled over the Cheviots with a special adaptation containing eleven per cent . 
of absolute alcohol Tono Bungay Thistle Brand . 
We also had the Fog poster adapted to a kilted Briton in a misty Highland scene . 
Under the shadow of our great leading line we were presently taking subsidiary specialties into action Tono Bungay Hair Stimulant was our first supplement . 
Then came Concentrated Tono Bungay for the eyes . 
That didn't go , but we had a considerable success with the Hair Stimulant . 
We broached the subject , I remember , in a little catechism beginning Why does the hair fall out ? Because the follicles are fagged . 
What are the follicles ? . 
And we also did admirable things with our next subsidiaries , Tono Bungay Lozenges , and Tono Bungay Chocolate . 
These we urged upon the public for their extraordinary nutritive and recuperative value in cases of fatigue and strain . 
You can GO for twenty four hours , we declared , on Tono Bungay Chocolate . 
We didn't say whether you could return on the same commodity . 
Then brought in regiments of school teachers , revivalist ministers , politicians and the like . 
I really do believe there was an element of kick in the strychnine in these lozenges , especially in those made according to our earlier formula . 
For we altered all our formulae invariably weakening them enormously as sales got ahead . 
In a little while so it seems to me now we were employing travelers and opening up Great Britain at the rate of a hundred square miles a day . 
We had a lot of trouble finding our travelers in the end at least half of them were Irish Americans , a wonderful breed for selling medicine . 
She conceived a high opinion of Tono Bungay and took it in all forms and large quantities so long as I knew her . 
It didn't seem to do her any harm . 
And she kept the girls going quite wonderfully . 
My uncle's last addition to the Tono Bungay group was the Tono Bungay Mouthwash . 
I set down these bare facts . 
To me they are all linked with the figure of my uncle . 
In some of the old seventeenth and early eighteenth century prayerbooks at Bladesover there used to be illustrations with long scrolls coming out of the mouths of the wood cut figures . 
I got a notion ! George ! I should put myself into the same picture . 
Best setting for us , I think , would be the Beckenham snuggery , because there we worked hardest . 
It would be the lamplit room of the early nineties , and the clock upon the mantel would indicate midnight or later . 
We would be sitting on either side of the fire , I with a pipe , my uncle with a cigar or cigarette . 
There would be glasses standing inside the brass fender . 
Our expressions would be very grave . 
George , whad'yer think of T. B. for sea sickness ? he would say . 
No good that I can imagine . 
Oom ! No harm TRYING , George . 
I would suck my pipe . 
Unless we sold our stuff specially at the docks . 
Might do a special at Cook's office , or in the Continental Bradshaw . 
It 'ud give 'em confidence , George . 
He would Zzzz , with his glasses reflecting the red of the glowing coals . 
No good hiding our light under a Bushel , he would remark . 
I think that his average attitude was one of kindly , almost parental , toleration . 
You've a hard nature , George , he said . 
You're too ready to run things down . 
How can one TELL ? How can one venture to TELL ! . 
I suppose any creative and developing game would have interested me in those years . 
At any rate , I know I put as much zeal into this Tono Bungay as any young lieutenant could have done who suddenly found himself in command of a ship . 
It was extraordinarily interesting to me to figure out the advantage accruing from this shortening of the process or that , and to weigh it against the capital cost of the alteration . 
I made a sort of machine for sticking on the labels , that I patented to this day there is a little trickle of royalties to me from that . 
This was an immense economy of space for the inner sanctum . 
For the bottling we needed special taps , and these , too , I invented and patented . 
We had a sort of endless band of bottles sliding along an inclined glass trough made slippery with running water . 
and our silent partners , the drug wholesalers and the printing people and the owner of that group of magazines and newspapers , to ask with honest confidence for L , . 
Those silent partners were remarkably sorry , I know , that they had not taken larger shares and given us longer credit when the subscriptions came pouring in . 
At times use and wont certainly blinded me . 
He was immensely proud of the flotation . 
They've never been given such value , he said , for a dozen years . 
It's just on all fours with the rest of things , he remarked only more so . 
You needn't think you're anything out of the way . 
I remember one disquisition very distinctly . 
It was just after Ewart had been to Paris on a mysterious expedition to rough in some work for a rising American sculptor . 
for his State Capitol , and he needed help . 
Ewart had returned with his hair cut en brosse and with his costume completely translated into French . 
Silly clothes , aren't they ? he said at the sight of my startled eye . 
I don't know why I got'm . 
They seemed all right over there . 
What I like about it all , Ponderevo , is its poetry . 
That's where we get the pull of the animals . 
No animal would ever run a factory like this . 
One remembers the Beaver , of course . 
And it's not your poetry only . 
It's the poetry of the customer too . 
Poet answering to poet soul to soul . 
Health , Strength and Beauty in a bottle the magic philtre ! Like a fairy tale . 
Think of the little clerks and jaded women and overworked people . 
People overstrained with wanting to do , people overstrained with wanting to be . 
People , in fact , overstrained . 
The real trouble of life , Ponderevo , isn't that we exist that's a vulgar error the real trouble is that we DON'T really exist and we want to . 
That's what this in the highest sense just stands for ! The hunger to be for once really alive to the finger tips ! . 
Nobody wants to do and be the things people are nobody . 
That isn't existing ! That's sus substratum . 
None of us want to be what we are , or to do what we do . 
Except as a sort of basis . 
What do we want ? You know . 
There was a just perceptible listening hang in the work about us . 
Come downstairs , I interrupted , we can talk better there . 
I can talk better here , he answered . 
He was just going on , but fortunately the implacable face of Mrs. Hampton Diggs appeared down the aisle of bottling machines . 
All right , he said , I'll come . 
In the little sanctum below , my uncle was taking a digestive pause after his lunch and by no means alert . 
His presence sent Ewart back to the theme of modern commerce , over the excellent cigar my uncle gave him . 
He behaved with the elaborate deference due to a business magnate from an unknown man . 
What I was pointing out to your nephew , sir , said Ewart , putting both elbows on the table , was the poetry of commerce . 
He doesn't , you know , seem to see it at all . 
Whad I tell 'im , he said round his cigar . 
You and I , sir , can talk , if you will permit me , as one artist to another . 
It's advertisement has done it . 
Advertisement has revolutionised trade and industry it is going to revolutionise the world . 
The old merchant used to tote about commodities the new one creates values . 
He takes something that isn't worth anything or something that isn't particularly worth anything and he makes it worth something . 
Talking of mustard , sir , I was at Clapham Junction the other day , and all the banks are overgrown with horse radish that's got loose from a garden somewhere . 
You know what horseradish is grows like wildfire spreads spreads . 
I stood at the end of the platform looking at the stuff and thinking about it . 
'Like fame , I thought , 'rank and wild where it isn't wanted . 
Why don't the really good things in life grow like horseradish ? I thought . 
My mind went off in a peculiar way it does from that to the idea that mustard costs a penny a tin I bought some the other day for a ham I had . 
It came into my head that it would be ripping good business to use horseradish to adulterate mustard . 
I had a sort of idea that I could plunge into business on that , get rich and come back to my own proper monumental art again . 
And then I said , 'But why adulterate ? I don't like the idea of adulteration . 
Shabby , said my uncle , nodding his head . 
See ? I very nearly started the business straight away , only something happened . 
Jolly good ideer , said my uncle . 
That really is an ideer , George , he said . 
Take shavin's , again ! You know that poem of Longfellow's , sir , that sounds exactly like the first declension . 
What is it ? 'Marr's a maker , men say ! My uncle nodded and gurgled some quotation that died away . 
'Jolly good poem , George , he said in an aside to me . 
Well , it's about a carpenter and a poetic Victorian child , you know , and some shavin's . 
The child made no end out of the shavin's . 
I believe I'm right , sir , in saying they're sawdust . 
No ! said my uncle , removing his cigar as far as I can find out it's really grain , spoilt grain . 
I've been going into that . 
Well , there you are ! said Ewart . 
It carried out my case just as well . 
Your modern commerce is no more buying and selling than sculpture . 
It's rescue work ! It takes all sorts of fallen commodities by the hand and raises them . 
You turn water into Tono Bungay . 
Tono Bungay's all right , said my uncle , suddenly grave . 
We aren't talking of Tono Bungay . 
Your nephew , sir , is hard he wants everything to go to a sort of predestinated end he's a Calvinist of Commerce . 
Offer him a dustbin full of stuff he calls it refuse passes by on the other side . 
Now YOU , sir you'd make cinders respect themselves . 
My uncle regarded him dubiously for a moment . 
But there was a touch of appreciation in his eye . 
Might make 'em into a sort of sanitary brick , he reflected over his cigar end . 
He delivered the last words in a shout , with his hairy hand flourished in the air . 
Damn clever fellow , said my uncle , after he had one . 
I know a man when I see one . 
But drunk , I should say . 
But that only makes some chap brighter . 
If he WANTS to do that poster , he can . 
That ideer of his about the horseradish . 
There's something in that , George . 
I'm going to think over that . 
I may say at once that my poster project came to nothing in the end , though Ewart devoted an interesting week to the matter . 
He let his unfortunate disposition to irony run away with him . 
It certainly wouldn't have sold a case , though he urged it on me one cheerful evening on the ground that it would arouse curiosity . 
The legend , Health , Beauty , Strength , below , gave a needed point to his parody . 
This he hung up in the studio over the oil shop , with a flap of brown paper by way of a curtain over it to accentuate its libellous offence . 
For , of course , I married Marion . 
I didn't , as a matter of fact , marry her until a year after Tono Bungay was thoroughly afloat , and then only after conflicts and discussions of a quite strenuous sort . 
By that time I was twenty four . 
It seems the next thing to childhood now . 
We were both in certain directions unusually ignorant and simple we were temperamentally antagonistic , and we hadn't I don't think we were capable of an idea in common . 
There can be no doubt of my passion for her . 
In her I had discovered woman desired . 
The nights I have lain awake on account of her , writhing , biting my wrists in a fever of longing ! . 
But that was only the beginning of our difference . 
To her that meant the beginning of a not unpleasant little secrecy , an occasional use of verbal endearments , perhaps even kisses . 
It was something to go on indefinitely , interfering in no way with her gossiping spells of work at Smithie's . 
To me it was a pledge to come together into the utmost intimacy of soul and body so soon as we could contrive it . 
I don't know if it will strike the reader that I am setting out to discuss the queer , unwise love relationship and my bungle of a marriage with excessive solemnity . 
But to me it seems to reach out to vastly wider issues than our little personal affair . 
I've thought over my life . 
In these last few years I've tried to get at least a little wisdom out of it . 
And in particular I've thought over this part of my life . 
I'm enormously impressed by the ignorant , unguided way in which we two entangled ourselves with each other . 
Because we were no more than samples of the common fate . 
I have tried to indicate something of my own sexual development in the preceding chapter . 
Everything came obscurely , indefinitely , perplexingly and all I knew of law or convention in the matter had the form of threatenings and prohibitions . 
Except through the furtive , shameful talk of my coevals at Goudhurst and Wimblehurst , I was not even warned against quite horrible dangers . 
My ideas were made partly of instinct , partly of a romantic imagination , partly woven out of a medley of scraps of suggestion that came to me haphazard . 
All sorts of ideas were jumbled up in me and never a lucid explanation . 
And the make up of Marion's mind in the matter was an equally irrational affair . 
Her training had been one , not simply of silences , but suppressions . 
An enormous force of suggestion had so shaped her that the intense natural fastidiousness of girlhood had developed into an absolute perversion of instinct . 
For all that is cardinal in this essential business of life she had one inseparable epithet horrid . 
Without any such training she would have been a shy lover , but now she was an impossible one . 
For the rest she had derived , I suppose , partly from the sort of fiction she got from the Public Library , and partly from the workroom talk at Smithie's . 
There was nothing horrid about it in any fiction she had read . 
The man gave presents , did services , sought to be in every way delightful . 
The woman went out with him , smiled at him , was kissed by him in decorous secrecy , and if he chanced to offend , denied her countenance and presence . 
Usually she did something for his good to him , made him go to church , made him give up smoking or gambling , smartened him up . 
Quite at the end of the story came a marriage , and after that the interest ceased . 
That was the tenor of Marion's fiction but I think the work table conversation at Smithie's did something to modify that . 
There was a case of stealing at Smithie's , and many tears . 
Smithie I met before we were married , and afterwards she became a frequent visitor to our house at Ealing . 
It was one of the intense minor irritations of my married life that Smithie's whirlwind chatter seemed to me to have far more influence with Marion than anything I had to say . 
Before all things I coveted her grip upon Marion's inaccessible mind . 
In the workroom at Smithie's , I gathered , they always spoke of me demurely as A Certain Person . 
I was rumoured to be dreadfully clever , and there were doubts not altogether without justification of the sweetness of my temper . 
She could be shocked at anything , she misunderstood everything , and her weapon was a sulky silence that knitted her brows , spoilt her mouth and robbed her face of beauty . 
Well , if we can't agree , I don't see why you should go on talking , she used to say . 
That would always enrage me beyond measure . 
Or , I'm afraid I'm not clever enough to understand that . 
We would contrive semi surreptitious walks on Sunday , and part speechless with the anger of indefinable offences . 
But there we differed a little . 
I wanted to be accessible to St . 
Paul's or Cannon Street Station , and she had set her mind quite resolutely upon Eating . 
It wasn't by any means quarreling all the time , you understand . 
Her worst offence for me was an occasional excursion into the Smithie style of dressing , debased West Kensington . 
For she had no sense at all of her own beauty . 
She had no comprehension whatever of beauty of the body , and she could slash her beautiful lines to rags with hat brims and trimmings . 
I was a young beast for her to have married a hound beast . 
With her it was my business to understand and control and I exacted fellowship , passion . 
We became engaged , as I have told we broke it off and joined again . 
We went through a succession of such phases . 
We had no sort of idea what was wrong with us . 
Presently we were formally engaged . 
because my mother was a servant , and afterwards her mother took to kissing me , and I bought a ring . 
But the speechless aunt , I gathered , didn't approve having doubts of my religiosity . 
Whenever we were estranged we could keep apart for days and to begin with , every such separation was a relief . 
And then I would want her a restless longing would come upon me . 
I would think of the flow of her arms , of the soft , gracious bend of her body . 
I would lie awake or dream of a transfigured Marion of light and fire . 
It was indeed Dame Nature driving me on to womankind in her stupid , inexorable way but I thought it was the need of Marion that troubled me . 
In the long run that became a fixed idea . 
It entangled my will and my pride I told myself I was not going to be beaten . 
I hardened to the business . 
I think , as a matter of fact , my real passion for Marion had waned enormously long before we were married , that she had lived it down by sheer irresponsiveness . 
When I felt sure of my three hundred a year she stipulated for delay , twelve months' delay , to see how things would turn out . 
There were times when she seemed simply an antagonist holding out irritatingly against something I had to settle . 
Moreover , I began to be greatly distracted by the interest and excitement of Tono Bungay's success , by the change and movement in things , the going to and fro . 
I went off to the little home at Walham Green , and made Marion come with me to Putney Common . 
I'm going to ask your daughter to marry me ! I said . 
I think we've been waiting long enough . 
I don't approve of long engagements either , said her father . 
But Marion will have her own way about it , anyhow . 
Seen this new powdered fertiliser ? I went in to talk to Mrs. Ramboat . 
She'll want time to get her things , said Mrs. Ramboat . 
I and Marion sat down together on a little seat under some trees at the top of Putney Hill , and I came to my point abruptly . 
Look here , Marion , I said , are you going to marry me or are you not ? She smiled at me . 
Well , she said , we're engaged aren't we ? That can't go on for ever . 
Will you marry me next week ? She looked me in the face . 
We can't , she said . 
You promised to marry me when I had three hundred a year . 
She was silent for a space . 
Can't we go on for a time as we are ? We COULD marry on three hundred a year . 
But it means a very little house . 
They manage on two hundred and fifty , but that's very little . 
She says they have a semi detached house almost on the road , and hardly a bit of garden . 
And the wall to next door is so thin they hear everything . 
When her baby cries they rap . 
And people stand against the railings and talk . 
Can't we wait ? You're doing so well . 
An extraordinary bitterness possessed me at this invasion of the stupendous beautiful business of love by sordid necessity . 
I answered her with immense restraint . 
Which means five hundred a year . 
Yes , well , you see , I told my uncle I wanted that , and I've got it . 
Got what ? Five hundred pounds a year . 
Five hundred pounds ! I burst into laughter that had more than a taste of bitterness . 
She scrutinised me a moment . 
You've done this as a surprise ! she said , and laughed at my laughter . 
She had become radiant , and that made me radiant , too . 
Yes , I said , yes , and laughed no longer bitterly . 
She clasped her hands and looked me in the eyes . 
She was so pleased that I forgot absolutely my disgust of a moment before . 
I forgot that she had raised her price two hundred pounds a year and that I had bought her at that . 
Come ! I said , standing up let's go towards the sunset , dear , and talk about it all . 
Do you know this is a most beautiful world , an amazingly beautiful world , and when the sunset falls upon you it makes you into shining gold . 
No , not gold into golden glass . 
Into something better that either glass or gold . 
And for all that evening I wooed her and kept her glad . 
She made me repeat my assurances over again and still doubted a little . 
We furnished that double fronted house from attic it ran to an attic to cellar , and created a garden . 
Do you know Pampas Grass ? said Marion . 
You shall have Pampas Grass , I declared . 
And there were moments as we went in imagination about that house together , when my whole being cried out to take her in my arms now . 
On that aspect of life I touched very lightly in that talk , very lightly because I had had my lessons . 
She promised to marry me within two months' time . 
Shyly , reluctantly , she named a day , and next afternoon , in heat and wrath , we broke it off again for the last time . 
I refused flatly to have a normal wedding with wedding cake , in white favours , carriages and the rest of it . 
It dawned upon me suddenly in conversation with her and her mother , that this was implied . 
I blurted out my objection forthwith , and this time it wasn't any ordinary difference of opinion it was a row . 
I don't remember a quarter of the things we flung out in that dispute . 
I remember her mother reiterating in tones of gentle remonstrance But , George dear , you must have a cake to send home . 
I think we all reiterated things . 
I seem to remember a refrain of my own A marriage is too sacred a thing , too private a thing , for this display . 
It didn't occur to me then ! How painful it was to Marion for these people to witness my rebellion . 
Marriage is too private a thing I shouldn't feel married , said Mrs. Ramboat . 
Look here , Marion , I said we are going to be married at a registry office . 
I don't believe in all these fripperies and superstitions , and I won't submit to them . 
I've agreed to all sorts of things to please you . 
What's he agreed to ? said her father unheeded . 
I can't marry at a registry office , said Marion , sallow white . 
Very well , I said . 
I can't marry at a registry office . 
Very well , I said , standing up , white and tense and it amazed me , but I was also exultant then we won't marry at all . 
She leant forward over the table , staring blankly . 
But presently her half averted face began to haunt me as she had sat at the table , and her arm and the long droop of her shoulder . 
III The next day I did an unexampled thing . 
I sent a telegram to my uncle , Bad temper not coming to business , and set off for Highgate and Ewart . 
He was actually at work on a bust of Millie , and seemed very glad for any interruption . 
Ewart , you old Fool , I said , knock off and come for a day's gossip . 
There's a sympathetic sort of lunacy about you . 
Let's go to Staines and paddle up to Windsor . 
Girl ? said Ewart , putting down a chisel . 
That was all I told him of my affair . 
I've got no money , he remarked , to clear up ambiguity in my invitation . 
It's not worth it , was the burthen of the voice . 
You'd better get yourself a Millie , Ponderevo , and then you wouldn't feel so upset . 
No , I said decidedly , that's not my way . 
A thread of smoke ascended from Ewart for a while , like smoke from an altar . 
Everything's a muddle , and you think it isn't . 
Nobody knows where we are because , as a matter of fact we aren't anywhere . 
Are women property or are they fellow creatures ? Or a sort of proprietary goddesses ? They're so obviously fellow creatures . 
You believe in the goddess ? No , I said , that's not my idea . 
What is your idea ? Well H'm , said Ewart , in my pause . 
My idea , I said , is to meet one person who will belong to me to whom I shall belong body and soul . 
No half gods ! Wait till she comes . 
If she comes at all . 
We must come to each other young and pure . 
There's no such thing as a pure person or an impure person . 
This was so manifestly true that it silenced me altogether . 
And if you belong to her and she to you , Ponderevo which end's the head ? I made no answer except an impatient oh ! For a time we smoked in silence . 
Did I tell you , Ponderevo , of a wonderful discovery I've made ? Ewart began presently . 
No , I said , what is it ? There's no Mrs. Grundy . 
No ? No ! Practically not . 
I've just thought all that business out . 
She's merely an instrument , Ponderevo . 
Rather lean and out of sorts . 
With bunchy black whiskers and a worried eye . 
'They must be kept apart ! Starts out for an absolute obliteration of everything absolute separations . 
One side of the road for men , and the other for women , and a hoarding without posters between them . 
Every boy and girl to be sewed up in a sack and sealed , just the head and hands and feet out until twenty one . 
Music abolished , calico garments for the lower animals ! Sparrows to be suppressed ab so lutely . 
When Grundy tells her things are shocking , she's shocked pink and breathless . 
She goes about trying to conceal her profound sense of guilt behind a haughty expression . 
Grundy , meanwhile , is in a state of complete whirlabout . 
Long lean knuckly hands pointing and gesticulating ! 'They're still thinking of things thinking of things ! It's dreadful . 
They get it out of books . 
Why can't we have pure art with the anatomy all wrong and pure and nice and pure fiction pure poetry , instead of all this stuff with allusions allusions ? . 
That's Grundy in one mood , Ponderevo . 
That's one of the lies we tell about women . 
Simple ! Woman ARE simple ! They take on just what men tell 'em . 
Ewart meditated for a space . 
Just exactly as it's put to them , he said , and resumed the moods of Mr. Grundy . 
Then you get old Grundy in another mood . 
Ever caught him nosing , Ponderevo ? Mad with the idea of mysterious , unknown , wicked , delicious things . 
Wow ! Things he mustn't do ! . 
Any one who knows about these things , knows there's just as much mystery and deliciousness about Grundy's forbidden things as there is about eating ham . 
Jolly nice if it's a bright morning and you're well and hungry and having breakfast in the open air . 
Jolly unattractive if you're off colour . 
But Grundy's covered it all up and hidden it and put mucky shades and covers over it until he's forgotten it . 
Begins to fester round it in his mind . 
Has dreadful struggles with himself about impure thoughts . 
Then you set Grundy with hot ears , curious in undertones . 
Grundy on the loose , Grundy in a hoarse whisper and with furtive eyes and convulsive movements making things indecent . 
Evolving in dense vapours indecency ! Grundy sins . 
Oh , yes , he's a hypocrite . 
Sneaks round a corner and sins ugly . 
It's Grundy and his dark corners that make vice , vice ! We artists we have no vices . 
And then he's frantic with repentance . 
And wants to be cruel to fallen women and decent harmless sculptors of the simple nude like me and so back to his panic again . 
Mrs. Grundy , I suppose , doesn't know he sins , I remarked . 
No ? I'm not so sure . 
But , bless her heart she's a woman . 
He makes you sick with the Harm he's trying not to see in it . 
And that's why everything's wrong , Ponderevo . 
Grundy , damn him ! stands in the light , and we young people can't see . 
We catch his gusts of panic , his disease of nosing , his greasiness . 
So we don't adolescence we blunder up to sex . 
Dare dare to look and he may dirt you for ever ! The girls are terror stricken to silence by his significant whiskers , by the bleary something in his eyes . 
Suddenly Ewart , with an almost Jack in the box effect , sat up . 
He's about us everywhere , Ponderevo , he said , very solemnly . 
Sometimes sometimes I think he is in our blood . 
He regarded me for my opinion very earnestly , with his pipe in the corner of his mouth . 
You're the remotest cousin he ever had , I said . 
There are complications , I admit . 
We've grown up under the terror of Grundy and that innocent but docile and yes formidable lady , his wife . 
I don't know how far the complications aren't a disease , a sort of bleaching under the Grundy shadow . 
It is possible there are things I have still to learn about women . 
Man has eaten of the Tree of Knowledge . 
You can't have your cake and eat it . 
We're in for knowledge let's have it plain and straight . 
I should begin , I think , by abolishing the ideas of decency and indecency . 
Grundy would have fits ! I injected . 
Grundy , Ponderevo , would have cold douches publicly if the sight was not too painful three times a day . 
But I don't think , mind you , that I should let the sexes run about together . 
No. The fact behind the sexes is sex . 
It trails about even in the best mixed company . 
The men get showing off and quarrelling and the women . 
I suppose the ancestral males have competed for the ancestral females ever since they were both some sort of grubby little reptile . 
You aren't going to alter that in a thousand years or so . 
Never should you have a mixed company , never except with only one man or only one woman . 
How would that be ? . 
How to manage it ? Some rule of etiquette , perhaps . 
Then his long hand went out in weird gestures . 
I seem to see I seem to see a sort of City of Women , Ponderevo . 
A walled enclosure good stone mason's work a city wall , high as the walls of Rome , going about a garden . 
Dozens of square miles of garden trees fountains arbours lakes . 
Lawns on which the women play , avenues in which they gossip , boats . 
Women like that sort of thing . 
Any woman who's been to a good eventful girls' school lives on the memory of it for the rest of her life . 
It's one of the pathetic things about women the superiority of school and college to anything they get afterwards . 
And this city garden of women will have beautiful places for music , places for beautiful dresses , places for beautiful work . 
Everything a woman can want . 
And no man except to do rough work , perhaps ever comes in . 
Built into the wall and a little balcony . 
And there she will go and look out , when the mood takes her , and all round the city there will be a broad road and seats and great shady trees . 
The women will lean over and look at the men and smile and talk to them as they fancy . 
And each woman will have this she will have a little silken ladder she can let down if she chooses if she wants to talk closer . 
The men would still be competing . 
But they'd have to abide by the women's decisions . 
I raised one or two difficulties , and for a while we played with this idea . 
Ewart , I said , this is like Doll's Island . 
Suppose , I reflected , an unsuccessful man laid siege to a balcony and wouldn't let his rival come near it ? Move him on , said Ewart , by a special regulation . 
As one does organ grinders . 
And you could forbid it make it against the etiquette . 
No life is decent without etiquette . 
And people obey etiquette sooner than laws . 
H'm , I said , and was struck by an idea that is remote in the world of a young man . 
How about children ? I asked in the City ? Girls are all very well . 
But boys , for example grow up . 
They mustn't grow up inside . 
They'd turn out the boys when they were seven . 
The father must come with a little pony and a little gun and manly wear , and take the boy away . 
Then one could come afterwards to one's mother's balcony . 
It must be fine to have a mother . 
The father and the son . 
This is all very pretty in its way , I said at last , but it's a dream . 
Let's come back to reality . 
He wouldn't even reply to my tentatives for a time . 
While I was talking just now , he remarked presently , I had a quite different idea . 
What ? For a masterpiece . 
Like the busts of the Caesars . 
Only not heads , you know . 
We don't see the people who do things to us nowadays . 
How will you do it , then ? Hands a series of hands ! The hands of the Twentieth Century . 
Some day some one will discover it go there see what I have done , and what is meant by it . 
See it where ? On the tombs . 
Like Rodin's great Hand you know the thing ! IV I forget how many days intervened between that last breaking off of our engagement and Marion's surrender . 
I rushed off to Walham Green that evening to give back all she had given me , to beat her altogether at giving . 
She was extraordinarily gentle and generous that time , I remember , and when at last I left her , she kissed me very sweetly . 
We were married with all the customary incongruity . 
I gave perhaps after a while not altogether ungrudgingly and what I gave , Marion took , with a manifest satisfaction . 
After all , I was being sensible . 
The table had a great display of chrysanthemums , and there was orange blossom in the significant place and a wonderful cake . 
We also circulated upwards of a score of wedges of that accompanied by silver printed cards in which Marion's name of Ramboat was stricken out by an arrow in favour of Ponderevo . 
We had a little rally of Marion's relations , and several friends and friends' friends from Smithie's appeared in the church and drifted vestry ward . 
I produced my aunt and uncle a select group of two . 
The effect in that shabby little house was one of exhilarating congestion . 
She went through all this strange ritual of an English wedding with a sacramental gravity that I was altogether too young and egotistical to comprehend . 
Marion , seeing me despondent had the unusual enterprise to whisper to me that I looked lovely I knew too well I didn't look myself . 
I looked like a special coloured supplement to Men's Wear , or The Tailor and Cutter , Full Dress For Ceremonial Occasions . 
I had even the disconcerting sensations of an unfamiliar collar . 
I felt lost in a strange body , and when I glanced down myself for reassurance , the straight white abdomen , the alien legs confirmed that impression . 
My uncle was my best man , and looked like a banker a little banker in flower . 
He wore a white rose in his buttonhole . 
He wasn't , I think , particularly talkative . 
At least I recall very little from him . 
George he said once or twice , this is a great occasion for you a very great occasion . 
He spoke a little doubtfully . 
You see I had told him nothing about Marion until about a week before the wedding both he and my aunt had been taken altogether by surprise . 
They couldn't , as people say , make it out . 
My aunt was intensely interested , much more than my uncle it was then , I think , for the first time that I really saw that she cared for me . 
She got me alone , I remember , after I had made my announcement . 
Now , George , she said , tell me everything about her . 
Why didn't you tell ME at least before ? I was surprised to find how difficult it was to tell her about Marion . 
Then is she beautiful ? she asked at last . 
I don't know what you'll think of her , I parried . 
I think Yes ? I think she might be the most beautiful person in the world . 
And isn't she ? To you ? Of course , I said , nodding my head . 
It dawned on me that I wasn't hiding anything from her at all . 
If I had not been so grim in spirit , I think I should have found much of my wedding amusing . 
I remember a lot of ridiculous detail that still declines to be funny in my memory . 
The officiating clergyman had a cold , and turned his n's to d's , and he made the most mechanical compliment conceivable about the bride's age when the register was signed . 
Every bride he had ever married had had it , one knew . 
And two middle aged spinsters , cousins of Marion's and dressmakers at Barking , stand out . 
They wore marvellously bright and gay blouses and dim old skirts , and had an immense respect for Mr. Ramboat . 
Now I go round it all , look into its details , generalise about its aspects . 
I'm interested , for example , to square it with my Bladesover theory of the British social scheme . 
There a marriage is a public function with a public significance . 
There the church is to a large extent the gathering place of the community , and your going to be married a thing of importance to every one you pass on the road . 
It is a change of status that quite legitimately interests the whole neighbourhood . 
But in London there are no neighbours , nobody knows , nobody cares . 
An absolute stranger in an office took my notice , and our banns were proclaimed to ears that had never previously heard our names . 
The clergyman , even , who married us had never seen us before , and didn't in any degree intimate that he wanted to see us again . 
Neighbours in London ! The Ramboats did not know the names of the people on either side of them . 
As I waited for Marion before we started off upon our honeymoon flight , Mr. Ramboat , I remember , came and stood beside me and stared out of the window . 
There was a funeral over there yesterday , he said , by way of making conversation , and moved his head at the house opposite . 
Quite a smart affair it was with a glass 'earse . 
Nobody made way for us , nobody cared for us the driver of an omnibus jeered for a long time we crawled behind an unamiable dust cart . 
The irrelevant clatter and tumult gave a queer flavour of indecency to this public coming together of lovers . 
We seemed to have obtruded ourselves shamelessly . 
The crowd that gathered outside the church would have gathered in the same spirit and with greater alacrity for a street accident . 
At Charing Cross we were going to Hastings the experienced eye of the guard detected the significance of our unusual costume and he secured us a compartment . 
She regarded me gravely , timidly . 
You're not cross ? she asked . 
Cross ! Why ? At having it all proper . 
My dear Marion ! said I , and by way of answer took and kissed her white gloved , leather scented hand . 
I fell into a reverie about my aunt , and realised as if it were a new discovery , that I cared for her very greatly . 
I was acutely sorry I had not told her earlier of my marriage . 
But you will not want to hear the history of my honeymoon . 
I have told all that was needed to serve my present purpose . 
Thus and thus it was the Will in things had its way with me . 
I think of this thing and love her , of that and hate her of a hundred aspects in which I can now see her with an unimpassioned sympathy . 
I cannot tell to the full how Marion thwarted me and failed in that life of intimate emotions which is the kernel of love . 
That life of intimate emotions is made up of little things . 
A beautiful face differs from an ugly one by a difference of surfaces and proportions that are sometimes almost infinitesimally small . 
I find myself setting down little things and little things none of them do more than demonstrate those essential temperamental discords I have already sought to make clear . 
Some readers will understand to others I shall seem no more than an unfeeling brute who couldn't make allowances . 
Every love romance I read seemed to mock our dull intercourse , every poem , every beautiful picture reflected upon the uneventful succession of grey hours we had together . 
I think our real difference was one of aesthetic sensibility . 
I do still recall as the worst and most disastrous aspect of all that time , her absolute disregard of her own beauty . 
It's the pettiest thing to record , I know , but she could wear curl papers in my presence . 
It was her idea , too , to wear out her old clothes and her failures at home when no one was likely to see her no one being myself . 
She allowed me to accumulate a store of ungracious and slovenly memories . 
All our conceptions of life differed . 
I remember how we differed about furniture . 
She pursued some limited , clearly seen and experienced ideal that excluded all other possibilities . 
There wasn't a place where one could sit and read in the whole house . 
My books went upon shelves in the dining room recess . 
And we had a piano though Marion's playing was at an elementary level . 
You know , it was the cruelest luck for Marion that I , with my restlessness , my scepticism , my constantly developing ideas , had insisted on marriage with her . 
She had no faculty of growth or change she had taken her mould , she had set in the limited ideas of her peculiar class . 
Let me hasten over this history of disappointments and separation . 
I might tell of waxings and waning of love between us , but the whole was waning . 
Sometimes she would do things for me , make me a tie or a pair of slippers , and fill me with none the less gratitude because the things were absurd . 
She ran our home and our one servant with a hard , bright efficiency . 
She was inordinately proud of house and garden . 
Always , by her lights , she did her duty by me . 
Presently the rapid development of Tono Bungay began to take me into the provinces , and I would be away sometimes for a week together . 
This she did not like it left her dull , she said , but after a time she began to go to Smithie's again and to develop an independence of me . 
At Smithie's she was now a woman with a position she had money to spend . 
She would take Smithie to theatres and out to lunch and talk interminably of the business , and Smithie became a sort of permanent weekender with us . 
Also Marion got a spaniel and began to dabble with the minor arts , with poker work and a Kodak and hyacinths in glasses . 
She called once on a neighbour . 
He irritated me beyond measure . 
You think too much , he would say . 
If you was to let in a bit with a spade , you might soon 'ave that garden of yours a Vision of Flowers . 
That's better than thinking , George . 
Or in a torrent of exasperation , I CARN'T think , George , why you don't get a bit of glass 'ere . 
This sunny corner you c'd do wonders with a bit of glass . 
And in the summer time he never came in without performing a sort of conjuring trick in the hall , and taking cucumbers and tomatoes from unexpected points of his person . 
All out o' MY little bit , he'd say in exemplary tones . 
He left a trail of vegetable produce in the most unusual places , on mantel boards , sideboards , the tops of pictures . 
Heavens ! how the sudden unexpected tomato could annoy me ! . 
It did much to widen our estrangement that Marion and my aunt failed to make friends , became , by a sort of instinct , antagonistic . 
My aunt , to begin with , called rather frequently , for she was really anxious to know Marion . 
But Marion received her with that defensive suspiciousness of the shy person , thinking only of the possible criticism of herself and my aunt , perceiving this , became nervous and slangy . 
She says such queer things , said Marion once , discussing her . 
But I suppose it's witty . 
Yes , I said it IS witty . 
If I said things like she does The queer things my aunt said were nothing to the queer things she didn't say . 
She was on the very verge of speech . 
Then suddenly she caught my expression , and shrank up like a cat that has been discovered looking at the milk . 
Then a wicked impulse took her . 
Didn't say an old word , George , she insisted , looking me full in the eye . 
You're a dear , I said , not to , as Marion came lowering into the room to welcome her . 
But I felt extraordinarily like a traitor to the India rubber plant , I suppose for all that nothing had been said . 
Your aunt makes Game of people , was Marion's verdict , and , open mindedly I suppose it's all right . 
Several times we went to the house in Beckenham for lunch , and once or twice to dinner . 
My aunt did her peculiar best to be friends , but Marion was implacable . 
The gaps between my aunt's visits grew wider and wider . 
My married existence became at last like a narrow deep groove in the broad expanse of interests in which I was living . 
I went about the world I met a great number of varied personalities I read endless books in trains as I went to and fro . 
I developed social relationships at my uncle's house that Marion did not share . 
The seeds of new ideas poured in upon me and grew in me . 
Those early and middle years of one's third decade are , I suppose , for a man the years of greatest mental growth . 
They are restless years and full of vague enterprise . 
She gave me always a cooler welcome , I think , until she seemed entirely apathetic . 
I never asked myself then what heartaches she might hide or what her discontents might be . 
I would come home hoping nothing , expecting nothing . 
This was my fated life , and I had chosen it . 
We drifted apart wider and wider the gap opened . 
The mere unreciprocated physical residue of my passion remained an exasperation between us . 
No children came to save us . 
Marion had acquired at Smithie's a disgust and dread of maternity . 
All that was the fruition and quintessence of the horrid elements in life , a disgusting thing , a last indignity that overtook unwary women . 
I doubt indeed a little if children would have saved us we should have differed so fatally about their upbringing . 
Altogether , I remember my life with Marion as a long distress , now hard , now tender . 
It was in those days that I first became critical of my life and burdened with a sense of error and maladjustment . 
My circumstances had an air of finality , and I asked myself in vain why I had forced myself into them . 
VI The end of our intolerable situation came suddenly and unexpectedly , but in a way that I suppose was almost inevitable . 
My alienated affections wandered , and I was unfaithful to Marion . 
I won't pretend to extenuate the quality of my conduct . 
I was a young and fairly vigorous male all my appetite for love had been roused and whetted and none of it had been satisfied by my love affair and my marriage . 
I had pursued an elusive gleam of beauty to the disregard of all else , and it had failed me . 
It had faded when I had hoped it would grow brighter . 
I despaired of life and was embittered . 
And things happened as I am telling . 
I don't draw any moral at all in the matter , and as for social remedies , I leave them to the social reformer . 
I've got to a time of life when the only theories that interest me are generalisations about realities . 
To go to our inner office in Raggett Street I had to walk through a room in which the typists worked . 
They were the correspondence typists our books and invoicing had long since overflowed into the premises we had had the luck to secure on either side of us . 
My eye would seek her as I went through on business things I dictated some letters to her and so discovered she had pretty , soft looking hands with pink nails . 
Once or twice , meeting casually , we looked one another for the flash of a second in the eyes . 
But it was enough in the mysterious free masonry of sex to say essential things . 
We had a secret between us . 
One day I came into Raggett Street at lunch time and she was alone , sitting at her desk . 
She glanced up as I entered , and then became very still , with a downcast face and her hands clenched on the table . 
I walked right by her to the door of the inner office , stopped , came back and stood over her . 
We neither of us spoke for quite a perceptible time . 
Is that one of the new typewriters ? I asked at last for the sake of speaking . 
She looked up at me without a word , with her face flushed and her eyes alight , and I bent down and kissed her lips . 
She leant back to put an arm about me , drew my face to her and kissed me again and again . 
I lifted her and held her in my arms . 
She gave a little smothered cry to feel herself so held . 
Never before had I known the quality of passionate kisses . 
Somebody became audible in the shop outside . 
We started back from one another with flushed faces and bright and burning eyes . 
We can't talk here , I whispered with a confident intimacy . 
Where do you go at five ? Along the Embankment to Charing Cross , she answered as intimately . 
None of the others go that way . 
About half past five ? Yes , half past five . 
The door from the shop opened , and she sat down very quickly . 
I'm glad , I said in a commonplace voice , that these new typewriters are all right . 
I went into the inner office and routed out the paysheet in order to find her name Effie Rink . 
And did no work at all that afternoon . 
I fretted about that dingy little den like a beast in a cage . 
When presently I went out , Effie was working with an extraordinary appearance of calm and there was no look for me at all . 
We met and had our talk that evening , a talk in whispers when there was none to overhear we came to an understanding . 
It was strangely unlike any dream of romance I had ever entertained . 
VII I came back after a week's absence to my home again a changed man . 
I had lived out my first rush of passion for Effie , had come to a contemplation of my position . 
I had gauged Effie's place in the scheme of things , and parted from her for a time . 
She was back in her place at Raggett Street after a temporary indisposition . 
Indeed , if anything , I felt as if I had vindicated some right that had been in question . 
I came back to Marion with no sense of wrong doing at all with , indeed , a new friendliness towards her . 
I don't know how it may be proper to feel on such occasions that is how I felt . 
I followed her in our drawing room , standing beside the tall lamp stand that half filled the bay as though she had just turned from watching for me at the window . 
There was something in her pale face that arrested me . 
She looked as if she had not been sleeping . 
She did not come forward to greet me . 
You've come home , she said . 
As I wrote to you . 
She stood very still , a dusky figure against the bright window . 
Where have you been ? she asked . 
East Coast , I said easily . 
She paused for a moment . 
I KNOW , she said . 
It was the most amazing moment in any life . 
I didn't dream , she began . 
How could you do such a thing ? It seemed a long interval before either of us spoke another word . 
Who knows about it ? I asked at last . 
Confound Cromer ! Yes ! How could you bring yourself I felt a spasm of petulant annoyance at this unexpected catastrophe . 
I should like to wring Smithie's brother's neck , I said . 
Marion spoke in dry , broken fragments of sentences . 
I'd always thought that anyhow you couldn't deceive me . 
I suppose all men are horrid about this . 
It doesn't strike me as horrid . 
It seems to me the most necessary consequence and natural thing in the world . 
I became aware of some one moving about in the passage , and went and shut the door of the room , then I walked back to the hearthrug and turned . 
It's rough on you , I said . 
But I didn't mean you to know . 
You've never cared for me . 
I've had the devil of a time . 
Why should you mind ? She sat down in a draped armchair . 
I HAVE cared for you , she said . 
I suppose , she said , SHE cares for you ? I had no answer . 
Where is she now ? Oh ! does it matter to you ? . 
Look here , Marion ! This this I didn't anticipate . 
I didn't mean this thing to smash down on you like this . 
But , you know , something had to happen . 
I'm sorry sorry to the bottom of my heart that things have come to this between us . 
But indeed , I'm taken by surprise . 
I don't know where I am I don't know how we got here . 
Things took me by surprise . 
I found myself alone with her one day . 
It seemed stupid to go back . 
And besides why should I have gone back ? Why should I ? From first to last , I've hardly thought of it as touching you . 
Damn ! She scrutinised my face , and pulled at the ball fringe of the little table beside her . 
To think of it , she said . 
I don't believe I can ever touch you again . 
We kept a long silence . 
I was only beginning to realise in the most superficial way the immense catastrophe that had happened between us . 
Enormous issues had rushed upon us . 
I felt unprepared and altogether inadequate . 
There came a rush of stupid expressions to my mind that my rising sense of the supreme importance of the moment saved me from saying . 
The gap of silence widened until it threatened to become the vast memorable margin of some one among a thousand trivial possibilities of speech that would vex our relations for ever . 
Our little general servant tapped at the door Marion always liked the servant to tap and appeared . 
Tea , M'm , she said and vanished , leaving the door open . 
I will go upstairs , said I , and stopped . 
I will go upstairs I repeated , and put my bag in the spare room . 
We remained motionless and silent for a few seconds . 
Mother is having tea with us to day , Marion remarked at last , and dropped the worried end of ball fringe and stood up slowly . 
And so , with this immense discussion of our changed relations hanging over us , we presently had tea with the unsuspecting Mrs. Ramboat and the spaniel . 
Mrs. Ramboat was too well trained in her position to remark upon our somber preoccupation . 
She kept a thin trickle of talk going , and told us , I remember , that Mr. Ramboat was troubled about his cannas . 
They don't come up and they won't come up . 
He's been round and had an explanation with the man who sold him the bulbs and he's very heated and upset . 
The spaniel was a great bore , begging and doing small tricks first at one and then at the other of us . 
Neither of us used his name . 
You see we had called him Miggles , and made a sort of trio in the baby talk of Mutney and Miggles and Ming . 
VIII Then presently we resumed our monstrous , momentous dialogue . 
I can't now make out how long that dialogue went on . 
It spread itself , I know , in heavy fragments over either three days or four . 
I remember myself grouped with Marion , talking sitting on our bed in her room , talking standing in our dining room , saving this thing or that . 
Twice we went for long walks . 
We discussed the fact that we two were no longer lovers never before had we faced that . 
For those days only , there were no pretences , I made no concessions to her nor she to me we concealed nothing , exaggerated nothing . 
We had done with pretending . 
We had it out plainly and soberly with each other . 
Mood followed mood and got its stark expression . 
Of course there was quarreling between us , bitter quarreling , and we said things to one another long pent up things that bruised and crushed and cut . 
You love her ? she asked once , and jerked that doubt into my mind . 
I struggled with tangled ideas and emotions . 
I don't know what love is . 
It's all sorts of things it's made of a dozen strands twisted in a thousand ways . 
But you want her ? You want her now when you think of her ? Yes , I reflected . 
I want her right enough . 
And me ? Where do I come in ? I suppose you come in here . 
Well , but what are you going to do ? Do ! I said with the exasperation of the situation growing upon me . 
What do you want me to do ? As I look back upon all that time across a gulf of fifteen active years I find I see it with an understanding judgment . 
I see it as if it were the business of some one else indeed of two other people intimately known yet judged without passion . 
Her ruling motive at first was , I think , an indignant and outraged pride . 
She asked me categorically to give up Effie , and I , full of fresh and glowing memories , absolutely refused . 
It's too late , Marion , I said . 
It can't be done like that . 
Then we can't very well go on living together , she said . 
Can we ? Very well , I deliberated if you must have it so . 
Well , can we ? Can you stay in this house ? I mean if I go away ? I don't know . 
I don't think I could . 
Then what do you want ? Slowly we worked our way from point to point , until at last the word divorce was before us . 
If we can't live together we ought to be free , said Marion . 
I don't know anything of divorce , I said if you mean that . 
I don't know how it is done . 
I shall have to ask somebody or look it up . 
Perhaps , after all , it is the thing to do . 
We may as well face it . 
We began to talk ourselves into a realisation of what our divergent futures might be . 
I came back on the evening of that day with my questions answered by a solicitor . 
We can't as a matter of fact , I said , get divorced as things are . 
Apparently , so far as the law goes you've got to stand this sort of thing . 
It's silly but that is the law . 
However , it's easy to arrange a divorce . 
In addition to adultery there must be desertion or cruelty . 
To establish cruelty I should have to strike you , or something of that sort , before witnesses . 
That's impossible but it's simple to desert you legally . 
I have to go away from you that's all . 
I can go on sending you money and you bring a suit , what is it ? for Restitution of Conjugal Rights . 
The Court orders me to return . 
Then you can go on to divorce me . 
You get a Decree Nisi , and once more the Court tries to make me come back . 
If we don't make it up within six months and if you don't behave scandalously the Decree is made absolute . 
That's the end of the fuss . 
That's how one gets unmarried . 
It's easier , you see , to marry than unmarry . 
And then how do I live ? What becomes of me ? You'll have an income . 
From a third to a half of my present income more if you like I don't mind three hundred a year , say . 
You've got your old people to keep and you'll need all that . 
And then then you'll be free ? Both of us . 
And all this life you've hated I looked up at her wrung and bitter face . 
I haven't hated it , I lied , my voice near breaking with the pain of it all . 
Have you ? IX The perplexing thing about life is the irresolvable complexity of reality , of things and relations alike . 
Every wrong done has a certain justice in it , and every good deed has dregs of evil . 
As for us , young still , and still without self knowledge , resounded a hundred discordant notes in the harsh angle of that shock . 
We were furiously angry with each other , tender with each other , callously selfish , generously self sacrificing . 
I remember Marion saying innumerable detached things that didn't hang together one with another , that contradicted one another , that were , nevertheless , all in their places profoundly true and sincere . 
I see them now as so many vain experiments in her effort to apprehend the crumpled confusions of our complex moral landslide . 
Some I found irritating beyond measure . 
I answered her sometimes quite abominably . 
Of course , she would say again and again , my life has been a failure . 
I've besieged you for three years , I would retort asking it not to be . 
You've done as you pleased . 
If I've turned away at last Or again she would revive all the stresses before our marriage . 
How you must hate me ! I made you wait . 
Well now I suppose you have your revenge . 
Then she would try over the aspects of our new separated lives . 
I ought to earn my own living , she would insist . 
I want to be quite independent . 
Perhaps I shall try a poultry farm and bees . 
You won't mind at first my being a burden . 
Afterwards We've settled all that , I said . 
I suppose you will hate me anyhow . 
There were times when she seemed to regard our separation with absolute complacency , when she would plan all sorts of freedoms and characteristic interests . 
I shall go out a lot with Smithie , she said . 
And once she said an ugly thing that I did indeed hate her for . 
that I cannot even now quite forgive her . 
Your aunt will rejoice at all this . 
She never cared for me . 
She had long tearful confidences with Marion , I know , sympathetic close clingings . 
There were moments when only absolute speechlessness prevented her giving me a stupendous talking to I could see it in her eye . 
And at last through all this welter , like a thing fated and altogether beyond our control , parting came to Marion and me . 
I hardened my heart , or I could not have gone . 
For at the last it came to Marion that she was parting from me for ever . 
That overbore all other things , had turned our last hour to anguish . 
She forgot for a time the prospect of moving into a new house , she forgot the outrage on her proprietorship and pride . 
For the first time in her life she really showed strong emotions in regard to me , for the first time , perhaps , they really came to her . 
She began to weep slow , reluctant tears . 
I came into her room , and found her asprawl on the bed , weeping . 
I didn't know , she cried . 
Oh ! I didn't understand ! I've been a fool . 
All my life is a wreck ! I shall be alone ! . 
MUTNEY ! Mutney , don't leave me ! Oh ! Mutney ! I didn't understand . 
A new born hunger for me lit her eyes . 
Don't leave me ! she said , don't leave me ! She clung to me she kissed me with tear salt lips . 
I was promised now and pledged , and I hardened my heart against this impossible dawn . 
Yet it seems to me that there were moments when it needed but a cry , but one word to have united us again for all our lives . 
Our own resolve carried us on our predestined way . 
My trunks and boxes went to the station . 
I packed my bag with Marion standing before me . 
We were like children who had hurt each other horribly in sheer stupidity , who didn't know now how to remedy it . 
We belonged to each other immensely immensely . 
The cab came to the little iron gate . 
Good bye ! I said . 
For a moment we held one another in each other's arms and kissed incredibly without malice . 
We heard our little servant in the passage going to open the door . 
For the last time we pressed ourselves to one another . 
We were not lovers nor enemies , but two human souls in a frank community of pain . 
I tore myself from her . 
Go away , I said to the servant , seeing that Marion had followed me down . 
I felt her standing behind me as I spoke to the cab man . 
I got into the cab , resolutely not looking back , and then as it started jumped up , craned out and looked at the door . 
It was wide open , but she had disappeared . 
I wonder I suppose she ran upstairs . 
I remember her upon the station platform , a bright , flitting figure looking along the train for me , and our walk over the fields in the twilight . 
The dusk and somber Marion were so alike , her sorrow seemed to be all about me . 
Certainly she knew I grieved for Marion , that ours was now no joyful reunion . 
But she showed no resentment and no jealousy . 
Extraordinarily , she did not compete against Marion . 
Never once in all our time together did she say an adverse word of Marion . 
She set herself presently to dispel the shadow that brooded over me with the same instinctive skill that some women will show with the trouble of a child . 
She made herself my glad and pretty slave and handmaid she forced me at last to rejoice in her . 
It is all , as I tell it now , unaccountable to me . 
I go back into these remote parts , these rarely visited uplands and lonely tares of memory , and it seems to me still a strange country . 
I had thought I might be going to some sensuous paradise with Effie , but desire which fills the universe before its satisfaction , vanishes utterly like the going of daylight with achievement . 
All the facts and forms of life remain darkling and cold . 
It was an upland of melancholy questionings , a region from which I saw all the world at new angles and in new aspects I had outflanked passion and romance . 
I had come into a condition of vast perplexities . 
For the first time in my life , at least so it seems to me now in this retrospect , I looked at my existence as a whole . 
I used to fall into musing in the trains , I became even a little inaccurate and forgetful about business things . 
I could almost write my thought down now , I believe , as they came to me that afternoon . 
Effie , restless little cockney that she was , rustled and struggled in a hedgerow below , gathering flowers , discovering flowers she had never seen before . 
I remember , a letter from Marion in my pocket . 
I had even made some tentatives for return , for a reconciliation Heaven knows now how I had put it ! but her cold , ill written letter repelled me . 
I perceived I could never face that old inconclusive dullness of life again , that stagnant disappointment . 
That , anyhow , wasn't possible . 
But what was possible ? I could see no way of honour or fine living before me at all . 
What am I to do with life ? that was the question that besieged me . 
I wondered if all the world was even as I , urged to this by one motive and to that by another , creatures of chance and impulse and unmeaning traditions . 
I wondered whether even in the Middle Ages I should have accepted that ruling without question . 
I remember too very distinctly how Effie came and sat beside me on a little box that was before the casement window of our room . 
I smiled and remained head on hand , looking out of the window forgetful of her . 
Did you love your wife so well ? she whispered softly . 
Oh ! I cried , recalled again I don't know . 
I don't understand these things . 
Life is a thing that hurts , my dear ! It hurts without logic or reason . 
I've blundered ! I didn't understand . 
Anyhow there is no need to go hurting you , is there ? And I turned about and drew her to me , and kissed her ear . 
Yes , I had a very bad time I still recall . 
I suffered , I suppose , from a sort of ennui of the imagination . 
I found myself without an object to hold my will together . 
I read restlessly and discursively . 
I tried Ewart and got no help from him . 
As I regard it all now in this retrospect , it seems to me as if in those days of disgust and abandoned aims I discovered myself for the first time . 
Before that I had seen only the world and things in it , had sought them self forgetful of all but my impulse . 
Now I found myself GROUPED with a system of appetites and satisfactions , with much work to do and no desire , it seemed , left in me . 
There were moments when I thought of suicide . 
At times my life appeared before me in bleak , relentless light , a series of ignorances , crude blunderings , degradation and cruelty . 
I had what the old theologians call a conviction of sin . 
I sought salvation not perhaps in the formula a Methodist preacher would recognise but salvation nevertheless . 
Men find their salvation nowadays in many ways . 
Names and forms don't , I think , matter very much the real need is something that we can hold and that holds one . 
I have known a man find that determining factor in a dry plate factory , and another in writing a history of the Manor . 
So long as it holds one , it does not matter . 
Many men and women nowadays take up some concrete aspect of Socialism or social reform . 
But Socialism for me has always been a little bit too human , too set about with personalities and foolishness . 
I don't like things so human . 
There's no humour in my blood . 
I'm in earnest in warp and woof . 
I stumble and flounder , but I know that over all these merry immediate things , there are other things that are great and serene , very high , beautiful things the reality . 
I haven't got it , but it's there nevertheless . 
I'm a spiritual guttersnipe in love with unimaginable goddesses . 
I've never seen the goddesses nor ever shall but it takes all the fun out of the mud and at times I fear it takes all the kindliness , too . 
But I'm talking of things I can't expect the reader to understand , because I don't half understand them myself . 
I can't explain myself , I perceive . 
Perhaps it all comes to this , that I am a hard and morally limited cad with a mind beyond my merits . 
Naturally I resist that as a complete solution . 
Anyhow , I had a sense of inexorable need , of distress and insufficiency that was unendurable , and for a time this aeronautical engineering allayed it . 
In the end of this particular crisis of which I tell so badly , I idealised Science . 
I decided that in power and knowledge lay the salvation of my life , the secret that would fill my need that to these things I would give myself . 
I emerged at last like a man who has been diving in darkness , clutching at a new resolve for which he had groped desperately and long . 
I came into the inner office suddenly one day it must have been just before the time of Marion's suit for restitution and sat down before my uncle . 
Look here , I said , I'm sick of this . 
HulLO ! he answered , and put some papers aside . 
What's up , George ? Things are wrong . 
As how ? My life , I said , it's a mess , an infinite mess . 
She's been a stupid girl , George , he said I partly understand . 
But you're quit of her now , practically , and there's just as good fish in the sea Oh ! it's not that ! I cried . 
That's only the part that shows . 
I'm sick I'm sick of all this damned rascality . 
Eh ? Eh ? said my uncle . 
WHAT rascality ? Oh , YOU know . 
I want some STUFF , man . 
I want something to hold on to . 
I shall go amok if I don't get it . 
I'm a different sort of beast from you . 
You float in all this bunkum . 
I feel like a man floundering in a universe of soapsuds , up and downs , east and west . 
I must get my foot on something solid or I don't know what . 
I laughed at the consternation in his face . 
I mean it , I said . 
I've been thinking it over . 
I've made up my mind . 
I shall go in for work real work . 
No ! this isn't work it's only laborious cheating . 
But I've got an idea ! It's an old idea I thought of years ago , but it came back to me . 
Look here ! Why should I fence about with you ? I believe the time has come for flying to be possible . 
Real flying ! Flying ! I stuck to that , and it helped me through the worst time in my life . 
My uncle , after some half hearted resistance and a talk with my aunt , behaved like the father of a spoilt son . 
But I will tell of my soaring and flying machines in the proper place . 
I've been leaving the story of my uncle altogether too long . 
I wanted merely to tell how it was I took to this work . 
I took to these experiments after I had sought something that Marion in some indefinable way had seemed to promise . 
I toiled and forgot myself for a time , and did many things . 
Science too has been something of an irresponsive mistress since , though I've served her better than I served Marion . 
But at the time Science , with her order , her inhuman distance , yet steely certainties , saved me from despair . 
Well , I have still to fly but incidentally I have invented the lightest engines in the world . 
I am trying to tell of all the things that happened to me . 
It's hard enough simply to get it put down in the remotest degree right . 
But this is a novel , not a treatise . 
Don't imagine that I am coming presently to any sort of solution of my difficulties . 
Here among my drawings and hammerings NOW , I still question unanswering problems . 
XI But before I finish this chapter and book altogether and go on with the great adventure of my uncle's career . 
I may perhaps tell what else remains to tell of Marion and Effie , and then for a time set my private life behind me . 
For a time Marion and I corresponded with some regularity , writing friendly but rather uninforming letters about small business things . 
The clumsy process of divorce completed itself . 
She left the house at Ealing and went into the country with her aunt and parents , taking a small farm near Lewes in Sussex . 
She put up glass , she put in heat for her father , happy man ! and spoke of figs and peaches . 
The thing seemed to promise well throughout a spring and summer , but the Sussex winter after London was too much for the Ramboats . 
They got very muddy and dull Mr. Ramboat killed a cow by improper feeding , and that disheartened them all . 
A twelvemonth saw the enterprise in difficulties . 
The parents and aunt were stowed away in a cottage somewhere . 
After that the letters became infrequent . 
But in one I remember a postscript that had a little stab of our old intimacy Poor old Miggles is dead . 
Nearly eight years slipped by . 
Her letters become rare and insignificant . 
At last came a gap of silence that made me curious . 
For eighteen months or more I had nothing from Marion save her quarterly receipts through the bank . 
Then I damned at Smithie , and wrote a card to Marion . 
Dear Marion , I said , how goes it ? She astonished me tremendously by telling me she had married again a Mr. Wachorn , a leading agent in the paper pattern trade . 
notepaper , from the Ponderevo and Smith address . 
I do not know where she is or what she is doing . 
I do not know whether she is alive or dead . 
It seems to me utterly grotesque that two people who have stood so close to one another as she and I should be so separated , but so it is between us . 
Effie , too , I have parted from , though I still see her at times . 
Between us there was never any intention of marriage nor intimacy of soul . 
She had a sudden , fierce , hot blooded passion for me and I for her , but I was not her first lover nor her last . 
She was in another world from Marion . 
She had a queer , delightful nature I've no memory of ever seeing her sullen or malicious . 
She was indeed she was magnificently eupeptic . 
That , I think , was the central secret of her agreeableness , and , moreover , that she was infinitely kind hearted . 
I helped her at last into an opening she coveted , and she amazed me by a sudden display of business capacity . 
She has now a typewriting bureau in Riffle's Inn , and she runs it with a brisk vigour and considerable success , albeit a certain plumpness has overtaken her . 
And she still loves her kind . 
She did it , she said , because he needed nursing . 
He always went as though he was proud of it and would make as much of it as possible . 
He assumed a broad black ribbon for his glasses , and wore them more and more askew as time went on . 
It always stuck out fiercely over his forehead , up and forward . 
He adopted an urban style of dressing with the onset of Tono Bungay and rarely abandoned it . 
He displayed a number of valuable rings , and I remember one upon his left little finger with a large red stone bearing Gnostic symbols . 
Clever chaps , those Gnostics , George , he told me . 
Lucky ! He never had any but a black mohair watch chair . 
Of an evening he would wear white waistcoats and plain gold studs . 
Flashy , he said they were . 
Might as well wear an income tax receipt . 
All very well for Park Lane . 
So much for his visible presence . 
His voice declined during those years from his early tenor to a flat rich quality of sound that my knowledge of music is inadequate to describe . 
His Zzz ing inrush of air became less frequent as he ripened , but returned in moments of excitement . 
Throughout his career , in spite of his increasing and at last astounding opulence , his more intimate habits remained as simple as they had been at Wimblehurst . 
He became wary about breakfast as life advanced , and at one time talked much of Dr . 
But for other meals he remained reasonably omnivorous . 
He was something of a gastronome , and would eat anything he particularly liked in an audible manner , and perspire upon his forehead . 
I have already I think , mentioned how , long before we offered Tono Bungay to the public , we took over the English agency of certain American specialties . 
This was the grandson of the original Moggs , and a very typical instance of an educated , cultivated , degenerate plutocrat . 
In the frankness of conviviality , Moggs bewailed the uncongenial task thus thrust into his hands , and my uncle offered to lighten his burden by a partnership then and there . 
They even got to terms extremely muzzy terms , but terms nevertheless . 
My uncle made a painful struggle it was one of my business mornings to recall name and particulars . 
He was an aquarium faced , long , blond sort of chap , George , with glasses and a genteel accent , he said . 
Aquarium faced ? You know how they look at you . 
His stuff was soap , I'm pretty nearly certain . 
And he had a name And the thing was the straightest Bit of All right you ever . 
I was clear enough to spot that . 
We went out at last with knitted brows , and wandered up into Finsbury seeking a good , well stocked looking grocer . 
We called first on a chemist for a pick me up for my uncle , and then we found the shop we needed . 
I want , said my uncle , half a pound of every sort of soap you got . 
Yes , I want to take them now . 
Wait a moment , George . 
Now what sort of soap d'you call THAT ? At the third repetition of that question the young man said , Moggs' Domestic . 
Right , said my uncle . 
Come along , George , let's go to a telephone and get on to Moggs . 
Oh the order ? Certainly . 
and put it down to me , here's a card Ponderevo Tono Bungay . 
No objection to our advertising you wide and free ? said my uncle . 
I draw the line at railway stations , said Moggs , south coast cliffs , theatre programmes , books by me and poetry generally scenery oh ! and the Mercure de France . 
We'll get along , said my uncle . 
So long as you don't annoy me , said Moggs , lighting a cigarette , you can make me as rich as you like . 
We certainly made him no poorer . 
His was the first firm that was advertised by a circumstantial history we even got to illustrated magazine articles telling of the quaint past of Moggs . 
Trusting to our partner's preoccupation with the uncommercial aspects of life , we gave graceful history of Moggs the First , Moggs the Second , Moggs the Third , and Moggs the Fourth . 
You must , unless you are very young , remember some of them and our admirable block of a Georgian shop window . 
We roped in a good little second rate black lead firm , and carried their origins back into the mists of antiquity . 
It was my uncle's own unaided idea that we should associate that commodity with the Black Prince . 
He became industriously curious about the past of black lead . 
I remember his button holing the president of the Pepys Society . 
Don't want your drum and trumpet history no fear , he used to say . 
Don't want to know who was who's mistress , and why so and so devastated such a province that's bound to be all lies and upsy down anyhow . 
Chaps who did it didn't clearly know . 
The Home , George , he said , wants straightening up . 
Silly muddle ! Things that get in the way . 
For a time he displayed something like the zeal of a genuine social reformer in relation to these matters . 
We've got to bring the Home Up to Date ? That's my idee , George . 
We got to make a civilised domestic machine out of these relics of barbarism . 
I'm going to hunt up inventors , make a corner in d'mestic ideas . 
Balls of string that won't dissolve into a tangle , and gum that won't dry into horn . 
See ? Then after conveniences beauty . 
Beauty , George ! All these few things ought to be made fit to look at it's your aunt's idea , that . 
Beautiful jam pots ! Get one of those new art chaps to design all the things they make ugly now . 
Patent carpet sweepers by these greenwood chaps , housemaid's boxes it'll be a pleasure to fall over rich coloured house flannels . 
Hang 'em up on the walls like warming pans . 
All the polishes and things in such tins you'll want to cuddle 'em , George ! See the notion ? 'Sted of all the silly ugly things we got . 
And really we did do much towards that very brightness these shops display . 
They were dingy things in the eighties compared to what our efforts have made them now , grey quiet displays . 
And then came the reconstruction of Tono Bungay , and then Household services and the Boom ! That sort of development is not to he told in detail in a novel . 
I have , indeed , told much of it elsewhere . 
Some people know everything in that story , some know it all too well , most do not want the details . 
And after all , you wouldn't find the early figures so much wrong as STRAINED . 
and acquired Skinnerton's polishes , the Riffleshaw properties and the Runcorn's mincer and coffee mill business . 
I was developing a glider into a flyer . 
I meant to apply power to this glider as soon as I could work out one or two residual problems affecting the longitudinal stability . 
But that I will tell about later . 
The point I was coming to was that I did not realise until after the crash how recklessly my uncle had kept his promise of paying a dividend of over eight per cent . 
on the ordinary shares of that hugely over capitalised enterprise , Household Services . 
I drifted out of business affairs into my research much more than either I or my uncle had contemplated . 
Finance was much less to my taste than the organisation of the Tono Bungay factory . 
It wasn't fear I felt so much as an uneasy inaccuracy . 
I didn't realise dangers , I simply disliked the sloppy , relaxing quality of this new sort of work . 
I was at last constantly making excuses not to come up to him in London . 
The latter part of his business career recedes therefore beyond the circle of any particular life . 
From the Do Ut time onward he rushed up the financial world like a bubble in water and left me like some busy water thing down below in the deeps . 
Anyhow , he was an immense success . 
It was a period of expansion and confidence much money was seeking investment and Industrials were the fashion . 
Prices were rising all round . 
His sole difficulty indeed was the tactful management of the load of shares that each of these transactions left upon his hands . 
But I thought so little of these later things that I never fully appreciated the peculiar inconveniences of that until it was too late to help him . 
These rooms in the Hardingham were a string of apartments along one handsome thick carpeted corridor . 
And wonderful , incidental , frowsy people . 
All these persons maintained a practically hopeless siege sometimes for weeks together they had better have stayed at home . 
Then came a room with a couple of secretaries no typewriters , because my uncle hated the clatter and a casual person or two sitting about , projectors whose projects were being entertained . 
Here and in a further room nearer the private apartments , my uncle's correspondence underwent an exhaustive process of pruning and digestion before it reached him . 
Then the two little rooms in which my uncle talked my magic uncle who had got the investing public to whom all things were possible . 
That'ju , George ? he used to say . 
Tell him Mister over again . 
Have a drink , George ? No ! Wise man ! Liss'n . 
I was always ready to listen . 
All sorts of financial marvels came out of the Hardingham , more particularly during my uncle's last great flurry , but they were nothing to the projects that passed in . 
It was the little brown and gold room he sat in usually . 
He had had it redecorated by Bordingly and half a dozen Sussex pictures by Webster hung about it . 
Latterly he wore a velveteen jacket of a golden brown colour in this apartment that I think over emphasised its esthetic intention , and he also added some gross Chinese bronzes . 
He was , on the whole , a very happy man throughout all that wildly enterprising time . 
He made and , as I shall tell in its place , spent great sums of money . 
He was constantly in violent motion , constantly stimulated mentally and physically and rarely tired . 
About him was an atmosphere of immense deference much of his waking life was triumphal and all his dreams . 
I doubt if he had any dissatisfaction with himself at all until the crash bore him down . 
Things must have gone very rapidly with him . 
I think he must have been very happy . 
This irrational muddle of a community in which we live gave him that , paid him at that rate for sitting in a room and scheming and telling it lies . 
For he created nothing , he invented nothing , he economised nothing . 
I cannot claim that a single one of the great businesses we organised added any real value to human life at all . 
Several like Tono Bungay were unmitigated frauds by any honest standard , the giving of nothing coated in advertisements for money . 
And the things the Hardingham gave out , I repeat , were nothing to the things that came in . 
I think of the long procession of people who sat down before us and propounded this and that . 
It was all put to us tentatively , persuasively . 
Many came in couples or trios , often in tow of an explanatory solicitor . 
Some were white and earnest , some flustered beyond measure at their opportunity . 
Some of them begged and prayed to be taken up . 
My uncle chose what he wanted and left the rest . 
He became very autocratic to these applicants . 
He felt he could make them , and they felt so too . 
He had but to say No ! and they faded out of existence . 
He had become a sort of vortex to which wealth flowed of its own accord . 
His possessions increased by heaps his shares , his leaseholds and mortgages and debentures . 
This was in the culminating time when I had least to do with affairs . 
I don't say that with any desire to exculpate myself I admit I was a director of all three , and I will confess I was willfully incurious in that capacity . 
Each of these companies ended its financial year solvent by selling great holdings of shares to one or other of its sisters , and paying a dividend out of the proceeds . 
I sat at the table and agreed . 
That was our method of equilibrium at the iridescent climax of the bubble . 
You perceive now , however , the nature of the services for which this fantastic community have him unmanageable wealth and power and real respect . 
It was all a monstrous payment for courageous fiction , a gratuity in return for the one reality of human life illusion . 
We gave them a feeling of hope and profit we sent a tidal wave of water and confidence into their stranded affairs . 
We mint Faith , George , said my uncle one day . 
And by Jove we got to keep minting ! We been making human confidence ever since I drove the first cork of Tono Bungay . 
Coining would have been a better word than minting ! And yet , you know , in a sense he was right . 
Civilisation is possible only through confidence , so that we can bank our money and go unarmed about the streets . 
The bank reserve or a policeman keeping order in a jostling multitude of people , are only slightly less impudent bluffs than my uncle's prospectuses . 
They couldn't for a moment make good if the quarter of what they guarantee was demanded of them . 
The whole of this modern mercantile investing civilisation is indeed such stuff as dreams are made of . 
I wonder and plan my engines . 
The flags flutter , the crowds cheer , the legislatures meet . 
Well , so it was we Boomed , and for four years and a half we lived a life of mingled substance and moonshine . 
He became particularly addicted to the last idiom . 
It is remarkable how little it troubles my conscience and how much it stirs my imagination , that particular memory of the life I took . 
What's quap ? said my uncle on the fourth repetition of the word . 
They call it quap , or quab , or quabb , said Gordon Nasmyth but our relations weren't friendly enough to get the accent right . 
But there the stuff is for the taking . 
They don't know about it . 
I got down to the damned place in a canoe alone . 
I pretended to be botanising . 
To begin with , Gordon Nasmyth was inclined to be dramatic . 
on your money in a year ? We're always getting chances like that , said my uncle , cocking his cigar offensively , wiping his glasses and tilting his chair back . 
We stick to a safe twenty . 
Gordon Nasmyth's quick temper showed in a slight stiffening of his attitude . 
Don't you believe him , said I , getting up before he could reply . 
You're different , and I know your books . 
We're very glad you've come to us . 
Confound it , uncle ! Its Gordon Nasmyth ! Sit down . 
What is it ? Minerals ? Quap , said Gordon Nasmyth , fixing his eye on me , in heaps . 
In heaps , said my uncle softly , with his glasses very oblique . 
You're only fit for the grocery , said Gordon Nasmyth scornfully , sitting down and helping himself to one of my uncle's cigars . 
But , still , now I'm here . 
And first as to quap quap , sir , is the most radio active stuff in the world . 
That's quap ! It's a festering mass of earths and heavy metals , polonium , radium , ythorium , thorium , carium , and new things , too . 
There's a stuff called Xk provisionally . 
There they are , mucked up together in a sort of rotting sand . 
What it is , how it got made , I don't know . 
It's like as if some young creator had been playing about there . 
There it lies in two heaps , one small , one great , and the world for miles about it is blasted and scorched and dead . 
You can have it for the getting . 
You've got to take it that's all ! That sounds all right , said I. Have you samples ? Well should I ? You can have anything up to two ounces . 
His blue eye smiled at me and scrutinised me . 
He smoked and was fragmentary for a time , fending off my questions then his story began to piece itself together . 
There it is for the taking ! In a country where you mustn't trade . 
In a country where the company waits for good kind men to find it riches and then take 'em away from 'em . 
There you have it derelict . 
Can't you do any sort of deal ? They're too damned stupid . 
You've got to go and take it . 
They might , of course . 
But they're not great at catching . 
We went into the particulars of that difficulty . 
They wouldn't catch me , because I'd sink first . 
Give me a yacht , said Gordon Nasmyth that's all I need . 
But if you get caught , said my uncle . 
I am inclined to think Gordon Nasmyth imagined we would give him a cheque for six thousand pounds on the strength of his talk . 
It was very good talk , but we didn't do that . 
I stipulated for samples of his stuff for analysis , and he consented reluctantly . 
I think , on the whole , he would rather I didn't examine samples . 
He made a motion pocketwards , that gave us an invincible persuasion that he had a sample upon him , and that at the last instant he decided not to produce it prematurely . 
There was evidently a curious strain of secretiveness in him . 
He didn't like to give us samples , and he wouldn't indicate within three hundred miles the position of this Mordet Island of his . 
And so presently , to gain time for these hesitations of his , he began to talk of other things . 
And all this time he was trying to judge if we were good enough to trust with his adventure . 
But Gordon Nasmyth made it so real and intimate for us that afternoon for me , at any rate that it seemed like something seen and forgotten and now again remembered . 
Don't carry it about on you , said Gordon Nasmyth . 
I took the stuff to Thorold , and Thorold had the exquisite agony of discovering two new elements in what was then a confidential analysis . 
I thought you were going to analyse it yourself , he said with the touching persuasion of the layman that a scientific man knows and practises at the sciences . 
I made some commercial inquiries , and there seemed even then much truth in Gordon Nasmyth's estimate of the value of the stuff . 
There were , however , doubts . 
Indeed , there were numerous doubts . 
What were the limits of the gas mantle trade ? How much thorium , not to speak of cerium , could they take at a maximum . 
Suppose that quantity was high enough to justify our shipload , came doubts in another quarter . 
It was on forbidden ground . 
You see , there were doubts of every grade and class in the way of this adventure . 
We went some way , nevertheless , in the discussion of his project , though I think we tried his patience . 
Then suddenly he vanished from London , and I saw no more of him for a year and a half . 
affairs , the business of the quap expedition had to be begun again at the beginning . 
My uncle was disposed to be altogether sceptical , but I wasn't so decided . 
I think I was drawn by its picturesque aspects . 
But we neither of us dreamt of touching it seriously until Capern's discovery . 
Nasmyth's story had laid hold of my imagination like one small , intense picture of tropical sunshine hung on a wall of grey business affairs . 
I kept it going during Gordon Nasmyth's intermittent appearances in England . 
Every now and then he and I would meet and reinforce its effect . 
At times they became a sort of fairy story with us , an imaginative exercise . 
And there came Capern's discovery of what he called the ideal filament and with it an altogether less problematical quality about the business side of quap . 
For the ideal filament needed five per cent . 
of canadium , and canadium was known to the world only as a newly separated constituent of a variety of the rare mineral rutile . 
But to Thorold it was better known as an element in a mysterious sample brought to him by me , and to me it was known as one of the elements in quap . 
I told my uncle , and we jumped on to the process at once . 
But that was one of our last enterprises before our great crisis , and I will tell of it in its place . 
So it was quap came into our affairs , came in as a fairy tale and became real . 
V All sorts of things came to the Hardingham and offered themselves to my uncle . 
Gordon Nasmyth stands but only because he played a part at last in the crisis of our fortunes . 
So much came to us that it seemed to me at times as though the whole world of human affairs was ready to prostitute itself to our real and imaginary millions . 
As I look back , I am still dazzled and incredulous to think of the quality of our opportunities . 
We did the most extraordinary things things that it seems absurd to me to leave to any casual man of wealth and enterprise who cares to do them . 
I had some amazing perceptions of just how modern thought and the supply of fact to the general mind may be controlled by money . 
It still amazes me I shall die amazed that such a thing can be possible in the modern state . 
If my uncle failed to bring the thing off , some one else may succeed . 
But I doubt , even if he had got both these weeklies , whether his peculiar style would have suited them . 
The change of purpose would have shown . 
He would have found it difficult to keep up their dignity . 
He certainly did not keep up the dignity of the Sacred Grove , an important critical organ which he acquired one day by saying snap for eight hundred pounds . 
He got it lock , stock and barrel under one or other of which three aspects the editor was included . 
Even at that price it didn't pay . 
One old wrapper I discovered the other day runs THE SACRED GROVE . 
Weekly Magazine of Art , Philosophy , Science and Belles Lettres . 
HAVE YOU A NASTY TASTE IN YOUR MOUTH ? IT IS LIVER . 
YOU NEED ONE TWENTY THREE PILL . 
NOT A DRUG BUT A LIVE AMERICAN REMEDY . 
A Hitherto Unpublished Letter from Walter Pater . 
Charlotte Bronte's Maternal Great Aunt . 
A New Catholic History of England . 
Correspondence The Mendelian Hypothesis The Split Infinitive Commence , or Begin Claverhouse Socialism and the Individual The Dignity of Letters . 
The Stage the Paradox of Acting . 
Travel Biography , Verse , Fiction , etc . 
These are ideal conceptions of mine . 
It was like looking down a well into some momentarily revealed nether world . 
There they were , half phantom through the fog , a silent , foot dragging , interminable , grey procession . 
A shambling , shameful stream they made , oozing along the street , the gutter waste of competitive civilisation . 
There , thought I , but for the grace of God , go George and Edward Ponderevo . 
But my uncle's thoughts ran in a different channel , and he made that vision the test of a spirited but inconclusive harangue upon Tariff Reform . 
CHAPTER THE SECOND OUR PROGRESS FROM CAMDEN TOWN TO CREST HILL I So far my history of my aunt and uncle has dealt chiefly with his industrial and financial exploits . 
As I recall this side of our life , the figure of my round eyes , button nosed , pink and white Aunt Susan tends always to the central position . 
I've already sketched the little home behind the Wimblehurst chemist's shop , the lodging near the Cobden statue , and the apartments in Gower Street . 
Thence my aunt and uncle went into a flat in Redgauntlet Mansions . 
There they lived when I married . 
I began to find unexpected books upon her table sociological books , travels , Shaw's plays . 
Hullo ! I said , at the sight of some volume of the latter . 
I'm keeping a mind , George , she explained . 
Eh ? Keeping a mind . 
Dogs I never cared for . 
It's been a toss up between setting up a mind and setting up a soul . 
It's jolly lucky for Him and you it's a mind . 
I've joined the London Library , and I'm going in for the Royal Institution and every blessed lecture that comes along next winter . 
And I remember her coming in late one evening with a note book in her hand . 
Where ya been , Susan ? said my uncle . 
She sat down and took off her gloves . 
The house at Beckengham was something of an enterprise for them at that time , a reasonably large place by the standards of the early years of Tono Bungay . 
It was a big , rather gaunt villa , with a conservatory and a shrubbery , a tennis lawn , a quite considerable vegetable garden , and a small disused coach house . 
I had some glimpses of the excitements of its inauguration , but not many because of the estrangement between my aunt and Marion . 
My aunt went into that house with considerable zest , and my uncle distinguished himself by the thoroughness with which he did the repainting and replumbing . 
He had all the drains up and most of the garden with them , and stood administrative on heaps administrating whisky to the workmen . 
I found him there one day , most Napoleonic , on a little Elba of dirt , in an atmosphere that defies print . 
He also , I remember , chose what he considered cheerful contrasts of colours for the painting of the woodwork . 
Martin Luther was kept for me . 
Only her respect for domestic discipline , she said , prevented her retaliating with Old Pondo on the housemaid's cupboard . 
Also he went and ordered one of the completest sets of garden requisites I have ever seen and had them all painted a hard clear blue . 
So she resumed her place in society from which she had fallen with the disaster of Wimblehurst . 
She made a partially facetious study of the etiquette of her position , had cards engraved and retaliated calls . 
Old Trek , George , she said compactly , Onward and Up , when I found her superintending the loading of two big furniture vans . 
Go up and say good bye to 'Martin Luther , and then I'll see what you can do to help me . 
II I look into the jumbled stores of the middle distance of memory , and Beckenham seems to me a quite transitory phase . 
But really they were there several years through nearly all my married life , in fact , and far longer than the year and odd months we lived together at Wimblehurst . 
But the Wimblehurst time with them is fuller in my memory by far then the Beckenham period . 
It's like a scrap from another life . 
The only other men were my aunt's doctor , two of the clergy , amiable contrasted men , and Mrs. Hogberry's imperfectly grown up son , a youth just bursting into collar . 
The rest were women , except for a young girl or so in a state of speechless good behaviour . 
Marion and I had arrived a little estranged , and I remember her as a silent presence , a shadow across all that sunlit emptiness of intercourse . 
We had embittered each other with one of those miserable little disputes that seemed so unavoidable between us . 
I was recalcitrant , she quoted an illustrated paper showing a garden party with the King present , and finally I capitulated but after my evil habit , resentfully . 
They all sat about in the summer house and in garden chairs , and were very hatty and ruffley and sunshady . 
Three ladies and the curate played croquet with a general immense gravity , broken by occasional loud cries of feigned distress from the curate . 
She talked of the way in which Beckenham society was getting mixed , and turned on to a touching letter she had recently received from her former nurse at Little Gossdean . 
Followed a loud account of Little Gossdean and how much she and her eight sisters had been looked up to there . 
My poor mother was quite a little Queen there , she said . 
And such NICE Common people ! People say the country labourers are getting disrespectful nowadays . 
It isn't so not if they're properly treated . 
Here of course in Beckenham it's different . 
I won't call the people we get here a Poor they're certainly not a proper Poor . 
I always tell Mr. Bugshoot they're Masses , and ought to be treated as such . 
Dim memories of Mrs. Mackridge floated through my mind as I listened to her . 
I wonder now what it was I said that was frivolous . 
I don't know what happened to end that conversation , or if it had an end . 
As though I had treated it as new and he meant to be very patient but very convincing . 
Then we hung up in a distinct pause , and my aunt rescued me . 
George , she said in a confidential undertone , keep the pot a boiling . 
I found we were near a rustic table , and that the housemaid was behind us in a suitable position to catch us on the rebound with the tea things . 
Trot ! repeated the clergyman to me , much amused excellent expression ! And I just saved him from the tray as he turned about . 
We handed tea for a while . 
Give 'em cakes , said my aunt , flushed , but well in hand . 
Helps 'em to talk , George . 
Always talk best after a little nourishment . 
Like throwing a bit of turf down an old geyser . 
She surveyed the gathering with a predominant blue eye and helped herself to tea . 
They keep on going stiff , she said in an undertone . 
It's been a huge success , I said encouragingly . 
That boy has had his legs crossed in that position and hasn't spoken for ten minutes . 
He's beginning a dry cough always a bad sign , George . 
Walk 'em about , shall I ? rub their noses with snow ? Happily she didn't . 
I always feel , said the pensive little woman , that there's something about a dog A cat hasn't got it . 
Yes , I found myself admitting with great enthusiasm , there is something . 
And yet again Oh ! I know there's something about a cat , too . 
But it isn't the same . 
Not quite the same , I admitted but still it's something . 
Ah ! But such a different something ! More sinuous . 
It makes all the difference , don't you think ? Yes , I said , ALL . 
She glanced at me gravely and sighed a long , deeply felt Yes . 
The thing seemed to me to amount to a stale mate . 
Fear came into my heart and much perplexity . 
The er Roses , I said . 
I felt like a drowning man . 
Those roses don't you think they are very beautiful flowers ? Aren't they ! she agreed gently . 
There seems to be something in roses something I don't know how to express it . 
Something , I said helpfully . 
Yes , she said , something . 
Isn't there ? So few people see it , I said more's the pity ! She sighed and said again very softly , Yes . 
There was another long pause . 
I looked at her and she was thinking dreamily . 
The drowning sensation returned , the fear and enfeeblement . 
I perceived by a sort of inspiration that her tea cup was empty . 
Let me take your cup , I said abruptly , and , that secured , made for the table by the summer house . 
I had no intention then of deserting my aunt . 
But close at hand the big French window of the drawing room yawned inviting and suggestive . 
I can feel all that temptation now , and particularly the provocation of my collar . 
In an instant I was lost . 
I arrived there breathless , convinced there was no return for me . 
I was very glad and ashamed of myself , and desperate . 
The clergymen , I thought , were wonderful . 
III A few such pictures of those early days at Beckenham stand out , and then I find myself among the Chiselhurst memories . 
The Chiselhurst mansion had grounds rather than a mere garden , and there was a gardener's cottage and a little lodge at the gate . 
The ascendant movement was always far more in evidence there than at Beckenham . 
The velocity was increasing One night picks itself out as typical , as , in its way , marking an epoch . 
I got down there , I suppose , about eleven . 
Look here , George , said my uncle , after my first greetings . 
I just been saying We aren't Oh Fay ! Eh ? Not Oh Fay ! Socially ! Old FLY , he means , George French ! Oh ! Didn't think of French . 
One never knows where to have him . 
What's gone wrong to night ? I been thinking . 
It isn't any particular thing . 
I ate too much of that fishy stuff at first , like salt frog spawn , and was a bit confused by olives and well , I didn't know which wine was which . 
Had to say THAT each time . 
It puts your talk all wrong . 
And she wasn't in evening dress , not like the others . 
We can't go on in that style , George not a proper ad . 
I'm not sure you were right , I said , in having a fly . 
We got to do it all better , said my uncle , we got to do it in Style . 
Smart business , smart men . 
She tries to pass it off as humorous my aunt pulled a grimace it isn't humorous ! See ! We're on the up grade now , fair and square . 
We're going to be big . 
We aren't going to be laughed at as Poovenoos , see ! Nobody laughed at you , said my aunt . 
Old Bladder ! Nobody isn't going to laugh at me , said my uncle , glancing at his contours and suddenly sitting up . 
My aunt raised her eyebrows slightly , swung her foot , and said nothing . 
We aren't keeping pace with our own progress , George . 
We're bumping against new people , and they set up to be gentlefolks etiquette dinners and all the rest of it . 
They give themselves airs and expect us to be fish out of water . 
We aren't going to be . 
They think we've no Style . 
Well , we give them Style for our advertisements , and we're going to give 'em Style all through . 
You needn't be born to it to dance well on the wires of the Bond Street tradesmen . 
See ? I handed him the cigar box . 
Runcorn hadn't cigars like these , he said , truncating one lovingly . 
We beat him at cigars . 
We'll beat him all round . 
My aunt and I regarded him , full of apprehensions . 
I got idees , he said darkly to the cigar , deepening our dread . 
He pocketed his cigar cutter and spoke again . 
We got to learn all the rotten little game first . 
See , F'rinstance , we got to get samples of all the blessed wines there are and learn 'em up . 
Stern , Smoor , Burgundy , all of 'em ! She took Stern to night and when she tasted it first you pulled a face , Susan , you did . 
We got to get used to wine and not do that . 
We got to get used to wearing evening dress YOU , Susan , too . 
Always have had a tendency to stick out of my clothes , said my aunt . 
However Who cares ? She shrugged her shoulders . 
I had never seen my uncle so immensely serious . 
Got to get the hang of etiquette , he went on to the fire . 
Dine every night in evening dress . 
Get a brougham or something . 
Learn up golf and tennis and things . 
It isn't only freedom from Goochery . 
Oh ! Gawshery , if you like ! French , George , said my aunt . 
But I'M not ol' Gooch . 
I made that face for fun . 
It isn't only freedom from Gawshery . 
We got to have Style . 
See ! Style ! Just all right and one better . 
That's what I call Style . 
We can do it , and we will . 
He mumbled his cigar and smoked for a space , leaning forward and looking into the fire . 
What is it , he asked , after all ? What is it ? Tips about eating tips about drinking . 
How to hold yourself , and not say jes' the few little things they know for certain are wrong jes' the shibboleth things . 
He was silent again , and the cigar crept up from the horizontal towards the zenith as the confidence of his mouth increased . 
Learn the whole bag of tricks in six months . 
he said , becoming more cheerful . 
Ah , Susan ? Beat it out ! George , you in particular ought to get hold of it . 
Ought to get into a good club , and all that . 
Always ready to learn ! I said . 
Ever since you gave me the chance of Latin . 
So far we don't seem to have hit upon any Latin speaking stratum in the population . 
We've come to French , said my aunt , anyhow . 
It's a very useful language , said my uncle . 
Put a point on things . 
As for accent , no Englishman has an accent . 
No Englishman pronounces French properly . 
That's why it's so important , Susan , for us to attend to Style . 
The Style it's the man . 
Whad you laughing at , Susan ? George , you're not smoking . 
These cigars are good for the mind . 
What do YOU think of it all ? We got to adapt ourselves . 
Not going to be beat by these silly things . 
IV What do you think of it , George ? he insisted . 
What I said I thought of it I don't now recall . 
Only I have very distinctly the impression of meeting for a moment my aunt's impenetrable eye . 
And anyhow he started in with his accustomed energy to rape the mysteries of the Costly Life , and become the calmest of its lords . 
On the whole , I think he did it thoroughly . 
I have crowded memories , a little difficult to disentangle , of his experimental stages , his experimental proceedings . 
It's hard at times to say which memory comes in front of which . 
There was a time it must have been very early when I saw him deeply impressed by the splendours of the dining room of the National Liberal Club . 
He was betrayed into a whisper to me , This is all Right , George ! he said . 
The two of them learnt the new game rapidly and well they experimented abroad , they experimented at home . 
They afterwards got a gardener who could wait at table and he brought the soil home to one . 
Then there came a butler . 
A ham , she remarked reflectively , must feel like this . 
I attempted , I think , some commonplace compliment . 
My uncle appeared at the door in a white waistcoat and with his hands in his trouser pockets he halted and surveyed her critically . 
Couldn't tell you from a duchess , Susan , he remarked . 
I'd like to have you painted , standin' at the fire like that . 
Sargent ! You look spirited , somehow . 
Lord ! I wish some of those damned tradesmen at Wimblehurst could see you . 
They did a lot of week ending at hotels , and sometimes I went down with them . 
We seemed to fall into a vast drifting crowd of social learners . 
A swift and systematic conversion to gentility has been going on , I am convinced , throughout the whole commercial upper middle class since I was twenty one . 
Curiously mixed was the personal quality of the people one saw in these raids . 
And nobody , you knew , was anybody , however expensively they dressed and whatever rooms they took . 
We became part of what is nowadays quite an important element in the confusion of our world , that multitude of economically ascendant people who are learning how to spend money . 
Their general effect is one of progressive revolution , of limitless rope . 
They discover suddenly indulgences their moral code never foresaw and has no provision for , elaborations , ornaments , possessions beyond their wildest dreams . 
They plunge into it as one plunges into a career as a class , they talk , think , and dream possessions . 
Once they begin to move they go far and fast . 
Acquisition becomes the substance of their lives . 
They find a world organised to gratify that passion . 
In a brief year or so they are connoisseurs . 
They join in the plunder of the eighteenth century , buy rare old books , fine old pictures , good old furniture . 
Their first crude conception of dazzling suites of the newly perfect is replaced almost from the outset by a jackdaw dream of accumulating costly discrepant old things . 
I seem to remember my uncle taking to shopping quite suddenly . 
I forget now when the change came and he began to spend . 
Some accident must have revealed to him this new source of power , or some subtle shifting occurred in the tissues of his brain . 
He began to spend and shop . 
So soon as he began to shop , he began to shop violently . 
He began buying pictures , and then , oddly enough , old clocks . 
For the Chiselhurst house he bought nearly a dozen grandfather clocks and three copper warming pans . 
After that he bought much furniture . 
Then he plunged into art patronage , and began to commission pictures and to make presents to churches and institutions . 
His buying increased with a regular acceleration . 
Its development was a part of the mental changes that came to him in the wild excitements of the last four years of his ascent . 
Always it was he who shopped . 
My aunt did not shine as a purchaser . 
It is a curious thing , due to I know not what fine strain in her composition , that my aunt never set any great store upon possessions . 
No one , I thought , would sit so apart if she hadn't dreams and what are her dreams ? I'd never thought . 
And I remember , too , an outburst of scornful description after she had lunched with a party of women at the Imperial Cosmic Club . 
She came round to my rooms on the chance of finding me there , and I gave her tea . 
She professed herself tired and cross , and flung herself into my chair . 
George , she cried , the Things women are ! Do I stink of money ? Lunching ? I asked . 
Oriental type ? Oh ! Like a burst hareem ! . 
They feel your clothes , George , to see if they are good ! I soothed her as well as I could . 
They ARE Good aren't they ? I said . 
It's the old pawnshop in their blood , she said , drinking tea and then in infinite disgust , They run their hands over your clothes they paw you . 
I had a moment of doubt whether perhaps she had not been discovered in possession of unsuspected forgeries . 
They have a kind of etiquette . 
In each other's houses they peer at the pictures , handle the selvage of hangings , look at the bottoms of china . 
I wonder if it IS the old pawnshop in the blood . 
I doubt if Lady Drew and the Olympians did that sort of thing , but here I may be only clinging to another of my former illusions about aristocracy and the State . 
Perhaps always possessions have been Booty , and never anywhere has there been such a thing as house and furnishings native and natural to the women and men who made use of them . 
VI For me , at least , it marked an epoch in my uncle's career when I learnt one day that he had shopped Lady Grove . 
I realised a fresh , wide , unpreluded step . 
He took me by surprise with the sudden change of scale from such portable possessions as jewels and motor cars to a stretch of countryside . 
The transaction was Napoleonic he was told of the place he said snap there were no preliminary desirings or searchings . 
Then he came home and said what he had done . 
Even my aunt was for a day or so measurably awestricken by this exploit in purchase , and we both went down with him to see the house in a mood near consternation . 
It struck us then as a very lordly place indeed . 
I remember the three of us standing on the terrace that looked westward , surveying the sky reflecting windows of the house , and a feeling of unwarrantable intrusion comes back to me . 
An old Catholic family had died out in it , century by century , and was now altogether dead . 
It is a very high terrace southward one looks down upon the tops of wayfaring trees and spruces , and westward on a steep slope of beechwood , through which the road comes . 
One turns back to the still old house , and sees a grey and lichenous facade with a very finely arched entrance . 
It was warmed by the afternoon light and touched with the colour of a few neglected roses and a pyracanthus . 
My aunt made him no answer . 
The man who built this , I speculated , wore armour and carried a sword . 
There's some of it inside still , said my uncle . 
An old woman with very white hair was in charge of the place and cringed rather obviously to the new master . 
She evidently found him a very strange and frightful apparition indeed , and was dreadfully afraid of him . 
But if the surviving present bowed down to us , the past did not . 
We stood up to the dark , long portraits of the extinguished race one was a Holbein and looked them in their sidelong eyes . 
They looked back at us . 
We all , I know , felt the enigmatical quality in them . 
Even my uncle was momentarily embarrassed , I think , by that invincibly self complacent expression . 
It was just as though , after all , he had not bought them up and replaced them altogether as though that , secretly , they knew better and could smile at him . 
The spirit of the place was akin to Bladesover , but touched with something older and remoter . 
Yes , it was different from Bladesover . 
Bit stuffy , George , said my uncle . 
They hadn't much idea of ventilation when this was built . 
One of the panelled rooms was half filled with presses and a four poster bed . 
What living thing now had any concern with their honour and judgments and good and evil deeds ? Ghosts and witchcraft were a later innovation that fashion came from Scotland with the Stuarts . 
Ichabod , said my uncle . 
Eh ? We shall be like that , Susan , some day . 
I'm going to clean him up a bit and put a railing to keep off the children . 
Old saved at the eleventh hour , said my aunt , quoting one of the less successful advertisements of Tono Bungay . 
But I don't think my uncle heard her . 
It was by our captured crusader that the vicar found us . 
He came round the corner at us briskly , a little out of breath . 
He had an air of having been running after us since the first toot of our horn had warned the village of our presence . 
These Oxford men are the Greeks of our plutocratic empire . 
Anyhow , we were English , and neither Dissenters nor Socialists , and he was cheerfully prepared to do what he could to make gentlemen of both of us . 
They were a common type , no doubt , but they were new to me . 
There were two lank sons who had been playing singles at tennis , red eared youths growing black moustaches , and dressed in conscientiously untidy tweeds and unbuttoned and ungirt Norfolk jackets . 
There was , moreover , an ambiguous , silent lady that my aunt subsequently decided must be a very deaf paying guest . 
Two or three other people had concealed themselves at our coming and left unfinished teas behind them . 
Rugs and cushions lay among the chairs , and two of the latter were , I noted , covered with Union Jacks . 
I had just snatches of that conversation . 
Mrs. Merridew brought him quite a lot of money . 
Her father , I believe , had been in the Spanish wine trade quite a lady though . 
And after that he fell off his horse and cracked his brain pan and took to fishing and farming . 
I'm sure you'll like to know them . 
The daughter had a disappointment and went to China as a missionary and got mixed up in a massacre . 
The most beautiful silks and things she brought back , you'd hardly believe ! Yes , they gave them to propitiate her . 
You see , they didn't understand the difference , and they thought that as they'd been massacring people , THEY'D be massacred . 
They didn't understand the difference Christianity makes . 
Seven bishops they've had in the family ! Married a Papist and was quite lost to them . 
He failed some dreadful examination and had to go into the militia . 
So she bit his leg as hard as ever she could and he let go . 
Had four of his ribs amputated . 
Caught meningitis and was carried off in a week . 
Had to have a large piece of silver tube let into his throat , and if he wants to talk he puts his finger on it . 
It makes him so interesting , I think . 
You feel he's sincere somehow . 
A most charming man in every way . 
Preserved them both in spirits very luckily , and there they are in his study , though of course he doesn't show them to everybody . 
Meanwhile we men conversed , one of the more spirited daughters listened brightly , and the youths lay on the grass at our feet . 
My uncle offered them cigars , but they both declined , out of bashfulness , it seemed to me , whereas the vicar , I think , accepted out of tact . 
When we were not looking at them directly , these young men would kick each other furtively . 
Under the influence of my uncle's cigar , the vicar's mind had soared beyond the limits of the district . 
This Socialism , he said , seems making great headway . 
My uncle shook his head . 
We're too individualistic in this country for that sort of nonsense , he said Everybody's business is nobody's business . 
That's where they go wrong . 
They have some intelligent people in their ranks , I am told , said the vicar , writers and so forth . 
Quite a distinguished playwright , my eldest daughter was telling me I forget his name . 
Milly , dear ! Oh ! she's not here . 
Painters , too , they have . 
This Socialist , it seems to me , is part of the Unrest of the Age . 
But , as you say , the spirit of the people is against it . 
In the country , at any rate . 
The people down here are too sturdily independent in their small way and too sensible altogether . 
It's a great thing for Duffield to have Lady Grove occupied again , he was saying when my wandering attention came back from some attractive casualty in his wife's discourse . 
People have always looked up to the house and considering all things , old Mr. Durgan really was extraordinarily good extraordinarily good . 
You intend to give us a good deal of your time here , I hope . 
I mean to do my duty by the Parish , said my uncle . 
I'm sincerely glad to hear it sincerely . 
We've missed the house influence . 
An English village isn't complete People get out of hand . 
The young people drift away to London . 
He enjoyed his cigar gingerly for a moment . 
We shall look to you to liven things up , he said , poor man ! My uncle cocked his cigar and removed it from his mouth . 
What you think the place wants ? he asked . 
He did not wait for an answer . 
I been thinking while you been talking things one might do . 
Cricket a good English game sports . 
Build the chaps a pavilion perhaps . 
Then every village ought to have a miniature rifle range . 
Ye ees , said the vicar . 
Provided , of course , there isn't a constant popping . 
Manage that all right , said my uncle . 
Thing'd be a sort of long shed . 
Then there's a Union Jack for the church and the village school . 
Paint the school red , too , p'raps . 
Not enough colour about now . 
How far our people would take up that sort of thing began the vicar . 
I'm all for getting that good old English spirit back again , said my uncle . 
Lads and lasses dancing on the village green . 
Yule Log all the rest of it . 
How would old Sally Glue do for a May Queen ? asked one of the sons in the slight pause that followed . 
Or Annie Glassbound ? said the other , with the huge virile guffaw of a young man whose voice has only recently broken . 
Sally Glue is eighty five , explained the vicar , and Annie Glassbound is well a young lady of extremely generous proportions . 
And not quite right , you know . 
Generous proportions ! said the eldest son , and the guffaws were renewed . 
You see , said the vicar , all the brisker girls go into service in or near London . 
The life of excitement attracts them . 
And no doubt the higher wages have something to do with it . 
And the liberty to wear finery . 
And generally freedom from restraint . 
So that there might be a little diffculty perhaps to find a May Queen here just at present who was really young and er pretty . 
Of course I couldn't think of any of my girls or anything of that sort . 
We got to attract 'em back , said my uncle . 
That's what I feel about it . 
We got to Buck Up the country . 
The English country is a going concern still just as the Established Church if you'll excuse me saying it , is a going concern . 
Just as Oxford is or Cambridge . 
Or any of those old , fine old things . 
Only it wants fresh capital , fresh idees and fresh methods . 
Light railways , f'rinstance scientific use of drainage . 
Wire fencing machinery all that . 
The vicar's face for one moment betrayed dismay . 
Perhaps he was thinking of his country walks amids the hawthorns and honeysuckle . 
There's great things , said my uncle , to be done on Mod'un lines with Village Jam and Pickles boiled in the country . 
Two men and one old woman made gestures of abject vassalage , and my uncle replied with a lordly gesture of his great motoring glove . 
England's full of Bits like this , said my uncle , leaning over the front seat and looking back with great satisfaction . 
The black glare of his goggles rested for a time on the receding turrets of Lady Grove just peeping over the trees . 
I shall have a flagstaff , I think , he considered . 
Then one could show when one is in residence . 
The villagers will like to know . 
They're used to liking to know . 
My aunt had been unusually silent . 
He says Snap , she remarked he buys that place . 
And a nice old job of Housekeeping he gives me ! He sails through the village swelling like an old turkey . 
You old Bother ! Just when I was settling down and beginning to feel at home . 
My uncle turned his goggles to her . 
Ah ! THIS time it is home , Susan . 
For my uncle it was a period of stupendous inflation . 
Each time I met him I found him more confident , more comprehensive , more consciously a factor in great affairs . 
Soon he was no longer an associate of merely business men he was big enough for the attentions of greater powers . 
I grew used to discovering some item of personal news about him in my evening paper , or to the sight of a full page portrait of him in a sixpenny magazine . 
Usually the news was of some munificent act , some romantic piece of buying or giving or some fresh rumour of reconstruction . 
He saved , you will remember , the Parbury Reynolds for the country . 
Or at times , it would be an interview or my uncle's contribution to some symposium on the Secret of Success , or such like topic . 
Or wonderful tales of his power of work , of his wonderful organisation to get things done , of his instant decisions and remarkable power of judging his fellow men . 
They repeated his great mot Eight hour working day I want eighty hours ! He became modestly but resolutely public . 
They cartooned him in Vanity Fair . 
I shared only intermittently in his social experiences . 
He was always offering me winners no doubt in a spirit of anticipatory exchange for some really good thing in our more scientific and certain method of getting something for nothing . 
I saw the statesmen without their orders and the bishops with but a little purple silk left over from their canonicals , inhaling , not incensen but cigar smoke . 
Wandering marginally through distinguished gatherings , I would catch the whispers That's Mr. Ponderevo ! The little man ? Yes , the little bounder with the glasses . 
They were the very gestures of our first encounter when he had stood before the empty fireplace in his minute draped parlour and talked of my future to my mother . 
In those measurelessly long hot afternoons in the little shop at Wimblehurst he had talked and dreamt of the Romance of Modern Commerce . 
Here , surely , was his romance come true . 
He was always imaginative , erratic , inconsistent , recklessly inexact , and his inundation of wealth merely gave him scope for these qualities . 
But I find it hard either to judge him or convey the full development of him to the reader . 
I saw too much of him my memory is choked with disarranged moods and aspects . 
It was one of many similar conversations , and I do not know why it in particular should survive its fellows . 
I , in a moment of even rasher generosity , had suggested Ewart as a possible artist . 
After that came a series of vexatious delays . 
The chalice became less and less of a commercial man's chalice , acquired more and more the elusive quality of the Holy Grail , and at last even the drawing receded . 
You see , George , they'll begin to want the blasted thing ! What blasted thing ? That chalice , damn it ! They're beginning to ask questions . 
It isn't Business , George . 
It's art , I protested , and religion . 
But it's not a good ad for us , George , to make a promise and not deliver the goods . 
I'll have to write off your friend Ewart as a bad debt , that's what it comes to , and go to a decent firm . 
We sat outside on deck chairs in the veranda of the pavilion , smoked , drank whisky , and , the chalice disposed of , meditated . 
It was an altogether splendid summer night , following a blazing , indolent day . 
The season must have been high June , for down in the woods that hid the lights of the Lady Grove windows , I remember the nightingales thrilled and gurgled . 
We got here , George , said my uncle , ending a long pause . 
Didn't I say ? Say ! when ? I asked . 
In that hole in the To'nem Court Road , eh ? It's been a Straight Square Fight , and here we are ! I nodded . 
'Member me telling you Tono Bungay ? . 
I'd just that afternoon thought of it ! I've fancied at times I admitted . 
It's a great world , George , nowadays , with a fair chance for every one who lays hold of things . 
The career ouvert to the Talons eh ? Tono Bungay . 
Think of it ! It's a great world and a growing world , and I'm glad we're in it and getting a pull . 
We're getting big people , George . 
Eh ? This Palestine thing . 
He meditated for a time and Zzzzed softly . 
His theme was taken up by a cricket in the grass until he himself was ready to resume it . 
The cricket too seemed to fancy that in some scheme of its own it had got there . 
Lord , what a place that was at Wimblehurst ! he broke out . 
If ever I get a day off we'll motor there , George , and run over that dog that sleeps in the High Street . 
Always was a dog asleep there always . 
I'd like to see the old shop again . 
Wonder if they know it's me ? I'd like 'em somehow to know it's me . 
They'll have had the International Tea Company and all sorts of people cutting them up , I said . 
And that dog's been on the pavement this six years can't sleep even there , poor dear , because of the motor horns and its shattered nerves . 
Movin' everywhere , said my uncle . 
It's a big time we're in , George . 
It's a big Progressive On coming Imperial Time . 
This Palestine business the daring of it . 
It's , it's a Process , George . 
And we got our hands on it . 
Here we sit with our hands on it , George . 
It seems quiet to night . 
But if we could see and hear . 
He waved his cigar towards Leatherhead and London . 
There they are , millions , George . 
Jes' think of what they've been up to to day those ten millions each one doing his own particular job . 
It's like old Whitman says what is it he says ? Well , anyway it's like old Whitman . 
Fine chap , Whitman ! Fine old chap ! Queer , you can't quote him . 
And these millions aren't anything . 
There's the millions over seas , hundreds of millions , Chinese , M'rocco , Africa generally , 'Merica . 
See ? Here we are with our hands on it . 
In a sort of way , Forces . 
It's wonderful , George , he said . 
Anglo Saxon energy , I said softly to the night . 
That's it , George energy . 
Running it faster and faster . 
There's that Palestine canal affair . 
He mused for a space . 
Cuttin' canals , murmured my uncle . 
I wonder where we shall get before we done , George ? We got a lot of big things going . 
We got the investing public sound and sure . 
I don't see why in the end we shouldn't be very big . 
There's diffculties but I'm equal to them . 
We're still a bit soft in our bones , but they'll harden all right . 
I suppose , after all , I'm worth something like a million , George , cleared up and settled . 
If I got out of things now . 
It's a great time , George , a wonderful time ! . 
I glanced through the twilight at his convexity and I must confess it struck me that on the whole he wasn't particularly good value . 
We got our hands on things , George , us big people . 
We got to hang together , George run the show . 
Join up with the old order like that mill wheel of Kipling's . 
Well , we got to run the country , George . 
Make it a Scientific Organised Business Enterprise . 
Run all sorts of developments . 
I been talking to Lord Boom . 
I been talking to all sorts of people . 
The world on business lines . 
He fell into a deep meditation . 
He Zzzzed for a time and ceased . 
YES , he said at last in the tone of a man who has at last emerged with ultimate solutions to the profoundest problems . 
What ? I said after a seemly pause . 
My uncle hung fire for a moment and it seemed to me the fate of nations trembled in the balance . 
Then he spoke as one who speaks from the very bottom of his heart and I think it was the very bottom of his heart . 
Jes' exactly what I think of them . 
It's a little thing , but I'd like to do it jes' once before I die . 
He rested on that for some time Zzzz ing . 
Then he broke out at a new place in a tone of detached criticism . 
There's Boom , he reflected . 
It's a wonderful system this old British system , George . 
It's staid and stable and yet it has a place for new men . 
We come up and take our places . 
That's where our Democracy differs from America . 
Over there a man succeeds all he gets is money . 
Here there's a system open to every one practically . 
Chaps like Boom come from nowhere . 
I reflected upon the spirit of his words . 
Suddenly I kicked my feet in the air , rolled on my side and sat up suddenly on my deck chair with my legs down . 
You don't mean it ! I said . 
Mean what , George ? Subscription to the party funds . 
Have we got to that ? Whad you driving at , George ? You know . 
They'd never do it , man ! Do what ? he said feebly and , Why shouldn't they ? They'd not even go to a baronetcy . 
And yet , of course , there's Boom ! And Collingshead and Gorver . 
They've done beer , they've done snippets ! After all Tono Bungay it's not like a turf commission agent or anything like that ! . 
There have of course been some very gentlemanly commission agents . 
It isn't like a fool of a scientific man who can't make money ! My uncle grunted we'd differed on that issue before . 
A malignant humour took possession of me . 
What would they call you ? I speculated . 
The vicar would like Duffield . 
Too much like Duffer ! Difficult thing , a title . 
I ran my mind over various possibilities . 
Why not take a leaf from a socialist tract I came upon yesterday . 
Chap says we're all getting delocalised . 
Beautiful word delocalised ! Why not be the first delocalised peer ? That gives you Tono Bungay ! There is a Bungay , you know . 
Lord Tono of Bungay in bottles everywhere . 
Eh ? My uncle astonished me by losing his temper . 
George , you don't seem to see I'm serious ! You're always sneering at Tono Bungay ! As though it was some sort of swindle . 
It was perfec'ly legitimate trade , perfec'ly legitimate . 
Good value and a good article . 
When I come up here and tell you plans and exchange idees you sneer at me . 
You don't see it's a big thing . 
You got to get used to new circumstances . 
You got to face what lies before us . 
You got to drop that tone . 
IX My uncle was not altogether swallowed up in business and ambition . 
He kept in touch with modern thought . 
For example , he was , I know , greatly swayed by what he called This Overman idee , Nietzsche all that stuff . 
He mingled those comforting suggestions of a potent and exceptional human being emancipated from the pettier limitations of integrity with the Napoleonic legend . 
It gave his imagination a considerable outlet . 
That Napoleonic legend ! The real mischief of Napoleon's immensely disastrous and accidental career began only when he was dead and the romantic type of mind was free to elaborate his character . 
I do believe that my uncle would have made a far less egregious smash if there had been no Napoleonic legend to misguide him . 
He was in many ways better and infinitely kinder than his career . 
The Durgans watched him through it all , sardonically . 
Suggestion plays so great a part in this field . 
My uncle took the next opportunity and had an affair ! It was not a very impassioned affair , and the exact particulars never of course reached me . 
It is quite by chance I know anything of it at all . 
I elbowed a large lady who was saying something about them , but I didn't need to hear the thing she said to perceive the relationship of the two . 
It hit me like a placard on a hoarding . 
I was amazed the whole gathering did not see it . 
It is so much more palpable than matrimony . 
If anything was wanted to complete my conviction it was my uncles's eyes when presently he became aware of mine , a certain embarrassment and a certain pride and defiance . 
And the next day he made an opportunity to praise the lady's intelligence to me concisely , lest I should miss the point of it all . 
After that I heard some gossip from a friend of the lady's . 
I was much too curious to do anything but listen . 
I had never in all my life imagined my uncle in an amorous attitude . 
It would appear that she called him her God in the Car after the hero in a novel of Anthony Hope's . 
It was essential to the convention of their relations that he should go relentlessly whenever business called , and it was generally arranged that it did call . 
To him women were an incident , it was understood between them Ambition was the master passion . 
A great world called him and the noble hunger for Power . 
There must have been some extraordinary moments . 
I was a good deal exercised and distressed about my aunt when I realised what was afoot . 
I thought it would prove a terrible humiliation to her . 
I suspected her of keeping up a brave front with the loss of my uncle's affections fretting at her heart , but there I simply underestimated her . 
She didn't hear for some time and when she did hear she was extremely angry and energetic . 
The sentimental situation didn't trouble her for a moment . 
She decided that my uncle wanted smacking . 
I tried to bring her to a proper sense of the accepted values in this affair , but my aunt's originality of outlook was never so invincible . 
Men don't tell on one another in affairs of passion , I protested , and such like worldly excuses . 
But this is old nonsense . 
I'm not going to let him show off what a silly old lobster he is to other women . 
I'll mark every scrap of his underclothes with red letters , 'Ponderevo Private' every scrap . 
Going about making love indeed , in abdominal belts ! at his time of life ! I cannot imagine what passed between her and my uncle . 
But I have no doubt that for once her customary badinage was laid aside . 
How they talked then I do not know , for I who knew them so well had never heard that much of intimacy between them . 
And it was evident that in all directions he was finding things unusually difficult to explain . 
All the intimate moments in this affair were hidden from me , but in the end my aunt triumphed . 
My aunt did not appear in that , even remotely . 
So that it is doubtful if the lady knew the real causes of her abandonment . 
The Napoleonic hero was practically unmarried , and he threw over his lady as Napoleon threw over Josephine for a great alliance . 
It was a triumph for my aunt , but it had its price . 
For some time it was evident things were strained between them . 
He gave up the lady , but he resented having to do so , deeply . 
She had meant more to his imagination than one could have supposed . 
He wouldn't for a long time come round . 
They were both the poorer for its cessation , both less happy . 
She devoted herself more and more to Lady Grove and the humours and complications of its management . 
The servants took to her as they say she god mothered three Susans during her rule , the coachman's , the gardener's , and the Up Hill gamekeeper's . 
She got together a library of old household books that were in the vein of the place . 
She revived the still room , and became a great artist in jellies and elder and cowslip wine . 
I believe that a haunting sense of the intensifying unsoundness of his position accounts largely for his increasing irritability and his increasing secretiveness with my aunt and myself during these crowning years . 
He dreaded , I think , having to explain , he feared our jests might pierce unwittingly to the truth . 
Even in the privacy of his mind he would not face the truth . 
He was accumulating unrealisable securities in his safes until they hung a potential avalanche over the economic world . 
But his buying became a fever , and his restless desire to keep it up with himself that he was making a triumphant progress to limitless wealth gnawed deeper and deeper . 
A curious feature of this time with him was his buying over and over again of similar things . 
His ideas seemed to run in series . 
He used them more and more . 
He developed a passion for locomotion for its own sake . 
Then he began to chafe at Lady Grove , fretted by a chance jest he had overheard at a dinner . 
This house , George , he said . 
There's no elbow room in it it's choked with old memories . 
And I can't stand all these damned Durgans ! That chap in the corner , George . 
No ! the other corner ! The man in a cherry coloured coat . 
He watched you ! He'd look silly if I stuck a poker through his Gizzard ! He'd look , I reflected , much as he does now . 
As though he was amused . 
He replaced his glasses , which had fallen at his emotion , and glared at his antagonists . 
What are they ? What are they all , the lot of 'em ? Dead as Mutton ! They just stuck in the mud . 
They didn't even rise to the Reformation . 
The old out of date Reformation ! Move with the times ! they moved against the times . 
Just a Family of Failure , they never even tried ! They're jes' , George , exactly what I'm not . 
All this living in the Past . 
And I want a bigger place too , George . 
I want air and sunlight and room to move about and more service . 
A house where you can get a Move on things ! Zzzz . 
Why ! it's like a discord it jars even to have the telephone . 
There's nothing , nothing except the terrace , that's worth a Rap . 
It's all dark and old and dried up and full of old fashioned things musty old idees fitter for a silver fish than a modern man . 
I don't know how I got here . 
He broke out into a new grievance . 
That damned vicar , he complained , thinks I ought to think myself lucky to get this place ! Every time I meet him I can see him think it . 
One of these days , George I'll show him what a Mod'un house is like ! And he did . 
I remember the day when he declared , as Americans say , for Crest Hill . 
Let's go back to Lady Grove over the hill , he said . 
Something I want to show you . 
A beautiful peace , it was , to wreck for ever . 
He began with a wave of his arm . 
That's the place , George , he said . 
See ? Eh ! I cried for I had been thinking of remote things . 
Got what ? For a house ! a Twentieth Century house ! That's the place for it ! One of his characteristic phrases was begotten in him . 
Four square to the winds of heaven , George ! he said . 
Eh ? Four square to the winds of heaven ! You'll get the winds up here , I said . 
A mammoth house it ought to be , George to suit these hills . 
Great galleries and things running out there and there See ? I been thinking of it , George ! Looking out all this way across the Weald . 
With its back to Lady Grove . 
And the morning sun in its eye . 
Like an eagle , George , like an eagle ! So he broached to me what speedily became the leading occupation of his culminating years , Crest Hill . 
In addition he had his own ideas . 
The thing occupied his mind at all times , but it held it completely from Friday night to Monday morning . 
He would come down to Lady Grove on Friday night in a crowded motor car that almost dripped architects . 
There he stands in my memory , the symbol of this age for me , the man of luck and advertisement , the current master of the world . 
Below are hundreds of feet of wheeling planks , ditches , excavations , heaps of earth , piles of garden stone from the Wealden ridges . 
So he poses for my picture amidst the raw beginnings that were never to be completed . 
He did the strangest things about that place , things more and more detached from any conception of financial scale , things more and more apart from sober humanity . 
He seemed to think himself , at last , released from any such limitations . 
He moved a quite considerable hill , and nearly sixty mature trees were moved with it to open his prospect eastward , moved it about two hundred feet to the south . 
At another time he caught a suggestion from some city restaurant and made a billiard room roofed with plate glass beneath the waters of his ornamental lake . 
He furnished one wing while its roof still awaited completion . 
It was a ten foot wall , glass surmounted , and had it been completed as he intended it , it would have had a total length of nearly eleven miles . 
Some of it towards the last was so dishonestly built that it collapsed within a year upon its foundations , but some miles of it still stand . 
It is curious how many of these modern financiers of chance and bluff have ended their careers by building . 
It was not merely my uncle . 
Then the whole fabric of confidence and imagination totters and down they come . 
Almost you convince me , he said , coming up to me , against my will . 
A marvellous invention ! But it will take you a long time , sir , before you can emulate that perfect mechanism the wing of a bird . 
He looked at my sheds . 
You've changed the look of this valley , too , he said . 
Temporary defilements , I remarked , guessing what was in his mind . 
I've just been up over the hill to look at Mr. Edward Ponderevo's new house . 
That that is something more permanent . 
A magnificent place ! in many ways . 
I've never somehow brought myself to go that way before . 
We find the great number of strangers introduced into the villages about here by these operations , working men chiefly , a little embarrassing . 
They bring a new spirit into the place betting ideas all sorts of queer notions . 
Our publicans like it , of course . 
And they come and sleep in one's outhouses and make the place a little unsafe at nights . 
The other morning I couldn't sleep a slight dyspepsia and I looked out of the window . 
I was amazed to see people going by on bicycles . 
I counted ninety seven in the dawn . 
All going up to the new road for Crest Hill . 
And so I've been up to see what they were doing . 
They would have been more than remarkable thirty years ago , I said . 
We think nothing of it now at all comparatively . 
And that big house He raised his eyebrows . 
All the hillside the old turf cut to ribbons ! His eye searched my face . 
We've grown so accustomed to look up to Lady Grove , he said , and smiled in search of sympathy . 
It shifts our centre of gravity . 
Things will readjust themselves , I lied . 
He snatched at the phrase . 
Of course , he said . 
They'll readjust themselves settle down again . 
It's bound to come right again a comforting thought . 
After all , Lady Grove itself had to be built once upon a time was to begin with artificial . 
His eye returned to my aeroplane . 
He sought to dismiss his graver preoccupations . 
I should think twice , he remarked , before I trusted myself to that concern . 
But I suppose one grows accustomed to the motion . 
He bade me good morning and went his way , bowed and thoughtful . 
This work was indeed the main substance of my life through all the great time of the Tono Bungay symphony . 
From the first I did well at this work . 
It was , I think , largely a case of special aptitude , of a peculiar irrelevant vein of faculty running through my mind . 
These things are to be found in the Philosophical Transactions , the Mathematical Journal , and less frequently in one or two other such publications , and they needn't detain us here . 
Indeed , I doubt if I could write about them here . 
One acquires a sort of shorthand for one's notes and mind in relation to such special work . 
My work was , to begin with , very largely theoretical . 
But a time came when incalculable factors crept in , factors of human capacity and factors of insufficient experimental knowledge , when one must needs guess and try . 
Then I had to enlarge the scale of my operations , and soon I had enlarged them very greatly . 
I set to work almost concurrently on the balance and stability of gliders and upon the steering of inflated bags , the latter a particularly expensive branch of work . 
I was no doubt moved by something of the same spirit of lavish expenditure that was running away with my uncle in these developments . 
A rough road was made . 
We brought up gas from Cheaping and electricity from Woking , which place I found also afforded a friendly workshop for larger operations than I could manage . 
I had the luck also to find a man who seemed my heaven sent second in command Cothope his name was . 
He was a self educated man he had formerly been a sapper and he was one of the best and handiest working engineers alive . 
Without him I do not think I could have achieved half what I have done . 
At times he has been not so much my assistant as my collaborator , and has followed my fortunes to this day . 
Other men came and went as I needed them . 
It is a different thing from any other sort of human effort . 
You are free from the exasperating conflict with your fellow creatures altogether at least so far as the essential work goes that for me is its peculiar merit . 
She is reality , the one reality I have found in this strange disorder of existence . 
She will not sulk with you nor misunderstand you nor cheat you of your reward upon some petty doubt . 
You cannot change her by advertisement or clamour , nor stifle her in vulgarities . 
Things grow under your hands when you serve her , things that are permanent as nothing else is permanent in the whole life of man . 
That , I think , is the peculiar satisfaction of science and its enduring reward . 
The taking up of experimental work produced a great change in my personal habits . 
And I parted with much of my personal pride when I gave up science for the development of Tono Bungay . 
But my poverty kept me abstinent and my youthful romanticism kept me chaste until my married life was well under way . 
Then in all directions I relaxed . 
With the coming of plenty I ate abundantly and foolishly , drank freely and followed my impulses more and more carelessly . 
I felt no reason why I should do anything else . 
Never at any point did I use myself to the edge of my capacity . 
The emotional crisis of my divorce did not produce any immediate change in these matters of personal discipline . 
I found some difficulty at first in concentrating my mind upon scientific work , it was so much more exacting than business , but I got over that difficulty by smoking . 
I became an inordinate cigar smoker it gave me moods of profound depression , but I treated these usually by the homeopathic method , by lighting another cigar . 
I got into this relaxed habit of living in spite of very real tendencies in my nature towards discipline . 
I've never been in love with self indulgence . 
That philosophy of the loose lip and the lax paunch is one for which I've always had an instinctive distrust . 
I like bare things , stripped things , plain , austere and continent things , fine lines and cold colours . 
Now , if only he pitch his standard low enough and keep free from pride , almost any one can achieve a sort of excess . 
So I think it was with my uncle so , very nearly , it was with me . 
But the glider brought me up smartly . 
I had to find out how these things went down the air , and the only way to find out is to go down with one . 
And for a time I wouldn't face it . 
There is something impersonal about a book , I suppose . 
I believed that with a dawn like lucidity . 
I had begun with a glider that I imagined was on the lines of the Wright brothers' aeroplane , but I could not be sure . 
It might burrow its nose at the end and smash itself and me . 
The conditions of the flight necessitated alert attention it wasn't a thing to be done by jumping off and shutting one's eyes or getting angry or drunk to do it . 
One had to use one's weight to balance . 
And when at last I did it it was horrible for ten seconds . 
I set my teeth and groaned . 
It was a groan wrung out of me in spite of myself . 
My sensations of terror swooped to a climax . 
And then , you know , they ended ! Suddenly my terror was over and done with . 
I was soaring through the air right way up , steadily , and no mischance had happened . 
I felt intensely alive and my nerves were strung like a bow . 
I shifted a limb , swerved and shouted between fear and triumph as I recovered from the swerve and heeled the other way and steadied myself . 
Then I saw the shadow of my aeroplane keeping a fixed distance before me and very steady , and the turf as it seemed streaming out behind it . 
The turf ! it wasn't after all streaming so impossibly fast . 
I tilted up her nose at the right moment , levelled again and grounded like a snowflake on a windless day . 
I lay flat for an instant and then knelt up and got on my feet atremble , but very satisfied with myself . 
Cothope was running down the hill to me . 
But from that day I went into training , and I kept myself in training for many months . 
The shame of that cowardice spurred me none the less because it was probably altogether my own secret . 
I felt that Cothope at any rate might suspect . 
Well , he shouldn't suspect again . 
It is curious that I remember that shame and self accusation and its consequences far more distinctly than I recall the weeks of vacillation before I soared . 
For a time I went altogether without alcohol , I stopped smoking altogether and ate very sparingly , and every day I did something that called a little upon my nerves and muscles . 
I soared as frequently as I could . 
I substituted a motor bicycle for the London train and took my chances in the southward traffic , and I even tried what thrills were to be got upon a horse . 
But they put me on made horses , and I conceived a perhaps unworthy contempt for the certitudes of equestrian exercise in comparison with the adventures of mechanism . 
Also I walked along the high wall at the back of Lady Grove garden , and at last brought myself to stride the gap where the gate comes . 
If I didn't altogether get rid of a certain giddy instinct by such exercises , at least I trained my will until it didn't matter . 
My uncle had been bothering me about the Crest Hill hot water pipes , and we were returning by a path transverse to theirs and came out upon them suddenly . 
Old Carnaby was trespassing on our ground , and so he hailed us in a friendly fashion and pulled up to talk to us . 
I didn't note Beatrice at all at first . 
I was interested in Lord Carnaby , that remarkable vestige of his own brilliant youth . 
I had heard of him , but never seen him . 
He was a lean little man with grey blue eyes in his brown face , and his cracked voice was the worst thing in his effect . 
Thought I'd make a show for once , said my uncle . 
It looks big because it's spread out for the sun . 
Air and sunlight , said the earl . 
You can't have too much of them . 
But before our time they used to build for shelter and water and the high road . 
Then I discovered that the silent figure behind the earl was Beatrice . 
I'd forgotten her sufficiently to think for a moment that she hadn't changed at all since she had watched me from behind the skirts of Lady Drew . 
Her shaded eyes met mine with that mute question . 
It seemed incredible to me she didn't remember . 
Well , said the earl and touched his horse . 
Garvell was patting the neck of his horse , which was inclined to fidget , and disregarding me . 
He nodded over his shoulder and followed . 
His movement seemed to release a train of memories in her . 
She glanced suddenly at him and then back at me with a flash of recognition that warmed instantly to a faint smile . 
She hesitated as if to speak to me , smiled broadly and understandingly and turned to follow the others . 
All three broke into a canter and she did not look back . 
I turned about and strode to overtake him . 
My mind was full of Beatrice and this surprise . 
I remembered her simply as a Normandy . 
I'd clean forgotten that Garvell was the son and she the step daughter of our neighbour , Lady Osprey . 
Indeed , I'd probably forgotten at that time that we had Lady Osprey as a neighbour . 
There was no reason at all for remembering it . 
She was so alive so unchanged ! The same quick warm blood was in her cheeks . 
It seemed only yesterday that we had kissed among the bracken stems . 
I say he's good stuff , said my uncle . 
You can say what you like against the aristocracy , George Lord Carnaby's rattling good stuff . 
There's a sort of Savoir Faire , something it's an old fashioned phrase , George , but a good one there's a Bong Tong . 
It's like the Oxford turf , George , you can't grow it in a year . 
I wonder how they do it . 
It's living always on a Scale , George . 
It's being there from the beginning . 
That and leisure , George . 
When I was a young man I was kept pretty busy . 
Now when my senses were full of her , it seemed incredible that I could ever have forgotten . 
III Oh , Crikey ! said my aunt , reading a letter behind her coffee machine . 
HERE'S a young woman , George ! We were breakfasting together in the big window bay at Lady Grove that looks upon the iris beds my uncle was in London . 
I sounded an interrogative note and decapitated an egg . 
Who's Beatrice Normandy ? asked my aunt . 
I've not heard of her before . 
She the young woman ? Yes . 
I'm no hand at old etiquette , George , but her line is a bit unusual . 
Practically she says she's going to make her mother Eh ? Step mother , isn't it ? You seem to know a lot about her . 
She says 'mother' Lady Osprey . 
They're to call on me , anyhow , next Wednesday week at four , and there's got to be you for tea . 
Eh ? You for tea . 
She had rather force of character . 
When I knew her before . 
I became aware of my aunt's head sticking out obliquely from behind the coffee machine and regarding me with wide blue curiosity . 
I met her gaze for a moment , flinched , coloured , and laughed . 
I've known her longer than I've known you , I said , and explained at length . 
My aunt kept her eye on me over and round the coffee machine as I did so . 
She was greatly interested , and asked several elucidatory questions . 
Why didn't you tell me the day you saw her ? You've had her on your mind for a week , she said . 
It IS odd I didn't tell you , I admitted . 
You thought I'd get a Down on her , said my aunt conclusively . 
That's what you thought and opened the rest of her letters . 
The two ladies came in a pony carriage with conspicuous punctuality , and I had the unusual experience of seeing my aunt entertaining callers . 
The one seemed made of whalebone , the other of dough . 
I felt convinced Lady Osprey would describe her as a most eccentric person on the very first opportunity a most eccentric person . 
One could see her , as people say , shaping for that . 
Beatrice was dressed very quietly in brown , with a simple but courageous broad brimmed hat , and an unexpected quality of being grown up and responsible . 
We haven't met , she said , since It was in the Warren . 
Of course , she said , the Warren ! I remembered it all except just the name . 
Her smiling eyes insisted on my memories being thorough . 
I looked up and met them squarely , a little at a loss for what I should say . 
I gave you away pretty completely , she said , meditating upon my face . 
And afterwards I gave way Archie . 
She turned her face away from the others , and her voice fell ever so little . 
They gave him a licking for telling lies ! she said , as though that was a pleasant memory . 
And when it was all over I went to our wigwam . 
You remember the wigwam ? Out in the West Wood ? Yes and cried for all the evil I had done you , I suppose . 
I've often thought of it since . 
Lady Osprey stopped for us to overtake her . 
My dear ! she said to Beatrice . 
Such a beautiful gallery ! Then she stared very hard at me , puzzled in the most naked fashion to understand who I might be . 
People say the oak staircase is rather good , said my aunt , and led the way . 
The chief meaning no doubt was caution about myself , but much of it was just meaning at large . 
I chanced to catch the response in a mirror and detected Beatrice with her nose wrinkled into a swift and entirely diabolical grimace . 
Lady Osprey became a deeper shade of pink and speechless with indignation it was evident she disavowed all further responsibility , as she followed my aunt upstairs . 
She stood a step up , so that she looked down a little upon me and over me at the old hall . 
She turned upon me abruptly when she thought her step mother was beyond ear shot . 
But how did you get here ? she asked . 
She indicated space and leisure by a wave of the hand at hall and tall windows and sunlit terrace . 
Weren't you the housekeeper's son ? I've adventured . 
My uncle has become a great financier . 
He used to be a little chemist about twenty miles from Bladesover . 
We're promoters now , amalgamators , big people on the new model . 
She regarded me with interested eyes , visibly thinking me out . 
And you recognised me ? I asked . 
After a second or so . 
I saw you recognised me . 
I couldn't place you , but I knew I knew you . 
Then Archie being there helped me to remember . 
I'm glad to meet again , I ventured . 
One doesn't forget those childish things . 
We regarded one another for a moment with a curiously easy and confident satisfaction in coming together again . 
I can't explain our ready zest in one another . 
We pleased each other , we had no doubt in our minds that we pleased each other . 
From the first we were at our ease with one another . 
As the four of us sat at tea together under the cedar on the terrace she asked questions about my aeronautics . 
My aunt helped with a word or so about my broken ribs . 
Lady Osprey evidently regarded flying as a most indesirable and improper topic a blasphemous intrusion upon the angels . 
It isn't flying , I explained . 
You never will , she said compactly . 
Well , I said , we do what we can . 
The little lady lifted a small gloved hand and indicated a height of about four feet from the ground . 
Thus far , she said , thus far AND NO FARTHER ! No ! She became emphatically pink . 
NO , she said again quite conclusively , and coughed shortly . 
Thank you , she said to her ninth or tenth cake . 
Beatrice burst into cheerful laughter with her eye on me . 
I was lying on the turf , and this perhaps caused a slight confusion about the primordial curse in Lady Osprey's mind . 
Upon his belly shall he go , she said with quiet distinctness , all the days of his life . 
After which we talked no more of aeronautics . 
She was amazingly like that little Princess of my Bladesover memories , the wilful misbehaviours of her hair seemed the same her voice things one would have expected to be changed altogether . 
She formed her plans in the same quick way , and acted with the same irresponsible decision . 
What is there beyond the terrace ? she said , and found me promptly beside her . 
I invented a view for her . 
At the further corner from the cedar she perched herself up upon the parapet and achieved an air of comfort among the lichenous stones . 
Now tell me , she said , all about yourself . 
Tell me about yourself I know such duffers of men ! They all do the same things . 
How did you get here ? All my men WERE here . 
They couldn't have got here if they hadn't been here always . 
They wouldn't have thought it right . 
If it's climbing , I said . 
She went off at a tangent . 
It's I don't know if you'll understand interesting to meet you again . 
I don't know why , but I have . 
I've used you as a sort of lay figure when I've told myself stories . 
But you've always been rather stiff and difficult in my stories in ready made clothes a Labour Member or a Bradlaugh , or something like that . 
You're not like that a bit . 
And yet you ARE ! She looked at me . 
Was it much of a fight ? They make out it is . 
I was shot up here by an accident , I said . 
There was no fight at all . 
Except to keep honest , perhaps and I made no great figure in that . 
I and my uncle mixed a medicine and it blew us up . 
No merit in that ! But you've been here all the time . 
Tell me what you have done first . 
One thing we didn't do . 
She meditated for a moment . 
What ? said I. Produce a little half brother for Bladesover . 
So it went to the Phillbrick gang . 
And they let it ! And I and my step mother we let , too . 
And live in a little house . 
She nodded her head vaguely over her shoulder and turned to me again . 
Well , suppose it was an accident . 
Here you are ! Now you're here , what are you going to do ? You're young . 
Is it to be Parliament ? heard some men the other day talking about you . 
Before I knew you were you . 
They said that was what you ought to do . 
She put me through my intentions with a close and vital curiosity . 
It was just as she had tried to imagine me a soldier and place me years ago . 
She made me feel more planless and incidental than ever . 
You want to make a flying machine , she pursued , and when you fly ? What then ? Would it be for fighting ? I told her something of my experimental work . 
She had never heard of the soaring aeroplane , and was excited by the thought , and keen to hear about it . 
She had thought all the work so far had been a mere projecting of impossible machines . 
For her Pilcher and Lilienthal had died in vain . 
She did not know such men had lived in the world . 
But that's dangerous ! she said , with a note of discovery . 
Bee atrice ! Lady Osprey called . 
Beatrice dropped from the wall to her feet . 
Where do you do this soaring ? Beyond the high Barrows . 
East of Crest Hill and the wood . 
Do you mind people coming to see ? Whenever you please . 
Only let me know I'll take my chance some day . 
She looked at me thoughtfully , smiled , and our talk was at an end . 
In the spring of that year I had got to a flying machine that lacked nothing but longitudinal stability . 
The rhythm of the pitching puzzled me . 
I felt it must obey some laws not yet quite clearly stated . 
Meanwhile I made a lot of turn table and glider models and started in upon an idea of combining gas bags and gliders . 
Balloon work was new to me . 
Lord Roberts A very nearly terminated all my investigations . 
The gas bag was of the chambered sort used for these long forms , and not with an internal balloonette . 
The trouble was to make the thing contractile . 
This I sought to do by fixing a long , fine meshed silk net over it that was fastened to be rolled up on two longitudinal rods . 
Practically I contracted my sausage gas bag by netting it down . 
The ends were too complex for me to describe here , but I thought them out elaborately and they were very carefully planned . 
Lord Roberts A was furnished with a single big screw forward , and there was a rudder aft . 
The engine was the first one to be , so to speak , right in the plane of the gas bag . 
But Lord Roberts A has been pretty exhaustively figured and described in various aeronautical publications . 
The unforeseen defect was the badness of the work in the silk netting . 
Up to that point the whole thing had been going on extremely well . 
As a navigable balloon and before I contracted it , the Lord Roberts A was an unqualified success . 
I lay in my customary glider position , horizontal and face downward , and the invisibility of all the machinery gave an extraordinary effect of independent levitation . 
I made a wide circle over Lady Grove and Duffield and out towards Effingham and came back quite successfully to the starting point . 
My shadow moved a little to the north of them like the shadow of a fish . 
At Lady Grove the servants were out on the lawn , and the Duffield school playground swarmed with children too indifferent to aeronautics to cease their playing . 
But in the Crest Hill direction the place looked extraordinarily squat and ugly from above there were knots and strings of staring workmen everywhere not one of them working , but all agape . 
Instantly the pace quickened with the diminished resistance . 
In that moment before the bang I think I must have been really flying . 
Before the net ripped , just in the instant when my balloon was at its systole , the whole apparatus was , I am convinced , heavier than air . 
That , however , is a claim that has been disputed , and in any case this sort of priority is a very trivial thing . 
Then came a sudden retardation , instantly followed by an inexpressibly disconcerting tilt downward of the machine . 
That I still recall with horror . 
I couldn't see what was happening at all and I couldn't imagine . 
It was a mysterious , inexplicable dive . 
The thing , it seemed , without rhyme or reason , was kicking up its heels in the air . 
The bang followed immediately , and I perceived I was falling rapidly . 
I was too much taken by surprise to think of the proper cause of the report . 
I don't even know what I made of it . 
I was obsessed , I suppose , by that perpetual dread of the modern aeronaut , a flash between engine and balloon . 
Yet obviously I wasn't wrapped in flames . 
I ought to have realised instantly it wasn't that . 
I don't remember doing that . 
I didn't stop or attempt to stop the screw . 
That was going on , swish , swish , swish all the time . 
Cothope really knows more about the fall than I do . 
He describes the easterly start , the tilt , and the appearance and bursting of a sort of bladder aft . 
Then down I swooped , very swiftly , but not nearly so steeply as I imagined I was doing . 
Fifteen or twenty degrees , said Cothope , to be exact . 
From him it was that I learnt that I let the nets loose again , and so arrested my fall . 
He thinks I was more in control of myself than I remember . 
But I do not see why I should have forgotten so excellent a resolution . 
His impression is that I was really steering and trying to drop into the Farthing Down beeches . 
You hit the trees , he said , and the whole affair stood on its nose among them , and then very slowly crumpled up . 
I saw you'd been jerked out , as I thought , and I didn't stay for more . 
I rushed for my bicycle . 
As a matter of fact , it was purely accidental that I came down in the woods . 
I am reasonably certain that I had no more control then than a thing in a parcel . 
I remember I felt a sort of wincing , Now it comes ! as the trees rushed up to me . 
If I remember that , I should remember steering . 
I became intensely alert and clear headed . 
I held by that branch for a moment and then looked about me , and caught at another , and then found myself holding to a practicable fork . 
I swung forward to that and got a leg around it below its junction , and so was able presently to clamber down , climbing very coolly and deliberately . 
I dropped ten feet or so from the lowest branch and fell on my feet . 
Gods ! I said , what a tumble ! I wiped something that trickled from my face and was shocked to see my hand covered with blood . 
I looked at myself and saw what seemed to me an astonishing quantity of blood running down my arm and shoulder . 
I perceived my mouth was full of blood . 
It's a queer moment when one realises one is hurt , and perhaps badly hurt , and has still to discover just how far one is hurt . 
I explored my face carefully and found unfamiliar contours on the left side . 
That and a sprained wrist were all my damage . 
But I bled as though I had been chopped to pieces , and it seemed to me that my face had been driven in . 
I can't describe just the horrible disgust I felt at that . 
This blood must be stopped , anyhow , I said , thickheadedly . 
I wonder where there's a spider's web an odd twist for my mind to take . 
But it was the only treatment that occurred to me . 
I must have conceived some idea of going home unaided , because I was thirty yards from the tree before I dropped . 
Then a kind of black disc appeared in the middle of the world and rushed out to the edge of things and blotted them out . 
I don't remember falling down . 
I fainted from excitement , disgust at my injury and loss of blood , and lay there until Cothope found me . 
He was the first to find me , scorching as he did over the downland turf , and making a wide course to get the Carnaby plantations at their narrowest . 
Then presently , while he was trying to apply the methodical teachings of the St . 
And cool as a cucumber , too , said Cothope , turning it over in his mind as he told me . 
Also he witnessed she acted with remarkable decision . 
The question was whether I should be taken to the house her step mother occupied at Bedley Corner , the Carnaby dower house , or down to Carnaby's place at Easting . 
Beatrice had no doubt in the matter , for she meant to nurse me . 
Carnaby didn't seem to want that to happen . 
She WOULD have it wasn't half so far , said Cothope . 
I hate to be faced out of my opinion , so I've taken a pedometer over it since . 
It's exactly forty three yards further . 
Lord Carnaby looked at her pretty straight , said Cothope , finishing the picture and then he give in . 
V But my story has made a jump from June to October , and during that time my relations with Beatrice and the countryside that was her setting had developed in many directions . 
At home they obeyed the rule of an inflexible old maid , Charlotte , and Beatrice exercised all the rights of proprietorship in Carnaby's extensive stables . 
Her interest in me was from the first undisguised . 
She found her way to my worksheds and developed rapidly , in spite of the sincere discouragement of Cothope , into a keen amateur of aeronautics . 
She would come sometimes in the morning , sometimes in the afternoon , sometimes afoot with an Irish terrier , sometimes riding . 
She would come for three or four days every day , vanish for a fortnight or three weeks , return . 
It was not long before I came to look for her . 
From the first I found her immensely interesting . 
To me she was a new feminine type altogether I have made it plain , I think , how limited was my knowledge of women . 
But she made me not simply interested in her , but in myself . 
She became for me something that greatly changes a man's world . 
How shall I put it ? She became an audience . 
For some it seems an audience is a vital necessity , they seek audiences as creatures seek food others again , my uncle among them , can play to an imaginary audience . 
I , I think , have lived and can live without one . 
In my adolescence I was my own audience and my own court of honour . 
And to have an audience in one's mind is to play a part , to become self conscious and dramatic . 
For many years I had been self forgetful and scientific . 
I had lived for work and impersonal interests until I found scrutiny , applause and expectation in Beatrice's eyes . 
Then I began to live for the effect I imagined I made upon her , to make that very soon the principal value in my life . 
I did things for the look of them . 
I began to dream more and more of beautiful situations and fine poses and groupings with her and for her . 
I put these things down because they puzzle me . 
These were selfish , sincere things , fundamental and instinctive , as sincere as the leap of a tiger . 
But until matters drew to a crisis with Beatrice , there was an immense imaginative insurgence of a quite different quality . 
I am setting down here very gravely , and perhaps absurdly , what are no doubt elementary commonplaces for innumerable people . 
This love that grew up between Beatrice and myself was , I think I put it quite tentatively and rather curiously romantic love . 
That unfortunate and truncated affair of my uncle and the Scrymgeour lady was really of the same stuff , if a little different in quality . 
I have to admit that . 
The factor of audience was of primary importance in either else . 
Its effect upon me was to make me in many respects adolescent again . 
It made me keener upon the point of honour , and anxious and eager to do high and splendid things , and in particular , brave things . 
So far it ennobled and upheld me . 
But it did also push me towards vulgar and showy things . 
It certainly robbed my work of high patience and quality . 
I cut down the toil of research in my eagerness and her eagerness for fine flourishes in the air , flights that would tell . 
I shirked the longer road . 
And it robbed me , too , of any fine perception of absurdity . 
Yet that was not everything in our relationship . 
The elemental thing was there also . 
It came in very suddenly . 
It was one day in the summer , though I do not now recall without reference to my experimental memoranda whether it was in July or August . 
I was soaring my long course from the framework on the old barrow by my sheds down to Tinker's Corner . 
I had started , and was very intent on the peculiar long swoop with which any new arrangement flew . 
Then , without any sort of notice , right ahead of me appeared Beatrice , riding towards Tinker's Corner to waylay and talk to me . 
She looked round over her shoulder , saw me coming , touched her horse to a gallop , and then the brute bolted right into the path of my machine . 
There was a queer moment of doubt whether we shouldn't all smash together . 
She had already got her horse in hand when I came up to her . 
Her woman's body lay along his neck , and she glanced up as I , with wings aspread , and every nerve in a state of tension , swept over her . 
Then I had landed , and was going back to where her horse stood still and trembling . 
She slid from her saddle into my arms , and for one instant I held her . 
Those great wings , she said , and that was all . 
She lay in my arms , and I thought for a moment she had fainted . 
Very near a nasty accident , said Cothope , coming up and regarding our grouping with disfavour . 
He took her horse by the bridle . 
Very dangerous thing coming across us like that . 
Beatrice disengaged herself from me , stood for a moment trembling , and then sat down on the turf I'll just sit down for a moment , she said . 
She covered her face with her hands , while Cothope looked at her with an expression between suspicion and impatience . 
For some moments nobody moved . 
Then Cothope remarked that perhaps he'd better get her water . 
I see no particular reason why that thought should have come to me in that moment , but it did . 
I do not believe that before then I had thought of our relations in such terms at all . 
Suddenly , as I remember it , the factor of passion came . 
She crouched there , and I stood over her , and neither of us said a word . 
But it was just as though something had been shouted from the sky . 
Cothope had gone twenty paces perhaps when she uncovered her face . 
I shan't want any water , she said . 
VI After that the spirit of our relations changed . 
The old ease had gone . 
She came to me less frequently , and when she came she would have some one with her , usually old Carnaby , and he would do the bulk of the talking . 
All through September she was away . 
When we were alone together there was a curious constraint . 
We became clouds of inexpressible feeling towards one another we could think of nothing that was not too momentous for words . 
I asked her to marry me . 
All the whole I must admit it was not a situation that lent itself to eloquence . 
I lay on my back and talked through bandages , and with some little difficulty , for my tongue and mouth had swollen . 
But I was feverish and in pain , and the emotional suspense I had been in so long with regard to her became now an unendurable impatience . 
Shall I read to you ? No. I want to talk . 
I'd better talk to you . 
No , I said , I want to talk to you . 
She came and stood by my bedside and looked me in the eyes . 
I don't I don't want you to talk to me , she said . 
I thought you couldn't talk . 
I get few chances of you . 
You ought not to talk . 
It isn't much I said . 
I'm not going to be disfigured , I said . 
Oh ! she said , as if she had expected something quite different . 
Did you think you'd become a sort of gargoyle ? L'Homme qui Rit ! I didn't know . 
Jolly flowers those are ! Michaelmas daisies , she said . 
I'm glad you'r not disfigured , and those are perennial sunflowers . 
Do you know no flowers at all ? When I saw you on the ground I certainly thought you were dead . 
You ought to have been , by all the rules of the game . 
She said some other things , but I was thinking of my next move . 
Are we social equals ? I said abruptly . 
Queer question , she said . 
But are we ? H'm . 
But why do you ask ? Is the daughter of a courtesy Baron who died of general disreputableness , I believe before his father ? I give it up . 
Does it matter ? No. My mind is confused . 
I want to know if you will marry me . 
She whitened and said nothing . 
I suddenly felt I must plead with her . 
Damn these bandages ! I said , breaking into ineffectual febrile rage . 
She roused herself to her duties as nurse . 
What are you doing ? Why are you trying to sit up ? Sit down ! Don't touch your bandages . 
I told you not to talk . 
She stood helpless for a moment , then took me firmly by the shoulders and pushed me back upon the pillow . 
She gripped the wrist of the hand I had raised to my face . 
I told you not to talk , she whispered close to my face . 
I asked you not to talk . 
Why couldn't you do as I asked you ? You've been avoiding me for a month , I said . 
Put your hand back down by your side . 
She sat on the edge of the bed . 
A flush had come to her cheeks , and her eyes were very bright . 
I asked you , she repeated , not to talk . 
My eyes questioned her mutely . 
She put her hand on my chest . 
How can I answer you now ? she said . 
How can I say anything now ? What do you mean ? I asked . 
Do you mean it must be 'No' ? She nodded . 
But I said , and my whole soul was full of accusations . 
I know , she said . 
But it has to be 'No ! It can't be . 
It's utterly , finally , for ever impossible . 
Keep your hands still ! But , I said , when we met again I can't marry . 
Why did you talk ? she cried , couldn't you SEE ? She seemed to have something it was impossible to say . 
She came to the table beside my bed and pulled the Michaelmas daisies awry . 
Why did you talk like that ? she said in a tone of infinite bitterness . 
To begin like that ! But what is it ? I said . 
Is it some circumstance my social position ? Oh , DAMN your social position ! she cried . 
She went and stood at the further window , staring out at the rain . 
For a long time we were absolutely still . 
The wind and rain came in little gusts upon the pane . 
She turned to me abruptly . 
You didn't ask me if I loved you , she said . 
Oh , if it's THAT ! said I. It's not that , she said . 
But if you want to know She paused . 
I do , she said . 
We stared at one another . 
I do with all my heart , if you want to know . 
Then , why the devil ? I asked . 
The nurse found me still wearing my helmet of bandages , partially dressed , and pottering round the room to find the rest of my clothes . 
I was in a state of exasperated hunger for Beatrice , and I was too inflamed and weakened to conceal the state of my mind . 
I was feebly angry because of the irritation of dressing , and particularly of the struggle to put on my trousers without being able to see my legs . 
I was staggering about , and once I had fallen over a chair and I had upset the jar of Michaelmas daisies . 
I must have been a detestable spectacle . 
I'll go back to bed , said I , if I may have a word with Miss Beatrice . 
I've got something to say to her . 
My point was conceded , but there were long delays . 
Whether the household had my ultimatum or whether she told Beatrice directly I do not know , and what Lady Osprey can have made of it in the former case I don't imagine . 
At last Beatrice came and stood by my bedside . 
All I want to say , I said with the querulous note of a misunderstood child , is that I can't take this as final . 
I want to see you and talk when I'm better , and write . 
I can't do anything now . 
I was overtaken with self pity and began to snivel , I can't rest . 
You see ? I can't do anything . 
She sat down beside me again and spoke softly . 
I promise I will talk it all over with you again . 
I promise I will meet you somewhere so that we can talk . 
I asked you not to talk now . 
All you want to know you shall know . 
Will that do ? I'd like to know She looked round to see the door was closed , stood up and went to it . 
Then she crouched beside me and began whispering very softly and rapidly with her face close to me . 
Dear , she said , I love you . 
If it will make you happy to marry me , I will marry you . 
I was in a mood just now a stupid , inconsiderate mood . 
Of course I will marry you . 
You are my prince , my king . 
Women are such things of mood or I would have behaved differently . 
We say 'No' when we mean 'Yes' and fly into crises . 
So now , Yes yes yes . 
I can't even kiss you . 
Give me your hand to kiss that . 
Understand , I am yours . 
Do you understand ? I am yours just as if we had been married fifty years . 
Is that enough ? Now now will you rest ? Yes , I said , but why ? There are complications . 
When you are better you will be able to understand them . 
But now they don't matter . 
Only you know this must be secret for a time . 
Will you promise that ? Yes , I said , I understand . 
I wish I could kiss you . 
She laid her head down beside mine for a moment and then she kissed my hand . 
I don't care what difficulties there are , I said , and I shut my eyes . 
VII But I was only beginning to gauge the unaccountable elements in Beatrice . 
I didn't get any talk alone with Beatrice then , and she took occasion to tell us she was going to London for some indefinite number of weeks . 
I couldn't even pledge her to write to me , and when she did it was a brief , enigmatical , friendly letter with not a word of the reality between us . 
I wrote back a love letter my first love letter and she made no reply for eight days . 
Then came a scrawl I can't write letters . 
Wait till we can talk . 
I find this account of my relations to Beatrice quite the most difficult part of my story to write . 
I happen to be a very objective minded person , I forget my moods , and this was so much an affair of moods . 
And even such moods and emotions as I recall are very difficult to convey . 
To me it is about as difficult as describing a taste or a scent . 
Then the objective story is made up of little things that are difficult to set in a proper order . 
And love in an hysterical passion , now high , now low , now exalted , and now intensely physical . 
No one has ever yet dared to tell a love story completely , its alternations , its comings and goings , its debased moments , its hate . 
The love stories we tell , tell only the net consequence , the ruling effect . 
I felt that it was treachery . 
I thought of every conceivable explanation , and the most exalted and romantic confidence in her did not simply alternate , but mingled with the basest misgivings . 
She returned to Bedley Corner , and for some weeks she was flitting about me , and never once could I have talk with her alone . 
When she came to my sheds Carnaby was always with her , jealously observant . 
The days slipped by and my anger gathered . 
I conceived this second navigable balloon in a grandiose manner . 
The framework was to be hollow like a bird's bones , airtight , and the air pumped in or out , and the weight of fuel I carried changed . 
I talked much and boasted to Cothope whom I suspected of scepticisms about this new type of what it would do , and it progressed slowly . 
It progressed slowly because I was restless and uncertain . 
At times I would go away to London to snatch some chance of seeing Beatrice there , at times nothing but a day of gliding and hard and dangerous exercise would satisfy me . 
And now in the newspapers , in conversation , in everything about me , arose a new invader of my mental states . 
Something was happening to the great schemes of my uncle's affairs people were beginning to doubt , to question . 
It was the first quiver of his tremendous insecurity , the first wobble of that gigantic credit top he had kept spinning so long . 
There were comings and goings , November and December slipped by . 
I had two unsatisfactory meetings with Beatrice , meetings that had no privacy in which we said things of the sort that need atmosphere , baldly and furtively . 
I wrote to her several times and she wrote back notes that I would sometimes respond to altogether , sometimes condemn as insincere evasions . 
I can't just now explain . 
Leave things a little while to me . 
I would talk aloud to these notes and wrangle over them in my workroom while the plans of Lord Roberts B waited . 
You don't give me a chance ! I would say . 
I took an arrogant , outrageous line that left her no loopholes I behaved as though we were living in a melodrama . 
You must come and talk to me , I wrote , or I will come and take you . 
I want you and the time runs away . 
We met in a ride in the upper plantations . 
It must have been early in January , for there was snow on the ground and on the branches of the trees . 
We walked to and fro for an hour or more , and from the first I pitched the key high in romance and made understandings impossible . 
It was our worst time together . 
I boasted like an actor , and she , I know not why , was tired and spiritless . 
I confess I have never completely understood Beatrice . 
I confess I am still perplexed at many things she said and did . 
That afternoon , anyhow , I was impossible . 
I was I said it for taking the Universe by the throat ! If it was only that , she said , but though I heard , I did not heed her . 
At last she gave way to me and talked no more . 
Once even I thought she smiled faintly . 
What are the difficulties I cried . 
Here am I just grown a man at the sight of you . 
I have wanted something to fight for . 
Let me fight for you ! . 
I'm rich without intending it . 
Let me mean it , give me an honourable excuse for it , and I'll put all this rotten old Warren of England at your feet ! I said such things as that . 
I write them down here in all their resounding base pride . 
I said these empty and foolish things , and they are part of me . 
Why should I still cling to pride and be ashamed ? I shouted her down . 
I passed from such megalomania to petty accusations . 
You think Carnaby is a better man than I ? I said . 
No ! she cried , stung to speech . 
No ! You think we're unsubstantial . 
You've listened to all these rumours Boom has started because we talked of a newspaper of our own . 
When you are with me you know I'm a man when you get away from me you think I'm a cheat and a cad . 
There's not a word of truth in the things they say about us . 
But we have only to exert ourselves . 
You do not know how wide and far we have spread our nets . 
Even now we have a coup an expedition in hand . 
It will put us on a footing . 
Her eyes asked mutely and asked in vain that I would cease to boast of the very qualities she admired in me . 
In the night I could not sleep for thinking of that talk and the vulgar things I had said in it . 
I could not understand the drift my mind had taken . 
And my unwonted doubts about myself spread from a merely personal discontent to our financial position . 
I caught an early train and went up to the Hardingham . 
I went up to the Hardingham through a dense London fog to see how things really stood . 
Before I had talked to my uncle for ten minutes I felt like a man who has just awakened in a bleak , inhospitable room out of a grandiose dream . 
CHAPTER THE FOURTH HOW I STOLE THE HEAPS OF QUAP FROM MORDET ISLAND I We got to make a fight for it , said my uncle . 
We got to face the music ! I remember that even at the sight of him I had a sense of impending calamity . 
He sat under the electric light with the shadow of his hair making bars down his face . 
He looked shrunken , and as though his skin had suddenly got loose and yellow . 
The decorations of the room seemed to have lost freshness , and outside the blinds were up there was not so much fog as a dun darkness . 
One saw the dingy outlines of the chimneys opposite quite distinctly , and then a sky of such brown as only London can display . 
I saw a placard , I said 'More Ponderevity . 
That's Boom , he said . 
Boom and his damned newspapers . 
He's trying to fight me down . 
Ever since I offered to buy the Daily Decorator he's been at me . 
And he thinks consolidating Do Ut cut down the ads . 
He wants everything , damn him ! He's got no sense of dealing . 
I'd like to bash his face ! Well , I said , what's to be done ? Keep going , said my uncle . 
I'll smash Boom yet , he said , with sudden savagery . 
Nothing else ? I asked . 
We got to keep going . 
Did you notice the rooms ? Half the people out there this morning are reporters . 
And if I talk they touch it up ! . 
They didn't used to touch things up ! Now they put in character touches insulting you . 
Don't know what journalism's coming to . 
He cursed Lord Boom with considerable imaginative vigour . 
Well , said I , what can he do ? Shove us up against time , George make money tight for us . 
We been handling a lot of money and he tightens us up . 
We're sound ? Oh , we're sound , George . 
Trust me for that ! But all the same There's such a lot of imagination in these things . 
Damn Boom ! he said , and his eyes over his glasses met mine defiantly . 
We can't , I suppose , run close hauled for a bitstop expenditure ? Where ? Well , Crest Hill What ! he shouted . 
Me stop Crest Hill for Boom ! He waved a fist as if to hit his inkpot , and controlled himself with difficulty . 
He spoke at last in a reasonable voice . 
If I did , he said , he'd kick up a fuss . 
It's no good , even if I wanted to . 
If I was to stop building we'd be down in a week . 
I wish I could do something to start a strike or something . 
Treat those workmen a sight too well . 
No , sink or swim , Crest Hill goes on until we're under water . 
I began to ask questions and irritated him instantly . 
Oh , dash these explanations , George ! he cried You only make things look rottener than they are . 
It isn't a case of figures . 
We're all right there's only one thing we got to do . 
Yes ? Show value , George . 
That's where this quap comes in that's why I fell in so readily with what you brought to me week before last . 
Here we are , we got our option on the perfect filament , and all we want's canadium . 
Nobody knows there's more canadium in the world than will go on the edge of a sixpence except me and you . 
Nobody has an idee the perfect filament's more than just a bit of theorising . 
Fifty tons of quap and we'd turn that bit of theorising into something . 
We'd make the lamp trade sit on its tail and howl . 
We'd put Ediswan and all of 'em into a parcel withour last year's trousers and a hat , and swap 'em off for a pot ofgeraniums . 
He's laying up for our London and African meeting . 
He can turn the whole paper on to us . 
He says the Business Organisations shares aren't worth fifty two and we quote 'em at eighty four . 
Well , here we are gettin' ready for him loading our gun . 
Yes , I said , that's all right . 
But I can't help thinking where should we be if we hadn't just by accident got Capern's Perfect Filament . 
Because , you know it was an accident my buying up that . 
He crumpled up his nose into an expression of impatient distaste at my unreasonableness . 
And after all , the meeting's in June , and you haven't begun to get the quap ! After all , we've still got to load our gun . 
Have they got the brig ? They've got a brig . 
Gordon Nasmyth ! I doubted . 
Safe as a bank , he said . 
More I see of that man the more I like him . 
All I wish is we'd got a steamer instead of a sailing ship And , I went on , you seem to overlook what used to weigh with us a bit . 
This canadium side of the business and the Capern chance has rushed you off your legs . 
After all it's stealing , and in its way an international outrage . 
They've got two gunboats on the coast . 
I jumped up and went and stared out at the fog . 
And , by Jove , it's about our only chance ! I didn't dream . 
I've been up in the air , I said . 
Heaven knows where I haven't been . 
We ought to have run out a steamer to Lagos or one of those West Coast places and done it from there . 
Fancy a brig in the channel at this time of year , if it blows southwest ! I dessay you'd have shoved it , George . 
Still you know , George . 
Yes , I believe in him , too . 
Still We took up a telegram that was lying on his desk and opened it . 
His face became a livid yellow . 
He put the flimsy paper down with a slow , reluctant movement and took off his glasses . 
George , he said , the luck's against us . 
What ? He grimaced with his mouth in the queerest way at the telegram . 
I took it up and read Motor smash compound fracture of the leg gordon nasmyth what price mordet now For a moment neither of us spoke . 
That's all right , I said at last . 
Eh ? said my uncle . 
I'll get that quap or bust . 
II I had a ridiculous persuasion that I was saving the situation . 
I'm going , I said quite consciously and dramatically . 
I saw the whole affair how shall I put it ? in American colours . 
I sat down beside him . 
Give me all the data you've got , I said , and I'll pull this thing off . 
But nobody knows exactly where Nasmyth does , and he'll tell me . 
He's been very close , said my uncle , and regarded me . 
He'll tell me all right , now he's smashed . 
George , he said , if you pull this thing off Once or twice before you've stepped in with that sort of Woosh of yours He left the sentence unfinished . 
Give me that note book , I said , and tell me all you know . 
Where's the ship ? Where's Pollack ? And where's that telegram from ? If that quap's to be got , I'll get it or bust . 
If you'll hold on here until I get back with it . 
And so it was I jumped into the wildest adventure of my life . 
I requisitioned my uncle's best car forthwith . 
I had an idea we might need to run up a jetty . 
The mate was an Essex man of impenetrable reserve . 
The crew were astoundingly ill clad and destitute and dirty most of them youths , unwashed , out of colliers . 
One , the cook was a mulatto and one , the best built fellow of them all , was a Breton . 
There was some subterfuge about our position on board I forget the particulars now I was called the supercargo and Pollack was the steward . 
This added to the piratical flavour that insufficient funds and Gordon Nasmyth's original genius had already given the enterprise . 
Those two days of bustle at Gravesend , under dingy skies , in narrow , dirty streets , were a new experience for me . 
It is like nothing else in my life . 
I realised that I was a modern and a civilised man . 
I fought them with insect powder , and found them comatose in the morning . 
Let me confess that through all this time before we started I was immensely self conscious , and that Beatrice played the part of audience in my imagination throughout . 
I was , as I say , saving the situation , and I was acutely aware of that . 
The two ladies were at home and alone beside a big fire that seemed wonderfully cheerful after the winter night . 
I remember the effect of the little parlour in which they sat as very bright and domestic . 
The room was white panelled and chintz curtained . 
About those two bright centres of light were warm dark shadow , in which a circular mirror shone like a pool of brown water . 
I carried off my raid by behaving like a slave of etiquette . 
But at the best those were transitory moments . 
They received me with disciplined amazement . 
Lady Osprey was interested in my face and scrutinised the scar . 
Beatrice stood behind her solicitude . 
Our eyes met , and in hers I could see startled interrogations . 
I'm going , I said , to the west coast of Africa . 
They asked questions , but it suited my mood to be vague . 
It is urgent I should go . 
I don't know when I may return . 
After that I perceived Beatrice surveyed me steadily . 
The conversation was rather difficult . 
I embarked upon lengthy thanks for their kindness to me after my accident . 
I tried to understand Lady Osprey's game of patience , but it didn't appear that Lady Osprey was anxious for me to understand her patience . 
I came to the verge of taking my leave You needn't go yet , said Beatrice , abruptly . 
Must talk , she said , kneeling close to me as I helped her to pick it up . 
Presently we were at the piano , and Beatrice was playing with noisy inaccuracy . 
She glanced over her shoulder and Lady Osprey had resumed her patience . 
The old lady was very pink , and appeared to be absorbed in some attempt to cheat herself without our observing it . 
Then taking a rhythm from the music before her , she said At the back of the house is a garden a door in the wall on the lane . 
Understand ? I turned over the pages without any effect on her playing . 
I wish I COULD play this ! she said . 
She gave her attention to the music for a time . 
You may have to wait . 
She brought her playing to an end by as school boys say stashing it up . 
I can't play to night , she said , standing up and meeting my eyes . 
I wanted to give you a parting voluntary . 
Was that Wagner , Beatrice ? asked Lady Osprey looking up from her cards . 
I had a curious twinge of conscience as I parted from Lady Osprey . 
I sent the motor back to Lady Grove , and still wearing my fur coat for the January night was damp and bitterly cold walked to Bedley Corner . 
I found the lane to the back of the Dower House without any difficulty , and was at the door in the wall with ten minutes to spare . 
I lit a cigar and fell to walking up and down . 
This queer flavour of intrigue , this nocturnal garden door business , had taken me by surprise and changed my mental altitudes . 
She came within a minute of midnight the door opened softly and she appeared , a short , grey figure in a motor coat of sheepskin , bareheaded to the cold drizzle . 
She flitted up to me , and her eyes were shadows in her dusky face . 
Why are you going to West Africa ? she asked at once . 
You're not going ? You're coming back ? Three or four months , I said , at most . 
Then , it's nothing to do with me ? Nothing , I said . 
Why should it have ? Oh , that's all right . 
One never knows what people think or what people fancy . 
She took me by the arm , Let's go for a walk , she said . 
I looked about me at darkness and rain . 
That's all right , she laughed . 
We can go along the lane and into the Old Woking Road . 
Do you mind ? Of course you don't . 
How do you know ? I've wandered like this before . 
Did you think she nodded her head back at her home that's all ? No , by Jove ! I cried it's manifest it isn't . 
She took my arm and turned me down the lane . 
Night's my time , she said by my side . 
There's a touch of the werewolf in my blood . 
One never knows in these old families . 
Here we are , anyhow , alone in the world . 
Just darkness and cold and a sky of clouds and wet . 
I like the wet on my face and hair , don't you ? When do you sail ? I told her to morrow . 
Oh , well , there's no to morrow now . 
You and I ! She stopped and confronted me . 
You don't say a word except to answer ! No , I said . 
Last time you did all the talking . 
Now We looked at each other's two dim faces . 
You're glad to be here ? I'm glad I'm beginning to be it's more than glad . 
She put her hands on my shoulders and drew me down to kiss her . 
Ah ! she said , and for a moment or so we just clung to one another . 
That's all , she said , releasing herself . 
What bundles of clothes we are to night . 
I felt we should kiss some day again . 
The last time was ages ago . 
And your lips were cold . 
Were mine ? The same lips after so long after so much ! . 
And now let's trudge through this blotted out world together for a time . 
Yes , let me take your arm . 
See ? Hold tight to me because I know the way and don't talk don't talk . 
Unless you want to talk . 
Let me tell you things ! You see , dear , the whole world is blotted out it's dead and gone , and we're in this place . 
Or all the world is dead . 
No one can see us . 
We've got out of our positions , out of our bodies and together . 
That's the good thing of it together . 
But that's why the world can't see us and why we hardly see the world . 
Sssh ! Is it all right ? It's all right , I said . 
We stumbled along for a time in a close silence . 
We passed a dim lit , rain veiled window . 
The silly world , she said , the silly world ! It eats and sleeps . 
If the wet didn't patter so from the trees we'd hear it snoring . 
It's dreaming such stupid things stupid judgments . 
It doesn't know we are passing , we two free of it clear of it . 
You and I ! We pressed against each other reassuringly . 
I'm glad we're dead , she whispered . 
I was tired of it , dear . 
I was so tired of it , dear , and so entangled . 
We splashed through a string of puddles . 
I began to remember things I had meant to say . 
Look here ! I cried . 
I want to help you beyond measure . 
What is the trouble ? I asked you to marry me . 
My thoughts sounded clumsy as I said them . 
Is it something about my position ? . 
Or is it something perhaps about some other man ? There was an immense assenting silence . 
At first I mean quite early I thought you meant to make me marry you . 
And then ? To night , she said after a long pause , I can't explain . 
No ! I can't explain . 
I love you ! But explanations ! To night my dear , here we are in the world alone and the world doesn't matter . 
Here I am in the cold with you and my bed away there deserted . 
I'd tell you I will tell you when things enable me to tell you , and soon enough they will . 
But to night I won't I won't . 
She left my side and went in front of me . 
Look here , she said , I insist upon your being dead . 
Do you understand ? I'm not joking . 
To night you and I are out of life . 
There may be other times , but this we won't spoil . 
We're in Hades if you like . 
Where there's nothing to hide and nothing to tell . 
We loved each other down there and were kept apart , but now it doesn't matter . 
If you won't agree to that I will go home . 
I wanted , I began . 
Oh ! my dear , if you'd only understand I understand . 
If you'd only not care and love me to night . 
I do love you , I said . 
Then LOVE me , she answered , and leave all the things that bother you . 
Love me ! Here I am ! But ! No ! she said . 
Well , have your way . 
So she carried her point , and we wandered into the night together and Beatrice talked to me of love . 
I cannot give any sense of that talk , I cannot even tell how much of the delight of it was the magic of her voice , the glow of her near presence . 
And always we walked swathed warmly through a chilly air , along dim , interminable greasy roads with never a soul abroad it seemed to us , never a beast in the fields . 
Why do people love each other ? I said . 
To night I love the very raindrops on the fur of your coat ! . 
So we talked and at last very wet , still glowing but a little tired , we parted at the garden door . 
She stood in the doorway , a muffled figure with eyes that glowed . 
Come back , she whispered . 
I shall wait for you . 
She touched the lapel of my coat . 
I love you NOW , she said , and lifted her face to mine . 
I held her to me and was atremble from top to toe . 
O God ! I cried . 
And I must go ! She slipped from my arms and paused , regarding me . 
For an instant the world seemed full of fantastic possibilities . 
Yes , GO ! she said , and vanished and slammed the door upon me , leaving me alone like a man new fallen from fairyland in the black darkness of the night . 
III That expedition to Mordet Island stands apart from all the rest of my life , detached , a piece by itself with an atmosphere of its own . 
Vile weather , an impatient fretting against unbearable slowness and delay , sea sickness , general discomfort and humiliating self revelation are the master values of these memories . 
I was sick all through the journey out . 
It was the only time I was ever sea sick , and I have seen some pretty bad weather since I became a boat builder . 
But that phantom smell of potatoes was peculiarly vile to me . 
Coming back on the brig we were all ill , every one of us , so soon as we got to sea , poisoned , I firmly believe , by quap . 
The ship abounded in cockroaches and more intimate vermin . 
Heavens ! how I lacked that coat ! And , moreover , I was cooped up with two of the worst bores in Christendom , Pollack and the captain . 
There's only three things you can clean a pipe with , he used to remark with a twist of paper in hand . 
The best's a feather , the second's a straw , and the third's a girl's hairpin . 
I never see such a ship . 
You can't find any of 'em . 
Last time I came this way I did find hairpins anyway , and found 'em on the floor of the captain's cabin . 
Feelin' better ? At which I usually swore . 
Oh , you'll be all right soon . 
Don't mind my puffin' a bit ? Eh ? He never tired of asking me to have a hand at Nap . 
Makes you forget it , and that's half the battle . 
Captain's a Card , he would say over and over again as the outcome of these meditations . 
He'd like to know what we're up to . 
He'd like to know no end . 
That did seem to be the captain's ruling idea . 
Pollack would set himself to draw him out . 
Heaven alone can tell how near I came to murder . 
And all the time the sands in the hour glass of my uncle's fortunes were streaming out . 
Then wind and rain close in on us again . 
Dis England eet is not a country aristocratic , no ! Eet is a glorified bourgeoisie ! Eet is plutocratic . 
In England dere is no aristocracy since de Wars of Roses . 
In the rest of Europe east of the Latins , yes in England , no . 
Eet is all middle class , youra England . 
Everything you look at , middle class . 
Respectable ! Everything good eet is , you say , shocking . 
Madame Grundy ! Eet is all limited and computing and self seeking . 
Dat is why your art is so limited , youra fiction , your philosophin , why you are all so inartistic . 
You want nothing but profit ! What will pay ! What would you ? . 
I knew he would make a thousand objections to all we had before us . 
He talked like a drugged man . 
It ran glibly over his tongue . 
And all the time one could see his seamanship fretting him , he was gnawed by responsibility , perpetually uneasy about the ship's position , perpetually imagining dangers . 
As we drew near the African coast his fear of rocks and shoals became infectious . 
I do not know dis coast , he used to say . 
I cama hera because Gordon Nasmyth was coming too . 
I think perhaps Gordon Nasmyth had the artistic temperament and wanted contrasts , and also that the captain helped him to express his own malignant Anti Britishism . 
He was indeed an exceptionally inefficient captain . 
On the whole I was glad I had come even at the eleventh hour to see to things . 
I suspected the mate of his opinion of the captain long before he expressed it . 
He was , I say , a taciturn man , but one day speech broke through him . 
He had been sitting at the table with his arms folded on it , musing drearily , pipe in mouth , and the voice of the captain drifted down from above . 
The mate lifted his heavy eyes to me and regarded me for a moment . 
Then he began to heave with the beginnings of speech . 
He disembarrassed himself of his pipe . 
Speech was coming at last . 
Before he spoke he nodded reassuringly once or twice . 
E He moved his head strangely and mysteriously , but a child might have known he spoke of the captain . 
He regarded me doubtfully for a time , and at last decided for the sake of lucidity to clench the matter . 
That's what E is a DAGO ! He nodded like a man who gives a last tap to a nail , and I could see he considered his remark well and truly laid . 
Roumanian Jew , isn't he ? I said . 
He nodded darkly and almost forbiddingly . 
More would have been too much . 
But from that time forth I knew I could depend upon him and that he and I were friends . 
It happens I never did have to depend upon him , but that does not affect our relationship . 
Forward the crew lived lives very much after the fashion of ours , more crowded , more cramped and dirty , wetter , steamier , more verminous . 
The coarse food they had was still not so coarse but that they did not think they were living like fighting cocks . 
And as we pitched and floundered southward they gambled and fought , were brutal to one another , argued and wrangled loudly , until we protested at the uproar . 
There's no romance about the sea in a small sailing ship as I saw it . 
The romance is in the mind of the landsman dreamer . 
They are indeed just floating fragments of slum , much as icebergs are floating fragments of glacier . 
The civilised man who has learnt to wash , who has developed a sense of physical honour , of cleanly temperate feeding , of time , can endure them no more . 
They pass , and the clanking coal wasting steamers will follow them , giving place to cleaner , finer things . 
I lived a strange concentrated life through all that time , such a life as a creature must do that has fallen in a well . 
All my former ways ceased , all my old vistas became memories . 
The situation I was saving was very small and distant now I felt its urgency no more . 
IV All these African memories stand by themselves . 
They are memories woven upon a fabric of sunshine and heat and a constant warm smell of decay . 
There we go with a little breeze on our quarter , Mordet Island rounded and the quap , it might be within a day of us . 
Here and there strange blossoms woke the dank intensities of green with a trumpet call of colour . 
Things crept among the jungle and peeped and dashed back rustling into stillness . 
And once we saw between the tree stems long blazing fires . 
The land to the right of us fell away and became barren , and far on across notch in its backbone was surf and the sea . 
We took the ship in towards those heaps and the ruined jetty slowly and carefully . 
The captain came and talked . 
This is eet ? he said . 
Yes , said I. Is eet for trade we have come ? This was ironical . 
No , said I. Gordon Nasmyth would haf told me long ago what it ees for we haf come . 
I'll tell you now , I said . 
We are going to lay in as close as we can to those two heaps of stuff you see them ? under the rock . 
Then we are going to chuck all our ballast overboard and take those in . 
May I presume to ask is eet gold ? No , I said incivilly , it isn't . 
Then what is it ? It's stuff of some commercial value . 
We can't do eet , he said . 
We can , I answered reassuringly . 
We can't , he said as confidently . 
I don't mean what you mean . 
You know so liddle But dis is forbidden country . 
I turned on him suddenly angry and met bright excited eyes . 
For a minute we scrutinised one another . 
Then I said , That's our risk . 
This thing's got to be done . 
His eyes glittered and he shook his head . 
I will haf nothing to do with eet , he persisted . 
It seemed that night as though we argued in vain . 
If it is not trade , he said , it is prospecting and mining . 
Any one who knows anything outside England knows that is worse . 
We argued and I lost my temper and swore at him . 
Pollack kept cooler and chewed his pipe watchfully with that blue eye of his upon the captain's gestures . 
Finally I went on deck to cool . 
And about the beach east and west there were patches and streaks of something like diluted moonshine . 
In the small hours I was still awake and turning over scheme after scheme in my mind whereby I might circumvent the captain's opposition . 
I meant to get that quap aboard if I had to kill some one to do it . 
Come in , I said , and a black voluble figure I could just see obscurely came in to talk in my private ear and fill my cabin with its whisperings and gestures . 
He , too , had been awake and thinking things over . 
He had come to explain enormously . 
I lay there hating him and wondering if I and Pollack could lock him in his cabin and run the ship without him . 
I let him explain himself out . 
It appeared he was also demanding an apology for something I had said . 
No doubt I had insulted him generously . 
At last came definite offers . 
I broke my silence and bargained . 
Pollack ! I cried and hammered the partition . 
What's up ? asked Pollack . 
I stated the case concisely . 
He's a Card , said Pollack . 
Let's give him his commission . 
I said he was a Card , that's all , said Pollack . 
He appeared in my doorway a faint white figure joined our vehement whisperings . 
We had to buy the captain off we had to promise him ten per cent . 
We were to give him ten per cent . 
And he further exasperated me by insisting on having our bargain in writing . 
In the form of a letter , he insisted . 
All right , I acquiesced , in the form of a letter . 
Here goes ! Get a light ! And the apology , he said , folding up the letter . 
All right , I said Apology . 
My hand shook with anger as I wrote , and afterwards I could not sleep for hate of him . 
At last I got up . 
I suffered , I found , from an unusual clumsiness . 
I struck my toe against my cabin door , and cut myself as I shaved . 
I found myself at last pacing the deck under the dawn in a mood of extreme exasperation . 
The sun rose abruptly and splashed light blindingly into my eyes and I swore at the sun . 
I found myself imagining fresh obstacles with the men and talking aloud in anticipatory rehearsal of the consequent row . 
The malaria of the quap was already in my blood . 
V Sooner or later the ridiculous embargo that now lies upon all the coast eastward of Mordet Island will be lifted and the reality of the deposits of quap ascertained . 
I am sure that we were merely taking the outcrop of a stratum of nodulated deposits that dip steeply seaward . 
But the reader will find the full particulars of my impression of all this in the Geological Magazine for October , l , and to that I must refer him . 
There , too , he will find my unconfirmed theories of its nature . 
Those are just little molecular centres of disintegration , of that mysterious decay and rotting of those elements , elements once regarded as the most stable things in nature . 
This is no imaginative comparison of mine . 
To my mind radio activity is a real disease of matter . 
Moreover , it is a contagious disease . 
You bring those debased and crumbling atoms near others and those too presently catch the trick of swinging themselves out of coherent existence . 
It is in matter exactly what the decay of our old culture is in society , a loss of traditions and distinctions and assured reactions . 
So that while man still struggles and dreams his very substance will change and crumble from beneath him . 
I mention this here as a queer persistent fancy . 
That was its utmost admiration . 
I believe that the primary influence of the quap upon us was to increase the conductivity of our nerves , but that is a mere unjustifiable speculation on my part . 
At any rate it gave a sort of east wind effect to life . 
We all became irritable , clumsy , languid and disposed to be impatient with our languor . 
The captain had a superstitious fear of his hold he became wildly gesticulatory and expository and incompetent at the bare thought of it . 
His shouts still echo in my memory , becoming as each crisis approached less and less like any known tongue . 
For three long days we lay in misery and never shipped a barrow load . 
Then , when they resumed , the men's hands broke out into sores . 
There were no gloves available and I tried to get them , while they shovelled and wheeled , to cover their hands with stockings or greased rags . 
They would not do this on account of the heat and discomfort . 
This attempt of mine did , however , direct their attention to the quap as the source of their illness and precipitated what in the end finished our lading , an informal strike . 
We've had enough of this , they said , and they meant it . 
They came aft to say as much . 
Another barrow load , thank God ! Another fifteen hundred , or it may be two thousand pounds , for the saving of Ponderevo ! . 
! I found out many things about myself and humanity in those weeks of effort behind Mordet Island . 
I understand now the heart of the sweater , of the harsh employer , of the nigger driver . 
But I hated all humanity during the time that the quap was near me . 
And my mind was pervaded , too , by a sense of urgency and by the fear that we should be discovered and our proceedings stopped . 
I wanted to get out to sea again to be beating up northward with our plunder . 
I was afraid our masts showed to seaward and might betray us to some curious passer on the high sea . 
One man might have been a half breed and was dressed in white . 
They watched us for some time very quietly and then paddled off into some channel in the forest shadows . 
Too late , he said Too late ! . 
VI A day or so after we had got to work upon the quap I found myself so sleepless and miserable that the ship became unendurable . 
Just before the rush of sunrise I borrowed Pollack's gun , walked down the planks , clambered over the quap heaps and prowled along the beach . 
I went perhaps a mile and a half that day and some distance beyond the ruins of the old station . 
I became interested in the desolation about me , and found when I returned that I was able to sleep for nearly an hour . 
It was delightful to have been alone for so long , no captain , no Pollack , no one . 
Accordingly I repeated this expedition the next morning and the next until it became a custom with me . 
I pushed these walks far beyond the area desolated by the quap . 
Here I used to loaf in a state between botanising and reverie always very anxious to know what was up above in the sunlight and here it was I murdered a man . 
It was the most unmeaning and purposeless murder imaginable . 
I did this thing and I want to tell of my doing it , but why I did it and particularly why I should be held responsible for it I cannot explain . 
That morning I had come upon a track in the forest , and it had occurred to me as a disagreeable idea that this was a human pathway . 
I didn't want to come upon any human beings . 
The less our expedition saw of the African population the better for its prospects . 
Thus far we had been singularly free from native pestering . 
So I turned back and was making my way over mud and roots and dead fronds and petals scattered from the green world above when abruptly I saw my victim . 
I became aware of him perhaps forty feet off standing quite still and regarding me . 
He wasn't by any means a pretty figure . 
His forehead was low , his nose very flat and his lower lip swollen and purplish red . 
His hair was short and fuzzy , and about his neck was a string and a little purse of skin . 
He carried a musket , and a powder flask was stuck in his girdle . 
It was a curious confrontation . 
There opposed to him stood I , a little soiled , perhaps , but still a rather elaborately civilised human being , born , bred and trained in a vague tradition . 
In my hand was an unaccustomed gun . 
And each of us was essentially a teeming , vivid brain , tensely excited by the encounter , quite unaware of the other's mental content or what to do with him . 
He stepped back a pace or so , stumbled and turned to run . 
Stop , I cried stop , you fool ! and started to run after him , shouting such things in English . 
But I was no match for him over the roots and mud . 
I had a preposterous idea . 
I saw , and saw with a leap of pure exaltation , the smash of my bullet between his shoulder blades . 
Got him , said I , dropping my gun and down he flopped and died without a groan . 
I went to him , not as one goes to something one has made or done , but as one approaches something found . 
He was frightfully smashed out in front he must have died in the instant . 
I stooped and raised him by his shoulder and realised that . 
I dropped him , and stood about and peered about me through the trees . 
My word ! I said . 
He was the second dead human being apart , I mean , from surgical properties and mummies and common shows of that sort that I have ever seen . 
I stood over him wondering , wondering beyond measure . 
A practical idea came into that confusion . 
Had any one heard the gun ? I reloaded . 
After a time I felt securer , and gave my mind again to the dead I had killed . 
What must I do ? It occurred to me that perhaps I ought to bury him . 
At any rate , I ought to hide him . 
I reflected coolly , and then put my gun within easy reach and dragged him by the arm towards a place where the mud seemed soft , and thrust him in . 
His powder flask slipped from his loin cloth , and I went back to get it . 
Then I pressed him down with the butt of my rifle . 
Afterwards this all seemed to me most horrible , but at the time it was entirely a matter of fact transaction . 
I looked round for any other visible evidence of his fate , looked round as one does when one packs one's portmanteau in an hotel bedroom . 
When I got my bearings , and carefully returned towards the ship . 
I had the mood of grave concentration of a boy who has lapsed into poaching . 
And the business only began to assume proper proportions for me as I got near the ship , to seem any other kind of thing than the killing of a bird or rabbit . 
In the night , however , it took on enormous and portentous forms . 
By God ! I cried suddenly , starting wide awake but it was murder ! I lay after that wide awake , staring at my memories . 
In some odd way these visions mixed up with my dream of in my uncle in his despair . 
I tried to dismiss this horrible obsession from my mind , but it prevailed over all my efforts . 
The next day was utterly black with my sense of that ugly creature's body . 
I am the least superstitious of men , but it drew me . 
It drew me back into those thickets to the very place where I had hidden him . 
Some evil and detestable beast had been at him , and he lay disinterred . 
Methodically I buried his swollen and mangled carcass again , and returned to the ship for another night of dreams . 
I never told a soul of them of this thing I had done . 
Next day I went early , and he had gone , and there were human footmarks and ugly stains round the muddy hole from which he had been dragged . 
I returned to the ship , disconcerted and perplexed . 
That day it was the men came aft , with blistered hands and faces , and sullen eyes . 
When they proclaimed , through Edwards , their spokesman , We've had enough of this , and we mean it , I answered very readily , So have I. Let's go . 
VII We were none too soon . 
It was a night of driving cloud that gave intermittent gleams of moonlight the wind and sea were strong and we were rolling along through a drift of rails and mist . 
Suddenly the world was white with moonshine . 
The gunboat came out as a long dark shape wallowing on the water to the east . 
She sighted the Maud Mary at once , and fired some sort of popgun to arrest us . 
The mate turned to me . 
Shall I tell the captain ? The captain be damned said I , and we let him sleep through two hours of chase till a rainstorm swallowed us up . 
Then we changed our course and sailed right across them , and by morning only her smoke was showing . 
We were clear of Africa and with the booty aboard I did not see what stood between us and home . 
For the first time since I had fallen sick in the Thames my spirits rose . 
I was sea sick and physically disgusted , of course , but I felt kindly in spite of my qualms . 
So far as I could calculate then the situation was saved . 
I saw myself returning triumphantly into the Thames , and nothing on earth to prevent old Capern's Perfect Filament going on the market in fortnight . 
I had the monopoly of electric lamps beneath my feet . 
I was released from the spell of that bloodstained black body all mixed up with grey black mud . 
I was going back to baths and decent food and aeronautics and Beatrice . 
I was going back to Beatrice and my real life again out of this well into which I had fallen . 
It would have needed something more than sea sickness and quap fever to prevent my spirits rising . 
And then you know , as we got out into the Atlantic this side of Cape Verde , the ship began to go to pieces . 
I don't pretend for one moment to understand what happened . 
But I think Greiffenhagen's recent work on the effects of radium upon ligneous tissue does rather carry out my idea that emanations from quap have rapid rotting effect upon woody fibre . 
From the first there had been a different feel about the ship , and as the big winds and waves began to strain her she commenced leaking . 
Soon she was leaking not at any particular point , but everywhere . 
She did not spring a leak , I mean , but water came in first of all near the decaying edges of her planks , and then through them . 
I firmly believe the water came through the wood . 
First it began to ooze , then to trickle . 
It was like trying to carry moist sugar in a thin paper bag . 
Soon we were taking in water as though we had opened a door in her bottom . 
Once it began , the thing went ahead beyond all fighting . 
At last we ceased to think of anything but pumping one became a thing of torment enchanted , doomed to pump for ever . 
I still remember it as pure relief when at last Pollack came to me pipe in mouth . 
The captain says the damned thing's going down right now he remarked , chewing his mouthpiece . 
Eh ? Good idea ! I said . 
One can't go on pumping for ever . 
We were all silent , even the captain was silent until she went down . 
And then he spoke quite mildly in an undertone . 
Dat is the first ship I haf ever lost . 
And it was not a fair game ! It wass not a cargo any man should take . 
No ! I stared at the slow eddies that circled above the departed Maud Mary , and the last chance of Business Organisations . 
I felt weary beyond emotion . 
I thought of my heroics to Beatrice and my uncle , of my prompt I'LL go , and of all the ineffectual months I had spent after this headlong decision . 
I was moved to laughter at myself and fate . 
But the captain and the men did not laugh . 
The men scowled at me and rubbed their sore and blistered hands , and set themselves to row . 
As all the world knows we were picked up by the Union Castle liner , Portland Castle . 
The hairdresser aboard was a wonderful man , and he even improvised me a dress suit , and produced a clean shirt and warm underclothing . 
I had a hot bath , and dressed and dined and drank a bottle of Burgundy . 
Now , I said , are there any newspapers ? I want to know what's been happening in the world . 
My steward gave me what he had , but I landed at Plymouth still largely ignorant of the course of events . 
The newspapers I bought , the placards I saw , all England indeed resounded to my uncle's bankruptcy . 
BOOK THE FOURTH THE AFTERMATH OF TONO BUNGAY CHAPTER THE FIRST THE STICK OF THE ROCKET I That evening I talked with my uncle in the Hardingham for the last time . 
The atmosphere of the place had altered quite shockingly . 
Instead of the crowd of importunate courtiers there were just half a dozen uninviting men , journalists waiting for an interview . 
Ropper the big commissionaire was still there , but now indeed he was defending my uncle from something more than time wasting intrusions . 
I found the little man alone in the inner office pretending to work , but really brooding . 
He was looking yellow and deflated . 
Lord ! he said at the sight of me . 
It makes that scar of yours show up . 
We regarded each other gravely for a time . 
Quap , I said , is at the bottom of the Atlantic . 
There's some bills We've got to pay the men . 
Seen the papers ? Read 'em all in the train . 
At bay , he said . 
I been at bay for a week . 
And me facing the music . 
I'm feelin' a bit tired . 
He blew and wiped his glasses . 
My stomack isn't what it was , he explained . 
One finds it these times . 
How did it all happen , George ? Your Marconigram it took me in the wind a bit . 
He nodded to the paragraphs of my narrative and at the end he poured something from a medicine bottle into a sticky little wineglass and drank it . 
I became aware of the presence of drugs , of three or four small bottles before him among his disorder of papers , of a faint elusively familiar odour in the room . 
Yes , he said , wiping his lips and recorking the bottle . 
You've done your best , George . 
The luck's been against us . 
He reflected , bottle in hand . 
Sometimes the luck goes with you and sometimes it doesn't . 
And then where are you ? Grass in the oven ! Fight or no fight . 
He asked a few questions and then his thoughts came back to his own urgent affairs . 
I tried to get some comprehensive account of the situation from him , but he would not give it . 
Oh , I wish I'd had you . 
I wish I'd had you , George . 
I've had a lot on my hands . 
You're clear headed at times . 
What has happened ? Oh ! Boom ! infernal things . 
Yes , but how ? I'm just off the sea , remember . 
It'd worry me too much to tell you now . 
It's tied up in a skein . 
He muttered something to himself and mused darkly , and roused himself to say Besides you'd better keep out of it . 
Go down to Crest Hill and fly . 
For a time his manner set free queer anxieties in my brain again . 
I will confess that that Mordet Island nightmare of mine returned , and as I looked at him his hand went out for the drug again . 
Stomach , George , he said . 
I been fightin' on that . 
Every man fights on some thing gives way somewheres head , heart , liver something . 
All through the Waterloo campaign , his stomach it wasn't a stomach ! Worse than mine , no end . 
The mood of depression passed as the drug worked within him . 
He began to talk big . 
He began to dress up the situation for my eyes , to recover what he had admitted to me . 
He put it as a retreat from Russia . 
There were still the chances of Leipzig . 
It's a battle , George a big fight . 
There's still a card or so . 
I can't tell all my plans like speaking on the stroke . 
You might , I began . 
It's like asking to look at some embryo . 
In a sort of way , I know . 
But to tell it No ! You been away so long . 
My perception of disastrous entanglements deepened with the rise of his spirits . 
It was evident that I could only help to tie him up in whatever net was weaving round his mind by forcing questions and explanations upon him . 
My thoughts flew off at another angle . 
How's Aunt Susan ? said I. I had to repeat the question . 
His busy whispering lips stopped for a moment , and he answered in the note of one who repeats a formula . 
She'd like to be in the battle with me . 
She'd like to be here in London . 
But there's corners I got to turn alone . 
His eye rested for a moment on the little bottle beside him . 
You might go down now and talk to her , he said , in a directer voice . 
I shall be down to morrow night , I think . 
He looked up as though he hoped that would end our talk . 
For the week end ? I asked . 
As I walked through the evening light along the downs , the summer stillness seemed like the stillness of something newly dead . 
There were no lurking workmen any more , no cyclists on the high road . 
I cannot now recall the manner in which my aunt and I greeted one another . 
I must have been very tired there , but whatever impression was made has gone out of my memory . 
But I recall very clearly how we sat at the little round table near the big window that gave on the terrace , and dined and talked . 
I remember her talking of my uncle . 
She asked after him , and whether he seemed well . 
I wish I could help , she said . 
But I've never helped him much , never . 
His way of doing things was never mine . 
Since he began to get so rich , he's kept things from me . 
In the old days it was different . 
There he is I don't know what he's doing . 
He won't have me near him . 
More's kept from me than anyone . 
The very servants won't let me know . 
They try and stop the worst of the papers Boom's things from coming upstairs . 
I suppose they've got him in a corner , George . 
Poor old Teddy ! Poor old Adam and Eve we are ! Ficial Receivers with flaming swords to drive us out of our garden ! I'd hoped we'd never have another Trek . 
Well anyway , it won't be Crest Hill . 
But it's hard on Teddy . 
He must be in such a mess up there . 
I suppose we can't help him . 
I suppose we'd only worry him . 
Have some more soup George while there is some ? . 
The next day was one of those days of strong perception that stand out clear in one's memory when the common course of days is blurred . 
I have never been greedy for money , I have never wanted to be rich , but I felt now an immense sense of impending deprivation . 
It was one of those warm mornings in late May that have won all the glory of summer without losing the gay delicacy of spring . 
The shrubbery was bright with laburnum and lilac , the beds swarmed with daffodils and narcissi and with lilies of the valley in the shade . 
I went along the well kept paths among the rhododendra and through the private gate into the woods where the bluebells and common orchid were in profusion . 
Never before had I tasted so completely the fine sense of privilege and ownership . 
And all this has to end , I told myself , all this has to end . 
Neither my uncle nor I had made any provision for disaster all we had was in the game , and I had little doubt now of the completeness of our ruin . 
For the first time in my life since he had sent me that wonderful telegram of his I had to consider that common anxiety of mankind , Employment . 
I had to come off my magic carpet and walk once more in the world . 
And suddenly I found myself at the cross drives where I had seen Beatrice for the first time after so many years . 
It is strange , but so far as I can recollect I had not thought of her once since I had landed at Plymouth . 
No doubt she had filled the background of my mind , but I do not remember one definite , clear thought . 
I had been intent on my uncle and the financial collapse . 
It came like a blow in the face now all that , too , had to end ! Suddenly I was filled with the thought of her and a great longing for her . 
To judge by its long rhythm it was a very good glider . 
Like Cothope's cheek , thought I , to go on with the research . 
I wonder if he's keeping notes . 
But all this will have to stop . 
He was sincerely glad to see me . 
It's been a rum go , he said . 
He had been there without wages for a month , a man forgotten in the rush of events . 
I just stuck on and did what I could with the stuff . 
I got a bit of money of my own and I said to myself , 'Well , here you are with the gear and no one to look after you . 
You won't get such a chance again , my boy , not in all your born days . 
Why not make what you can with it ? How's Lord Roberts B ? Cothope lifted his eyebrows . 
I've had to refrain , he said . 
But he's looking very handsome . 
Gods ! I said , I'd like to get him up just once before we smash . 
You read the papers ? You know we're going to smash ? Oh ! I read the papers . 
It's scandalous , sir , such work as ours should depend on things like that . 
You and I ought to be under the State , sir , if you'll excuse me Nothing to excuse , I said . 
I've always been a Socialist of a sort in theory . 
Let's go and have a look at him . 
How is he ? Deflated ? Just about quarter full . 
That last oil glaze of yours holds the gas something beautiful . 
He's not lost a cubic metre a week . 
Cothope returned to Socialism as we went toward the sheds . 
Glad to think you're a Socialist , sir , he said , it's the only civilised state . 
I been a Socialist some years off the Clarion . 
It's a rotten scramble , this world . 
It takes the things we make and invent and it plays the silly fool with 'em . 
We scientific people , we'll have to take things over and stop all this financing and advertisement and that . 
Look at us ! Lord Roberts B , even in his partially deflated condition in his shed , was a fine thing to stare up at . 
I stood side by side with Cothope regarding him , and it was borne in upon me more acutely than ever that all this had to end . 
I had a feeling just like the feeling of a boy who wants to do wrong , that I would use up the stuff while I had it before the creditors descended . 
I had a queer fancy , too , I remember , that if I could get into the air it would advertise my return to Beatrice . 
We'll fill her , I said concisely . 
It's all ready , said Cothope , and added as an afterthought , unless they cut off the gas . 
I worked and interested myself with Cothope all the morning and for a time forgot my other troubles . 
But the thought of Beatrice flooded me slowly and steadily . 
It became an unintelligent sick longing to see her . 
I felt that I could not wait for the filling of Lord Roberts B , that I must hunt her up and see her soon . 
I got everything forward and lunched with Cothope , and then with the feeblest excuses left him in order to prowl down through the woods towards Bedley Corner . 
I became a prey to wretched hesitations and diffidence . 
Ought I to go near her now ? I asked myself , reviewing all the social abasements of my early years . 
At last , about five , I called at the Dower House . 
I was greeted by their Charlotte with a forbidding eye and a cold astonishment . 
Both Beatrice and Lady Osprey were out . 
There came into my head some prowling dream of meeting her . 
I went along the lane towards Woking , the lane down which we had walked five months ago in the wind and rain . 
I mooned for a time in our former footsteps , then swore and turned back across the fields , and then conceived a distaste for Cothope and went Downward . 
At last I found myself looking down on the huge abandoned masses of the Crest Hill house . 
That gave my mind a twist into a new channel . 
My uncle came uppermost again . 
This was our fruit , this was what he had done , I and my uncle , in the fashion of our time . 
We were its leaders and exponents , we were the thing it most flourishingly produced . 
For this futility in its end , for an epoch of such futility , the solemn scroll of history had unfolded . 
This was Life ! It came to me like a revelation , a revelation at once incredible and indisputable of the abysmal folly of our being . 
III I was roused from such thoughts by the sound of footsteps behind me . 
I turned half hopeful so foolish is a lover's imagination , and stopped amazed . 
His face was white white as I had seen it in my dream . 
Hullo ! I said , and stared . 
Why aren't you in London ? It's all up , he said . 
Adjudicated ? No ! I stared at him for a moment , and then got off the stile . 
We stood swaying and then came forward with a weak motion of his arms like a man who cannot see distinctly , and caught at and leant upon the stile . 
For a moment we were absolutely still . 
He made a clumsy gesture towards the great futility below and choked . 
I discovered that his face was wet with tears , that his wet glasses blinded him . 
It wasn't just sobbing or shedding tears , it was crying as a child cries . 
It was oh ! terrible ! It's cruel , he blubbered at last . 
They KEP' asking me questions , George . 
He sought for utterance , and spluttered . 
The Bloody bullies ! he shouted . 
He became suddenly rapid and explanatory . 
It's not a fair game , George . 
And I been and got a cold . 
I always been li'ble to cold , and this one's on my chest . 
And then they tell you to speak up . 
They bait you and bait you , and bait you . 
You can't remember what you said . 
You're bound to contradict yourself . 
It's like Russia , George . 
I've been next at dinners with that chap , Neal I've told him stories and he's bitter ! Sets out to ruin me . 
Don't ask a civil question bellows . 
I've been bellowed at , I been bullied , I been treated like a dog . 
Dirty cads they are ! Dirty cads ! I'd rather be a Three Card Sharper than a barrister I'd rather sell cat's meat in the streets . 
They sprung things on me this morning , things I didn't expect . 
They rushed me ! I'd got it all in my hands and then I was jumped . 
By Neal ! Neal I've given city tips to ! Neal ! I've helped Neal . 
I couldn't swallow a mouthful not in the lunch hour . 
It's true , George I couldn't face it . 
I said I'd get a bit of air and slipped out and down to the Embankment , and there I took a boat to Richmond . 
I took a rowing boat when I got there and I rowed about on the river for a bit . 
A lot of chaps and girls there was on the bank laughed at my shirt sleeves and top hat . 
Dessay they thought it was a pleasure trip . 
Fat lot of pleasure ! I rowed round for a bit and came in . 
Then I came on here . 
And there they are in London doing what they like with me . 
I don't care ! But I said , looking down at him , perplexed . 
I don't understand , I said . 
It's all up , George all up and over . 
That terrace I stood thinking him over . 
Look here ! I said . 
They'll only bring you up for the rest of your examination . 
He remained silent for a time . 
At last he spoke speaking with difficulty . 
They're bound to get it out . 
Practically they HAVE got it out . 
What ? Writin' things down I done something . 
For the first time in his life , I believe , he felt and looked ashamed . 
It filled me with remorse to see him suffer so . 
We've all done things , I said . 
It's part of the game the world makes us play . 
If they want to arrest you and you've got no cards in your hand ! They mustn't arrest you . 
No. That's partly why I went to Richmond . 
But I never thought His little bloodshot eyes stared at Crest Hill . 
That chap Wittaker Wright , he said , he had his stuff ready . 
Now you got it , George . 
That's the sort of hole I'm in . 
IV That memory of my uncle at the gate is very clear and full . 
I am able to recall even the undertow of my thoughts while he was speaking . 
I remember my pity and affection for him in his misery growing and stirring within me , my realisation that at any risk I must help him . 
But then comes indistinctness again . 
I was beginning to act . 
I know I persuaded him to put himself in my hands , and began at once to plan and do . 
I know I resolved to get him away at once , and to use the Lord Roberts B in effecting that . 
It was clear he was soon to be a hunted man , and it seemed to me already unsafe for him to try the ordinary Continental routes in his flight . 
I had to evolve some scheme , and evolve it rapidly , how we might drop most inconspicuously into the world across the water . 
My resolve to have one flight at least in my airship fitted with this like hand to glove . 
That , at any rate , was my ruling idea . 
I sent off Cothope with a dummy note to Woking , because I did not want to implicate him , and took my uncle to the pavilion . 
I went down to my aunt , and made a clean breast of the situation . 
We went into his dressing room and ruthlessly broke his locks . 
I also got a flask of brandy , and she made sandwiches . 
I don't remember any servants appearing , and I forget where she got those sandwiches . 
Afterwards I thought with what a sure confidence we talked to each other What's he done ? she said . 
D'you mind knowing ? No conscience left , thank God ! I think forgery ! There was just a little pause . 
Can you carry this bundle ? she asked . 
No woman ever has respected the law ever , she said . 
The things it lets you do ! And then pulls you up like a mad nurse minding a child . 
She carried some rugs for me through the shrubbery in the darkling . 
They'll think we're going mooning , she said , jerking her head at the household . 
I wonder what they make of us criminals . 
An immense droning note came as if in answer to that . 
It startled us both for a moment . 
The dears ! she said . 
It's the gong for dinner ! . 
But I wish I could help little Teddy , George . 
It's awful to think of him there with hot eyes , red and dry . 
And I know the sight of me makes him feel sore . 
Things I said , George . 
If I could have seen , I'd have let him have an omnibusful of Scrymgeours . 
He'd never thought I meant it before . 
I'll help all I can , anyhow . 
I turned at something in her voice , and got a moon light gleam of tears upon her face . 
Could SHE have helped ? she asked abruptly . 
My God ! I cried , HELPED ! Those things don't help ! Tell me again what I ought to do , she said after a silence . 
I went over the plans I had made for communicating , and the things I thought she might do . 
I had given her the address of a solicitor she might put some trust in . 
But you must act for yourself , I insisted . 
Roughly , I said , it's a scramble . 
You must get what you can for us , and follow as you can . 
She came right up to the pavilion and hovered for a time shyly , and then went away . 
I lef' my drops , he said . 
He changed his clothes slowly and unwillingly . 
I had to bully him , I had almost to shove him to the airship and tuck him up upon its wicker flat . 
If it hadn't been for a sort of anchoring trolley device of Cothope's , a sort of slip anchor running on a rail , we should never have got clear at all . 
V The incidents of our flight in Lord Roberts B do not arrange themselves in any consecutive order . 
To think of that adventure is like dipping haphazard into an album of views . 
One is reminded first of this and then of that . 
We were both lying down on a horizontal plate of basketwork for Lord Roberts B had none of the elegant accommodation of a balloon . 
I lay forward , and my uncle behind me in such a position that he could see hardly anything of our flight . 
We were protected from rolling over simply by netting between the steel stays . 
It was impossible for us to stand up at all we had either to lie or crawl on all fours over the basket work . 
Amidships were lockers made of Watson's Aulite material , and between these it was that I had put my uncle , wrapped in rugs . 
I wore sealskin motoring boots and gloves , and a motoring fur coat over my tweeds , and I controlled the engine by Bowden wires and levers forward . 
My uncle lay quite still behind me , saying little and staring in front of him , and I was left to my own thoughts and sensations . 
I remember a train boring its way like a hastening caterpillar of fire across the landscape , and how distinctly I heard its clatter . 
Every town and street was buttoned with street lamps . 
I came quite close to the South Downs near Lewes , and all the lights were out in the houses , and the people gone to bed . 
We left the land a little to the east of Brighton , and by that time Brighton was well abed . 
and the brightly lit sea front deserted . 
Then I let out the gas chamber to its fullest extent and rose . 
I like to be high above water . 
I do not clearly know what happened in the night . 
I think I must have dozed , and probably my uncle slept . 
I remember that once or twice I heard him talking in an eager , muffled voice to himself , or to an imaginary court . 
I remember the kind of stupid perplexity with which I saw the dawn breaking over a grey waste of water , below , and realised that something was wrong . 
I was so stupid that it was only after the sunrise I really noticed the trend of the foam caps below , and perceived we were in a severe easterly gale . 
I thought I was east of Cherbourg , when I was far to the west and stopped my engine in that belief , and then set it going again . 
I did actually sight the coast of Brittany to the southeast in the late afternoon , and that it was woke me up to the gravity of our position . 
I discovered it by accident in the southeast , when I was looking for it in the southwest . 
It was only then that I realised what a gale I was in . 
I had been going westward , and perhaps even in gusts north of west , at a pace of fifty or sixty miles an hour . 
Then I began what I suppose would be called a Fight against the east wind . 
One calls it a Fight , but it was really almost as unlike a fight as plain sewing . 
My hope lay in the wind abating , and our keeping in the air and eastward of Finisterre until it did , and the chief danger was the exhaustion of our petrol . 
I was tired and sulky , and chiefly worried about the engine . 
I had to resist a tendency to crawl back and look at it . 
I did not care to risk contracting our gas chamber for fear of losing gas . 
Nothing was less like a fight . 
I know that in popular magazines , and so forth , all such occasions as this are depicted in terms of hysteria . 
Captains save their ships engineers complete their bridges , generals conduct their battles , in a state of dancing excitement , foaming recondite technicalities at the lips . 
I suppose that sort of thing works up the reader , but so far as it professes to represent reality , I am convinced it is all childish nonsense . 
Neither I nor my uncle spent the night in ejaculations , nor in humorous allusions , nor any of these things . 
For all our wraps we got frightfully cold as the night wore on . 
Then , indeed , for a time I felt the grim thrill of life . 
Something must have intervened here that I have forgotten . 
I saw the lights of Bordeaux when it was quite dark , a nebulous haze against black of that I am reasonably sure . 
But certainly our fall took place in the cold , uncertain light of early dawn . 
I am , at least , equally sure of that . 
And Mimizan , near where we dropped , is fifty miles from Bordeaux , whose harbour lights I must have seen . 
I remember coming down at last with a curious indifference , and actually rousing myself to steer . 
But the actual coming to earth was exciting enough . 
Then came the realisation that the monster was almost consciously disentangling itself for escape , and then the light leap of its rebound . 
The rope slipped out of reach of my hand . 
I remember running knee deep in a salt pool in hopeless pursuit of the airship . 
It drove swiftly over the sandy dunes , lifting and falling , and was hidden by a clump of windbitten trees . 
Then it reappeared much further off , and still receding . 
It soared for a time , and sank slowly , and after that I saw it no more . 
I suppose it fell into the sea and got wetted with salt water and heavy , and so became deflated and sank . 
It was never found , and there was never a report of anyone seeing it after it escaped from me . 
VI But if I find it hard to tell the story of our long flight through the air overseas , at least that dawn in France stands cold and clear and full . 
I feel again the clear , cold chill of dawn , and hear the distant barking of a dog . 
I find myself asking again , What shall we do now ? and trying to scheme with brain tired beyond measure . 
At first my uncle occupied my attention . 
He was shivering a good deal , and it was all I could do to resist my desire to get him into a comfortable bed at once . 
But I wanted to appear plausibly in this part of the world . 
I was struck now by the flushed weariness of his face , and the look of age the grey stubble on his unshaved chin gave him . 
He sat crumpled up , shivering and coughing , munching reluctantly , but drinking eagerly , and whimpering a little , a dreadfully pitiful figure to me . 
But we had to go through with it there was no way out for us . 
Presently the sun rose over the pines , and the sand grew rapidly warm . 
My uncle had done eating , and sat with his wrists resting on his knees , the most hopeless looking of lost souls . 
instead of flying about , and suddenly he burst into tears . 
Go to sleep , man ! I said , and took the rug from him , and spread it out and rolled him up in it . 
It's all very well , he protested I'm not young enough Lift up your head , I interrupted , and put his knapsack under it . 
They'll catch us here , just as much as in an inn , he grumbled and then lay still . 
Presently , after a long time , I perceived he was asleep . 
His breath came with peculiar wheezings , and every now and again he would cough . 
I was very stiff and tired myself , and perhaps I dozed . 
I remember only sitting , as it seemed , nigh interminably , beside him , too weary even to think in that sandy desolation . 
No one came near us no creature , not even a dog . 
This explained us pretty well , I thought , and we got most heartening coffee and a cart to a little roadside station . 
My uncle grew more and more manifestly ill with every stage of our journey . 
We found one homely inn with two small bedrooms , kept by a kindly Basque woman . 
He was manifestly a case for a doctor , and in the morning we got one in . 
He was a young man from Montpelier , just beginning to practise , and very mysterious and technical and modern and unhelpful . 
He spoke of cold and exposure , and la grippe and pneumonia . 
He gave many explicit and difficult directions . 
I perceived it devolved upon me to organise nursing and a sick room . 
I installed a religieuse in the second bedroom of the inn , and took a room for myself in the inn of Port de Luzon , a quarter of a mile away . 
VII And now my story converges on what , in that queer corner of refuge out of the world , was destined to be my uncle's deathbed . 
One went and drew back the edge of the curtains if one wanted to speak to him or look at him . 
Usually he was propped up against pillows , because so he breathed more easily . 
He slept hardly at all . 
They were all very kind and sympathetic people , systematically so . 
And constantly , without attracting attention , I was trying to get newspapers from home . 
My uncle is central to all these impressions . 
Never had he looked so small as now . 
And he talked to me in a whispering , strained voice of great issues , of why his life had been , and whither he was going . 
Poor little man ! that last phase is , as it were , disconnected from all the other phases . 
It was as if he crawled out from the ruins of his career , and looked about him before he died . 
For he had quite clear minded states in the intervals of his delirium . 
He knew he was almost certainly dying . 
In a way that took the burthen of his cares off his mind . 
There was no more Neal to face , no more flights or evasions , no punishments . 
It has been a great career , George , he said , but I shall be glad to rest . 
His mind ran rather upon his career , and usually , I am glad to recall , with a note of satisfaction and approval . 
In his delirious phases he would most often exaggerate this self satisfaction , and talk of his splendours . 
He would pluck at the sheet and stare before him , and whisper half audible fragments of sentences . 
What is this great place , these cloud capped towers , these any pinnacles ? . 
Ilion House , the residence of one of our great merchant princes . 
A great poet , George . 
He stands on the terrace on the upper terrace directing directing by the globe directing the trade . 
It was hard at times to tell when his sane talk ceased and his delirium began . 
The secret springs of his life , the vain imaginations were revealed . 
I suspect that all things unspoken in our souls partake somewhat of the laxity of delirium and dementia . 
Certainly from those slimy , tormented lips above the bristling grey beard came nothing but dreams and disconnected fancies . 
Sometimes he raved about Neal , threatened Neal . 
What has he got invested ? he said . 
Does he think he can escape me ? . 
If I followed him up . 
One would think I had taken his money . 
And sometimes he reverted to our airship flight . 
It's too long , George , too long and too cold . 
I'm too old a man too old for this sort of thing . 
You know you're not saving you're killing me . 
Towards the end it became evident our identity was discovered . 
The thing got into the popular French press . 
People became curious in their manner towards us , and a number of fresh faces appeared about the weak little struggle that went on in the closeness behind the curtains of the bed . 
The young doctor insisted on consultations , and a motor car came up from Biarritz , and suddenly odd people with questioning eyes began to poke in with inquiries and help . 
He was evidently enormously impressed by my uncle's monetary greatness , and by his own inkling of our identity , and he shone and brimmed over with tact and fussy helpfulness . 
I had got so out of touch with the old traditions of religion that I overlooked the manifest possibility of his attacking my poor , sinking vestiges of an uncle with theological solicitudes . 
The stuffy little room was crowded when I reached it , and lit by three flickering candles . 
I felt I was back in the eighteenth century . 
The religieuse hovered sleepily in the background with an overdue and neglected dose . 
I rather fancy the doctor explained him to me in French I did not understand . 
The doctor stood , the others were all sitting on chairs the landlady had brought in and arranged for them . 
And my uncle spoilt the climax , and did not die . 
I replaced the little clergyman on the chair by the bedside , and he hovered about the room . 
I think , he whispered to me mysteriously , as he gave place to me , I believe it is well with him . 
I heard him trying to render the stock phrases of Low Church piety into French for the benefit of the stolid man in grey alpaca . 
Then he knocked a glass off the table , and scrabbled for the fragments . 
From the first I doubted the theory of an immediate death . 
I consulted the doctor in urgent whispers . 
I turned round to get champagne , and nearly fell over the clergyman's legs . 
Something put into my head that tremendous blasphemy of Carlyle's about the last mew of a drowning kitten . 
He found a third chair vacant presently it was as if he was playing a game . 
Good Heavens ! I said , we must clear these people out , and with a certain urgency I did . 
I had a temporary lapse of memory , and forgot all my French . 
I drove them out mainly by gesture , and opened the window , to the universal horror . 
I intimated the death scene was postponed , and , as a matter of fact , my uncle did not die until the next night . 
I did not let the little clergyman come near him again , and I was watchful for any sign that his mind had been troubled . 
He talked once about that parson chap . 
Didn't bother you ? I asked . 
Wanted something , he said . 
I kept silence , listening keenly to his mutterings . 
I understood him to say , They wanted too much . 
His face puckered like a child's going to cry . 
You can't get a safe six per cent . 
I had for a moment a wild suspicion that those urgent talks had not been altogether spiritual , but that , I think , was a quite unworthy and unjust suspicion . 
The little clergyman was as simple and honest as the day . 
My uncle was simply generalising about his class . 
But it may have been these talks that set loose some long dormant string of ideas in my uncle's brain , ideas the things of this world had long suppressed and hidden altogether . 
Near the end he suddenly became clearminded and lucid , albeit very weak , and his voice was little , but clear . 
I'm here , I said , close beside you . 
You have always been responsible for the science . 
You know better than I do . 
Is Is it proved ? What proved ? Either way ? I don't understand . 
After so much Such splendid beginnin's . 
I stared at him amazed . 
His sunken eyes were very grave . 
What do you expect ? I said in wonder . 
He fell into a broken monologue , regardless of me . 
Trailing clouds of glory , he said , and first rate poet , first rate . 
For a long time there was silence . 
Then he made a gesture that he wished to speak . 
Seems to me , George I bent my head down , and he tried to lift his hand to my shoulder . 
I raised him a little on his pillows , and listened . 
It seems to me , George , always there must be something in me that won't die . 
He looked at me as though the decision rested with me . 
I think , he said something . 
Then , for a moment , his mind wandered . 
Just a little link , he whispered almost pleadingly , and lay quite still , but presently he was uneasy again . 
Some other world Perhaps , I said . 
Who knows ? Some other world . 
Not the same scope for enterprise , I said . 
I sat leaning down to him , and following out my own thoughts , and presently the religieuse resumed her periodic conflict with the window fastening . 
For a time he struggled for breath . 
It seemed such nonsense that he should have to suffer so poor silly little man ! George , he whispered , and his weak little hand came out . 
PERHAPS He said no more , but I perceived from the expression of his eyes that he thought the question had been put . 
Yes , I think so I said stoutly . 
Aren't you sure ? Oh practically sure , said I , and I think he tried to squeeze my hand . 
Queer fancies came to me . 
He lay still for a long time , save for a brief struggle or so for breath and ever and again I wiped his mouth and lips . 
I fell into a pit of thought . 
I did not remark at first the change that was creeping over his face . 
He lay back on his pillow , made a faint zzzing sound that ceased , and presently and quite quietly he died greatly comforted by my assurance . 
I do not know when he died . 
Suddenly , with a start , with a shock , I found that his mouth had fallen open , and that he was dead . 
VIII It was dark night when I left his deathbed and went back to my own inn down the straggling street of Luzon . 
That return to my inn sticks in my memory also as a thing apart , as an experience apart . 
For me those offices were irksome and impertinent . 
That warm veil of fog produced an effect of vast seclusion . 
The very houses by the roadside peered through it as if from another world . 
The stillness of the night was marked by an occasional remote baying of dogs all these people kept dogs because of the near neighbourhood of the frontier . 
Death ! It was one of those rare seasons of relief , when for a little time one walks a little outside of and beside life . 
I felt as I sometimes feel after the end of a play . 
I saw the whole business of my uncle's life as something familiar and completed . 
It was done , like a play one leaves , like a book one closes . 
It came to me like a discovery that none of these things existed . 
Before and after I have thought and called life a phantasmagoria , but never have I felt its truth as I did that night . 
We had parted we two who had kept company so long had parted . 
But there was , I knew , no end to him or me . 
He had died a dream death , and ended a dream his pain dream was over . 
It seemed to me almost as though I had died , too . 
Part of the fog became a big mastiff that came towards me and stopped and slunk round me , growling , barked gruffly , and shortly and presently became fog again . 
My mind swayed back to the ancient beliefs and fears of our race . 
My doubts and disbeliefs slipped from me like a loosely fitting garment . 
When it was beyond all hope that my uncle could live I threw aside whatever concealment remained to us and telegraphed directly to her . 
But she came too late to see him living . 
She saw him calm and still , strangely unlike his habitual garrulous animation , an unfamiliar inflexibility . 
It isn't like him , she whispered , awed by this alien dignity . 
I remember her chiefly as she talked and wept upon the bridge below the old castle . 
We had got rid of some amateurish reporters from Biarritz , and had walked together in the hot morning sunshine down through Port Luzon . 
There , for a time , we stood leaning on the parapet of the bridge and surveying the distant peeks , the rich blue masses of the Pyrenees . 
For a long time we said nothing , and then she began talking . 
Life's a rum Go , George ! she began . 
And here we are in a dream . 
You a man and me an old woman , George . 
And poor little Teddy , who used to rush about and talk making that noise he did Oh ! She choked , and the tears flowed unrestrained . 
She wept , and I was glad to see her weeping . 
She stood leaning over the bridge her tear wet handkerchief gripped in her clenched hand . 
Just an hour in the old shop again and him talking . 
Before they got hold of him . 
Men oughtn't to be so tempted with business and things . 
They didn't hurt him , George ? she asked suddenly . 
For a moment I was puzzled . 
Here , I mean , she said . 
No , I lied stoutly , suppressing the memory of that foolish injection needle I had caught the young doctor using . 
I wonder , George , if they'll let him talk in Heaven . 
Oh ! George , dear , my heart aches , and I don't know what I say and do . 
Give me your arm to lean on it's good to have you , dear , and lean upon you . 
Yes , I know you care for me . 
We've always loved one another , and never said anything about it , and you understand , and I understand . 
But my heart's torn to pieces by this , torn to rags , and things drop out I've kept in it . 
It's true he wasn't a husband much for me at the last . 
I was clever enough to see it , and not clever enough to prevent it , and all I could do was to jeer . 
I've had to make what I could of it . 
But it wasn't fair , George . 
I think that in a way , his death produced a reaction in my favour and my flight , of which some particulars now appeared stuck in the popular imagination . 
It seemed a more daring and difficult feat than it was , and I couldn't very well write to the papers to sustain my private estimate . 
There can be little doubt that men infinitely prefer the appearance of dash and enterprise to simple honesty . 
No one believed I was not an arch plotter in his financing . 
I got work for Cothope with the Ilchesters , for whom I now build these destroyers . 
They wanted him at once , and he was short of money , so I let him go and managed very philosophically by myself . 
Moreover , it was weary with the frightful pile of figures and documents at the Hardingham , a task to which this raid to Lady Grove was simply an interlude . 
I did not instantly rise . 
She looked at me steadily . 
Me , she said I did not trouble about any civilities . 
I stood up and asked point blank a question that came into my head . 
Whose horse is that ? I said . 
She looked me in the eyes . 
How did you get here this way ? The wall's down . 
Down ? Already ? A great bit of it between the plantations . 
And you rode through , and got here by chance ? I saw you yesterday . 
And I rode over to see you . 
I had now come close to her , and stood looking up into her face . 
I'm a mere vestige , I said . 
She made no answer , but remained regarding me steadfastly with a curious air of proprietorship . 
You know I'm the living survivor now of the great smash . 
I'm rolling and dropping down through all the scaffolding of the social system . 
It's all a chance whether I roll out free at the bottom , or go down a crack into the darkness out of sight for a year or two . 
The sun , she remarked irrelevantly , has burnt you . 
She swung herself down into my arms , and stood beside me face to face . 
Where's Cothope ? she asked . 
Her eyes flitted to the pavilion and back to me . 
We stood close together , extraordinarily intimate , and extraordinarily apart . 
I've never seen this cottage of yours , she said , and I want to . 
She flung the bridle of her horse round the veranda post , and I helped her tie it . 
Did you get what you went for to Africa ? she asked . 
No , I said , I lost my ship . 
And that lost everything ? Everything . 
She walked before me into the living room of the chalet , and I saw that she gripped her riding whip very tightly in her hand . 
She looked about her for a moment , and then at me . 
It's comfortable , she remarked . 
Our eyes met in a conversation very different from the one upon our lips . 
A sombre glow surrounded us , drew us together an unwonted shyness kept us apart . 
She roused herself , after an instant's pause , to examine my furniture . 
I thought men were too feckless to have curtains without a woman . 
But , of course , your aunt did that ! And a couch and a brass fender , and is that a pianola ? That is your desk . 
I thought men's desks were always untidy , and covered with dust and tobacco ash . 
She flitted to my colour prints and my little case of books . 
Then she went to the pianola . 
Does this thing play ? she said . 
Does this thing play ? I roused myself from my preoccupation . 
Like a musical gorilla with fingers all of one length . 
And a sort of soul . 
It's all the world of music to me . 
What do you play ? Beethoven , when I want to clear up my head while I'm working . 
He is how one would always like to work . 
Sometimes Chopin and those others , but Beethoven . 
She spoke with an effort . 
She turned from me and explored the rack of music rolls , became interested and took a piece , the first part of the Kreutzer Sonata , hesitated . 
No , she said , that ! She gave me Brahms' Second Concerto , Op . 
, and curled up on the sofa watching me as I set myself slowly to play . 
I say , he said when I had done , that's fine . 
I didn't know those things could play like that . 
She came and stood over me , looking at me . 
I'm going to have a concert , she said abruptly , and laughed uneasily and hovered at the pigeon holes . 
Now now what shall I have ? She chose more of Brahms . 
Then we came to the Kreutzer Sonata . 
It is queer how Tolstoy has loaded that with suggestions , debauched it , made it a scandalous and intimate symbol . 
When I had played the first part of that , she came up to the pianola and hesitated over me . 
Suddenly she seized my downcast head and kissed my hair . 
She caught at my face between her hands and kissed my lips . 
I put my arms about her and we kissed together . 
I sprang to my feet and clasped her . 
Beatrice ! My dear , she whispered , nearly breathless , with her arms about me . 
I tell of this love affair here because of its irrelevance , because it is so remarkable that it should mean nothing , and be nothing except itself . 
It glows in my memory like some bright casual flower starting up amidst the debris of a catastrophe . 
For nearly a fortnight we two met and made love together . 
Once more I had the persuasion This matters . 
Nothing else matters so much as this . 
We were both infinitely grave in such happiness as we had . 
I do not remember any laughter at all between us . 
Twelve days it lasted from that encounter in my chalet until our parting . 
Except at the end , they were days of supreme summer , and there was a waxing moon . 
We met recklessly day by day . 
We talked of ten thousand things , and of ourselves . 
There is no prose of mine that can tell of hours transfigured . 
Everything we touched , the meanest things , became glorious . 
How can I render bare tenderness and delight and mutual possession ? I sit here at my desk thinking of untellable things . 
I have come to know so much of love that I know now what love might be . 
We loved , scarred and stained we parted basely and inevitably , but at least I met love . 
And yet indeed I had not known nor suspected it , save perhaps for a luminous , transitory suspicion ever and again . 
She made me see how life had shaped her . 
She told me of her girlhood after I had known her . 
We were poor and pretending and managing . 
We hacked about on visits and things . 
I ought to have married . 
The chances I had weren't particularly good chances . 
She spoke now with downcast eyes , and one finger just touching the water . 
One gets bored , bored beyond redemption . 
One does about to these huge expensive houses I suppose the scale's immense . 
One makes one's self useful to the other women , and agreeable to the men . 
One has food and exercise and leisure , It's the leisure , and the space , and the blank opportunity it seems a sin not to fill . 
Carnaby isn't like the other men . 
They go about making love . 
And I don't do things by halves . 
You knew ? she asked , looking up , quite steadily . 
Since when ? Those last days . 
It hasn't seemed to matter really . 
I was a little surprised She looked at me quietly . 
Cothope knew , she said . 
I suppose , I began , once , this would have mattered immensely . 
Now Nothing matters , she said , completing me . 
I felt I had to tell you . 
I wanted you to understand why I didn't marry you with both hands . 
I have loved you she paused have loved you ever since the day I kissed you in the bracken . 
And suddenly she dropped her face upon her hands , and sobbed passionately I forgot I forgot , she cried , and became still . 
I dabbled my paddle in the water . 
Look here ! I said forget again ! Here am I a ruined man . 
She shook her head without looking up . 
We were still for a long time . 
Marry me ! I whispered . 
She looked up , twined back a whisp of hair , and answered dispassionately I wish I could . 
Anyhow , we have had this time . 
It has been a fine time has it been for you also ? I haven't nudged you all I had to give . 
It's a poor gift except for what it means and might have been . 
But we are near the end of it now . 
Do you really think that of me ? Haven't you seen me all ? I hesitated . 
Never once have I really meant marrying you , she insisted . 
I fell in love with you from the first . 
But when you seemed a successful man , I told myself I wouldn't . 
I was love sick for you , and you were so stupid , I came near it then . 
But I knew I wasn't good enough . 
What could I have been to you ? A woman with bad habits and bad associations , a woman smirched . 
Forgive me for talking sense to you now , but I wanted to tell you this somehow . 
She stopped at my gesture . 
I sat up , and the canoe rocked with my movement . 
I don't care , I said . 
I want to marry you and make you my wife ! No , she said , don't spoil things . 
Don't spoil it , she cried . 
I have given you all I have , I have given you all I can . 
If I could do it , if I was good enough to do it , I would . 
But I am a woman spoilt and ruined , dear , and you are a ruined man . 
When we are making love we're lovers but think of the gulf between us in habits and ways of thought , in will and training , when we are not making love . 
Think of it and don't think of it ! Don't think of it yet . 
We have snatched some hours . 
We still may have some hours ! She suddenly knelt forward toward me , with a glowing darkness in her eyes . 
Who cares if it upsets ? she cried . 
If you say another word I will kiss you . 
And go to the bottom clutching you . 
I'm not afraid of that . 
I'm not a bit afraid of that . 
Choose a death , and I'll die with you readily . 
Do listen to me ! I love you . 
I shall always love you . 
It's because I love you that I won't go down to become a dirty familiar thing with you amidst the grime . 
I've given all I can . 
I've had all I can . 
Look at the warm evening light in the sky . 
Who cares if the canoe upsets ? Come nearer to me . 
Oh , my love ! come near ! So . 
She drew me to her and our lips met . 
III I asked her to marry me once again . 
It was our last morning together , and we had met very early , about sunrise , knowing that we were to part . 
No sun shone that day . 
The sky was overcast , the morning chilly and lit by a clear , cold , spiritless light . 
A heavy dampness in the air verged close on rain . 
When I think of that morning , it has always the quality of greying ashes wet with rain . 
The spring had gone out of her movement it came to me , for the first time , that some day she might grow old . 
She had become one flesh with the rest of common humanity the softness had gone from her voice and manner , the dusky magic of her presence had gone . 
I saw these things with perfect clearness , and they made me sorry for them and for her . 
But they altered my love not a whit , abated it nothing . 
And when we had talked awkwardly for half a dozen sentences , I came dully to my point . 
And now , I cried , will you marry me ? No , she said , I shall keep to my life here . 
I asked her to marry me in a year's time . 
This world is a soft world , I said , in spite of my present disasters . 
I know now how to do things . 
If I had you to work for in a year I could be a prosperous man No , she said , I will put it brutally , I shall go back to Carnaby . 
But ! I did not feel angry . 
I had no sort of jealousy , no wounded pride , no sense of injury . 
I had only a sense of grey desolation , of hopeless cross purposes . 
Look here , she said . 
I have been awake all night and every night . 
I have been thinking of this every moment when we have not been together . 
I'm not answering you on an impulse . 
I'll say that over ten thousand times . 
But here we are The rest of life together , I said . 
Now we have been together . 
We are full of memories I do not feel I can ever forget a single one . 
Nor I. And I want to close it and leave it at that . 
You see , dear , what else is there to do ? She turned her white face to me . 
All I know of love , all I have ever dreamt or learnt of love I have packed into these days for you . 
You think we might live together and go on loving . 
No ! For you I will have no vain repetitions . 
You have had the best and all of me . 
Would you have us , after this , meet again in London or Paris or somewhere , scuffle to some wretched dressmaker's , meet in a cabinet particulier ? No , I said . 
I want you to marry me . 
I want you to play the game of life with me as an honest woman should . 
Come and live with me . 
Be my wife and squaw . 
I looked at her white , drawn face , and it seemed to me I might carry her yet . 
We'll fight it through ! I'm not such a simple lover that I'll not tell you plainly when you go wrong , and fight our difference out with you . 
It's the one thing I want , the one thing I need to have you , and more of you and more ! This love making it's love making . 
It's just a part of us , an incident She shook her head and stopped me abruptly . 
It's all , she said . 
She turned her eyes to me and they shone with tears . 
I wouldn't have you say anything but what you're saying , she said . 
But it's nonsense , dear . 
You know it's nonsense as you say it . 
I tried to keep up the heroic note , but she would not listen to it . 
It's no good , she cried almost petulantly . 
This little world has made us what we are . 
Don't you see don't you see what I am ? I can make love . 
I can make love and be loved , prettily . 
Dear , don't blame me . 
I have given you all I have . 
If I had anything more . 
I have gone through it all over and over again thought it out . 
This morning my head aches , my eyes ache . 
The light has gone out of me and I am a sick and tired woman . 
But I'm talking wisdom bitter wisdom . 
I couldn't be any sort of helper to you , any sort of wife , any sort of mother . 
I'm spoilt by this rich idle way of living , until every habit is wrong , every taste wrong . 
People can be ruined by wealth just as much as by poverty . 
You know what I am ! You know . 
You are too clear and simple not to know the truth . 
You try to romance and hector , but you know the truth . 
I am a little cad sold and done . 
My dear , you think I've been misbehaving , but all these days I've been on my best behaviour . 
You don't understand , because you're a man . 
A woman , when she's spoilt , is SPOILT . 
You're a fool to want me , she said . 
You're a fool to want me for my sake just as much as yours . 
We've done all we can . 
It's just romancing She dashed the tears from her eyes and turned upon me . 
Don't you understand ? she challenged . 
Don't you know ? We faced one another in silence for a moment . 
Yes , I said , I know . 
For a long time we spoke never a word , but walked on together , slowly and sorrowfully , reluctant to turn about towards our parting . 
When at last we did , she broke silence again . 
I've had you , she said . 
Heaven and hell , I said , can't alter that . 
I've wanted she went on . 
I've talked to you in the nights and made up speeches . 
Now when I want to make them I'm tongue tied . 
But to me it's just as if the moments we have had lasted for ever . 
Moods and states come and go . 
To day my light is out . 
To this day I cannot determine whether she said or whether I imagined she said chloral . 
Perhaps a half conscious diagnosis flashed it on my brain . 
Perhaps I am the victim of some perverse imaginative freak of memory , some hinted possibility that scratched and seared . 
There the word stands in my memory , as if it were written in fire . 
We came to the door of Lady Osprey's garden at last , and it was beginning to drizzle . 
She held out her hands and I took them . 
Yours , she said , in a weary unimpassioned voice all that I had such as it was . 
Will you forget ? Never , I answered . 
Never a touch or a word of it ? No. You will , she said . 
We looked at one another in silence , and her face full of fatigue and misery . 
What could I do ? What was there to do ? I wish I said , and stopped . 
IV That should have been the last I saw of her , but , indeed , I was destined to see her once again . 
The encounter jumped upon us unprepared . 
She rode by , her eyes dark in her white face , and scarcely noticed me . 
She winced and grew stiff at the sight of me and bowed her head . 
But Carnaby , because he thought I was a broken and discomfited man , saluted me with an easy friendliness , and shouted some genial commonplace to me . 
They passed out of sight and left me by the roadside . 
And then , indeed , I tasted the ultimate bitterness of life . 
For the first time I felt utter futility , and was wrung by emotion that begot no action , by shame and pity beyond words . 
My face was wrung , and tears came pouring down my cheeks . 
All the magic she had for me had changed to wild sorrow . 
Oh God ! I cried , this is too much , and turned my face after her and made appealing gestures to the beech trees and cursed at fate . 
I wanted to do preposterous things , to pursue her , to save her , to turn life back so that she might begin again . 
I wonder what would have happened had I overtaken them in pursuit , breathless with running , uttering incoherent words , weeping , expostulatory . 
I came near to doing that . 
There was nothing in earth or heaven to respect my curses or weeping . 
In the midst of it a man who had been trimming the opposite hedge appeared and stared at me . 
Abruptly , ridiculously , I dissembled before him and went on and caught my train . 
But the pain I felt then I have felt a hundred times it is with me as I write . 
It haunts this book , I see , that is what haunts this book , from end to end . 
CHAPTER THE THIRD NIGHT AND THE OPEN SEA I I have tried throughout all this story to tell things as they happened to me . 
But whether I have succeeded I cannot imagine . 
All this writing is grey now and dead and trite and unmeaning to me some of it I know by heart . 
I am the last person to judge it . 
As I turn over the big pile of manuscript before me certain things become clearer to me , and particularly the immense inconsequences of my experiences . 
It is , I see now that I have it all before me , a story of activity and urgency and sterility . 
I have called it Tono Bungay , but I had far better have called it Waste . 
I have told of childless Marion , of my childless aunt , of Beatrice wasted and wasteful and futile . 
What hope is there for a people whose women become fruitless ? I think of all the energy I have given to vain things . 
I think of my industrious scheming with my uncle , of Crest Hill's vast cessation , of his resonant strenuous career . 
Ten thousand men have envied him and wished to live as he lived . 
And now I build destroyers ! Other people may see this country in other terms this is how I have seen it . 
In some early chapter in this heap I compared all our present colour and abundance to October foliage before the frosts nip down the leaves . 
That I still feel was a good image . 
It may be I see decay all about me because I am , in a sense , decay . 
To others it may be a scene of achievement and construction radiant with hope . 
How they will look in history I do not know , how time and chance will prove them I cannot guess that is how they have mirrored themselves on one contemporary mind . 
II Concurrently with writing the last chapter of this book I have been much engaged by the affairs of a new destroyer we have completed . 
It has been an oddly complementary alternation of occupations . 
Three weeks or so ago this novel had to be put aside in order that I might give all my time day and night to the fitting and finishing of the engines . 
Last Thursday X , for so we call her , was done and I took her down the Thames and went out nearly to Texel for a trial of speed . 
It is curious how at times one's impressions will all fuse and run together into a sort of unity and become continuous with things that have hitherto been utterly alien and remote . 
That rush down the river became mysteriously connected with this book . 
As I passed down the Thames I seemed in a new and parallel manner to be passing all England in review . 
I saw it then as I had wanted my readers to see it . 
The thought came to me slowly as I picked my way through the Pool it stood out clear as I went dreaming into the night out upon the wide North Sea . 
It wasn't so much thinking at the time as a sort of photographic thought that came and grew clear . 
I lived with my hands and eyes hard ahead . 
I thought nothing then of any appearances but obstacles , but for all that the back of my mind took the photographic memory of it complete and vivid . 
This , it came to me , is England . 
That is what I wanted to give in my book . 
This ! We started in the late afternoon . 
We throbbed out of our yard above Hammersmith Bridge , fussed about for a moment , and headed down stream . 
We cleared a string of coal barges and there on the left in the October sunshine stood the Parliament houses , and the flag was flying and Parliament was sitting . 
I saw it at the time unseeingly afterwards it came into my mind as the centre of the whole broad panoramic effect of that afternoon . 
Aren't you going to respect me , then ? it seemed to say . 
I have been near enough to know . 
The Irish and the Labour men run about among their feet , making a fuss , effecting little , they've got no better plans that I can see . 
A wonderful spectacle ! It is quaint , no doubt , this England it is even dignified in places and full of mellow associations . 
That does not alter the quality of the realities these robes conceal . 
I have thought much of that bright afternoon's panorama . 
To run down the Thames so is to run one's hand over the pages in the book of England from end to end . 
One begins in Craven Reach and it is as if one were in the heart of old England . 
The whole effect is English . 
There is space , there are old trees and all the best qualities of the home land in that upper reach . 
Putney , too , looks Anglican on a dwindling scale . 
The northward skyline grows more intricate and pleasing , and more and more does one thank God for Wren . 
Somerset House is as picturesque as the civil war , one is reminded again of the original England , one feels in the fretted sky the quality of Restoration Lace . 
And then comes Astor's strong box and the lawyers' Inns . 
And in this reach , too , one first meets the seagulls and is reminded of the sea . 
And then the traditional and ostensible England falls from you altogether . 
The third movement begins , the last great movement in the London symphony , in which the trim scheme of the old order is altogether dwarfed and swallowed up . 
Again and again in this book I have written of England as a feudal scheme overtaken by fatty degeneration and stupendous accidents of hypertrophy . 
That Tower Bridge is the very balance and confirmation of Westminster's dull pinnacles and tower . 
That sham Gothic bridge in the very gates of our mother of change , the Sea ! But after that one is in a world of accident and nature . 
For the third part of the panorama of London is beyond all law , order , and precedence it is the seaport and the sea . 
And amidst it all no plan appears , no intention , no comprehensive desire . 
That is the very key of it all . 
Through it we dodged and drove eager for the high seas . 
I remember how I laughed aloud at the glimpse of the name of a London County Council steamboat that ran across me . 
Caxton it was called , and another was Pepys , and another was Shakespeare . 
They seemed so wildly out of place , splashing about in that confusion . 
One wanted to take them out and wipe them and put them back in some English gentleman's library . 
Past it all we drove . 
And out you come at last with the sun behind you into the eastern sea . 
They stand out , bound on strange missions of life and death , to the killing of men in unfamiliar lands . 
We tear into the great spaces of the future and the turbines fall to talking in unfamiliar tongues . 
Out to the open we go , to windy freedom and trackless ways . 
Light after light goes down . 
England and the Kingdom , Britain and the Empire , the old prides and the old devotions , glide abeam , astern , sink down upon the horizon , pass pass . 
The river passes London passes , England passes . 
III This is the note I have tried to emphasise , the note that sounds clear in my mind when I think of anything beyond the purely personal aspects of my story . 
It is a note of crumbling and confusion , of change and seemingly aimless swelling , of a bubbling up and medley of futile loves and sorrows . 
But through the confusion sounds another note . 
Through the confusion something drives , something that is at once human achievement and the most inhuman of all existing things . 
Something comes out of it . 
How can I express the values of a thing at once so essential and so immaterial . 
It is something that calls upon such men as I with an irresistible appeal . 
I have figured it in my last section by the symbol of my destroyer , stark and swift , irrelevant to most human interests . 
Sometimes I call this reality Science , sometimes I call it Truth . 
But it is something we draw by pain and effort ont of the heart of life , that we disentangle and make clear . 
Other men serve it , I know , in art , in literature , in social invention , and see it in a thousand different figures , under a hundred names . 
I see it always as austerity , as beauty . 
This thing we make clear is the heart of life . 
It is the one enduring thing . 
Men and nations , epochs and civilisation pass each making its contribution I do not know what it is , this something , except that it is supreme . 
It is , a something , a quality , an element , one may find now in colours , now in norms , now in sounds , now in thoughts . 
Far out to the northeast there came the flicker of a squadron of warships waving white swords of light about the sky . 
I kept them hull down , and presently they were mere summer lightning over the watery edge of the globe . 
I recall the back views of those journalists very distinctly , going with a certain damp weariness of movement , along a side street away from the river . 
Though as a matter of fact , X isn't intended for the empire , or indeed for the hands of any European power . 
We offered it to our own people first , but they would have nothing to do with me , and I have long since ceased to trouble much about such questions . 
I have come to see myself from the outside , my country from the outside without illusions . 
We are all things that make and pass striving upon a hidden mission , out to the open sea . 
