The Travels of Sir John Mandeville Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
And in that land he would die , as seised , to leave it to us , his children . 
For we be clept Christian men , after Christ our Father . 
And if we be right children of Christ , we ought for to challenge the heritage , that our Father left us , and do it out of heathen men's hands . 
And the common people , that would put their bodies and their chattels , to conquer our heritage , they may not do it without the lords . 
Albans , and passed the sea in the year of our Lord Jesu Christ , , in the day of St . 
And I shall tell the way that they shall hold thither . 
For I have often times passed and ridden that way , with good company of many lords . 
And the King of Hungary is a great lord and a mighty , and holdeth great lordships and much land in his hand . 
And there pass men the river of Danube . 
And after , go men to Belgrade , and enter into the land of Bougiers and there pass men a bridge of stone that is upon the river of Marrok . 
And there dwelleth commonly the Emperor of Greece . 
And there is the most fair church and the most noble of all the world and it is of Saint Sophie . 
And before that church is the image of Justinian the emperor , covered with gold , and he sitteth upon an horse y crowned . 
And he was wont to hold a round apple of gold in his hand but it is fallen out thereof . 
But he hath lost all but Greece and that land he holds all only . 
And men would many times put the apple into the image's hand again , but it will not hold it . 
This apple betokeneth the lordship that he had over all the world , that is round . 
And the tother hand he lifteth up against the East , in token to menace the misdoers . 
This image stands upon a pillar of marble at Constantinople . 
And there is one of the nails , that Christ was nailed with on the cross . 
For that cross that is in Cyprus , is the cross , in the which Dismas the good thief was hanged on . 
But all men know not that and that is evil y done . 
For for profit of the offering , they say that it is the cross of our Lord Jesu Christ . 
And therefore made they the foot of the cross of cedar for cedar may not , in earth nor water , rot , and therefore they would that it should have lasted long . 
And so trowed the Jews for to have peace , when Christ was dead for they said that he made discord and strife amongst them . 
And ye shall understand that our Lord was y nailed on the cross lying , and therefore he suffered the more pain . 
But the angel would not let him come in but said to him , that he might not have of the oil of mercy . 
And of these three grains sprang a tree , as the angel said that it should , and bare a fruit , through the which fruit Adam should be saved . 
And when Seth came again , he found his father near dead . 
Helen , that was mother to Constantine the Emperor of Rome . 
And ye shall understand , that the cross of our Lord was eight cubits long , and the overthwart piece was of length three cubits and a half . 
And the crown lieth in a vessel of crystal richly dight . 
For a king of France bought these relics some time of the Jews , to whom the emperor had laid them in wed for a great sum of silver . 
For I have seen and beholden many times that of Paris and that of Constantinople for they were both one , made of rushes of the sea . 
But men have departed them in two parts of the which , one part is at Paris , and the other part is at Constantinople . 
And I have one of those precious thorns , that seemeth like a white thorn and that was given to me for great specially . 
And in that same garden , Saint Peter denied our Lord thrice . 
And afterward he was led into a garden of Caiphas , and there he was crowned with eglantine . 
And after he was led into the chamber of Pilate , and there he was examined and crowned . 
And this crown had Christ on his head , when he was done upon the cross and therefore ought men to worship it and hold it more worthy than any of the others . 
And the spear shaft hath the Emperor of Almayne but the head is at Paris . 
And natheles the Emperor of Constantinople saith that he hath the spear head and I have often time seen it , but it is greater than that at Paris . 
CHAPTER III OF THE CITY OF CONSTANTINOPLE , AND OF THE FAITH OF GREEKS AT Constantinople lieth Saint Anne , our Lady's mother , whom Saint Helen let bring from Jerusalem . 
And there lieth also the body of John Chrisostome , that was Archbishop of Constantinople . 
And there lieth also Saint Luke the Evangelist for his bones were brought from Bethany , where he was buried . 
And many other relics be there . 
Constantinople is a full fair city , and a good , and well walled and it is three cornered . 
About Greece there be many isles , as Calliste , Calcas , Oertige , Tesbria , Mynia , Flaxon , Melo , Carpate , and Lemnos . 
And in this isle is the mount Athos , that passeth the clouds . 
In this country was Aristotle born , in a city that men clepe Stagyra , a little from the city of Thrace . 
And at Stagyra lieth Aristotle and there is an altar upon his tomb . 
And there make men great feasts for him every year , as though he were a saint . 
And at his altar they holden their great councils and their assemblies , and they hope , that through inspiration of God and of him , they shall have the better council . 
In this country be right high hills , toward the end of Macedonia . 
And there is a great hill , that men clepe Olympus , that departeth Macedonia and Thrace . 
And it is so high , that it passeth the clouds . 
And above , in the dust and in the powder of those hills , they wrote letters and figures with their fingers . 
And at the year's end they came again , and found the same letters and figures , the which they had written the year before , without any default . 
And therefore it seemeth well , that these hills pass the clouds and join to the pure air . 
At Constantinople is the palace of the emperor , right fair and well dight and therein is a fair place for joustings , or for other plays and desports . 
And it is made with stages , and hath degrees about , that every man may well see , and none grieve other . 
And under these stages be stables well vaulted for the emperor's horses and all the pillars be of marble . 
And within the Church of Saint Sophia , an emperor sometime would have buried the body of his father , when he was dead . 
And the date when it was laid in the earth , was two thousand year before our Lord was born . 
And yet is the plate of gold in the treasury of the church . 
And men say , that it was Hermogenes the wise man . 
And if all it so be , that men of Greece be Christian yet they vary from our faith . 
For they say , that the Holy Ghost may not come of the Son but all only of the Father . 
And they are not obedient to the Church of Rome , ne to the Pope . 
And they say that their Patriarch hath as much power over the sea , as the Pope hath on this side the sea . 
And therefore Pope John xxii . 
And they sent again diverse answers and among others they said thus POTENTIAM TUAM SUMMAM CIRCA TUOS SUBJECTOS , FIRMITER CREDIMUS . 
SUPERBIAM TUAM SUMMAM TOLERARE NON POSSUMUS . 
AVARITIAM TUAM SUMMAM SATIARE NON INTENDIMUS . 
DOMINUS TECUM QUIA DOMINUS NOBISCUM EST . 
That is to say 'We trow well , that thy power is great upon thy subjects . 
We may not suffer thine high pride . 
We be not in purpose to fulfil thy great covetise . 
Lord be with thee for our Lord is with us . 
And other answer might he not have of them . 
And also they make their sacrament of the altar of Therf bread , for our Lord made it of such bread , when he made his Maundy . 
And they make but one unction , when they christen children . 
And they anoint not the sick men . 
And they say that there is no Purgatory , and that souls shall not have neither joy ne pain till the day of doom . 
And their priests also be wedded . 
And they say also that usury is no deadly sin . 
And they sell benefices of Holy Church . 
And they fast not on the Saturday , no time of the year , but it be Christmas Even or Easter Even . 
And they suffer not the Latins to sing at their altars and if they do , by any adventure , anon they wash the altar with holy water . 
And they say that there should be but one Mass said at one altar upon one day . 
And they say also that our Lord ne ate never meat but he made token of eating . 
And also they say , that we sin deadly in shaving our beards , for the beard is token of a man , and gift of our Lord . 
And they accurse all those that abstain them to eat flesh the Saturday . 
And so is he lord both temporal and spiritual in his country . 
For many men have great liking , to hear speak of strange things of diverse countries . 
CHAPTER IV Of the Way from Constantinople to Jerusalem . 
Of Saint John the Evangelist . 
And of the Ypocras Daughter , transformed from a Woman to a Dragon NOW return I again , for to teach you the way from Constantinople to Jerusalem . 
And whoso will go by water , by the brace of St . 
George , and by the sea where St . 
Nicholas lieth , and toward many other places first men go to an isle that is clept Sylo . 
In that isle groweth mastick on small trees , and out of them cometh gum as it were of plum trees or of cherry trees . 
And after go men through the isle of Patmos and there wrote St . 
John the Evangelist the Apocalypse . 
And ye shall understand , that St . 
From Patmos men go unto Ephesus , a fair city and nigh to the sea . 
John , and was buried behind the high altar in a tomb . 
And there is a fair church for Christian men were wont to holden that place always . 
And in the tomb of St . 
John is nought but manna , that is clept angels' meat for his body was translated into Paradise . 
And Turks hold now all that place , and the city and the church and all Asia the less is y clept Turkey . 
And ye shall understand , that St . 
And , forsooth , there is a great marvel for men may see there the earth of the tomb apertly many times stir and move , as there were quick things under . 
And from Ephesus men go through many isles in the sea , unto the city of Patera , where St . 
Nicholas was born , and so to Martha , where he was chosen to be bishop and there groweth right good wine and strong , and that men call wine of Martha . 
And from thence go men to the isle of Crete , that the emperor gave sometime to the Genoese . 
And then pass men through the isles of Colcos and of Lango , of the which isles Ypocras was lord of . 
And they of the isles call her Lady of the Land . 
And she was thus changed and transformed , from a fair damosel , into likeness of a dragon , by a goddess that was clept Diana . 
And it is not long sithen , that a knight of Rhodes , that was hardy and doughty in arms , said that he would kiss her . 
And when he was upon his courser , and went to the castle , and entered into the cave , the dragon lift up her head against him . 
And when the knight saw her in that form so hideous and so horrible he fled away . 
And the dragon bare the knight upon a rock , maugre his head and from that rock , she cast him into the sea . 
And so was lost both horse and man . 
And he trowed that she had been a common woman , that dwelled there to receive men to folly . 
And he abode , till the damosel saw the shadow of him in the mirror . 
And she turned her toward him , and asked him what he would ? And he said , he would be her leman or paramour . 
And she asked him , if that he were a knight ? And he said , nay . 
And if thou kiss me , thou shalt have all this treasure , and be my lord , and lord also of all the isle . 
And he departed from her and went to his fellows to ship , and let make him knight and came again upon the morrow for to kiss this damosel . 
And when she saw that he turned not again , she began to cry , as a thing that had much sorrow and then she turned again into her cave . 
And anon the knight died . 
And sithen hitherward might no knight see her , but that he died anon . 
And from thence men come to the isle of Rhodes , the which isle Hospitallers holden and govern and that took they some time from the emperor . 
And it was wont to be clept Collos and so call it the Turks yet . 
And Saint Paul in his epistle writeth to them of that isle AD COLOSSENSES . 
This isle is nigh eight hundred mile long from Constantinople . 
For he had a fair damosel , that he loved well to his paramour and she died suddenly , and was done in a tomb of marble . 
And there be many perilous passages without fail . 
From Rhodes to Cyprus be five hundred mile and more . 
But men may go to Cyprus , and come not at Rhodes . 
Cyprus is right a good isle , and a fair and a great , and it hath four principal cities within him . 
And there is an Archbishop at Nicosea , and four other bishops in that land . 
And at Famagost is one of the principal havens of the sea that is in the world and there arrive Christian men and Saracens and men of all nations . 
In Cyprus is the Hill of the Holy Cross and there is an abbey of monks black and there is the cross of Dismas the good thief , as I have said before . 
And some men trow , that there is half the cross of our Lord but it is not so , and they do evil that make men to believe so . 
In Cyprus lieth Saint Zenonimus , of whom men of that country make great solemnity . 
And in the castle of Amours lieth the body of Saint Hilarion , and men keep it right worshipfully . 
And beside Famagost was Saint Barnabas the apostle born . 
In Cyprus is the manner of lords and all other men all to eat on the earth . 
And the skill is for they may be the more fresh for that land is much more hotter than it is here . 
And at great feasts , and for strangers , they set forms and tables , as men do in this country , but they had lever sit in the earth . 
On the sea side men may find many rubies . 
And there our Lord forgave the woman of Canaan her sins . 
And before Tyre was wont to be the stone , on the which our Lord sat and preached , and on that stone was founded the Church of Saint Saviour . 
And eight mile from Tyre , toward the east , upon the sea , is the city of Sarphen , in Sarepta of Sidonians . 
And there was wont for to dwell Elijah the prophet and there raised he Jonas , the widow's son , from death to life . 
And in the city of Tyre , reigned Agenor , the father of Dido . 
And sixteen mile from Sidon is Beirout . 
And from Beirout to Sardenare is three journeys and from Sardenare is five mile to Damascus . 
And whoso will go long time on the sea , and come nearer to Jerusalem , he shall go from Cyprus by sea to Port Jaffa . 
For that is the next haven to Jerusalem for from that haven is not but one day journey and a half to Jerusalem . 
And the town is called Jaffa for one of the sons of Noah that hight Japhet founded it , and now it is clept Joppa . 
And ye shall understand , that it is one of the oldest towns of the world , for it was founded before Noah's flood . 
And whoso will arrive at the port of Tyre or of Surrye , that I have spoken of before , may go by land , if he will , to Jerusalem . 
And men go from Surrye unto the city of Akon in a day . 
And it was clept some time Ptolemais . 
And it was some time a city of Christian men , full fair , but it is now destroyed and it stands upon the sea . 
This hill is not right great , nor full high . 
And at the foot of this hill was some time a good city of Christian men , that men clept Caiffa , for Caiaphas first founded it but it is now all wasted . 
And on the left side of the Hill of Carmel is a town , that men clepe Saffre , and that is set on another hill . 
There Saint James and Saint John were born and , in worship of them there is a fair church . 
And from Ptolemais , that men clepe now Akon , unto a great hill , that is clept Scale of Tyre , is one hundred furlongs . 
And beside the city of Akon runneth a little river , that is clept Belon . 
And men come from far , by water in ships , and by land with carts , for to fetch of that gravel . 
And though there be never so much taken away thereof in the day , at morrow it is as full again as ever it was and that is a great marvel . 
And there is evermore great wind in that foss , that stirreth evermore the gravel , and maketh it trouble . 
And if any man do therein any manner metal , it turneth anon to glass . 
And the glass , that is made of that gravel , if it be done again into the gravel , it turneth anon into gravel as it was first . 
And therefore some men say , that it is a swallow of the gravelly sea . 
And therefore he made fall upon them a great hall , when they were at meat . 
And from thence go men to the city of Cesarea , and so to the Castle of Pilgrims , and so to Ascalon and then to Jaffa , and so to Jerusalem . 
And for to go to the Mount of Sinai , before that men go to Jerusalem , they shall go from Gaza to the Castle of Daire . 
And men clepe that wilderness Achelleke . 
And when a man cometh out of that desert , he entereth into Egypt , that men clepe Egypt Canopac , and after other language , men clepe it Morsyn . 
And there first men find a good town , that is clept Belethe and it is at the end of the kingdom of Aleppo . 
And from thence men go to Babylon and to Cairo . 
And there lieth the body of Saint Barbara the virgin and martyr . 
And there dwelled Joseph , when he was sold of his brethren . 
in a fair castle , strong and great , and well set upon a rock . 
In that castle dwell alway , to keep it and to serve the soldan , more then persons , that take all their necessaries off the soldan's court . 
I ought right well to know it for I dwelled with him as soldier in his wars a great while against the Bedouins . 
And ye shall understand that the soldan is lord of five kingdoms , that he hath conquered and appropred to him by strength . 
And many other lands he holdeth in his hand . 
And therewithal he holdeth caliphs , that is a full great thing in their language , and it is as much to say as king . 
And there were wont to be five soldans but now there is no more but he of Egypt . 
And the first soldan was Zarocon , that was of Media , as was father to Saladin that took the Caliph of Egypt and slew him , and was made soldan by strength . 
After that was Soldan Saladin , in whose time the King of England , Richard the First , with many other , kept the passage , that Saladin ne might not pass . 
After Saladin reigned his son Boradin , and after him his nephew . 
And after , they chose another to be soldan , that they clept Tympieman and he let deliver Saint Louis out of prison for a certain ransom . 
And after , one of these Comanians reigned , that hight Cachas , and slew Tympieman , for to be soldan and made him be clept Melechmenes . 
And after another that had to name Bendochdare , that slew Melechmenes , for to be sultan , and clept himself Melechdare . 
In his time entered the good King Edward of England into Syria , and did great harm to the Saracens . 
But the Comanians chased him out of the country , and did him much sorrow , and made one of themself soldan , that had to name Lachin . 
And after that , they were at great discord , for to make a soldan and finally they accorded to Melechnasser , that Guytoga had put in prison at Mountroyal . 
And all those be at his wages , and they be always at him , without the folk of his country , that is without number . 
And every each of them hath by year the mountance of six score florins but it behoveth , that every of them hold three horses and a camel . 
And when it is any dearth , the knights be right poor , and then they sell both their horse and their harness . 
And he hath as many paramours as him liketh . 
And also , no stranger cometh before him , but that he maketh him some promise and grant of that the stranger asketh reasonably by so it be not against his law . 
And though it be clept the Tower of Babylon , yet nevertheless , there were ordained within many mansions and many great dwelling places , in length and breadth . 
And that tower contained great country in circuit , for the tower alone contained ten mile square . 
That tower founded King Nimrod that was king of that country and he was the first king of the world . 
And from Babylon where the soldan dwelleth , to go right between the Orient and the Septentrion toward the great Babylon , is forty journeys to pass by desert . 
Also the city of Mecca where Mohammet lieth is of the great deserts of Arabia and there lieth the body of him full honourably in their temple , that the Saracens clepen Musketh . 
And it is from Babylon the less , where the soldan dwelleth , unto Mecca above said , into a thirty two journeys . 
And wit well , that the realm of Arabia is a full great country , but therein is over much desert . 
And no man may dwell there in that desert for default of water , for that land is all gravelly and full of sand . 
And it is dry and no thing fruitful , because that it hath no moisture and therefore is there so much desert . 
Arabia dureth from the ends of the realm of Chaldea unto the last end of Africa , and marcheth to the land of Idumea toward the end of Botron . 
And in Chaldea the chief city is Bagdad . 
Mesopotamia stretcheth also unto the deserts of Arabia , and it is a great country . 
In this country is the city of Haran , where Abraham's father dwelled , and from whence Abraham departed by commandment of the angel . 
And of that city was Ephraim , that was a great clerk and a great doctor . 
And Theophilus was of that city also , that our lady saved from our enemy . 
And Mesopotamia dureth from the river of Euphrates , unto the river of Tigris , for it is between those two rivers . 
And beyond the river of Tigris is Chaldea , that is a full great kingdom . 
Babylon sitteth upon the river of Gyson , sometimes clept Nile , that cometh out of Paradise terrestrial . 
For then may no man travail to plough the lands for the great moisture , and therefore is there dear time in that country . 
And also , when it waxeth little , it is dear time in that country , for default of moisture . 
This river cometh , running from Paradise terrestrial , between the deserts of Ind , and after it smiteth unto land , and runneth long time many great countries under earth . 
About this river be many birds and fowls , as sikonies , that they clepen ibes . 
For there it raineth not but little in that country , and for that cause they have no water , but if it be of that flood of that river . 
In Egypt there be two parts the height , that is toward Ethiopia , and the lower , that is toward Arabia . 
In Egypt is the land of Rameses and the land of Goshen . 
Egypt is a strong country , for it hath many shrewd havens because of the great rocks that be strong and dangerous to pass by . 
And toward the part meridional is Ethiopia . 
And toward the north is the desert , that dureth unto Syria , and so is the country strong on all sides . 
And it is well a fifteen journeys of length , and more than two so much of desert , and it is but two journeys in largeness . 
And between Egypt and Nubia it hath well a twelve journeys of desert . 
And men of Nubia be Christian , but they be black as the Moors for great heat of the sun . 
In Egypt there be five provinces that one is Sahythe that other Demeseer another Resith , that is an isle in the Nile another Alexandria and another the land of Damietta . 
At that city of Damietta is one of the havens of Egypt and at Alexandria is that other . 
In Egypt there be but few forcelets or castles , because that the country is so strong of himself . 
And the hermit asked him what he was . 
And the monster answered him , and said he was a deadly creature , such as God had formed , and dwelt in those deserts in purchasing his sustenance . 
and by whom we live and be . 
And yet is the head with the two horns of that monster at Alexandria for a marvel . 
In Egypt is the city of Heliopolis , that is to say , the city of the Sun . 
In that city there is a temple , made round after the shape of the Temple of Jerusalem . 
The priests of that temple have all their writings , under the date of the fowl that is clept phoenix and there is none but one in all the world . 
And he cometh to burn himself upon the altar of that temple at the end of five hundred year for so long he liveth . 
And so there is no more birds of that kind in all the world , but it alone , and truly that is a great miracle of God . 
And men may well liken that bird unto God , because that there ne is no God but one and also , that our Lord arose from death to life the third day . 
This bird men see often time fly in those countries and he is not mickle more than an eagle . 
And he is a full fair bird to look upon , against the sun , for he shineth full gloriously and nobly . 
Also in Egypt be gardens , that have trees and herbs , the which bear fruits seven times in the year . 
And in that land men find many fair emeralds and enough and therefore they be greater cheap . 
Also when it raineth once in the summer in the land of Egypt , then is all the country full of great mires . 
Also at Cairo , that I spake of before , sell men commonly both men and women of other laws as we do here beasts in the market . 
And they that keep that house cover them with heat of horse dung , without hen , goose or duck or any other fowl . 
And so men do there both winter and summer . 
And in that field be seven wells , that our Lord Jesu Christ made with one of his feet , when he went to play with other children . 
This balm groweth in no place , but only there . 
And men make always that balm to be tilled of the Christian men , or else it would not fructify as the Saracens say themselves , for it hath been often time proved . 
For men sell a gum , that men clepe turpentine , instead of balm , and they put thereto a little balm for to give good odour . 
And some put wax in oil of the wood of the fruit of balm , and say that it is balm . 
But if it like you , I shall shew how ye shall know and prove , to the end that ye shall not be deceived . 
Also take a little balm with the point of a knife , and touch it to the fire , and if it burn it is a good sign . 
Now I have spoken of balm . 
And they be made of stone , full well made of masons' craft of the which two be marvellously great and high , and the tother ne be not so great . 
And every garner hath a gate for to enter within , a little high from the earth for the land is wasted and fallen since the garners were made . 
And within they be all full of serpents . 
And above the garners without be many scriptures of diverse languages . 
In Egypt also there be diverse languages and diverse letters , and of other manner and condition than there be in other parts . 
But for to fulfil their pilgrimages more easily and more sikerly , men go first the longer way rather than the nearer way . 
And there be many havens where men take the sea . 
That isle holds in compass about French miles . 
And between Sicily and Italy there is not but a little arm of the sea , that men clepe the Farde of Messina . 
And Sicily is between the sea Adriatic and the sea of Lombardy . 
And from Sicily into Calabria is but eight miles of Lombardy . 
And thus many wedded men prove if the children be their own . 
Also in that isle is the Mount Etna , that men clepe Mount Gybelle , and the volcanoes that be evermore burning . 
And from Italy unto the volcanoes ne is but twenty five mile . 
And men say , that the volcanoes be ways of hell . 
And whoso goeth by Pisa , if that men list to go that way , there is an arm of the sea , where that men go to other havens in those marches . 
And then men pass by the isle of Greaf that is at Genoa . 
And after go men by water to the isle of Crete and to the isle of Rhodes , and so to Cyprus , and so to Athens , and from thence to Constantinople . 
To hold the more right way by sea , it is well a thousand eight hundred and four score mile of Lombardy . 
And from Damietta go men to the city of Alexandria , that sits also upon the sea . 
In that city was Saint Catherine beheaded and there was Saint Mark the evangelist martyred and buried , but the Emperor Leo made his bones to be brought to Venice . 
That city of Alexandria is well thirty furlongs in length , but it is but ten on largeness and it is a full noble city and a fair . 
At that city entereth the river of Nile into the sea , as I to you have said before . 
Now shall I say you also the way , that goeth from Babylon to the Mount of Sinai , where Saint Catherine lieth . 
He must pass by the deserts of Arabia , by the which deserts Moses led the people of Israel . 
And then pass men by the well that Moses made with his hand in the deserts , when the people grucched for they found nothing to drink . 
And from that valley is but a good journey to the Mount of Sinai . 
And whoso will go by another way from Babylon , then men go by the Red Sea , that is an arm of the sea Ocean . 
And there passed Moses with the children of Israel , over thwart the sea all dry , when Pharaoh the King of Egypt chased them . 
And that sea is well a six mile of largeness in length and in that sea was Pharaoh drowned and all his host that he led . 
That sea is not more red than another sea but in some place thereof is the gravel red , and therefore men clepen it the Red Sea . 
That sea runneth to the ends of Arabia and of Palestine . 
That sea lasteth more than a four journeys , and then go men by desert unto the Vale of Elim , and from thence to the Mount of Sinai . 
For the camel finds alway meat in trees and on bushes , that he feedeth him with and he may well fast from drink two days or three . 
And that may no horse do . 
And wit well that from Babylon to the Mount Sinai is well a twelve good journeys , and some men make them more . 
And some men hasten them and pain them , and therefore they make them less . 
And that was at the foot of the hill . 
There is an abbey of monks , well builded and well closed with gates of iron for dread of the wild beasts and the monks be Arabians or men of Greece . 
And this is a great marvel . 
And sith that fowls that have no kindly wit or reason go thither to seek that glorious Virgin , well more ought men then to seek her , and to worship her . 
Also behind the altar of that church is the place where Moses saw our Lord God in a burning bush . 
And the monks clepe that place Dozoleel , that is to say , the shadow of God . 
And beside the high altar , three degrees of height is the fertre of alabaster , where the bones of Saint Catherine lie . 
And then they shew the bush , that burned and wasted nought , in the which our Lord spake to Moses , and other relics enough . 
Also , when the prelate of the abbey is dead , I have understood , by information , that his lamp quencheth . 
And when they choose another prelate , if he be a good man and worthy to be prelate , his lamp shall light with the grace of God without touching of any man . 
For everych of them hath a lamp by himself , and by their lamps they know well when any of them shall die . 
For when any shall die , the light beginneth to change and to wax dim and if he be chosen to be prelate , and is not worthy , his lamp quencheth anon . 
And so upon a day , I asked of the monks , both one and other , how this befell . 
And then they told me , both one and other , how it befell full many a time , but more I might not have of them . 
Also , before the gate is the well , where Moses smote the stone , of the which the water came out plenteously . 
From that abbey men go up the mountain of Moses , by many degrees . 
And there men find first a church of our Lady , where that she met the monks , when they fled away for the vermin above said . 
And there nigh is the vine that Saint John the Evangelist planted that men clepe raisins of Staphis . 
And a little above is the chapel of Moses , and the rock where Moses fled to for dread when he saw our Lord face to face . 
And there beside is the place where our Lord took to Moses the Ten Commandments of the Law . 
And there is the cave under the rock where Moses dwelt , when he fasted forty days and forty nights . 
But he died in the Land of Promission , and no man knoweth where he was buried . 
And from that mountain men pass a great valley for to go to another mountain , where Saint Catherine was buried of the angels of the Lord . 
And in that valley is a church of forty martyrs , and there sing the monks of the abbey , often time and that valley is right cold . 
There was wont to be a chapel , but it was cast down , and yet lie the stones there . 
But it is a great way from that one to that other , and a great deep valley between them . 
CHAPTER IX OF THE DESERT BETWEEN THE CHURCH OF SAINT CATHERINE AND JERUSALEM . 
OF THE DRY TREE AND HOW ROSES CAME FIRST INTO THE WORLD NOW , after that men have visited those holy places , then will they turn toward Jerusalem . 
And then will they take leave of the monks , and recommend themselves to their prayers . 
And then they give the pilgrims of their victuals for to pass with the deserts toward Syria . 
And those deserts dure well a thirteen journeys . 
In that desert dwell many of Arabians , that men clepe Bedouins and Ascopards , and they be folk full of all evil conditions . 
And they roast their flesh and their fish upon the hot stones against the sun . 
And they be strong men and well fighting and there so is much multitude of that folk , that they be without number . 
And they ne reck of nothing , ne do not but chase after beasts to eat them . 
And they have often times war with the sultan , and , namely , that time that I was with him . 
, that was wont to be a full fair town and a delectable of Christian men and yet there be some of their churches . 
In that town dwelled Abraham the patriarch , a long time . 
And from thence go men to the city of Hebron , that is the mountance of twelve good mile . 
Hebron was wont to be the principal city of the Philistines , and there dwelled some time the giants . 
In Hebron Joshua , Caleb and their company came first to aspy , how they might win the land of Behest . 
In Hebron reigned first king David seven year and a half and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty three year and a half . 
And men clepe that place , where they lie , Double Spelunk , or Double Cave , or Double Ditch , forasmuch as that one lieth above that other . 
And the Saracens clepe that place in their language , KARICARBA , that is to say , 'The Place of Patriarchs . 
And the Jews clepe that place ARBOTH . 
And right fast by that place is a cave in the rock , where Adam and Eve dwelled when they were put out of Paradise and there got they their children . 
, and from thence was he translated into Paradise of delights , as they say and after that he was driven out of Paradise he was there left . 
And the same day that he was put in Paradise , the same day he was put out , for anon he sinned . 
There beginneth the Vale of Hebron , that dureth nigh to Jerusalem . 
And two mile from Hebron is the grave of Lot , that was Abraham's brother . 
And a little from Hebron is the mount of Mamre , of the which the valley taketh his name . 
And there is a tree of oak , that the Saracens clepe DIRPE , that is of Abraham's time the which men clepe the Dry Tree . 
From Hebron men go to Bethlehem in half a day , for it is but five mile and it is full fair way , by plains and woods full delectable . 
And between the city and the church is the field FLORIDUS , that is to say , the 'field flourished . 
And these were the first rose trees and roses , both white and red , that ever any man saw and thus was this maiden saved by the grace of God . 
And therefore is that field clept the field of God flourished , for it was full of roses . 
And three paces beside is the crib of the ox and the ass . 
Also , under the cloister of the church , by eighteen degrees at the right side , is the charnel of the Innocents , where their bones lie . 
And ye shall understand , that all that dwell in Bethlehem be Christian men . 
And there be fair vines about the city , and great plenty of wine , that the Christian men have do let make . 
In this city of Bethlehem was David the king born and he had sixty wives , and the first wife was called Michal and also he had three hundred lemans . 
And in that way is the tomb of Rachel , that was Joseph's mother , the patriarch and she died anon after that she was delivered of her son Benjamin . 
And there she was buried of Jacob her husband , and he let set twelve great stones on her , in token that she had born twelve children . 
In the same way , half mile from Jerusalem , appeared the star to the three kings . 
In that way also be many churches of Christian men , by the which men go towards the city of Jerusalem . 
And about Jerusalem is the kingdom of Syria . 
And there beside is the land of Palestine , and beside it is Ascalon , and beside that is the land of Maritaine . 
In Jerusalem was wont to be a patriarch and archbishops and bishops about in the country . 
And a two mile from Bethlehem , toward the south , is the Church of St . 
And now have the heathen men held that land in their hands forty year and more but they shall not hold it long , if God will . 
And in the right side of that tabernacle is the sepulchre of our Lord and the tabernacle is eight foot long , and five foot wide , and eleven foot in height . 
In that tabernacle be no windows , but it is all made light with lamps that hang before the sepulchre . 
And the cross was set in a mortise in the same rock . 
And on that rock dropped the wounds of our Lord when he was pined on the cross . 
And that is clept Golgotha . 
And upon that rock made Abraham sacrifice to our Lord . 
And there is an altar and before that altar lie Godefray de Bouillon and Baldwin , and other Christian kings of Jerusalem . 
And ye shall understand , that when our Lord was done upon the cross , he was thirty three year and three months of old . 
And the prophecy of David saith thus QUADRAGINTA ANNIS PROXIMUS FUI GENERATIONI HUIC that is to say , 'Forty year was I neighbour to this kindred . 
And thus should it seem that the prophecies were not true . 
But they be both true for in old time men made a year of ten months , of the which March was the first and December was the last . 
And therefore after counting of ten months of the year , he died in the fortieth year , as the prophet said . 
And after the year of twelve months , he was of age thirty three year and three months . 
Also , within the mount of Calvary , on the right side , is an altar , where the pillar lieth that our Lord Jesu was bounden to when he was scourged . 
And there beside be four pillars of stone , that always drop water and some men say that they weep for our Lord's death . 
And thereby in the wall is the place where the four nails of our Lord were hid for he had two in his hands and two in his feet . 
And that compass , say men , is the midst of the world . 
In the church of Saint Sepulchre was wont to be canons of the order of Saint Augustine , and had a prior , but the patriarch was their sovereign . 
And on these grees went our Lord when he bare the cross on his shoulder . 
And there near , is the place where that our Lord rested him when he was weary for bearing of the cross . 
And toward the east side , without the walls of the city , is the vale of Jehosaphat that toucheth to the walls as though it were a large ditch . 
And above that vale of Jehosaphat , out of the city , is the church of Saint Stephen where he was stoned to death . 
And before the church of Saint Sepulchre , toward the south , at paces , is the great hospital of Saint John , of which the hospitallers had their foundation . 
And within the palace of the sick men of that hospital be pillars of stone . 
And in the walls of the house , without the number above said , there be fifty four pillars that bear up the house . 
And from that hospital to go toward the east is a full fair church , that is clept NOTRE DAME LA GRANDE . 
And then is there another church right nigh , that is clept NOTRE DAME DE LATINE . 
And there were Mary Cleophas and Mary Magdalene , and tore their hair when our Lord was pained in the cross . 
CHAPTER XI OF THE TEMPLE OF OUR LORD . 
OF THE CRUELTY OF KING HEROD . 
OF PROBATICA PISCINA AND OF NATATORIUM SILOE AND from the church of the sepulchre , toward the east , at eight score paces , is TEMPLUM DOMINI . 
It is right a fair house , and it is all round and high , and covered with lead . 
And it is well paved with white marble . 
And the folk of the country do great worship and reverence to his signet or seal , and kneel thereto as lowly as we do to CORPUS DOMINI . 
And ye shall understand , that this is not the temple that Solomon made , for that temple dured not but year . 
For Titus , Vespasian's son , Emperor of Rome , had laid siege about Jerusalem for to discomfit the Jews for they put our Lord to death , without leave of the emperor . 
And after that time , Julian Apostate , that was emperor , gave leave to the Jews to make the temple of Jerusalem , for he hated Christian men . 
And yet he was christened , but he forsook his law , and became a renegade . 
and destroyed all that they had made . 
And after that , Adrian , that was Emperor of Rome , and of the lineage of Troy , made Jerusalem again and the temple in the same manner as Solomon made it . 
And he would not suffer no Jews to dwell there , but only Christian men . 
For although it were so that he was not christened , yet he loved Christian men more than any other nation save his own . 
This emperor let enclose the church of Saint Sepulchre , and walled it within the city that , before , was without the city , long time before . 
And he would have changed the name of Jerusalem , and have clept it Aelia but that name lasted not long . 
Also , ye shall understand , that the Saracens do much reverence to that temple , and they say , that that place is right holy . 
And when they go in they go bare foot , and kneel many times . 
This temple is sixty four cubits of wideness , and as many in length and of height it is six score cubits . 
And it is within , all about , made with pillars of marble . 
And , in that place , cometh no man save only their prelate , that maketh their sacrifice . 
And the folk stand all about , in diverse stages , after they be of dignity or of worship , so that they all may see the sacrifice . 
And in that temple be four entries , and the gates be of cypress , well made and curiously dight and within the east gate our Lord said , 'Here is Jerusalem . 
That ark or hutch with the relics Titus led with him to Rome , when he had discomfited all the Jews . 
And there an angel held Jacob still , and turned his name , and clept him Israel . 
And in that same place David saw the angel that smote the folk with a sword , and put it up bloody in the sheath . 
And in that same rock was Saint Simeon when he received our Lord into the temple . 
And in this rock he set him when the Jews would have stoned him and a star came down and gave him light . 
And upon that rock preached our Lord often time to the people . 
And out that said temple our Lord drove out the buyers and the sellers . 
And upon that rock sat our Lady , and learned her psalter . 
And there our Lord forgave the woman her sins , that was found in avowtry . 
And there was our Lord circumcised . 
And there the angels shewed tidings to Zacharias of the birth of Saint Baptist his son . 
And there offered first Melchisadech bread and wine to our Lord , in token of the sacrament that was to come . 
And therefore , all the purveyance that he had ordained to make the temple with he took it Solomon his son , and he made it . 
And without the gate of that temple is an altar where Jews were in wont to offer doves and turtles . 
And between the temple and that altar was Zacharias slain . 
And upon the pinnacle of that temple was our Lord brought for to be tempted of the enemy , the fiend . 
And on the height of that pinnacle the Jews set Saint James , and cast him down to the earth , that first was Bishop of Jerusalem . 
And at the entry of that temple , toward the west , is the gate that is clept PORTA SPECIOSA . 
And nigh beside that temple , upon the right side , is a church , covered with lead , that is clept Solomon's School . 
And from that temple towards the south , right nigh , is the temple of Solomon , that is right fair and well polished . 
And there beside is our Lady's bed . 
And in that church is a well , in manner of a cistern , that is clept PROBATICA PISCINA , that hath five entries . 
Into that well angels were wont to come from heaven and bathe them within . 
And what man , that first bathed him after the moving of the water , was made whole of what manner of sickness that he had . 
And there beside was Pilate's house . 
And fast by is King Herod's house , that let slay the innocents . 
This Herod was over much cursed and cruel . 
And after he let slay his two sons that he had of that wife . 
And after that he let slay another of his wives , and a son that he had with her . 
And after that he let slay his own mother and he would have slain his brother also , but he died suddenly . 
And after that he did all the harm that he could or might . 
But his sister fulfilled not his will . 
And so was this cursed king never made sorrow for , as he supposed for to have been . 
And ye shall understand , that in that time there were three Herods , of great name and fame for their cruelty . 
Also , furthermore , in the city is the church of Saint Saviour and there is the left arm of John Chrisostome , and the more part of the head of Saint Stephen . 
And on that other side in the street , toward the south as men go to Mount Sion , is a church of Saint James , where he was beheaded . 
And from that church , a six score paces , is the Mount Sion . 
And there is a fair church of our Lady , where she dwelled and there she died . 
And there was wont to be an abbot of canons regulars . 
And from thence was she borne of the apostles unto the vale of Jehosaphat . 
And there is the stone that the angel brought to our Lord from the mount of Sinai , and it is of that colour that the rock is of Saint Catherine . 
And there beside is the gate where through our Lady went , when she was with child , when she went to Bethlehem . 
Also at the entry of the Mount Sion is a chapel . 
And there also is a stone in the wall , beside the gate , of the pillar that our Lord was scourged at . 
And there was Annas's house , that was bishop of the Jews in that time . 
And there was our Lord examined in the night , and scourged and smitten and villainous entreated . 
And that same place Saint Peter forsook our Lord thrice or the cock crew . 
And under that chapel , thirty two degrees , is the place where our Lord washed his disciples' feet , and yet is the vessel where the water was . 
And there beside that same vessel was Saint Stephen buried . 
And there is the altar where our Lady heard the angels sing mass . 
And there made our Lord his pasque with his disciples . 
And there slept Saint John the evangelist upon the breast of our Lord Jesu Christ , and saw sleeping many heavenly privities . 
Mount Sion is within the city , and it is a little higher than the other side of the city and the city is stronger on that side than on that other side . 
For at the foot of the Mount Sion is a fair castle and a strong that the soldan let make . 
In the Mount Sion were buried King David and King Solomon , and many other kings , Jews of Jerusalem . 
And there is the place where the Jews would have cast up the body of our Lady when the apostles bare the body to be buried in the vale of Jehosaphat . 
And there is the place where Saint Peter wept full tenderly after that he had forsaken our Lord . 
And a stone's cast from that chapel is another chapel , where our Lord was judged , for that time was there Caiaphas's house . 
ITEM , between the Mount Sion and the Temple of Solomon is the place where our Lord raised the maiden in her father's house . 
Under the Mount Sion , toward the vale of Jehosaphat , is a well that is clept NATATORIUM SILOE . 
And there was our Lord washed after his baptism and there made our Lord the blind man to see . 
And there was y buried Isaiah the prophet . 
And fast by is yet the tree of elder that Judas hanged himself upon , for despair that he had , when he sold and betrayed our Lord . 
And there nigh was the house of the apostles Philip and Jacob Alphei . 
And in that field be many tombs of Christian men , for there be many pilgrims graven . 
And there be many oratories , chapels and hermitages , where hermits were wont to dwell . 
And toward the east , an hundred paces , is the charnel of the hospital of Saint John , where men were wont to put the bones of dead men . 
Also from Jerusalem , toward the west , is a fair church , where the tree of the cross grew . 
And under the altar of that church is the place where Saint John was born . 
And from that church is a mile to the castle of Emmaus and there also our Lord shewed him to two of his disciples after his resurrection . 
Also on that other side , paces from Jerusalem , is a church , where was wont to be the cave of the lion . 
Also from Jerusalem , two mile , is the Mount Joy , a full fair place and a delicious and there lieth Samuel the prophet in a fair tomb . 
And men clepe it Mount Joy , for it giveth joy to pilgrims' hearts , because that there men see first Jerusalem . 
Also between Jerusalem and the mount of Olivet is the vale of Jehosaphat , under the walls of the city , as I have said before . 
that men yede over on . 
Also in the middle place of the vale of Jehosaphat is the church of our Lady and it is of forty three degrees under the earth unto the sepulchre of our Lady . 
And our Lady was of age , when she died , seventy two year . 
And beside the sepulchre of our Lady is an altar , where our Lord forgave Saint Peter all his sins . 
And from thence , toward the west , under an altar , is a well that cometh out of the river of Paradise . 
And wit well , that that church is full low in the earth , and some is all within the earth . 
But I suppose well , that it was not so founded . 
In that church were wont to be monks black , that had their abbot . 
And beside that church is a chapel , beside the rock that hight Gethsemane . 
And there was our Lord kissed of Judas and there was he taken of the Jews . 
And in the rock within the chapel yet appear the fingers of our Lord's hand , when he put them in the rock , when the Jews would have taken him . 
And from thence , a stone's cast towards the south , is another chapel , where our Lord sweat drops of blood . 
And there , right nigh , is the tomb of King Jehosaphat , of whom the vale beareth the name . 
This Jehosaphat was king of that country , and was converted by an hermit , that was a worthy man and did much good . 
And from thence , a bow draught towards the south , is the church , where Saint James and Zachariah the prophet were buried . 
And above the vale is the mount of Olivet and it is clept so for the plenty of olives that grow there . 
That mount is more high than the city of Jerusalem is and , therefore , may men upon that mount see many of the streets of the city . 
And between that mount and the city is not but the vale of Jehosaphat that is not full large . 
And from that mount styed our Lord Jesu Christ to heaven upon Ascension Day and yet there sheweth the shape of his left foot in the stone . 
And there is a church where was wont to be an abbot and canons regulars . 
And there nigh is a church of Saint Mary Egyptian , and there she lieth in a tomb . 
And in coming down from the mount of Olivet , toward the east , is a castle that is clept Bethany . 
And in that house our Lord forgave Mary Magdalene her sins there she washed his feet with her tears , and wiped them with her hair . 
And there served Saint Martha our Lord . 
There our Lord raised Lazarus from death to life , that was dead four days and stank , that was brother to Mary Magdalene and to Martha . 
And there dwelt also Mary Cleophas . 
That castle is well a mile long from Jerusalem . 
Also in coming down from the mount of Olivet is the place where our Lord wept upon Jerusalem . 
And there beside is the place where our Lady appeared to Saint Thomas the apostle after her assumption , and gave him her girdle . 
And right nigh is the stone where our Lord often time sat upon when he preached and upon that same he shall sit at the day of doom , right as himself said . 
Also after the mount of Olivet is the mount of Galilee . 
There assembled the apostles when Mary Magdalene came and told them of Christ's uprising . 
And there , between the Mount Olivet and the Mount Galilee , is a church , where the angel said to our Lady of her death . 
Also from Bethany to Jericho was sometime a little city , but it is now all destroyed , and now is there but a little village . 
That city took Joshua by miracle of God and commandment of the angel , and destroyed it , and cursed it and all them that bigged it again . 
Of that city was Zaccheus the dwarf that clomb up into the sycamore tree for to see our Lord , because he was so little he might not see him for the people . 
And after , Salomon , Naasson's son , wedded her , and from that time was she a worthy woman , and served God well . 
Also from Bethany go men to flom Jordan by a mountain and through desert . 
And it is nigh a day journey from Bethany , toward the east , to a great hill , where our Lord fasted forty days . 
Upon that hill dwelt Abraham a great while , and therefore men clepe it Abraham's Garden . 
And at the foot of this hill , toward the plain , is a great well , that entereth into from Jordan . 
From that hill to Jericho , that I spake of before , is but a mile in going toward flom Jordan . 
Also as men go to Jericho sat the blind man crying , JESU , FILI DAVID , MISERERE MEI that is to say , 'Jesu , David's Son , have mercy on me . 
And anon he had his sight . 
Also , two mile from Jericho , is flome Jordan . 
And , an half mile more nigh , is a fair church of Saint John the Baptist , where he baptised our Lord . 
And there beside is the house of Jeremiah the prophet . 
CHAPTER XII OF THE DEAD SEA AND OF THE FLOME JORDAN . 
OF THE HEAD OF SAINT JOHN THE BAPTIST AND OF THE USAGES OF THE SAMARITANS AND from Jericho , a three mile , is the Dead Sea . 
About that sea groweth much alum and of alkatran . 
Between Jericho and that sea is the land of Engeddi . 
And there was wont to grow the balm but men make draw the branches thereof and bear them to be grafted at Babylon and yet men clepe them vines of Geddi . 
At a coast of that sea , as men go from Arabia , is the mount of the Moabites , where there is a cave , that men clepe Karua . 
Upon that hill led Balak , the son of Beor , Balaam the priest for to curse the people of Israel . 
That Dead Sea parteth the land of Ind and of Arabia , and that sea lasteth from Soara unto Arabia . 
The water of that sea is full bitter and salt , and , if the earth were made moist and wet with that water , it would never bear fruit . 
And the earth and the land changeth often his colour . 
And it casteth out of the water a thing that men clepe asphalt , also great pieces , as the greatness of an horse , every day and on all sides . 
And from Jerusalem to that sea is furlongs . 
And neither man , ne beast , ne nothing that beareth life in him ne may not die in that sea . 
And no man may drink of the water for bitterness . 
And if a man cast iron therein , it will float above . 
And if men cast a feather therein , it will sink to the bottom , and these be things against kind . 
And also , the cities there were lost because of sin . 
Some men clepe that sea the lake Dalfetidee some , the flome of Devils and some the flome that is ever stinking . 
In that city Lot dwelt a little while and there was he made drunk of his daughters , and lay with them , and engendered of them Moab and Ammon . 
And the hill above Zoar men cleped it then Edom and after men cleped it Seir , and after Idumea . 
This Lot was Haran's son , that was brother to Abraham and Sarah , Abraham's wife , and Milcah , Nahor's wife , were sisters to the said Lot . 
And the same Sarah was of eld four score and ten year when Isaac her son was gotten on her . 
And Abraham had another son Ishmael that he gat upon Hagar his chamberer . 
And a mile from flom Jordan is the river of Jabbok , the which Jacob passed over when he came from Mesopotamia . 
And it passeth by a lake that is clept Maron . 
And there becometh the water great and large . 
In that plain is the tomb of Job . 
And in that flom Jordan above said was our Lord baptised of Saint John , and the voice of God the Father was heard saying HIC EST FILIUS MEUS DILECTUS , ETC . 
Also in that flome Jordan Naaman of Syria bathed him , that was full rich , but he was mesell and there anon he took his health . 
About the flome Jordan be many churches where that many Christian men dwelled . 
And nigh thereto is the city of Ai that Joshua assailed and took . 
Also beyond the flome Jordan is the vale of Mamre , and that is a full fair vale . 
And under it there is a town that hight Sobach , and there , all about , dwell Christian men , under tribute . 
From thence go men to Nazareth , of the which our Lord beareth the surname . 
There was born this prophet and , after his death , he was buried at Mount Joy , as I have said you before . 
And then go men to Shiloh , where the Ark of God with the relics were kept long time under Eli the prophet . 
There made the people of Hebron sacrifice to our Lord , and they yielded up their vows . 
And there spake God first to Samuel , and shewed him the mutation of Order of Priesthood , and the mystery of the Sacrament . 
And right nigh , on the left side , is Gibeon and Ramah and Benjamin , of the which holy writ speaketh of . 
And after men go to Sichem , some time clept Sichar and that is in the province of Samaritans . 
And there is a full fair vale and a fructuous and there is a fair city and a good that men clepe Neople . 
And from thence is a journey to Jerusalem . 
And there is the well , where our Lord spake to the woman of Samaritan . 
And there was wont to be a church , but it is beaten down . 
Beside that well King Rehoboam let make two calves of gold and made them to be worshipped , and put that one at Dan and that other at Bethel . 
And a mile from Sichar is the city of Luz and in that city dwelt Abraham a certain time . 
Sichem is a ten mile from Jerusalem , and it is clept Neople that is for to say , the New City . 
In that city was Dinah , Jacob's daughter , ravished , for whom her brethren slew many persons and did many harms to the city . 
And there beside is the hill of Gerizim , where the Samaritans make their sacrifice in that hill would Abraham have sacrificed his son Isaac . 
From thence go men to Samaria that men clepe now Sebast and that is the chief city of that country , and it sits between the hill of Aygnes as Jerusalem doth . 
In that city was the sittings of the twelve tribes of Israel but the city is not now so great as it was wont to be . 
and let winnow the ashes in the wind . 
In that place was wont to be a fair church and many other there were but they be all beaten down . 
There was wont to be the head of Saint John Baptist , enclosed in the wall . 
But the Emperor Theodosius let draw it out , and found it wrapped in a little cloth , all bloody and so he let it to be born to Constantinople . 
And some men say that the head of Saint John is at Amiens in Picardy and other men say that it is the head of Saint John the Bishop . 
I wot never , but God knoweth but in what wise that men worship it , the blessed Saint John holds him a paid . 
From this city of Sebast unto Jerusalem is twelve mile . 
And they say that they be the right sons of God . 
And among all other folk , they say that they be best beloved of God , and that to them belongeth the heritage that God behight to his beloved children . 
And they have also diverse clothing and shape to look on than other folk have for they wrap their heads in red linen cloth , in difference from others . 
And the Saracens wrap their heads in white linen cloth and the Christian men , that dwell in the country , wrap them in blue of Ind and the Jews in yellow cloth . 
In that country dwell many of the Jews , paying tribute as Christian men do . 
OF THE AGE OF OUR LADY . 
OF THE DAY OF DOOM . 
And Galilee is one of the provinces of the Holy Land , and in that province is the city of Nain and Capernaum , and Chorazin and Bethsaida . 
In this Bethsaida was Saint Peter and Saint Andrew born . 
And thence , a four mile , is Chorazin . 
In Chorazin shall Antichrist be born , as some men say . 
And all these towns be in the land of Galilee . 
And also the Cana of Galilee is four mile from Nazareth of that city was Simon Chananeus and his wife Canee , of the which the holy evangelist speaketh of . 
There did our Lord the first miracle at the wedding , when he turned water into wine . 
And in the end of Galilee , at the hills , was the Ark of God taken and on that other side is the Mount Endor or Hermon . 
Fast by that city is the field Megiddo , in the which the King Joram was slain of the King of Samaria and after was translated and buried in the Mount Sion . 
that is to say , 'Ye hills of Gilboa , neither dew ne rain come upon you . 
And it is not walled . 
And it sits in a little valley , and there be hills all about . 
There was our Lady born , but she was gotten at Jerusalem . 
And because that our Lady was born at Nazareth , therefore bare our Lord his surname of that town . 
There took Joseph our Lady to wife , when she was fourteen year of age . 
And the Saracens keep that place full dearly , for the profit that they have thereof . 
And they be full wicked Saracens and cruel , and more despiteful than in any other place , and have destroyed all the churches . 
There nigh is Gabriel's Well , where our Lord was wont to bathe him , when he was young , and from that well bare he water often time to his mother . 
And in that well she washed often time the clouts of her Son Jesu Christ . 
And from Jerusalem unto thither is three journeys . 
At Nazareth was our Lord nourished . 
And two mile from Nazareth is the city of Sephor , by the way that goeth from Nazareth to Akon . 
And an half mile from Nazareth is the Leap of our Lord . 
And then say men two verses of the Psalter three sithes IRRUAT SUPER EOS FORMIDO PAVOR , IN MAGNITUDINE BRACHII TUI , DOMINE . 
FIANT IMMOBILES , QUASI LAPIS , DONEC PERTRANSEAT POPULUS TUUS , DOMINE DONEC PERTRANSEAT POPULUS TUUS ISTE , QUEM POSSEDISTI and then may men pass without peril . 
And ye shall understand , that our Lady had child when she was fifteen year old . 
And she was conversant with her son thirty three year and three months . 
And after the passion of our Lord she lived twenty four year . 
Also from Nazareth men go to the Mount Tabor and that is a four mile . 
And it is a full fair hill and well high , where was wont to be a town and many churches but they be all destroyed . 
But yet there is a place that men clepe the school of God , where he was wont to teach his disciples , and told them the privities of heaven . 
And this Melchisedech was both king and priest of Salem that now is clept Jerusalem . 
In that hill Tabor our Lord transfigured him before Saint Peter , Saint John and Saint Jame and there they saw , ghostly , Moses and Elias the prophets beside them . 
And there heard they a voice of the Father that say HIC EST FILIUS MEUS DILECTUS , IN QUO MIHI BENE COMPLACUI . 
And our Lord defended them that they should not tell that avision till that he were risen from death to life . 
And the doom shall be on Easter Day , such time as our Lord arose . 
And the doom shall begin , such hour as our Lord descended to hell and despoiled it . 
For at such hour shall he despoil the world and lead his chosen to bliss and the other shall he condemn to perpetual pains . 
And then shall every man have after his desert , either good or evil , but if the mercy of God pass his righteousness . 
Also a mile from Mount Tabor is the Mount Hermon and there was the city of Nain . 
Before the gate of that city raised our Lord the widow's son , that had no more children . 
Also three miles from Nazareth is the Castle Safra , of the which the sons of Zebedee and the sons of Alpheus were . 
Also a seven mile from Nazareth is the Mount Cain , and under that is a well and beside that well Lamech , Noah's father , slew Cain with an arrow . 
And this Lamech was all blind for eld . 
From Safra men go to the sea of Galilee and to the city of Tiberias , that sits upon the same sea . 
And albeit that men clepe it a sea , yet is it neither sea ne arm of the sea . 
The city is not full great , but it hath good baths within him . 
In that sea rowed our Lord often time and there he called to him Saint Peter , Saint Andrew , Saint James and Saint John , the sons of Zebedee . 
And nigh that city of Tiberias is the hill , where our Lord fed persons with five barley loaves and two fishes . 
In that city a man cast a burning dart in wrath after our Lord . 
And the head smote into the earth and waxed green and it growed to a great tree . 
And yet it groweth and the bark thereof is all like coals . 
Also in the head of that sea of Galilee , toward the septentrion is a strong castle and an high that hight Saphor . 
And fast beside it is Capernaum . 
Within the Land of Promission is not so strong a castle . 
And there is a good town beneath that is clept also Saphor . 
In that castle Saint Anne our Lady's mother was born . 
And there beneath , was Centurio's house . 
That country is clept the Galilee of Folk that were taken to tribute of Zebulon and Napthali . 
And wit ye well , that the Land of Promission is in Syria . 
For the realm of Syria dureth from the deserts of Arabia unto Cilicia , and that is Armenia the great that is to say , from the south to the north . 
And , from the east to the west , it dureth from the great deserts of Arabia unto the West Sea . 
But in that realm of Syria is the kingdom of Judea and many other provinces , as Palestine , Galilee , Little Cilicia , and many other . 
And the culvers be so taught , that they flee with those letters to the very place that men would send them to . 
For the culvers be nourished in those places where they be sent to , and they send them thus , for to bear their letters . 
And the culvers return again whereas they be nourished and so they do commonly . 
And ye shall understand that amongst the Saracens , one part and other , dwell many Christian men of many manners and diverse names . 
And all be baptized and have diverse laws and diverse customs . 
But all believe in God the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost but always fail they in some articles of our faith . 
Some of these be clept Jacobites , for Saint James converted them and Saint John baptized them . 
They say that a man shall make his confession only to God , and not to a man for only to him should man yield him guilty of all that he hath misdone . 
Ne God ordained not , ne never devised , ne the prophet neither , that a man should shrive him to another , but only to God . 
For they know all the Bible and the Psalter . 
And therefore allege they so the letter . 
But they allege not the authorities thus in Latin , but in their language full apertly , and say well , that David and other prophets say it . 
Natheles , Saint Augustine and Saint Gregory say thus Augustinus QUI SCELERA SUA COGITAT , CONVERSUS FUERIT , VENIAM SIBI CREDAT . 
Gregorius DOMINUS POTIUS MENTEM QUAM VERBA RESPICIT . 
And Saint Hilary saith LONGORUM TEMPORUM CRIMINA , IN ICTU OCULI PEREUNT , SI CORDIS NATA FUERIT COMPUNCTIO . 
And for such authorities they say , that only to God shall a man knowledge his defaults , yielding himself guilty and crying him mercy , and behoting to him to amend himself . 
But sooth it is , that this confession was first and kindly . 
There be other , that be clept Syrians and they hold the belief amongst us , and of them of Greece . 
And they use all beards , as men of Greece do . 
And they make the sacrament of therf bread . 
And in their language they use letters of Saracens . 
But after the mystery of Holy Church they use letters of Greece . 
And they make their confession , right as the Jacobites do . 
There be other , that men clepe Georgians , that Saint George converted and him they worship more than any other saint , and to him they cry for help . 
And they came out of the realm of Georgia . 
These folk use crowns shaven . 
The clerks have round crowns , and the lewd men have crowns all square . 
And they hold Christian law , as do they of Greece of whom I have spoken of before . 
Other there be that men clepe Christian men of Girding , for they be all girt above . 
And there be other that men clept Nestorians . 
And some Arians , some Nubians , some of Greece , some of Ind , and some of Prester John's Land . 
And all these have many articles of our faith , and to other they be variant . 
And of their variance were too long to tell , and so I will leave , as for the time , without more speaking of them . 
CHAPTER XIV OF THE CITY OF DAMASCUS . 
But upon camels , mules , horses , dromedaries and other beasts , men carry their merchandise thither . 
And thither come the merchants with merchandise by sea from India , Persia , Chaldea , Armenia , and of many other kingdoms . 
This city founded Eliezer Damascus , that was yeoman and dispenser of Abraham before that Isaac was born . 
For he thought for to have been Abraham's heir , and he named the town after his surname Damascus . 
And in that place , where Damascus was founded , Cain slew Abel his brother . 
And beside Damascus is the Mount Seir . 
In that city of Damascus there is great plenty of wells . 
And within the city and without be many fair gardens and of diverse fruits . 
None other city is not like in comparison to it of fair gardens , and of fair disports . 
The city is great and full of people , and well walled with double walls . 
And there be many physicians . 
And Saint Paul himself was there a physician for to keep men's bodies in health , before he was converted . 
And after that he was physician of souls . 
And Saint Luke the evangelist was disciple of Saint Paul for to learn physic , and many other for Saint Paul held then school of physic . 
And near beside Damascus was he converted . 
And fast beside Damascus is the castle of Arkes that is both fair and strong . 
From Damascus men come again by our Lady of Sardenak , that is a five mile on this half Damascus . 
And there within be monks and nuns Christian . 
And there is a vault under the church , where that Christian men dwell also . 
And they have many good vines . 
Thereof they give to pilgrims , for it heals of many sicknesses and men say that , if it be kept well seven year , afterwards it turns into flesh and blood . 
From Sardenak men come through the vale of Bochar , the which is a fair vale and a plenteous of all manner of fruit and it is amongst hills . 
And there are therein fair rivers and great meadows and noble pasture for beasts . 
Their hills are right fruitful , and there are many fair wells and cedars and cypresses , and many other trees of divers kinds . 
There are also many good towns toward the head of their hills , full of folk . 
Between the foresaid hills also is another water that on nights freezes hard and on days is no frost seen thereon . 
And , as men come again from those hills , is a hill higher than any of the other , and they call it there the High Hill . 
There is a great city and a fair , the which is called Tripoli , in the which are many good Christian men , yemand the same rites and customs that we use . 
At the one side of Beyrout sixteen mile , to come hitherward , is the city of Sydon . 
Now will I tell you the rightest way and the shortest to Jerusalem . 
And therefore I will shew how men may pass tittest and in shortest time make their pilgrimage to Jerusalem . 
A man that comes from the lands of the west , he goes through France , Burgoyne , and Lumbardy . 
And so to Venice or Genoa , or some other haven , and ships there and wends by sea to the isle of Greff , the which pertains to the Genoans . 
From the Port Jaffa men go to the city of Rames , the which is but a little thence and it is a fair city and a good and mickle folk therein . 
And without that city toward the south is a kirk of our Lady , where our Lord shewed him to her in three clouds , the which betokened the Trinity . 
From thence men go to the castle of Emmaus , and so to the Mount Joy there may pilgrims first see Jerusalem . 
At Mount Joy lies Samuel the prophet . 
From thence men go to Jerusalem . 
Beside their ways is the city of Ramatha and the Mount Modyn and thereof was Matathias , Judas Machabeus father , and there are the graves of the Machabees . 
Beyond Ramatha is the town of Tekoa , whereof Amos the prophet was and there is his grave . 
I have told you before of the holy places that are at Jerusalem and about it , and therefore I will speak no more of them at this time . 
And he shall pass by sea in to Greece to the Port Mirrok , or to Valoun or to Duras , or some other haven of that country . 
And from thence he shall go by land to Constantinople , and he shall pass the water that is called Brace Saint George , the which is one arm of the sea . 
And he shall go though Turkey to the port of Chiutok and to the city of Nicaea , which is but seven miles thence . 
And there abouts are many good hills and fair , and many fair woods and great plenty of wild beasts for to hunt at . 
And he that will go another way , he shall go by the plains of Romany coasting the Roman Sea . 
On that coast is a fair castle that men call Florach , and it is right a strong place . 
And uppermore amongst the mountains is a fair city , that is called Tarsus , and the city of Longemaath , and the city of Assere , and the city of Marmistre . 
And beside the city of Damascus is another great river that comes from the hills of Liban , which men call Abbana . 
At the passing of this river Saint Eustace , that some time was called Placidas , lost his wife and his two children . 
This river runs through the plain of Archades , and so to the Red Sea . 
From thence men go to the city of Phenice , where are hot wells and hot baths . 
And then men go to the city of Ferne and between Phenice and Ferne are ten mile . 
And there are many fair woods . 
And then men come to Antioch , which is ten mile thence . 
And it is a fair city and well walled about with many fair towers and it is a great city , but it was some time greater than it is now . 
For it was some time two mile on length and on breadth other half mile . 
This is the chief city of the kingdom of Syria . 
And ten mile from this city is the port of Saint Symeon and there goes the water of Farphar into the sea . 
From Antioch men go to a city that is called Lacuth , and then to Gebel , and then to Tortouse . 
And there near is the land of Channel and there is a strong castle that is called Maubek . 
From Tortouse pass men to Tripoli by sea , or else by land through the straits of mountains and fells . 
And there is a city that is called Gibilet . 
From Tripoli go men to Acres and from thence are two ways to Jerusalem , the one on the left half and the other on the right half . 
By the left way men go by Damascus and by the flum Jordan . 
By the right way men go by Maryn and by the land of Flagramy and near the mountains into the city of Cayphas , that some men call the castle of Pilgrims . 
Now have I told you some ways by land and by water that men may go by to the Holy Land after the countries that they come from . 
Nevertheless they come all to one end . 
He that shall go that way , he shall go through Almayne and Prussia and so to Tartary . 
This Tartary is holden of the great Caan of Cathay , of whom I think to speak afterward . 
This is a full ill land and sandy and little fruit bearing . 
For there grows no corn , ne wine , ne beans , ne peas , ne none other fruit convenable to man for to live with . 
But there are beasts in great plenty and therefore they eat but flesh without bread and sup the broth and they drink milk of all manner of beasts . 
They eat hounds , cats , ratons , and all other wild beasts . 
And they have no wood , or else little and therefore they warm and seethe their meat with horse dung and cow dung and of other beasts , dried against the sun . 
And princes and other eat not but once in the day , and that but little . 
And they be right foul folk and of evil kind . 
And in summer , by all the countries , fall many tempests and many hideous thunders and leits and slay much people and beasts also full often time . 
And suddenly is there passing heat , and suddenly also passing cold and it is the foulest country and the most cursed and the poorest that men know . 
And their prince , that governeth that country , that they clepe Batho , dwelleth at the city of Orda . 
And truly no good man should not dwell in that country , for the land and the country is not worthy hounds to dwell in . 
It were a good country to sow in thistle and briars and broom and thorns and briars and for no other thing is it not good . 
Natheles , there is good land in some place , but it is pure little , as men say . 
I have not been in that country , nor by those ways . 
But I went never by that way to Jerusalem , wherefore I may not well tell you the manner . 
For if the snow ne were not , men might not go upon the ice , ne horse ne car neither . 
And it is well a three journeys of such way to pass from Prussia to the land of Saracens habitable . 
And it behoveth to the Christian men , that shall war against them every year , to bear their victuals with them for they shall find there no good . 
And then must they let carry their victual upon the ice with cars that have no wheels , that they clepe sleighs . 
And as long as their victuals last they may abide there , but no longer for there shall they find no wight that will sell them any victual or anything . 
And when the spies see any Christian men come upon them , they run to the towns , and cry with a loud voice KERRA , KERRA , KERRA . 
And then anon they arm them and assemble them together . 
And ye shall understand that it freezeth more strongly in those countries than on this half . 
And therefore hath every man stews in his house , and in those stews they eat and do their occupations all that they may . 
For that is at the north parts that men clepe the Septentrional where it is all only cold . 
For the sun is but little or none toward those countries . 
And therefore in the Septentrion , that is very north , is the land so cold , that no man may dwell there . 
CHAPTER XV OF THE CUSTOMS OF SARACENS , AND OF THEIR LAW . 
And some men clepe that book MESHAF . 
And some men clepe it HARME , after the diverse languages of the country . 
The which book Mohammet took them . 
Also they believe and speak gladly of the Virgin Mary and of the Incarnation . 
And they say also , that when the angel shewed the Incarnation of Christ unto Mary , she was young and had great dread . 
And therefore Mary dreaded lest it had been Taknia , that came for to deceive the maidens . 
And therefore she conjured the angel , that he should tell her if it were he or no . 
And the angel answered and said that she should have no dread of him , for he was very messenger of Jesu Christ . 
And in other many places saith their ALKARON , that Jesu Christ spake as soon as he was born . 
And that book saith also that Jesu was sent from God Almighty for to be mirror and example and token to all men . 
And the ALKARON saith also of the day of doom how God shall come to doom all manner of folk . 
And the good he shall draw on his side and put them into bliss , and the wicked he shall condemn to the pains of hell . 
They fast an whole month in the year and eat nought but by night . 
And they keep them from their wives all that month . 
But the sick men be not constrained to that fast . 
Also this book speaketh of Jews and saith that they be cursed for they would not believe that Jesu Christ was come of God . 
But he transfigured his likeness into Judas Iscariot , and him crucified the Jews , and weened that it had been Jesus . 
But Jesus styed to heavens all quick . 
And therefore they say , that the Christian men err and have no good knowledge of this , and that they believe folily and falsely that Jesu Christ was crucified . 
And in this article they say that we fail and that the great righteousness of God might not suffer so great a wrong and in this faileth their faith . 
And without him is nothing made . 
And we believe of the day of doom , and that every man shall have his merit , after he hath deserved . 
And , we believe it for sooth , all that God hath said by the mouths of his prophets . 
But they say well , that God hath speech , and else were he dumb . 
And God hath also a spirit they know well , for else they say , he were not alive . 
And they say that whoso knew not the word of God he should not know God . 
And they say , that of these four , Jesu was the most worthy and the most excellent and the most great . 
For they have the gospels and the prophecies and the Bible written in their language wherefore they ken much of holy writ , but they understand it not but after the letter . 
And so do the Jews , for they understand not the letter ghostly , but bodily and therefore be they reproved of the wise , that ghostly understand it . 
And therefore saith Saint Paul LITERA OCCIDIT SPIRITUS AUTEM VIVIFICAT . 
And , therefore , I shall tell you what the soldan told me upon a day in his chamber . 
He let void out of his chamber all manner of men , lords and others , for he would speak with me in counsel . 
And there he asked me how the Christian men governed them in our country . 
And also the Christian men enforce themselves in all manners that they may , for to fight and for to deceive that one that other . 
And they be so covetous , that , for a little silver , they sell their daughters , their sisters and their own wives to put them to lechery . 
And one withdraweth the wife of another , and none of them holdeth faith to another but they defoul their law that Jesu Christ betook them to keep for their salvation . 
And thus , for their sins , have they lost all this land that we hold . 
For , for their sins , their God hath taken them into our hands , not only by strength of ourself , but for their sins . 
For we know well , in very sooth , that when ye serve God , God will help you and when he is with you , no man may be against you . 
we have no dread of them in no kind , for their God will not help them in no wise . 
And then I asked him , how he knew the state of Christian men . 
And ye shall understand , that Mahomet was born in Arabia , that was first a poor knave that kept camels , that went with merchants for merchandise . 
And so befell , that he went with the merchants into Egypt and they were then Christian in those parts . 
And at the deserts of Arabia , he went into a chapel where a hermit dwelt . 
And this was the first miracle , the Saracens say , that Mahomet did in his youth . 
After began he for to wax wise and rich . 
And he was a great astronomer . 
And Mahomet fell often in the great sickness that men call the falling evil wherefore the lady was full sorry that ever she took him to husband . 
This Mahomet reigned in Arabia , the year of our Lord Jesu Christ , and was of the generation of Ishmael that was Abraham's son , that he gat upon Hagar his chamberer . 
And therefore there be Saracens that be clept Ishmaelites and some Hagarenes , of Hagar . 
And the other properly be clept Saracens , of Sarah . 
And some be clept Moabites and some Ammonites , for the two sons of Lot , Moab and Ammon , that he begat on his daughters that were afterward great earthly princes . 
And so often went Mahomet to this hermit , that all his men were wroth for he would gladly hear this hermit preach and make his men wake all night . 
And therefore his men thought to put the hermit to death . 
And so it befell upon a night , that Mahomet was drunken of good wine , and he fell on sleep . 
And his men took Mahomet's sword out of his sheath , whiles he slept , and therewith they slew this hermit , and put his sword all bloody in his sheath again . 
And at morrow , when he found the hermit dead , he was full sorry and wroth , and would have done his men to death . 
But they all , with one accord , said that he himself had slain him , when he was drunken , and shewed him his sword all bloody . 
And he trowed that they had said sooth . 
And then he cursed the wine and all those that drink it . 
And therefore Saracens that be devout drink never no wine . 
But some drink it privily for if they drunk it openly , they should be reproved . 
Also it befalleth some time , that Christian men become Saracens , either for poverty or for simpleness , or else for their own wickedness . 
And these be the names of their a . 
Now shall ye know the figures . 
and that is character which cannot be reproduced and character which cannot be reproduced , which be clept thorn and gh . 
CHAPTER XVI OF THE LANDS OF ALBANIA AND OF LIBIA . 
For in those countries beyond be many diverse countries and many great kingdoms , that be departed by the four floods that come from paradise terrestrial . 
And toward the sea Ocean in Ind is the kingdom of Scythia , that is all closed with hills . 
And then after is Hircania , Bactria , Hiberia and many other kingdoms . 
that beginneth at the sea of Spain from thence where the pillars of Hercules be , and endureth unto anent Egypt and toward Ethiopia . 
In that country of Lybia is the sea more high than the land , and it seemeth that it would cover the earth , and natheles yet it passeth not his marks . 
And men see in that country a mountain to the which no man cometh . 
And many other lands there be that it were too long to tell or to number . 
But of some parts I shall speak more plainly hereafter . 
And then pass men the sea and arrive at Trebizond that is a good city and it was wont to be the haven of Pontus . 
There is the haven of Persians and of Medians and of the marches there beyond . 
In that city lieth Saint Athanasius that was bishop of Alexandria , that made the psalm QUICUNQUE VULT . 
This Athanasius was a great doctor of divinity . 
And , because that he preached and spake so deeply of divinity and of the Godhead , he was accused to the Pope of Rome that he was an heretic . 
Wherefore the Pope sent after him and put him in prison . 
But he would never go to his bishopric again , because that they accused him of heresy . 
And from thence men go through Little Armenia . 
And one time befell , that a King of Armenia , that was a worthy knight and doughty man , and a noble princes watched that hawk some time . 
And at the end of seven days and seven nights the lady came to him and bade him wish , for he had well deserved it . 
And the king said that he ne would ask none other thing . 
And the lady answered Sith that I may not withdraw you from your lewd corage , I shall give you without wishing , and to all them that shall come of you . 
Also the son of a poor man watched that hawk and wished that he might chieve well , and to be happy to merchandise . 
And the lady granted him . 
And he became the most rich and the most famous merchant that might be on sea or on earth . 
And he became so rich that he knew not the thousand part of that he had . 
And he was wiser in wishing than was the king . 
Also a knight of the Temple watched there , and wished a purse evermore full of gold . 
And the lady granted him . 
But she said him that he had asked the destruction of their order for the trust and the affiance of that purse , and for the great pride that they should have . 
And therefore look he keep him well , that shall wake . 
For if he sleep he is lost , that never man shall see him more . 
This is not the right way for to go to the parts that I have named before , but for to see the marvel that I have spoken of . 
There about groweth no wine nor fruit , but little or else none . 
In this land is the earth more high than in any other , and that maketh great cold . 
And so pass men by this Armenia and enter the sea of Persia . 
From that city of Erzeroum go men to an hill that is clept Sabissocolle . 
And there beside is another hill that men clepe Ararat , but the Jews clepe it Taneez , where Noah's ship rested , and yet is upon that mountain . 
And men may see it afar in clear weather . 
And that mountain is well a seven mile high . 
And some men say that they have seen and touched the ship , and put their fingers in the parts where the fiend went out , when that Noah said , BENEDICITE . 
But they that say such words , say their will . 
For a man may not go up the mountain , for great plenty of snow that is always on that mountain , neither summer nor winter . 
And beside is the city of Dain that Noah founded . 
And fast by is the city of Any in the which were wont to be a thousand churches . 
But upon that mountain to go up , this monk had great desire . 
And so upon a day , he went up . 
And when he was upward the three part of the mountain he was so weary that he might no further , and so he rested him , and fell asleep . 
And when he awoke he found himself lying at the foot of the mountain . 
And then he prayed devoutly to God that he would vouchsafe to suffer him go up . 
And an angel came to him , and said that he should go up . 
And sith that time never none . 
Wherefore men should not believe such words . 
And men say that the emperor taketh more good in that city for custom of merchandise than doth the richest Christian king of all his realm that liveth . 
For the toll and the custom of his merchants is without estimation to be numbered . 
Beside that city is a hill of salt , and of that salt every man taketh what he will for to salt with , to his need . 
There dwell many Christian men under tribute of Saracens . 
And there dwelleth the Emperor of Persia in summer for the country is cold enough . 
And there be good rivers bearing ships . 
This is the city where the three kings met together when they went to seek our Lord in Bethlehem to worship him and to present him with gold , incense , and myrrh . 
And it is from that city to Bethlehem fifty three journeys . 
From that city men go to another city that is clept Gethe , that is a journey from the sea that men clepe the Gravelly Sea . 
That is the best city that the Emperor of Persia hath in all his land . 
And they clepe flesh there Dabago and the wine Vapa . 
And the Paynims say that no Christian man may not long dwell ne endure with the life in that city , but die within short time and no man knoweth not the cause . 
The walls shew yet , but it is not all inhabited . 
From Cornaa go men by many lands and many cities and towns unto the land of Job . 
And there endeth the land of the Emperor of Persia . 
And if ye will know the letters of Persians and what names they have , they be such as I last devised you , but not in sounding of their words . 
CHAPTER XVII OF THE LAND OF JOB AND OF HIS AGE . 
OF THE ARRAY OF MEN OF CHALDEA . 
OF THE LAND WHERE WOMEN DWELL WITHOUT COMPANY OF MEN . 
And men clepe that land the Land of Susiana . 
In that land is the city of Theman . 
Job was a paynim , and he was Aram of Gosre , his son , and held that land as prince of that country . 
And he was so rich that he knew not the hundred part of his goods . 
And although he were a paynim , nevertheless he served well God after his law . 
And our Lord took his service to his pleasane . 
And when he fell in poverty he was seventy eight year of age . 
And after , when God had proved his patience and that it was so great , he brought him again to riches and to higher estate than he was before . 
And after that he was King of Idumea after King Esau , and when he was king he was clept Jobab . 
And in that kingdom he lived after year . 
And so he was of age , when he died , year . 
In that land of Job there ne is no default of no thing that is needful to man's body . 
There be hills , where men get great plenty of manna in greater abundance than in any other country . 
This manna is clept bread of angels . 
And it is a white thing that is full sweet and right delicious , and more sweet than honey or sugar . 
And it cometh of the dew of heaven that falleth upon the herbs in that country . 
And it congealeth and becometh all white and sweet . 
And men put it in medicines for rich men to make the womb lax , and to purge evil blood . 
For it cleanseth the blood and putteth out melancholy . 
This land of Job marcheth to the kingdom of Chaldea . 
This land of Chaldea is full great . 
And the language of that country is more great in sounding than it is in other parts of the sea . 
Men pass to go beyond by the Tower of Babylon the Great , of the which I have told you before , where that all the languages were first changed . 
And that is a four journeys from Chaldea . 
In that realm be fair men , and they go full nobly arrayed in clothes of gold , orfrayed and apparelled with great pearls and precious stone's full nobly . 
And the women be right foul and evil arrayed . 
And they be black women foul and hideous , and truly as foul as they be , as evil they be . 
In that kingdom of Chaldea , in a city that is clept Ur , dwelled Terah , Abraham's father . 
And there was Abraham born . 
And that was in that time that Ninus was king of Babylon , of Arabia and of Egypt . 
This Ninus made the city of Nineveh , the which that Noah had begun before . 
And because that Ninus performed it , he cleped it Nineveh after his own name . 
There lieth Tobit the prophet , of whom Holy Writ speaketh of . 
And they went to dwell in the land of Canaan in a place that is clept Shechem . 
In that land of Chaldea they have their proper languages and their proper letters , such as ye may see hereafter . 
Beside the land of Chaldea is the land of Amazonia , that is the land of Feminye . 
For sometime there was a king in that country . 
And men married , as in other countries . 
And so befell that the king had war with them of Scythia , the which king hight Colopeus , that was slain in battle , and all the good blood of his realm . 
And when they will have any company of man then they draw them towards the lands marching next to them . 
And then they have loves that use them and they dwell with them an eight days or ten , and then go home again . 
And if it be a female they do away that one pap with an hot iron . 
And if it be a woman of great lineage they do away the left pap that they may the better bear a shield . 
And if it be a woman on foot they do away the right pap , for to shoot with bow turkeys for they shoot well with bows . 
In that land they have a queen that governeth all that land , and all they be obeissant to her . 
And always they make her queen by election that is most worthy in arms for they be right good warriors and orped , and wise , noble and worthy . 
And they go oftentime in solde to help of other kings in their wars , for gold and silver as other soldiers do and they maintain themselves right vigourously . 
This land of Amazonia is an isle , all environed with the sea save in two places , where be two entries . 
And beyond that water dwell the men that be their paramours and their loves , where they go to solace them when they will . 
Beside Amazonia is the land of Tarmegyte that is a great country and a full delectable . 
And from that other coast of Chaldea , toward the south , is Ethiopia , a great country that stretcheth to the end of Egypt . 
In Ethiopia all the rivers and all the waters be trouble , and they be somedeal salt for the great heat that is there . 
And the folk of that country be lightly drunken and have but little appetite to meat . 
And they have commonly the flux of the womb . 
And they live not long . 
In Ethiopia be many diverse folk and Ethiope is clept Cusis . 
In that country be folk that have but one foot , and they go so blyve that it is marvel . 
And the foot is so large , that it shadoweth all the body against the sun , when they will lie and rest them . 
In Ethiopia , when the children be young and little , they be all yellow and , when that they wax of age , that yellowness turneth to be all black . 
In Ethiopia is the city of Saba , and the land of the which one of the three kings that presented our Lord in Bethlehem , was king of . 
From Ethiopia men go into Ind by many diverse countries . 
And men clepe the high Ind , Emlak . 
And upon those rocks of crystal grow the good diamonds that be of trouble colour . 
Yellow crystal draweth colour like oil . 
And they be so hard , that no man may polish them . 
And men clepe them diamonds in that country , and HAMESE in another country . 
Other diamonds men find in Arabia that be not so good , and they be more brown and more tender . 
And other diamonds also men find in the isle of Cyprus , that be yet more tender , and them men may well polish . 
And in the land of Macedonia men find diamonds also . 
But the best and the most precious be in Ind . 
And albeit that men find good diamonds in Ind , yet nevertheless men find them more commonly upon the rocks in the sea and upon hills where the mine of gold is . 
And they grow many together , one little , another great . 
And there be some of the greatness of a bean and some as great as an hazel nut . 
And they be square and pointed of their own kind , both above and beneath , without working of man's hand . 
And they grow together , male and female . 
And they be nourished with the dew of heaven . 
And they engender commonly and bring forth small children , that multiply and grow all the year . 
, I shall tell you , as they beyond the sea say and affirm , of whom all science and all philosophy cometh from . 
He that beareth the diamond upon him , it giveth him hardiness and manhood , and it keepeth the limbs of his body whole . 
It giveth him victory of his enemies in plea and in war , if his cause be rightful . 
And it keepeth him that beareth it in good wit . 
And it keepeth him from strife and riot , from evil swevens from sorrows and from enchantments , and from fantasies and illusions of wicked spirits . 
And if any cursed witch or enchanter would bewitch him that beareth the diamond , all that sorrow and mischance shall turn to himself through virtue of that stone . 
And also no wild beast dare assail the man that beareth it on him . 
Also the diamond should be given freely , without coveting and without buying , and then it is of greater virtue . 
And it maketh a man more strong and more sad against his enemies . 
And it healeth him that is lunatic , and them that the fiend pursueth or travaileth . 
And if venom or poison be brought in presence of the diamond , anon it beginneth to wax moist and for to sweat . 
, that be full hard and full precious . 
Also there is another manner of diamonds that be as white as crystal , but they be a little more trouble . 
And they be good and of great virtue , and all they be square and pointed of their own kind . 
And some be six squared , some four squared , and some three as nature shapeth them . 
And therefore when great lords and knights go to seek worship in arms , they bear gladly the diamond upon them . 
For whoso will buy the diamond it is needful to him that he know them . 
Because that men counterfeit them often of crystal that is yellow and of sapphires of citron colour that is yellow also , and of the sapphire loupe and of many other stones . 
But I tell you these counterfeits be not so hard and also the points will break lightly , and men may easily polish them . 
But some workmen , for malice , will not polish them to that intent , to make men believe that they may not be polished . 
But men may assay them in this manner . 
First shear with them or write with them in sapphires , in crystal or in other precious stones . 
And this is the proof that they beyond the sea make . 
Natheles it befalleth often time , that the good diamond loseth his virtue by sin , and for incontinence of him that beareth it . 
And then it is needful to make it to recover his virtue again , or else it is of little value . 
CHAPTER XVIII OF THE CUSTOMS OF ISLES ABOUT IND . 
OF THE DIFFERENCE BETWIXT IDOLS AND SIMULACRES . 
OF THREE MANNER GROWING OF PEPPER UPON ONE TREE . 
OF THE WELL THAT CHANGETH HIS ODOUR EVERY HOUR OF THE DAY AND THAT IS MARVEL IN Ind be full many diverse countries . 
And it is clept Ind , for a flom that runneth throughout the country that is clept Ind . 
In that flom men find eels of thirty foot long and more . 
And the folk that dwell nigh that water be of evil colour , green and yellow . 
In Ind and about Ind be more than isles good and great that men dwell in , without those that he inhabitable , and without other small isles . 
In every isle is great plenty of cities , and of towns , and of folk without number . 
For men of Ind have this condition of kind , that they never go out of their own country , and therefore is there great multitude of people . 
And the moon passeth through the twelve signs in one month . 
And in our country is all the contrary for we be in the seventh climate , that is of the moon . 
Also men go through Ind by many diverse countries to the great sea Ocean . 
And after , men find there an isle that is clept Crues . 
And thither come merchants of Venice and Genoa , and of other marches , for to buy merchandises . 
And they lie all in the water , save the visage , for the great heat that there is . 
And the women have no shame of the men , but lie all together , side to side , till the heat be past . 
There may men see many foul figure assembled , and namely nigh the good towns . 
And if a ship passed by those marches that had either iron bonds or iron nails , anon he should be perished for the adamant of his kind draweth the iron to him . 
And so would it draw to him the ship because of the iron , that he should never depart from it , ne never go thence . 
From that isle men go by sea to another isle that is clept Chana , where is great plenty of corn and wine . 
And it was wont to be a great isle , and a great haven and a good but the sea hath greatly wasted it and overcome it . 
The king of that country was wont to be so strong and so mighty that he held war against King Alexander . 
The folk of that country have a diverse law . 
For some of them worship the sun , some the moon , some the fire , some trees , some serpents , or the first thing that they meet at morrow . 
And some worship simulacres and some idols . 
But between simulacres and idols is a great difference . 
For simulacres be images made after likeness of men or of women , or of the sun , or of the moon , or of any beast , or of any kindly thing . 
And they that worship simulacres , they worship them for some worthy man that was sometime , as Hercules , and many other that did many marvels in their time . 
For they say well that they be not gods for they know well that there is a God of kind that made all things , the which is in heaven . 
Therefore , it is good reason , as they say , to do it worship and reverence . 
And so say they , and make their reasons , of other planets , and of the fire also , because it is so profitable . 
And of idols they say also that the ox is the most holy beast that is in earth and most patient , and more profitable than any other . 
For he doth good enough and he doth no evil and they know well that it may not be without special grace of God . 
And therefore make they their god of an ox the one part , and the other half of a man . 
And therefore they make images like to those things that they have belief in , for to behold them and worship them first at morning , or they meet any contrarious things . 
And also to such folk , it is an evil meeting of ravens . 
In these things and in such other , there be many folk that believe because it happeneth so often time to fall after their fantasies . 
And also there be men enough that have no belief in them . 
But natheles , therefore should not a man put his belief in such things , but always have full trust and belief in God our sovereign Lord . 
This isle of Chana the Saracens have won and hold . 
In that isle be many lions and many other wild beasts . 
And there be rats in that isle as great as hounds here and men take them with great mastiffs , for cats may not take them . 
In this isle and many other men bury not no dead men , for the heat is there so great , that in a little time the flesh will consume from the bones . 
From thence men go by sea toward Ind the more to a city , that men clepe Sarche , that is a fair city and a good . 
And there dwell many Christian men of good faith . 
And there be many religious men , and namely of mendicants . 
After go men by sea to the land of Lomb . 
In that land groweth the pepper in the forest that men clepe Combar . 
And it groweth nowhere else in all the world , but in that forest , and that endureth well an eighteen journeys in length . 
In the forest be two good cities that one hight Fladrine and that other Zinglantz , and in every of them dwell Christian men and Jews , great plenty . 
For it is a good country and a plentiful , but there is overmuch passing heat . 
And the fruit thereof hangeth in manner as raisins . 
And the tree is so thick charged , that it seemeth that it would break . 
And when it is ripe it is all green , as it were ivy berries . 
And then men cut them , as men do the vines , and then they put it upon an oven , and there it waxeth black and crisp . 
And there is three manner of pepper all upon one tree long pepper , black pepper and white pepper . 
The long pepper men clepe SORBOTIN , and the black pepper is clept FULFULLE , and the white pepper is clept BANO . 
The long pepper cometh first when the leaf beginneth to come , and it is like the cats of hazel that cometh before the leaf , and it hangeth low . 
And after cometh the black with the leaf , in manner of clusters of raisins , all green . 
And when men have gathered it , then cometh the white that is somedeal less than the black . 
And of that men bring but little into this country for they beyond withhold it for themselves , because it is better and more attempre in kind than the black . 
And therefore is there not so great plenty as of the black . 
In that country be many manner of serpents and of other vermin for the great heat of the country and of the pepper . 
And some men say , that when they will gather the pepper , they make fire , and burn about to make the serpents and the cockodrills to flee . 
But save their grace of all that say so . 
Also toward the head of that forest is the city of Polombe . 
And above the city is a great mountain that also is clept Polombe . 
And of that mount the city hath his name . 
And at the foot of that mount is a fair well and a great , that hath odour and savour of all spices . 
And at every hour of the day he changeth his odour and his savour diversely . 
And whoso drinketh three times fasting of that water of that well he is whole of all manner sickness that he hath . 
And they that dwell there and drink often of that well they never have sickness and they seem always young . 
I have drunken thereof three or four sithes , and yet , methinketh , I fare the better . 
Some men clepe it the well of youth . 
For they that often drink thereof seem always young like , and live without sickness . 
And men say , that that well cometh out of Paradise , and therefore it is so virtuous . 
By all that country groweth good ginger , and therefore thither go the merchants for spicery . 
In that land men worship the ox for his simpleness and for his meekness , and for the profit that cometh of him . 
And they say , that he is the holiest beast in earth . 
For them seemeth , that whosoever be meek and patient , he is holy and profitable for then , they say , he hath all virtues in him . 
They make the ox to labour six year or seven , and then they eat him . 
And the king of the country hath alway an ox with him . 
And he beareth it before the king and maketh there over a great blessing . 
And then the king wetteth his hands there , in that they clepe gall , and anointeth his front and his breast . 
And when the king hath done , then do the lords and after them their ministers and other men , if they may have any remenant . 
In that country they make idols , half man half ox . 
And in those idols evil spirits speak and give answer to men of what is asked them . 
Before these idols men slay their children many times , and spring the blood upon the idols and so they make their sacrifice . 
And when any man dieth in the country they burn his body in name of penance to that intent , that he suffer no pain in earth to be eaten of worms . 
But and she have children with him , they let her live with them , to bring them up if she will . 
In that country grow many strong vines . 
And the women drink wine , and men not . 
And the women shave their beards , and the men not . 
CHAPTER XIX OF THE DOOMS MADE BY ST . 
In that kingdom lieth the body of Saint Thomas the apostle in flesh and bone , in a fair tomb in the city of Calamye for there he was martyred and buried . 
And men of Assyria bare his body into Mesopotamia into the city of Edessa , and after , he was brought thither again . 
And by that hand they make all their judgments in the country , whoso hath right or wrong . 
And anon he casteth away the bill of the wrong cause and holdeth still the bill with the right cause . 
And therefore men come from far countries to have judgment of doubtable causes . 
And other judgment use they none there . 
And it sitteth in a chair of gold , full nobly arrayed , and he hath about his neck large girdles wrought of gold and precious stones and pearls . 
And this church is full richly wrought and , all overgilt within . 
And to that idol go men on pilgrimage , as commonly and with as great devotion as Christian men go to Saint James , or other holy pilgrimages . 
And they say , that he is blessed and holy , that dieth so for love of his god . 
And other there be that lead their children for to slay , to make sacrifice to that idol and after they have slain them they spring the blood upon the idol . 
And so come folk to worship this idol , some from an hundred mile , and some from many more . 
And before the minster of this idol , is a vivary , in manner of a great lake , full of water . 
And therein pilgrims cast gold and silver , pearls and precious stones without number , instead of offerings . 
And they set this idol upon a car with great reverence , well arrayed with cloths of gold , of rich cloths of Tartary , of Camaka , and other precious cloths . 
And they lead him about the city with great solemnity . 
And before the car go first in procession all the maidens of the country , two and two together full ordinatly . 
And after those maidens go the pilgrims . 
And some of them fall down under the wheels of the car , and let the car go over them , so that they be dead anon . 
And some have their arms or their limbs all to broken , and some the sides . 
And all this do they for love of their god , in great devotion . 
And them thinketh that the more pain , and the more tribulation that they suffer for love of their god , the more joy they shall have in another world . 
And when they have gone all about the city , then they return again to the minster , and put the idol again into his place . 
And then they say that those be saints , because that they slew themselves of their own good will for love of their idol . 
And as men here that had an holy saint of his kin would think that it were to them an high worship , right so then , thinketh there . 
And then he smiteth himself and maketh great wounds and deep , here and there , till he fall down dead . 
And then his friends present his body to the idol . 
And then they say , singing , Holy god ! behold what thy true servant hath done for thee . 
Wherefore , holy god , put him among thy best beloved saints in thy bliss of paradise , for he hath well deserved it . 
And then they make a great fire , and burn the body . 
And then everych of his friends take a quantity of the ashes , and keep them instead of relics , and say that it is holy thing . 
And they have no dread of no peril whiles they have those holy ashes upon them . 
And they put his name in their litanies as a saint . 
CHAPTER XX OF THE EVIL CUSTOMS USED IN THE ISLE OF LAMARY . 
And a fifty two journeys from this land that I have spoken of , there is another land , that is full great , that men clepe Lamary . 
In that land is full great heat . 
And the custom there is such , that men and women go all naked . 
And they scorn when they see any strange folk going clothed . 
And they say , that they that be clothed be folk of another world , or they be folk that trow not in God . 
And they say , that they believe in God that formed the world , and that made Adam and Eve and all other things . 
And they wed there no wives , for all the women there be common and they forsake no man . 
And therefore may no man in that country say , This is my wife ne no woman may say , This my husband . 
And when they have children , they may give them to what man they will that hath companied with them . 
And also all the land is common for all that a man holdeth one year , another man hath it another year and every man taketh what part that him liketh . 
Thither go merchants and bring with them children to sell to them of the country , and they buy them . 
And if they be fat they eat them anon . 
And if they be lean they feed them till they be fat , and then they eat them . 
And they say , that it is the best flesh and the sweetest of all the world . 
But men see another star , the contrary to him , that is toward the south , that is clept Antartic . 
And this star that is toward the north , that we clepe the Lode star , ne appeareth not to them . 
The which thing I prove thus after that I have seen . 
Now shall ye know , that against the Transmontane is the tother star that is clept Antarctic , as I have said before . 
And those two stars ne move never , and by them turneth all the firmament right as doth a wheel that turneth by his axle tree . 
So that those stars bear the firmament in two equal parts , so that it hath as much above as it hath beneath . 
After this , I have gone toward the parts meridional , that is , toward the south , and I have found that in Lybia men see first the star Antarctic . 
For , as I have said to you before , the half of the firmament is between those two stars , the which halvendel I have seen . 
And then , the halvendel of the firmament in all holdeth not but nine score degrees . 
And also I have seen the three parts of all the roundness of the firmament and more yet five degrees and a half . 
And always he should find men , lands and isles , as well as in this country . 
For all the parts of sea and of land have their opposites , habitable trepassable , and they of this half and beyond half . 
And wit well , that , after that that I may perceive and comprehend , the lands of Prester John , Emperor of Ind , be under us . 
For in going from Scotland or from England toward Jerusalem men go upward always . 
For our land is in the low part of the earth toward the west , and the land of Prester John is in the low part of the earth toward the east . 
And they have there the day when we have the night and also , high to the contrary , they have the night when we have the day . 
Also ye have heard me say that Jerusalem is in the midst of the world . 
And that it should be in the midst of the world , David witnesseth it in the Psalter , where he saith , DEUS OPERATUS EST SALUTEM IN MEDIA TERRAE . 
And when men go beyond those journeys toward Ind and to the foreign isles , all is environing the roundness of the earth and of the sea under our countries on this half . 
And so he passed Ind and the isles beyond Ind , where be more than isles . 
But he turned again from thence , from whence he was come from . 
And so he lost much painful labour , as himself said a great while after that he was come home . 
For it befell after , that he went into Norway . 
And there tempest of the sea took him , and he arrived in an isle . 
But how it seemeth to simple men unlearned , that men ne may not go under the earth , and also that men should fall toward the heaven from under . 
But that may not be , upon less than we may fall toward heaven from the earth where we be . 
For from what part of the earth that men dwell , either above or beneath , it seemeth always to them that dwell that they go more right than any other folk . 
And right as it seemeth to us that they be under us , right so it seemeth to them that we be under them . 
But , after my little wit , it seemeth me , saving their reverence , that it is more . 
And for to have better understanding I say thus . 
Be there imagined a figure that hath a great compass . 
And , about the point of the great compass that is clept the centre , be made another little compass . 
Then after , be the great compass devised by lines in many parts , and that all the lines meet at the centre . 
Now then , be the great compass represented for the firmament , and the little compass represented for the earth . 
Now then , the firmament is devised by astronomers in twelve signs , and every sign is devised in thirty degrees that is , degrees that the firmament hath above . 
Also , be the earth devised in as many parts as the firmament , and let every part answer to a degree of the firmament . 
And wit it well , that , after the authors of astronomy , furlongs of earth answer to a degree of the firmament , and those be eighty seven miles and four furlongs . 
Now be that here multiplied by sithes , and then they be , miles every of eight furlongs , after miles of our country . 
So much hath the earth in roundness and of height environ , after mine opinion and mine understanding . 
For the superficiality of the earth is parted in seven parts for the seven planets , and those parts be clept climates . 
And our parts be not of the seven climates , for they be descending toward the west drawing towards the roundness of the world . 
And also these isles of Ind which be even against us be not reckoned in the climates . 
For they be against us that be in the low country . 
And the seven climates stretch them environing the world . 
CHAPTER XXI OF THE PALACE OF THE KING OF THE ISLE OF JAVA . 
That is a great isle , and the king thereof is right mighty . 
And they have war always with the folk that go all naked . 
And fast beside is another isle , that is clept Betemga , that is a good isle and a plenteous . 
And many other isles be thereabout , where there be many of diverse folk , of the which it were too long to speak of all . 
But fast beside that isle , for to pass by sea , is a great isle and a great country that men clepe Java . 
And it is nigh two thousand mile in circuit . 
And the king of that country is a full great lord and a rich and a mighty , and hath under him seven other kings of seven other isles about him . 
This isle is full well inhabited , and full well manned . 
There grow all manner of spicery , more plenteously than in any other country , as of ginger , cloves gilofre , canell , seedwall , nutmegs and maces . 
Many other spices and many other goods grow in that isle . 
For of all things is there plenty , save only of wine . 
But there is gold and silver , great plenty . 
And the king of that country hath a palace full noble and full marvellous , and more rich than any in the world . 
For all the degrees to go up into halls and chambers be , one of gold , another of silver . 
And also , the pavements of halls and chambers be all square , of gold one , and another of silver . 
And other trees there be also that bear wine of noble sentiment . 
And if you like to hear how the meal cometh out of the trees I shall say you . 
And the honey and the wine and the venom be drawn out of other trees in the same manner , and put in vessels for to keep . 
In that isle is a dead sea , that is a lake that hath no ground and if anything fall into that lake it shall never come up again . 
In that lake grow reeds , that be canes , that they clepe Thaby , that be thirty fathoms long and of these canes men make fair houses . 
And also of those canes they make houses and ships and other things , as we have here , making houses and ships of oak or of any other trees . 
After this isle men go by sea to another isle that is clept Calonak . 
And it is a fair land and a plenteous of goods . 
And the king of that country hath as many wives as he will . 
For he maketh search all the country to get him the fairest maidens that may be found , and maketh them to be brought before him . 
And he taketh one one night , and another another night , and so forth continually suing so that he hath a thousand wives or more . 
And he lieth never but one night with one of them , and another night with another but if that one happen to be more lusty to his pleasance than another . 
And therefore the king getteth full many children , some time an hundred , some time a two hundred , and some time more . 
And he hath also into a , elephants or more that he maketh for to be brought up amongst his villains by all his towns . 
And so do other kings there about . 
For the manner of war is not there as it is here or in other countries , ne the ordinance of war neither . 
And men clepe the elephants WARKES . 
And in that isle there is a great marvel , more to speak of than in any other part of the world . 
For all manner of fishes , that be there in the sea about them , come once in the year each manner of diverse fishes , one manner of kind after other . 
And they cast themselves to the sea bank of that isle so great plenty and multitude , that no man may unnethe see but fish . 
And there they abide three days . 
And every man of the country taketh of them as many as him liketh . 
And after , that manner of fish after the third day departeth and goeth into the sea . 
And after them come another multitude of fish of another kind and do in the same manner as the first did , other three days . 
And after them another , till all the diverse manner of fishes have been there , and that men have taken of them that them liketh . 
And no man knoweth the cause wherefore it may be . 
I know not the reason , why it is , but God knoweth but this , me seemeth , is the most marvel I saw . 
And therefore , I am siker that this may not be , without a great token . 
There be also in that country a kind of snails that be so great , that many persons may lodge them in their shells , as men would do in a little house . 
And other snails there be that be full great but not so huge as the other . 
From that country men go by the sea ocean by an isle that is clept Caffolos . 
From that isle men go to another isle , where the folk be of full cursed kind . 
For they nourish great dogs and teach them to strangle their friends when they be sick . 
For they will not that they die of kindly death . 
For they say , that they should suffer too great pain if they abide to die by themselves , as nature would . 
And , when they be thus enstrangled , they eat their flesh instead of venison . 
Afterward men go by many isles by sea unto an isle that men clepe Milke . 
And there is a full cursed people . 
For they delight in nothing more than for to fight and to slay men . 
And they drink gladliest man's blood , the which they clepe Dieu . 
And the more men that a man may slay , the more worship he hath amongst them . 
And when they see any man passing through their countries they hide them in their caves . 
And they eat flesh of serpents , and they eat but little . 
And they speak nought , but they hiss as serpents do . 
And they set no price by no avoir ne riches , but only of a precious stone , that is amongst them , that is of sixty colours . 
And for the name of the isle , they clepe it Tracodon . 
And they love more that stone than anything else and yet they know not the virtue thereof , but they covet it and love it only for the beauty . 
After that isle men go by the sea ocean , by many isles , unto an isle that is clept Nacumera , that is a great isle and good and fair . 
And it is in compass about , more than a thousand mile . 
And all the men and women of that isle have hounds' heads , and they be clept Cynocephales . 
And they be full reasonable and of good understanding , save that they worship an ox for their God . 
And also every one of them beareth an ox of gold or of silver in his forehead , in token that they love well their God . 
And they go all naked save a little clout , that they cover with their knees and their members . 
They be great folk and well fighting . 
And they have a great targe that covereth all the body , and a spear in their hand to fight with . 
And if they take any man in battle , anon they eat him . 
The king of that isle is full rich and full mighty and right devout after his law . 
And he hath about his neck pearls orient , good and great and knotted , as paternosters here of amber . 
And he beareth also about his neck a ruby orient , noble and fine , that is a foot of length and five fingers large . 
And , when they choose their king , they take him that ruby to bear in his hand and so they lead him , riding all about the city . 
And from thence fromward they be all obeissant to him . 
And that ruby he shall bear always about his neck , for if he had not that ruby upon him men would not hold him for king . 
The great Chan of Cathay hath greatly coveted that ruby , but he might never have it for war , ne for no manner of goods . 
From this land men go to another isle that is clept Silha . 
And it is well a miles about . 
In that land is full much waste , for it is full of serpents , of dragons and of cockodrills , that no man dare dwell there . 
These cockodrills be serpents , yellow and rayed above , and have four feet and short thighs , and great nails as claws or talons . 
And there be some that have five fathoms in length , and some of six and of eight and of ten . 
And when they go by places that be gravelly , it seemeth as though men had drawn a great tree through the gravelly place . 
And there be also many wild beasts , and namely of elephants . 
In that isle is a great mountain . 
And in mid place of the mount is a great lake in a full fair plain and there is great plenty of water . 
And in the bottom of that lake men find many precious stones and great pearls . 
In that lake grow many reeds and great canes and there within be many cocodrills and serpents and great water leeches . 
And all the year men find enough . 
This water runneth , flowing and ebbing , by a side of the mountain , and in that river men find precious stones and pearls , great plenty . 
In that country and others thereabout there be wild geese that have two heads . 
And there be lions , all white and as great as oxen , and many other diverse beasts and fowls also that be not seen amongst us . 
And that is great marvel that it might be so , save only the will of God , that the air sustaineth it . 
And therefore saith David in the Psalter , MIRABILES ELATIONES MARIS . 
CHAPTER XXII HOW MEN KNOW BY THE IDOL , IF THE SICK SHALL DIE OR NOT . 
OF FOLK OF DIVERSE SHAPE AND MARVELLOUSLY DISFIGURED . 
In that isle be folk of diverse kinds , so that the father eateth the son , the son the father , the husband the wife , and the wife the husband . 
And then the priest and the son go together before the idol and kneel full devoutly and ask of the idol their demand . 
And after that , they chop all the body in small pieces , and pray all his friends to come and eat of him that is dead . 
And they send for all the minstrels of the country and make a solemn feast . 
And when they have eaten the flesh , they take the bones and bury them , and sing and make great melody . 
The king of this isle is a full great lord and a mighty , and hath under him fifty four great isles that give tribute to him . 
And in everych of these isles is a king crowned and all be obeissant to that king . 
And he hath in those isles many diverse folk . 
In one of these isles be folk of great stature , as giants . 
And they be hideous for to look upon . 
And they have but one eye , and that is in the middle of the front . 
And they eat nothing but raw flesh and raw fish . 
And in another isle toward the south dwell folk of foul stature and of cursed kind that have no heads . 
And their eyen be in their shoulders . 
And in another isle be folk that have the face all flat , all plain , without nose and without mouth . 
But they have two small holes , all round , instead of their eyes , and their mouth is plat also without lips . 
And in another isle there be little folk , as dwarfs . 
And they be two so much as the pigmies . 
And in another isle be folk that have great ears and long , that hang down to their knees . 
And in another isle be folk that have horses' feet . 
And they be strong and mighty , and swift runners for they take wild beasts with running , and eat them . 
And in another isle be folk that go upon their hands and their feet as beasts . 
And they be all skinned and feathered , and they will leap as lightly into trees , and from tree to tree , as it were squirrels or apes . 
And in another isle be folk that be both man and woman , and they have kind of that one and of that other . 
And they have but one pap on the one side , and on that other none . 
And they have members of generation of man and woman , and they use both when they list , once that one , and another time that other . 
And they get children , when they use the member of man and they bear children , when they use the member of woman . 
And in another isle be folk that go always upon their knees full marvellously . 
And at every pace that they go , it seemeth that they would fall . 
And they have in every foot eight toes . 
Many other diverse folk of diverse natures be there in other isles about , of the which it were too long to tell , and therefore I pass over shortly . 
From these isles , in passing by the sea ocean toward the east by many journeys , men find a great country and a great kingdom that men crepe Mancy . 
And that is in Ind the more . 
In that land dwell many Christian men and Saracens , for it is a good country and a great . 
And there be therein more than great cities and rich , without other great towns . 
And there is more plenty of people there than in any other part of Ind , for the bounty of the country . 
In that country is no needy man , ne none that goeth on begging . 
And they be full fair folk , but they be all pale . 
In that land be many fairer women than in any other country beyond the sea , and therefore men clepe that land Albany , because that the folk be white . 
And the chief city of that country is clept Latorin , and it is a journey from the sea , and it is much more than Paris . 
In that city is a great river bearing ships that go to all the coasts in the sea . 
No city of the world is so well stored of ships as is that . 
And all those of the city and of the country worship idols . 
In that country be double sithes more birds than be here . 
Many good cities there be in that country and men have great plenty and great cheap of all wines and victuals . 
In that country be many churches of religious men , and of their law . 
And in those churches be idols as great as giants and to these idols they give to eat at great festival days in this manner . 
In that country be white hens without feathers , but they bear white wool as sheep do here . 
In that country women that be unmarried , they have tokens on their heads like coronals to be known for unmarried . 
And when men cast them into the water , anon they bring up great fishes , as many as men will . 
And if men will have more , they cast them in again , and they bring up as many as men list to have . 
And from that city passing many journeys is another city , one the greatest of the world , that men clepe Cassay that is to say , the 'City of heaven . 
That city is well a fifty mile about , and it is strongly inhabited with people , insomuch that in one house men make ten households . 
In that city be twelve principal gates and before every gate , a three mile or a four mile in length , is a great town or a great city . 
That city sits upon a great lake on the sea as doth Venice . 
And in that city be more than , bridges . 
And upon every bridge be strong towers and good , in the which dwell the wardens for to keep the city from the great Chan . 
And on that one part of the city runneth a great river all along the city . 
And there dwell Christian men and many merchants and other folk of diverse nations , because that the land is so good and so plenteous . 
And there groweth full good wine that men clepe Bigon , that is full mighty , and gentle in drinking . 
This is a city royal where the King of Mancy was wont to dwell . 
And there dwell many religious men , as it were of the Order of Friars , for they be mendicants . 
In that abbey is a great garden and a fair , where be many trees of diverse manner of fruits . 
And in this garden is a little hill full of delectable trees . 
In that hill and in that garden be many diverse beasts , as of apes , marmosets , baboons and many other diverse beasts . 
And when they have eaten , the monk smiteth eftsoons on the garden gate with the clicket , and then anon all the beasts return again to their places that they come from . 
And thus they believe , and no man may put them out of this opinion . 
These beasts above said they let take when they be young , and nourish them so with alms , as many as they may find . 
And I asked them if it had not been better to have given that relief to poor men , rather than to those beasts . 
Many other marvels be in that city and in the country thereabout , that were too long to tell you . 
From that city go men by the country a six journeys to another city that men clepe Chilenfo , of the which city the walls be twenty mile about . 
In that city be sixty bridges of stone , so fair that no man may see fairer . 
In that city was the first siege of the King of Mancy , for it is a fair and plenteous of all goods . 
After , pass men overthwart a great river that men clepe Dalay . 
And that is the greatest river of fresh water that is in the world . 
For there , as it is most narrow , it is more than four mile of breadth . 
And then enter men again into the land of the great Chan . 
And they marry them when they be half year of age and get children . 
And they live not but six year or seven at the most and he that liveth eight year , men hold him there right passing old . 
These men be the best workers of gold , silver , cotton , silk and of all such things , of any other that be in the world . 
And they have oftentimes war with the birds of the country that they take and eat . 
This little folk neither labour in lands ne in vines but they have great men amongst them of our stature that till the land and labour amongst the vines for them . 
And of those men of our stature have they as great scorn and wonder as we would have among us of giants , if they were amongst us . 
There is a good city , amongst others , where there is dwelling great plenty of those little folk , and it is a great city and a fair . 
And the men be great that dwell amongst them , but when they get any children they be as little as the pigmies . 
And therefore they be , all for the most part , all pigmies for the nature of the land is such . 
The great Chan let keep this city full well , for it is his . 
And albeit , that the pigmies be little , yet they be full reasonable after their age , and can both wit and good and malice enough . 
That city is full much worth yearly to the lord of the country . 
, cumants of florins of gold for they count there all by cumants , and every cumant is , florins of gold . 
Now may men well reckon how much that it amounteth . 
The king of that country is full mighty , and yet he is under the great Chan . 
And the great Chan hath under him twelve such provinces . 
And a five mile from that city , toward the head of the river of Dalay , is another city that men clepe Menke . 
In that city is strong navy of ships . 
And all be white as snow of the kind of the trees that they be made of . 
And they be full great ships and fair , and well ordained , and made with halls and chambers and other easements , as though it were on the land . 
From thence go men , by many towns and many cities , through the country , unto a city that men clepe Lanterine . 
And it is an eight journeys from the city above said . 
This city sits upon a fair river , great and broad , that men clepe Caramaron . 
This river passeth throughout Cathay . 
And it doth often time harm , and that full great , when it is over great . 
CHAPTER XXIII OF THE GREAT CHAN OF CATHAY . 
Thither go merchants all years for to seek spices and all manner of merchandises , more commonly than in any other part . 
From Cathay go men toward the east by many journeys . 
And then men find a good city between these others , that men clepe Sugarmago . 
That city is one of the best stored of silk and other merchandises that is in the world . 
After go men yet to another old city toward the east . 
And it is in the province of Cathay . 
And beside that city the men of Tartary have let make another city that is dept Caydon . 
And within the walls it is all full of other palaces . 
And all about the palace and the hill be many trees bearing many diverse fruits . 
And all about that hill be ditches great and deep , and beside them be great vivaries on that one part and on that other . 
And there is a full fair bridge to pass over the ditches . 
And in these vivaries be so many wild geese and ganders and wild ducks and swans and herons that it is without number . 
And all about these ditches and vivaries is the great garden full of wild beasts . 
This palace , where his siege is , is both great and passing fair . 
And within the palace , in the hall , there be twenty four pillars of fine gold . 
Those skins be as red as blood , and they shine so bright against the sun , that unnethe no man may behold them . 
And many folk worship those beasts , when they meet them first at morning , for their great virtue and for the good smell that they have . 
And those skins they prize more than though they were plate of fine gold . 
And in the midst of this palace is the mountour for the great Chan , that is all wrought of gold and of precious stones and great pearls . 
And at four corners of the mountour be four serpents of gold . 
And all about there is y made large nets of silk and gold and great pearls hanging all about the mountour . 
And under the mountour be conduits of beverage that they drink in the emperor's court . 
And beside the conduits be many vessels of gold , by the which they that be of household drink at the conduit . 
And the hall of the palace is full nobly arrayed , and full marvellously attired on all parts in all things that men apparel with any hall . 
And first , at the chief of the hall is the emperor's throne , full high , where he sitteth at the meat . 
And that is of fine precious stones , bordered all about with pured gold and precious stones , and great pearls . 
And the grees that he goeth up to the table be of precious stones mingled with gold . 
And the siege of his second wife is also another siege , more lower than his first wife and it is also of jasper , bordered with gold , as that other is . 
And the siege of the third wife is also more low , by a degree , than the second wife . 
For he hath always three wives with him , where that ever he be . 
And after his wives , on the same side , sit the ladies of his lineage yet lower , after that they be of estate . 
And they that be unmarried have none such . 
And after at the right side of the emperor first sitteth his eldest son that shall reign after him . 
And he sitteth also one degree lower than the emperor , in such manner of sieges as do the empresses . 
And after him sit other great lords of his lineage , every of them a degree lower than the other , as they be of estate . 
And every one of his wives hath also her table by herself . 
And his eldest son and the other lords also , and the ladies , and all that sit with the emperor have tables alone by themselves , full rich . 
And there ne is no table but that it is worth an huge treasure of goods . 
And men make them dance and sing , clapping their wings together , and make great noise . 
And whether it be by craft or by necromancy I wot never but it is a good sight to behold , and a fair and it is great marvel how it may be . 
And therefore they say themselves , that they see with two eyes and the Christian men see but with one , because that they be more subtle than they . 
For all other nations , they say , be but blind in cunning and working in comparison to them . 
Also above the emperor's table and the other tables , and above a great part in the hall , is a vine made of fine gold . 
And it spreadeth all about the hall . 
And it hath many clusters of grapes , some white , some green , some yellow and some red and some black , all of precious stones . 
And they be all so properly made that it seemeth a very vine bearing kindly grapes . 
And before the emperor's table stand great lords and rich barons and other that serve the emperor at the meat . 
And the cups be of emeralds and of sapphires , or of topazes , of perydoz , and of many other precious stones . 
Vessels of silver is there none , for they tell no price thereof to make no vessels of but they make thereof grecings and pillars and pavements to halls and chambers . 
For the lords here have folk of certain number as they may suffice but the great Chan hath every day folk at his costage and expense as without number . 
But the estate of lords is full great , and rich and noble . 
And whoso that will may lieve me if he will , and whoso will not , may leave also . 
And truly , no more did I myself , till I saw it . 
And those that have been in those countries and in the great Chan's household know well that I say sooth . 
CHAPTER XXIV WHEREFORE HE IS CLEPT THE GREAT CHAN . 
OF THE STYLE OF HIS LETTERS , AND OF THE SUPERSCRIPTION ABOUT HIS GREAT SEAL AND HIS PRIVY SEAL FIRST I shall say you why he was clept the great Chan . 
Ye shall understand , that all the world was destroyed by Noah's flood , save only Noah and his wife and his children . 
Noah had three sons , Shem , Cham , and Japhet . 
This Cham was he that saw his father's privy members naked when he slept , and scorned them , and shewed them with his finger to his brethren in scorning wise . 
And therefore he was cursed of God . 
And Japhet turned his face away and covered them . 
These three brethren had seisin in all the land . 
And therefore is all the earth parted in these three parts by these three brethren . 
Cham was the greatest and the most mighty , and of him came more generations than of the other . 
And of his son Chuse was engendered Nimrod the giant , that was the first king that ever was in the world and he began the foundation of the tower of Babylon . 
And of that generation of Cham be come the Paynims and divers folk that be in isles of the sea by all Ind . 
And forasmuch as he was the most mighty , and no man might withstand him , he cleped himself the Son of God and sovereign of all the world . 
And for this Cham , this emperor clepeth him Cham , and sovereign of all the world . 
And of the generation of Shem be come the Saracens . 
And of the generation of Japhet is come the people of Israel . 
And though that we dwell in Europe , this is the opinion , that the Syrians and the Samaritans have amongst them . 
And that they told me , before that I went toward Ind , but I found it otherwise . 
It is but little more but eight score year that all Tartary was in subjection and in servage to other nations about . 
For they were but bestial folk and did nothing but kept beasts and led them to pastures . 
But among them they had seven principal nations that were sovereigns of them all . 
Of the which , the first nation or lineage was clept Tartar , and that is the most noble and the most prized . 
The second lineage is clept Tanghot , the third Eurache , the fourth Valair , the fifth Semoche , the sixth Megly , the seventh Coboghe . 
Now befell it so that of the first lineage succeeded an old worthy man that was not rich , that had to name Changuys . 
This man lay upon a night in his bed . 
And he saw in avision , that there came before him a knight armed all in white . 
And when he came at morrow , Changuys rose , and went to seven lineages , and told them how the white knight had said . 
And they scorned him , and said that he was a fool . 
And so he departed from them all ashamed . 
And on the morrow , they chose him to be their emperor . 
And they set him upon a black fertre , and after that they lift him up with great solemnity . 
And they set him in a chair of gold and did him all manner of reverence , and they cleped him Chan , as the white knight called him . 
And when he was thus chosen , he would assay if he might trust in them or no , and whether they would be obeissant to him or no . 
And then he made many statutes and ordinances that they clepe YSYA CHAN . 
And they did so anon . 
And anon his commandment was performed . 
And after this , Chan put in subjection all the lands about him . 
Afterward it befell upon a day , that the Can rode with a few meinie for to behold the strength of the country that he had won . 
And so befell , that a great multitude of enemies met with him . 
And when the enemies were far pursuing the chase , the emperor hid him in a thick wood . 
And thou shalt win the land and thou shalt put many nations in subjection . 
And the Chan did so . 
And for the nine kneelings and for the nine foot of way the Chan and all the men of Tartary have the number of nine in great reverence . 
And so then be the presents of greater pleasure to him and more benignly he will receive them than though he were presented with an hundred or two hundred . 
For him seemeth the number of nine so holy , because the messenger of God Immortal devised it . 
Also , when the Chan of Cathay had won the country of Cathay , and put in subjection and under foot many countries about , he fell sick . 
And when he felt well that he should die , he said to his twelve sons , that everych of them should bring him one of his arrows . 
And so they did anon . 
And then he commanded that men should bind them together in three places . 
And then he took them to his eldest son , and bade him break them all together . 
And he enforced him with all his might to break them , but he ne might not . 
And then the Chan bade his second son to break them and so , shortly , to all , each after other but none of them might break them . 
And then he bade the youngest son dissever every one from other , and break everych by himself . 
And wherefore , quoth he , hath your little youngest brother broken them ? Because , quoth they , that they were parted each from other . 
And then said the Chan , My sons , quoth he , truly thus will it fare by you . 
But and ye be dissevered from these three places , that your one help not your other , ye shall be destroyed and brought to nought . 
And if each of you love other and help other , ye shall be lords and sovereigns of all others . 
And when he had made his ordinances , he died . 
And then after him reigned Ecchecha Cane , his eldest son . 
After Ecchecha reigned Guyo Chan . 
And then said Halaon , Thou wert as a god of the Saracens . 
And it is convenient to a god to eat no meat that is mortal . 
And therefore , thou shall not eat but precious stones , rich pearls and treasure , that thou lovest so much . 
And then he commanded him to prison , and all his treasure about him . 
And so he died for hunger and thirst . 
And then after this , Halaon won all the Land of Promission , and put it into Christian men's hands . 
But the great Chan , his brother , died and that was great sorrow and loss to all Christian men . 
After Mango Chan reigned Cobyla Chan that was also a Christian man . 
And he reigned forty two year . 
He founded the great city Izonge in Cathay , that is a great deal more than Rome . 
The tother great Chan that came after him became a Paynim , and all the others after him . 
The kingdom of Cathay is the greatest realm of the world . 
And also the great Chan is the most mighty emperor of the world and the greatest lord under the firmament . 
And the superscription about his little seal is this DEI FORTITUDO , OMNIUM HOMINUM IMPERATORIS SIGILLUM . 
And albeit that they be not christened , yet nevertheless the emperor and all the Tartars believe in God Immortal . 
And when they will menace any man , then they say , God knoweth well that I shall do thee such a thing , and telleth his menace . 
And thus have ye heard , why he is clept the great Chan . 
CHAPTER XXV OF THE GOVERNANCE OF THE GREAT CHAN'S COURT , AND WHEN HE MAKETH SOLEMN FEASTS . 
The first feast of the idol is when he is first put into their temple and throned the tother feast is when the idol beginneth first to speak , or to work miracles . 
More be there not of solemn feasts , but if he marry any of his children . 
Now understand , that at every of these feasts he hath great multitude of people , well ordained and well arrayed , by thousands , by hundreds , and by tens . 
And every man knoweth well what service he shall do , and every man giveth so good heed and so good attendance to his service that no man findeth no default . 
And there be first ordained barons , mighty and rich , for to govern and to make ordinance for the feast , and for to serve the emperor . 
And these solemn feasts be made without in halls and tents made of cloths of gold and of tartaries , full nobly . 
And all those barons have crowns of gold upon their heads , full noble and rich , full of precious stones and great pearls orient . 
And all those robes be orfrayed all about , and dubbed full of precious stones and of great orient pearls , full richly . 
And they may well do so , for cloths of gold and of silk be greater cheap there a great deal than be cloths of wool . 
The second thousand is all clothed in cloths diapered of red silk , all wrought with gold , and the orfrays set full of great pearl and precious stones , full nobly wrought . 
The third thousand is clothed in cloths of silk , of purple or of Ind . 
And the fourth thousand is in cloths of yellow . 
And when they be thus apparelled , they go two and two together , full ordinately , before the emperor , without speech of any word , save only inclining to him . 
And every one of them beareth a tablet of jasper or of ivory or of crystal , and the minstrels going before them , sounding their instruments of diverse melody . 
And then commandeth the same philosopher again Stand up ! And they do so . 
And at another hour , saith another philosopher Put your little finger in your ears ! And anon they do so . 
And at another hour , saith another philosopher Put your hand before your mouth ! And anon they do so . 
And at another hour , saith another philosopher Put your hand upon your head ! And after that he biddeth them to do their hand away . 
And so , from hour to hour , they command certain things and they say , that those things have diverse significations . 
And I asked them privily what those things betokened . 
And so forth , of all other things that is done by the philosophers , they told me the causes of many diverse things . 
And when they be all cleped , they enter each after other , and present the white horses to the emperor , and then go their way . 
And then after , all the other barons every of them , give him presents or jewels or some other thing , after that they be of estate . 
And then after them , all the prelates of their law , and religious men and others and every man giveth him something . 
And when that all men have thus presented the emperor , the greatest of dignity of the prelates giveth him a blessing , saying an orison of their law . 
And then begin the minstrels to make their minstrelsy in divers instruments with all the melody that they can devise . 
And then come jugglers and enchanters , that do many marvels for they make to come in the air , by seeming , the sun and the moon to every man's sight . 
And after they make the night so dark that no man may see nothing . 
And after they make the day to come again , fair and pleasant with bright sun , to every man's sight . 
And then they bring in dances of the fairest damsels of the world , and richest arrayed . 
And after they make to come in other damsels bringing cups of gold full of milk of diverse beasts , and give drink to lords and to ladies . 
And then they make to come in hunting for the hart and for the boar , with hounds running with open mouth . 
And many other things they do by craft of their enchantments , that it is marvel for to see . 
And such plays of disport they make till the taking up of the boards . 
This great Chan hath full great people for to serve him , as I have told you before . 
For he hath of minstrels the number of thirteen cumants , but they abide not always with him . 
And therefore he hath so great multitude of them . 
And his other common household is without number , and they all have all necessaries and all that them needeth of the emperor's court . 
This emperor may dispend as much as he will without estimation for he not dispendeth ne maketh no money but of leather imprinted or of paper . 
And of that money is some of greater price and some of less price , after the diversity of his statutes . 
And when that money hath run long that it beginneth to waste , then men bear it to the emperor's treasury and then they take new money for the old . 
And of gold and silver that men bear in his country he maketh cylours , pillars and pavements in his palace , and other diverse things what him liketh . 
And he hath many other precious stones and many other rubies and carbuncles but those be the greatest and the most precious . 
This emperor dwelleth in summer in a city that is toward the north that is clept Saduz and there is cold enough . 
And in winter he dwelleth in a city that is clept Camaaleche , and that is an hot country . 
And when this emperor will ride from one country to another he ordaineth four hosts of his folk , of the which the first host goeth before him a day's journey . 
For that host shall be lodged the night where the emperor shall lie upon the morrow . 
And there shall every man have all manner of victual and necessaries that be needful , of the emperor's costage . 
And in this first host is the number of people fifty cumants , what of horse what of foot , of the which every cumant amounteth , as I have told you before . 
And another host goeth in the right side of the emperor , nigh half a journey from him . 
And another goeth on the left side of him , in the same wise . 
And in every host is as much multitude of people as in the first host . 
And then after cometh the fourth host , that is much more than any of the others , and that goeth behind him , the mountance of a bow draught . 
And every host hath his journeys ordained in certain places , where they shall be lodged at night , and there they shall have all that them needeth . 
And if it befall that any of the host die , anon they put another in his place , so that the number shall evermore be whole . 
And this chamber is full well smelling because of the wood that it is made of . 
And all this chamber is covered within of plate of fine gold dubbed with precious stones and great pearls . 
And four elephants and four great destriers , all white and covered with rich covertures , leading the chariot . 
And no man rideth before him of his company , but all after him . 
And no man dare not come nigh the chariot , by a bow draught , but those lords only that be about him . 
And all the host cometh fairly after him in great multitude . 
And his eldest son goeth by another way in another chariot , in the same manner . 
So that there is between them so great multitude of folk that it is marvel to tell it . 
And no man should trow the number , but he had seen it . 
And ye shall understand , that the empire of this great Chan is divided in twelve provinces and every province hath more than two thousand cities , and of towns without number . 
And his land and his lordship dureth so far , that a man may not go from one head to another , neither by sea ne land , the space of seven year . 
For his ambassadors take their dromedaries or their horses , and they prick in all that ever they may toward one of the inns . 
And when they come there , anon they blow an horn . 
And anon they of the inn know well enough that there be tidings to warn the emperor of some rebellion against him . 
And then they make fresh men ready , to prick forth with the letters toward the emperor , while that the last bringer rest him , and bait his dromedary or his horse . 
And so , from inn to inn , till it come to the emperor . 
And thus anon hath he hasty tidings of anything that beareth charge , by his couriers , that run so hastily throughout all the country . 
And thus runneth one to other , full speedily and swiftly , till the emperor's intent be served , in all haste . 
And all the people kneel down against him , and do him great reverence . 
And when he heareth them , he commandeth to his lords to ride beside him , that the religious men may come to him . 
And then he kneeleth to the cross . 
And then the prelate of the religious men saith before him certain orisons , and giveth him a blessing with the cross and he inclineth to the blessing full devoutly . 
And then the prelate giveth him some manner fruit , to the number of nine , in a platter of silver , with pears or apples , or other manner fruit . 
And then men give to the other lords that be about him . 
And then the emperor saith to the religious men , that they withdraw them again , that they be neither hurt nor harmed of the great multitude of horses that come behind him . 
And also , in the same manner , do the religious men that dwell there , to the empresses that pass by them , and to his eldest son . 
And to every of them they present fruit . 
And ye shall understand , that the people that he hath so many hosts of , about him and about his wives and his soil , they dwell not continually with him . 
But always , when him liketh , they be sent for . 
Wherefore it is great harm that he believeth not faithfully in God . 
And natheles he will gladly hear speak of God . 
In that country some men hath an hundred wives , some sixty , some more , some less . 
CHAPTER XXVI OF THE LAW AND THE CUSTOMS OF THE TARTARIANS DWELLING IN CATHAY . 
AND HOW THAT MEN DO WHEN THE EMPEROR SHALL DIE , AND HOW HE SHALL BE CHOSEN THE folk of that country use all long clothes without furs . 
And they be clothed with precious cloths of Tartary , and of cloths of gold . 
And their clothes be slit at the side , and they be fastened with laces of silk . 
And they clothe them also with pilches , and the hide without and they use neither cape ne hood . 
And their wives ne dwell not together , but every of them by herself and the husband may lie with whom of them that him liketh . 
Everych hath his house , both man and woman . 
And their houses be made round of staves , and it hath a round window above that giveth them light , and also that serveth for deliverance of smoke . 
And the heling of their houses and the walls and the doors be all of wood . 
And when they go to war , they lead their houses with them upon chariots , as men do tents or pavilions . 
And they make their fire in the midst of their houses . 
And they have great multitude of all manner of beasts , save only of swine , for they bring none forth . 
And they believe well one God that made and formed all things . 
And natheles yet have they idols of gold and silver , and of tree and of cloth . 
And to those idols they offer always their first milk of their beasts , and also of their meats and of their drinks before they eat . 
And they offer often times horses and beasts . 
And they clepe the God of kind YROGA . 
And their emperor also , what name that ever he have , they put evermore thereto , Chan . 
And when I was there , their emperor had to name Thiaut , so that he was clept Thiaut Chan . 
And his eldest son was clept Tossue and when he shall be emperor , he shall be clept Tossue Chan . 
The folk of that country begin all their things in the new moon , and they worship much the moon and the sun and often time kneel against them . 
And all the folk of the country ride commonly without spurs , but they bear always a little whip in their hands for to chace with their horses . 
And the most sin that any man may do is to piss in their houses that they dwell in , and whoso that may be found with that sin sikerly they slay him . 
And of everych of these sins it behoveth them to be shriven of their priests , and to pay great sum of silver for their penance . 
And it behoveth also , that the place that men have pissed in be hallowed again , and else dare no man enter therein . 
And when they have paid their penance , men make them pass through a fire or through two , for to cleanse them of their sins . 
And also if any man or woman be taken in avoutry or fornication , anon they slay him . 
And who that stealeth anything , anon they slay him . 
Men of that country be all good archers and shoot right well , both men and women , as well on horse back , pricking , as on foot , running . 
And all the women wear breeches , as well as men . 
All the folk of that country be full obeissant to their sovereigns ne they fight not , ne chide not one with another . 
And there be neither thieves ne robbers in that country . 
And every man worshippeth other but no man there doth no reverence to no strangers , but if they be great princes . 
And they eat all the beasts without and within , without casting away of anything , save only the filth . 
And they eat but little bread , but if it be in courts of great lords . 
And they have not in many places , neither pease ne beans ne none other pottages but the broth of the flesh . 
For little eat they anything but flesh and the broth . 
And when they have eaten , they put their dishes unwashen into the pot or cauldron with remnant of the flesh and of the broth till they will eat again . 
And the rich men drink milk of mares or of camels or of asses or of other beasts . 
And they will be lightly drunken of milk and of another drink that is made of honey and of water sodden together for in that country is neither wine ne ale . 
They live full wretchedly , and they eat but once in the day , and that but little , neither in courts ne in other places . 
And in sooth , one man alone in this country will eat more in a day than one of them will eat in three days . 
And if any strange messenger come there to a lord , men make him to eat but once a day , and that full little . 
And when they war , they war full wisely and always do their business , to destroy their enemies . 
Every man there beareth two bows or three , and of arrows great plenty , and a great axe . 
And the gentles have short spears and large and full trenchant on that one side . 
And they have plates and helms made of quyrboylle , and their horses covertures of the same . 
And whoso fleeth from the battle they slay him . 
And after that they be yielden , anon they slay them all and cut off their ears and souse them in vinegar , and thereof they make great service for lords . 
All their lust and all their imagination is for to put all lands under their subjection . 
And therefore they suffer that folk of all laws may peaceably dwell amongst them . 
And ye shall understand that it is great dread for to pursue the Tartars if they flee in battle . 
For in fleeing they shoot behind them and slay both men and horses . 
And when they will fight they will shock them together in a plump that if there be , men , men shall not ween that there be scant , . 
And they can well win land of strangers , but they cannot keep it for they have greater lust to lie in tents without than for to lie in castle or in towns . 
And they prize nothing the wit of other nations . 
And amongst them oil of olive is full dear , for they hold it for full noble medicine . 
And all the Tartars have small eyen and little of beard , and not thick haired but shear . 
And they be false and traitors and they last nought that they behote . 
They be full hardy folk , and much pain and woe may suffer and disease , more than any other folk , for they be taught thereto in their own country of youth . 
And therefore they spend as who saith , right nought . 
And when any man shall die , men set a spear beside him . 
And when he draweth towards the death , every man fleeth out of the house till he be dead . 
And after that they bury him in the fields . 
And when the emperor dieth , men set him in a chair in midst the place of his tent . 
And men set a table before him clean , covered with a cloth , and thereupon flesh and diverse viands and a cup full of mare's milk . 
And men put a mare beside him with her foal , and an horse saddled and bridled . 
And they lay upon the horse gold and silver , great quantity . 
And they put about him great plenty of straw . 
And then men make a great pit and a large , and with the tent and all these other things they put him in earth . 
For they trow that after their death they shall be eating and drinking in that other world , and solacing them with their wives , as they did here . 
And after time that the emperor is thus interred no man shall be so hardy to speak of him before his friends . 
And then they say that he is ravished into another world , where he is a greater lord than he was here . 
And then , after the death of the emperor , the seven lineages assemble them together , and choose his eldest son , or the next after him of his blood . 
And thus they say to him we will and we pray and ordain that ye be our lord and our emperor . 
And they answer all with one voice , Whatsoever ye command , it shall be done . 
Then saith the emperor , Now understand well , that my word from henceforth is sharp and biting as a sword . 
After , men set him upon a black steed and so men bring him to a chair full richly arrayed , and there they crown him . 
And then all the cities and good towns send him rich presents . 
The kingdom of Cathay marcheth toward the west unto the kingdom of Tharse , the which was one of the kings that came to present our Lord in Bethlehem . 
And they that be of the lineage of that king are some Christian . 
In Tharse they eat no flesh , ne they drink no wine . 
In the country of Turkestan be but few good cities but the best city of that land hight Octorar . 
And after , on this half , is the kingdom of Khorasan , that is a good land and a plenteous , without wine . 
And it hath a desert toward the east that lasteth more than an hundred journeys . 
And the best city of that country is clept Khorasan , and of that city beareth the country his name . 
The folk of that country be hardy warriors . 
And on this half is the kingdom of Comania , whereof the Comanians that dwelled in Greece sometime were chased out . 
This is one of the greatest kingdoms of the world , but it is not all inhabited . 
In that country is but little arboury ne trees that bear fruit ne other . 
They lie in tents and they burn the dung of beasts for default of wood . 
This kingdom descendeth on this half toward us and toward Prussia and toward Russia . 
And through that country runneth the river of Ethille that is one of the greatest rivers of the world . 
And between that river and the great sea Ocean , that they clepe the Sea Maure , lie all these realms . 
There is full strait and dangerous passage for to go toward Ind . 
And therefore King Alexander let make there a strong city , that men clepe Alexandria , for to keep the country that no man should pass without his leave . 
And now men clepe that city , the Gate of Hell . 
And the principal city of Comania is clept Sarak , that is one of the three ways for to go into Ind . 
But by that way , ne may not pass no great multitude of people , but if it be in winter . 
And that passage men clepe the Derbent . 
The tother way is for to go from the city of Turkestan by Persia , and by that way be many journeys by desert . 
And the third way is that cometh from Comania and then to go by the Great Sea and by the kingdom of Abchaz . 
Wherefore his power and his lordship is full great and full mighty . 
And , therefore , that after Ind and after Cathay the Emperor of Persia is the greatest lord , therefore , I shall tell you of the kingdom of Persia . 
And on another side it stretcheth toward the Septentrion unto the sea of Caspian and also toward the south unto the desert of Ind . 
And this country is good and plain and full of people . 
And there be many good cities . 
But the two principal cities be these , Boyturra , and Seornergant , that some men clepe Sormagant . 
That is also a good land and a plenteous , and it hath three great principal cities Messabor , Saphon , and Sarmassan . 
And then after is Armenia , in the which were wont to be four kingdoms that is a noble country and full of goods . 
And it beginneth at Persia and stretcheth toward the west in length unto Turkey . 
And in largeness it dureth to the city of Alexandria , that now is clept the Gate of Hell , that I spake of before , under the kingdom of Media . 
In this Armenia be full many good cities , but Taurizo is most of name . 
In that kingdom of Media there be many great hills and little of plain earth . 
There dwell Saracens and another manner of folk , that men clepe Cordynes . 
The best two cities of that kingdom be Sarras and Karemen . 
After that is the kingdom of Georgia , that beginneth toward the east to the great mountain that is clept Abzor , where that dwell many diverse folk of diverse nations . 
And men clepe the country Alamo . 
This kingdom stretcheth him towards Turkey and toward the Great Sea , and toward the south it marcheth to the great Armenia . 
And there be two kingdoms in that country that one is the kingdom of Georgia , and that other is the kingdom of Abchaz . 
And always in that country be two kings and they be both Christian . 
But the king of Georgia is in subjection to the great Chan . 
In that kingdom of Abchaz is a great marvel . 
And , natheles , they of the country say , that some times men hear voice of folk , and horses neighing , and cocks crowing . 
And men wit well , that men dwell there , but they know not what men . 
And they say , that the darkness befell by miracle of God . 
And then in that country dwelled many good Christian men , the which that left their goods and would have fled into Greece . 
And when they were in a plain that hight Megon , anon this cursed emperor met with them with his host for to have slain them and hewn them to pieces . 
And anon the Christian men kneeled to the ground , and made their prayers to God to succour them . 
And anon a great thick cloud came and covered the emperor and all his host . 
Wherefore we may well say with David , A DOMINO FACTUM EST ISTUD EST MIRABILE IN OCULIS NOSTRIS . 
And that was a great miracle , that God made for them . 
Wherefore methinketh that Christian men should be more devout to serve our Lord God than any other men of any other sect . 
For without any dread , ne were not cursedness and sin of Christian men , they should be lords of all the world . 
For the banner of Jesu Christ is always displayed , and ready on all sides to the help of his true loving servants . 
So that we may see apertly that if we will be good men , no enemy may not endure against us . 
And wit well , that in the kingdoms of Georgia , of Abchaz and of the little Armenia be good Christian men and devout . 
For they shrive them and housel them evermore once or twice in the week . 
They keep that commandment , but we ne keep it not . 
Also after , on this half , is Turkey , that marcheth to the great Armenia . 
And there be many provinces , as Cappadocia , Saure , Brique , Quesiton , Pytan , and Gemethe . 
And in everych of these be many good cities . 
This Turkey stretcheth unto the city of Sachala that sitteth upon the sea of Greece , and so it marcheth to Syria . 
Syria is a great country and a good , as I have told you before . 
In Chaldea is a plain country , and few hills and few rivers . 
This is a good country and a plain , but it hath few rivers . 
It hath but two mountains in that country , of the which one hight Symar and that other Lyson . 
And this land marcheth to the kingdom of Chaldea . 
After is Moretane , that dureth from the mountains of Ethiopia unto Lybia the high . 
And that country lieth along from the sea ocean toward the south and toward the north it marcheth to Nubia and to the high Lybia . 
And it marcheth from the lands above said to the deserts of Egypt , and that is the Egypt that I have spoken of before . 
And after is Lybia the high and Lybia the low , that descendeth down low toward the great sea of Spain , in the which country be many kingdoms and many diverse folk . 
Now I have devised you many countries on this half the kingdom of Cathay , of the which many be obeissant to the great Chan . 
And there groweth a manner of fruit , as though it were gourds . 
And men eat both the fruit and the beast . 
And that is a great marvel . 
Of that fruit I have eaten , although it were wonderful , but that I know well that God is marvellous in his works . 
And , natheles , I told them of as great a marvel to them , that is amongst us , and that was of the Bernakes . 
And hereof had they as great marvel , that some of them trowed it were an impossible thing to be . 
And there be vines that bear so great grapes , that a strong man should have enough to do for to bear one cluster with all the grapes . 
In that same region be the mountains of Caspian that men crepe Uber in the country . 
Between those mountains the Jews of ten lineages be enclosed , that men clepe Goth and Magoth and they may not go out on no side . 
There were enclosed twenty two kings with their people , that dwelled between the mountains of Scythia . 
There King Alexander chased them between those mountains , and there he thought for to enclose them through work of his men . 
But when he saw that he might not do it , ne bring it to an end , he prayed to God of nature that he would perform that that he had begun . 
And also ye shall understand , that the Jews have no proper land of their own for to dwell in , in all the world , but only that land between the mountains . 
And often it hath befallen , that some of the Jews have gone up the mountains and avaled down to the valleys . 
But great number of folk ne may not do so , for the mountains be so high and so straight up , that they must abide there , maugre their might . 
For they may not go out , but by a little issue that was made by strength of men , and it lasteth well a four great mile . 
And after , is there yet a land all desert , where men may find no water , neither for digging ne for none other thing . 
And that strait passage men clepe in that country Clyron . 
And that is the passage that the Queen of Amazonia maketh to be kept . 
And though it happen some of them by fortune to go out , they can no manner of language but Hebrew , so that they cannot speak to the people . 
And yet , natheles , men say they shall go out in the time of anti Christ , and that they shall make great slaughter of Christian men . 
And if that you will wit how that they shall find their way , after that I have heard say I shall tell you . 
And when they see the fox , they shall have great marvel of him , because that they saw never such a beast . 
For of all other beasts they have enclosed amongst them , save only the fox . 
And then they shall chase him and pursue him so strait , till that he come to the same place that he came from . 
And those gates they shall break , and so go out by finding of that issue . 
From that land go men toward the land of Bacharia , where be full evil folk and full cruel . 
In that land be trees that bear wool , as though it were of sheep , whereof men make clothes and all things that may be made of wool . 
In that country be many hippotaynes that dwell some time in the water and sometime on the land . 
And they be half man and half horse , as I have said before . 
And they eat men when they may take them . 
And there be rivers of waters that be full bitter , three sithes more than is the water of the sea . 
In that country be many griffins , more plenty than in any other country . 
Some men say that they have the body upward as an eagle and beneath as a lion and truly they say sooth , that they be of that shape . 
And of their ribs and of the pens of their wings , men make bows , full strong , to shoot with arrows and quarrels . 
From thence go men by many journeys through the land of Prester John , the great Emperor of Ind . 
And men clepe his realm the isle of Pentexoire . 
CHAPTER XXX OF THE ROYAL ESTATE OF PRESTER JOHN . 
For all the country of Ind is devised in isles for the great floods that come from Paradise , that depart all the land in many parts . 
And also in the sea he hath full many isles . 
And the best city in the Isle of Pentexoire is Nyse , that is a full royal city and a noble , and full rich . 
This Prester John hath under him many kings and many isles and many diverse folk of diverse conditions . 
And this land is full good and rich , but not so rich as is the land of the great Chan . 
For the merchants come not thither so commonly for to buy merchandises , as they do in the land of the great Chan , for it is too far to travel to . 
And therefore , albeit that men have greater cheap in the Isle of Prester John , natheles , men dread the long way and the great perils in the sea in those parts . 
For in many places of the sea be great rocks of stones of the adamant , that of his proper nature draweth iron to him . 
And therefore there pass no ships that have either bonds or nails of iron within them . 
And if there do , anon the rocks of the adamants draw them to them , that never they may go thence . 
I myself have seen afar in that sea , as though it had been a great isle full of tree , and buscaylle , full of thorns and briars , great plenty . 
And the shipmen told us , that all that was of ships that were drawn thither by the adamants , for the iron that was in them . 
And such rocks be in many places thereabout . 
And therefore dare not the merchants pass there , but if they know well the passages , or else that they have good lodesmen . 
And also they dread the long way . 
And therefore they go to Cathay , for it is more nigh . 
And yet is the land of Prester John more far by many dreadful journeys . 
And the merchants pass by the kingdom of Persia , and go to a city that is Clept Hermes , for Hermes the philosopher founded it . 
And after that they pass an arm of the sea , and then they go to another city that is clept Golbache . 
And there they find merchandises , and of popinjays , as great plenty as men find here of geese . 
And if they will pass further , they may go sikerly enough . 
In that country is but little wheat or barley , and therefore they eat rice and honey and milk and cheese and fruit . 
This Emperor Prester John taketh always to his wife the daughter of the great Chan and the great Chan also , in the same wise , the daughter of Prester John . 
For these two be the greatest lords under the firmament . 
This Emperor Prester John is Christian , and a great part of his country also . 
But yet , they have not all the articles of our faith as we have . 
They believe well in the Father , in the Son and in the Holy Ghost . 
And they be full devout and right true one to another . 
And they set not by no barretts , ne by cautels , nor of no deceits . 
And he hath under him seventy two provinces , and in every province is a king . 
And these kings have kings under them , and all be tributaries to Prester John . 
And he hath in his lordships many great marvels . 
And no man may pass that sea by navy , ne by no manner of craft , and therefore may no man know what land is beyond that sea . 
And a three journeys long from that sea be great mountains , out of the which goeth out a great flood that cometh out of Paradise . 
And that flome runneth , also , three days in the week and bringeth with him great stones and the rocks also therewith , and that great plenty . 
And anon , as they be entered into the Gravelly Sea , they be seen no more , but lost for evermore . 
And in those three days that that river runneth , no man dare enter into it but in the other days men dare enter well enough . 
Also beyond that flome , more upward to the deserts , is a great plain all gravelly , between the mountains . 
And after mid day , they decrease and enter again into the earth , so that at the going down of the sun they appear no more . 
And so they do , every day . 
And that is a great marvel . 
In that desert be many wild men , that be hideous to look on for they be horned , and they speak nought , but they grunt , as pigs . 
And there is also great plenty of wild hounds . 
And there be many popinjays , that they clepe psittakes their language . 
And they speak of their proper nature , and salute men that go through the deserts , and speak to them as apertly as though it were a man . 
And they that speak well have a large tongue , and have five toes upon a foot . 
And there be also of another manner , that have but three toes upon a foot , and they speak not , or but little , for they can not but cry . 
And this number of folk is without the principal host and without wings ordained for the battle . 
And he hath borne before him also a platter of gold full of earth , in token that his noblesse and his might and his flesh shall turn to earth . 
He dwelleth commonly in the city of Susa . 
And there is his principal palace , that is so rich and so noble , that no man will trow it by estimation , but he had seen it . 
And the principal gates of his palace be of precious stone that men clepe sardonyx , and the border and the bars be of ivory . 
And the windows of the halls and chambers be of crystal . 
And all these degrees be bordered with fine gold , with the tother precious stones , set with great pearls orient . 
And the sides of the siege of his throne be of emeralds , and bordered with gold full nobly , and dubbed with other precious stones and great pearls . 
And all the pillars in his chamber be of fine gold with precious stones , and with many carbuncles , that give great light upon the night to all people . 
And so they eat every day in his court , more than , persons , without goers and comers . 
But the , persons of his country , ne of the country of the great Chan , ne spend not so much good as do , of our country . 
This Emperor Prester John hath evermore seven kings with him to serve him , and they depart their service by certain months . 
And with these kings serve always seventy two dukes and three hundred and sixty earls . 
And all the days of the year , there eat in his household and in his court , twelve archbishops and twenty bishops . 
And the patriarch of Saint Thomas is there as is the pope here . 
And the archbishops and the bishops and the abbots in that country be all kings . 
And everych of these great lords know well enough the attendance of their service . 
In that isle is great plenty of goods . 
There was dwelling , sometime , a rich man and it is not long since and men clept him Gatholonabes . 
And he was full of cautels and of subtle deceits . 
And he had a full fair castle and a strong in a mountain , so strong and so noble , that no man could devise a fairer ne stronger . 
And he had let mure all the mountain about with a strong wall and a fair . 
And within those walls he had the fairest garden that any man might behold . 
And therein were trees bearing all manner of fruits , that any man could devise . 
And therein were also all manner virtuous herbs of good smell , and all other herbs also that bear fair flowers . 
And he had also in his garden all manner of fowls and of beasts that any man might think on , for to have play or sport to behold them . 
And all they were clothed in cloths of gold , full richly . 
And he said that those were angels . 
And he had made a conduit under earth , so that the three wells , at his list , one should run milk , another wine and another honey . 
And that place he clept Paradise . 
And then would he make them to drink of certain drink , whereof anon they should be drunk . 
And then would them think greater delight than they had before . 
And after that yet should he put them in a fairer paradise , where that they should see God of nature visibly , in his majesty and in his bliss . 
And thus , often time , he was revenged of his enemies by his subtle deceits and false cautels . 
The place of the wells and of the walls and of many other things be yet apertly seen , but the riches is voided clean . 
And it is not long gone , since that place was destroyed . 
CHAPTER XXXI OF THE DEVIL'S HEAD IN THE VALLEY PERILOUS . 
There is a vale between the mountains , that dureth nigh a four mile . 
And some men clepe it the Vale Enchanted , some clepe it the Vale of Devils , and some clepe it the Vale Perilous . 
This vale is all full of devils , and hath been always . 
And men say there , that it is one of the entries of hell . 
In that vale is great plenty of gold and silver . 
And from him cometh out smoke and stinking fire and so much abomination , that unnethe no man may there endure . 
But the good Christian men , that be stable in the faith , enter well without peril . 
For they will first shrive them and mark them with the token of the holy cross , so that the fiends ne have no power over them . 
And the most dread is , that God will take vengeance then of that that men have misdone against his will . 
And some of our fellows accorded to enter , and some not . 
So there were with us two worthy men , friars minors , that were of Lombardy , that said , that if any man would enter they would go in with us . 
And when they had said so , upon the gracious trust of God and of them , we let sing mass , and made every man to be shriven and houseled . 
And then we entered fourteen persons but at our going out we were but nine . 
And so we wist never , whether that our fellows were lost , or else turned again for dread . 
But we saw them never after and those were two men of Greece , and three of Spain . 
And our other fellows that would not go in with us , they went by another coast to be before us and so they were . 
And thus we passed that perilous vale , and found therein gold and silver , and precious stones and rich jewels , great plenty , both here and there , as us seemed . 
But whether that it was , as us seemed , I wot never . 
For I touched none , because that the devils be so subtle to make a thing to seem otherwise than it is , for to deceive mankind . 
And I marvelled much , that there were so many , and the bodies all whole without rotting . 
But I trow , that fiends made them seem to be so whole without rotting . 
But that might not be to mine advice that so many should have entered so newly , ne so many newly slain , with out stinking and rotting . 
And therefore were we the more devout a great deal . 
And yet we were cast down , and beaten down many times to the hard earth by winds and thunders and tempests . 
But evermore God of his grace holp us . 
And so we passed that perilous vale without peril and without encumbrance , thanked be Almighty God . 
After this , beyond the vale , is a great isle , where the folk be great giants of twenty eight foot long , or of thirty foot long . 
And they have no clothing but of skins of beasts that they hang upon them . 
And they eat no bread , but all raw flesh and they drink milk of beasts , for they have plenty of all bestial . 
And they have no houses to lie in . 
And they eat more gladly man's flesh than any other flesh . 
Into that isle dare no man gladly enter . 
And if they see a ship and men therein , anon they enter into the sea for to take them . 
And among those giants be sheep as great as oxen here , and they bear great wool and rough . 
Of the sheep I have seen many times . 
Another isle is there toward the north , in the sea Ocean , where that be full cruel and full evil women of nature . 
And they have precious stones in their eyen . 
And they be of that kind , that if they behold any man with wrath , they slay him anon with the beholding , as doth the basilisk . 
And there be certain men in every town that serve of none other thing and they clepe them cadeberiz , that is to say , the fools of wanhope . 
But after the first night that they be lain by , they keep them so straitly that they be not so hardy to speak with no man . 
After that is another isle where that women make great sorrow when their children be y born . 
And when they die , they make great feast and great joy and revel , and then they cast them into a great fire burning . 
And those that love well their husbands , if their husbands be dead , they cast them also in the fire with their children , and burn them . 
And the cause why that they weep , when their children be born is this for when they come into this world , they come to labour , sorrow and heaviness . 
And the king may not doom no man to death without assent of his barons and other men wise of counsel , and that all the court accord thereto . 
And if the king himself do any homicide or any crime , as to slay a man , or any such case , he shall die there for . 
They spare no man that hath trespassed , neither for love , ne for favour ne for riches , ne for noblesse but that he shall have after that he hath done . 
Beyond that isle is another isle , where is great multitude of folk . 
In that country they take their daughters and their sisters to their wives , and their other kinswomen . 
And if any man say to them , that they nourish other men's children , they answer that so do over men theirs . 
In that country and by all Ind be great plenty of cockodrills , that is a manner of a long serpent , as I have said before . 
And in the night they dwell in the water , and on the day upon the land , in rocks and in caves . 
And they eat no meat in all the winter , but they lie as in a dream , as do the serpents . 
These serpents slay men , and they eat them weeping and when they eat they move the over jaw , and not the nether jaw , and they have no tongue . 
In that country and in many other beyond that , and also in many on this half , men put in work the seed of cotton , and they sow it every year . 
And then groweth it in small trees , that bear cotton . 
And so do men every year , so that there is plenty of cotton at all times . 
Item in this isle and in many other , there is a manner of wood , hard and strong . 
Whoso covereth the coals of that wood under the ashes thereof , the coals will dwell and abide all quick , a year or more . 
And that tree hath many leaves , as the juniper hath . 
And there be also many trees , that of nature they will never burn , ne rot in no manner . 
And there be nut trees , that bear nuts as great as a man's head . 
There also be many beasts , that be clept orafles . 
In Arabia , they be clept gerfaunts . 
And there be also wild swine of many colours , as great as be oxen in our country , and they be all spotted , as be young fawns . 
And there be also urchins , as great as wild swine here we clepe them Porcz de Spine . 
And there be lions all white , great and mighty . 
And there be also mice as great as hounds , and yellow mice as great as ravens . 
And there be geese , all red , three sithes more great than ours here , and they have the head , the neck and the breast all black . 
And many other diverse beasts be in those countries , and elsewhere there about , and many diverse birds also , of the which it were too long for to tell you . 
And therefore , I pass over at this time . 
CHAPTER XXXII OF THE GOODNESS OF THE FOLK OF THE ISLE OF BRAGMAN . 
For they be not proud , ne covetous , ne envious , ne wrathful , ne gluttons , ne lecherous . 
And men clepe that isle the Isle of Bragman , and some men clepe it the Land of Faith . 
And through that land runneth a great river that is clept Thebe . 
In that isle , is no thief , ne murderer , ne common woman , ne poor beggar , ne never was man slain in that country . 
And they be so chaste , and lead so good life , as that they were religious men , and they fast all days . 
Wherefore , it seemeth well , that God loveth them and is pleased with their creaunce for their good deeds . 
They believe well in God , that made all things , and him they worship . 
And they prize none earthly riches and so they be all rightfull . 
And they live full ordinately , and so soberly in meat and drink , that they live right long . 
And the most part of them die without sickness , when nature faileth them , for eld . 
And it befell in King Alexander's time , that he purposed him to conquer that isle and to make them to hold of him . 
For we have no riches , ne none we covet , and all the goods of our country be in common . 
Our meat , that we sustain withal our bodies , is our riches . 
And , instead of treasure of gold and silver , we make our treasure of accord and peace , and for to love every man other . 
And for to apparel with our bodies we use a silly little clout for to wrap in our carrion . 
Our wives ne be not arrayed for to make no man pleasance , but only convenable array for to eschew folly . 
When men pain them to array the body for to make it seem fairer than God made it , they do great sin . 
For man should not devise ne ask greater beauty , than God hath ordained man to be at his birth . 
The earth ministereth to us two things , our livelihood , that cometh of the earth that we live by , and our sepulture after our death . 
We have been in perpetual peace till now , that thou come to disinherit us . 
For justice ne hath not among us no place , for we do to no man otherwise than we desire that men do to us . 
So that righteousness ne vengeance have nought to do among us . 
So that nothing thou may take from us , but our good peace , that always hath dured among us . 
And when King Alexander had read these letters , he thought that he should do great sin , for to trouble them . 
And so he let them alone . 
Another isle there is , that men clepe Oxidrate , and another isle , that men clepe Gynosophe , where there is also good folk , and full of good faith . 
And they hold , for the most part , the good conditions and customs and good manners , as men of the country abovesaid but they go all naked . 
Into that isle entered King Alexander , to see the manner . 
And Alexander answered them that it was not in his power to do it , because he was mortal , as they were . 
And right as it hath been to other men before thee , right so it shall be to other after thee . 
And from hence shalt thou bear nothing but as thou were born naked , right so all naked shall thy body be turned into earth that thou were made of . 
Wherefore thou shouldest think and impress it in thy mind , that nothing is immortal , but only God , that made the thing . 
By the which answer Alexander was greatly astonished and abashed , and all confused and departed from them . 
And therefore said our Lord by the mouth of Hosea the prophet , PONAM EIS MULTIPLICES LEGES MEAS and also in another place , QUI TOTUM ORBEM SUBDIT SUIS LEGIBUS . 
And Saint Peter answered I eat never , quoth he , of unclean beasts . 
And then said the angel , NON DICAS IMMUNDA , QUE DEUS MUNDAVIT . 
And that was in token that no man should have in despite none earthly man for their diverse laws , for we know not whom God loveth , ne whom God hateth . 
And therefore say I of this folk , that be so true and so faithful , that God loveth them . 
For he hath amongst them many of the prophets , and alway hath had . 
And they believe well it , the Incarnation , and that full perfectly , but they know not the manner , how he suffered his passion and death for us . 
And beyond these isles there is another isle that is clept Pytan . 
The folk of that country ne till not , ne labour not the earth , for they eat no manner thing . 
And they be of good colour and of fair shape , after their greatness . 
But the small be as dwarfs , but not so little as be the Pigmies . 
These men live by the smell of wild apples . 
And when they go any far way , they bear the apples with them for if they had lost the savour of the apples , they should die anon . 
They ne be not full reasonable , but they be simple and bestial . 
After that is another isle , where the folk be all skinned rough hair , as a rough beast , save only the face and the palm of the hand . 
These folk go as well under the water of the sea , as they do above the land all dry . 
And they eat both flesh and fish all raw . 
In this isle is a great river that is well a two mile and an half of breadth that is clept Beaumare . 
For men say that balm groweth there in great plenty and nowhere else , save only at Babylon , as I have told you before . 
We would have gone toward the trees full gladly if we had might . 
I trow that ye know well enough , and have heard say , wherefore this emperor is clept Prester John . 
But , natheles , for them that know not , I shall say you the cause . 
It was sometime an emperor there , that was a worthy and a full noble prince , that had Christian knights in his company , as he hath that is now . 
So it befell , that he had great list for to see the service in the church among Christian men . 
And then dured Christendom beyond the sea , all Turkey , Syria , Tartary , Jerusalem , Palestine , Arabia , Aleppo and all the land of Egypt . 
And so it befell that this emperor came with a Christian knight with him into a church in Egypt . 
And it was the Saturday in Whitsun week . 
And the bishop made orders . 
And he beheld , and listened the service full tentively . 
And he asked the Christian knight what men of degree they should be that the prelate had before him . 
And the knight answered and said that they should be priests . 
And so ever more sithens , he is clept Prester John . 
But we have many more additions that divers popes have made , that they ne know not of . 
CHAPTER XXXIII OF THE HILLS OF GOLD THAT PISMIRES KEEP . 
And the king thereof is full rich , and is under the obeissance of Prester John . 
And always there they make their king by election . 
In that isle be two summers and two winters , and men harvest the corn twice a year . 
And in all the seasons of the year be the gardens flourished . 
There dwell good folk and reasonable , and many Christian men amongst them , that be so rich that they wit not what to do with their goods . 
And men may see the bottom of the sea in many places , for it is not full deep . 
Beside that isle , toward the east , be two other isles . 
And men clepe that one Orille , and that other Argyte , of the which all the land is mine of gold and silver . 
And those isles be right where that the Red Sea departeth from the sea ocean . 
And in those isles men see there no stars so clearly as in other places . 
For there appear no stars , but only one clear star that men clepe Canapos . 
And there is not the moon seen in all the lunation , save only the second quarter . 
In the isle also of this Taprobane be great hills of gold , that pismires keep full diligently . 
And they fine the pured gold , and cast away the un pured . 
And these pismires be great as hounds , so that no man dare come to those hills for the pismires would assail them and devour them anon . 
So that no man may get of that gold , but by great sleight . 
And therefore when it is great heat , the pismires rest them in the earth , from prime of the day into noon . 
And in other times , when it is not so hot , and that the pismires ne rest them not in the earth , then they get gold by this subtlety . 
They take mares that have young colts or foals , and lay upon the mares void vessels made there for and they be all open above , and hanging low to the earth . 
And then they send forth those mares for to pasture about those hills , and with hold the foals with them at home . 
And when that the folk suppose that the vessels be full , they put forth anon the young foals , and make them to neigh after their dams . 
And then anon the mares return towards their foals with their charges of gold . 
And then men discharges them , and get gold enough by this subtlety . 
For the pismires will suffer beasts to go and pasture amongst them , but no man in no wise . 
And beyond the land and the isles and the deserts of Prester John's lordship , in going straight toward the east , men find nothing but mountains and rocks , full great . 
And there is the dark region , where no man may see , neither by day ne by night , as they of the country say . 
But that is not that east that we clepe our east , on this half , where the sun riseth to us . 
For our Lord God made the earth all round in the mid place of the firmament . 
Of Paradise ne can I not speak properly . 
For I was not there . 
And also I was not worthy . 
But as I have heard say of wise men beyond , I shall tell you with good will . 
Paradise terrestrial , as wise men say , is the highest place of earth , that is in all the world . 
And this Paradise is enclosed all about with a wall , and men wit not whereof it is for the walls be covered all over with moss , as it seemeth . 
And it seemeth not that the wall is stone of nature , ne of none other thing that the wall is . 
And in the most high place of Paradise , even in the middle place , is a well that casteth out the four floods that run by divers lands . 
And that other river is clept Nilus or Gison , that goeth by Ethiopia and after by Egypt . 
And that other is clept Tigris , that runneth by Assyria and by Armenia the great . 
And that other is clept Euphrates , that runneth also by Media and Armenia and by Persia . 
The first river is clept Pison , that is to say in their language Assembly for many other rivers meet them there , and go into that river . 
And some men clepe it Ganges , for a king that was in Ind , that hight Gangeres , and that it ran throughout his land . 
And that water is in some place clear , and in some place troubled , in some place hot , and in some place cold . 
The fourth river is clept Euphrates , that is to say , well bearing for there grow many goods upon that river , as corns , fruits and other goods enough plenty . 
And ye shall understand that no man that is mortal ne may not approach to that Paradise . 
And by the rivers may no man go . 
Many great lords have assayed with great will , many times , for to pass by those rivers towards Paradise , with full great companies . 
But they might not speed in their voyage . 
And many died for weariness of rowing against those strong waves . 
And many of them became blind , and many deaf , for the noise of the water . 
And some were perished and lost within the waves . 
CHAPTER XXXIV OF THE CUSTOMS OF KINGS AND OTHER THAT DWELL IN THE ISLES COASTING TO PRESTER JOHN'S LAND . 
And therefore men return from those isles abovesaid by other isles , coasting from the land of Prester John . 
And then come men in returning to an isle that is clept Casson . 
And that isle hath well sixty journeys in length , and more than fifty in breadth . 
This is the best isle and the best kingdom that is in all those parts , out taken Cathay . 
And if the merchants used as much that country as they do Cathay , it would be better than Cathay in a short while . 
In that isle is great plenty of all goods for to live with , and of all manner of spices . 
And there be great forests of chestnuts . 
The king of that isle is full rich and full mighty , and , natheles , he holds his land of the great Chan , and is obeissant to him . 
For it is one of the twelve provinces that the great Chan hath under him without his proper land , and without other less isles that he hath for he hath full many . 
From that kingdom come men , in returning , to another isle that is clept Rybothe , and it is also under the great Chan . 
That is a full good country , and full plenteous of all goods and of wines and fruit and all other riches . 
And the folk of that country have no houses , but they dwell and lie all under tents made of black fern , by all the country . 
And the principal city and the most royal is all walled with black stone and white . 
And all the streets also be pathed of the same stones . 
In that city is no man so hardy to shed blood of any man , ne of no beast , for the reverence of an idol that is worshipped there . 
And in that isle dwelleth the pope of their law , that they clepe Lobassy . 
This Lobassy giveth all the benefices , and all other dignities and all other things that belong to the idol . 
And all those that hold anything of their churches , religious and other , obey to him , as men do here to the Pope of Rome . 
And then men bear the dead body unto a great hill with great joy and solemnity . 
And then he taketh the head to the son . 
And then the son and his other kin sing and say many orisons . 
And then the priests and the religious men smite all the body of the dead man in pieces . 
And then they say certain orisons . 
And after that , as priests amongst us sing for the dead , SUBVENITE SANCTI DEI , ETC . 
And then the son bringeth home with him all his kin , and his friends , and all the others to his house , and maketh them a great feast . 
And that cup the son shall keep to drink of all his life time , in remembrance of his father . 
For he hath , every year , of annual rent , horses charged with corn of diverse grains and of rice . 
And so he leadeth a full noble life and a delicate , after the custom of the country . 
And when he is at table , they bring him his meat at every time , five and five together and in bringing their service they sing a song . 
For he hath so long nails , that he may take nothing , ne handle nothing . 
For the noblesse of that country is to have long nails , and to make them grow always to be as long as men may . 
And there be many in that country , that have their nails so long , that they environ all the hand . 
And that is a great noblesse . 
And the noblesse of the women is for to have small feet and little . 
And therefore anon as they be born , they let bind their feet so strait , that they may not grow half as nature would . 
And this is the noblesse of the women there to have small feet and little . 
And always these damosels , that I spake of before , sing all the time that this rich man eateth . 
And when that he eateth no more of his first course , then other five and five of fair damsels bring him his second course , always singing as they did before . 
And so they do continually every day to the end of his meat . 
And in this manner he leadeth his life . 
And so did they before him , that were his ancestors . 
And so shall they that come after him , without doing of any deeds of arms , but live evermore thus in ease , as a . 
swine that is fed in sty for to be made fat . 
He hath a full fair palace and full rich , where that he dwelleth in , of the which the walls be , in circuit , two mile . 
And he hath within many fair gardens , and many fair halls and chambers and the pavement of his halls and chambers be of gold and silver . 
And in the mid place of one of his gardens is a little mountain , where there is a little meadow . 
And in that meadow is a little toothill with towers and pinnacles , all of gold . 
And in that little toothill will he sit often time , for to take the air and to disport him . 
For the place is made for nothing else , but only for his disport . 
From that country men come by the land of the great Chan also , that I have spoken of before . 
, but only that they can devise by their natural wit . 
For they have no knowledge of the Son , ne of the Holy Ghost . 
But they can all speak of the Bible , and namely of Genesis , of the prophet's saws and of the books of Moses . 
And of simulacres and of idols , they say , that there be no folk , but that they have simulacres . 
They say also , that the angels of God speak to them in those idols , and that they do many great miracles . 
And they say sooth , that there is an angel within them . 
For there be two manner of angels , a good and an evil , as the Greeks say , Cacho and Calo . 
This Cacho is the wicked angel , and Calo is the good angel . 
But the tother is not the good angel , but the wicked angel that is within the idols to deceive them and for to maintain them in their error . 
There be many other divers countries and many other marvels beyond , that I have not seen . 
Wherefore , of them I cannot speak properly to tell you the manner of them . 
For men say always , that new things and new tidings be pleasant to hear . 
And our holy father , of his special grace , remitted my book to be examined and proved by the advice of his said counsel . 
is affirmed and proved by our holy father , in manner and form as I have said . 
, now I am come home , maugre myself , to rest , for gouts artetykes that me distrain , that define the end of my labour against my will . 
Wherefore , I pray to all the readers and hearers of this book , if it please them , that they would pray to God for me and I shall pray for them . 
