Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation . 
The most macabre and imaginative of plotters would hesitate before linking his morbid fancies with the unquestioned and tragic facts which reinforce the statement . 
This world of ours appears to be separated by a slight and precarious margin of safety from a most singular and unexpected danger . 
The Joyce Armstrong Fragment was found in the field which is called Lower Haycock , lying one mile to the westward of the village of Withyham , upon the Kent and Sussex border . 
A few paces farther on he picked up a pair of broken binocular glasses . 
These he collected , but some , including the first , were never recovered , and leave a deplorable hiatus in this all important statement . 
The note book was taken by the labourer to his master , who in turn showed it to Dr . 
J. H. Atherton , of Hartfield . 
This gentleman at once recognized the need for an expert examination , and the manuscript was forwarded to the Aero Club in London , where it now lies . 
The first two pages of the manuscript are missing . 
There is also one torn away at the end of the narrative , though none of these affect the general coherence of the story . 
And now a word as to the personality of the author of this epoch making statement . 
Joyce Armstrong , according to the few friends who really knew something of the man , was a poet and a dreamer , as well as a mechanic and an inventor . 
He was a man of considerable wealth , much of which he had spent in the pursuit of his aeronautical hobby . 
He had four private aeroplanes in his hangars near Devizes , and is said to have made no fewer than one hundred and seventy ascents in the course of last year . 
He was a retiring man with dark moods , in which he would avoid the society of his fellows . 
Captain Dangerfield , who knew him better than anyone , says that there were times when his eccentricity threatened to develop into something more serious . 
His habit of carrying a shot gun with him in his aeroplane was one manifestation of it . 
Another was the morbid effect which the fall of Lieutenant Myrtle had upon his mind . 
Myrtle , who was attempting the height record , fell from an altitude of something over thirty thousand feet . 
Horrible to narrate , his head was entirely obliterated , though his body and limbs preserved their configuration . 
It is worth remarking that after his own complete disappearance it was found that his private affairs were arranged with a precision which may show that he had a strong premonition of disaster . 
I did not actually say what was in my thoughts , but I got so near to it that if they had any corresponding idea they could not have failed to express it . 
But then they are two empty , vainglorious fellows with no thought beyond seeing their silly names in the newspaper . 
It is interesting to note that neither of them had ever been much beyond the twenty thousand foot level . 
Of course , men have been higher than this both in balloons and in the ascent of mountains . 
It must be well above that point that the aeroplane enters the danger zone always presuming that my premonitions are correct . 
Aeroplaning has been with us now for more than twenty years , and one might well ask Why should this peril be only revealing itself in our day ? The answer is obvious . 
In the old days of weak engines , when a hundred horse power Gnome or Green was considered ample for every need , the flights were very restricted . 
Now that three hundred horse power is the rule rather than the exception , visits to the upper layers have become easier and more common . 
Our standard now has been immeasurably raised , and there are twenty high flights for one in former years . 
Many of them have been undertaken with impunity . 
The thirty thousand foot level has been reached time after time with no discomfort beyond cold and asthma . 
What does this prove ? A visitor might descend upon this planet a thousand times and never see a tiger . 
Yet tigers exist , and if he chanced to come down into a jungle he might be devoured . 
There are jungles of the upper air , and there are worse things than tigers which inhabit them . 
I believe in time they will map these jungles accurately out . 
Even at the present moment I could name two of them . 
One of them lies over the Pau Biarritz district of France . 
Another is just over my head as I write here in my house in Wiltshire . 
I rather think there is a third in the Homburg Wiesbaden district . 
It was the disappearance of the airmen that first set me thinking . 
Of course , everyone said that they had fallen into the sea , but that did not satisfy me at all . 
First , there was Verrier in France his machine was found near Bayonne , but they never got his body . 
There was the case of Baxter also , who vanished , though his engine and some of the iron fixings were found in a wood in Leicestershire . 
In that case , Dr . 
That was the last seen of Baxter . 
There was a correspondence in the papers , but it never led to anything . 
There were several other similar cases , and then there was the death of Hay Connor . 
He never got off his machine and died in his pilot's seat . 
Died of what ? Heart disease , said the doctors . 
Rubbish ! Hay Connor's heart was as sound as mine is . 
What did Venables say ? Venables was the only man who was at his side when he died . 
He said that he was shivering and looked like a man who had been badly scared . 
Died of fright , said Venables , but could not imagine what he was frightened about . 
Only said one word to Venables , which sounded like Monstrous . 
They could make nothing of that at the inquest . 
But I could make something of it . 
Monsters ! That was the last word of poor Harry Hay Connor . 
And he DID die of fright , just as Venables thought . 
And then there was Myrtle's head . 
And the grease upon his clothes all slimy with grease , said somebody at the inquest . 
Queer that nobody got thinking after that ! I did but , then , I had been thinking for a good long time . 
I've made three ascents how Dangerfield used to chaff me about my shot gun but I've never been high enough . 
Now , with this new , light Paul Veroner machine and its one hundred and seventy five Robur , I should easily touch the thirty thousand tomorrow . 
I'll have a shot at the record . 
Maybe I shall have a shot at something else as well . 
Of course , it's dangerous . 
If a fellow wants to avoid danger he had best keep out of flying altogether and subside finally into flannel slippers and a dressing gown . 
But I'll visit the air jungle tomorrow and if there's anything there I shall know it . 
If I return , I'll find myself a bit of a celebrity . 
If I don't this note book may explain what I am trying to do , and how I lost my life in doing it . 
But no drivel about accidents or mysteries , if YOU please . 
I chose my Paul Veroner monoplane for the job . 
There's nothing like a monoplane when real work is to be done . 
Beaumont found that out in very early days . 
For one thing it doesn't mind damp , and the weather looks as if we should be in the clouds all the time . 
It's a bonny little model and answers my hand like a tender mouthed horse . 
The engine is a ten cylinder rotary Robur working up to one hundred and seventy five . 
I took a shot gun with me and a dozen cartridges filled with buck shot . 
You should have seen the face of Perkins , my old mechanic , when I directed him to put them in . 
I was dressed like an Arctic explorer , with two jerseys under my overalls , thick socks inside my padded boots , a storm cap with flaps , and my talc goggles . 
It was stifling outside the hangars , but I was going for the summit of the Himalayas , and had to dress for the part . 
Perkins knew there was something on and implored me to take him with me . 
Perhaps I should if I were using the biplane , but a monoplane is a one man show if you want to get the last foot of life out of it . 
Of course , I took an oxygen bag the man who goes for the altitude record without one will either be frozen or smothered or both . 
I had a good look at the planes , the rudder bar , and the elevating lever before I got in . 
Everything was in order so far as I could see . 
Then I switched on my engine and found that she was running sweetly . 
When they let her go she rose almost at once upon the lowest speed . 
It's all important to rise slowly and adapt yourself to the pressure as you go . 
It was a close , warm day for an English September , and there was the hush and heaviness of impending rain . 
Now and then there came sudden puffs of wind from the south west one of them so gusty and unexpected that it caught me napping and turned me half round for an instant . 
I remember the time when gusts and whirls and air pockets used to be things of danger before we learned to put an overmastering power into our engines . 
Just as I reached the cloud banks , with the altimeter marking three thousand , down came the rain . 
My word , how it poured ! It drummed upon my wings and lashed against my face , blurring my glasses so that I could hardly see . 
I got down on to a low speed , for it was painful to travel against it . 
As I got higher it became hail , and I had to turn tail to it . 
One of my cylinders was out of action a dirty plug , I should imagine , but still I was rising steadily with plenty of power . 
After a bit the trouble passed , whatever it was , and I heard the full , deep throated purr the ten singing as one . 
That's where the beauty of our modern silencers comes in . 
We can at last control our engines by ear . 
Down below me , all blurred and shadowed with rain , lay the vast expanse of Salisbury Plain . 
Half a dozen flying machines were doing hackwork at the thousand foot level , looking like little black swallows against the green background . 
I dare say they were wondering what I was doing up in cloud land . 
Suddenly a grey curtain drew across beneath me and the wet folds of vapours were swirling round my face . 
It was clammily cold and miserable . 
But I was above the hail storm , and that was something gained . 
The cloud was as dark and thick as a London fog . 
In my anxiety to get clear , I cocked her nose up until the automatic alarm bell rang , and I actually began to slide backwards . 
My sopped and dripping wings had made me heavier than I thought , but presently I was in lighter cloud , and soon had cleared the first layer . 
It is deadly lonely in these cloud spaces . 
Once a great flight of some small water birds went past me , flying very fast to the westwards . 
The quick whir of their wings and their musical cry were cheery to my ear . 
I fancy that they were teal , but I am a wretched zoologist . 
Now that we humans have become birds we must really learn to know our brethren by sight . 
The wind down beneath me whirled and swayed the broad cloud pain . 
Once a great eddy formed in it , a whirlpool of vapour , and through it , as down a funnel , I caught sight of the distant world . 
A large white biplane was passing at a vast depth beneath me . 
I fancy it was the morning mail service betwixt Bristol and London . 
Then the drift swirled inwards again and the great solitude was unbroken . 
Just after ten I touched the lower edge of the upper cloud stratum . 
It consisted of fine diaphanous vapour drifting swiftly from the westwards . 
The wind had been steadily rising all this time and it was now blowing a sharp breeze twenty eight an hour by my gauge . 
Already it was very cold , though my altimeter only marked nine thousand . 
The engines were working beautifully , and we went droning steadily upwards . 
It was a quarter past ten o'clock , and the barograph needle pointed to twelve thousand eight hundred . 
No wonder aviators are said to be a fearless race . 
With so many things to think of there is no time to trouble about oneself . 
About this time I noted how unreliable is the compass when above a certain height from earth . 
At fifteen thousand feet mine was pointing east and a point south . 
The sun and the wind gave me my true bearings . 
I had hoped to reach an eternal stillness in these high altitudes , but with every thousand feet of ascent the gale grew stronger . 
Yet I had always to turn again and tack up in the wind's eye , for it was not merely a height record that I was after . 
By all my calculations it was above little Wiltshire that my air jungle lay , and all my labour might be lost if I struck the outer layers at some farther point . 
I even cast loose the parachute behind me , and fastened its hook into the ring of my leathern belt , so as to be ready for the worst . 
Now was the time when a bit of scamped work by the mechanic is paid for by the life of the aeronaut . 
But she held together bravely . 
But suddenly I had a horrible and unprecedented experience . 
I have known before what it is to be in what our neighbours have called a tourbillon , but never on such a scale as this . 
That huge , sweeping river of wind of which I have spoken had , as it appears , whirlpools within it which were as monstrous as itself . 
Without a moment's warning I was dragged suddenly into the heart of one . 
I dropped like a stone , and lost nearly a thousand feet . 
It was only my belt that kept me in my seat , and the shock and breathlessness left me hanging half insensible over the side of the fuselage . 
But I am always capable of a supreme effort it is my one great merit as an aviator . 
I was conscious that the descent was slower . 
The whirlpool was a cone rather than a funnel , and I had come to the apex . 
With a terrific wrench , throwing my weight all to one side , I levelled my planes and brought her head away from the wind . 
In an instant I had shot out of the eddies and was skimming down the sky . 
Then , shaken but victorious , I turned her nose up and began once more my steady grind on the upward spiral . 
I took a large sweep to avoid the danger spot of the whirlpool , and soon I was safely above it . 
Just after one o'clock I was twenty one thousand feet above the sea level . 
To my great joy I had topped the gale , and with every hundred feet of ascent the air grew stiller . 
On the other hand , it was very cold , and I was conscious of that peculiar nausea which goes with rarefaction of the air . 
For the first time I unscrewed the mouth of my oxygen bag and took an occasional whiff of the glorious gas . 
I could feel it running like a cordial through my veins , and I was exhilarated almost to the point of drunkenness . 
I shouted and sang as I soared upwards into the cold , still outer world . 
Doing it at an easy gradient and accustoming oneself to the lessened barometric pressure by slow degrees , there are no such dreadful symptoms . 
At the same great height I found that even without my oxygen inhaler I could breathe without undue distress . 
It was bitterly cold , however , and my thermometer was at zero , Fahrenheit . 
At one thirty I was nearly seven miles above the surface of the earth , and still ascending steadily . 
I found , however , that the rarefied air was giving markedly less support to my planes , and that my angle of ascent had to be considerably lowered in consequence . 
It was already clear that even with my light weight and strong engine power there was a point in front of me where I should be held . 
To make matters worse , one of my sparking plugs was in trouble again and there was intermittent misfiring in the engine . 
My heart was heavy with the fear of failure . 
It was about that time that I had a most extraordinary experience . 
Something whizzed past me in a trail of smoke and exploded with a loud , hissing sound , sending forth a cloud of steam . 
For the instant I could not imagine what had happened . 
Here is a new danger for the high altitude man , for two others passed me when I was nearing the forty thousand foot mark . 
I cannot doubt that at the edge of the earth's envelope the risk would be a very real one . 
My barograph needle marked forty one thousand three hundred when I became aware that I could go no farther . 
Physically , the strain was not as yet greater than I could bear but my machine had reached its limit . 
The attenuated air gave no firm support to the wings , and the least tilt developed into side slip , while she seemed sluggish on her controls . 
If I had not already reached the zone for which I was searching then I should never see it upon this journey . 
The heavens were perfectly clear there was no indication of those dangers which I had imagined . 
I have said that I was soaring in circles . 
It struck me suddenly that I would do well to take a wider sweep and open up a new airtract . 
If the hunter entered an earth jungle he would drive through it if he wished to find his game . 
My reasoning had led me to believe that the air jungle which I had imagined lay somewhere over Wiltshire . 
This should be to the south and west of me . 
I took my bearings from the sun , for the compass was hopeless and no trace of earth was to be seen nothing but the distant , silver cloud plain . 
However , I got my direction as best I might and kept her head straight to the mark . 
Suddenly I was aware of something new . 
The air in front of me had lost its crystal clearness . 
It was full of long , ragged wisps of something which I can only compare to very fine cigarette smoke . 
It hung about in wreaths and coils , turning and twisting slowly in the sunlight . 
As the monoplane shot through it , I was aware of a faint taste of oil upon my lips , and there was a greasy scum upon the woodwork of the machine . 
Some infinitely fine organic matter appeared to be suspended in the atmosphere . 
There was no life there . 
It was inchoate and diffuse , extending for many square acres and then fringing off into the void . 
No , it was not life . 
It was of a light pink colour veined with a delicate green , but the whole huge fabric so tenuous that it was but a fairy outline against the dark blue sky . 
It pulsated with a delicate and regular rhythm . 
From it there depended two long , drooping , green tentacles , which swayed slowly backwards and forwards . 
This gorgeous vision passed gently with noiseless dignity over my head , as light and fragile as a soap bubble , and drifted upon its stately way . 
Some were quite small , but the majority about as big as an average balloon , and with much the same curvature at the top . 
There was in them a delicacy of texture and colouring which reminded me of the finest Venetian glass . 
Pale shades of pink and green were the prevailing tints , but all had a lovely iridescence where the sun shimmered through their dainty forms . 
But soon my attention was drawn to a new phenomenon the serpents of the outer air . 
These air snakes were of a very light grey or smoke colour , with some darker lines within , which gave the impression of a definite organism . 
There was no more solidity in their frames than in the floating spume from a broken wave . 
But a more terrible experience was in store for me . 
Though fashioned of some transparent , jelly like substance , it was none the less of much more definite outline and solid consistence than anything which I had seen before . 
So elastic and gelatinous was it that never for two successive minutes was it the same shape , and yet each change made it more threatening and loathsome than the last . 
I knew that it meant mischief . 
Every purple flush of its hideous body told me so . 
The vague , goggling eyes which were turned always upon me were cold and merciless in their viscid hatred . 
I dipped the nose of my monoplane downwards to escape it . 
I dipped to a vol pique , but again a tentacle fell over the monoplane and was shorn off by the propeller as easily as it might have cut through a smoke wreath . 
A long , gliding , sticky , serpent like coil came from behind and caught me round the waist , dragging me out of the fuselage . 
And yet I aimed better than I knew , for , with a loud report , one of the great blisters upon the creature's back exploded with the puncture of the buck shot . 
Far behind me I saw a dull , purplish smudge growing swiftly smaller and merging into the blue sky behind it . 
I was safe out of the deadly jungle of the outer air . 
Once out of danger I throttled my engine , for nothing tears a machine to pieces quicker than running on full power from a height . 
I have seen the beauty and I have seen the horror of the heights and greater beauty or greater horror than that is not within the ken of man . 
And now it is my plan to go once again before I give my results to the world . 
My reason for this is that I must surely have something to show by way of proof before I lay such a tale before my fellow men . 
It is true that others will soon follow and will confirm what I have said , and yet I should wish to carry conviction from the first . 
Those lovely iridescent bubbles of the air should not be hard to capture . 
They drift slowly upon their way , and the swift monoplane could intercept their leisurely course . 
And yet something there would surely be by which I could substantiate my story . 
Yes , I will go , even if I run a risk by doing so . 
These purple horrors would not seem to be numerous . 
It is probable that I shall not see one . 
If I do I shall dive at once . 
At the worst there is always the shot gun and my knowledge of . 
Here a page of the manuscript is unfortunately missing . 
On the next page is written , in large , straggling writing Forty three thousand feet . 
I shall never see earth again . 
They are beneath me , three of them . 
God help me it is a dreadful death to die ! Such in its entirety is the Joyce Armstrong Statement . 
Of the man nothing has since been seen . 
But no drivel about accidents or mysteries , if YOU please . 
The Leather Funnel My friend , Lionel Dacre , lived in the Avenue de Wagram , Paris . 
His house was that small one , with the iron railings and grass plot in front of it , on the left hand side as you pass down from the Arc de Triomphe . 
I fancy that it had been there long before the avenue was constructed , for the grey tiles were stained with lichens , and the walls were mildewed and discoloured with age . 
It looked a small house from the street , five windows in front , if I remember right , but it deepened into a single long chamber at the back . 
It was here that Dacre had that singular library of occult literature , and the fantastic curiosities which served as a hobby for himself , and an amusement for his friends . 
His tastes leaned toward the marvellous and the monstrous , and I have heard that his experiments in the direction of the unknown have passed all the bounds of civilization and of decorum . 
Dacre's appearance was enough to show that his deep interest in these psychic matters was intellectual rather than spiritual . 
His knowledge was greater than his wisdom , and his powers were far superior to his character . 
The small bright eyes , buried deeply in his fleshy face , twinkled with intelligence and an unabated curiosity of life , but they were the eyes of a sensualist and an egotist . 
Chance remarks had led to daily conversation , and that to something verging upon friendship . 
I had promised him that on my next visit to Paris I would call upon him . 
I have only that one spare couch , said he , pointing to a broad sofa in his large salon I hope that you will manage to be comfortable there . 
I assured him that I could desire no more charming chamber , and no more congenial surroundings . 
If the fittings are neither convenient nor conventional , they are at least costly , said he , looking round at his shelves . 
I have expended nearly a quarter of a million of money upon these objects which surround you . 
Books , weapons , gems , carvings , tapestries , images there is hardly a thing here which has not its history , and it is generally one worth telling . 
He was seated as he spoke at one side of the open fire place , and I at the other . 
His reading table was on his right , and the strong lamp above it ringed it with a very vivid circle of golden light . 
A half rolled palimpsest lay in the centre , and around it were many quaint articles of bric a brac . 
One of these was a large funnel , such as is used for filling wine casks . 
It appeared to be made of black wood , and to be rimmed with discoloured brass . 
That is a curious thing , I remarked . 
What is the history of that ? Ah ! said he , it is the very question which I have had occasion to ask myself . 
I would give a good deal to know . 
Take it in your hands and examine it . 
I did so , and found that what I had imagined to be wood was in reality leather , though age had dried it into an extreme hardness . 
It was a large funnel , and might hold a quart when full . 
The brass rim encircled the wide end , but the narrow was also tipped with metal . 
What do you make of it ? asked Dacre . 
I dare say the date would be about the same , said Dacre , and , no doubt , also , it was used for filling a vessel with liquid . 
If my suspicions are correct , however , it was a queer vintner who used it , and a very singular cask which was filled . 
Do you observe nothing strange at the spout end of the funnel . 
Only at that point was there any roughening of the dead black surface . 
Someone has tried to cut off the neck . 
Would you call it a cut ? It is torn and lacerated . 
It must have taken some strength to leave these marks on such tough material , whatever the instrument may have been . 
But what do you think of it ? I can tell that you know more than you say . 
Dacre smiled , and his little eyes twinkled with knowledge . 
Have you included the psychology of dreams among your learned studies ? he asked . 
I did not even know that there was such a psychology . 
My dear sir , that shelf above the gem case is filled with volumes , from Albertus Magnus onward , which deal with no other subject . 
It is a science in itself . 
A science of charlatans The charlatan is always the pioneer . 
From the astrologer came the astronomer , from the alchemist the chemist , from the mesmerist the experimental psychologist . 
The quack of yesterday is the professor of tomorrow . 
Even such subtle and elusive things as dreams will in time be reduced to system and order . 
When that time comes the researches of our friends on the bookshelf yonder will no longer be the amusement of the mystic , but the foundations of a science . 
Supposing that is so , what has the science of dreams to do with a large , black , brass rimmed funnel ? I will tell you . 
You know that I have an agent who is always on the look out for rarities and curiosities for my collection . 
There can be no doubt that the other articles in the cupboard date back to the early days of that king . 
What then ? I would ask you now to take the funnel into your hands once more and to examine the upper brass rim . 
Can you make out any lettering upon it ? There were certainly some scratches upon it , almost obliterated by time . 
The general effect was of several letters , the last of which bore some resemblance to a B. You make it a B ? Yes , I do . 
So do I. In fact , I have no doubt whatever that it is a B. But the nobleman you mentioned would have had R for his initial . 
Exactly ! That's the beauty of it . 
He owned this curious object , and yet he had someone else's initials upon it . 
Why did he do this ? I can't imagine can you ? Well , I might , perhaps , guess . 
Do you observe something drawn a little farther along the rim ? I should say it was a crown . 
It is undoubtedly a crown but if you examine it in a good light , you will convince yourself that it is not an ordinary crown . 
It is a heraldic crown a badge of rank , and it consists of an alternation of four pearls and strawberry leaves , the proper badge of a marquis . 
We may infer , therefore , that the person whose initials end in B was entitled to wear that coronet . 
Then this common leather filler belonged to a marquis ? Dacre gave a peculiar smile . 
Or to some member of the family of a marquis , said he . 
So much we have clearly gathered from this engraved rim . 
I have more than once received important information through my dreams , said my companion in the didactic manner which he loved to affect . 
I make it a rule now when I am in doubt upon any material point to place the article in question beside me as I sleep , and to hope for some enlightenment . 
The process does not appear to me to be very obscure , though it has not yet received the blessing of orthodox science . 
By a sensitive mind I do not mean an abnormal one , but such a trained and educated mind as you or I possess . 
For example ? Well , the placing of the bride's cake beneath the pillow in order that the sleeper may have pleasant dreams . 
That is one of several instances which you will find set forth in a small brochure which I am myself writing upon the subject . 
What did you dream ? I dreamed He paused , and an intent look of interest came over his massive face . 
By Jove , that's well thought of , said he . 
This really will be an exceedingly interesting experiment . 
You are yourself a psychic subject with nerves which respond readily to any impression . 
I have never tested myself in that direction . 
Then we shall test you tonight . 
I had not the faintest belief in Dacre's theory , nor any hopes for success in such an experiment yet it amused me that the experiment should be made . 
Dacre , with great gravity , drew a small stand to the head of my settee , and placed the funnel upon it . 
Then , after a short conversation , he wished me good night and left me . 
Finally I undressed , and turning out the lamp , I lay down . 
After long tossing I fell asleep . 
Let me try to describe as accurately as I can the scene which came to me in my dreams . 
It stands out now in my memory more clearly than anything which I have seen with my waking eyes . 
There was a room which bore the appearance of a vault . 
Four spandrels from the corners ran up to join a sharp , cup shaped roof . 
The architecture was rough , but very strong . 
It was evidently part of a great building . 
Three men in black , with curious , top heavy , black velvet hats , sat in a line upon a red carpeted dais . 
Their faces were very solemn and sad . 
On the left stood two long gowned men with port folios in their hands , which seemed to be stuffed with papers . 
Upon the right , looking toward me , was a small woman with blonde hair and singular , light blue eyes the eyes of a child . 
She was past her first youth , but could not yet be called middle aged . 
Her figure was inclined to stoutness and her bearing was proud and confident . 
Her face was pale , but serene . 
It was a curious face , comely and yet feline , with a subtle suggestion of cruelty about the straight , strong little mouth and chubby jaw . 
She was draped in some sort of loose , white gown . 
Beside her stood a thin , eager priest , who whispered in her ear , and continually raised a crucifix before her eyes . 
She turned her head and looked fixedly past the crucifix at the three men in black , who were , I felt , her judges . 
As I gazed the three men stood up and said something , but I could distinguish no words , though I was aware that it was the central one who was speaking . 
They then swept out of the room , followed by the two men with the papers . 
When this screen was removed I saw some singular articles of furniture behind it . 
One looked like a bed with wooden rollers at each end , and a winch handle to regulate its length . 
Another was a wooden horse . 
There were several other curious objects , and a number of swinging cords which played over pulleys . 
It was not unlike a modern gymnasium . 
When the room had been cleared there appeared a new figure upon the scene . 
This was a tall , thin person clad in black , with a gaunt and austere face . 
The aspect of the man made me shudder . 
His clothes were all shining with grease and mottled with stains . 
He bore himself with a slow and impressive dignity , as if he took command of all things from the instant of his entrance . 
In spite of his rude appearance and sordid dress , it was now his business , his room , his to command . 
He carried a coil of light ropes over his left forearm . 
The lady looked him up and down with a searching glance , but her expression was unchanged . 
It was confident even defiant . 
But it was very different with the priest . 
His face was ghastly white , and I saw the moisture glisten and run on his high , sloping forehead . 
He threw up his hands in prayer and he stooped continually to mutter frantic words in the lady's ear . 
The man in black now advanced , and taking one of the cords from his left arm , he bound the woman's hands together . 
She held them meekly toward him as he did so . 
Then he took her arm with a rough grip and led her toward the wooden horse , which was little higher than her waist . 
The woman's lips were moving rapidly , and though I could hear nothing I knew that she was praying . 
A man had entered the room with a bucket of water in either hand . 
Another followed with a third bucket . 
They were laid beside the wooden horse . 
The second man had a wooden dipper a bowl with a straight handle in his other hand . 
This he gave to the man in black . 
At the same moment one of the varlets approached with a dark object in his hand , which even in my dream filled me with a vague feeling of familiarity . 
It was a leathern filler . 
With horrible energy he thrust it but I could stand no more . 
My hair stood on end with horror . 
Oh , what a blessed relief to feel that I was back in the nineteenth century back out of that mediaeval vault into a world where men had human hearts within their bosoms . 
I sat up on my couch , trembling in every limb , my mind divided between thankfulness and horror . 
To think that such things were ever done that they could be done without God striking the villains dead . 
And then , suddenly , my heart seemed to stand still in my bosom , and I could not even scream , so great was my terror . 
Something was advancing toward me through the darkness of the room . 
It is a horror coming upon a horror which breaks a man's spirit . 
I could not reason , I could not pray I could only sit like a frozen image , and glare at the dark figure which was coming down the great room . 
And then it moved out into the white lane of moonlight , and I breathed once more . 
It was Dacre , and his face showed that he was as frightened as myself . 
Was that you ? For God's sake what's the matter ? he asked in a husky voice . 
Oh , Dacre , I am glad to see you ! I have been down into hell . 
Then it was you who screamed ? I dare say it was . 
It rang through the house . 
The servants are all terrified . 
He struck a match and lit the lamp . 
I think we may get the fire to burn up again , he added , throwing some logs upon the embers . 
Good God , my dear chap , how white you are ! You look as if you had seen a ghost . 
So I have several ghosts . 
The leather funnel has acted , then ? I wouldn't sleep near the infernal thing again for all the money you could offer me . 
I expected that you would have a lively night of it , said he . 
You took it out of me in return , for that scream of yours wasn't a very pleasant sound at two in the morning . 
I suppose from what you say that you have seen the whole dreadful business . 
What dreadful business ? The torture of the water the Extraordinary Question , as it was called in the genial days of Le Roi Soleil . 
Did you stand it out to the end ? No , thank God , I awoke before it really began . 
Ah ! it is just as well for you . 
I held out till the third bucket . 
She must have been a terrible malefactor indeed if her crimes are in proportion to her penalty . 
Well , we have that small consolation , said Dacre , wrapping his dressing gown round him and crouching closer to the fire . 
They WERE in proportion to her penalty . 
That is to say , if I am correct in the lady's identity . 
How could you possibly know her identity ? For answer Dacre took down an old vellum covered volume from the shelf . 
Just listen to this , said he it is in the French of the seventeenth century , but I will give a rough translation as I go . 
You will judge for yourself whether I have solved the riddle or not . 
d'Aubray , one being civil lieutenant , and the other a counsellor of Parliament . 
The date of this entry is July , . 
It is interesting , said I , but not convincing . 
How do you prove the two women to be the same ? I am coming to that . 
The narrative goes on to tell of the woman's behaviour when questioned . 
How's that ? Yes , it was so . 
She gazed without wincing upon the wooden horse and rings which had twisted so many limbs and caused so many shrieks of agony . 
You have no idea , I trust , of making a person of my small stature swallow it all . 
Shall I read the details of the torture ? No , for Heaven's sake , don't . 
Does that convince you ? It does entirely . 
There can be no question that it is indeed the same event . 
Lifting up the ill omened filler , he turned the brass rim so that the light fell full upon it . 
Seen in this way the engraving seemed clearer than on the night before . 
We have already agreed that this is the badge of a marquis or of a marquise , said he . 
We have also settled that the last letter is B. It is undoubtedly so . 
I can make out the two small d's quite plainly . 
I sat in silence , overwhelmed at the extraordinary nature of the incident , and at the completeness of the proof with which Dacre had exposed its real meaning . 
One objection , and one only , occurred to my mind . 
It was not often that a marchioness of France underwent the extraordinary question . 
That he should engrave her initials upon it for the information of others was surely a very ordinary proceeding upon his part . 
And this ? I asked , pointing to the marks upon the leathern neck . 
She was a cruel tigress , said Dacre , as he turned away . 
I think it is evident that like other tigresses her teeth were both strong and sharp . 
The New Catacomb Look here , Burger , said Kennedy , I do wish that you would confide in me . 
The two famous students of Roman remains sat together in Kennedy's comfortable room overlooking the Corso . 
The night was cold , and they had both pulled up their chairs to the unsatisfactory Italian stove which threw out a zone of stuffiness rather than of warmth . 
But inside , in the sumptuous chamber of the rich young English archaelogist , there was only old Rome to be seen . 
Cracked and timeworn friezes hung upon the walls , grey old busts of senators and soldiers with their fighting heads and their hard , cruel faces peered out from the corners . 
Amphorae hung from the ceiling , and a litter of curiosities strewed the rich red Turkey carpet . 
Of a very different type was his companion , Julius Burger . 
He came of a curious blend , a German father and an Italian mother , with the robust qualities of the North mingling strangely with the softer graces of the South . 
Blue Teutonic eyes lightened his sun browned face , and above them rose a square , massive forehead , with a fringe of close yellow curls lying round it . 
In age and in reputation , he was on the same level as his English companion , but his life and his work had both been far more arduous . 
He had never found a pause in his studies in which to cultivate the social graces . 
It was only when he spoke of his own subject that his face was filled with life and soul . 
And yet for some years there had been an acquaintanceship which appeared to be slowly ripening into a friendship between these two very different rivals . 
Their common interests and pursuits had brought them together , and each had been attracted by the other's knowledge . 
And then gradually something had been added to this . 
I say had , because just at the moment the young Englishman was somewhat under a cloud . 
A love affair , the details of which had never quite come out , had indicated a heartlessness and callousness upon his part which shocked many of his friends . 
Look here , Burger , said Kennedy , looking hard at the placid face of his companion , I do wish that you would confide in me . 
As he spoke he waved his hand in the direction of a rug which lay upon the floor . 
The pile of odds and ends in the flat wicker work basket supplied exactly one of those missing links of social development which are of such interest to the student . 
It was the German who had brought them in , and the Englishman's eyes were hungry as he looked at them . 
I won't interfere with your treasure trove , but I should very much like to hear about it , he continued , while Burger very deliberately lit a cigar . 
It is evidently a discovery of the first importance . 
These inscriptions will make a sensation throughout Europe . 
For every one here there are a million there ! said the German . 
There are so many that a dozen savants might spend a lifetime over them , and build up a reputation as solid as the Castle of St . 
Kennedy sat thinking with his fine forehead wrinkled and his fingers playing with his long , fair moustache . 
You have given yourself away , Burger ! said he at last . 
Your words can only apply to one thing . 
You have discovered a new catacomb . 
I had no doubt that you had already come to that conclusion from an examination of these objects . 
Well , they certainly appeared to indicate it , but your last remarks make it certain . 
There is no place except a catacomb which could contain so vast a store of relics as you describe . 
There is no mystery about that . 
I HAVE discovered a new catacomb . 
Where ? Ah , that is my secret , my dear Kennedy . 
Suffice it that it is so situated that there is not one chance in a million of anyone else coming upon it . 
If I was not aware of your knowledge and of your energy , my friend , I would not hesitate , under the pledge of secrecy , to tell you everything about it . 
But as it is I think that I must certainly prepare my own report of the matter before I expose myself to such formidable competition . 
He had ambition , but his ambition was secondary to his mere abstract joy and interest in everything which concerned the old life and history of the city . 
He yearned to see this new underworld which his companion had discovered . 
Look here , Burger , said he , earnestly , I assure you that you can trust me most implicitly in the matter . 
Nothing would induce me to put pen to paper about anything which I see until I have your express permission . 
I quite understand your feeling and I think it is most natural , but you have really nothing whatever to fear from me . 
On the other hand , if you don't tell me I shall make a systematic search , and I shall most certainly discover it . 
In that case , of course , I should make what use I liked of it , since I should be under no obligation to you . 
Burger smiled thoughtfully over his cigar . 
I have noticed , friend Kennedy , said he , that when I want information over any point you are not always so ready to supply it . 
Ah , well , that was not a matter of much importance . 
Kennedy sprang up in his chair and glared angrily at his impassive companion . 
What the devil do you mean ? he cried . 
What sort of a question is this ? You may mean it as a joke , but you never made a worse one . 
No , I don't mean it as a joke , said Burger , simply . 
I am really rather interested in the details of the matter . 
I don't know much about the world and women and social life and that sort of thing , and such an incident has the fascination of the unknown for me . 
I know you , and I knew her by sight I had even spoken to her once or twice . 
I should very much like to hear from your own lips exactly what it was which occurred between you . 
I won't tell you a word . 
It was only my whim to see if you would give up a secret as easily as you expected me to give up my secret of the new catacomb . 
You wouldn't , and I didn't expect you to . 
But why should you expect otherwise of me ? There's Saint John's clock striking ten . 
It is quite time that I was going home . 
No wait a bit , Burger , said Kennedy this is really a ridiculous caprice of yours to wish to know about an old love affair which has burned out months ago . 
You know we look upon a man who kisses and tells as the greatest coward and villain possible . 
Certainly , said the German , gathering up his basket of curiosities , when he tells anything about a girl which is previously unknown he must be so . 
What was it you wanted to know ? The German came back to the stove , and , laying down his basket , he sank into his chair once more . 
May I have another cigar ? said he . 
Thank you very much ! I never smoke when I work , but I enjoy a chat much more when I am under the influence of tobacco . 
Now , as regards this young lady , with whom you had this little adventure . 
What in the world has become of her ? She is at home with her own people . 
Oh , really in England ? Yes . 
What part of England London ? No , Twickenham . 
You must excuse my curiosity , my dear Kennedy , and you must put it down to my ignorance of the world . 
But it is something so entirely outside my own experience that I cannot even imagine how you set about it . 
For example , if you had loved this girl your love could hardly disappear in three weeks , so I presume that you could not have loved her at all . 
But if you did not love her why should you make this great scandal which has damaged you and ruined her ? Kennedy looked moodily into the red eye of the stove . 
That's a logical way of looking at it , certainly , said he . 
Love is a big word , and it represents a good many different shades of feeling . 
I liked her , and well , you say you've seen her you know how charming she could look . 
But still I am willing to admit , looking back , that I could never have really loved her . 
Then , my dear Kennedy , why did you do it ? The adventure of the thing had a great deal to do with it . 
There was the piquant difficulty of it also , for , as she was the companion of Lady Emily Rood , it was almost impossible to see her alone . 
On the top of all the other obstacles which attracted me , I learned from her own lips very early in the proceedings that she was engaged . 
Mein Gott ! To whom ? She mentioned no names . 
I do not think that anyone knows that . 
So that made the adventure more alluring , did it ? Well , it did certainly give a spice to it . 
Don't you think so ? I tell you that I am very ignorant about these things . 
My dear fellow , you can remember that the apple you stole from your neighbour's tree was always sweeter than that which fell from your own . 
And then I found that she cared for me . 
What at once ? Oh , no , it took about three months of sapping and mining . 
But at last I won her over . 
But how about the other man ? Kennedy shrugged his shoulders . 
I suppose it is the survival of the fittest , said he . 
If he had been the better man she would not have deserted him . 
Let's drop the subject , for I have had enough of it ! Only one other thing . 
How did you get rid of her in three weeks ? Well , we had both cooled down a bit , you understand . 
She absolutely refused , under any circumstances , to come back to face the people she had known in Rome . 
Now , of course , Rome is necessary to me , and I was already pining to be back at my work so there was one obvious cause of separation . 
Now , I rely upon you not to repeat anything of what I have said . 
My dear Kennedy , I should not dream of repeating it . 
And now you want to know about my new catacomb . 
There's no use my trying to describe it , for you would never find it by that . 
There is only one thing , and that is for me to take you there . 
When would you like to come ? The sooner the better . 
I am all impatience to see it . 
Well , it is a beautiful night though a trifle cold . 
Suppose we start in an hour . 
We must be very careful to keep the matter to ourselves . 
If anyone saw us hunting in couples they would suspect that there was something going on . 
We can't be too cautious , said Kennedy . 
Is it far ? Some miles . 
Not too far to walk ? Oh , no , we could walk there easily . 
We had better do so , then . 
A cabman's suspicions would be aroused if he dropped us both at some lonely spot in the dead of the night . 
I think it would be best for us to meet at the Gate of the Appian Way at midnight . 
I must go back to my lodgings for the matches and candles and things . 
Good bye for the present ! You will find me at the Gate at twelve . 
Kennedy stepped out of the shadow to meet him . 
You are ardent in work as well as in love ! said the German , laughing . 
Yes I have been waiting here for nearly half an hour . 
I hope you left no clue as to where we were going . 
Not such a fool ! By Jove , I am chilled to the bone ! Come on , Burger , let us warm ourselves by a spurt of hard walking . 
Their footsteps sounded loud and crisp upon the rough stone paving of the disappointing road which is all that is left of the most famous highway of the world . 
A peasant or two going home from the wine shop , and a few carts of country produce coming up to Rome , were the only things which they met . 
They swung along , with the huge tombs looming up through the darkness upon each side of them , until they had come as far as the Catacombs of St . 
Calistus , and saw against a rising moon the great circular bastion of Cecilia Metella in front of them . 
Then Burger stopped with his hand to his side . 
Your legs are longer than mine , and you are more accustomed to walking , said he , laughing . 
I think that the place where we turn off is somewhere here . 
Yes , this is it , round the corner of the trattoria . 
Now , it is a very narrow path , so perhaps I had better go in front and you can follow . 
He had lit his lantern , and by its light they were enabled to follow a narrow and devious track which wound across the marshes of the Campagna . 
At last Burger stopped at a solitary wooden cow house , and he drew a key from his pocket . 
Surely your catacomb is not inside a house ! cried Kennedy The entrance to it is . 
That is just the safeguard which we have against anyone else discovering it . 
Does the proprietor know of it ? Not he . 
He had found one or two objects which made me almost certain that his house was built on the entrance to such a place . 
So I rented it from him , and did my excavations for myself . 
Come in , and shut the door behind you . 
It was a long , empty building , with the mangers of the cows along one wall . 
Burger put his lantern down on the ground , and shaded its light in all directions save one by draping his overcoat round it . 
It might excite remark if anyone saw a light in this lonely place , said he . 
Just help me to move this boarding . 
The flooring was loose in the corner , and plank by plank the two savants raised it and leaned it against the wall . 
Below there was a square aperture and a stair of old stone steps which led away down into the bowels of the earth . 
Be careful ! cried Burger , as Kennedy , in his impatience , hurried down them . 
It is a perfect rabbits' warren below , and if you were once to lose your way there the chances would be a hundred to one against your ever coming out again . 
Wait until I bring the light . 
How do you find your own way if it is so complicated ? I had some very narrow escapes at first , but I have gradually learned to go about . 
There is a certain system to it , but it is one which a lost man , if he were in the dark , could not possibly find out . 
Even now I always spin out a ball of string behind me when I am going far into the catacomb . 
You can see for yourself that it is difficult , but every one of these passages divides and subdivides a dozen times before you go a hundred yards . 
They had descended some twenty feet from the level of the byre , and they were standing now in a square chamber cut out of the soft tufa . 
The lantern cast a flickering light , bright below and dim above , over the cracked brown walls . 
In every direction were the black openings of passages which radiated from this common centre . 
I want you to follow me closely , my friend , said Burger . 
Do not loiter to look at anything upon the way , for the place to which I will take you contains all that you can see , and more . 
It will save time for us to go there direct . 
He led the way down one of the corridors , and the Englishman followed closely at his heels . 
Every now and then the passage bifurcated , but Burger was evidently following some secret marks of his own , for he neither stopped nor hesitated . 
Everywhere along the walls , packed like the berths upon an emigrant ship , lay the Christians of old Rome . 
The yellow light flickered over the shrivelled features of the mummies , and gleamed upon rounded skulls and long , white armbones crossed over fleshless chests . 
What would happen if the light went out ? he asked , as they hurried onwards . 
I have a spare candle and a box of matches in my pocket . 
By the way , Kennedy , have you any matches ? No you had better give me some . 
Oh , that is all right . 
There is no chance of our separating . 
How far are we going ? It seems to me that we have walked at least a quarter of a mile . 
More than that , I think . 
There is really no limit to the tombs at least , I have never been able to find any . 
This is a very difficult place , so I think that I will use our ball of string . 
He fastened one end of it to a projecting stone and he carried the coil in the breast of his coat , paying it out as he advanced . 
Kennedy saw that it was no unnecessary precaution , for the passages had become more complex and tortuous than ever , with a perfect network of intersecting corridors . 
But these all ended in one large circular hall with a square pedestal of tufa topped with a slab of marble at one end of it . 
By Jove ! cried Kennedy in an ecstasy , as Burger swung his lantern over the marble . 
It is a Christian altar probably the first one in existence . 
Here is the little consecration cross cut upon the corner of it . 
No doubt this circular space was used as a church . 
Go over to that one and look at it ! Kennedy went across , and stared at the ghastly head which lay loosely on the shredded and mouldering mitre . 
This is most interesting , said he , and his voice seemed to boom against the concave vault . 
As far as my experience goes , it is unique . 
Bring the lantern over , Burger , for I want to see them all . 
But the German had strolled away , and was standing in the middle of a yellow circle of light at the other side of the hall . 
Do you know how many wrong turnings there are between this and the stairs ? he asked . 
There are over two thousand . 
No doubt it was one of the means of protection which the Christians adopted . 
And the darkness is something dreadful . 
I tried it once for an experiment . 
Let us try it again ! He stooped to the lantern , and in an instant it was as if an invisible hand was squeezed tightly over each of Kennedy's eyes . 
Never had he known what such darkness was . 
It seemed to press upon him and to smother him . 
It was a solid obstacle against which the body shrank from advancing . 
He put his hands out to push it back from him . 
That will do , Burger , said he , let's have the light again . 
But his companion began to laugh , and in that circular room the sound seemed to come from every side at once . 
You seem uneasy , friend Kennedy , said he . 
Go on , man , light the candle ! said Kennedy impatiently . 
It's very strange , Kennedy , but I could not in the least tell by the sound in which direction you stand . 
Could you tell where I am ? No you seem to be on every side of me . 
If it were not for this string which I hold in my hand I should not have a notion which way to go . 
Strike a light , man , and have an end of this nonsense . 
Well , Kennedy , there are two things which I understand that you are very fond of . 
The one is an adventure , and the other is an obstacle to surmount . 
The adventure must be the finding of your way out of this catacomb . 
The obstacle will be the darkness and the two thousand wrong turns which make the way a little difficult to find . 
You devil , what do you mean ? roared Kennedy . 
He was running about in little circles and clasping at the solid blackness with both hands . 
Good bye , said the mocking voice , and it was already at some distance . 
I really do not think , Kennedy , even by your own showing that you did the right thing by that girl . 
There was only one little thing which you appeared not to know , and I can supply it . 
Miss Saunderson was engaged to a poor ungainly devil of a student , and his name was Julius Burger . 
The finding of this important burial place , which is exceeding rich in most interesting early Christian remains , is due to the energy and sagacity of Dr . 
Julius Burger , the young German specialist , who is rapidly taking the first place as an authority upon ancient Rome . 
Although the first to publish his discovery , it appears that a less fortunate adventurer had anticipated Dr . 
It appears now that he had in reality fallen a victim to that fervid love of archaeology which had raised him to a distinguished place among living scholars . 
What makes the matter more painful is that Dr . 
Julius Burger was an intimate friend of the deceased . 
His joy at the extraordinary find which he has been so fortunate as to make has been greatly marred by the terrible fate of his comrade and fellow worker . 
Douglas Stone in his prime was one of the most remarkable men in England . 
Indeed , he could hardly be said to have ever reached his prime , for he was but nine and thirty at the time of this little incident . 
Those who knew him best were aware that famous as he was as a surgeon , he might have succeeded with even greater rapidity in any of a dozen lines of life . 
He was born to be great , for he could plan what another man dare not do , and he could do what another man dare not plan . 
In surgery none could follow him . 
His nerve , his judgement , his intuition , were things apart . 
Again and again his knife cut away death , but grazed the very springs of life in doing it , until his assistants were as white as the patient . 
Large as was his income , and it was the third largest of all professional men in London , it was far beneath the luxury of his living . 
Deep in his complex nature lay a rich vein of sensualism , at the sport of which he placed all the prizes of his life . 
The eye , the ear , the touch , the palate , all were his masters . 
And then there came his sudden mad passion for Lady Sannox , when a single interview with two challenging glances and a whispered word set him ablaze . 
She was the loveliest woman in London and the only one to him . 
He was one of the handsomest men in London , but not the only one to her . 
She had a liking for new experiences , and was gracious to most men who wooed her . 
It may have been cause or it may have been effect that Lord Sannox looked fifty , though he was but six and thirty . 
He was a quiet , silent , neutral tinted man , this lord , with thin lips and heavy eyelids , much given to gardening , and full of home like habits . 
Since his marriage his early hobby had become distasteful to him . 
Even in private theatricals it was no longer possible to persuade him to exercise the talent which he had often showed that he possessed . 
He was happier with a spud and a watering can among his orchids and chrysanthemums . 
It was quite an interesting problem whether he was absolutely devoid of sense , or miserably wanting in spirit . 
Bitter and plain were the comments among men upon his conduct . 
There was but one who had a good word to say for him , and he was the most silent member in the smoking room . 
He had seen him break in a horse at the University , and it seemed to have left an impression upon his mind . 
But when Douglas Stone became the favourite all doubts as to Lord Sannox's knowledge or ignorance were set for ever at rest . 
There was no subterfuge about Stone . 
In his high handed , impetuous fashion , he set all caution and discretion at defiance . 
A learned body intimated that his name had been struck from the list of its vice presidents . 
Two friends implored him to consider his professional credit . 
He cursed them all three , and spent forty guineas on a bangle to take with him to the lady . 
He was at her house every evening , and she drove in his carriage in the afternoons . 
There was not an attempt on either side to conceal their relations but there came at last a little incident to interrupt them . 
It was a dismal winter's night , very cold and gusty , with the wind whooping in the chimneys and blustering against the window panes . 
A thin spatter of rain tinkled on the glass with each fresh sough of the gale , drowning for the instant the dull gurgle and drip from the eaves . 
Douglas Stone had finished his dinner , and sat by his fire in the study , a glass of rich port upon the malachite table at his elbow . 
He smiled from time to time as he nestled back in his luxurious chair . 
No other man in London would have had the daring to plan , or the skill to execute , such a heroic measure . 
But he had promised Lady Sannox to see her that evening and it was already half past eight . 
His hand was outstretched to the bell to order the carriage when he heard the dull thud of the knocker . 
An instant later there was the shuffling of feet in the hall , and the sharp closing of a door . 
A patient to see you , sir , in the consulting room , said the butler . 
About himself ? No , sir I think he wants you to go out . 
It is too late , cried Douglas Stone peevishly . 
This is his card , sir . 
The butler presented it upon the gold salver which had been given to his master by the wife of a Prime Minister . 
Hum ! The fellow is a Turk , I suppose . 
He seems as if he came from abroad , sir . 
And he's in a terrible way . 
Tut , tut ! I have an engagement . 
I must go somewhere else . 
Show him in here , Pim . 
His face was swarthy , and his hair and beard of the deepest black . 
In one hand he held a turban of white muslin striped with red , in the other a small chamois leather bag . 
Good evening , said Douglas Stone , when the butler had closed the door . 
You speak English , I presume ? Yes , sir . 
I am from Asia Minor , but I speak English when I speak slow . 
You wanted me to go out , I understand ? Yes , sir . 
I wanted very much that you should see my wife . 
I could come in the morning , but I have an engagement which prevents me from seeing your wife tonight . 
The Turk's answer was a singular one . 
He pulled the string which closed the mouth of the chamois leather bag , and poured a flood of gold on to the table . 
There are one hundred pounds there , said he , and I promise you that it will not take you an hour . 
I have a cab ready at the door . 
Douglas Stone glanced at his watch . 
An hour would not make it too late to visit Lady Sannox . 
He had been there later . 
And the fee was an extraordinarily high one . 
He had been pressed by his creditors lately , and he could not afford to let such a chance pass . 
What is the case ? he asked . 
Oh , it is so sad a one ! So sad a one ! You have not , perhaps heard of the daggers of the Almohades ? Never . 
Ah , they are Eastern daggers of a great age and of a singular shape , with the hilt like what you call a stirrup . 
I am a curiosity dealer , you understand , and that is why I have come to England from Smyrna , but next week I go back once more . 
Many things I brought with me , and I have a few things left , but among them , to my sorrow , is one of these daggers . 
You will remember that I have an appointment , sir , said the surgeon , with some irritation pray confine yourself to the necessary details . 
You will see that it is necessary . 
Today my wife fell down in a faint in the room in which I keep my wares , and she cut her lower lip upon this cursed dagger of Almohades . 
I see , said Douglas Stone , rising . 
And you wish me to dress the wound ? No , no , it is worse than that . 
What then ? These daggers are poisoned . 
Poisoned ! Yes , and there is no man , East or West , who can tell now what is the poison or what the cure . 
But all that is known I know , for my father was in this trade before me , and we have had much to do with these poisoned weapons . 
What are the symptoms ? Deep sleep , and death in thirty hours . 
And you say there is no cure . 
Why then should you pay me this considerable fee ? No drug can cure , but the knife may . 
And how ? The poison is slow of absorption . 
It remains for hours in the wound . 
Washing , then , might cleanse it ? No more than in a snake bite . 
It is too subtle and too deadly . 
Excision of the wound , then ? That is it . 
If it be on the finger , take the finger off . 
So said my father always . 
But think of where this wound is , and that it is my wife . 
It is dreadful ! But familiarity with such grim matters may take the finer edge from a man's sympathy . 
To Douglas Stone this was already an interesting case , and he brushed aside as irrelevant the feeble objections of the husband . 
It appears to be that or nothing , said he brusquely . 
It is better to loose a lip than a life . 
Ah , yes , I know that you are right . 
Well , well , it is kismet , and it must be faced . 
I have the cab , and you will come with me and do this thing . 
Douglas Stone took his case of bistouries from a drawer , and placed it with a roll of bandage and a compress of lint in his pocket . 
He must waste no more time if he were to see Lady Sannox . 
I am ready , said he , pulling on his overcoat . 
Will you take a glass of wine before you go out into this cold air ? His visitor shrank away , with a protesting hand upraised . 
You forget that I am a Mussulman , and a true follower of the Prophet , said he . 
But tell me what is the bottle of green glass which you have placed in your pocket ? It is chloroform . 
Ah , that also is forbidden to us . 
It is a spirit , and we make no use of such things . 
What ! You would allow your wife to go through an operation without an anaesthetic ? Ah ! she will feel nothing , poor soul . 
The deep sleep has already come on , which is the first working of the poison . 
And then I have given her of our Smyrna opium . 
Come , sir , for already an hour has passed . 
An instant later they were rattling upon their journey . 
Is it far ? asked Douglas Stone . 
We have a very little quiet place off the Euston Road . 
The surgeon pressed the spring of his repeater and listened to the little tings which told him the hour . 
It was a quarter past nine . 
He calculated the distances , and the short time which it would take him to perform so trivial an operation . 
He ought to reach Lady Sannox by ten o'clock . 
Through the fogged windows he saw the blurred gas lamps dancing past , with occasionally the broader glare of a shop front . 
The rain was pelting and rattling upon the leathern top of the carriage , and the wheels swashed as they rolled through puddle and mud . 
Opposite to him the white headgear of his companion gleamed faintly through the obscurity . 
The surgeon felt in his pockets and arranged his needles , his ligatures and his safety pins , that no time might be wasted when they arrived . 
He chafed with impatience and drummed his foot upon the floor . 
But the cab slowed down at last and pulled up . 
In an instant Douglas Stone was out , and the Smyrna merchant's toe was at his very heel . 
You can wait , said he to the driver . 
It was a mean looking house in a narrow and sordid street . 
The door which faced them was blotched and discoloured , and a faint light in the fan pane above , it served to show the dust and the grime which covered it . 
Above in one of the bedroom windows , there was a dull yellow glimmer . 
The merchant knocked loudly , and , as he turned his dark face towards the light , Douglas Stone could see that it was contracted with anxiety . 
A bolt was drawn , and an elderly woman with a taper stood in the doorway , shielding the thin flame with her gnarled hand . 
Is all well ? gasped the merchant . 
She is as you left her , sir . 
She has not spoken ? No , she is in a deep sleep . 
The merchant closed the door , and Douglas Stone walked down the narrow passage , glancing about him in some surprise as he did so . 
There was no oil cloth , no mat , no hat rack . 
Deep grey dust and heavy festoons of cobwebs met his eyes everywhere . 
Following the old woman up the winding stair , his firm footfall echoed harshly through the silent house . 
The bedroom was on the second landing . 
Douglas Stone followed the old nurse into it , with the merchant at his heels . 
Here , at least , there was furniture and to spare . 
The floor was littered and the corners piled with Turkish cabinets , inlaid tables , coats of chain mail , strange pipes , and grotesque weapons . 
A single small lamp stood upon a bracket on the wall . 
The lower part of the face was exposed , and the surgeon saw a jagged cut which zigzagged along the border of the under lip . 
You will forgive the yashmak , said the Turk . 
You know our views about women in the East . 
But the surgeon was not thinking about the yashmak . 
This was no longer a woman to him . 
He stooped and examined the wound carefully . 
There are no signs of irritation , said he . 
We might delay the operation until local symptoms develop . 
The husband wrung his hands in uncontrollable agitation . 
Oh ! sir , sir , he cried . 
I know , and I give you my assurance that an operation is absolutely necessary . 
Only the knife can save her . 
And yet I am inclined to wait , said Douglas Stone . 
That is enough , the Turk cried , angrily . 
Every minute is of importance , and I cannot stand here and see my wife allowed to sink . 
It only remains for me to give you my thanks for having come , and to call in some other surgeon before it is too late . 
To refund that hundred pounds was no pleasant matter . 
But of course if he left the case he must return the money . 
And if the Turk were right and the woman died , his position before a coroner might be an embarrassing one . 
You have had personal experience of this poison ? he asked . 
And you assure me that an operation is needful . 
I swear it by all that I hold sacred . 
The disfigurement will be frightful . 
I can understand that the mouth will not be a pretty one to kiss . 
Douglas Stone turned fiercely upon the man . 
The speech was a brutal one . 
But the Turk has his own fashion of talk and of thought , and there was no time for wrangling . 
Douglas Stone drew a bistoury from his case , opened it and felt the keen straight edge with his forefinger . 
Then he held the lamp closer to the bed . 
Two dark eyes were gazing up at him through the slit in the yashmak . 
They were all iris , and the pupil was hardly to be seen . 
You have given her a very heavy dose of opium . 
Yes , she has had a good dose . 
He glanced again at the dark eyes which looked straight at his own . 
They were dull and lustreless , but , even as he gazed , a little shifting sparkle came into them , and the lips quivered . 
She is not absolutely unconscious , said he . 
Would it not be well to use the knife while it will be painless ? The same thought had crossed the surgeon's mind . 
He grasped the wounded lip with his forceps , and with two swift cuts he took out a broad V shaped piece . 
The woman sprang up on the couch with a dreadful gurgling scream . 
Her covering was torn from her face . 
It was a face that he knew . 
In spite of that protruding upper lip and that slobber of blood , it was a face that he knew , She kept on putting her hand up to the gap and screaming . 
Douglas Stone sat down at the foot of the couch with his knife and his forceps . 
The room was whirling round , and he had felt something go like a ripping seam behind his ear . 
A bystander would have said that his face was the more ghastly of the two . 
It was really very necessary for Marion , this operation , said he , not physically , but morally , you know , morally . 
Douglas Stone stooped for yards and began to play with the fringe of the coverlet . 
His knife tinkled down upon the ground , but he still held the forceps and something more . 
I had long intended to make a little example , said Lord Sannox , suavely . 
Your note of Wednesday miscarried , and I have it here in my pocket book . 
I took some pains in carrying out my idea . 
The wound , by the way , was from nothing more dangerous than my signet ring . 
He glanced keenly at his silent companion , and cocked the small revolver which he held in his coat pocket . 
But Douglas Stone was still picking at the coverlet . 
You see you have kept your appointment after all , said Lord Sannox . 
And at that Douglas Stone began to laugh . 
He laughed long and loudly . 
But Lord Sannox did not laugh now . 
Something like fear sharpened and hardened his features . 
He walked from the room , and he walked on tiptoe . 
The old woman was waiting outside . 
Attend to your mistress when she awakes , said Lord Sannox . 
Then he went down to the street . 
The cab was at the door , and the driver raised his hand to his hat . 
John , said Lord Sannox , you will take the doctor home first . 
He will want leading downstairs , I think . 
Tell his butler that he has been taken ill at a case . 
Then you can take Lady Sannox home . 
And how about yourself , sir ? Oh , my address for the next few months will be Hotel di Roma , Venice . 
Just see that the letters are sent on . 
And tell Stevens to exhibit all the purple chrysanthemums next Monday , and to wire me the result . 
The Terror of Blue John Gap The following narrative was found among the papers of Dr . 
James Hardcastle , who died of phthisis on February th , , at , Upper Coventry Flats , South Kensington . 
I leave this record after my death , and perhaps strangers may be found to have more confidence in me than my friend . 
Inquiry has failed to elicit who this Seaton may have been . 
I may add that the visit of the deceased to Allerton's Farm , and the general nature of the alarm there , apart from his particular explanation , have been absolutely established . 
With this foreword I append his account exactly as he left it . 
It is in the form of a diary , some entries in which have been expanded , while a few have been erased . 
Already I feel the benefit of this wonderful upland air . 
The farm of the Allertons lies fourteen hundred and twenty feet above sea level , so it may well be a bracing climate . 
Beyond the usual morning cough I have very little discomfort , and , what with the fresh milk and the home grown mutton , I have every chance of putting on weight . 
I think Saunderson will be pleased . 
Truly , the old maid is a most useful person , one of the reserve forces of the community . 
The Professor rose from the ranks himself , and I believe that in his youth he was not above scaring crows in these very fields . 
It is a most lonely spot , and the walks are picturesque in the extreme . 
The farm consists of grazing land lying at the bottom of an irregular valley . 
On each side are the fantastic limestone hills , formed of rock so soft that you can break it away with your hands . 
All this country is hollow . 
Could you strike it with some gigantic hammer it would boom like a drum , or possibly cave in altogether and expose some huge subterranean sea . 
A great sea there must surely be , for on all sides the streams run into the mountain itself , never to reappear . 
There are gaps everywhere amid the rocks , and when you pass through them you find yourself in great caverns , which wind down into the bowels of the earth . 
Shut off the lamp , and you are in the blackest darkness . 
Turn it on , and it is a scene from the Arabian Nights . 
But there is one of these strange openings in the earth which has a special interest , for it is the handiwork , not of nature , but of man . 
I had never heard of Blue John when I came to these parts . 
It is the name given to a peculiar mineral of a beautiful purple shade , which is only found at one or two places in the world . 
It is so rare that an ordinary vase of Blue John would be valued at a great price . 
The Romans , with that extraordinary instinct of theirs , discovered that it was to be found in this valley , and sank a horizontal shaft deep into the mountain side . 
The opening of their mine has been called Blue John Gap , a clean cut arch in the rock , the mouth all overgrown with bushes . 
I was standing at the Blue John Gap when he came across the field to me . 
Well , doctor , said he , you're not afraid , anyhow . 
Afraid of what ? Of it , said he , with a jerk of his thumb towards the black vault , of the Terror that lives in the Blue John Cave . 
How absurdly easy it is for a legend to arise in a lonely countryside ! I examined him as to the reasons for his weird belief . 
It seems that from time to time sheep have been missing from the fields , carried bodily away , according to Armitage . 
That they could have wandered away of their own accord and disappeared among the mountains was an explanation to which he would not listen . 
On one occasion a pool of blood had been found , and some tufts of wool . 
That also , I pointed out , could be explained in a perfectly natural way . 
Further , the nights upon which sheep disappeared were invariably very dark , cloudy nights with no moon . 
This I met with the obvious retort that those were the nights which a commonplace sheep stealer would naturally choose for his work . 
On one occasion a gap had been made in a wall , and some of the stones scattered for a considerable distance . 
Human agency again , in my opinion . 
Finally , Armitage clinched all his arguments by telling me that he had actually heard the Creature indeed , that anyone could hear it who remained long enough at the Gap . 
It was a distant roaring of an immense volume . 
I could not but smile at this , knowing , as I do , the strange reverberations which come out of an underground water system running amid the chasms of a limestone formation . 
My incredulity annoyed Armitage so that he turned and left me with some abruptness . 
And now comes the queer point about the whole business . 
How shall I describe it ? First of all , it seemed to be a great distance away , far down in the bowels of the earth . 
Secondly , in spite of this suggestion of distance , it was very loud . 
It was certainly a most remarkable experience , and one which for a moment , I must admit , gave a new significance to Armitage's words . 
Decidedly I shall explore that cavern when my strength is restored . 
Of course , Armitage's explanation is too absurd for discussion , and yet that sound was certainly very strange . 
It still rings in my ears as I write . 
I shall do the thing more systematically . 
I have heard no sound at all , and could almost believe that I had been the victim of some hallucination suggested , perhaps , by Armitage's conversation . 
I begin to be keenly interested . 
I have said nothing to the Miss Allertons , for they are quite superstitious enough already , but I have bought some candles , and mean to investigate for myself . 
I observed this morning that among the numerous tufts of sheep's wool which lay among the bushes near the cavern there was one which was smeared with blood . 
A fetid breath seemed to ooze from the black depths into which I peered . 
For the moment I weakened in my resolution , and was ready to leave the secret of the old mine , if one exists , for ever unsolved . 
But tonight my interest has returned and my nerves grown more steady . 
Tomorrow I trust that I shall have gone more deeply into this matter . 
Let me try and set down as accurately as I can my extraordinary experience of yesterday . 
I started in the afternoon , and made my way to the Blue John Gap . 
I confess that my misgivings returned as I gazed into its depths , and I wished that I had brought a companion to share my exploration . 
Finally , with a return of resolution , I lit my candle , pushed my way through the briars , and descended into the rocky shaft . 
It went down at an acute angle for some fifty feet , the floor being covered with broken stone . 
Thence there extended a long , straight passage cut in the solid rock . 
Down this strange , old world corridor I stumbled , my feeble flame throwing a dim circle of light around me , which made the shadows beyond the more threatening and obscure . 
Finally , I came to a spot where the Roman tunnel opened into a water worn cavern a huge hall , hung with long white icicles of lime deposit . 
From this central chamber I could dimly perceive that a number of passages worn by the subterranean streams wound away into the depths of the earth . 
In the very centre of this there was a huge mark an ill defined blotch , deep , broad and irregular , as if a great boulder had fallen upon it . 
No loose stone lay near , however , nor was there anything to account for the impression . 
I soon recovered my nerve , however , when I reflected how absurd it was to associate so huge and shapeless a mark with the track of any known animal . 
Even an elephant could not have produced it . 
I determined , therefore , that I would not be scared by vague and senseless fears from carrying out my exploration . 
Before proceeding , I took good note of a curious rock formation in the wall by which I could recognize the entrance of the Roman tunnel . 
The precaution was very necessary , for the great cave , so far as I could see it , was intersected by passages . 
Having made sure of my position , and reassured myself by examining my spare candles and my matches , I advanced slowly over the rocky and uneven surface of the cavern . 
And now I come to the point where I met with such sudden and desperate disaster . 
A stream , some twenty feet broad , ran across my path , and I walked for some little distance along the bank to find a spot where I could cross dry shod . 
Finally , I came to a place where a single flat boulder lay near the centre , which I could reach in a stride . 
My candle went out , and I found myself floundering about in utter and absolute darkness . 
I staggered to my feet again , more amused than alarmed by my adventure . 
The candle had fallen from my hand , and was lost in the stream , but I had two others in my pocket , so that it was of no importance . 
I got one of them ready , and drew out my box of matches to light it . 
Only then did I realize my position . 
The box had been soaked in my fall into the river . 
It was impossible to strike the matches . 
A cold hand seemed to close round my heart as I realized my position . 
The darkness was opaque and horrible . 
It was so utter one put one's hand up to one's face as if to press off something solid . 
I stood still , and by an effort I steadied myself . 
I tried to reconstruct in my mind a map of the floor of the cavern as I had last seen it . 
Alas ! the bearings which had impressed themselves upon my mind were high on the wall , and not to be found by touch . 
Moving very slowly , and continually striking against the rocks , I set out on this desperate quest . 
But I very soon realized how impossible it was . 
In that black , velvety darkness one lost all one's bearings in an instant . 
Before I had made a dozen paces , I was utterly bewildered as to my whereabouts . 
The rippling of the stream , which was the one sound audible , showed me where it lay , but the moment that I left its bank I was utterly lost . 
The idea of finding my way back in absolute darkness through that limestone labyrinth was clearly an impossible one . 
I sat down upon a boulder and reflected upon my unfortunate plight . 
I had not told anyone that I proposed to come to the Blue John mine , and it was unlikely that a search party would come after me . 
Therefore I must trust to my own resources to get clear of the danger . 
There was only one hope , and that was that the matches might dry . 
When I fell into the river , only half of me had got thoroughly wet . 
My left shoulder had remained above the water . 
I took the box of matches , therefore , and put it into my left armpit . 
Meanwhile there was nothing for it but to wait . 
By good luck I had slipped several biscuits into my pocket before I left the farm house . 
These I now devoured , and washed them down with a draught from that wretched stream which had been the cause of all my misfortunes . 
I was wretchedly damp and cold , but I tried to cheer myself with the reflection that modern science prescribed open windows and walks in all weather for my disease . 
Gradually , lulled by the monotonous gurgle of the stream , and by the absolute darkness , I sank into an uneasy slumber . 
How long this lasted I cannot say . 
It may have been for an hour , it may have been for several . 
Suddenly I sat up on my rock couch , with every nerve thrilling and every sense acutely on the alert . 
Beyond all doubt I had heard a sound some sound very distinct from the gurgling of the waters . 
It had passed , but the reverberation of it still lingered in my ear . 
Was it a search party ? They would most certainly have shouted , and vague as this sound was which had wakened me , it was very distinct from the human voice . 
I sat palpitating and hardly daring to breathe . 
There it was again ! And again ! Now it had become continuous . 
It was a tread yes , surely it was the tread of some living creature . 
But what a tread it was ! It gave one the impression of enormous weight carried upon sponge like feet , which gave forth a muffled but ear filling sound . 
The darkness was as complete as ever , but the tread was regular and decisive . 
And it was coming beyond all question in my direction . 
My skin grew cold , and my hair stood on end as I listened to that steady and ponderous footfall . 
There was some creature there , and surely by the speed of its advance , it was one which could see in the dark . 
I crouched low on my rock and tried to blend myself into it . 
The steps grew nearer still , then stopped , and presently I was aware of a loud lapping and gurgling . 
The creature was drinking at the stream . 
Then again there was silence , broken by a succession of long sniffs and snorts of tremendous volume and energy . 
Had it caught the scent of me ? My own nostrils were filled by a low fetid odour , mephitic and abominable . 
Then I heard the steps again . 
They were on my side of the stream now . 
The stones rattled within a few yards of where I lay . 
Hardly daring to breathe , I crouched upon my rock . 
Then the steps drew away . 
I heard the splash as it returned across the river , and the sound died away into the distance in the direction from which it had come . 
For a long time I lay upon the rock , too much horrified to move . 
Of its nature or form I could frame no conception , save that it was both light footed and gigantic . 
The combat between my reason , which told me that such things could not be , and my senses , which told me that they were , raged within me as I lay . 
Finally , I was almost ready to persuade myself that this experience had been part of some evil dream , and that my abnormal condition might have conjured up an hallucination . 
But there remained one final experience which removed the last possibility of doubt from my mind . 
I had taken my matches from my armpit and felt them . 
They seemed perfectly hard and dry . 
Stooping down into a crevice of the rocks , I tried one of them . 
To my delight it took fire at once . 
I lit the candle , and , with a terrified backward glance into the obscure depths of the cavern , I hurried in the direction of the Roman passage . 
As I did so I passed the patch of mud on which I had seen the huge imprint . 
Then a great terror surged over me . 
It was three in the morning when I reached the farm house , and today I am all unstrung and quivering after my terrific adventure . 
As yet I have told no one . 
I must move warily in the matter . 
I was laid up in bed for two days after my incredible adventure in the cavern . 
I use the adjective with a very definite meaning , for I have had an experience since which has shocked me almost as much as the other . 
I have said that I was looking round for someone who could advise me . 
Mark Johnson who practices some few miles away , to whom I had a note of recommendation from Professor Saunderson . 
To him I drove , when I was strong enough to get about , and I recounted to him my whole strange experience . 
He listened intently , and then carefully examined me , paying special attention to my reflexes and to the pupils of my eyes . 
He was , according to my adviser , the very man who was pre eminently suited to help me . 
I went on to the station , therefore , and made my way to the little town , which is some ten miles away . 
Mr. Picton appeared to be a man of importance , as his brass plate was displayed upon the door of a considerable building on the outskirts of the town . 
Why , said he , he is the best mad doctor in Derbyshire , and yonder is his asylum . 
After all , now that I am cooler , I can afford to admit that I have been no more sympathetic to Armitage than Dr . 
Johnson has been to me . 
When I was a student I had the reputation of being a man of courage and enterprise . 
I remember that when there was a ghost hunt at Coltbridge it was I who sat up in the haunted house . 
What shall I do ? There is not an hour in the day that I do not debate the question . 
If I say nothing , then the mystery remains unsolved . 
If I do say anything , then I have the alternative of mad alarm over the whole countryside , or of absolute incredulity which may end in consigning me to an asylum . 
On the whole , I think that my best course is to wait , and to prepare for some expedition which shall be more deliberate and better thought out than the last . 
As a first step I have been to Castleton and obtained a few essentials a large acetylene lantern for one thing , and a good double barrelled sporting rifle for another . 
The latter I have hired , but I have bought a dozen heavy game cartridges , which would bring down a rhinoceros . 
Now I am ready for my troglodyte friend . 
Give me better health and a little spate of energy , and I shall try conclusions with him yet . 
But who and what is he ? Ah ! there is the question which stands between me and my sleep . 
How many theories do I form , only to discard each in turn ! It is all so utterly unthinkable . 
And yet the cry , the footmark , the tread in the cavern no reasoning can get past these I think of the old world legends of dragons and of other monsters . 
I may say that we have had cloudy and moonless nights of late , which according to my information were the seasons upon which sheep disappeared . 
Well , sheep have disappeared . 
Two of Miss Allerton's , one of old Pearson's of the Cat Walk , and one of Mrs. Moulton's . 
Four in all during three nights . 
No trace is left of them at all , and the countryside is buzzing with rumours of gipsies and of sheep stealers . 
But there is something more serious than that . 
Young Armitage has disappeared also . 
He left his moorland cottage early on Wednesday night and has never been heard of since . 
He was an unattached man , so there is less sensation than would otherwise be the case . 
The popular explanation is that he owes money , and has found a situation in some other part of the country , whence he will presently write for his belongings . 
But I have grave misgivings . 
What an inconceivable fate for a civilized Englishman of the twentieth century ! And yet I feel that it is possible and even probable . 
It must be the latter , for this morning I went down to the local police station and told my story . 
The inspector entered it all in a large book and bowed me out with commendable gravity , but I heard a burst of laughter before I had got down his garden path . 
No doubt he was recounting my adventure to his family . 
I am writing this , propped up in bed , six weeks after my last entry in this journal . 
I have gone through a terrible shock both to mind and body , arising from such an experience as has seldom befallen a human being before . 
But I have attained my end . 
The danger from the Terror which dwells in the Blue John Gap has passed never to return . 
Thus much at least I , a broken invalid , have done for the common good . 
Let me now recount what occurred as clearly as I may . 
The night of Friday , May rd , was dark and cloudy the very night for the monster to walk . 
It was a melancholy vigil . 
All down the winding valley I could see the scattered lights of the farm houses , and the church clock of Chapel le Dale tolling the hours came faintly to my ears . 
And yet there lies deep in every man a rooted self respect which makes it hard for him to turn back from that which he has once undertaken . 
This feeling of personal pride was my salvation now , and it was that alone which held me fast when every instinct of my nature was dragging me away . 
I am glad now that I had the strength . 
In spite of all that is has cost me , my manhood is at least above reproach . 
Twelve o'clock struck in the distant church , then one , then two . 
It was the darkest hour of the night . 
The clouds were drifting low , and there was not a star in the sky . 
An owl was hooting somewhere among the rocks , but no other sound , save the gentle sough of the wind , came to my ears . 
And then suddenly I heard it ! From far away down the tunnel came those muffled steps , so soft and yet so ponderous . 
I heard also the rattle of stones as they gave way under that giant tread . 
They were close upon me . 
I was paralysed with fear and amazement . 
Long as I had waited , now that it had actually come I was unprepared for the shock . 
I lay motionless and breathless , whilst the great dark mass whisked by me and was swallowed up in the night . 
But now I nerved myself for its return . 
No sound came from the sleeping countryside to tell of the horror which was loose . 
In no way could I judge how far off it was , what it was doing , or when it might be back . 
But not a second time should my nerve fail me , not a second time should it pass unchallenged . 
I swore it between my clenched teeth as I laid my cocked rifle across the rock . 
And yet it nearly happened . 
There was no warning of approach now as the creature passed over the grass . 
Suddenly , like a dark , drifting shadow , the huge bulk loomed up once more before me , making for the entrance of the cave . 
Again came that paralysis of volition which held my crooked forefinger impotent upon the trigger . 
But with a desperate effort I shook it off . 
Even as the brushwood rustled , and the monstrous beast blended with the shadow of the Gap , I fired at the retreating form . 
I had just that glance , and then I heard the rattle of the stones as the creature tore down into its burrow . 
My splendid lamp cast a brilliant flood of vivid light in front of me , very different from the yellow glimmer which had aided me down the same passage only twelve days before . 
As I ran , I saw the great beast lurching along before me , its huge bulk filling up the whole space from wall to wall . 
Its hair looked like coarse faded oakum , and hung down in long , dense masses which swayed as it moved . 
Rifle in hand , I ran at the top of my speed upon the trail of the monster . 
I had seen that the creature was swift . 
Now I was to find out to my cost that it was also very cunning . 
I had imagined that it was in panic flight , and that I had only to pursue it . 
The idea that it might turn upon me never entered my excited brain . 
I have already explained that the passage down which I was racing opened into a great central cave . 
Into this I rushed , fearful lest I should lose all trace of the beast . 
But he had turned upon his own traces , and in a moment we were face to face . 
That picture , seen in the brilliant white light of the lantern , is etched for ever upon my brain . 
For a moment his great paws swung over my head . 
The next he fell forward upon me , I and my broken lantern crashed to the earth , and I remember no more . 
When I came to myself I was back in the farm house of the Allertons . 
Two days had passed since my terrible adventure in the Blue John Gap . 
It seems that I had lain all night in the cave insensible from concussion of the brain , with my left arm and two ribs badly fractured . 
There was , it seems , no sign of the creature , and no bloodstain which would show that my bullet had found him as he passed . 
Save for my own plight and the marks upon the mud , there was nothing to prove that what I said was true . 
Six weeks have now elapsed , and I am able to sit out once more in the sunshine . 
Just opposite me is the steep hillside , grey with shaly rock , and yonder on its flank is the dark cleft which marks the opening of the Blue John Gap . 
But it is no longer a source of terror . 
Never again through that ill omened tunnel shall any strange shape flit out into the world of men . 
The educated and the scientific , the Dr . 
Johnsons and the like , may smile at my narrative , but the poorer folk of the countryside had never a doubt as to its truth . 
On the day after my recovering consciousness they assembled in their hundreds round the Blue John Gap . 
The country people had taken the matter into their own hands , and from an early hour of the morning they had worked hard in stopping up the entrance of the tunnel . 
There is a sharp slope where the shaft begins , and great boulders , rolled along by many willing hands , were thrust down it until the Gap was absolutely sealed . 
So ends the episode which has caused such excitement throughout the country . 
Local opinion is fiercely divided upon the subject . 
On the one hand are those who point to Dr . 
Hardcastle's impaired health , and to the possibility of cerebral lesions of tubercular origin giving rise to strange hallucinations . 
Some idee fixe , according to these gentlemen , caused the doctor to wander down the tunnel , and a fall among the rocks was sufficient to account for his injuries . 
On the other hand , a legend of a strange creature in the Gap has existed for some months back , and the farmers look upon Dr . 
Hardcastle's narrative and his personal injuries as a final corroboration . 
So the matter stands , and so the matter will continue to stand , for no definite solution seems to us to be now possible . 
It transcends human wit to give any scientific explanation which could cover the alleged facts . 
Perhaps before the Courier published these words they would have been wise to send their representative to me . 
Let me then write down the only explanation which seems to me to elucidate what I know to my cost to have been a series of facts . 
My theory may seem to be wildly improbable , but at least no one can venture to say that it is impossible . 
Where there is a large collection of water there must also be some evaporation , mists or rain , and a possibility of vegetation . 
For countless aeons the internal and the external creation had kept apart , growing steadily away from each other . 
Like all subterranean life , it had lost the power of sight , but this had no doubt been compensated for by nature in other directions . 
Certainly it had some means of finding its way about , and of hunting down the sheep upon the hillside . 
Perhaps , indeed , it was the glare of my lantern which saved my life at that awful moment when we were face to face . 
So I read the riddle . 
I leave these facts behind me , and if you can explain them , do so or if you choose to doubt them , do so . 
Neither your belief nor your incredulity can alter them , nor affect one whose task is nearly over . 
So ended the strange narrative of Dr . 
He died too early to realize how false his calculations had been . 
Neither my uncle nor the State took the slightest notice of me , or showed any interest in my career . 
Month by month I realized that it was more and more difficult to get the brokers to renew my bills , or to cash any further post obits upon an unentailed property . 
Ruin lay right across my path , and every day I saw it clearer , nearer , and more absolutely unavoidable . 
What made me feel my own poverty the more was that , apart from the great wealth of Lord Southerton , all my other relations were fairly well to do . 
I was expecting a rather long visit to Bankruptcy Court at the time , and this interruption seemed almost providential . 
If I could only get on terms with this unknown relative of mine , I might pull through yet . 
For the family credit he could not let me go entirely to the wall . 
I ordered my valet to pack my valise , and I set off the same evening for Clipton on the Marsh . 
, so I hired a dogcart at the local inn . 
My attention was drawn away from my driver's panegyric by the appearance of a very beautiful bird which settled on a telegraph post beside the road . 
At first I thought that it was a jay , but it was larger , with a brighter plumage . 
The driver accounted for its presence at once by saying that it belonged to the very man whom we were about to visit . 
When once we had passed the gates of Greylands Park we had ample evidence of this taste of his . 
He wore white linen clothes , in true planter style , with a cigar between his lips , and a large Panama hat upon the back of his head . 
Nothing could be more hearty than his manner , and he set me at my ease in an instant . 
But it needed all his cordiality to atone for the frigidity and even rudeness of his wife , a tall , haggard woman , who came forward at his summons . 
She was , I believe , of Brazilian extraction , though she spoke excellent English , and I excused her manners on the score of her ignorance of our customs . 
She did not attempt to conceal , however , either then or afterwards , that I was no very welcome visitor at Greylands Court . 
No pains had been spared by him to make me comfortable . 
My room was a charming one . 
He implored me to tell him anything which could add to my happiness . 
But , in spite of his cheery good nature , he was a man with a strong will and a fiery temper of his own . 
Of this I had an example upon the following morning . 
The curious aversion which Mrs. Everard King had conceived towards me was so strong , that her manner at breakfast was almost offensive . 
But her meaning became unmistakable when her husband had quitted the room . 
The best train in the day is at twelve fifteen , said she . 
But I was not thinking of going today , I answered , frankly perhaps even defiantly , for I was determined not to be driven out by this woman . 
Oh , if it rests with you said she , and stopped with a most insolent expression in her eyes . 
I am sure , I answered , that Mr. Everard King would tell me if I were outstaying my welcome . 
What's this ? What's this ? said a voice , and there he was in the room . 
He had overheard my last words , and a glance at our faces had told him the rest . 
In an instant his chubby , cheery face set into an expression of absolute ferocity . 
Might I trouble you to walk outside , Marshall ? said he . 
He closed the door behind me , and then , for an instant , I heard him talking in a low voice of concentrated passion to his wife . 
This gross breach of hospitality had evidently hit upon his tenderest point . 
I am no eavesdropper , so I walked out on to the lawn . 
Presently I heard a hurried step behind me , and there was the lady , her face pale with excitement , and her eyes red with tears . 
My husband has asked me to apologize to you , Mr. Marshall King , said she , standing with downcast eyes before me . 
Please do not say another word , Mrs. King . 
Her dark eyes suddenly blazed out at me . 
You fool ! she hissed , with frantic vehemence , and turning on her heel swept back to the house . 
The insult was so outrageous , so insufferable , that I could only stand staring after her in bewilderment . 
I was still there when my host joined me . 
He was his cheery , chubby self once more . 
I hope that my wife has apologized for her foolish remarks , said he . 
Oh , yes yes , certainly ! He put his hand through my arm and walked with me up and down the lawn . 
You must not take it seriously , said he . 
It would grieve me inexpressibly if you curtailed your visit by one hour . 
The fact is there is no reason why there should be any concealment between relatives that my poor dear wife is incredibly jealous . 
She hates that anyone male or female should for an instant come between us . 
Her ideal is a desert island and an eternal tete a tete . 
That gives you the clue to her actions , which are , I confess , upon this particular point , not very far removed from mania . 
Tell me that you will think no more of it . 
No , no certainly not . 
Then light this cigar and come round with me and see my little menagerie . 
The whole afternoon was occupied by this inspection , which included all the birds , beasts , and even reptiles which he had imported . 
Some were free , some in cages , a few actually in the house . 
Finally he led me down a corridor which extended from one wing of the house . 
A line of stout bars extended across the passage . 
I am about to show you the jewel of my collection , said he . 
There is only one other specimen in Europe , now that the Rotterdam cub is dead . 
It is a Brazilian cat . 
But how does that differ from any other cat ? You will soon see that , said he , laughing . 
It was simply a very enormous and very well kept black cat , and it cuddled up and basked in that yellow pool of light exactly as a cat would do . 
It was so graceful , so sinewy , and so gently and smoothly diabolical , that I could not take my eyes from the opening . 
Isn't he splendid ? said my host , enthusiastically . 
Glorious ! I never saw such a noble creature . 
Some people call it a black puma , but really it is not a puma at all . 
That fellow is nearly eleven feet from tail to tip . 
Four years ago he was a little ball of back fluff , with two yellow eyes staring out of it . 
He was sold me as a new born cub up in the wild country at the head waters of the Rio Negro . 
They speared his mother to death after she had killed a dozen of them . 
They are ferocious , then ? The most absolutely treacherous and bloodthirsty creatures upon earth . 
You talk about a Brazilian cat to an up country Indian , and see him get the jumps . 
They prefer humans to game . 
This fellow has never tasted living blood yet , but when he does he will be a terror . 
At present he won't stand anyone but me in his den . 
Even Baldwin , the groom , dare not go near him . 
As to me , I am his mother and father in one . 
As he spoke he suddenly , to my astonishment , opened the door and slipped in , closing it instantly behind him . 
At the sound of his voice the huge , lithe creature rose , yawned and rubbed its round , black head affectionately against his side , while he patted and fondled it . 
Now , Tommy , into your cage ! said he . 
The monstrous cat walked over to one side of the room and coiled itself up under a grating . 
Everard King came out , and taking the iron handle which I have mentioned , he began to turn it . 
When it was in position he opened the door once more and invited me into the room , which was heavy with the pungent , musty smell peculiar to the great carnivora . 
That's how we work it , said he . 
We give him the run of the room for exercise , and then at night we put him in his cage . 
You can let him out by turning the handle from the passage , or you can , as you have seen , coop him up in the same way . 
No , no , you should not do that ! I had put my hand between the bars to pat the glossy , heaving flank . 
He pulled it back , with a serious face . 
I assure you that he is not safe . 
Don't imagine that because I can take liberties with him anyone else can . 
A groom entered with a coarse joint upon a tray , and thrust it through the bars to him . 
It was a malignant and yet fascinating sight . 
The people at the Zoo are dying to have him , but I really can't part with him . 
Now , I think that I have inflicted my hobby upon you long enough , so we cannot do better than follow Tommy's example , and go to our lunch . 
My South American relative was so engrossed by his grounds and their curious occupants , that I hardly gave him credit at first for having any interests outside them . 
That he had some , and pressing ones , was soon borne in upon me by the number of telegrams which he received . 
They arrived at all hours , and were always opened by him with the utmost eagerness and anxiety upon his face . 
During the six days of my visit he had never fewer than three or four telegrams a day , and sometimes as many as seven or eight . 
I had occupied these six days so well , that by the end of them I had succeeded in getting upon the most cordial terms with my cousin . 
He was anxious to see the faster side of city life , and certainly , though I say it , he could not have chosen a more competent guide . 
It was not until the last day of my visit that I ventured to approach that which was on my mind . 
I told him frankly about my pecuniary difficulties and my impending ruin , and I asked his advice though I hoped for something more solid . 
He listened attentively , puffing hard at his cigar . 
But surely , said he , you are the heir of our relative , Lord Southerton ? I have every reason to believe so , but he would never make me any allowance . 
No , no , I have heard of his miserly ways . 
My poor Marshall , your position has been a very hard one . 
By the way , have you heard any news of Lord Southerton's health lately ? He has always been in a critical condition ever since my childhood . 
Exactly a creaking hinge , if ever there was one . 
Your inheritance may be a long way off . 
I was not sorry that my visit was drawing to a close , for it is unpleasant to feel that there is one person in the house who eagerly desires your departure . 
Mrs. King's sallow face and forbidding eyes had become more and more hateful to me . 
I heard him go round locking the doors , as custom was of a night , and finally he joined me in the billiard room . 
His stout figure was wrapped in a dressing gown , and he wore a pair of red Turkish slippers without any heels . 
Settling down into an arm chair , he brewed himself a glass of grog , in which I could not help noticing that the whisky considerably predominated over the water . 
My word ! said he , what a night ! It was , indeed . 
The wind was howling and screaming round the house , and the latticed windows rattled and shook as if they were coming in . 
The glow of the yellow lamps and the flavour of our cigars seemed the brighter and more fragrant for the contrast . 
Now , my boy , said my host , we have the house and the night to ourselves . 
Let me have an idea of how your affairs stand , and I will see what can be done to set them in order . 
I wish to hear every detail . 
Thus encouraged , I entered into a long exposition , in which all my tradesmen and creditors from my landlord to my valet , figured in turn . 
I had notes in my pocket book , and I marshalled my facts , and gave , I flatter myself , a very businesslike statement of my own unbusinesslike ways and lamentable position . 
I was depressed , however , to notice that my companion's eyes were vacant and his attention elsewhere . 
When he did occasionally throw out a remark it was so entirely perfunctory and pointless , that I was sure he had not in the least followed my remarks . 
At last he rose and threw the end of his cigar into the grate . 
I'll tell you what , my boy , said he . 
I never had a head for figures , so you will excuse me . 
You must jot it all down upon paper , and let me have a note of the amount . 
I'll understand it when I see it in black and white . 
I promised to do so . 
And now it's time we were in bed . 
By Jove , there's one o'clock striking in the hall . 
The tingling of the chiming clock broke through the deep roar of the gale . 
The wind was sweeping past with the rush of a great river . 
I must see my cat before I go to bed , said my host . 
A high wind excites him . 
Will you come ? Certainly , said I. Then tread softly and don't speak , for everyone is asleep . 
We passed quietly down the lamp lit Persian rugged hall , and through the door at the farther end . 
All was dark in the stone corridor , but a stable lantern hung on a hook , and my host took it down and lit it . 
There was no grating visible in the passage , so I knew that the beast was in its cage . 
Come in ! said my relative , and opened the door . 
A deep growling as we entered showed that the storm had really excited the creature . 
Its tail switched angrily among the straw . 
Poor Tommy is not in the best of tempers , said Everard King , holding up the lantern and looking in at him . 
What a black devil he looks , doesn't he ? I must give him a little supper to put him in a better humour . 
Would you mind holding the lantern for a moment ? I took it from his hand and he stepped to the door . 
His larder is just outside here , said he . 
You will excuse me for an instant won't you ? He passed out , and the door shut with a sharp metallic click behind him . 
That hard crisp sound made my heart stand still . 
A sudden wave of terror passed over me . 
A vague perception of some monstrous treachery turned me cold . 
I sprang to the door , but there was no handle upon the inner side . 
Let me out ! All right ! Don't make a row ! said my host from the passage . 
You've got the light all right . 
Yes , but I don't care about being locked in alone like this . 
Don't you ? I heard his hearty , chuckling laugh . 
You won't be alone long . 
Let me out , sir ! I repeated angrily . 
I tell you I don't allow practical jokes of this sort . 
Practical is the word , said he , with another hateful chuckle . 
Great God , he was letting loose the Brazilian cat ! In the light of the lantern I saw the bars sliding slowly before me . 
Already there was an opening a foot wide at the farther end . 
With a scream I seized the last bar with my hands and pulled with the strength of a madman . 
I WAS a madman with rage and horror . 
For a minute or more I held the thing motionless . 
I knew that he was straining with all his force upon the handle , and that the leverage was sure to overcome me . 
I gave inch by inch , my feet sliding along the stones , and all the time I begged and prayed this inhuman monster to save me from this horrible death . 
I conjured him by his kinship . 
I reminded him that I was his guest I begged to know what harm I had ever done him . 
His only answers were the tugs and jerks upon the handle , each of which , in spite of all my struggles , pulled another bar through the opening . 
Clinging and clutching , I was dragged across the whole front of the cage , until at last , with aching wrists and lacerated fingers , I gave up the hopeless struggle . 
The grating clanged back as I released it , and an instant later I heard the shuffle of the Turkish slippers in the passage , and the slam of the distant door . 
The creature had never moved during this time . 
He lay still in the corner , and his tail had ceased switching . 
This apparition of a man adhering to his bars and dragged screaming across him had apparently filled him with amazement . 
I saw his great eyes staring steadily at me . 
But the instant I moved , the beast gave a deep and menacing growl . 
I stopped and stood still , quivering with fear in every limb . 
was not more than ten feet from me . 
The eyes glimmered like two disks of phosphorus in the darkness . 
They appalled and yet fascinated me . 
I could not take my own eyes from them . 
Nature plays strange tricks with us at such moments of intensity , and those glimmering lights waxed and waned with a steady rise and fall . 
And then suddenly they went out altogether . 
The beast had closed its eyes . 
I stood , fearing to move lest I should rouse it into malignant life once more . 
But at least I was able to think clearly now that the baleful eyes were off me . 
Here I was shut up for the night with the ferocious beast . 
My own instincts , to say nothing of the words of the plausible villain who laid this trap for me , warned me that the animal was as savage as its master . 
How could I stave it off until morning ? The door was hopeless , and so were the narrow , barred windows . 
There was no shelter anywhere in the bare , stone flagged room . 
To cry for assistance was absurd . 
I knew that this den was an outhouse , and that the corridor which connected it with the house was at least a hundred feet long . 
Besides , with the gale thundering outside , my cries were not likely to be heard . 
I had only my own courage and my own wits to trust to . 
And then , with a fresh wave of horror , my eyes fell upon the lantern . 
The candle had burned low , and was already beginning to gutter . 
In ten minutes it would be out . 
The very thought of it paralysed me . 
I have said that the cage had a top as well as a front , and this top was left standing when the front was wound through the slot in the wall . 
It consisted of bars at a few inches' interval , with stout wire netting between , and it rested upon a strong stanchion at each end . 
It stood now as a great barred canopy over the crouching figure in the corner . 
The space between this iron shelf and the roof may have been from two or three feet . 
If I could only get up there , squeezed in between bars and ceiling , I should have only one vulnerable side . 
I should be safe from below , from behind , and from each side . 
Only on the open face of it could I be attacked . 
There , it is true , I had no protection whatever but at least , I should be out of the brute's path when he began to pace about his den . 
He would have to come out of his way to reach me . 
It was now or never , for if once the light were out it would be impossible . 
With a gulp in my throat I sprang up , seized the iron edge of the top , and swung myself panting on to it . 
I writhed in face downwards , and found myself looking straight into the terrible eyes and yawning jaws of the cat . 
Its fetid breath came up into my face like the steam from some foul pot . 
It appeared , however , to be rather curious than angry . 
One sharp , white hook tore through my trousers for I may mention that I was still in evening dress and dug a furrow in my knee . 
For my part I shuffled backwards until I lay with my back against the wall , screwing myself into the smallest space possible . 
The farther I got the more difficult it was for him to attack me . 
It was wonderful to see so great a bulk passing like a shadow , with hardly the softest thudding of velvety pads . 
The candle was burning low so low that I could hardly see the creature . 
And then , with a last flare and splutter it went out altogether . 
I was alone with the cat in the dark ! It helps one to face a danger when one knows that one has done all that possibly can be done . 
There is nothing for it then but to quietly await the result . 
In this case , there was no chance of safety anywhere except the precise spot where I was . 
I stretched myself out , therefore , and lay silently , almost breathlessly , hoping that the beast might forget my presence if I did nothing to remind him . 
I reckoned that it must already be two o'clock . 
At four it would be full dawn . 
I had not more than two hours to wait for daylight . 
Outside , the storm was still raging , and the rain lashed continually against the little windows . 
Inside , the poisonous and fetid air was overpowering . 
I could neither hear nor see the cat . 
I tried to think about other things but only one had power enough to draw my mind from my terrible position . 
That was the contemplation of my cousin's villainy , his unparalleled hypocrisy , his malignant hatred of me . 
Beneath that cheerful face there lurked the spirit of a mediaeval assassin . 
And as I thought of it I saw more clearly how cunningly the thing had been arranged . 
He had apparently gone to bed with the others . 
No doubt he had his witness to prove it . 
Then , unknown to them , he had slipped down , had lured me into his den and abandoned me . 
His story would be so simple . 
He had left me to finish my cigar in the billiard room . 
I had gone down on my own account to have a last look at the cat . 
I had entered the room without observing that the cage was opened , and I had been caught . 
Several times those greenish eyes gleamed at me through the darkness , but never in a fixed stare , and my hopes grew stronger that my presence had been forgotten or ignored . 
The cold of the morning had irritated him , and he was hungry as well . 
With a continual growl he paced swiftly up and down the side of the room which was farthest from my refuge , his whiskers bristling angrily , and his tail switching and lashing . 
As he turned at the corners his savage eyes always looked upwards at me with a dreadful menace . 
I knew then that he meant to kill me . 
And all the time that deep , threatening growl was rising and rising in an unbroken crescendo . 
I knew that the crisis was at hand . 
It was a miserable hour to meet such a death so cold , so comfortless , shivering in my light dress clothes upon this gridiron of torment upon which I was stretched . 
One thing was clear to me . 
If that front of the cage was only back in its position once more , I could find a sure refuge behind it . 
Could I possibly pull it back ? I hardly dared to move for fear of bringing the creature upon me . 
Slowly , very slowly , I put my hand forward until it grasped the edge of the front , the final bar which protruded through the wall . 
To my surprise it came quite easily to my jerk . 
Of course the difficulty of drawing it out arose from the fact that I was clinging to it . 
I pulled again , and three inches of it came through . 
It ran apparently on wheels . 
and then the cat sprang ! It was so quick , so sudden , that I never saw it happen . 
that they were coming down . 
The cat swayed there for an instant , the head and front paws quite close to me , the hind paws clawing to find a grip upon the edge of the grating . 
I heard the claws rasping as they clung to the wire netting , and the breath of the beast made me sick . 
But its bound had been miscalculated . 
It could not retain its position . 
Slowly , grinning with rage , and scratching madly at the bars , it swung backwards and dropped heavily upon the floor . 
With a growl it instantly faced round to me and crouched for another spring . 
I knew that the next few moments would decide my fate . 
The creature had learned by experience . 
It would not miscalculate again . 
I must act promptly , fearlessly , if I were to have a chance for life . 
In an instant I had formed my plan . 
Pulling off my dress coat , I threw it down over the head of the beast . 
At the same moment I dropped over the edge , seized the end of the front grating , and pulled it frantically out of the wall . 
It came more easily than I could have expected . 
I rushed across the room , bearing it with me but , as I rushed , the accident of my position put me upon the outer side . 
Had it been the other way , I might have come off scathless . 
As it was , there was a moment's pause as I stopped it and tried to pass in through the opening which I had left . 
That moment was enough to give time to the creature to toss off the coat with which I had blinded him and to spring upon me . 
I hurled myself through the gap and pulled the rails to behind me , but he seized my leg before I could entirely withdraw it . 
One stroke of that huge paw tore off my calf as a shaving of wood curls off before a plane . 
The next moment , bleeding and fainting , I was lying among the foul straw with a line of friendly bars between me and the creature which ramped so frantically against them . 
Too wounded to move , and too faint to be conscious of fear , I could only lie , more dead than alive , and watch it . 
It pressed its broad , black chest against the bars and angled for me with its crooked paws as I have seen a kitten do before a mouse trap . 
It ripped my clothes , but , stretch as it would , it could not quite reach me . 
Tracing the course of events afterwards , I conclude that I must have been insensible for about two hours . 
What roused me to consciousness once more was that sharp metallic click which had been the precursor of my terrible experience . 
It was the shooting back of the spring lock . 
Then , before my senses were clear enough to entirely apprehend what they saw , I was aware of the round , benevolent face of my cousin peering in through the open door . 
What he saw evidently amazed him . 
There was the cat crouching on the floor . 
I was stretched upon my back in my shirt sleeves within the cage , my trousers torn to ribbons and a great pool of blood all round me . 
I can see his amazed face now , with the morning sunlight upon it . 
He peered at me , and peered again . 
Then he closed the door behind him , and advanced to the cage to see if I were really dead . 
I cannot undertake to say what happened . 
I was not in a fit state to witness or to chronicle such events . 
I can only say that I was suddenly conscious that his face was away from me that he was looking towards the animal . 
Good old Tommy ! he cried . 
Good old Tommy ! Then he came near the bars , with his back still towards me . 
Down , you stupid beast ! he roared . 
My blood had done it , but he was to pay the price . 
Get away ! he screamed . 
His screams grew fainter until they were lost in the worrying snarl . 
They stalled him off with hot irons , and afterwards shot him through the loophole of the door before they could finally extricate me . 
I was carried to my bedroom , and there , under the roof of my would be murderer , I remained between life and death for several weeks . 
I have one remembrance of that illness , which might have been part of the ever changing panorama conjured up by a delirious brain were it not so definitely fixed in my memory . 
One night , when the nurse was absent , the door of my chamber opened , and a tall woman in blackest mourning slipped into the room . 
She stared intently into my face , and her expression was more kindly than I had ever seen it . 
Are you conscious ? she asked . 
I feebly nodded for I was still very weak . 
Well then , I only wished to say to you that you have yourself to blame . 
Did I not do all I could for you ? From the beginning I tried to drive you from the house . 
By every means , short of betraying my husband , I tried to save you from him . 
I knew that he had a reason for bringing you here . 
I knew that he would never let you get away again . 
No one knew him as I knew him , who had suffered from him so often . 
I did not dare to tell you all this . 
He would have killed me . 
But I did my best for you . 
As things have turned out , you have been the best friend that I have ever had . 
You have set me free , and I fancied that nothing but death would do that . 
I am sorry if you are hurt , but I cannot reproach myself . 
I told you that you were a fool and a fool you have been . 
She crept out of the room , the bitter , singular woman , and I was never destined to see her again . 
With what remained from her husband's property she went back to her native land , and I have heard that she afterwards took the veil at Pernambuco . 
It was not until I had been back in London for some time that the doctors pronounced me to be well enough to do business . 
I am very glad to see that your lordship is so much better , said he . 
I have been waiting a long time to offer my congratulations . 
What do you mean , Summers ? This is no time for joking . 
I mean what I say , he answered . 
You have been Lord Southerton for the last six weeks , but we feared that it would retard your recovery if you were to learn it . 
Lord Southerton ! One of the richest peers in England ! I could not believe my ears . 
And then suddenly I thought of the time which had elapsed , and how it coincided with my injuries . 
Then Lord Southerton must have died about the same time that I was hurt ? His death occurred upon that very day . 
Summers looked hard at me as I spoke , and I am convinced for he was a very shrewd fellow that he had guessed the true state of the case . 
He paused for a moment as if awaiting a confidence from me , but I could not see what was to be gained by exposing such a family scandal . 
Yes , a very curious coincidence , he continued , with the same knowing look . 
Of course , you are aware that your cousin Everard King was the next heir to the estates . 
No doubt , said I. And he took such an interest in it , said Summers . 
That would be about the time when you were down there . 
He was a small man , middle aged and dark , with a stoop which was so marked that it suggested some deformity of the spine . 
He was accompanied by a friend , a man of imposing physique , whose deferential manner and constant attention showed that his position was one of dependence . 
This friend or companion , whose name did not transpire , was certainly a foreigner , and probably from his swarthy complexion , either a Spaniard or a South American . 
One peculiarity was observed in him . 
No importance was attached to the fact at the time , but subsequent events endowed it with some significance . 
Monsieur Caratal was shown up to Mr. Bland's office , while his companion remained outside . 
Monsieur Caratal's business was quickly dispatched . 
He had arrived that afternoon from Central America . 
Affairs of the utmost importance demanded that he should be in Paris without the loss of an unnecessary hour . 
He had missed the London express . 
A special must be provided . 
Money was of no importance . 
If the company would speed him on his way , they might make their own terms . 
Mr. Bland struck the electric bell , summoned Mr. Potter Hood , the traffic manager , and had the matter arranged in five minutes . 
The train would start in three quarters of an hour . 
It would take that time to insure that the line should be clear . 
was attached to two carriages , with a guard's van behind . 
The first carriage was solely for the purpose of decreasing the inconvenience arising from the oscillation . 
The second was divided , as usual , into four compartments , a first class , a first class smoking , a second class , and a second class smoking . 
The first compartment , which was nearest to the engine , was the one allotted to the travellers . 
The other three were empty . 
The guard of the special train was James McPherson , who had been some years in the service of the company . 
The stoker , William Smith , was a new hand . 
Monsieur Caratal , upon leaving the superintendent's office , rejoined his companion , and both of them manifested extreme impatience to be off . 
In the meantime a singular coincidence had occurred in the office which Monsieur Caratal had just quitted . 
A request for a special is not a very uncommon circumstance in a rich commercial centre , but that two should be required upon the same afternoon was most unusual . 
It so happened , however , that Mr. Bland had hardly dismissed the first traveller before a second entered with a similar request . 
His distress and anxiety were so evident that Mr. Bland did all that was possible to meet his wishes . 
A second special was out of the question , as the ordinary local service was already somewhat deranged by the first . 
The train was his , he said , and he would insist upon the exclusive use of it . 
All argument failed to overcome his ungracious objections , and finally the plan had to be abandoned . 
Mr. Horace Moore left the station in great distress , after learning that his only course was to take the ordinary slow train which leaves Liverpool at six o'clock . 
At four thirty one exactly by the station clock the special train , containing the crippled Monsieur Caratal and his gigantic companion , steamed out of the Liverpool station . 
The line was at that time clear , and there should have been no stoppage before Manchester . 
At a quarter after six considerable surprise and some consternation were caused amongst the officials at Liverpool by the receipt of a telegram from Manchester to say that it had not yet arrived . 
An inquiry directed to St . 
Helens , which is a third of the way between the two cities , elicited the following reply To James Bland , Superintendent , Central L. W. C. , Liverpool . 
Special passed here at , well up to time . 
This telegram was received at six forty . 
At six fifty a second message was received from Manchester No sign of special as advised by you . 
And then ten minutes later a third , more bewildering Presume some mistake as to proposed running of special . 
Helens timed to follow it has just arrived and has seen nothing of it . 
The matter was assuming a most amazing aspect , although in some respects the last telegram was a relief to the authorities at Liverpool . 
If an accident had occurred to the special , it seemed hardly possible that the local train could have passed down the same line without observing it . 
A telegram was dispatched to each of the stations between St . 
The answers came back in the order of questions , which was the order of the stations beginning at the St . 
Helens end Special passed here five o'clock . 
Special passed here six past five . 
No special train has passed here . 
The two officials stared at each other in amazement . 
This is unique in my thirty years of experience , said Mr. Bland . 
Absolutely unprecedented and inexplicable , sir . 
The special has gone wrong between Kenyon Junction and Barton Moss . 
And yet there is no siding , so far as my memory serves me , between the two stations . 
The special must have run off the metals . 
But how could the four fifty parliamentary pass over the same line without observing it ? There's no alternative , Mr. Hood . 
Possibly the local train may have observed something which may throw some light upon the matter . 
We will wire to Manchester for more information , and to Kenyon Junction with instructions that the line be examined instantly as far as Barton Moss . 
The answer from Manchester came within a few minutes . 
No news of missing special . 
Driver and guard of slow train positive no accident between Kenyon Junction and Barton Moss . 
Line quite clear , and no sign of anything unusual . 
That driver and guard will have to go , said Mr. Bland , grimly . 
There has been a wreck and they have missed it . 
But Mr. Bland's prophecy was not destined to be fulfilled . 
Half an hour passed , and then there arrived the following message from the station master of Kenyon Junction There are no traces of the missing special . 
It is quite certain that she passed here , and that she did not arrive at Barton Moss . 
We have detached engine from goods train , and I have myself ridden down the line , but all is clear , and there is no sign of any accident . 
Mr. Bland tore his hair in his perplexity . 
This is rank lunacy , Hood ! he cried . 
Does a train vanish into thin air in England in broad daylight ? The thing is preposterous . 
And then at last something positive did occur . 
It took the shape of another telegram from Kenyon Junction . 
Had fallen from his engine , pitched down the embankment , and rolled among the bushes . 
Injuries to his head , from the fall , appear to be cause of death . 
Ground has now been carefully examined , and there is no trace of the missing train . 
The papers were full of these events , and the singular disappearance of the special train attracted less attention than would have been the case in more peaceful times . 
The grotesque nature of the event helped to detract from its importance , for the papers were disinclined to believe the facts as reported to them . 
convinced them of the tragedy of the incident . 
Not only was no trace found of the missing train , but no conjecture could be put forward which could possibly explain the facts . 
served to show that the possibilities were more numerous than might have been expected . 
In the stretch of railway between these two points , said he , the country is dotted with ironworks and collieries . 
Of these , some are being worked and some have been abandoned . 
There are no fewer than twelve which have small gauge lines which run trolly cars down to the main line . 
These can , of course , be disregarded . 
In every case these lines are only a few miles in length . 
Out of the seven , four belong to collieries which are worked out , or at least to shafts which are no longer used . 
These are the Redgauntlet , Hero , Slough of Despond , and Heartsease mines , the latter having ten years ago been one of the principal mines in Lancashire . 
To the Big Ben Colliery To the Perseverance Colliery . 
Of these the Big Ben line is not more than a quarter of a mile long , and ends at a dead wall of coal waiting removal from the mouth of the mine . 
Nothing had been seen or heard there of any special . 
The Carnstock Iron Works line was blocked all day upon the rd of June by sixteen truckloads of hematite . 
It is a single line , and nothing could have passed . 
As to the Perseverance line , it is a large double line , which does a considerable traffic , for the output of the mine is very large . 
It may be remarked in conclusion that this branch line is nearer to St . 
Helens than the point at which the engine driver was discovered , so that we have every reason to believe that the train was past that point before misfortune overtook her . 
As to John Slater , there is no clue to be gathered from his appearance or injuries . 
In conclusion , the inspector offered his resignation to the Board , being much nettled by an accusation of incompetence in the London papers . 
A month elapsed , during which both the police and the company prosecuted their inquiries without the slightest success . 
A reward was offered and a pardon promised in case of crime , but they were both unclaimed . 
Others fixed upon his swarthy companion as being the author of the mischief , but what it was exactly which he had done could never be clearly formulated in words . 
Amongst the many suggestions put forward by various newspapers or private individuals , there were one or two which were feasible enough to attract the attention of the public . 
An extract must suffice , although the curious can see the whole letter in the issue of the rd of July . 
It is one of the elementary principles of practical reasoning , he remarked , that when the impossible has been eliminated the residuum , HOWEVER IMPROBABLE , must contain the truth . 
It is certain that the train left Kenyon Junction . 
It is certain that it did not reach Barton Moss . 
It is in the highest degree unlikely , but still possible , that it may have taken one of the seven available side lines . 
Is there a secret society of colliers , an English Camorra , which is capable of destroying both train and passengers ? It is improbable , but it is not impossible . 
I confess that I am unable to suggest any other solution . 
I should certainly advise the company to direct all their energies towards the observation of those three lines , and of the workmen at the end of them . 
A careful supervision of the pawnbrokers' shops of the district might possibly bring some suggestive facts to light . 
The only answer to this criticism was a challenge to the objectors to lay any more feasible explanations before the public . 
In reply to this two others were forthcoming . 
This suggestion was thrown out of court by the published depth of the canal , which was entirely insufficient to conceal so large an object . 
The obvious absurdity , however , of supposing that the whole train might be blown to dust while the metals remained uninjured reduced any such explanation to a farce . 
The investigation had drifted into this hopeless position when a new and most unexpected incident occurred . 
This was nothing less than the receipt by Mrs. McPherson of a letter from her husband , James McPherson , who had been the guard on the missing train . 
The letter , which was dated July th , , was posted from New York and came to hand upon July th . 
I try to fight against it , but it will always come back to me . 
I send you some money which will change into twenty English pounds . 
This should be enough to bring both Lizzie and you across the Atlantic , and you will find the Hamburg boats which stop at Southampton very good boats , and cheaper than Liverpool . 
So no more at present , from your loving husband , James McPherson . 
Mrs. McPherson and her sister Lizzie Dolton went across to New York as directed and stayed for three weeks at the Johnston House , without hearing anything from the missing man . 
It is probable that some injudicious comments in the Press may have warned him that the police were using them as a bait . 
However , this may be , it is certain that he neither wrote nor came , and the women were eventually compelled to return to Liverpool . 
And so the matter stood , and has continued to stand up to the present year of . 
It may be added that no information came from Paris as to what the objects of Monsieur Caratal's hurried journey may have been . 
Take warning , messieurs , before it is too late ! You know Herbert de Lernac , and you are aware that his deeds are as ready as his words . 
I was true to my employers then , and no doubt they will be true to me now . 
I hope so , and until I am convinced that they have betrayed me , these names , which would convulse Europe , shall not be divulged . 
How monstrous that scandal was can never be known save by such confidential agents as myself . 
The honour and careers of many of the chief men in France were at stake . 
You have seen a group of ninepins standing , all so rigid , and prim , and unbending . 
Then there comes the ball from far away and pop , pop , pop there are your ninepins on the floor . 
Well , imagine some of the greatest men in France as these ninepins and then this Monsieur Caratal was the ball which could be seen coming from far away . 
If he arrived , then it was pop , pop , pop for all of them . 
It was determined that he should not arrive . 
I do not accuse them all of being conscious of what was to happen . 
There were , as I have said , great financial as well as political interests at stake , and a syndicate was formed to manage the business . 
Some subscribed to the syndicate who hardly understood what were its objects . 
But others understood very well , and they can rely upon it that I have not forgotten their names . 
They had ample warning that Monsieur Caratal was coming long before he left South America , and they knew that the evidence which he held would certainly mean ruin to all of them . 
The syndicate had the command of an unlimited amount of money absolutely unlimited , you understand . 
They looked round for an agent who was capable of wielding this gigantic power . 
The man chosen must be inventive , resolute , adaptive a man in a million . 
They chose Herbert de Lernac , and I admit that they were right . 
My duties were to choose my subordinates , to use freely the power which money gives , and to make certain that Monsieur Caratal should never arrive in Paris . 
A man whom I could trust was dispatched instantly to South America to travel home with Monsieur Caratal . 
Had he arrived in time the ship would never have reached Liverpool but alas ! it had already started before my agent could reach it . 
I fitted out a small armed brig to intercept it , but again I was unfortunate . 
Like all great organizers I was , however , prepared for failure , and had a series of alternatives prepared , one or the other of which must succeed . 
You must not underrate the difficulties of my undertaking , or imagine that a mere commonplace assassination would meet the case . 
We must destroy not only Monsieur Caratal , but Monsieur Caratal's documents , and Monsieur Caratal's companions also , if we had reason to believe that he had communicated his secrets to them . 
And you must remember that they were on the alert , and keenly suspicious of any such attempt . 
It was a task which was in every way worthy of me , for I am always most masterful where another would be appalled . 
We prepared six plans , each more elaborate than the last which plan would be used would depend upon his own movements . 
Do what he would , we were ready for him . 
If he had stayed in Liverpool , we were ready . 
If he took an ordinary train , an express , or a special , all was ready . 
Everything had been foreseen and provided for . 
You may imagine that I could not do all this myself . 
I will mention no names , but it would be unjust to claim all the credit for myself . 
My English ally was worthy of such an alliance . 
He knew the London and West Coast line thoroughly , and he had the command of a band of workers who were trustworthy and intelligent . 
The idea was his , and my own judgement was only required in the details . 
We bought over several officials , amongst whom the most important was James McPherson , whom we had ascertained to be the guard most likely to be employed upon a special train . 
Smith , the stoker , was also in our employ . 
John Slater , the engine driver , had been approached , but had been found to be obstinate and dangerous , so we desisted . 
It was for this contingency , therefore , that we made special preparations preparations which were complete down to the last detail long before his steamer had sighted the shores of England . 
You will be amused to learn that there was one of my agents in the pilot boat which brought that steamer to its moorings . 
The moment that Caratal arrived in Liverpool we knew that he suspected danger and was on his guard . 
He had brought with him as an escort a dangerous fellow , named Gomez , a man who carried weapons , and was prepared to use them . 
This fellow carried Caratal's confidential papers for him , and was ready to protect either them or his master . 
The probability was that Caratal had taken him into his counsels , and that to remove Caratal without removing Gomez would be a mere waste of energy . 
It was necessary that they should be involved in a common fate , and our plans to that end were much facilitated by their request for a special train . 
I do not go so far as to say that the English are more honest than any other nation , but I have found them more expensive to buy . 
I have already spoken of my English agent who is a man with a considerable future before him , unless some complaint of the throat carries him off before his time . 
He had charge of all arrangements at Liverpool , whilst I was stationed at the inn at Kenyon , where I awaited a cipher signal to act . 
When the special was arranged for , my agent instantly telegraphed to me and warned me how soon I should have everything ready . 
If , for example , our great coup had failed , it would then have become the duty of my agent to have shot them both and destroyed their papers . 
Caratal was on his guard , however , and refused to admit any other traveller . 
My agent then left the station , returned by another entrance , entered the guard's van on the side farthest from the platform , and travelled down with McPherson the guard . 
In the meantime you will be interested to know what my movements were . 
Everything had been prepared for days before , and only the finishing touches were needed . 
The side line which we had chosen had once joined the main line , but it had been disconnected . 
We had only to replace a few rails to connect it once more . 
With my small but competent band of workers , we had everything ready long before the special arrived . 
When it did arrive , it ran off upon the small side line so easily that the jolting of the points appears to have been entirely unnoticed by the two travellers . 
Our plan had been that Smith , the stoker , should chloroform John Slater , the driver , so that he should vanish with the others . 
In this respect , and in this respect only , our plans miscarried I except the criminal folly of McPherson in writing home to his wife . 
The criminal expert will find in John Slater the one flaw in all our admirable combinations . 
You will ask how it is that no one saw the train upon this unused line . 
There WAS someone on the edge of that cutting . 
And now I will tell you what I saw . 
My assistant had remained at the points in order that he might superintend the switching off of the train . 
Having once seen it safely on the side line , he handed over the responsibility to me . 
I was waiting at a point which overlooks the mouth of the mine , and I was also armed , as were my two companions . 
Come what might , you see , I was always ready . 
It makes me smile to think how bewildered they must have been . 
But the train was running with frantic speed , rolling and rocking over the rotten line , while the wheels made a frightful screaming sound upon the rusted surface . 
I was close to them , and could see their faces . 
Caratal was praying , I think there was something like a rosary dangling out of his hand . 
The other roared like a bull who smells the blood of the slaughter house . 
He saw us standing on the bank , and he beckoned to us like a madman . 
Then he tore at his wrist and threw his dispatch box out of the window in our direction . 
Of course , his meaning was obvious . 
Here was the evidence , and they would promise to be silent if their lives were spared . 
It would have been very agreeable if we could have done so , but business is business . 
Besides , the train was now as much beyond our controls as theirs . 
He ceased howling when the train rattled round the curve and they saw the black mouth of the mine yawning before them . 
We had removed the boards which had covered it , and we had cleared the square entrance . 
In fact , as the lengths would not quite fit , our line projected about three feet over the edge . 
We saw the two heads at the window Caratal below , Gomez above but they had both been struck silent by what they saw . 
And yet they could not withdraw their heads . 
The sight seemed to have paralysed them . 
I had wondered how the train running at a great speed would take the pit into which I had guided it , and I was much interested in watching it . 
One of my colleagues thought that it would actually jump it , and indeed it was not very far from doing so . 
Fortunately , however , it fell short , and the buffers of the engine struck the other lip of the shaft with a tremendous crash . 
The funnel flew off into the air . 
Then the vapour shredded off into thin wisps , which floated away in the summer sunshine , and all was quiet again in the Heartsease mine . 
And now , having carried out our plans so successfully , it only remained to leave no trace behind us . 
Our little band of workers at the other end had already ripped up the rails and disconnected the side line , replacing everything as it had been before . 
We were equally busy at the mine . 
The funnel and other fragments were thrown in , the shaft was planked over as it used to be , and the lines which led to it were torn up and taken away . 
Let the English papers of that date tell how throughly we had done our work , and how completely we had thrown the cleverest of their detectives off our track . 
You will remember that Gomez threw his bag of papers out of the window , and I need not say that I secured that bag and brought them to my employers . 
It may interest my employers now , however , to learn that out of that bag I took one or two little papers as a souvenir of the occasion . 
I promise you that in the next edition there will be no blanks to fill . 
P. S. As I look over my statement there is only one omission which I can see . 
It concerns the unfortunate man McPherson , who was foolish enough to write to his wife and to make an appointment with her in New York . 
Having once broken his oath by writing to his wife , we could not trust him any more . 
We took steps therefore to insure that he should not see his wife . 
I have sometimes thought that it would be a kindness to write to her and to assure her that there is no impediment to her marrying again . 
The Beetle Hunter A curious experience ? said the Doctor . 
Yes , my friends , I have had one very curious experience . 
I never expect to have another , for it is against all doctrines of chances that two such events would befall any one man in a single lifetime . 
You may believe me or not , but the thing happened exactly as I tell it . 
I had just become a medical man , but I had not started in practice , and I lived in rooms in Gower Street . 
A widow named Murchison kept the house at that time , and she had three medical students and one engineer as lodgers . 
I occupied the top room , which was the cheapest , but cheap as it was it was more than I could afford . 
My small resources were dwindling away , and every week it became more necessary that I should find something to do . 
I had almost given the fight up and resigned myself to being a medical drudge for life , when the turning point of my struggles came in a very extraordinary way . 
One morning I had picked up the Standard and was glancing over its contents . 
It was worded in this way Wanted for one or more days the services of a medical man . 
It is essential that he should be a man of strong physique , of steady nerves , and of a resolute nature . 
Must be an entomologist coleopterist preferred . 
Apply , in person , at B , Brook Street . 
Application must be made before twelve o'clock today . 
Now , I have already said that I was devoted to zoology . 
Of all branches of zoology , the study of insects was the most attractive to me , and of all insects beetles were the species with which I was most familiar . 
Butterfly collectors are numerous , but beetles are far more varied , and more accessible in these islands than are butterflies . 
It was this fact which had attracted my attention to them , and I had myself made a collection which numbered some hundred varieties . 
As to the other requisites of the advertisement , I knew that my nerves could be depended upon , and I had won the weight throwing competition at the inter hospital sports . 
Clearly , I was the very man for the vacancy . 
Within five minutes of my having read the advertisement I was in a cab and on my was to Brook Street . 
As I drove , I kept turning the matter over in my head and trying to make a guess as to what sort of employment it could be which needed such curious qualifications . 
The man fears to fail who has to pay for his failure , but there was no penalty which Fortune could exact from me . 
I was like the gambler with empty pockets , who is still allowed to try his luck with the others . 
As I alighted from the cab , a young man came out of the door and walked swiftly down the street . 
Full of hope , I ascended the broad steps and rapped with the heavy knocker . 
A footman in powder and livery opened the door . 
Clearly I was in touch with the people of wealth and fashion . 
Yes , sir ? said the footman . 
I came in answer to Quite so , sir , said the footman . 
Lord Linchmere will see you at once in the library . 
Lord Linchmere ! I had vaguely heard the name , but could not for the instant recall anything about him . 
He looked me up and down with a very shrewd , penetrating glance , holding the card which the footman had given him in his right hand . 
Then he smiled pleasantly , and I felt that externally at any rate I possessed the qualifications which he desired . 
You have come in answer to my advertisement , Dr . 
Do you fulfil the conditions which are there laid down ? I believe that I do . 
You are a powerful man , or so I should judge from your appearance . 
I think that I am fairly strong . 
And resolute ? I believe so . 
Have you ever known what it was to be exposed to imminent danger ? No , I don't know that I ever have . 
But you think you would be prompt and cool at such a time ? I hope so . 
Well , I believe that you would . 
I have the more confidence in you because you do not pretend to be certain as to what you would do in a position that was new to you . 
My impression is that , so far as personal qualities go , you are the very man of whom I am in search . 
That being settled , we may pass on to the next point . 
Which is ? To talk to me about beetles . 
I am afraid that you do not know about beetles , he cried . 
On the contrary , sir , it is the one scientific subject about which I feel that I really do know something . 
I am overjoyed to hear it . 
Please talk to me about beetles . 
What ! not a collector ? cried Lord Linchmere . 
You don't mean that you are yourself a collector ? His eyes danced with pleasure at the thought . 
You are certainly the very man in London for my purpose . 
I thought that among five millions of people there must be such a man , but the difficulty is to lay one's hands upon him . 
I have been extraordinarily fortunate in finding you . 
He rang a gong upon the table , and the footman entered . 
Ask Lady Rossiter to have the goodness to step this way , said his lordship , and a few moments later the lady was ushered into the room . 
She was a small , middle aged woman , very like Lord Linchmere in appearance , with the same quick , alert features and grey black hair . 
The expression of anxiety , however , which I had observed upon his face was very much more marked upon hers . 
Some great grief seemed to have cast its shadow over her features . 
As Lord Linchmere presented me she turned her face full upon me , and I was shocked to observe a half healed scar extending for two inches over her right eyebrow . 
It was partly concealed by plaster , but none the less I could see that it had been a serious wound and not long inflicted . 
Hamilton is the very man for our purpose , Evelyn , said Lord Linchmere . 
He is actually a collector of beetles , and he has written articles upon the subject . 
Really ! said Lady Rossiter . 
Then you must have heard of my husband . 
Everyone who knows anything about beetles must have heard of Sir Thomas Rossiter . 
For the first time a thin little ray of light began to break into the obscure business . 
Here , at last , was a connection between these people and beetles . 
Sir Thomas Rossiter he was the greatest authority upon the subject in the world . 
He had made it his lifelong study , and had written a most exhaustive work upon it . 
I hastened to assure her that I had read and appreciated it . 
Have you met my husband ? she asked . 
No , I have not . 
But you shall , said Lord Linchmere , with decision . 
The lady was standing beside the desk , and she put her hand upon his shoulder . 
It was obvious to me as I saw their faces together that they were brother and sister . 
Are you really prepared for this , Charles ? It is noble of you , but you fill me with fears . 
Her voice quavered with apprehension , and he appeared to me to be equally moved , though he was making strong efforts to conceal his agitation . 
Yes , yes , dear it is all settled , it is all decided in fact , there is no other possible way , that I can see . 
There is one obvious way . 
No , no , Evelyn , I shall never abandon you never . 
It will come right depend upon it it will come right , and surely it looks like the interference of Providence that so perfect an instrument should be put into our hands . 
My position was embarrassing , for I felt that for the instant they had forgotten my presence . 
But Lord Linchmere came back suddenly to me and to my engagement . 
The business for which I want you , Dr . 
Hamilton , is that you should put yourself absolutely at my disposal . 
That is a good deal to ask , said I. Unfortunately I cannot put it more plainly , for I do not myself know what turn matters may take . 
If it ends happily , said the lady . 
Exactly if it ends happily , his lordship repeated . 
And terms ? I asked . 
I was amazed at the sum , and must have showed my surprise upon my features . 
Besides , it is possible that one or two days may bring the matter to an end . 
Please God ! sighed his sister . 
Hamilton , may I rely upon your aid ? Most undoubtedly , said I. You have only to tell me what my duties are . 
Your first duty will be to return to your home . 
You will pack up whatever you may need for a short visit to the country . 
We start together from Paddington Station at this afternoon . 
Do we go far ? As far as Pangbourne . 
Meet me at the bookstall at . 
I shall have the tickets . 
Hamilton ! And , by the way , there are two things which I should be very glad if you would bring with you , in case you have them . 
One is your case for collecting beetles , and the other is a stick , and the thicker and heavier the better . 
You may imagine that I had plenty to think of from the time that I left Brook Street until I set out to meet Lord Linchmere at Paddington . 
And yet I felt that the truth must be something grotesquely improbable also . 
At last I gave up all attempts at finding a solution , and contented myself with exactly carrying out the instructions which I had received . 
With a hand valise , specimen case , and a loaded cane , I was waiting at the Paddington bookstall when Lord Linchmere arrived . 
He was an even smaller man than I had thought frail and peaky , with a manner which was more nervous than it had been in the morning . 
He wore a long , thick travelling ulster , and I observed that he carried a heavy blackthorn cudgel in his hand . 
I have the tickets , said he , leading the way up the platform . 
I have engaged a carriage , for I am particularly anxious to impress one or two things upon you while we travel down . 
This he repeated again and again as our journey drew to a close , with an insistence which showed that his nerves were thoroughly shaken . 
Yes , he said at last , in answer to my looks rather than to my words , I AM nervous , Dr . 
I have always been a timid man , and my timidity depends upon my frail physical health . 
But my soul is firm , and I can bring myself up to face a danger which a less nervous man might shrink from . 
What I am doing now is done from no compulsion , but entirely from a sense of duty , and yet it is , beyond doubt , a desperate risk . 
If things should go wrong , I will have some claims to the title of martyr . 
This eternal reading of riddles was too much for me . 
I felt that I must put a term to it . 
As to the exact object of our visit , I do not know that at this stage of the proceedings anything would be gained , Dr . 
Hamilton , by taking you into my complete confidence . 
That being so , you can understand that I am loth to give any explanations which are not absolutely necessary . 
It would be a different matter , Dr . 
Hamilton , if I were asking your advice . 
As matters stand , it is only your active help which I need , and I will indicate to you from time to time how you can best give it . 
He wished to convert me into a passive tool , like the blackthorn in his hand . 
I must trust to my own eyes and ears to solve the mystery , but I had every confidence that I should not trust to them in vain . 
Delamere Court lies a good five miles from Pangbourne Station , and we drove for that distance in an open fly . 
Lord Linchmere sat in deep thought during the time , and he never opened his mouth until we were close to our destination . 
When he did speak it was to give me a piece of information which surprised me . 
Perhaps you are not aware , said he , that I am a medical man like yourself ? No , sir , I did not know it . 
Yes , I qualified in my younger days , when there were several lives between me and the peerage . 
I have not had occasion to practise , but I have found it a useful education , all the same . 
I never regretted the years which I devoted to medical study . 
These are the gates of Delamere Court . 
We had come to two high pillars crowned with heraldic monsters which flanked the opening of a winding avenue . 
My eyes were still fixed in admiration upon this delightful house when my companion plucked nervously at my sleeve . 
Here's Sir Thomas , he whispered . 
Please talk beetle all you can . 
A tall , thin figure , curiously angular and bony , had emerged through a gap in the hedge of laurels . 
In his hand he held a spud , and he wore gauntleted gardener's gloves . 
A broad brimmed , grey hat cast his face into shadow , but it struck me as exceedingly austere , with an ill nourished beard and harsh , irregular features . 
The fly pulled up and Lord Linchmere sprang out . 
My dear Thomas , how are you ? said he , heartily . 
But the heartiness was by no means reciprocal . 
The owner of the grounds glared at me over his brother in law's shoulder , and I caught broken scraps of sentences well known wishes . 
Then there was a muttered explanation , and the two of them came over together to the side of the fly . 
Let me present you to Sir Thomas Rossiter , Dr . 
Hamilton , said Lord Linchmere . 
You will find that you have a strong community of tastes . 
Sir Thomas stood very stiffly , looking at me severely from under the broad brim of his hat . 
Lord Linchmere tells me that you know something about beetles , said he . 
What do you know about beetles ? I know what I have learned from your work upon the coleoptera , Sir Thomas , I answered . 
Give me the names of the better known species of the British scarabaei , said he . 
I had not expected an examination , but fortunately I was ready for one . 
My answers seemed to please him , for his stern features relaxed . 
You appear to have read my book with some profit , sir , said he . 
It is a rare thing for me to meet anyone who takes an intelligent interest in such matters . 
People can find time for such trivialities as sport or society , and yet the beetles are overlooked . 
I am glad to see you , sir , and I have no doubt that I can show you some specimens which will interest you . 
I have said that Sir Thomas Rossiter wore a large hat drawn down over his brows . 
As he entered the hall he uncovered himself , and I was at once aware of a singular characteristic which the hat had concealed . 
His forehead , which was naturally high , and higher still on account of receding hair , was in a continual state of movement . 
Some nervous weakness kept the muscles in a constant spasm , which sometimes produced a mere twitching and sometimes a curious rotary movement unlike anything which I had ever seen before . 
I am sorry , said he , that Lady Rossiter is not here to help me to welcome you . 
By the way , Charles , did Evelyn say anything about the date of her return ? She wished to stay in town for a few more days , said Lord Linchmere . 
You know how ladies' social duties accumulate if they have been for some time in the country . 
My sister has many old friends in London at present . 
Well , she is her own mistress , and I should not wish to alter her plans , but I shall be glad when I see her again . 
It is very lonely here without her company . 
I was afraid that you might find it so , and that was partly why I ran down . 
My young friend , Dr . 
Hamilton , is so much interested in the subject which you have made your own , that I thought you would not mind his accompanying me . 
I lead a retired life , Dr . 
Hamilton , and my aversion to strangers grows upon me , said our host . 
I have sometimes thought that my nerves are not so good as they were . 
My travels in search of beetles in my younger days took me into many malarious and unhealthy places . 
And so no doubt it was . 
All the time Lord Linchmere said nothing , but he stood at his brother in law's elbow , and I caught him continually shooting curious little , questioning glances into his face . 
And his own features expressed some strong emotion , apprehension , sympathy , expectation I seemed to read them all . 
I was sure that Lord Linchmere was fearing something and awaiting something , but what that something might be I could not imagine . 
The evening passed quietly but pleasantly , and I should have been entirely at my ease if it had not been for that continual sense of tension upon the part of Lord Linchmere . 
As to our host , I found that he improved upon acquaintance . 
He spoke constantly with affection of his absent wife , and also of his little son , who had recently been sent to school . 
The house , he said , was not the same without them . 
If it were not for his scientific studies , he did not know how he could get through the days . 
After dinner we smoked for some time in the billiard room , and finally went early to bed . 
And then it was that , for the first time , the suspicion that Lord Linchmere was a lunatic crossed my mind . 
He followed me into my bedroom , when our host had retired . 
Doctor , said he , speaking in a low , hurried voice , you must come with me . 
You must spend the night in my bedroom . 
What do you mean ? I prefer not to explain . 
But this is part of your duties . 
My room is close by , and you can return to your own before the servant calls you in the morning . 
But why ? I asked . 
Because I am nervous of being alone , said he . 
That's the reason , since you must have a reason . 
It seemed rank lunacy , but the argument of those twenty pounds would overcome many objections . 
I followed him to his room . 
Well , said I , there's only room for one in that bed . 
Only one shall occupy it , said he . 
And the other ? Must remain on watch . 
Why ? said I. One would think you expected to be attacked . 
In that case , why not lock your door ? Perhaps I WANT to be attacked . 
It looked more and more like lunacy . 
However , there was nothing for it but to submit . 
I shrugged my shoulders and sat down in the arm chair beside the empty fireplace . 
I am to remain on watch , then ? said I , ruefully . 
We will divide the night . 
If you will watch until two , I will watch the remainder . 
Call me at two o'clock , then . 
Keep your ears open , and if you hear any sounds wake me instantly instantly , you hear ? You can rely upon it . 
I tried to look as solemn as he did . 
And for God's sake don't go to sleep , said he , and so , taking off only his coat , he threw the coverlet over him and settled down for the night . 
It was a melancholy vigil , and made more so by my own sense of its folly . 
Still , however absurd , I was determined to carry out his injunctions to the letter as long as I was in his employment . 
I sat , therefore , beside the empty fireplace , and listened to a sonorous chiming clock somewhere down the passage which gurgled and struck every quarter of an hour . 
It was an endless vigil . 
Save for that single clock , an absolute silence reigned throughout the great house . 
A small lamp stood on the table at my elbow , throwing a circle of light round my chair , but leaving the corners of the room draped in shadow . 
On the bed Lord Linchmere was breathing peacefully . 
From down the passage came the chimes of two o'clock , and I laid my hand upon the shoulder of the sleeper . 
Instantly he was sitting up , with an expression of the keenest interest upon his face . 
You have heard something ? No , sir . 
You can go to sleep . 
I lay down under the coverlet as he had done and was soon unconscious . 
My last recollection was of that circle of lamplight , and of the small , hunched up figure and strained , anxious face of Lord Linchmere in the centre of it . 
How long I slept I do not know but I was suddenly aroused by a sharp tug at my sleeve . 
The room was in darkness , but a hot smell of oil told me that the lamp had only that instant been extinguished . 
Quick ! Quick ! said Lord Linchmere's voice in my ear . 
I sprang out of bed , he still dragging at my arm . 
Over here ! he whispered , and pulled me into a corner of the room . 
Hush ! Listen ! In the silence of the night I could distinctly hear that someone was coming down the corridor . 
It was a stealthy step , faint and intermittent , as of a man who paused cautiously after every stride . 
Sometimes for half a minute there was no sound , and then came the shuffle and creak which told of a fresh advance . 
My companion was trembling with excitement . 
His hand , which still held my sleeve , twitched like a branch in the wind . 
What is it ? I whispered . 
It's he ! Sir Thomas ? Yes . 
What does he want ? Hush ! Do nothing until I tell you . 
I was conscious now that someone was trying the door . 
There was the faintest little rattle from the handle , and then I dimly saw a thin slit of subdued light . 
There was a lamp burning somewhere far down the passage , and it just sufficed to make the outside visible from the darkness of our room . 
The greyish slit grew broader and broader , very gradually , very gently , and then outlined against it I saw the dark figure of a man . 
He was squat and crouching , with the silhouette of a bulky and misshapen dwarf . 
Slowly the door swung open with this ominous shape framed in the centre of it . 
I was so paralysed with amazement that I stood motionless and staring until I was aroused by a yell for help from my companion . 
I sprang to the rescue , and the two of us managed to throw Sir Thomas to the ground , though he made his teeth meet in my shoulder . 
With their aid we had no further difficulty in securing our prisoner , who lay foaming and glaring upon the ground . 
Do not use any violence ! said Lord Linchmere , as we raised the struggling man to his feet . 
He will have a period of stupor after this excitement . 
I believe that it is coming on already . 
As he spoke the convulsions became less violent , and the madman's head fell forward upon his breast , as if he were overcome by sleep . 
We led him down the passage and stretched him upon his own bed , where he lay unconscious , breathing heavily . 
Two of you will watch him , said Lord Linchmere . 
Hamilton , if you will return with me to my room , I will give you the explanation which my horror of scandal has perhaps caused me to delay too long . 
Come what may , you will never have cause to regret your share in this night's work . 
The case may be made clear in a very few words , he continued , when we were alone . 
He has more than once had homicidal outbreaks , which are the more painful because his inclination is always to attack the very person to whom he is most attached . 
It is often , as you know , a characteristic of such maladies that it is absolutely impossible to convince the man who suffers from them of their existence . 
Our great object was , of course , to get him under restraint before he could stain his hands with blood , but the matter was full of difficulty . 
He is a recluse in his habits , and would not see any medical man . 
Besides , it was necessary for our purpose that the medical man should convince himself of his insanity and he is sane as you or I , save on these very rare occasions . 
But , fortunately , before he has these attacks he always shows certain premonitory symptoms , which are providential danger signals , warning us to be upon our guard . 
The chief of these is that nervous contortion of the forehead which you must have observed . 
This is a phenomenon which always appears from three to four days before his attacks of frenzy . 
The moment it showed itself his wife came into town on some pretext , and took refuge in my house in Brook Street . 
It remained for me to convince a medical man of Sir Thomas's insanity , without which it was impossible to put him where he could do no harm . 
The first problem was how to get a medical man into his house . 
I bethought me of his interest in beetles , and his love for anyone who shared his tastes . 
I advertised , therefore , and was fortunate enough to find in you the very man I wanted . 
I think your intelligence will supply all the rest . 
I am a very nervous man myself , but I saw no other way in which I could remove this terrible danger from my sister's life . 
I need not ask you whether you are willing to sign the lunacy papers . 
But TWO signatures are necessary . 
You forget that I am myself a holder of a medical degree . 
I have the papers on a side table here , so if you will be good enough to sign them now , we can have the patient removed in the morning . 
has , however , thrown some new and clear light upon the matter . 
Before laying it before the public it would be as well , perhaps , that I should refresh their memories as to the singular facts upon which this commentary is founded . 
These facts were briefly as follows At five o'clock on the evening of the th of March in the year already mentioned a train left Euston Station for Manchester . 
In spite of the inclement evening it was , therefore , fairly well filled upon the occasion of which I speak . 
The guard of the train was a tried servant of the company a man who had worked for twenty two years without a blemish or complaint . 
His name was John Palmer . 
The one was an exceptionally tall man , dressed in a long black overcoat with astrakhan collar and cuffs . 
I have already said that the evening was an inclement one , and the tall traveller had the high , warm collar turned up to protect his throat against the bitter March wind . 
In one hand he carried a brown leather Gladstone bag . 
His companion was a lady , tall and erect , walking with a vigorous step which outpaced the gentleman beside her . 
She wore a long , fawn coloured dust cloak , a black , close fitting toque , and a dark veil which concealed the greater part of her face . 
The two might very well have passed as father and daughter . 
They walked swiftly down the line of carriages , glancing in at the windows , until the guard , John Palmer , overtook them . 
Now then , sir , look sharp , the train is going , said he . 
First class , the man answered . 
The guard turned the handle of the nearest door . 
In the carriage which he had opened , there sat a small man with a cigar in his mouth . 
His appearance seems to have impressed itself upon the guard's memory , for he was prepared , afterwards , to describe or to identify him . 
He glanced up as the door was opened . 
The tall man paused with his foot upon the step . 
This is a smoking compartment . 
The lady dislikes smoke , said he , looking round at the guard . 
All right ! Here you are , sir ! said John Palmer . 
He slammed the door of the smoking carriage , opened that of the next one , which was empty , and thrust the two travellers in . 
At the same moment he sounded his whistle and the wheels of the train began to move . 
Palmer stepped into the guard's van , as it came up to him , and thought no more of the incident . 
Twelve minutes after its departure the train reached Willesden Junction , where it stopped for a very short interval . 
An examination of the tickets has made it certain that no one either joined or left it at this time , and no passenger was seen to alight upon the platform . 
At the journey to Manchester was resumed , and Rugby was reached at , the express being five minutes late . 
At Rugby the attention of the station officials was drawn to the fact that the door of one of the first class carriages was open . 
An examination of that compartment , and of its neighbour , disclosed a remarkable state of affairs . 
The smoking carriage in which the short , red faced man with the black beard had been seen was now empty . 
Save for a half smoked cigar , there was no trace whatever of its recent occupant . 
The door of this carriage was fastened . 
In the next compartment , to which attention had been originally drawn , there was no sign either of the gentleman with the astrakhan collar or of the young lady who accompanied him . 
All three passengers had disappeared . 
He lay with his knees drawn up , and his head resting against the farther door , an elbow upon either seat . 
A bullet had penetrated his heart and his death must have been instantaneous . 
It was clear , then , that whatever motives may have led to his death , robbery was not among them . 
As already mentioned , there were no markings upon the man's linen , which appeared to be new , and no tailor's name upon his coat . 
In appearance he was young , short , smooth cheeked , and delicately featured . 
One of his front teeth was conspicuously stopped with gold . 
On the discovery of the tragedy an examination was instantly made of the tickets of all passengers , and the number of the passengers themselves was counted . 
It was found that only three tickets were unaccounted for , corresponding to the three travellers who were missing . 
The express was then allowed to proceed , but a new guard was sent with it , and John Palmer was detained as a witness at Rugby . 
The carriage which included the two compartments in question was uncoupled and side tracked . 
That crime had been committed was certain . 
The bullet , which appeared to have come from a small pistol or revolver , had been fired from some little distance , as there was no scorching of the clothes . 
, nor was there any sign of the brown leather bag which the guard had seen in the hand of the tall gentleman . 
A lady's parasol was found upon the rack , but no other trace was to be seen of the travellers in either of the sections . 
John Palmer , the guard was able at the inquest to give some evidence which threw a little light upon the matter . 
At that place it might be possible for a man , or even for an exceptionally active woman , to have left the train without serious injury . 
A steep embankment would instantly screen anyone who sprang out from the observation of the navvies . 
It was by no means uncommon for a gentleman to finish his cigar in a smoking carriage and then to change to a clearer atmosphere . 
, he would naturally go into the nearest section , which would bring him into the company of the two other actors in this drama . 
Thus the first stage of the affair might be surmised without any great breach of probability . 
But what the second stage had been , or how the final one had been arrived at , neither the guard nor the experienced detective officers could suggest . 
A careful examination of the line between Willesden and Rugby resulted in one discovery which might or might not have a bearing upon the tragedy . 
Near Tring , at the very place where the train slowed down , there was found at the bottom of the embankment a small pocket Testament , very shabby and worn . 
It was printed by the Bible Society of London , and bore an inscription From John to Alice . 
th , , upon the fly leaf . 
July th , , and beneath that again Edward . 
st , , all the entries being in the same handwriting . 
Advertisement , rewards , and inquiries proved equally fruitless , and nothing could be found which was solid enough to form the basis for a profitable investigation . 
It would be a mistake , however , to suppose that no theories were formed to account for the facts . 
On the contrary , the Press , both in England and in America , teemed with suggestions and suppositions , most of which were obviously absurd . 
When coupled with generalities as to the ferocity and cunning of anarchical and other secret societies , this theory sounded as plausible as any . 
The fact that he should be without a ticket would be consistent with the idea of concealment , and it was well known that women played a prominent part in the Nihilistic propaganda . 
The police had little difficulty in showing that such a theory would not cover the facts , but they were unprepared in the absence of evidence to advance any alternative explanation . 
There was a letter in the Daily Gazette , over the signature of a well known criminal investigator , which gave rise to considerable discussion at the time . 
He had formed a hypothesis which had at least ingenuity to recommend it , and I cannot do better than append it in his own words . 
In the absence of data we must abandon the analytic or scientific method of investigation , and must approach it in the synthetic fashion . 
In a word , instead of taking known events and deducing from them what has occurred , we must build up a fanciful explanation if it will only be consistent with known events . 
We can then test this explanation by any fresh facts which may arise . 
Now , there is one most remarkable and suggestive fact which has not met with the attention which it deserves . 
The two trains would at that time be travelling in the same direction at a similar rate of speed and upon parallel lines . 
It is within every one's experience how , under such circumstances , the occupant of each carriage can see very plainly the passengers in the other carriages opposite to him . 
The lamps of the express had been lit at Willesden , so that each compartment was brightly illuminated , and most visible to an observer from outside . 
Now , the sequence of events as I reconstruct them would be after this fashion . 
This young man with the abnormal number of watches was alone in the carriage of the slow train . 
His ticket , with his papers and gloves and other things , was , we will suppose , on the seat beside him . 
He was probably an American , and also probably a man of weak intellect . 
The excessive wearing of jewellery is an early symptom in some forms of mania . 
going at the same pace as himself , he suddenly saw some people in it whom he knew . 
We will suppose for the sake of our theory that these people were a woman whom he loved and a man whom he hated and who in return hated him . 
The young man was excitable and impulsive . 
is by no means so perilous as it might appear . 
It is possible that the pair were also Americans , which is the more probable as the man carried a weapon an unusual thing in England . 
If our supposition of incipient mania is correct , the young man is likely to have assaulted the other . 
As the upshot of the quarrel the elder man shot the intruder , and then made his escape from the carriage , taking the young lady with him . 
We will suppose that all this happened very rapidly , and that the train was still going at so slow a pace that it was not difficult for them to leave it . 
A woman might leave a train going at eight miles an hour . 
As a matter of fact , we know that this woman DID do so . 
And now we have to fit in the man in the smoking carriage . 
Presuming that we have , up to this point , reconstructed the tragedy correctly , we shall find nothing in this other man to cause us to reconsider our conclusions . 
I acknowledge that there are some difficulties in the way . 
At first sight , it might seem improbable that at such a moment a murderer would burden himself in his flight with a brown leather bag . 
My answer is that he was well aware that if the bag were found his identity would be established . 
It was absolutely necessary for him to take it with him . 
If such a ticket were found my case is proved . 
If not , my theory may still be the correct one , for it is conceivable either that he travelled without a ticket or that his ticket was lost . 
So perished the only satisfying explanation , and five years have elapsed without supplying a new one . 
Now , at last , there comes a statement which covers all the facts , and which must be regarded as authentic . 
It took the shape of a letter dated from New York , and addressed to the same criminal investigator whose theory I have quoted . 
It is given here in extenso , with the exception of the two opening paragraphs , which are personal in their nature You'll excuse me if I'm not very free with names . 
There's less reason now than there was five years ago when mother was still living . 
But for all that , I had rather cover up our tracks all I can . 
But I owe you an explanation , for if your idea of it was wrong , it was a mighty ingenious one all the same . 
I'll have to go back a little so as you may understand all about it . 
My people came from Bucks , England , and emigrated to the States in the early fifties . 
They settled in Rochester , in the State of New York , where my father ran a large dry goods store . 
There were only two sons myself , James , and my brother , Edward . 
I was ten years older than my brother , and after my father died I sort of took the place of a father to him , as an elder brother would . 
He was a bright , spirited boy , and just one of the most beautiful creatures that ever lived . 
But there was always a soft spot in him , and it was like mould in cheese , for it spread and spread , and nothing that you could do would stop it . 
I did all I could to hold him in , and he hated me for my pains . 
At last he fairly got his head , and nothing that we could do would stop him . 
He got off into New York , and went rapidly from bad to worse . 
He had formed a friendship with Sparrow MacCoy , who was at the head of his profession as a bunco steerer , green goodsman and general rascal . 
They took to card sharping , and frequented some of the best hotels in New York . 
, and he would take the parts of a young Englishman of title , of a simple lad from the West , or of a college undergraduate , whichever suited Sparrow MacCoy's purpose . 
And nothing would have stopped them if they had only stuck to cards and New York , but they must needs come up Rochester way , and forge a name upon a cheque . 
It was my brother that did it , though everyone knew that it was under the influence of Sparrow MacCoy . 
I bought up that cheque , and a pretty sum it cost me . 
Then I went to my brother , laid it before him on the table , and swore to him that I would prosecute if he did not clear out of the country . 
At first he simply laughed . 
I could not prosecute , he said , without breaking our mother's heart , and he knew that I would not do that . 
His manner and appearance were so good that he won the old man over at once , and within a week he was sent off to London with a case full of samples . 
But I knew that this man Sparrow MacCoy had a great influence over Edward and my chance of keeping the lad straight lay in breaking the connection between them . 
I had a friend in the New York detective force , and through him I kept a watch upon MacCoy . 
In an instant I had resolved to go also , and to pit my influence against MacCoy's . 
I knew it was a losing fight , but I thought , and my mother thought , that it was my duty . 
I was a fellow traveller , on the steamship , with Sparrow MacCoy , and at least I had the satisfaction of spoiling his little game for the voyage . 
He was settling down for his harvest , and a rich one it would have been . 
But I soon changed all that . 
Gentlemen , said I , are you aware whom you are playing with ? What's that to you ? You mind your own business ! said he , with an oath . 
Who is it , anyway ? asked one of the dudes . 
He's Sparrow MacCoy , the most notorious card sharper in the States . 
Gaol and the gallows wait for violence and murder , and there's no slipping out by the back door on board an ocean liner . 
Prove your words , you ! said he . 
I will ! said I. If you will turn up your right shirt sleeve to the shoulder , I will either prove my words or I will eat them . 
He turned white and said not a word . 
It is by means of this clip that they withdraw from their hands the cards which they do not want , while they substitute other cards from another hiding place . 
I reckoned on it being there , and it was . 
He cursed me , slunk out of the saloon , and was hardly seen again during the voyage . 
For once , at any rate , I got level with Mister Sparrow MacCoy . 
But he soon had his revenge upon me , for when it came to influencing my brother he outweighed me every time . 
Edward had kept himself straight in London for the first few weeks , and had done some business with his American watches , until this villain came across his path once more . 
I did my best , but the best was little enough . 
The first I learned of it was in the evening paper , and I was at once certain that my brother and MacCoy were back at their old games . 
I hurried at once to Edward's lodgings . 
had gone off together , and that he had left the lodgings and taken his things with him . 
The landlady had heard them give several directions to the cabman , ending with Euston Station , and she had accidentally overheard the tall gentleman saying something about Manchester . 
She believed that that was their destination . 
A glance at the time table showed me that the most likely train was at five , though there was another at which they might have caught . 
I had only time to get the later one , but found no sign of them either at the depot or in the train . 
They must have gone on by the earlier one , so I determined to follow them to Manchester and search for them in the hotels there . 
One last appeal to my brother by all that he owed to my mother might even now be the salvation of him . 
My nerves were overstrung , and I lit a cigar to steady them . 
At that moment , just as the train was moving off , the door of my compartment was flung open , and there were MacCoy and my brother on the platform . 
They were both disguised , and with good reason , for they knew that the London police were after them . 
MacCoy had a great astrakhan collar drawn up , so that only his eyes and nose were showing . 
I started up , and as I did so MacCoy recognized me . 
He said something , the conductor slammed the door , and they were shown into the next compartment . 
I tried to stop the train so as to follow them , but the wheels were already moving , and it was too late . 
When we stopped at Willesden , I instantly changed my carriage . 
It appears that I was not seen to do so , which is not surprising , as the station was crowded with people . 
That is what I fancy , for I had never found him so impossible to soften or to move . 
Why don't you run a Sunday school ? he would say to me , and then , in the same breath He thinks you have no will of your own . 
He thinks you are just the baby brother and that he can lead you where he likes . 
He's only just finding out that you are a man as well as he . 
It was those words of his which set me talking bitterly . 
We had left Willesden , you understand , for all this took some time . 
My temper got the better of me , and for the first time in my life I let my brother see the rough side of me . 
Perhaps it would have been better had I done so earlier and more often . 
A man ! said I. Well , I'm glad to have your friend's assurance of it , for no one would suspect it to see you like a boarding school missy . 
I don't suppose in all this country there is a more contemptible looking creature than you are as you sit there with that Dolly pinafore upon you . 
He coloured up at that , for he was a vain man , and he winced from ridicule . 
It's only a dust cloak , said he , and he slipped it off . 
One has to throw the coppers off one's scent , and I had no other way to do it . 
He took his toque off with the veil attached , and he put both it and the cloak into his brown bag . 
Anyway , I don't need to wear it until the conductor comes round , said he . 
Nor then , either , said I , and taking the bag I slung it with all my force out of the window . 
Now , said I , you'll never make a Mary Jane of yourself while I can help it . 
If nothing but that disguise stands between you and a gaol , then to gaol you shall go . 
That was the way to manage him . 
I felt my advantage at once . 
His supple nature was one which yielded to roughness far more readily than to entreaty . 
He flushed with shame , and his eyes filled with tears . 
But MacCoy saw my advantage also , and was determined that I should not pursue it . 
He's my pard , and you shall not bully him , he cried . 
Oh , you would squeal , would you ? he cried , and in an instant he whipped out his revolver . 
I sprang for his hand , but saw that I was too late , and jumped aside . 
At the same instant he fired , and the bullet which would have struck me passed through the heart of my unfortunate brother . 
MacCoy still held the loaded revolver in his hand , but his anger against me and my resentment towards him had both for the moment been swallowed up in this sudden tragedy . 
It was he who first realized the situation . 
The train was for some reason going very slowly at the moment , and he saw his opportunity for escape . 
At the bottom I struck my head against a stone , and I remembered nothing more . 
When I came to myself I was lying among some low bushes , not far from the railroad track , and somebody was bathing my head with a wet handkerchief . 
I guess I couldn't leave you , said he . 
I didn't want to have the blood of two of you on my hands in one day . 
You loved your brother , I've no doubt but you didn't love him a cent more than I loved him , though you'll say that I took a queer way to show it . 
Anyhow , it seems a mighty empty world now that he is gone , and I don't care a continental whether you give me over to the hangman or not . 
His ticket was in MacCoy's pocket , and so was the ticket for some baggage which they had left at the depot . 
Anyhow , I have seen nothing about it in the London papers . 
As to the watches , they were a selection from those which had been intrusted to him for business purposes . 
It may have been for the same business purposes that he was taking them to Manchester , but well , it's too late to enter into that . 
I don't blame the police for being at fault . 
I don't see how it could have been otherwise . 
There was just one little clue that they might have followed up , but it was a small one . 
I mean that small , circular mirror which was found in my brother's pocket . 
It is not hard to say whether you see a man or raise him when you know his cards as well as your own . 
It was as much a part of a sharper's outfit as the elastic clip upon Sparrow MacCoy's arm . 
Taking that , in connection with the recent frauds at the hotels , the police might have got hold of one end of the string . 
I don't think there is much more for me to explain . 
My mother died six months afterwards , and I am glad to say that to the day of her death she never knew what happened . 
She was always under the delusion that Edward was earning an honest living in London , and I never had the heart to tell her the truth . 
He never wrote but , then , he never did write at any time , so that made no difference . 
His name was the last upon her lips . 
You remember that Testament that was picked up . 
I always carried it in my inside pocket , and it must have come out in my fall . 
I value it very highly , for it was the family book with my birth and my brother's marked by my father in the beginning of it . 
I wish you would apply at the proper place and have it sent to me . 
It can be of no possible value to anyone else . 
If you address it to X , Bassano's Library , Broadway , New York , it is sure to come to hand . 
The Japanned Box It WAS a curious thing , said the private tutor one of those grotesque and whimsical incidents which occur to one as one goes through life . 
I lost the best situation which I am ever likely to have through it . 
But I am glad that I went to Thorpe Place , for I gained well , as I tell you the story you will learn what I gained . 
I don't know whether you are familiar with that part of the Midlands which is drained by the Avon . 
It is the most English part of England . 
Shakespeare , the flower of the whole race , was born right in the middle of it . 
It is a land of rolling pastures , rising in higher folds to the westwards , until they swell into the Malvern Hills . 
There are no towns , but numerous villages , each with its grey Norman church . 
You have left the brick of the southern and eastern counties behind you , and everything is stone stone for the walls , and lichened slabs of stone for the roofs . 
It is all grim and solid and massive , as befits the heart of a great nation . 
Sir John was a widower his wife had died three years before and he had been left with these two lads aged eight and ten , and one dear little girl of seven . 
Miss Witherton , who is now my wife , was governess to this little girl . 
I was tutor to the two boys . 
Could there be a more obvious prelude to an engagement ? She governs me now , and I tutor two little boys of our own . 
But the modern wing was bright and the garden was well kept . 
No house could be dismal which had a pretty girl inside it and such a show of roses in front . 
Apart from a very complete staff of servants there were only four of us in the household . 
We four always had our meals together , but Sir John had his usually alone in the library . 
Sometimes he joined us at dinner , but on the whole we were just as glad when he did not . 
For he was a very formidable person . 
He had grey eyes , weary , hopeless looking eyes , proud and yet pathetic , eyes which claimed your pity and yet dared you to show it . 
His back was rounded with study , but otherwise he was as fine a looking man of his age five and fifty perhaps as any woman would wish to look upon . 
But his presence was not a cheerful one . 
He was always courteous , always refined , but singularly silent and retiring . 
I have never lived so long with any man and known so little of him . 
If he were indoors he spent his time either in his own small study in the Eastern Tower , or in the library in the modern wing . 
So regular was his routine that one could always say at any hour exactly where he would be . 
Twice in the day he would visit his study , once after breakfast , and once about ten at night . 
You might set your watch by the slam of the heavy door . 
Indeed , we all did that . 
As to the governess , she knew no more than I did , and our common interest was one of the causes which drew us together . 
At last , however , an incident occurred which led to a closer acquaintance with Mr. Richards and a fuller knowledge of the life of the man whom I served . 
One moment ! Step in here ! Let me have the details ! said he , turning back through the open door . 
An old carpet , a single chair , a deal table , and a small shelf of books made up the whole contents . 
On the table stood a full length photograph of a woman I took no particular notice of the features , but I remember , that a certain gracious gentleness was the prevailing impression . 
Beside it were a large black japanned box and one or two bundles of letters or papers fastened together with elastic bands . 
Our interview was a short one , for Sir John Bollamore perceived that I was soaked , and that I should change without delay . 
The incident led , however , to an instructive talk with Richards , the agent , who had never penetrated into the chamber which chance had opened to me . 
That very afternoon he came to me , all curiosity , and walked up and down the garden path with me , while my two charges played tennis upon the lawn beside us . 
You hardly realize the exception which has been made in your favour , said he . 
Why do you say relapsed ? I asked . 
He looked at me in surprise . 
Is it possible , said he , that Sir John Bollamore's previous history is unknown to you ? Absolutely . 
I thought that every man in England knew something of his antecedents . 
I always took it for granted that you knew that you were in the service of Devil' Bollamore . 
But why Devil' ? I asked . 
Ah , you are young and the world moves fast , but twenty years ago the name of Devil' Bollamore was one of the best known in London . 
He was the leader of the fastest set , bruiser , driver , gambler , drunkard a survival of the old type , and as bad as the worst of them . 
I stared at him in amazement . 
What ! I cried , that quiet , studious , sad faced man ? The greatest rip and debauchee in England ! All between ourselves , Colmore . 
But you understand now what I mean when I say that a woman's voice in his room might even now give rise to suspicions . 
But what can have changed him so ? Little Beryl Clare , when she took the risk of becoming his wife . 
That was the turning point . 
He had got so far that his own fast set had thrown him over . 
There is a world of difference , you know , between a man who drinks and a drunkard . 
They all drink , but they taboo a drunkard . 
He had become a slave to it hopeless and helpless . 
You have observed that no liquor is ever kept in the house . 
There never has been any since her foot crossed its threshold . 
A drop of it would be like blood to a tiger even now . 
Then her influence still holds him ? That is the wonder of it . 
When she died three years ago , we all expected and feared that he would fall back into his old ways . 
She feared it herself , and the thought gave a terror to death , for she was like a guardian angel to that man , and lived only for the one purpose . 
By the way , did you see a black japanned box in his room ? Yes . 
I fancy it contains her letters . 
If ever he has occasion to be away , if only for a single night , he invariably takes his black japanned box with him . 
Well , well , Colmore , perhaps I have told you rather more than I should , but I shall expect you to reciprocate if anything of interest should come to your knowledge . 
I could see that the worthy man was consumed with curiosity and just a little piqued that I , the newcomer , should have been the first to penetrate into the untrodden chamber . 
But the fact raised me in his esteem , and from that time onwards I found myself upon more confidential terms with him . 
And now the silent and majestic figure of my employer became an object of greater interest to me . 
I began to understand that strangely human look in his eyes , those deep lines upon his care worn face . 
In some subtle way he divined the sympathy which I had for him , and he showed in his own silent fashion that he appreciated it . 
In spite of these close relations I was never again asked to enter the chamber in the turret . 
And then came my revulsion of feeling . 
A single incident changed all my sympathy to loathing , and made me realize that my employer still remained all that he had ever been , with the additional vice of hypocrisy . 
What happened was as follows . 
The drive sweeps round under the eastern turret , and I observed as I passed that the light was lit in the circular room . 
It was a summer evening , and the window , which was a little higher than our heads , was open . 
It was a voice the voice undoubtedly of a woman . 
It spoke hurriedly , gaspingly for a few sentences , and then was silent a piteous , breathless , imploring sort of voice . 
Miss Witherton and I stood for an instant staring at each other . 
Then we walked quickly in the direction of the hall door . 
It came through the window , I said . 
We must not play the part of eavesdroppers , she answered . 
We must forget that we have ever heard it . 
There was an absence of surprise in her manner which suggested a new idea to me . 
You have heard it before , I cried . 
I could not help it . 
My own room is higher up on the same turret . 
Who can the woman be ? I have no idea . 
I had rather not discuss it . 
Her voice was enough to show me what she thought . 
She certainly did not live there . 
But in that case where did she come from ? It could not be anyone of the household . 
They were all under the vigilant eyes of Mrs. Stevens . 
The visitor must come from without . 
But how ? And then suddenly I remembered how ancient this building was , and how probable that some mediaeval passage existed in it . 
There is hardly an old castle without one . 
The mysterious room was the basement of the turret , so that if there were anything of the sort it would open through the floor . 
There were numerous cottages in the immediate vicinity . 
The other end of the secret passage might lie among some tangle of bramble in the neighbouring copse . 
I said nothing to anyone , but I felt that the secret of my employer lay within my power . 
And the more convinced I was of this the more I marvelled at the manner in which he concealed his true nature . 
But there was the female voice , there was the secret nightly rendezvous in the turret chamber how could such facts admit of an innocent interpretation . 
I conceived a horror of the man . 
I was filled with loathing at his deep , consistent hypocrisy . 
Only once during all those months did I ever see him without that sad but impassive mask which he usually presented towards his fellow man . 
For an instant I caught a glimpse of those volcanic fires which he had damped down so long . 
It was the snarl of a furious wild beast . 
Then I heard his voice thrilling with anger . 
You would dare ! he cried . 
You would dare to disobey my directions ! An instant later the charwoman passed me , flying down the passage , white faced and tremulous , while the terrible voice thundered behind her . 
What is the matter , Mrs. Brown ? I asked . 
It's master ! she gasped . 
Oh , 'ow 'e frightened me ! If you had seen 'is eyes , Mr. Colmore , sir . 
I thought 'e would 'ave been the death of me . 
But what had you done ? Done , sir ! Nothing . 
At least nothing to make so much of . 
Just laid my 'and on that black box of 'is 'adn't even opened it , when in 'e came and you 'eard the way 'e went on . 
I've lost my place , and glad I am of it , for I would never trust myself within reach of 'im again . 
So it was the japanned box which was the cause of this outburst the box from which he would never permit himself to be separated . 
And now I wish to tell you the singular chance which solved all these strange questions and put my employer's secret in my possession . 
The story may leave you with some lingering doubts as to whether my curiosity did not get the better of my honour , and whether I did not condescend to play the spy . 
If you choose to think so I cannot help it , but can only assure you that , improbable as it may appear , the matter came about exactly as I describe it . 
The first stage in this denouement was that the small room in the turret became uninhabitable . 
This occurred through the fall of the worm eaten oaken beam which supported the ceiling . 
Rotten with age , it snapped in the middle one morning , and brought down a quantity of plaster with it . 
Fortunately Sir John was not in the room at the time . 
His precious box was rescued from amongst the debris and brought into the library , where , henceforward , it was locked within his bureau . 
Sir John took no steps to repair the damage , and I never had an opportunity of searching for that secret passage , the existence of which I had surmised . 
I could not catch her reply , but I saw from her manner that it was not the first time that she had had to answer or avoid the same question . 
You've heard the voice , Colmore ? said the agent . 
I confessed that I had . 
And what do YOU think of it ? I shrugged my shoulders , and remarked that it was no business of mine . 
Come , come , you are just as curious as any of us . 
Is it a woman or not ? It is certainly a woman . 
Which room did you hear it from ? From the turret room , before the ceiling fell . 
But I heard it from the library only last night . 
I passed the doors as I was going to bed , and I heard something wailing and praying just as plainly as I hear you . 
It may be a woman Why , what else COULD it be ? He looked at me hard . 
There are more things in heaven and earth , said he . 
If it is a woman , how does she get there ? I don't know . 
He turned away , but I saw that he felt even more than he had said . 
To all the old ghost stories of Thorpe Place a new one was being added before our very eyes . 
It may by this time have taken its permanent place , for though an explanation came to me , it never reached the others . 
And my explanation came in this way . 
I had suffered a sleepless night from neuralgia , and about midday I had taken a heavy dose of chlorodyne to alleviate the pain . 
At that time I was finishing the indexing of Sir John Bollamore's library , and it was my custom to work there from five till seven . 
On this particular day I struggled against the double effect of my bad night and the narcotic . 
I have already mentioned that there was a recess in the library , and in this it was my habit to work . 
I settled down steadily to my task , but my weariness overcame me and , falling back upon the settee , I dropped into a heavy sleep . 
How long I slept I do not know , but it was quite dark when I awoke . 
Confused by the chlorodyne which I had taken , I lay motionless in a semi conscious state . 
The great room with its high walls covered with books loomed darkly all round me . 
A dim radiance from the moonlight came through the farther window , and against this lighter background I saw that Sir John Bollamore was sitting at his study table . 
His well set head and clearly cut profile were sharply outlined against the glimmering square behind him . 
He bent as I watched him , and I heard the sharp turning of a key and the rasping of metal upon metal . 
I never realized it never occurred to my bemuddled and torpid brain that I was intruding upon his privacy , that he imagined himself to be alone in the room . 
Yes , it was a woman's voice there could not be a doubt of it . 
But a voice so charged with entreaty and with yearning love , that it will ring for ever in my ears . 
It came with a curious faraway tinkle , but every word was clear , though faint very faint , for they were the last words of a dying woman . 
I am not really gone , John , said the thin , gasping voice . 
I am here at your very elbow , and shall be until we meet once more . 
I die happy to think that morning and night you will hear my voice . 
Oh , John , be strong , be strong , until we meet again . 
I say that I had risen in order to announce my presence , but I could not do so while the voice was sounding . 
I could only remain half lying , half sitting , paralysed , astounded , listening to those yearning distant musical words . 
And he he was so absorbed that even if I had spoken he might not have heard me . 
But with the silence of the voice came my half articulated apologies and explanations . 
Mr. Colmore ! he cried . 
You here ! What is the meaning of this , sir ? With halting words I explained it all , my neuralgia , the narcotic , my luckless sleep and singular awakening . 
As he listened the glow of anger faded from his face , and the sad , impassive mask closed once more over his features . 
My secret is yours , Mr. Colmore , said he . 
I have only myself to blame for relaxing my precautions . 
Half confidences are worse than no confidences , and so you may know all since you know so much . 
The story may go where you will when I have passed away , but until then I rely upon your sense of honour that no human soul shall hear it from your lips . 
I am proud still God help me ! or , at least , I am proud enough to resent that pity which this story would draw upon me . 
I have smiled at envy , and disregarded hatred , but pity is more than I can tolerate . 
You have heard the source from which the voice comes that voice which has , as I understand , excited so much curiosity in my household . 
I am aware of the rumours to which it has given rise . 
These speculations , whether scandalous or superstitious , are such as I can disregard and forgive . 
What I should never forgive would be a disloyal spying and eavesdropping in order to satisfy an illicit curiosity . 
But of that , Mr. Colmore , I acquit you . 
I drank deeply of the wine of life if there is a man living who has drunk more deeply he is not a man whom I envy . 
My purse suffered , my character suffered , my constitution suffered , stimulants became a necessity to me , I was a creature from whom my memory recoils . 
But a fell disease struck her , and she withered away before my eyes . 
In the hour of her agony it was never of herself , of her own sufferings and her own death that she thought . 
It was all of me . 
The one pang which her fate brought to her was the fear that when her influence was removed I should revert to that which I had been . 
It was in vain that I made oath to her that no drop of wine would ever cross my lips . 
She sent me to London to procure the best which money could buy . 
With her dying breath she gasped into it the words which have held me straight ever since . 
Lonely and broken , what else have I in all the world to uphold me ? But it is enough . 
The Black Doctor Bishop's Crossing is a small village lying ten miles in a south westerly direction from Liverpool . 
Here in the early seventies there settled a doctor named Aloysius Lana . 
Nothing was known locally either of his antecedents or of the reasons which had prompted him to come to this Lancashire hamlet . 
His predominant features were , however , European , and he possessed a stately courtesy and carriage which suggested a Spanish extraction . 
For the newcomer proved himself to be a capable surgeon and an accomplished physician . 
Lana , with his advantages of presence and of manner , soon beat him out of the field . 
Lana's social success was as rapid as his professional . 
A remarkable surgical cure in the case of the Hon . 
An absence of antecedents and of relatives is sometimes an aid rather than an impediment to social advancement , and the distinguished individuality of the handsome doctor was its own recommendation . 
His patients had one fault and one fault only to find with him . 
He appeared to be a confirmed bachelor . 
This was the more remarkable since the house which he occupied was a large one , and it was known that his success in practice had enabled him to save considerable sums . 
At first the local matchmakers were continually coupling his name with one or other of the eligible ladies , but as years passed and Dr . 
Lana remained unmarried , it came to be generally understood that for some reason he must remain a bachelor . 
And , then , just as the matchmakers had finally given him up in despair , his engagement was suddenly announced to Miss Frances Morton , of Leigh Hall . 
Miss Morton was a young lady who was well known upon the country side , her father , James Haldane Morton , having been the Squire of Bishop's Crossing . 
Both her parents were , however , dead , and she lived with her only brother , Arthur Morton , who had inherited the family estate . 
In person Miss Morton was tall and stately , and she was famous for her quick , impetuous nature and for her strength of character . 
Lana at a garden party , and a friendship , which quickly ripened into love , sprang up between them . 
Nothing could exceed their devotion to each other . 
The engagement was in February , and it was arranged that the marriage should take place in August . 
Upon the rd of June Dr . 
Lana received a letter from abroad . 
It was the first letter which he had ever known Dr . 
Lana to have from abroad and this was the reason why his attention was particularly called to it before he handed it to the local postman . 
It was delivered by the evening delivery of that date . 
Next morning that is , upon the th of June Dr . 
Lana called upon Miss Morton , and a long interview followed , from which he was observed to return in a state of great agitation . 
Miss Morton remained in her room all that day , and her maid found her several times in tears . 
In the course of a week it was an open secret to the whole village that the engagement was at an end , that Dr . 
Lana had behaved shamefully to the young lady , and that Arthur Morton , her brother , was talking of horse whipping him . 
Lana was thinking of abandoning the scene of his success . 
Some detail is necessary to cause the facts of that evening to present their full significance . 
The sole occupants of the doctor's house were his housekeeper , an elderly and most respectable woman , named Martha Woods , and a young servant Mary Pilling . 
The coachman and the surgery boy slept out . 
It was the custom of the doctor to sit at night in his study , which was next the surgery in the wing of the house which was farthest from the servants' quarters . 
On this particular night Martha Woods went into the doctor's study at half past nine , and found him writing at his desk . 
She bade him good night , sent the maid to bed , and then occupied herself until a quarter to eleven in household matters . 
It was striking eleven upon the hall clock when she went to her own room . 
She had been there about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes when she heard a cry or call , which appeared to come from within the house . 
She waited some time , but it was not repeated . 
Much alarmed , for the sound was loud and urgent , she put on a dressing gown , and ran at the top of her speed to the doctor's study . 
Who's there ? cried a voice , as she tapped at the door . 
I am here , sir Mrs. Woods . 
I beg that you will leave me in peace . 
Go back to your room this instant ! cried the voice , which was , to the best of her belief , that of her master . 
The tone was so harsh and so unlike her master's usual manner , that she was surprised and hurt . 
I thought I heard you calling , sir , she explained , but no answer was given to her . 
Mrs. Woods looked at the clock as she returned to her room , and it was then half past eleven . 
a patient called upon the doctor and was unable to get any reply from him . 
This late visitor was Mrs. Madding , the wife of the village grocer , who was dangerously ill of typhoid fever . 
Lana had asked her to look in the last thing and let him know how her husband was progressing . 
There is a short , winding drive with a lamp at the end of it leading down from the house to the road . 
As Mrs. Madding emerged from the gate a man was coming along the footpath . 
Thinking that it might be Dr . 
Lana returning from some professional visit , she waited for him , and was surprised to see that it was Mr. Arthur Morton , the young squire . 
In the light of the lamp she observed that his manner was excited , and that he carried in his hand a heavy hunting crop . 
He was turning in at the gate when she addressed him . 
The doctor is not in , sir , said she . 
How do you know that ? he asked harshly . 
I have been to the surgery door , sir . 
I see a light , said the young squire , looking up the drive . 
That is in his study , is it not ? Yes , sir but I am sure that he is out . 
Well , he must come in again , said young Morton , and passed through the gate while Mrs. Madding went upon her homeward way . 
At three o'clock that morning her husband suffered a sharp relapse , and she was so alarmed by his symptoms that she determined to call the doctor without delay . 
As she passed through the gate she was surprised to see someone lurking among the laurel bushes . 
It was certainly a man , and to the best of her belief Mr. Arthur Morton . 
Preoccupied with her own troubles , she gave no particular attention to the incident , but hurried on upon her errand . 
When she reached the house she perceived to her surprise that the light was still burning in the study . 
She therefore tapped at the surgery door . 
She repeated the knocking several times without effect . 
She tapped at the study window , therefore , but without result . 
Then , finding that there was an opening between the curtain and the woodwork , she looked through . 
The small room was brilliantly lighted from a large lamp on the central table , which was littered with the doctor's books and instruments . 
No one was visible , nor did she see anything unusual , except that in the farther shadow thrown by the table a dingy white glove was lying upon the carpet . 
At the side of the table , away from the window , Dr . 
Lana was discovered stretched upon his back and quite dead . 
It was evident that he had been subjected to violence , for one of his eyes was blackened and there were marks of bruises about his face and neck . 
A slight thickening and swelling of his features appeared to suggest that the cause of his death had been strangulation . 
He was dressed in his usual professional clothes , but wore cloth slippers , the soles of which were perfectly clean . 
The carpet was marked all over , especially on the side of the door , with traces of dirty boots , which were presumably left by the murderer . 
It was evident that someone had entered by the surgery door , had killed the doctor , and had then made his escape unseen . 
That the assailant was a man was certain , from the size of the footprints and from the nature of the injuries . 
But beyond that point the police found it very difficult to go . 
There were no signs of robbery , and the doctor's gold watch was safe in his pocket . 
He kept a heavy cash box in the room , and this was discovered to be locked but empty . 
One thing in the room was missing but that one thing was suggestive . 
The portrait of Miss Morton , which had always stood upon the side table , had been taken from its frame , and carried off . 
Mrs. Woods had observed it there when she waited upon her employer that evening , and now it was gone . 
On the other hand , there was picked up from the floor a green eye patch , which the housekeeper could not remember to have seen before . 
Such a patch might , however , be in the possession of a doctor , and there was nothing to indicate that it was in any way connected with the crime . 
Suspicion could only turn in one direction , and Arthur Morton , the young squire , was immediately arrested . 
The evidence against him was circumstantial , but damning . 
He was devoted to his sister , and it was shown that since the rupture between her and Dr . 
Lana he had been heard again and again to express himself in the most vindictive terms towards her former lover . 
He had , as stated , been seen somewhere about eleven o'clock entering the doctor's drive with a hunting crop in his hand . 
When Mrs. Woods descended , Dr . 
Lana had made up his mind to talk it over with his visitor , and had , therefore , sent his housekeeper back to her room . 
This conversation had lasted a long time , had become more and more fiery , and had ended by a personal struggle , in which the doctor lost his life . 
Arthur Morton had then removed his sister's photograph , and had made his way homeward , stepping aside into the laurel bushes to avoid Mrs. Madding at the gate . 
This was the theory of the prosecution , and the case which they presented was a formidable one . 
On the other hand , there were some strong points for the defence . 
His own explanation was that he was anxious to have a conversation with Dr . 
He did not attempt to deny that this conversation would probably have been of an unpleasant nature . 
As to his death , he knew no more about it than the constable who arrested him . 
He had formerly been an intimate friend of the deceased man but circumstances , which he would prefer not to mention , had brought about a change in his sentiments . 
There were several facts which supported his innocence . 
It was certain that Dr . 
Lana was alive and in his study at half past eleven o'clock . 
Mrs. Woods was prepared to swear that it was at that hour that she had heard his voice . 
The friends of the prisoner contended that it was probable that at that time Dr . 
The sound which had originally attracted the attention of the housekeeper , and her master's unusual impatience that she should leave him in peace , seemed to point to that . 
If this hypothesis were correct , and someone was with Dr . 
This argument , however , did not count for much , as he had ample time before his arrest to burn it or to destroy it . 
There had been a heavy shower in the afternoon , and all boots were probably in the same condition . 
Such is a bald statement of the singular and romantic series of events which centred public attention upon this Lancashire tragedy . 
It was three o'clock when the prosecution closed . 
At half past four , when the court rose , a new and unlooked for development had occurred . 
I extract the incident , or part of it , from the journal which I have already mentioned , omitting the preliminary observations of the counsel . 
Considerable sensation was caused in the crowded court when the first witness called for the defence proved to be Miss Frances Morton , the sister of the prisoner . 
Our readers will remember that the young lady had been engaged to Dr . 
Lana , and that it was his anger over the sudden termination of this engagement which was thought to have driven her brother to the perpetration of this crime . 
In answer to a direct question from her counsel , she replied that she did not feel that she had any grievance whatever against Dr . 
Lana , and that in her opinion he had acted in a perfectly honourable manner . 
She had done her best to bring him to a more reasonable frame of mind , but he was very headstrong where his emotions or prejudices were concerned . 
Up to this point the young lady's evidence had appeared to make against the prisoner rather than in his favour . 
The questions of her counsel , however , soon put a very different light upon the matter , and disclosed an unexpected line of defence . 
Mr. Humphrey Do you believe your brother to be guilty of this crime ? The Judge I cannot permit that question , Mr. Humphrey . 
We are here to decide upon questions of fact not of belief . 
Mr. Humphrey Do you know that your brother is not guilty of the death of Doctor Lana ? Miss Morton Yes . 
Mr. Humphrey How do you know it ? Miss Morton Because Dr . 
There followed a prolonged sensation in court , which interrupted the examination of the witness . 
Mr. Humphrey And how do you know , Miss Morton , that Dr . 
Lana is not dead ? Miss Morton Because I have received a letter from him since the date of his supposed death . 
Mr. Humphrey Have you this letter ? Miss Morton Yes , but I should prefer not to show it . 
Mr. Humphrey Have you the envelope ? Miss Morton Yes , it is here . 
Mr. Humphrey What is the post mark ? Miss Morton Liverpool . 
Mr. Humphrey And the date ? Miss Morton June the nd . 
Mr. Humphrey That being the day after his alleged death . 
Are you prepared to swear to this handwriting , Miss Morton ? Miss Morton Certainly . 
Mr. Humphrey I am prepared to call six other witnesses , my lord , to testify that this letter is in the writing of Doctor Lana . 
The Judge Then you must call them tomorrow . 
She desires us to believe that she permitted these to proceed , although she held in her pocket evidence which would at any moment have brought them to an end . 
Can you explain this , Miss Morton ? Miss Morton Dr . 
Lana desired his secret to be preserved . 
Mr. Porlock Carr Then why have you made this public ? Miss Morton To save my brother . 
A murmur of sympathy broke out in court , which was instantly suppressed by the Judge . 
Lana as being that of the doctor himself . 
A Juryman Has anyone up to now expressed any doubt about the matter ? Mr. Porlock Carr Not to my knowledge . 
Mr. Humphrey We hope to make the matter clear . 
The Judge Then the court adjourns until tomorrow . 
This new development of the case excited the utmost interest among the general public . 
The Judge But you appear , Mr. Humphrey , to have left matters in a very unsatisfactory state . 
Mr. Humphrey Perhaps , my lord , my next witness may help to clear them up . 
The Judge Then call your next witness . 
Mr. Humphrey I call Dr . 
The learned counsel has made many telling remarks in his day , but he has certainly never produced such a sensation with so short a sentence . 
The court was simply stunned with amazement as the very man whose fate had been the subject of so much contention appeared bodily before them in the witness box . 
Those among the spectators who had known him at Bishop's Crossing saw him now , gaunt and thin , with deep lines of care upon his face . 
But in spite of his melancholy bearing and despondent expression , there were few who could say that they had ever seen a man of more distinguished presence . 
It was my desire that an unhappy man should vanish from the world which had known him , but I had not foreseen that others would be affected by my actions . 
Let me to the best of my ability repair the evil which I have done . 
To anyone who is acquainted with the history of the Argentine Republic the name of Lana is well known . 
A brilliant career might have been open to my twin brother Ernest and myself had it not been for financial losses which made it necessary that we should earn our own living . 
I apologize , sir , if these details appear to be irrelevant , but they are a necessary introduction to that which is to follow . 
Down to the smallest detail we were exactly the same . 
As we grew older this likeness became less marked because our expression was not the same , but with our features in repose the points of difference were very slight . 
My own reputation suffered from his actions , for our close resemblance caused me to be credited with many of them . 
The freedom from his hated presence more than compensated me for the loss of my native land . 
For years my hopes were fulfilled , and then at last he discovered me . 
Some Liverpool man who visited Buenos Ayres put him upon my track . 
He had lost all his money , and he thought that he would come over and share mine . 
Knowing my horror of him , he rightly thought that I would be willing to buy him off . 
I received a letter from him saying that he was coming . 
My only motive was to screen those who were dear to me from any possible connection with scandal or disgrace . 
That scandal and disgrace would come with my brother was only to say that what had been would be again . 
My brother arrived himself one night not very long after my receipt of the letter . 
He had a dark patch over his eye , but our features were absolutely the same . 
I went to the door and I admitted him . 
That would be about ten o'clock that night . 
When he came into the glare of the lamp , I saw at once that he had fallen upon very evil days . 
He had walked from Liverpool , and he was tired and ill . 
I was quite shocked by the expression upon his face . 
My medical knowledge told me that there was some serious internal malady . 
He had been drinking also , and his face was bruised as the result of a scuffle which he had had with some sailors . 
It was to cover his injured eye that he wore this patch , which he removed when he entered the room . 
He was himself dressed in a pea jacket and flannel shirt , and his feet were bursting through his boots . 
But his poverty had only made him more savagely vindictive towards me . 
His hatred rose to the height of a mania . 
I had been rolling in money in England , according to his account , while he had been starving in South America . 
I cannot describe to you the threats which he uttered or the insults which he poured upon me . 
My impression is , that hardships and debauchery had unhinged his reason . 
He paced about the room like a wild beast , demanding drink , demanding money , and all in the foulest language . 
I am a hot tempered man , but I thank God that I am able to say that I remained master of myself , and that I never raised a hand against him . 
My coolness only irritated him the more . 
I raised him up and stretched him upon the sofa , but no answer came to my exclamations , and the hand which I held in mine was cold and clammy . 
His diseased heart had broken down . 
His own violence had killed him . 
For a long time I sat as if I were in some dreadful dream , staring at the body of my brother . 
I was aroused by the knocking of Mrs. Woods , who had been disturbed by that dying cry . 
I sent her away to bed . 
Shortly afterwards a patient tapped at the surgery door , but as I took no notice , he or she went off again . 
Slowly and gradually as I sat there a plan was forming itself in my head in the curious automatic way in which plans do form . 
When I rose from my chair my future movements were finally decided upon without my having been conscious of any process of thought . 
It was an instinct which irresistibly inclined me towards one course . 
Ever since that change in my affairs to which I have alluded , Bishop's Crossing had become hateful to me . 
My plans of life had been ruined , and I had met with hasty judgments and unkind treatment where I had expected sympathy . 
It may be that I was unduly sensitive , and that I had not made sufficient allowance for others , but my feelings were as I describe . 
Any chance of getting away from Bishop's Crossing and of everyone in it would be most welcome to me . 
And here was such a chance as I could never have dared to hope for , a chance which would enable me to make a clean break with the past . 
There was this dead man lying upon the sofa , so like me that save for some little thickness and coarseness of the features there was no difference at all . 
No one had seen him come and no one would miss him . 
We were both clean shaven , and his hair was about the same length as my own . 
If I changed clothes with him , then Dr . 
Aloysius Lana would be found lying dead in his study , and there would be an end of an unfortunate fellow , and of a blighted career . 
There was plenty of ready money in the room , and this I could carry away with me to help me to start once more in some other land . 
In my brother's clothes I could walk by night unobserved as far as Liverpool , and in that great seaport I would soon find some means of leaving the country . 
I determined to effect the change . 
Everything else of his I took with me . 
On the contrary , it was the thought of relieving others from the burden of my presence which was always uppermost in my mind . 
But before I left my resolution softened . 
I bethought me that there was one person in the world to whom I would not cause an hour of sadness . 
She would mourn me in her heart , however harsh and unsympathetic her relatives might be . 
She understood and appreciated the motives upon which I had acted , and if the rest of her family condemned me , she , at least , would not forget . 
And so I sent her a note under the seal of secrecy to save her from a baseless grief . 
If under the pressure of events she broke that seal , she has my entire sympathy and forgiveness . 
Such was the remarkable statement of Dr . 
Aloysius Lana which brought the trial to a sudden termination . 
A subsequent investigation corroborated it to the extent of finding out the vessel in which his brother Ernest Lana had come over from South America . 
The ship's doctor was able to testify that he had complained of a weak heart during the voyage , and that his symptoms were consistent with such a death as was described . 
That another reconciliation followed may be judged from a notice extracted from a prominent column in the Morning Post A marriage was solemnized upon September th , by the Rev . 
The Jew's Breastplate My particular friend , Ward Mortimer , was one of the best men of his day at everything connected with Oriental archaeology . 
There was only one reason which made Ward Mortimer's position a little difficult at the Belmore Street Museum , and that was the extreme eminence of the man whom he had to succeed . 
Professor Andreas was a profound scholar and a man of European reputation . 
His lectures were frequented by students from every part of the world , and his admirable management of the collection intrusted to his care was a commonplace in all learned societies . 
On hearing of Mortimer's appointment Professor Andreas had written him a very kindly and flattering congratulatory letter . 
I was actually present at their first meeting , and I went with Mortimer round the museum when the Professor showed us the admirable collection which he had cherished so long . 
The Professor's beautiful daughter and a young man , Captain Wilson , who was , as I understood , soon to be her husband , accompanied us in our inspection . 
There were fifteen rooms , but the Babylonian , the Syrian , and the central hall , which contained the Jewish and Egyptian collection , were the finest of all . 
Then he approached a case which stood in the very centre of the hall , and he looked down through the glass with reverence in his attitude and manner . 
This is no novelty to an expert like yourself , Mr. Mortimer , said he but I daresay that your friend , Mr. Jackson , will be interested to see it . 
The stones were all varying in sort and colour , but they were of the same size . 
Their shapes , arrangement , and gradation of tint made me think of a box of water colour paints . 
Each stone had some hieroglyphic scratched upon its surface . 
You have heard , Mr. Jackson , of the urim and thummim ? I had heard the term , but my idea of its meaning was exceedingly vague . 
The urim and thummim was a name given to the jewelled plate which lay upon the breast of the high priest of the Jews . 
They had a very special feeling of reverence for it something of the feeling which an ancient Roman might have for the Sibylline books in the Capitol . 
There are , as you see , twelve magnificent stones , inscribed with mystical characters . 
I was amazed at the variety and beauty of the stones . 
Has the breastplate any particular history ? I asked . 
It is of great age and of immense value , said Professor Andreas . 
Without being able to make an absolute assertion , we have many reasons to think that it is possible that it may be the original urim and thummim of Solomon's Temple . 
There is certainly nothing so fine in any collection in Europe . 
My friend , Captain Wilson , here , is a practical authority upon precious stones , and he would tell you how pure these are . 
Captain Wilson , a man with a dark , hard , incisive face , was standing beside his fiancee at the other side of the case . 
Yes , said he , curtly , I have never seen finer stones . 
And the gold work is also worthy of attention . 
The ancients excelled in he was apparently about to indicate the setting of the stones , when Captain Wilson interrupted him . 
Within a week , Ward Mortimer was duly installed in his new set of rooms , and had become the autocrat of the Belmore Street Museum . 
About a fortnight afterwards my friend gave a small dinner to half a dozen bachelor friends to celebrate his promotion . 
When his guests were departing he pulled my sleeve and signalled to me that he wished me to remain . 
You have only a few hundred yards to go , said he I was living in chambers in the Albany . 
You may as well stay and have a quiet cigar with me . 
I very much want your advice . 
I relapsed into an arm chair and lit one of his excellent Matronas . 
When he had returned from seeing the last of his guests out , he drew a letter from his dress jacket and sat down opposite to me . 
This is an anonymous letter which I received this morning , said he . 
I want to read it to you and to have your advice . 
You are very welcome to it for what it is worth . 
This is how the note runs Sir , I should strongly advise you to keep a very careful watch over the many valuable things which are committed to your charge . 
I do not think that the present system of a single watchman is sufficient . 
Be upon your guard , or an irreparable misfortune may occur . 
Is that all ? Yes , that is all . 
Well , said I , it is at least obvious that it was written by one of the limited number of people who are aware that you have only one watchman at night . 
Ward Mortimer handed me the note , with a curious smile . 
Have you an eye for handwriting ? said he . 
Now , look at this ! He put another letter in front of me . 
Look at the c in congratulate' and the c in committed . 
The second , said Ward Mortimer , is the letter of congratulation which was written to me by Professor Andreas upon my obtaining my appointment . 
I stared at him in amazement . 
Then I turned over the letter in my hand , and there , sure enough , was Martin Andreas signed upon the other side . 
It was inexplicable , but it was certain . 
Why should he do it ? I asked . 
Precisely what I should wish to ask you . 
If he had any such misgivings , why could he not come and tell me direct ? Will you speak to him about it ? There again I am in doubt . 
He might choose to deny that he wrote it . 
At any rate , said I , this warning is meant in a friendly spirit , and I should certainly act upon it . 
Are the present precautions enough to insure you against robbery ? I should have thought so . 
The public are only admitted from ten till five , and there is a guardian to every two rooms . 
He stands at the door between them , and so commands them both . 
But at night ? When the public are gone , we at once put up the great iron shutters , which are absolutely burglar proof . 
The watchman is a capable fellow . 
He sits in the lodge , but he walks round every three hours . 
We keep one electric light burning in each room all night . 
It is difficult to suggest anything more short of keeping your day watches all night . 
We could not afford that . 
We must trust to the future to show some reason for the curious course which he has adopted . 
He foresaw some danger to the collection . 
I was aroused in a singular and effective method , for about nine o'clock my friend Mortimer rushed into my room with an expression of consternation upon his face . 
I read his whole story in his frantic eyes . 
The museum has been robbed ! I cried , springing up in bed . 
I fear so ! Those jewels ! The jewels of the urim and thummim ! he gasped , for he was out of breath with running . 
I'm going on to the police station . 
Come to the museum as soon as you can , Jackson ! Good bye ! He rushed distractedly out of the room , and I heard him clatter down the stairs . 
As an expert in stones he was always prepared to advise the police . 
They were grouped round the case in which the breastplate of the Jewish priest had been exposed . 
The plate had been taken out and laid upon the glass top of the case , and the three heads were bent over it . 
It is obvious that it has been tampered with , said Mortimer . 
It caught my eye the moment that I passed through the room this morning . 
I examined it yesterday evening , so that it is certain that this has happened during the night . 
It was , as he had said , obvious that someone had been at work upon it . 
The settings of the uppermost row of four stones the carnelian , peridot , emerald , and ruby were rough and jagged as if someone had scraped all round them . 
The stones were in their places , but the beautiful gold work which we had admired only a few days before had been very clumsily pulled about . 
It looks to me , said the police inspector , as if someone had been trying to take out the stones . 
My fear is , said Mortimer , that he not only tried , but succeeded . 
I believe these four stones to be skilful imitations which have been put in the place of the originals . 
The same suspicion had evidently been in the mind of the expert , for he had been carefully examining the four stones with the aid of a lens . 
He now submitted them to several tests , and finally turned cheerfully to Mortimer . 
I congratulate you , sir , said he , heartily . 
I will pledge my reputation that all four of these stones are genuine , and of a most unusual degree of purity . 
The colour began to come back to my poor friend's frightened face , and he drew a long breath of relief . 
Thank God ! he cried . 
Then what in the world did the thief want ? Probably he meant to take the stones , but was interrupted . 
It is certainly most extraordinary , said the inspector . 
I never remember a case like it . 
Let us see the watchman . 
The commissionaire was called a soldierly , honest faced man , who seemed as concerned as Ward Mortimer at the incident . 
No , sir , I never heard a sound , he answered , in reply to the questions of the inspector . 
I made my rounds four times , as usual , but I saw nothing suspicious . 
I've been in my position ten years , but nothing of the kind has ever occurred before . 
No thief could have come through the windows ? Impossible , sir . 
Or passed you at the door ? No , sir I never left my post except when I walked my rounds . 
What other openings are there in the museum ? There is the door into Mr. Ward Mortimer's private rooms . 
That is locked at night , my friend explained , and in order to reach it anyone from the street would have to open the outside door as well . 
Your servants ? Their quarters are entirely separate . 
Well , well , said the inspector , this is certainly very obscure . 
However , there has been no harm done , according to Mr. Purvis . 
I will swear that those stones are genuine . 
So that the case appears to be merely one of malicious damage . 
His investigation , which lasted all the morning , was careful and intelligent , but it led in the end to nothing . 
He pointed out to us that there were two possible entrances to the museum which we had not considered . 
The one was from the cellars by a trap door opening in the passage . 
The other through a skylight from the lumber room , overlooking that very chamber to which the intruder had penetrated . 
Finally , we ended as we began , without the slightest clue as to how , why , or by whom the setting of these four jewels had been tampered with . 
There remained one course for Mortimer to take , and he took it . 
Leaving the police to continue their fruitless researches , he asked me to accompany him that afternoon in a visit to Professor Andreas . 
The Professor was living in a small villa in Upper Norwood , but we were informed by the servant that he was away from home . 
Seeing our disappointment , she asked us if we should like to see Miss Andreas , and showed us into the modest drawing room . 
I have mentioned incidentally that the Professor's daughter was a very beautiful girl . 
I was shocked , however , as she entered the room to see how much she had changed in the last fortnight . 
Her young face was haggard and her bright eyes heavy with trouble . 
Father has gone to Scotland , she said . 
He seems to be tired , and has had a good deal to worry him . 
He only left us yesterday . 
You look a little tired yourself , Miss Andreas , said my friend . 
I have been so anxious about father . 
Can you give me his Scotch address ? Yes , he is with his brother , the Rev . 
David Andreas , , Arran Villas , Ardrossan . 
Ward Mortimer made a note of the address , and we left without saying anything as to the object of our visit . 
We found ourselves in Belmore Street in the evening in exactly the same position in which we had been in the morning . 
Very early on the following morning I was aroused from my sleep by a tap upon my bedroom door . 
It was a messenger with a note from Mortimer . 
Do come round , it said the matter is becoming more and more extraordinary . 
When I obeyed his summons I found him pacing excitedly up and down the central room , while the old soldier who guarded the premises stood with military stiffness in a corner . 
My dear Jackson , he cried , I am so delighted that you have come , for this is a most inexplicable business . 
What has happened , then ? He waved his hand towards the case which contained the breastplate . 
Look at it , said he . 
I did so , and could not restrain a cry of surprise . 
The setting of the middle row of precious stones had been profaned in the same manner as the upper ones . 
Of the twelve jewels eight had been now tampered with in this singular fashion . 
The setting of the lower four was neat and smooth . 
The others jagged and irregular . 
Have the stones been altered ? I asked . 
No , I am certain that these upper four are the same which the expert pronounced to be genuine , for I observed yesterday that little discoloration on the edge of the emerald . 
Since they have not extracted the upper stones , there is no reason to think the lower have been transposed . 
You say that you heard nothing , Simpson ? No , sir , the commissionaire answered . 
But when I made my round after daylight I had a special look at these stones , and I saw at once that someone had been meddling with them . 
Then I called you , sir , and told you . 
I was backwards and forwards all night , and I never saw a soul or heard a sound . 
Come up and have some breakfast with me , said Mortimer , and he took me into his own chambers . 
Now , what DO you think of this , Jackson ? he asked . 
It is the most objectless , futile , idiotic business that ever I heard of . 
It can only be the work of a monomaniac . 
Can you put forward any theory ? A curious idea came into my head . 
First of all , what do you think of Simpson , the porter ? Have you any reason to suspect him ? Only that he is the one person on the premises . 
But why should he indulge in such wanton destruction ? Nothing has been taken away . 
Mania ? No , I will swear to his sanity . 
Have you any other theory ? Well , yourself , for example . 
You are not a somnambulist , by any chance ? Nothing of the sort , I assure you . 
Then I give it up . 
But I don't and I have a plan by which we will make it all clear . 
To visit Professor Andreas ? No , we shall find our solution nearer than Scotland . 
I will tell you what we shall do . 
We will keep our own secret , and say nothing either to the police or to Simpson . 
Will you join me ? With the utmost pleasure , said I and so it was agreed . 
It was ten o'clock that night when I returned to the Belmore Street Museum . 
At last the roaring stream of hansom cabs and the rush of hurrying feet became lower and more intermittent as the pleasure seekers passed on their way to their stations or their homes . 
It was nearly twelve when Mortimer led the way to the lumber room which overlooked the central hall of the museum . 
He had visited it during the day , and had spread some sacking so that we could lie at our ease , and look straight down into the museum . 
The skylight was of unfrosted glass , but was so covered with dust that it would be impossible for anyone looking up from below to detect that he was overlooked . 
We cleared a small piece at each corner , which gave us a complete view of the room beneath us . 
In the cold white light of the electric lamps everything stood out hard and clear , and I could see the smallest detail of the contents of the various cases . 
Such a vigil is an excellent lesson , since one has no choice but to look hard at those objects which we usually pass with such half hearted interest . 
I was lost in the thought of it when my companion suddenly drew his breath sharply in , and seized my arm in a convulsive grip . 
At the same instant I saw what it was which had excited him . 
there stood a large mummy case . 
To our unutterable amazement it was slowly opening . 
Gradually , gradually the lid was swinging back , and the black slit which marked the opening was becoming wider and wider . 
So gently and carefully was it done that the movement was almost imperceptible . 
Once some sound in the street struck him motionless , and he stood listening , with his ear turned , ready to dart back to the shelter behind him . 
Then he crept onwards again upon tiptoe , very , very softly and slowly , until he had reached the case in the centre of the room . 
What inhuman hypocrisy , what hateful depth of malice against his successor must underlie these sinister nocturnal labours . 
It was painful to think of and dreadful to watch . 
Even I , who had none of the acute feelings of a virtuoso , could not bear to look on and see this deliberate mutilation of so ancient a relic . 
It was a relief to me when my companion tugged at my sleeve as a signal that I was to follow him as he softly crept out of the room . 
It was not until we were within his own quarters that he opened his lips , and then I saw by his agitated face how deep was his consternation . 
The abominable Goth ! he cried . 
Could you have believed it ? It is amazing . 
He is a villain or a lunatic one or the other . 
We shall very soon see which . 
Come with me , Jackson , and we shall get to the bottom of this black business . 
A door opened out of the passage which was the private entrance from his rooms into the museum . 
This he opened softly with his key , having first kicked off his shoes , an example which I followed . 
We crept together through room after room , until the large hall lay before us , with that dark figure still stooping and working at the central case . 
With an advance as cautious as his own we closed in upon him , but softly as we went we could not take him entirely unawares . 
We were still a dozen yards from him when he looked round with a start , and uttering a husky cry of terror , ran frantically down the museum . 
Simpson ! Simpson ! roared Mortimer , and far away down the vista of electric lighted doors we saw the stiff figure of the old soldier suddenly appear . 
Professor Andreas saw him also , and stopped running , with a gesture of despair . 
At the same instant we each laid a hand upon his shoulder . 
Yes , yes , gentlemen , he panted , I will come with you . 
To your room , Mr Ward Mortimer , if you please ! I feel that I owe you an explanation . 
My companion's indignation was so great that I could see that he dared not trust himself to reply . 
We walked on each side of the old Professor , the astonished commissionaire bringing up the rear . 
When we reached the violated case , Mortimer stopped and examined the breastplate . 
Already one of the stones of the lower row had had its setting turned back in the same manner as the others . 
My friend held it up and glanced furiously at his prisoner . 
How could you ! he cried . 
How could you ! It is horrible horrible ! said the Professor . 
I don't wonder at your feelings . 
Take me to your room . 
But this shall not be left exposed ! cried Mortimer . 
He picked the breastplate up and carried it tenderly in his hand , while I walked beside the Professor , like a policeman with a malefactor . 
We passed into Mortimer's chambers , leaving the amazed old soldier to understand matters as best he could . 
The Professor sat down in Mortimer's arm chair , and turned so ghastly a colour that for the instant all our resentment was changed to concern . 
A stiff glass of brandy brought the life back to him once more . 
There , I am better now ! said he . 
These last few days have been too much for me . 
I am convinced that I could not stand it any longer . 
It is a nightmare a horrible nightmare that I should be arrested as a burglar in what has been for so long my own museum . 
And yet I cannot blame you . 
You could not have done otherwise . 
My hope always was that I should get it all over before I was detected . 
This would have been my last night's work . 
How did you get in ? asked Mortimer . 
By taking a very great liberty with your private door . 
But the object justified it . 
You will not be angry when you know everything at least , you will not be angry with me . 
I had a key to your side door and also to the museum door . 
I did not give them up when I left . 
And so you see it was not difficult for me to let myself into the museum . 
I used to come in early before the crowd had cleared from the street . 
Then I hid myself in the mummy case , and took refuge there whenever Simpson came round . 
I could always hear him coming . 
I used to leave in the same way as I came . 
But why ? What on earth was your object YOU to do a thing like that ! Mortimer pointed reproachfully at the plate which lay before him on the table . 
I could devise no other means . 
I thought and thought , but there was no alternate except a hideous public scandal , and a private sorrow which would have clouded our lives . 
I acted for the best , incredible as it may seem to you , and I only ask your attention to enable me to prove it . 
I will hear what you have to say before I take any further steps , said Mortimer , grimly . 
I am determined to hold back nothing , and to take you both completely into my confidence . 
I will leave it to your own generosity how far you will use the facts with which I supply you . 
We have the essential facts already . 
And yet you understand nothing . 
Let me go back to what passed a few weeks ago , and I will make it all clear to you . 
Believe me that what I say is the absolute and exact truth . 
You have met the person who calls himself Captain Wilson . 
I say calls himself' because I have reason now to believe that it is not his correct name . 
He brought letters from foreign colleagues which compelled me to show him some attention . 
And then , by his own attainments , which are considerable , he succeeded in making himself a very welcome visitor at my rooms . 
He was much interested in Oriental antiquities , and his knowledge of the subject justified his interest . 
Often when he spent the evening with us he would ask permission to go down into the museum and have an opportunity of privately inspecting the various specimens . 
You can imagine that I , as an enthusiast , was in sympathy with such a request , and that I felt no surprise at the constancy of his visits . 
After his actual engagement to Elise , there was hardly an evening which he did not pass with us , and an hour or two were generally devoted to the museum . 
He had the free run of the place , and when I have been away for the evening I had no objection to his doing whatever he wished here . 
It was immediately after this within a week or so that I first realized the true nature and character of the man whom I had so imprudently introduced into my family . 
The discovery came to me through letters from my friends abroad , which showed me that his introductions to me had been forgeries . 
Aghast at the revelation , I asked myself what motive this man could originally have had in practising this elaborate deception upon me . 
I was too poor a man for any fortune hunter to have marked me down . 
He was a rascal who was planning some gigantic robbery . 
If I had written a letter under my own name , you would naturally have turned to me for details which I did not wish to give . 
I resorted to an anonymous letter , begging you to be upon your guard . 
As to her , I could not have believed that any woman could be so completely under the influence of a man as she was . 
His stronger nature seemed to entirely dominate her . 
I had given orders that when he called he should be shown into my study instead of to the drawing room . 
I added that I thanked God that I had found him out before he had time to harm those precious objects which it had been the work of my life time to protect . 
He was certainly a man of iron nerve . 
He took my remarks without a sign either of surprise or of defiance , but listened gravely and attentively until I had finished . 
Then he walked across the room without a word and struck the bell . 
Ask Miss Andreas to be so kind as to step this way , said he to the servant . 
My daughter entered , and the man closed the door behind her . 
Then he took her hand in his . 
Elise , said he , your father has just discovered that I am a villain . 
He knows now what you knew before . 
She stood in silence , listening . 
He says that we are to part for ever , said he . 
She did not withdraw her hand . 
Will you be true to me , or will you remove the last good influence which is ever likely to come into my life ? John , she cried , passionately . 
I will never abandon you ! Never , never , not if the whole world were against you . 
In vain I argued and pleaded with her . 
Her whole life was bound up in this man before me . 
My daughter , gentlemen , is all that I have left to love , and it filled me with agony when I saw how powerless I was to save her from her ruin . 
My helplessness seemed to touch this man who was the cause of my trouble . 
It may not be as bad as you think , sir , said he , in his quiet , inflexible way . 
I love Elise with a love which is strong enough to rescue even one who has such a record as I have . 
It was but yesterday that I promised her that never again in my whole life would I do a thing of which she should be ashamed . 
I have made up my mind to it , and never yet did I make up my mind to a thing which I did not do . 
He spoke with an air which carried conviction with it . 
As he concluded he put his hand into his pocket and he drew out a small cardboard box . 
I am about to give you a proof of my determination , said he . 
This , Elise , shall be the first fruits of your redeeming influence over me . 
You are right , sir , in thinking that I had designs upon the jewels in your possession . 
Such ventures have had a charm for me , which depended as much upon the risk run as upon the value of the prize . 
Those famous and antique stones of the Jewish priest were a challenge to my daring and my ingenuity . 
I determined to get them . 
There was only one thing that you did not guess . 
And what is that ? That I got them . 
They are in this box . 
He opened the box , and tilted out the contents upon the corner of my desk . 
My hair rose and my flesh grew cold as I looked . 
There were twelve magnificent square stones engraved with mystical characters . 
There could be no doubt that they were the jewels of the urim and thummim . 
Good God ! I cried . 
Then the present stones are false ? I cried . 
They have been for some weeks . 
We all stood in silence , my daughter white with emotion , but still holding this man by the hand . 
You see what I am capable of , Elise , said he . 
I see that you are capable of repentance and restitution , she answered . 
Yes , thanks to your influence ! I leave the stones in your hands , sir . 
Do what you like about it . 
But remember that whatever you do against me , is done against the future husband of your only daughter . 
You will hear from me soon again , Elise . 
It is the last time that I will ever cause pain to your tender heart , and with these words he left both the room and the house . 
My position was a dreadful one . 
I was not even sure how far it was right to detach her if she had such an ameliorating influence over him . 
My idea was to return the stones without anyone being the wiser . 
With my keys I could get into the museum at any time , and I was confident that I could avoid Simpson , whose hours and methods were familiar to me . 
I determined to take no one into my confidence not even my daughter whom I told that I was about to visit my brother in Scotland . 
I wanted a free hand for a few nights , without inquiry as to my comings and goings . 
To this end I took a room in Harding Street that very night , with an intimation that I was a Pressman , and that I should keep very late hours . 
That night I made my way into the museum , and I replaced four of the stones . 
It was hard work , and took me all night . 
When Simpson came round I always heard his footsteps , and concealed myself in the mummy case . 
I had some knowledge of gold work , but was far less skilful than the thief had been . 
He had replaced the setting so exactly that I defy anyone to see the difference . 
My work was rude and clumsy . 
However , I hoped that the plate might not be carefully examined , or the roughness of the setting observed , until my task was done . 
Next night I replaced four more stones . 
And tonight I should have finished my task had it not been for the unfortunate circumstance which has caused me to reveal so much which I should have wished to keep concealed . 
I appeal to you , gentlemen , to your sense of honour and of compassion , whether what I have told you should go any farther or not . 
My own happiness , my daughter's future , the hopes of this man's regeneration , all depend upon your decision . 
Which is , said my friend , that all is well that ends well and that the whole matter ends here and at once . 
Here is my hand , Professor Andreas , and I can only hope that under such difficult circumstances I should have carried myself as unselfishly and as well . 
Just one footnote to this narrative . 
