Mrs. Aubyn had so few intimate friends , and consequently so few regular correspondents , that letters will be of special value . 
Professor Joslin's address is Augusta Gardens , Kensington , and he begs us to say that he will promptly return any documents entrusted to him . 
Glennard dropped the Spectator and sat looking into the fire . 
The club was filling up , but he still had to himself the small inner room , with its darkening outlook down the rainstreaked prospect of Fifth Avenue . 
To give up things in order to marry the woman one loves is easier than to give them up without being brought appreciably nearer to such a conclusion . 
Through the open door he saw young Hollingsworth rise with a yawn from the ineffectual solace of a brandy and soda and transport his purposeless person to the window . 
Glennard measured his course with a contemptuous eye . 
The Spectator had slipped to his feet and as he picked it up his eye fell again on the paragraph addressed to the friends of Mrs. Aubyn . 
Information concerning the period previous to her coming to England . 
The words were an evocation . 
It was in those earliest days , if ever , that he had come near loving her though even then his sentiment had lived only in the intervals of its expression . 
Even now , if , in turning over old papers , his hand lit on her letters , the touch filled him with inarticulate misery . 
She had so few intimate friends . 
that letters will be of special value . 
His egoism was not of a kind to mirror its complacency in the adventure . 
It was not often , however , that he thus probed the past . 
The public , in taking possession of Mrs. Aubyn , had eased his shoulders of their burden . 
From her cold niche of fame she looked down ironically enough on his self flagellations . 
Her letters will be of special value Her letters ! Why , he must have hundreds of them enough to fill a volume . 
He stood up and strolled into the other room . 
From the outskirts of this group Glennard wandered to another , where a voice as different as possible from Hollingsworth's colorless organ dominated another circle of languid listeners . 
Come and hear Dinslow talk about his patent admission free , one of the men sang out in a tone of mock resignation . 
Dinslow turned to Glennard the confident pugnacity of his smile . 
Give it another six months and it'll be talking about itself , he declared . 
It's pretty nearly articulate now . 
Can it say papa ? someone else inquired . 
You'll be deuced glad to say papa to IT a year from now , he retorted . 
It'll be able to support even you in affluence . 
Look here , now , just let me explain to you Glennard moved away impatiently . 
He moved about the room , lingering here and there in a tentative affectation of interest but though the men greeted him pleasantly no one asked him to dine . 
I'm in for a beastly banquet . 
Glennard threw himself into an arm chair . 
Why go home in the rain to dress ? It was folly to take a cab to the opera , it was worse folly to go there at all . 
His perpetual meetings with Alexa Trent were as unfair to the girl as they were unnerving to himself . 
II He dined alone and walked home to his rooms in the rain . 
It was ridiculous to give up the opera , not because one might possibly be bored there , but because one must pay for the experiment . 
Miss Trent's features cruelly justified the usurpation . 
She had the kind of beauty that comes of a happy accord of face and spirit . 
With Miss Trent , face and mind had the same high serious contour . 
Circumstances had tragically combined to develop this instinct into a conscious habit . 
She had seen more than most girls of the shabby side of life , of the perpetual tendency of want to cramp the noblest attitude . 
Poverty and misfortune had overhung her childhood and she had none of the pretty delusions about life that are supposed to be the crowning grace of girlhood . 
This very competence , which gave her a touching reasonableness , made Glennard's situation more difficult than if he had aspired to a princess bred in the purple . 
The sight of her photograph quickened Glennard's exasperation . 
He was sick and ashamed of the part he was playing . 
There are times when the constancy of the woman one cannot marry is almost as trying as that of the woman one does not want to . 
Glennard turned up his reading lamp and stirred the fire . 
He had a long evening before him and he wanted to crowd out thought with action . 
He had brought some papers from his office and he spread them out on his table and squared himself to the task . 
It must have been an hour later that he found himself automatically fitting a key into a locked drawer . 
He had no more notion than a somnambulist of the mental process that had led up to this action . 
The letters were tied in packets of thirty or forty . 
There were a great many packets . 
On some of the envelopes the ink was fading on others , which bore the English post mark , it was still fresh . 
She had been dead hardly three years , and she had written , at lengthening intervals , to the last . 
He undid one of the earlier packets little notes written during their first acquaintance at Hillbridge . 
Glennard , on leaving college , had begun life in his uncle's law office in the old university town . 
She was in fact even then what she had always remained a genius capable of the acutest generalizations , but curiously undiscerning where her personal susceptibilities were concerned . 
Her psychology failed her just where it serves most women and one felt that her brains would never be a guide to her heart . 
Of all this , however , Glennard thought little in the first year of their acquaintance . 
He was at an age when all the gifts and graces are but so much undiscriminated food to the ravening egoism of youth . 
In seeking Mrs. Aubyn's company he was prompted by an intuitive taste for the best as a pledge of his own superiority . 
The sympathy of the cleverest woman in Hillbridge was balm to his craving for distinction it was public confirmation of his secret sense that he was cut out for a bigger place . 
It must not be understood that Glennard was vain . 
Vanity contents itself with the coarsest diet there is no palate so fastidious as that of self distrust . 
To a youth of Glennard's aspirations the encouragement of a clever woman stood for the symbol of all success . 
It would be unjust , however , to represent his interest in Mrs. Aubyn as a matter of calculation . 
It was as instinctive as love , and it missed being love by just such a hair breadth deflection from the line of beauty as had determined the curve of Mrs. Aubyn's lips . 
Still more delightful was it to hear Mrs. Aubyn waken the echoes of academic drawing rooms with audacities surpassing those of her printed page . 
Her intellectual independence gave a touch of comradeship to their intimacy , prolonging the illusion of college friendships based on a joyous interchange of heresies . 
Mrs. Aubyn and Glennard represented to each other the augur's wink behind the Hillbridge idol they walked together in that light of young omniscience from which fate so curiously excludes one's elders . 
He died precisely at the moment when Glennard was beginning to criticise her . 
It was not that she bored him she did what was infinitely worse she made him feel his inferiority . 
Genius is of small use to a woman who does not know how to do her hair . 
We are all the sport of time and fate had so perversely ordered the chronology of Margaret Aubyn's romance that when her husband died Glennard felt as though he had lost a friend . 
Her letters , oddly enough , seemed at first to bring her nearer than her presence . 
To Glennard , who was almost a stranger in New York , the sight of Mrs. Aubyn's writing was like a voice of reassurance in surroundings as yet insufficiently aware of him . 
It was not the kind of figure he cared to cut . 
Her attitude seemed indeed to throw his own reasonableness into distincter relief so that they might have stood for thrift and improvidence in an allegory of the affections . 
It was not that Mrs. Aubyn permitted herself to be a pensioner on his bounty . 
Their relations remained thus negatively tender till she suddenly wrote him of her decision to go abroad to live . 
Her father had died , she had no near ties in Hillbridge , and London offered more scope than New York to her expanding personality . 
She was already famous and her laurels were yet unharvested . 
For a moment the news roused Glennard to a jealous sense of lost opportunities . 
He wanted , at any rate , to reassert his power before she made the final effort of escape . 
They had not met for over a year , but of course he could not let her sail without seeing her . 
She came to New York the day before her departure , and they spent its last hours together . 
Glennard had planned no course of action he simply meant to let himself drift . 
At length she reminded him that they must bring their explorations to an end . 
He rose to leave , and stood looking at her with the same uncertainty in his heart . 
He was tired of her already he was always tired of her yet he was not sure that he wanted her to go . 
I may never see you again , he said , as though confidently appealing to her compassion . 
And I shall see you always always ! Why go then ? escaped him . 
To be nearer you , she answered and the words dismissed him like a closing door . 
The reproach was taken from this thought by Mrs. Aubyn's gradual translation into terms of universality . 
In the retrospective light shed by the letters he was blinded to their specific meaning . 
But it would have taken too long to burn all the packets . 
He turned back to the table and one by one fitted the pages into their envelopes then he tied up the letters and put them back into the locked drawer . 
III It was one of the laws of Glennard's intercourse with Miss Trent that he always went to see her the day after he had resolved to give her up . 
In this redistribution of values the sombre retrospect of the previous evening shrank to a mere cloud on the edge of consciousness . 
Perhaps the only service an unloved woman can render the man she loves is to enhance and prolong his illusions about her rival . 
It was the fate of Margaret Aubyn's memory to serve as a foil to Miss Trent's presence , and never had the poor lady thrown her successor into more vivid relief . 
Miss Trent had the charm of still waters that are felt to be renewed by rapid currents . 
Her attention spread a tranquil surface to the demonstrations of others , and it was only in days of storm that one felt the pressure of the tides . 
This inscrutable composure was perhaps her chief grace in Glennard's eyes . 
You didn't come to the opera last night , she began , in the tone that seemed always rather to record a fact than to offer a reflection on it . 
He answered with a discouraged gesture . 
What was the use ? We couldn't have talked . 
Not as well as here , she assented adding , after a meditative pause , As you didn't come I talked to Aunt Virginia instead . 
One felt them to be hands that , moving only to some purpose , were capable of intervals of serene inaction . 
Glennard looked up with a start . 
Abroad ? When ? Now next month . 
To be gone two years . 
He permitted himself a movement of tender derision . 
Does she really ? Well , I want you to go abroad with ME for any number of years . 
Which offer do you accept ? Only one of them seems to require immediate consideration , she returned , with a smile . 
Glennard looked at her again . 
You're not thinking of it ? Her gaze dropped and she unclasped her hands . 
Her movements were so rare that they might have been said to italicize her words . 
Aunt Virginia talked to me very seriously . 
It will be a great relief to mother and the others to have me provided for in that way for two years . 
I must think of that , you know . 
She glanced down at her gown which , under a renovated surface , dated back to the first days of Glennard's wooing . 
I try not to cost much but I do . 
Good Lord ! Glennard groaned . 
They sat silent till at length she gently took up the argument . 
As the eldest , you know , I'm bound to consider these things . 
Women are such a burden . 
Jim does what he can for mother , but with his own children to provide for it isn't very much . 
You see , we're all poor together . 
She might help your mother . 
She does in her own way . 
I could be very happy in Aunt Virginia's old gowns , Miss Trent interposed . 
Abroad , you mean ? I mean wherever I felt that I was helping . 
And my going abroad will help . 
Of course I see that . 
And I see your considerateness in putting its advantages negatively . 
Negatively ? In dwelling simply on what the going will take you from , not on what it will bring you to . 
It means a lot to a woman , of course , to get away from a life like this . 
He summed up in a disparaging glance the background of indigent furniture . 
The question is how you'll like coming back to it . 
She seemed to accept the full consequences of his thought . 
I only know I don't like leaving it . 
He flung back sombrely , You don't even put it conditionally then ? Her gaze deepened . 
On what ? He stood up and walked across the room . 
Then he came back and paused before her . 
On the alternative of marrying me . 
The slow color even her blushes seemed deliberate rose to her lower lids her lips stirred , but the words resolved themselves into a smile and she waited . 
He took another turn , with the thwarted step of the man whose nervous exasperation escapes through his muscles . 
And to think that in fifteen years I shall have a big practice ! Her eyes triumphed for him . 
You'll go to Cannes , I suppose , or Monte Carlo ? I heard Hollingsworth say to day that he meant to take his yacht over to the Mediterranean She released herself . 
If you think that I don't . 
I almost wish I did . 
It would be easier , I mean . 
I believe your Aunt Virginia does , though . 
She somehow connotes Hollingsworth and the Mediterranean . 
He caught her hands again . 
Alexa if we could manage a little hole somewhere out of town ? Could we ? she sighed , half yielding . 
In one of those places where they make jokes about the mosquitoes , he pressed her . 
It's all in the air yet , of course but I picked up a tip the other day You're not speculating ? she cried , with a kind of superstitious terror . 
This is a sure thing I almost wish it wasn't I mean if I can work it He had a sudden vision of the comprehensiveness of the temptation . 
If only he had been less sure of Dinslow ! His assurance gave the situation the base element of safety . 
I don't understand you , she faltered . 
Trust me , instead ! he adjured her , with sudden energy and turning on her abruptly , If you go , you know , you go free , he concluded . 
She drew back , paling a little . 
Why do you make it harder for me ? To make it easier for myself , he retorted . 
IV Glennard , the next afternoon , leaving his office earlier than usual , turned , on his way home , into one of the public libraries . 
He had the place to himself at that closing hour , and the librarian was able to give an undivided attention to his tentative request for letters collections of letters . 
I meant women women's letters . 
The librarian proffered Hannah More and Miss Martineau . 
Glennard cursed his own inarticulateness . 
I mean letters to to some one person a man their husband or Ah , said the inspired librarian , Eloise and Abailard . 
Well something a little nearer , perhaps , said Glennard , with lightness . 
Didn't Merimee The lady's letters , in that case , were not published . 
Of course not , said Glennard , vexed at his blunder . 
There are George Sand's letters to Flaubert . 
Was she were they ? He chafed at his own ignorance of the sentimental by paths of literature . 
If you want love letters , perhaps some of the French eighteenth century correspondences might suit you better Mlle . 
Aisse or Madame de Sabran But Glennard insisted . 
I want something modern English or American . 
I want to look something up , he lamely concluded . 
The librarian could only suggest George Eliot . 
Well , give me some of the French things , then and I'll have Merimee's letters . 
It was the woman who published them , wasn't it ? He caught up his armful , transferring it , on the doorstep , to a cab which carried him to his rooms . 
He dined alone , hurriedly , at a small restaurant near by , and returned at once to his books . 
Late that night , as he undressed , he wondered what contemptible impulse had forced from him his last words to Alexa Trent . 
His awakening was hardly cheered by the sight of her writing . 
He tore her note open and took in the few lines she seldom exceeded the first page with the lucidity of apprehension that is the forerunner of evil . 
My aunt sails on Saturday and I must give her my answer the day after to morrow . 
Please don't come till then I want to think the question over by myself . 
I know I ought to go . 
Won't you help me to be reasonable ? It was settled , then . 
Well , he would be reasonable he wouldn't stand in her way he would let her go . 
For two years he had been living some other , luckier man's life the time had come when he must drop back into his own . 
He no longer tried to look ahead , to grope his way through the endless labyrinth of his material difficulties a sense of dull resignation closed in on him like a fog . 
Hullo , Glennard ! a voice said , as an electric car , late that afternoon , dropped him at an uptown corner . 
Glennard felt his usual impulse of pleasure at meeting Flamel but it was not in this case curtailed by the reaction of contempt that habitually succeeded it . 
Probably even the few men who had known Flamel since his youth could have given no good reason for the vague mistrust that he inspired . 
It now offered itself to Glennard as an easy escape from the obsession of moral problems , which somehow could no more be worn in Flamel's presence than a surplice in the street . 
Against this background , which seemed the visible expression of its owner's intellectual tolerance , rows of fine books detached themselves with a prominence , showing them to be Flamel's chief care . 
Glennard glanced with the eye of untrained curiosity at the lines of warm toned morocco , while his host busied himself with the uncorking of Apollinaris . 
You've got a splendid lot of books , he said . 
Glennard , without answering , was mechanically taking one book after another from the shelves . 
His hands slipped curiously over the smooth covers and the noiseless subsidence of opening pages . 
Suddenly he came on a thin volume of faded manuscript . 
What's this ? he asked , with a listless sense of wonder . 
Ah , you're at my manuscript shelf . 
I've been going in for that sort of thing lately . 
Flamel came up and looked over his shoulders . 
That's a bit of Stendhal one of the Italian stories and here are some letters of Balzac to Madame Commanville . 
Glennard took the book with sudden eagerness . 
Who was Madame Commanville ? His sister . 
He was conscious that Flamel was looking at him with the smile that was like an interrogation point . 
I didn't know you cared for this kind of thing . 
I don't at least I've never had the chance . 
Have you many collections of letters ? Lord , no very few . 
I'm just beginning , and most of the interesting ones are out of my reach . 
Here's a queer little collection , though the rarest thing I've got half a dozen of Shelley's letters to Harriet Westbrook . 
I had a devil of a time getting them a lot of collectors were after them . 
Glennard , taking the volume from his hand , glanced with a kind of repugnance at the interleaving of yellow cris crossed sheets . 
She was the one who drowned herself , wasn't she ? Flamel nodded . 
I suppose that little episode adds about fifty per cent . 
to their value , he said , meditatively . 
Glennard laid the book down . 
He wondered why he had joined Flamel . 
He was in no humor to be amused by the older man's talk , and a recrudescence of personal misery rose about him like an icy tide . 
I believe I must take myself off , he said . 
The older man , as though divining the conflict , laid a detaining pressure on his arm . 
Won't the engagement keep ? Sit down and try one of these cigars . 
I don't often have the luck of seeing you here . 
I'm rather driven just now , said Glennard , vaguely . 
He found himself seated again , and Flamel had pushed to his side a low stand holding a bottle of Apollinaris and a decanter of cognac . 
Flamel , thrown back in his capacious arm chair , surveyed him through a cloud of smoke with the comfortable tolerance of the man to whom no inconsistencies need be explained . 
Connivance was implicit in the air . 
It was the kind of atmosphere in which the outrageous loses its edge . 
Glennard felt a gradual relaxing of his nerves . 
I suppose one has to pay a lot for letters like that ? he heard himself asking , with a glance in the direction of the volume he had laid aside . 
Oh , so do depends on circumstances . 
Are you thinking of collecting ? Glennard laughed . 
Selling ? Oh , I hardly know . 
I was thinking of a poor chap Flamel filled the pause with a nod of interest . 
A collection of autograph letters , eh ? Any big names ? Oh , only one name . 
They're all letters written to him by one person , you understand a woman , in fact Oh , a woman , said Flamel , negligently . 
Glennard was nettled by his obvious loss of interest . 
I rather think they'd attract a good deal of notice if they were published . 
Love letters , I suppose ? Oh , just the letters a woman would write to a man she knew well . 
They were tremendous friends , he and she . 
And she wrote a clever letter ? Clever ? It was Margaret Aubyn . 
A great silence filled the room . 
It seemed to Glennard that the words had burst from him as blood gushes from a wound . 
Great Scott ! said Flamel , sitting up . 
A collection of Margaret Aubyn's letters ? Did you say YOU had them ? They were left me by my friend . 
Was he well , no matter . 
You're to be congratulated , at any rate . 
What are you going to do with them ? Glennard stood up with a sense of weariness in all his bones . 
Oh , I don't know . 
I haven't thought much about it . 
I just happened to see that some fellow was writing her life Joslin yes . 
What ought I to do ? You're just the fellow to advise me . 
He felt the blood in his cheek as he spoke . 
Flamel sat with meditative eye . 
What do you WANT to do with them ? he asked . 
I want to publish them , said Glennard , swinging round with sudden energy If I can If you can ? They're yours , you say ? They're mine fast enough . 
There's no one to prevent I mean there are no restrictions he was arrested by the sense that these accumulated proofs of impunity might precisely stand as the strongest check on his action . 
And Mrs. Aubyn had no family , I believe ? No. Then I don't see who's to interfere , said Flamel , studying his cigar tip . 
Glennard had turned his unseeing stare on an ecstatic Saint Catherine framed in tarnished gilding . 
It's just this way , he began again , with an effort . 
When letters are as personal as as these of my friend's . 
He paused , with a dry throat . 
It seemed to him at the moment that it would be impossible for him ever to sink lower in his own estimation . 
But the man's dead , isn't he ? He's dead yes but can I assume the responsibility without Flamel hesitated and almost immediately Glennard's scruples gave way to irritation . 
If at this hour Flamel were to affect an inopportune reluctance ! The older man's answer reassured him . 
Why need you assume any responsibility ? Your name won't appear , of course and as to your friend's , I don't see why his should , either . 
He wasn't a celebrity himself , I suppose ? No , no . 
Then the letters can be addressed to Mr. Blank . 
Doesn't that make it all right ? Glennard's hesitation revived . 
For the public , yes . 
But I don't see that it alters the case for me . 
The question is , ought I to publish them at all ? Of course you ought to . 
Flamel spoke with invigorating emphasis . 
I doubt if you'd be justified in keeping them back . 
Anything of Margaret Aubyn's is more or less public property by this time . 
She's too great for any one of us . 
I was only wondering how you could use them to the best advantage to yourself , I mean . 
How many are there ? Oh , a lot perhaps a hundred I haven't counted . 
Gad ! What a haul ! When were they written ? I don't know that is they corresponded for years . 
What's the odds ? He moved toward his hat with a vague impulse of flight . 
It all counts , said Flamel , imperturbably . 
A long correspondence one , I mean , that covers a great deal of time is obviously worth more than if the same number of letters had been written within a year . 
At any rate , you won't give them to Joslin ? They'd fill a book , wouldn't they ? I suppose so . 
I don't know how much it takes to fill a book . 
Not love letters , you say ? Why ? flashed from Glennard . 
Oh , nothing only the big public is sentimental , and if they WERE why , you could get any money for Margaret Aubyn's love letters . 
Are the letters interesting in themselves ? I mean apart from the association with her name ? I'm no judge . 
Glennard took up his hat and thrust himself into his overcoat . 
I dare say I sha'n't do anything about it . 
And , Flamel you won't mention this to anyone ? Lord , no . 
Well , I congratulate you . 
You've got a big thing . 
Flamel was smiling at him from the hearth . 
Glennard , on the threshold , forced a response to the smile , while he questioned with loitering indifference Financially , eh ? Rather I should say so . 
Glennard's hand lingered on the knob . 
How much should you say ? You know about such things . 
If you got the publishers bidding against each other you might do even better but of course I'm talking in the dark . 
Of course , said Glennard , with sudden dizziness . 
His hand had slipped from the knob and he stood staring down at the exotic spirals of the Persian rug beneath his feet . 
I'd have to see the letters , Flamel repeated . 
Of course you'd have to see them . 
Glennard stammered and , without turning , he flung over his shoulder an inarticulate Good by . 
V The little house , as Glennard strolled up to it between the trees , seemed no more than a gay tent pitched against the sunshine . 
It had the crispness of a freshly starched summer gown , and the geraniums on the veranda bloomed as simultaneously as the flowers in a bonnet . 
The garden was prospering absurdly . 
Seed they had sown at random amid laughing counter charges of incompetence had shot up in fragrant defiance of their blunders . 
He smiled to see the clematis unfolding its punctual wings about the porch . 
The tiny lawn was smooth as a shaven cheek , and a crimson rambler mounted to the nursery window of a baby who never cried . 
A breeze shook the awning above the tea table , and his wife , as he drew near , could be seen bending above a kettle that was just about to boil . 
The stale heat of the long day in town , the dusty promiscuity of the suburban train were now but the requisite foil to an evening of scented breezes and tranquil talk . 
They had been married more than a year , and each home coming still reflected the freshness of their first day together . 
If , indeed , their happiness had a flaw , it was in resembling too closely the bright impermanence of their surroundings . 
Their love as yet was but the gay tent of holiday makers . 
His wife looked up with a smile . 
The country life suited her , and her beauty had gained depth from a stillness in which certain faces might have grown opaque . 
Are you very tired ? she asked , pouring his tea . 
Just enough to enjoy this . 
He rose from the chair in which he had thrown himself and bent over the tray for his cream . 
You've had a visitor ? he commented , noticing a half empty cup beside her own . 
Only Mr. Flamel , she said , indifferently . 
Flamel ? Again ? She answered without show of surprise . 
His yacht is down at Laurel Bay and he borrowed a trap of the Dreshams to drive over here . 
Glennard meditatively stirred his tea . 
He was trying to think of the most natural and unartificial thing to say , and his voice seemed to come from the outside , as though he were speaking behind a marionette . 
Do you want to ? Just as you please , she said , compliantly . 
No affectation of indifference could have been as baffling as her compliance . 
Do you like Flamel ? he suddenly asked to which , still engaged with her tea , she returned the feminine answer I thought you did . 
I do , of course , he agreed , vexed at his own incorrigible tendency to magnify Flamel's importance by hovering about the topic . 
A sail would be rather jolly let's go . 
She made no reply and he drew forth the rolled up evening papers which he had thrust into his pocket on leaving the train . 
As he smoothed them out his own countenance seemed to undergo the same process . 
He ran his eye down the list of stocks and Flamel's importunate personality receded behind the rows of figures pushing forward into notice like so many bearers of good news . 
Glennard's investments were flowering like his garden the dryest shares blossomed into dividends , and a golden harvest awaited his sickle . 
He glanced at his wife with the tranquil air of the man who digests good luck as naturally as the dry ground absorbs a shower . 
Things are looking uncommonly well . 
I believe we shall be able to go to town for two or three months next winter if we can find something cheap . 
she'll let us have it for almost nothing . 
Well , write her about it , he recommended , his eyes travelling on in search of the weather report . 
He had turned to the wrong page and suddenly a line of black characters leapt out at him as from an ambush . 
First edition of five thousand sold out before leaving the press . 
Second edition ready next week . 
THE BOOK OF THE YEAR . 
His wife still sat with her head thrown back , her pure profile detached against the cushions . 
She was smiling a little over the prospect his last words had opened . 
Behind her head shivers of sun and shade ran across the striped awning . 
Now it seemed to him that every maple leaf , every privet bud , was a relentless human gaze , pressing close upon their privacy . 
It was as though they sat in a brightly lit room , uncurtained from a darkness full of hostile watchers . 
His wife still smiled and her unconsciousness of danger seemed , in some horrible way , to put her beyond the reach of rescue . 
He had not known that it would be like this . 
From the moment he had obtained Miss Trent's promise not to sail with her aunt he had tried to imagine himself irrevocably committed . 
After that , he argued , his first duty was to her she had become his conscience . 
It was the mitigated poverty which can subscribe to a review or two and have a few flowers on the dinner table . 
And already in a small way Glennard was beginning to feel the magnetic quality of prosperity . 
Clients who had passed his door in the hungry days sought it out now that it bore the name of a successful man . 
But it was in the more intimate reward of his wife's happiness that Glennard tasted the full flavor of success . 
And somehow in the windowless inner cell of his consciousness where self criticism cowered Glennard's course seemed justified by its merely material success . 
How could such a crop of innocent blessedness have sprung from tainted soil ? Now he had the injured sense of a man entrapped into a disadvantageous bargain . 
He had not known it would be like this and a dull anger gathered at his heart . 
She would always be there now . 
It was as though he had married her instead of the other . 
It was what she had always wanted to be with him and she had gained her point at last . 
He sprang up , as though in an impulse of flight . 
Well , and what if she did see it ? It would signify nothing to her , the chances were that she would never even read the book . 
Yet a moment before he had almost hated her ! . 
He laughed aloud at his senseless terrors . 
He was off his balance , decidedly . 
What are you laughing at ? she asked . 
But somehow , in the telling , the humor of the story seemed to evaporate , and he felt the conventionality of her smile . 
He glanced at his watch , Isn't it time to dress ? She rose with serene reluctance . 
It's a pity to go in . 
The garden looks so lovely . 
They lingered side by side , surveying their domain . 
Of course I shall let him know . 
You always seem to imply that I'm going to do something rude to Flamel . 
The words reverberated through her silence she had a way of thus leaving one space in which to contemplate one's folly at arm's length . 
Glennard turned on his heel and went upstairs . 
The part was a small one Flamel had few intimate friends but composed of more heterogeneous atoms than the little pools into which society usually runs . 
The reaction from the chief episode of his earlier life had bred in Glennard an uneasy distaste for any kind of personal saliency . 
Cleverness was useful in business but in society it seemed to him as futile as the sham cascades formed by a stream that might have been used to drive a mill . 
The ladies who directly suggested this comparison were of a kind accustomed to take similar risks with more gratifying results . 
The third lady of the trio which Glennard's fancy had put to such unflattering uses , was bound by circumstances to support the claims of the other two . 
This was Mrs. Dresham , the wife of the editor of the Radiator . 
Under Dresham's tutelage she had developed into a thoughtful woman , who read his leaders in the Radiator and bought the books he recommended . 
Mrs. Dresham immediately saw her advantage . 
You HAVEN'T read them ? How very extraordinary ! As Mrs. Armiger says , the book's in the air one breathes it in like the influenza . 
Glennard sat motionless , watching his wife . 
Perhaps it hasn't reached the suburbs yet , she said , with her unruffled smile . 
Oh , DO let me come to you , then ! Mrs. Touchett cried anything for a change of air ! I'm positively sick of the book and I can't put it down . 
Can't you sail us beyond its reach , Mr. Flamel ? Flamel shook his head . 
Not even with this breeze . 
Literature travels faster than steam nowadays . 
And the worst of it is that we can't any of us give up reading it's as insidious as a vice and as tiresome as a virtue . 
I believe it IS a vice , almost , to read such a book as the 'Letters , said Mrs. Touchett . 
It's the woman's soul , absolutely torn up by the roots her whole self laid bare and to a man who evidently didn't care who couldn't have cared . 
I don't mean to read another line it's too much like listening at a keyhole . 
He's dead then , is he ? one of the men asked . 
Why , you don't suppose if he were alive he could ever hold up his head again , with these letters being read by everybody ? Mrs. Touchett protested . 
No that's the worst of it they're unloved letters , Mrs. Touchett retorted . 
Then , obviously , she needn't have written them whereas the man , poor devil , could hardly help receiving them . 
Perhaps he counted on the public to save him the trouble of reading them , said young Hartly , who was in the cynical stage . 
Mrs. Armiger turned her reproachful loveliness to Dresham . 
From the way you defend him , I believe you know who he is . 
Everyone looked at Dresham , and his wife smiled with the superior air of the woman who is in her husband's professional secrets . 
What have I said to defend him ? You called him a poor devil you pitied him . 
A man who could let Margaret Aubyn write to him in that way ? Of course I pity him . 
Then you MUST know who he is , cried Mrs. Armiger , with a triumphant air of penetration . 
Hartly and Flamel laughed and Dresham shook his head . 
No one knows not even the publishers so they tell me at least . 
A little bird , probably , said Dresham , smiling indulgently on her deduction . 
A little bird of prey then a vulture , I should say another man interpolated . 
Oh , I'm not with you there , said Dresham , easily . 
Those letters belonged to the public . 
How can any letters belong to the public that weren't written to the public ? Mrs. Touchett interposed . 
Well , these were , in a sense . 
A personality as big as Margaret Aubyn's belongs to the world . 
Such a mind is part of the general fund of thought . 
It's the penalty of greatness one becomes a monument historique . 
Posterity pays the cost of keeping one up , but on condition that one is always open to the public . 
I don't see that that exonerates the man who gives up the keys of the sanctuary , as it were . 
Who WAS he ? another voice inquired . 
Who was he ? Oh , nobody , I fancy the letter box , the slit in the wall through which the letters passed to posterity . 
But she never meant them for posterity ! A woman shouldn't write such letters if she doesn't mean them to be published . 
She shouldn't write them to such a man ! Mrs. Touchett scornfully corrected . 
I never keep letters , said Mrs. Armiger , under the obvious impression that she was contributing a valuable point to the discussion . 
There was a general laugh , and Flamel , who had not spoken , said , lazily , You women are too incurably subjective . 
I venture to say that most men would see in those letters merely their immense literary value , their significance as documents . 
The personal side doesn't count where there's so much else . 
Such talk was as tedious as the buzzing of gnats . 
He wondered why his wife had wanted to drag him on such a senseless expedition . 
He hated Flamel's crowd and what business had Flamel himself to interfere in that way , standing up for the publication of the letters as though Glennard needed his defence ? . 
Glennard turned his head and saw that Flamel had drawn a seat to Alexa's elbow and was speaking to her in a low tone . 
The other groups had scattered , straying in twos along the deck . 
It came over Glennard that he should never again be able to see Flamel speaking to his wife without the sense of sick mistrust that now loosened his joints . 
Alexa , the next morning , over their early breakfast , surprised her husband by an unexpected request . 
Will you bring me those letters from town ? she asked . 
What letters ? he said , putting down his cup . 
He felt himself as helplessly vulnerable as a man who is lunged at in the dark . 
The book they were all talking about yesterday . 
Glennard , carefully measuring his second cup of tea , said , with deliberation , I didn't know you cared about that sort of thing . 
Her life ? Where did you get that ? Someone lent it to me when it came out Mr. Flamel , I think . 
Flamel always has the newest books going , hasn't he ? You must be careful , by the way , about returning what he lends you . 
He's rather crotchety about his library . 
Oh , I'm always very careful , she said , with a touch of competence that struck him and she added , as he caught up his hat Don't forget the letters . 
How much Flamel guessed , he had no means of divining nor could he predicate , from what he knew of the man , to what use his inferences might be put . 
The very qualities that had made Flamel a useful adviser made him the most dangerous of accomplices . 
Glennard felt himself agrope among alien forces that his own act had set in motion . 
Alexa was a woman of few requirements but her wishes , even in trifles , had a definiteness that distinguished them from the fluid impulses of her kind . 
If the book was to be bought it had better be bought at once . 
He left his office earlier than usual and turned in at the first book shop on his way to the train . 
The show window was stacked with conspicuously lettered volumes . 
Margaret Aubyn flashed back at him in endless repetition . 
He plunged into the shop and came on a counter where the name reiterated itself on row after row of bindings . 
It seemed to have driven the rest of literature to the back shelves . 
He caught up a copy , tossing the money to an astonished clerk who pursued him to the door with the unheeded offer to wrap up the volumes . 
In the street he was seized with a sudden apprehension . 
What if he were to meet Flamel ? The thought was intolerable . 
He called a cab and drove straight to the station where , amid the palm leaf fans of a perspiring crowd , he waited a long half hour for his train to start . 
He had thrust a volume in either pocket and in the train he dared not draw them out but the detested words leaped at him from the folds of the evening paper . 
The air seemed full of Margaret Aubyn's name . 
The motion of the train set it dancing up and down on the page of a magazine that a man in front of him was reading . 
At the door he was told that Mrs. Glennard was still out , and he went upstairs to his room and dragged the books from his pocket . 
They lay on the table before him like live things that he feared to touch . 
At length he opened the first volume . 
A familiar letter sprang out at him , each word quickened by its glaring garb of type . 
The little broken phrases fled across the page like wounded animals in the open . 
It was a horrible sight . 
A battue of helpless things driven savagely out of shelter . 
He had not known it would be like this . 
He understood now that , at the moment of selling the letters , he had viewed the transaction solely as it affected himself as an unfortunate blemish on an otherwise presentable record . 
He had scarcely considered the act in relation to Margaret Aubyn for death , if it hallows , also makes innocuous . 
VII A knock roused him and looking up he saw his wife . 
He met her glance in silence , and she faltered out , Are you ill ? The words restored his self possession . 
Ill ? Of course not . 
They told me you were out and I came upstairs . 
The books lay between them on the table he wondered when she would see them . 
She lingered tentatively on the threshold , with the air of leaving his explanation on his hands . 
She was not the kind of woman who could be counted on to fortify an excuse by appearing to dispute it . 
Where have you been ? Glennard asked , moving forward so that he obstructed her vision of the books . 
I walked over to the Dreshams for tea . 
I can't think what you see in those people , he said with a shrug adding , uncontrollably I suppose Flamel was there ? No he left on the yacht this morning . 
An answer so obstructing to the natural escape of his irritation left Glennard with no momentary resource but that of strolling impatiently to the window . 
As her eyes followed him they lit on the books . 
Ah , you've brought them ! I'm so glad , she exclaimed . 
Do you mean it's not nice to want to read the book ? she asked . 
I was reading 'Pomegranate Seed' when we first met . 
Don't you remember ? It was then you told me all about her . 
Glennard had turned back into the room and stood staring at his wife . 
All about her ? he repeated , and with the words remembrance came to him . 
The incident had left no trace in his mind but it sprang up now like an old enemy , the more dangerous for having been forgotten . 
She seemed to consider this intently . 
You've read it , then ? I glanced at it I never read such things . 
I'm sure I don't know , he said then , summoning a smile , he passed his hand through her arm . 
I didn't have tea at the Dreshams , you know won't you give me some now ? he suggested . 
That evening Glennard , under pretext of work to be done , shut himself into the small study opening off the drawing room . 
As he gathered up his papers he said to his wife You're not going to sit indoors on such a night as this ? I'll join you presently outside . 
But she had drawn her armchair to the lamp . 
I want to look at my book , she said , taking up the first volume of the Letters . 
Glennard , with a shrug , withdrew into the study . 
I'm going to shut the door I want to be quiet , he explained from the threshold and she nodded without lifting her eyes from the book . 
He sank into a chair , staring aimlessly at the outspread papers . 
The sensation was part of the general strangeness that made him feel like a man waking from a long sleep to find himself in an unknown country among people of alien tongue . 
To escape , the next morning , the confidences of the breakfast table , he went to town earlier than usual . 
His wife , who read slowly , was given to talking over what she read , and at present his first object in life was to postpone the inevitable discussion of the letters . 
The only man in the club was Flamel . 
Glennard , as he heard himself almost involuntarily pressing Flamel to come and dine , felt the full irony of the situation . 
To use Flamel as a shield against his wife's scrutiny was only a shade less humiliating than to reckon on his wife as a defence against Flamel . 
He felt a contradictory movement of annoyance at the latter's ready acceptance , and the two men drove in silence to the station . 
We shall be late , you know , Glennard remonstrated , pulling out his watch . 
Go ahead , said Flamel , imperturbably . 
I want to get something Glennard turned on his heel and walked down the platform . 
Flamel rejoined him with an innocent looking magazine in his hand but Glennard dared not even glance at the cover , lest it should show the syllables he feared . 
The train was full of people they knew , and they were kept apart till it dropped them at the little suburban station . 
The dinner passed off safely . 
Glennard , under his wife's composure , detected a sensibility to this manoeuvre , and the discovery was like the lightning flash across a nocturnal landscape . 
Thus far these momentary illuminations had served only to reveal the strangeness of the intervening country each fresh observation seemed to increase the sum total of his ignorance . 
Her simplicity of outline was more puzzling than a complex surface . 
One may conceivably work one's way through a labyrinth but Alexa's candor was like a snow covered plain where , the road once lost , there are no landmarks to travel by . 
Dinner over , they returned to the veranda , where a moon , rising behind the old elm , was combining with that complaisant tree a romantic enlargement of their borders . 
Glennard had forgotten the cigars . 
He went to his study to fetch them , and in passing through the drawing room he saw the second volume of the Letters lying open on his wife's table . 
He picked up the book and looked at the date of the letter she had been reading . 
It was one of the last . 
he knew the few lines by heart . 
He dropped the book and leaned against the wall . 
Why had he included that one among the others ? Or was it possible that now they would all seem like that . 
? Alexa's voice came suddenly out of the dusk . 
May Touchett was right it IS like listening at a key hole . 
Then it ought not to have been published till it had become a classic . 
It's horrible , it's degrading almost , to read the secrets of a woman one might have known . 
She added , in a lower tone , Stephen DID know her Did he ? came from Flamel . 
He knew her very well , at Hillbridge , years ago . 
The book has made him feel dreadfully . 
he didn't want me to read it . 
I didn't understand at first , but now I can see how horribly disloyal it must seem to him . 
It's so much worse to surprise a friend's secrets than a stranger's . 
Oh , Glennard's such a sensitive chap , Flamel said , easily and Alexa almost rebukingly rejoined , If you'd known her I'm sure you'd feel as he does . 
An impulse of self accusal drove Glennard to the window . 
The impulse was strong enough to carry him to the window but there a reaction of defiance set in . 
As to Alexa's words , they were simply the conventional utterance of the nice woman on a question already decided for her by other nice women . 
She had said the proper thing as mechanically as she would have put on the appropriate gown or written the correct form of dinner invitation . 
The sudden lowering of his emotional pitch brought a proportionate relief . 
He told himself that now the worst was over and things would fall into perspective again . 
He had always taken pride in a certain robustness of fibre that enabled him to harden himself against the inevitable , to convert his failures into the building materials of success . 
Some griefs build the soul a spacious house but in this misery of Glennard's he could not stand upright . 
It pressed against him at every turn . 
He told himself that this was because there was no escape from the visible evidences of his act . 
The Letters confronted him everywhere . 
People who had never opened a book discussed them with critical reservations to have read them had become a social obligation in circles to which literature never penetrates except in a personal guise . 
it was from the unexpected discovery of his own pettiness that he chiefly suffered . 
Glennard had never thought himself a hero but he had been certain that he was incapable of baseness . 
The immediate result of his first weeks of wretchedness was the resolve to go to town for the winter . 
Glennard felt that he could not trust himself to a winter's solitude with her . 
He had an unspeakable dread of her learning the truth about the letters , yet could not be sure of steeling himself against the suicidal impulse of avowal . 
His very soul was parched for sympathy he thirsted for a voice of pity and comprehension . 
But would his wife pity ? Would she understand ? Again he found himself brought up abruptly against his incredible ignorance of her nature . 
It would have been easier had she been more complex , more feminine if he could have counted on her imaginative sympathy or her moral obtuseness but he was sure of neither . 
He was sure of nothing but that , for a time , he must avoid her . 
Glennard could not rid himself of the delusion that by and by his action would cease to make its consequences felt . 
In his worst moments of self abasement he tried to find solace in the thought that Flamel had sanctioned his course . 
Flamel , at the outset , must have guessed to whom the letters were addressed yet neither then nor afterward had he hesitated to advise their publication . 
This thought drew Glennard to him in fitful impulses of friendliness , from each of which there was a sharper reaction of distrust and aversion . 
When Flamel was not at the house , he missed the support of his tacit connivance when he was there , his presence seemed the assertion of an intolerable claim . 
Early in the winter the Glennards took possession of the little house that was to cost them almost nothing . 
The change brought Glennard the immediate relief of seeing less of his wife , and of being protected , in her presence , by the multiplied preoccupations of town life . 
Alexa , who could never appear hurried , showed the smiling abstraction of a pretty woman to whom the social side of married life has not lost its novelty . 
Glennard , with the recklessness of a man fresh from his first financial imprudence , encouraged her in such little extravagances as her good sense at first resisted . 
Since they had come to town , he argued , they might as well enjoy themselves . 
Providence the very next day hastened to justify this measure by placing on Glennard's breakfast plate an envelope bearing the name of the publishers to whom he had sold Mrs. Aubyn's letters . 
It was the royalty on the first edition of the letters . 
His first feeling was one of simple satisfaction . 
The money had come with such infernal opportuneness that he could not help welcoming it . 
Before long , too , there would be more he knew the book was still selling far beyond the publisher's previsions . 
He put the check in his pocket and left the room without looking at his wife . 
On the way to his office the habitual reaction set in . 
The money he had received was the first tangible reminder that he was living on the sale of his self esteem . 
It seemed to him , in that first hour of misery , that he had betrayed his friend anew . 
When , that afternoon , he reached home earlier than usual , Alexa's drawing room was full of a gayety that overflowed to the stairs . 
She paused as Glennard entered , and he had time to notice that his wife , who was busied about the tea tray , had not joined in the laughter of the men . 
Oh , go on , go on , young Hartly rapturously groaned and Mrs. Armiger met Glennard's inquiry with the deprecating cry that really she didn't see what there was to laugh at . 
I'm sure I feel more like crying . 
I don't know what I should have done if Alexa hadn't been home to give me a cup of tea . 
I haven't been in town long enough to know anything , said Glennard , taking the cup his wife handed him . 
Her tone betrayed a polite satiety of the topic under discussion . 
Glennard turned to the bell , but Mrs. Armiger pursued him with her lovely amazement . 
It WAS horrid it was disgraceful . 
Oh , her hostess murmured , indifferently , with me charity begins at home . 
I can't afford emotional luxuries . 
A charity ? A charity ? Hartly exulted . 
I hadn't seized the full beauty of it . 
When they were alone Glennard , still holding his untouched cup of tea , turned to his wife , who sat silently behind the kettle . 
Who asked you to take a ticket for that reading ? I don't know , really Kate Dresham , I fancy . 
It was she who got it up . 
It's just the sort of damnable vulgarity she's capable of ! It's loathsome it's monstrous His wife , without looking up , answered gravely , I thought so too . 
It was for that reason I didn't go . 
As I do ? he repeated . 
I mean that very few people knew her when she lived in New York . 
To most of the women who went to the reading she was a mere name , too remote to have any personality . 
With me , of course , it was different Glennard gave her a startled look . 
Different ? Why different ? Since you were her friend Her friend ! He stood up impatiently . 
I hope , he added , you didn't give that as a reason , by the way ? A reason ? For not going . 
A woman who gives reasons for getting out of social obligations is sure to make herself unpopular or ridiculous . 
The words were uncalculated but in an instant he saw that they had strangely bridged the distance between his wife and himself . 
He felt her close on him , like a panting foe and her answer was a flash that showed the hand on the trigger . 
I seem , she said from the threshold , to have done both in giving my reason to you . 
The fact that they were dining out that evening made it easy for him to avoid Alexa till she came downstairs in her opera cloak . 
Mrs. Touchett , who was going to the same dinner , had offered to call for her , and Glennard , refusing a precarious seat between the ladies' draperies , followed on foot . 
He was rapidly losing all sense of proportion where the Letters were concerned . 
The attempt to keep a smooth surface on this inner tumult was as endless and unavailing as efforts made in a nightmare . 
He lost all sense of what he was saying to his neighbors and once when he looked up his wife's glance struck him cold . 
While the reading was discussed they were silent . 
Their silence seemed to Glennard almost cynical it stripped the last disguise from their complicity . 
The assumption that Flamel knew about the letters had become a fact to Glennard and it now seemed to him better that Alexa should know too . 
He was frightened at first by the discovery of his own indifference . 
The last barriers of his will seemed to be breaking down before a flood of moral lassitude . 
He had not forgotten the note on which their conversation had closed . 
If he had ever wondered how she would receive the truth he wondered no longer she would despise him . 
But this lent a new insidiousness to his temptation , since her contempt would be a refuge from his own . 
He said to himself that , since he no longer cared for the consequences , he could at least acquit himself of speaking in self defence . 
What he wanted now was not immunity but castigation his wife's indignation might still reconcile him to himself . 
Therein lay his one hope of regeneration her scorn was the moral antiseptic that he needed , her comprehension the one balm that could heal him . 
When they left the dinner he was so afraid of speaking that he let her drive home alone , and went to the club with Flamel . 
IX HE rose next morning with the resolve to know what Alexa thought of him . 
It was not anchoring in a haven , but lying to in a storm he felt the need of a temporary lull in the turmoil of his sensations . 
He came home late , for they were dining alone and he knew that they would have the evening together . 
Alone in the study he cursed his cowardice . 
What was it that had withheld him ? A certain bright unapproachableness seemed to keep him at arm's length . 
She was not the kind of woman whose compassion could be circumvented there was no chance of slipping past the outposts he would never take her by surprise . 
Well why not face her , then ? What he shrank from could be no worse than what he was enduring . 
He had pushed back his chair and turned to go upstairs when a new expedient presented itself . 
The idea had been suggested by the sight of the formula enclosing the publisher's check . 
He had deposited the money , but the notice accompanying it dropped from his note case as he cleared his table for work . 
It was the formula usual in such cases and revealed clearly enough that he was the recipient of a royalty on Margaret Aubyn's letters . 
It would be impossible for Alexa to read it without understanding at once that the letters had been written to him and that he had sold them . 
He sat downstairs till he heard her ring for the parlor maid to put out the lights then he went up to the drawing room with a bundle of papers in his hand . 
Alexa was just rising from her seat and the lamplight fell on the deep roll of hair that overhung her brow like the eaves of a temple . 
Her face had often the high secluded look of a shrine and it was this touch of awe in her beauty that now made him feel himself on the brink of sacrilege . 
Lest the feeling should dominate him , he spoke at once . 
I've brought you a piece of work a lot of old bills and things that I want you to sort for me . 
Some are not worth keeping but you'll be able to judge of that . 
Are you sure I shall know which to keep ? Oh , quite sure , he answered , easily and besides , none are of much importance . 
The visitor was Flamel , who was in the act of taking leave . 
He had risen , but Alexa remained seated and their attitude gave the impression of a colloquy that had prolonged itself beyond the limits of speech . 
Both turned a surprised eye on Glennard and he had the sense of walking into a room grown suddenly empty , as though their thoughts were conspirators dispersed by his approach . 
He felt the clutch of his old fear . 
A sudden resolve to know the worst made him lift his eyes to his wife as the door closed on Flamel . 
But Alexa had risen also , and bending over her writing table , with her back to Glennard , was beginning to speak precipitately . 
I'm dining out to night you don't mind my deserting you ? Julia Armiger sent me word just now that she had an extra ticket for the last Ambrose concert . 
The concert begins ridiculously early , and Julia dines at half past seven Glennard stood alone in the empty room that seemed somehow full of an ironical consciousness of what was happening . 
She hates me , he murmured . 
The next day was Sunday , and Glennard purposely lingered late in his room . 
When he came downstairs his wife was already seated at the breakfast table . 
She lifted her usual smile to his entrance and they took shelter in the nearest topic , like wayfarers overtaken by a storm . 
He wondered it had never before occurred to him that Flamel was the kind of man who might very well please a woman at his own expense , without need of fortuitous assistance . 
If this possibility cleared the outlook it did not brighten it . 
Glennard merely felt himself left alone with his baseness . 
Alexa left the breakfast table before him and when he went up to the drawing room he found her dressed to go out . 
Aren't you a little early for church ? he asked . 
Well , good by , she said , turning to go and from the threshold she added By the way , I've sorted the papers you gave me . 
Those that I thought you would like to keep are on your study table . 
She went downstairs and he heard the door close behind her . 
She had sorted the papers she knew , then she MUST know and she had made no sign ! Glennard , he hardly knew how , found himself once more in the study . 
On the table lay the packet he had given her . 
It was much smaller she had evidently gone over the papers with care , destroying the greater number . 
He loosened the elastic band and spread the remaining envelopes on his desk . 
The publisher's notice was among them . 
X His wife knew and she made no sign . 
From the kind of exaltation to which his resolve had lifted him he dropped to an unreasoning apathy . 
His impulse of confession had acted as a drug to self reproach . 
A fortunate interval of hard work brought respite from this phase of sterile misery . 
He went West to argue an important case , won it , and came back to fresh preoccupations . 
His own affairs were thriving enough to engross him in the pauses of his professional work , and for over two months he had little time to look himself in the face . 
Not unnaturally for he was as yet unskilled in the subtleties of introspection he mistook his temporary insensibility for a gradual revival of moral health . 
He had little leisure to observe Alexa but he concluded that the common sense momentarily denied him had counselled her uncritical acceptance of the inevitable . 
What woman ever retained her abstract sense of justice where another woman was concerned ? Possibly the thought that he had profited by Mrs. Aubyn's tenderness was not wholly disagreeable to his wife . 
When he was tired , as often happened , she went out alone the idea of giving up an engagement to remain with him seemed not to occur to her . 
She had shown , as a girl , little fondness for society , nor had she seemed to regret it during the year they had spent in the country . 
He reflected , however , that he was sharing the common lot of husbands , who proverbially mistake the early ardors of housekeeping for a sign of settled domesticity . 
Alexa , at any rate , was refuting his theory as inconsiderately as a seedling defeats the gardener's expectations . 
An undefinable change had come over her . 
the art may at times have been a little too obvious . 
In this ironical estimate of their relation Glennard found himself strangely relieved of all concern as to his wife's feelings for Flamel . 
From an Olympian pinnacle of indifference he calmly surveyed their inoffensive antics . 
It was surprising how his cheapening of his wife put him at ease with himself . 
Far as he and she were from each other they yet had , in a sense , the tacit nearness of complicity . 
Yes , they were accomplices he could no more be jealous of her than she could despise him . 
The jealousy that would once have seemed a blur on her whiteness now appeared like a tribute to ideals in which he no longer believed . 
Glennard was little given to exploring the outskirts of literature . 
He always skipped the literary notices in the papers and he had small leisure for the intermittent pleasures of the periodical . 
He had therefore no notion of the prolonged reverberations which the Aubyn Letters had awakened in the precincts of criticism . 
It was a reproduction of the photograph that had stood so long on his desk . 
The desiccating air of memory had turned her into the mere abstraction of a woman , and this unexpected evocation seemed to bring her nearer than she had ever been in life . 
For a moment he found consolation in the thought that , at any cost , they had thus been brought together then a flood of shame rushed over him . 
Face to face with her , he felt himself laid bare to the inmost fold of consciousness . 
The shame was deep , but it was a renovating anguish he was like a man whom intolerable pain has roused from the creeping lethargy of death . 
He rose next morning to as fresh a sense of life as though his hour of mute communion with Margaret Aubyn had been a more exquisite renewal of their earlier meetings . 
His waking thought was that he must see her again and as consciousness affirmed itself he felt an intense fear of losing the sense of her nearness . 
But she was still close to him her presence remained the sole reality in a world of shadows . 
In this lucidity of retrospection the most trivial detail had its significance , and the rapture of recovery was embittered to Glennard by the perception of all that he had missed . 
It was as though she had bought him with her blood . 
That evening he and Alexa dined alone . 
After dinner he followed her to the drawing room . 
He no longer felt the need of avoiding her he was hardly conscious of her presence . 
After a few words they lapsed into silence and he sat smoking with his eyes on the fire . 
It was not that he was unwilling to talk to her he felt a curious desire to be as kind as possible but he was always forgetting that she was there . 
She seemed to be looking for something and he roused himself to ask what she wanted . 
Only the last number of the Horoscope . 
I thought I'd left it on this table . 
He said nothing , and she went on You haven't seen it ? No , he returned coldly . 
The magazine was locked in his desk . 
His wife had moved to the mantel piece . 
She stood facing him and as he looked up he met her tentative gaze . 
I was reading an article in it a review of Mrs. Aubyn's letters , she added , slowly , with her deep , deliberate blush . 
Glennard stooped to toss his cigar into the fire . 
He felt a savage wish that she would not speak the other woman's name nothing else seemed to matter . 
You seem to do a lot of reading , he said . 
She still earnestly confronted him . 
I was keeping this for you I thought it might interest you , she said , with an air of gentle insistence . 
He stood up and turned away . 
He was sure she knew that he had taken the review and he felt that he was beginning to hate her again . 
I haven't time for such things , he said , indifferently . 
As he moved to the door he heard her take a precipitate step forward then she paused and sank without speaking into the chair from which he had risen . 
XI As Glennard , in the raw February sunlight , mounted the road to the cemetery , he felt the beatitude that comes with an abrupt cessation of physical pain . 
He had reached the point where self analysis ceases the impulse that moved him was purely intuitive . 
He was oppressed , as he now threaded the long avenues , by a chilling vision of her return . 
Glennard's eye , as he followed the way indicated to him , had instinctively sought some low mound with a quiet headstone . 
How she would have hated it ! he murmured . 
A bench stood near and he seated himself . 
The monument rose before him like some pretentious uninhabited dwelling he could not believe that Margaret Aubyn lay there . 
It was a Sunday morning and black figures moved among the paths , placing flowers on the frost bound hillocks . 
He rose presently and walked back to the entrance of the cemetery . 
Several greenhouses stood near the gates , and turning in at the first he asked for some flowers . 
Anything in the emblematic line ? asked the anaemic man behind the dripping counter . 
Just cut flowers ? This way , then . 
The florist unlocked a glass door and led him down a moist green aisle . 
The rich atmosphere made Glennard dizzy . 
The sharp air caught him as he stepped out into it again . 
He walked back and scattered the flowers over the grave . 
The edges of the white petals shrivelled like burnt paper in the cold and as he watched them the illusion of her nearness faded , shrank back frozen . 
XII The motive of his visit to the cemetery remained undefined save as a final effort of escape from his wife's inexpressive acceptance of his shame . 
It seemed to him that as long as he could keep himself alive to that shame he would not wholly have succumbed to its consequences . 
His chief fear was that he should become the creature of his act . 
His wife's indifference degraded him it seemed to put him on a level with his dishonor . 
Margaret Aubyn would have abhorred the deed in proportion to her pity for the man . 
The sense of her potential pity drew him back to her . 
The one woman knew but did not understand the other , it sometimes seemed , understood without knowing . 
In its last disguise of retrospective remorse , his self pity affected a desire for solitude and meditation . 
He lost himself in morbid musings , in futile visions of what life with Margaret Aubyn might have been . 
There were moments when , in the strange dislocation of his view , the wrong he had done her seemed a tie between them . 
To indulge these emotions he fell into the habit , on Sunday afternoons , of solitary walks prolonged till after dusk . 
The days were lengthening , there was a touch of spring in the air , and his wanderings now usually led him to the Park and its outlying regions . 
One Sunday , tired of aimless locomotion , he took a cab at the Park gates and let it carry him out to the Riverside Drive . 
It was a gray afternoon streaked with east wind . 
This couple , who had the path to themselves , moved at an uneven pace , as though adapting their gait to a conversation marked by meditative intervals . 
Now and then they paused , and in one of these pauses the lady , turning toward her companion , showed Glennard the outline of his wife's profile . 
The blood rushed to Glennard's forehead . 
He sat up with a jerk and pushed back the lid in the roof of the hansom but when the cabman bent down he dropped into his seat without speaking . 
They had not moved Alexa , with bent head , stood listening . 
My God , my God he groaned . 
It was hideous it was abominable he could not understand it . 
The woman was nothing to him less than nothing yet the blood hummed in his ears and hung a cloud before him . 
Yes , it was disgust he felt almost a physical nausea . 
The poisonous fumes of life were in his lungs . 
He was sick , unutterably sick . 
He drove home and went to his room . 
They were giving a little dinner that night , and when he came down the guests were arriving . 
He looked at his wife her beauty was extraordinary , but it seemed to him the beauty of a smooth sea along an unlit coast . 
He sat late that night in his study . 
He heard the parlor maid lock the front door then his wife went upstairs and the lights were put out . 
His brain was like some great empty hall with an echo in it one thought reverberated endlessly . 
At length he drew his chair to the table and began to write . 
He addressed an envelope and then slowly re read what he had written . 
MY DEAR FLAMEL Many apologies for not sending you sooner the enclosed check , which represents the customary percentage on the sale of the Letters . 
Trusting you will excuse the oversight , Yours truly , STEPHEN GLENNARD . 
He let himself out of the darkened house and dropped the letter in the post box at the corner . 
The next afternoon he was detained late at his office , and as he was preparing to leave he heard someone asking for him in the outer room . 
He seated himself again and Flamel was shown in . 
My dear fellow , what on earth does this mean ? Glennard recognized his check . 
That I was remiss , simply . 
It ought to have gone to you before . 
On the ground that you sold Mrs. Aubyn's letters for me , and that I find the intermediary in such cases is entitled to a percentage on the sale . 
You find , you say . 
It's a recent discovery ? Obviously , from my not sending the check sooner . 
You see I'm new to the business . 
And since when have you discovered that there was any question of business , as far as I was concerned ? Glennard flushed and his voice rose slightly . 
It's simple enough he muttered . 
Simple enough your offering me money in return for a friendly service ? I don't know what your other friends expect ! Some of my friends wouldn't have undertaken the job . 
Those who would have done so would probably have expected to be paid . 
He lifted his eyes to Flamel and the two men looked at each other . 
Flamel had turned white and his lips stirred , but he held his temperate note . 
If you mean to imply that the job was not a nice one , you lay yourself open to the retort that you proposed it . 
But for my part I've never seen , I never shall see , any reason for not publishing the letters . 
That's just it ! What ? The certainty of your not seeing was what made me go to you . 
When a man's got stolen goods to pawn he doesn't take them to the police station . 
The letters were stolen ? Glennard burst into a coarse laugh . 
How much longer to you expect me to keep up that pretence about the letters ? You knew well enough they were written to me . 
Flamel looked at him in silence . 
Were they ? he said at length . 
And didn't suspect it , I suppose , Glennard sneered . 
You never showed me the originals . 
What does that prove ? There were fifty ways of finding out . 
It's the kind of thing one can easily do . 
Flamel glanced at him with contempt . 
Our ideas probably differ as to what a man can easily do . 
It would not have been easy for me . 
Glennard's anger vented itself in the words uppermost in his thought . 
It may , then , interest you to hear that my wife DOES know about the letters has known for some months . 
Ah , said the other , slowly . 
Glennard saw that , in his blind clutch at a weapon , he had seized the one most apt to wound . 
Flamel's muscles were under control , but his face showed the undefinable change produced by the slow infiltration of poison . 
Every implication that the words contained had reached its mark but Glennard felt that their obvious intention was lost in the anguish of what they suggested . 
He was sure now that Flamel would never have betrayed him but the inference only made a wider outlet for his anger . 
He paused breathlessly for Flamel to speak . 
If she knows , it's not through me . 
It was what Glennard had waited for . 
Flamel received this in silence . 
The other's outbreak seemed to have reinforced his self control , and when he spoke it was with a deliberation implying that his course was chosen . 
In that case I understand still less Still less ? The meaning of this . 
He pointed to the check . 
When you began to speak I supposed you had meant it as a bribe now I can only infer it was intended as a random insult . 
In either case , here's my answer . 
He tore the slip of paper in two and tossed the fragments across the desk to Glennard . 
Then he turned and walked out of the office . 
Glennard dropped his head on his hands . 
If he had hoped to restore his self respect by the simple expedient of assailing Flamel's , the result had not justified his expectation . 
He saw now that his rage against Flamel was only the last projection of a passionate self disgust . 
This consciousness did not dull his dislike of the man it simply made reprisals ineffectual . 
Flamel's unwillingness to quarrel with him was the last stage of his abasement . 
In the light of this final humiliation his assumption of his wife's indifference struck him as hardly so fatuous as the sentimental resuscitation of his past . 
He had been living in a factitious world wherein his emotions were the sycophants of his vanity , and it was with instinctive relief that he felt its ruins crash about his head . 
It was nearly dark when he left his office , and he walked slowly homeward in the complete mental abeyance that follows on such a crisis . 
XIII It had never before occurred to him that she might , after all , have missed the purport of the document he had put in her way . 
The subject was one not likely to fix her attention she was not a curious woman . 
Glennard at this point laid down his fork and glanced at her between the candle shades . 
The alternative explanation of her indifference was not slow in presenting itself . 
Her head had the same listening droop as when he had caught sight of her the day before in Flamel's company the attitude revived the vividness of his impression . 
It was simple enough , after all . 
She had ceased to care for him because she cared for someone else . 
As he followed her upstairs he felt a sudden stirring of his dormant anger . 
His sentiments had lost all their factitious complexity . 
He had already acquitted her of any connivance in his baseness , and he felt only that he loved her and that she had escaped him . 
Every other passion , he mused , left some mark upon the nature but love passed like the flight of a ship across the waters . 
She sank into her usual seat near the lamp , and he leaned against the chimney , moving about with an inattentive hand the knick knacks on the mantel . 
Suddenly he caught sight of her reflection in the mirror . 
She was looking at him . 
He turned and their eyes met . 
He moved across the room and stood before her . 
There's something that I want to say to you , he began in a low tone . 
She held his gaze , but her color deepened . 
He noticed again , with a jealous pang , how her beauty had gained in warmth and meaning . 
It was as though a transparent cup had been filled with wine . 
He looked at her ironically . 
I've never prevented your seeing your friends here , he broke out . 
Why do you meet Flamel in out of the way places ? Nothing makes a woman so cheap She rose abruptly and they faced each other a few feet apart . 
What do you mean ? she asked . 
I saw you with him last Sunday on the Riverside Drive , he went on , the utterance of the charge reviving his anger . 
She sank into her chair again and began to play with a paper knife that lay on the table at her elbow . 
Well ? he burst out . 
Is that all you have to say ? Do you wish me to explain ? she asked , proudly . 
Do you imply I haven't the right to ? I imply nothing . 
I will tell you whatever you wish to know . 
I went for a walk with Mr. Flamel because he asked me to . 
I didn't suppose you went uninvited . 
But there are certain things a sensible woman doesn't do . 
She doesn't slink about in out of the way streets with men . 
Why couldn't you have seen him here ? She hesitated . 
Because he wanted to see me alone . 
Did he , indeed ? And may I ask if you gratify all his wishes with equal alacrity ? I don't know that he has any others where I am concerned . 
She paused again and then continued , in a lower voice that somehow had an under note of warning . 
He wished to bid me good by . 
Glennard turned on her a startled glance . 
Going away ? He's going to Europe to morrow . 
He goes for a long time . 
The last phrase revived his irritation . 
You forget that I depend on you for my information about Flamel . 
He's your friend and not mine . 
In fact , I've sometimes wondered at your going out of your way to be so civil to him when you must see plainly enough that I don't like him . 
Her answer to this was not immediate . 
He was your friend before he was mine . 
I never knew him till I was married . 
It was you who brought him to the house and who seemed to wish me to like him . 
Glennard gave a short laugh . 
The defence was feebler than he had expected she was certainly not a clever woman . 
Your deference to my wishes is really beautiful but it's not the first time in history that a man has made a mistake in introducing his friends to his wife . 
You must , at any rate , have seen since then that my enthusiasm had cooled but so , perhaps , has your eagerness to oblige me . 
She met this with a silence that seemed to rob the taunt of half its efficacy . 
Is that what you imply ? he pressed her . 
No , she answered with sudden directness . 
And why did you imagine this ? The blood mounted to his forehead . 
Because he told you that I was under obligations to him ? She turned pale . 
Under obligations ? Oh , don't let's beat about the bush . 
Didn't he tell you it was I who published Mrs. Aubyn's letters ? Answer me that . 
No , she said and after a moment which seemed given to the weighing of alternatives , she added No one told me . 
You didn't know then ? She seemed to speak with an effort . 
Not until not until Till I gave you those papers to sort ? Her head sank . 
You understood then ? Yes . 
He looked at her immovable face . 
Had you suspected before ? was slowly wrung from him . 
At times yes Her voice dropped to a whisper . 
Why ? From anything that was said ? There was a shade of pity in her glance . 
No one said anything no one told me anything . 
She looked away from him . 
It was your manner My manner ? Whenever the book was mentioned . 
Things you said once or twice your irritation I can't explain Glennard , unconsciously , had moved nearer . 
He breathed like a man who has been running . 
You knew , then , you knew he stammered . 
The avowal of her love for Flamel would have hurt him less , would have rendered her less remote . 
You knew you knew he repeated and suddenly his anguish gathered voice . 
She rose slowly and moved toward him . 
Haven't you had enough without that ? she said , in a strange voice of pity . 
An iron band seemed loosened from his temples . 
Oh , God oh , God she sobbed . 
She dropped beside him and hid her anguish against his knees . 
They clung thus in silence , a long time , driven together down the same fierce blast of shame . 
When at length she lifted her face he averted his . 
Her scorn would have hurt him less than the tears on his hands . 
She spoke languidly , like a child emerging from a passion of weeping . 
It was for the money ? His lips shaped an assent . 
That was the inheritance that we married on ? Yes . 
She drew back and rose to her feet . 
He sat watching her as she wandered away from him . 
You hate me , broke from him . 
Say you hate me ! he persisted . 
That would have been so simple , she answered with a strange smile . 
She dropped into a chair near the writing table and rested a bowed forehead on her hand . 
Was it much ? she began at length . 
Much ? he returned , vaguely . 
The money ? That part of it seemed to count so little that for a moment he did not follow her thought . 
It must be paid back , she insisted . 
Can you do it ? Oh , yes , he returned , listlessly . 
I would make any sacrifice for that ! she urged . 
He sat staring at her in dry eyed self contempt . 
Do you count on its making much difference ? Much difference ? In the way I feel or you feel about me ? She shook her head . 
It's the least part of it , he groaned . 
It's the only part we can repair . 
Good heavens ! If there were any reparation He rose quickly and crossed the space that divided them . 
Why did you never speak ? he asked . 
Haven't you answered that yourself ? Answered it ? Just now when you told me you did it for me . 
She paused a moment and then went on with a deepening note I would have spoken if I could have helped you . 
But you must have despised me . 
I've told you that would have been simpler . 
But how could you go on like this hating the money ? I knew you would speak in time . 
I wanted you , first , to hate it as I did . 
He gazed at her with a kind of awe . 
You're wonderful , he murmured . 
But you don't yet know the depths I've reached . 
She raised an entreating hand . 
I don't want to ! You're afraid , then , that you'll hate me ? No but that you'll hate ME . 
Let me understand without your telling me . 
I thought you didn't care because you loved Flamel . 
Don't don't she warned him . 
I haven't the right to , you mean ? I mean that you'll be sorry . 
He stood imploringly before her . 
I want to say something worse something more outrageous . 
If you don't understand THIS you'll be perfectly justified in ordering me out of the house . 
She answered him with a glance of divination . 
I shall understand but you'll be sorry . 
I must take my chance of that . 
He moved away and tossed the books about the table . 
Then he swung round and faced her . 
Does Flamel care for you ? he asked . 
Her flush deepened , but she still looked at him without anger . 
What would be the use ? she said with a note of sadness . 
Ah , I didn't ask THAT , he penitently murmured . 
I insulted Flamel to day . 
I let him see that I suspected him of having told you . 
I hated him because he knew about the letters . 
He caught the spreading horror of her eyes , and for an instant he had to grapple with the new temptation they lit up . 
Then he said , with an effort Don't blame him he's impeccable . 
He helped me to get them published but I lied to him too I pretended they were written to another man . 
a man who was dead . 
She raised her arms in a gesture that seemed to ward off his blows . 
You DO despise me ! he insisted . 
Ah , that poor woman that poor woman he heard her murmur . 
I spare no one , you see ! he triumphed over her . 
She kept her face hidden . 
You do hate me , you do despise me ! he strangely exulted . 
Be silent ! she commanded him but he seemed no longer conscious of any check on his gathering purpose . 
He cared for you he cared for you , he repeated , and he never told you of the letters She sprang to her feet . 
How can you ? she flamed . 
How dare you ? THAT ! Glennard was ashy pale . 
A scoundrel's ! He smiled wretchedly . 
I should have used it in his place . 
Stephen ! Stephen ! she cried , as though to drown the blasphemy on his lips . 
She swept to him with a rescuing gesture . 
I forbid you ! It degrades us both . 
He put her back with trembling hands . 
Nothing that I say of myself can degrade you . 
I'm on yours , whatever it is ! He lifted his head and their gaze flowed together . 
XIV The great renewals take effect as imperceptibly as the first workings of spring . 
Glennard , though he felt himself brought nearer to his wife , was still , as it were , hardly within speaking distance . 
Only the fact that we are unaware how well our nearest know us enables us to live with them . 
Love is the most impregnable refuge of self esteem , and we hate the eye that reaches to our nakedness . 
He was like a child coming back to the sense of an enveloping presence her nearness was a breast on which he leaned . 
They did not , at first , talk much together , and each beat a devious track about the outskirts of the subject that lay between them like a haunted wood . 
But every word , every action , seemed to glance at it , to draw toward it , as though a fount of healing sprang in its poisoned shade . 
If both , theoretically , owned the inefficacy of such amends , the woman's instinctive subjectiveness made her find relief in this crude form of penance . 
Her mind was fixed on the sum originally paid for the letters , and this he knew he could lay aside in a year or two . 
He was touched , meanwhile , by the spirit that made her discard the petty luxuries which she regarded as the signs of their bondage . 
Their shared renunciations drew her nearer to him , helped , in their evidence of her helplessness , to restore the full protecting stature of his love . 
And still they did not speak . 
It was several weeks later that , one afternoon by the drawing room fire , she handed him a letter that she had been reading when he entered . 
I've heard from Mr. Flamel , she said . 
It was as though a latent presence had suddenly become visible to both . 
He took the letter mechanically . 
It's from Smyrna , she said . 
Won't you read it ? He handed it back . 
You can tell me about it his hand's so illegible . 
He wandered to the other end of the room and then turned and stood before her . 
I've been thinking of writing to Flamel , he said . 
There's one point , he continued , slowly , that I ought to clear up . 
I told him you'd known about the letters all along for a long time , at least and I saw it hurt him horribly . 
It was just what I meant to do , of course but I can't leave him to that false impression I must write him . 
She received this without outward movement , but he saw that the depths were stirred . 
At length she returned , in a hesitating tone , Why do you call it a false impression ? I did know . 
Yes , but I implied you didn't care . 
Ah ! He still stood looking down on her . 
Don't you want me to set that right ? he tentatively pursued . 
She lifted her head and fixed him bravely . 
It isn't necessary , she said . 
Glennard flushed with the shock of the retort then , with a gesture of comprehension , No , he said , with you it couldn't be but I might still set myself right . 
She looked at him gently . 
I can't , at times , defend myself from the delusion but I can at least enlighten others . 
The flood was loosened , and kneeling by her he caught her hands . 
Ah , poor woman , poor woman , he heard her sigh . 
Don't pity her , pity me ! What have I done to her or to you , after all ? You're both inaccessible ! It was myself I sold . 
He took an abrupt turn away from her then halted before her again . 
It's miserable for you and it does HER no good ! She lifted a vivid face . 
That's the thought I can't bear ! she cried . 
What thought ? That it does her no good all you're feeling , all you're suffering . 
Can it be that it makes no difference ? He avoided her challenging glance . 
What's done is done , he muttered . 
Is it ever , quite , I wonder ? she mused . 
He made no answer and they lapsed into one of the pauses that are a subterranean channel of communication . 
It was she who , after awhile , began to speak with a new suffusing diffidence that made him turn a roused eye on her . 
One can make , I mean , a wrong the door to other wrongs or an impassable wall against them . 
Her voice wavered on the word . 
She moved over to him and laid a hesitating hand on his . 
His head was bent and he did not change his attitude . 
She sat down beside him without speaking but their silences now were fertile as rain clouds they quickened the seeds of understanding . 
At length he looked up . 
I don't know , he said , what spirits have come to live in the house of evil that I built but you're there and that's enough for me . 
It's strange , he went on after another pause , she wished the best for me so often , and now , at last , it's through her that it's come to me . 
But for her I shouldn't have known you it's through her that I've found you . 
Sometimes , do you know ? that makes it hardest makes me most intolerable to myself . 
It isn't that she's given ME to you it is that she's given you to yourself . 
She leaned to him as though swept forward on a wave of pity . 
What did I ever give her ? The happiness of giving , she said . 
