After much thought , I decided that I was a person fitted to furnish to mankind this spectacle . 
So I determined to do it . 
This was in March , . 
I looked about me for the right sort of person to accompany me in the capacity of agent , and finally hired a Mr. Harris for this service . 
It was also my purpose to study art while in Europe . 
Mr. Harris was in sympathy with me in this . 
He was as much of an enthusiast in art as I was , and not less anxious to learn to paint . 
I desired to learn the German language so did Harris . 
Toward the middle of April we sailed in the HOLSATIA , Captain Brandt , and had a very peasant trip , indeed . 
We made a short halt at Frankfort on the Main , and found it an interesting city . 
I would have liked to visit the birthplace of Gutenburg , but it could not be done , as no memorandum of the site of the house has been kept . 
So we spent an hour in the Goethe mansion instead . 
The city permits this house to belong to private parties , instead of gracing and dignifying herself with the honor of possessing and protecting it . 
Frankfort is one of the sixteen cities which have the distinction of being the place where the following incident occurred . 
, arrived at the bank of the river at dawn , in a fog . 
The enemy were either before him or behind him but in any case he wanted to get across , very badly . 
He would have given anything for a guide , but none was to be had . 
Presently he saw a deer , followed by her young , approach the water . 
He watched her , judging that she would seek a ford , and he was right . 
She waded over , and the army followed . 
None of the other cities where this event happened were named for it . 
This is good evidence that Frankfort was the first place it occurred at . 
Frankfort has another distinction it is the birthplace of the German alphabet or at least of the German word for alphabet BUCHSTABEN . 
They say that the first movable types were made on birch sticks BUCHSTABE hence the name . 
I was taught a lesson in political economy in Frankfort . 
I had brought from home a box containing a thousand very cheap cigars . 
The man gave me cents change . 
In Frankfort everybody wears clean clothes , and I think we noticed that this strange thing was the case in Hamburg , too , and in the villages along the road . 
Even in the narrowest and poorest and most ancient quarters of Frankfort neat and clean clothes were the rule . 
The little children of both sexes were nearly always nice enough to take into a body's lap . 
And as for the uniforms of the soldiers , they were newness and brightness carried to perfection . 
One could never detect a smirch or a grain of dust upon them . 
The street car conductors and drivers wore pretty uniforms which seemed to be just out of the bandbox , and their manners were as fine as their clothes . 
In one of the shops I had the luck to stumble upon a book which has charmed me nearly to death . 
Who the Knight was ? Nobody could guess , for his Vizier was well closed , and nothing made him recognizable . 
Proud and yet modest he advanced to the Empress bowed on one knee before her seat , and begged for the favor of a waltz with the Queen of the festival . 
And she allowed his request . 
With light and graceful steps he danced through the long saloon , with the sovereign who thought never to have found a more dexterous and excellent dancer . 
How all regarded the happy dancer , how many envied him the high favor how increased curiosity , who the masked knight could be . 
Also the Emperor became more and more excited with curiosity , and with great suspense one awaited the hour , when according to mask law , each masked guest must make himself known . 
He opened it , and none of the high ladies and knights knew him . 
But from the crowded spectators , officials advanced , who recognized the black dancer , and horror and terror spread in the saloon , as they said who the supposed knight was . 
It was the executioner of Bergen . 
The culpable threw himself at the Emperor , and said 'Indeed I have heavily sinned against all noble guests assembled here , but most heavily against you my sovereign and my queen . 
The Queen is insulted by my haughtiness equal to treason , but no punishment even blood , will not be able to wash out the disgrace , which you have suffered by me . 
Therefore oh King ! allow me to propose a remedy , to efface the shame , and to render it as if not done . 
Draw your sword and knight me , then I will throw down my gauntlet , to everyone who dares to speak disrespectfully of my king . 
CHAPTER II Heidelberg Landing a Monarch at Heidelberg We stopped at a hotel by the railway station . 
He shed an official glance upon the situation , and then began to give orders . 
This carpet was carried away and the last grain of dust beaten and banged and swept our of it then brought back and put down again . 
The brass stair rods received an exhaustive polishing and were returned to their places . 
Now a troop of servants brought pots and tubs of blooming plants and formed them into a beautiful jungle about the door and the base of the staircase . 
Other servants adorned all the balconies of the various stories with flowers and banners others ascended to the roof and hoisted a great flag on a staff there . 
Now came some more chamber maids and retouched the sidewalk , and afterward wiped the marble steps with damp cloths and finished by dusting them off with feather brushes . 
Now a broad black carpet was brought out and laid down the marble steps and out across the sidewalk to the curbstone . 
He finally had it taken up , and then he put it down himself and got it right . 
This red path cost the PORTIER more trouble than even the black one had done . 
But he patiently fixed and refixed it until it was exactly right and lay precisely in the middle of the black carpet . 
Occasionally one of them skipped irreverently over the carpet and took up a position on the other side . 
This always visibly annoyed the PORTIER . 
Now came a waiting interval . 
Nobody moved or spoke any more but only waited . 
In a short time the shrill piping of a coming train was heard , and immediately groups of people began to gather in the street . 
Two or three open carriages arrived , and deposited some maids of honor and some male officials at the hotel . 
Presently another open carriage brought the Grand Duke of Baden , a stately man in uniform , who wore the handsome brass mounted , steel spiked helmet of the army on his head . 
It appears to be as difficult to land a monarch as it is to launch a ship . 
The weather was growing pretty warm , very warm , in fact . 
So we left the valley and took quarters at the Schloss Hotel , on the hill , above the Castle . 
The building seems very airily situated . 
This hotel had a feature which was a decided novelty , and one which might be adopted with advantage by any house which is perched in a commanding situation . 
This feature may be described as a series of glass enclosed parlors CLINGING TO THE OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE , one against each and every bed chamber and drawing room . 
They are like long , narrow , high ceiled bird cages hung against the building . 
My room was a corner room , and had two of these things , a north one and a west one . 
From the north cage one looks up the Neckar gorge from the west one he looks down it . 
This last affords the most extensive view , and it is one of the loveliest that can be imagined , too . 
Out of a billowy upheaval of vivid green foliage , a rifle shot removed , rises the huge ruin of Heidelberg Castle , . 
Behind the Castle swells a great dome shaped hill , forest clad , and beyond that a nobler and loftier one . 
The Castle looks down upon the compact brown roofed town and from the town two picturesque old bridges span the river . 
I have never enjoyed a view which had such a serene and satisfying charm about it as this one gives . 
I took it to be rain , but it turned out to be only the murmur of the restless Neckar , tumbling over her dikes and dams far below , in the gorge . 
I got up and went into the west balcony and saw a wonderful sight . 
I did not know before , that a half mile of sextuple railway tracks could be made such an adornment . 
They have peopled all that region with gnomes , and dwarfs , and all sorts of mysterious and uncanny creatures . 
It was a place which was peculiarly meet for the occasion . 
The world was bright with sunshine outside , but a deep and mellow twilight reigned in there , and also a deep silence so profound that I seemed to hear my own breathings . 
It made me start and then I was angry because I started . 
I looked up , and the creature was sitting on a limb right over me , looking down at me . 
I eyed the raven , and the raven eyed me . 
Nothing was said during some seconds . 
However , I made no reply I would not bandy words with a raven . 
I still made no reply . 
Now the adversary raised his head and called . 
There was an answering croak from a little distance in the wood evidently a croak of inquiry . 
The adversary explained with enthusiasm , and the other raven dropped everything and came . 
The two sat side by side on the limb and discussed me as freely and offensively as two great naturalists might discuss a new kind of bug . 
The thing became more and more embarrassing . 
They called in another friend . 
I saw that they had the advantage of me , and so I concluded to get out of the scrape by walking out of it . 
They enjoyed my defeat as much as any low white people could have done . 
, they squalled insulting remarks after me as long as they could see me . 
Animals talk to each other , of course . 
There can be no question about that but I suppose there are very few people who can understand them . 
I never knew but one man who could . 
I knew he could , however , because he told me so himself . 
Baker said , that after long and careful observation , he had come to the conclusion that the bluejays were the best talkers he had found among birds and beasts . 
Said he There's more TO a bluejay than any other creature . 
He has got more moods , and more different kinds of feelings than other creatures and , mind you , whatever a bluejay feels , he can put into language . 
You may say a cat uses good grammar . 
Ignorant people think it's the NOISE which fighting cats make that is so aggravating , but it ain't so it's the sickening grammar they use . 
Now I've never heard a jay use bad grammar but very seldom and when they do , they are as ashamed as a human they shut right down and leave . 
You may call a jay a bird . 
And I'll tell you for why . 
A jay's gifts , and instincts , and feelings , and interests , cover the whole ground . 
A jay hasn't got any more principle than a Congressman . 
The sacredness of an obligation is such a thing which you can't cram into no bluejay's head . 
Now , on top of all this , there's another thing a jay can out swear any gentleman in the mines . 
You think a cat can swear . 
Yes , sir , a jay is everything that a man is . 
If a jay ain't human , he better take in his sign , that's all . 
Now I'm going to tell you a perfectly true fact about some bluejays . 
CHAPTER III Baker's Bluejay Yarn What Stumped the Blue Jays When I first begun to understand jay language correctly , there was a little incident happened here . 
Seven years ago , the last man in this region but me moved away . 
There stands his house been empty ever since a log house , with a plank roof just one big room , and no more no ceiling nothing between the rafters and the floor . 
It was a knot hole in the roof . 
He studied a while , then he just went into the Details walked round and round the hole and spied into it from every point of the compass . 
He fetched another acorn , and done his level best to see what become of it , but he couldn't . 
He says , 'Well , I never struck no such a hole as this before I'm of the opinion it's a totally new kind of a hole . 
Then he begun to get mad . 
I never see a bird take on so about a little thing . 
You never see a bird work so since you was born . 
He never stopped to take a look anymore he just hove 'em in and went for more . 
Well , at last he could hardly flop his wings , he was so tuckered out . 
If you'll believe me , when his head come up again he was just pale with rage . 
I see in a second that what I had mistook for profanity in the mines was only just the rudiments , as you may say . 
Another jay was going by , and heard him doing his devotions , and stops to inquire what was up . 
The sufferer told him the whole circumstance , and says , 'Now yonder's the hole , and if you don't believe me , go and look for yourself . 
So this fellow went and looked , and comes back and says , How many did you say you put in there ? 'Not any less than two tons , says the sufferer . 
The other jay went and looked again . 
He couldn't seem to make it out , so he raised a yell , and three more jays come . 
They called in more jays then more and more , till pretty soon this whole region 'peared to have a blue flush about it . 
There must have been five thousand of them and such another jawing and disputing and ripping and cussing , you never heard . 
Every jay in the whole lot put his eye to the hole and delivered a more chuckle headed opinion about the mystery than the jay that went there before him . 
They examined the house all over , too . 
The door was standing half open , and at last one old jay happened to go and light on it and look in . 
Of course , that knocked the mystery galley west in a second . 
There lay the acorns , scattered all over the floor . 
He flopped his wings and raised a whoop . 
Well , sir , they roosted around here on the housetop and the trees for an hour , and guffawed over that thing like human beings . 
It ain't any use to tell me a bluejay hasn't got a sense of humor , because I know better . 
They brought jays here from all over the United States to look down that hole , every summer for three years . 
And they could all see the point except an owl that come from Nova Scotia to visit the Yo Semite , and he took this thing in on his way back . 
He said he couldn't see anything funny in it . 
But then he was a good deal disappointed about Yo Semite , too . 
CHAPTER IV Student Life The Laborious Beer King The summer semester was in full tide consequently the most frequent figure in and about Heidelberg was the student . 
Most of the students were Germans , of course , but the representatives of foreign lands were very numerous . 
They hailed from every corner of the globe for instruction is cheap in Heidelberg , and so is living , too . 
The Anglo American Club , composed of British and American students , had twenty five members , and there was still much material left to draw from . 
Nine tenths of the Heidelberg students wore no badge or uniform the other tenth wore caps of various colors , and belonged to social organizations called corps . 
There were five corps , each with a color of its own there were white caps , blue caps , and red , yellow , and green ones . 
The famous duel fighting is confined to the corps boys . 
The KNEIP seems to be a specialty of theirs , too . 
Kneips are held , now and then , to celebrate great occasions , like the election of a beer king , for instance . 
The election is soon decided . 
When the candidates can hold no more , a count is instituted and the one who has drank the greatest number of pints is proclaimed king . 
I was told that the last beer king elected by the corps or by his own capabilities emptied his mug seventy five times . 
No stomach could hold all that quantity at one time , of course but there are ways of frequently creating a vacuum , which those who have been much at sea will understand . 
One sees so many students abroad at all hours , that he presently begins to wonder if they ever have any working hours . 
Some of them have , some of them haven't . 
Each can choose for himself whether he will work or play for German university life is a very free life it seems to have no restraints . 
The student does not live in the college buildings , but hires his own lodgings , in any locality he prefers , and he takes his meals when and where he pleases . 
He goes to bed when it suits him , and does not get up at all unless he wants to . 
He is not entered at the university for any particular length of time so he is likely to change about . 
He passes no examinations upon entering college . 
He merely pays a trifling fee of five or ten dollars , receives a card entitling him to the privileges of the university , and that is the end of it . 
He is now ready for business or play , as he shall prefer . 
If he elects to work , he finds a large list of lectures to choose from . 
He selects the subjects which he will study , and enters his name for these studies but he can skip attendance . 
I heard of one case where , day after day , the lecturer's audience consisted of three students and always the same three . 
But one day two of them remained away . 
The lecturer began as usual Gentlemen , then , without a smile , he corrected himself , saying Sir , and went on with his discourse . 
The professors assist them in the saving of their time by being promptly in their little boxed up pulpits when the hours strike , and as promptly out again when the hour finishes . 
I entered an empty lecture room one day just before the clock struck . 
The place had simple , unpainted pine desks and benches for about two hundred persons . 
About a minute before the clock struck , a hundred and fifty students swarmed in , rushed to their seats , immediately spread open their notebooks and dipped their pens in ink . 
An instant rush for some other lecture room followed , and in a minute I was alone with the empty benches once more . 
Yes , without doubt , idle students are not the rule . 
Out of eight hundred in the town , I knew the faces of only about fifty but these I saw everywhere , and daily . 
They walked about the streets and the wooded hills , they drove in cabs , they boated on the river , they sipped beer and coffee , afternoons , in the Schloss gardens . 
A good many of them wore colored caps of the corps . 
They were finely and fashionably dressed , their manners were quite superb , and they led an easy , careless , comfortable life . 
If a dozen of them sat together and a lady or a gentleman passed whom one of them knew and saluted , they all rose to their feet and took off their caps . 
The members of a corps always received a fellow member in this way , too but they paid no attention to members of other corps they did not seem to see them . 
This was not a discourtesy it was only a part of the elaborate and rigid corps etiquette . 
There seems to be no chilly distance existing between the German students and the professor but , on the contrary , a companionable intercourse , the opposite of chilliness and reserve . 
Nobody finds fault or feels outraged no harm has been done . 
It seemed to be a part of corps etiquette to keep a dog or so , too . 
I mean a corps dog the common property of the organization , like the corps steward or head servant then there are other dogs , owned by individuals . 
It was a very imposing spectacle . 
Sometimes there would be as many dogs around the pavilion as students and of all breeds and of all degrees of beauty and ugliness . 
However , they got a lump of sugar occasionally they were fond of that . 
It seemed right and proper that students should indulge in dogs but everybody else had them , too old men and young ones , old women and nice young ladies . 
If there is one spectacle that is unpleasanter than another , it is that of an elegantly dressed young lady towing a dog by a string . 
It is said to be the sign and symbol of blighted love . 
It seems to me that some other way of advertising it might be devised , which would be just as conspicuous and yet not so trying to the proprieties . 
It would be a mistake to suppose that the easy going pleasure seeking student carries an empty head . 
He has spent nine years in the gymnasium , under a system which allowed him no freedom , but vigorously compelled him to work like a slave . 
For instance , he does not merely read and write Greek , but speaks it the same with the Latin . 
Foreign youth steer clear of the gymnasium its rules are too severe . 
CHAPTER V At the Students' Dueling Ground Dueling by Wholesale One day in the interest of science my agent obtained permission to bring me to the students' dueling place . 
We went upstairs and passed into a large whitewashed apartment which was perhaps fifty feet long by thirty feet wide and twenty or twenty five high . 
It was a well lighted place . 
Across one end and down both sides of the room extended a row of tables , and at these tables some fifty or seventy five students . 
See Appendix C were sitting . 
Some of them were sipping wine , others were playing cards , others chess , other groups were chatting together , and many were smoking cigarettes while they waited for the coming duels . 
He understood his business for when a sword left his hand one could shave himself with it . 
It was observable that the young gentlemen neither bowed to nor spoke with students whose caps differed in color from their own . 
This did not mean hostility , but only an armed neutrality . 
At intervals the presidents of the five corps have a cold official intercourse with each other , but nothing further . 
It chanced that the present occasion was the battle day of the Red Cap Corps . 
They were the challengers , and certain caps of other colors had volunteered to meet them . 
The students fight duels in the room which I have described , TWO DAYS IN EVERY WEEK DURING SEVEN AND A HALF OR EIGHT MONTHS IN EVERY YEAR . 
This custom had continued in Germany two hundred and fifty years . 
To return to my narrative . 
They were students panoplied for the duel . 
These weird apparitions had been handsome youths , clad in fashionable attire , fifteen minutes before , but now they did not resemble any beings one ever sees unless in nightmares . 
They strode along , with their arms projecting straight out from their bodies they did not hold them out themselves , but fellow students walked beside them and gave the needed support . 
There was a rush for the vacant end of the room , now , and we followed and got good places . 
Everything was ready now students stood crowded together in the foreground , and others stood behind them on chairs and tables . 
Every face was turned toward the center of attraction . 
The combatants were watching each other with alert eyes a perfect stillness , a breathless interest reigned . 
I felt that I was going to see some wary work . 
The seconds cried Halt ! and knocked up the combatants' swords with their own . 
The wonderful turmoil went on presently a bright spark sprung from a blade , and that blade broken in several pieces , sent one of its fragments flying to the ceiling . 
A new sword was provided and the fight proceeded . 
The exercise was tremendous , of course , and in time the fighters began to show great fatigue . 
At last it was decided that the men were too much wearied to do battle longer . 
They were led away drenched with crimson from head to foot . 
, and partly because neither man was disabled by his wound . 
It was a drawn battle , and corps law requires that drawn battles shall be refought as soon as the adversaries are well of their hurts . 
The duel presently began and in the same furious way which had marked the previous one . 
I stood close by , but could not tell which blows told and which did not , they fell and vanished so like flashes of light . 
Early in the next round the White Corps student got an ugly wound on the side of his head and gave his opponent one like it . 
In the third round the latter received another bad wound in the head , and the former had his under lip divided . 
After that , the White Corps student gave many severe wounds , but got none of the consequence in return . 
At the end of five minutes from the beginning of the duel the surgeon stopped it the challenging party had suffered such injuries that any addition to them might be dangerous . 
These injuries were a fearful spectacle , but are better left undescribed . 
So , against expectation , my acquaintance was the victor . 
CHAPTER VI A Sport that Sometimes Kills The third duel was brief and bloody . 
The surgeon stopped it when he saw that one of the men had received such bad wounds that he could not fight longer without endangering his life . 
I had but a glance , and then turned quickly , but I would not have been looking at all if I had known what was coming . 
Sometimes spectators of these duels faint and it does seem a very reasonable thing to do , too . 
Both parties to this fourth duel were badly hurt so much that the surgeon was at work upon them nearly or quite an hour a fact which is suggestive . 
But this waiting interval was not wasted in idleness by the assembled students . 
Finally the doctor finished , and the men who were to fight the closing battle of the day came forth . 
A good many dinners were not completed , yet , but no matter , they could be eaten cold , after the battle therefore everybody crowded forth to see . 
This was not a love duel , but a satisfaction affair . 
These two students had quarreled , and were here to settle it . 
They did not belong to any of the corps , but they were furnished with weapons and armor , and permitted to fight here by the five corps as a courtesy . 
Evidently these two young men were unfamiliar with the dueling ceremonies , though they were not unfamiliar with the sword . 
This vastly amused the spectators , and even broke down their studied and courtly gravity and surprised them into laughter . 
Of course the seconds struck up the swords and started the duel over again . 
It was now two in the afternoon , and I had been present since half past nine in the morning . 
The field of battle was indeed a red one by this time but some sawdust soon righted that . 
There had been one duel before I arrived . 
In it one of the men received many injuries , while the other one escaped without a scratch . 
This was good fortitude , indeed . 
The doctor's manipulations brought out neither grimaces nor moans . 
People laugh at it mainly because they think the student is so covered up with armor that he cannot be hurt . 
But it is not so his eyes are ears are protected , but the rest of his face and head are bare . 
He can not only be badly wounded , but his life is in danger and he would sometimes lose it but for the interference of the surgeon . 
It is not intended that his life shall be endangered . 
Fatal accidents are possible , however . 
This has happened , sometimes , and death has resulted on the spot . 
Indeed , there is blood and pain and danger enough about the college duel to entitle it to a considerable degree of respect . 
All the customs , all the laws , all the details , pertaining to the student duel are quaint and naive . 
The grave , precise , and courtly ceremony with which the thing is conducted , invests it with a sort of antique charm . 
This dignity and these knightly graces suggest the tournament , not the prize fight . 
The laws are as curious as they are strict . 
For instance , the duelist may step forward from the line he is placed upon , if he chooses , but never back of it . 
It would seem natural to step from under a descending sword unconsciously , and against one's will and intent yet this unconsciousness is not allowed . 
CHAPTER VII How Bismark Fought In addition to the corps laws , there are some corps usages which have the force of laws . 
No , there is no law against declining except the law of custom , which is confessedly stronger than written law , everywhere . 
The white cap student who won the second fight witnessed the remaining three , and talked with us during the intermissions . 
The man who was the worst hurt of all played chess while waiting to see this engagement . 
A good part of his face was covered with patches and bandages , and all the rest of his head was covered and concealed by them . 
Newly bandaged students are a very common spectacle in the public gardens of Heidelberg . 
They crisscross the face in angry red welts , and are permanent and ineffaceable . 
We had often noticed that many of the students wore a colored silk band or ribbon diagonally across their breasts . 
It transpired that this signifies that the wearer has fought three duels in which a decision was reached duels in which he either whipped or was whipped for drawn battles do not count . 
Statistics show that he does NOT prefer to remain quiescent . 
They show that the duel has a singular fascination about it somewhere , for these free men , so far from resting upon the privilege of the badge , are always volunteering . 
A corps student told me it was of record that Prince Bismarck fought thirty two of these duels in a single summer term when he was in college . 
So he fought twenty nine after his badge had given him the right to retire from the field . 
Nearly every individual wore the ribbon across his breast . 
an entire Corps , I took pains to count the ribbons there were twenty seven members , and twenty one of them wore that significant badge . 
The statistics may be found to possess interest in several particulars . 
Two days in every week are devoted to dueling . 
The rule is rigid that there must be three duels on each of these days there are generally more , but there cannot be fewer . 
There were six the day I was present sometimes there are seven or eight . 
Consequently eighty youths furnish the material for some two hundred and fifty duels a year . 
This average gives six fights a year to each of the eighty . 
This large work could not be accomplished if the badge holders stood upon their privilege and ceased to volunteer . 
They have to borrow the arms because they could not get them elsewhere or otherwise . 
As I understand it , the public authorities , all over Germany , allow the five Corps to keep swords , but DO NOT ALLOW THEM TO USE THEM . 
This is law is rigid it is only the execution of it that is lax . 
Of course , where there is so much fighting , the students make it a point to keep themselves in constant practice with the foil . 
Necessarily , this unceasing attention to the art develops an expert occasionally . 
He becomes famous in his own university , his renown spreads to other universities . 
Americans and Englishmen often join one or another of the five corps . 
There was formerly a student in Heidelberg who had picked up somewhere and mastered a peculiar trick of cutting up under instead of cleaving down from above . 
A rule which forbids social intercourse between members of different corps is strict . 
In the dueling house , in the parks , on the street , and anywhere and everywhere that the students go , caps of a color group themselves together . 
The student by whose courtesy we had been enabled to visit the dueling place , wore the white cap Prussian Corps . 
He introduced us to many white caps , but to none of another color . 
Figure The length of these swords is about three feet , and they are quite heavy . 
One's disposition to cheer , during the course of the duels or at their close , was naturally strong , but corps etiquette forbade any demonstrations of this sort . 
However brilliant a contest or a victory might be , no sign or sound betrayed that any one was moved . 
A dignified gravity and repression were maintained at all times . 
An account of it , in the next chapter , will show the reader that duels between boys , for fun , and duels between men in earnest , are very different affairs . 
Since it is always fought in the open air , the combatants are nearly sure to catch cold . 
And it ought also to moderate that foolish talk about French duelists and socialist hated monarchs being the only people who are immoral . 
But it is time to get at my subject . 
As soon as I heard of the late fiery outbreak between M. Gambetta and M. Fourtou in the French Assembly , I knew that trouble must follow . 
I knew it because a long personal friendship with M. Gambetta revealed to me the desperate and implacable nature of the man . 
Vast as are his physical proportions , I knew that the thirst for revenge would penetrate to the remotest frontiers of his person . 
I did not wait for him to call on me , but went at once to him . 
As I had expected , I found the brave fellow steeped in a profound French calm . 
I say French calm , because French calmness and English calmness have points of difference . 
As soon as I had got well again , we began business at once . 
I said I supposed he would wish me to act as his second , and he said , Of course . 
I said I must be allowed to act under a French name , so that I might be shielded from obloquy in my country , in case of fatal results . 
He winced here , probably at the suggestion that dueling was not regarded with respect in America . 
However , he agreed to my requirement . 
This accounts for the fact that in all the newspaper reports M. Gambetta's second was apparently a Frenchman . 
First , we drew up my principal's will . 
I insisted upon this , and stuck to my point . 
I said I had never heard of a man in his right mind going out to fight a duel without first making his will . 
He said he had never heard of a man in his right mind doing anything of the kind . 
When he had finished the will , he wished to proceed to a choice of his last words . 
I said that this remark seemed to lack relevancy but he said relevancy was a matter of no consequence in last words , what you wanted was thrill . 
The next thing in order was the choice of weapons . 
My principal said he was not feeling well , and would leave that and the other details of the proposed meeting to me . 
I am , sir , with great respect , Mark Twain . 
M. Fourtou's friend read this note , and shuddered . 
Now , if it is a fair question , what was your side proposing to shed ? I had him there . 
He saw he had made a blunder , so he hastened to explain it away . 
He said he had spoken jestingly . 
So I framed this idea into a proposition . 
But it was not accepted . 
The code was in the way again . 
I proposed rifles then double barreled shotguns then Colt's navy revolvers . 
These being all rejected , I reflected awhile , and sarcastically suggested brickbats at three quarters of a mile . 
Then I said Well , I am at the end of my string , now . 
He fished out of his vest pocket a couple of little things which I carried to the light and ascertained to be pistols . 
They were single barreled and silver mounted , and very dainty and pretty . 
I was not able to speak for emotion . 
I silently hung one of them on my watch chain , and returned the other . 
My companion in crime now unrolled a postage stamp containing several cartridges , and gave me one of them . 
I asked if he meant to signify by this that our men were to be allowed but one shot apiece . 
He replied that the French code permitted no more . 
I then begged him to go and suggest a distance , for my mind was growing weak and confused under the strain which had been put upon it . 
He named sixty five yards . 
I nearly lost my patience . 
I said Sixty five yards , with these instruments ? Squirt guns would be deadlier at fifty . 
Consider , my friend , you and I are banded together to destroy life , not make it eternal . 
There was nothing for me but to go home to my old lion heart and tell my humiliating story . 
When I entered , M. Gambetta was laying his last lock of hair upon the altar . 
He sprang toward me , exclaiming You have made the fatal arrangements I see it in your eye ! I have . 
His face paled a trifle , and he leaned upon the table for support . 
He cast but one glance at it , then swooned ponderously to the floor . 
When he came to , he said mournfully The unnatural calm to which I have subjected myself has told upon my nerves . 
But away with weakness ! I will confront my fate like a man and a Frenchman . 
He rose to his feet , and assumed an attitude which for sublimity has never been approached by man , and has seldom been surpassed by statues . 
Then he said , in his deep bass tones Behold , I am calm , I am ready reveal to me the distance . 
I could not lift him up , of course but I rolled him over , and poured water down his back . 
He seemed greatly surprised , and immediately said Insanity ! I never heard of such a thing . 
Nobody is abroad at such an hour . 
That is the reason I named it . 
Do you mean to say you want an audience ? It is no time to bandy words . 
I am astonished that M. Fourtou should ever have agreed to so strange an innovation . 
Go at once and require a later hour . 
I ran downstairs , threw open the front door , and almost plunged into the arms of M. Fourtou's second . 
He said I have the honor to say that my principal strenuously objects to the hour chosen , and begs you will consent to change it to half past nine . 
Any courtesy , sir , which it is in our power to extend is at the service of your excellent principal . 
We agree to the proposed change of time . 
I beg you to accept the thanks of my client . 
Then he turned to a person behind him , and said , You hear , M. Noir , the hour is altered to half past nine . 
Whereupon M. Noir bowed , expressed his thanks , and went away . 
My accomplice continued If agreeable to you , your chief surgeons and ours shall proceed to the field in the same carriage as is customary . 
It is entirely agreeable to me , and I am obliged to you for mentioning the surgeons , for I am afraid I should not have thought of them . 
How many shall I want ? I supposed two or three will be enough ? Two is the customary number for each party . 
These will come in their own private carriages . 
Have you engaged a hearse ? Bless my stupidity , I never thought of it ! I will attend to it right away . 
I must seem very ignorant to you but you must try to overlook that , because I have never had any experience of such a swell duel as this before . 
I have had a good deal to do with duels on the Pacific coast , but I see now that they were crude affairs . 
A hearse sho ! we used to leave the elected lying around loose , and let anybody cord them up and cart them off that wanted to . 
Have you anything further to suggest ? Nothing , except that the head undertakers shall ride together , as is usual . 
The subordinates and mutes will go on foot , as is also usual . 
I will see you at eight o'clock in the morning , and we will then arrange the order of the procession . 
I have the honor to bid you a good day . 
I returned to my client , who said , Very well at what hour is the engagement to begin ? Half past nine . 
Therefore go on with the other details , and drop this one from your list . 
The bloody minded Fourtou will be sure to attend to it . 
H'm ! I might have known it . 
It is just like that Fourtou , who always wants to make a display . 
It was a noble turnout , and would have made a fine display if we had had thinner weather . 
Arrived on the field , my fellow second and I paced off the thirty five yards , and then drew lots for choice of position . 
This latter was but an ornamental ceremony , for all the choices were alike in such weather . 
These preliminaries being ended , I went to my principal and asked him if he was ready . 
He spread himself out to his full width , and said in a stern voice , Ready ! Let the batteries be charged . 
The loading process was done in the presence of duly constituted witnesses . 
We considered it best to perform this delicate service with the assistance of a lantern , on account of the state of the weather . 
We now placed our men . 
The police having ordered the two multitudes to take positions behind the duelists , we were once more ready . 
I now returned to my principal , and was distressed to observe that he had lost a good deal of his spirit . 
I tried my best to hearten him . 
I said , Indeed , sir , things are not as bad as they seem . 
There are chances that both of you may survive . 
Therefore , cheer up do not be downhearted . 
This speech had so good an effect that my principal immediately stretched forth his hand and said , I am myself again give me the weapon . 
I laid it , all lonely and forlorn , in the center of the vast solitude of his palm . 
He gazed at it and shuddered . 
And still mournfully contemplating it , he murmured in a broken voice Alas , it is not death I dread , but mutilation . 
I heartened him once more , and with such success that he presently said , Let the tragedy begin . 
Stand at my back do not desert me in this solemn hour , my friend . 
I gave him my promise . 
Bruised as I was , I was still able to catch a faint accent from above , to this effect I die for . 
perdition take it , what IS it I die for ? . 
Then a scene ensued which was in every way gratifying and inspiriting . 
It seems to me then that I would rather be a hero of a French duel than a crowned and sceptered monarch . 
They then set my left arm in two places , pulled my right hip into its socket again , and re elevated my nose . 
The cross of the Legion of Honor has been conferred upon me . 
However , few escape that distinction . 
Such is the true version of the most memorable private conflict of the age . 
I have no complaints to make against any one . 
I acted for myself , and I can stand the consequences . 
CHAPTER IX What the Beautiful Maiden Said One day we took the train and went down to Mannheim to see King Lear played in German . 
The behavior of the audience was perfect . 
There were no rustlings , or whisperings , or other little disturbances each act was listened to in silence , and the applauding was done after the curtain was down . 
A German gentleman in the train had said that a Shakespearian play was an appreciated treat in Germany and that we should find the house filled . 
Another time , we went to Mannheim and attended a shivaree otherwise an opera the one called Lohengrin . 
The banging and slamming and booming and crashing were something beyond belief . 
The racking and pitiless pain of it remains stored up in my memory alongside the memory of the time that I had my teeth fixed . 
To have to endure it in silence , and sitting still , made it all the harder . 
I do not wish to suggest that the rest of the people there were like me , for , indeed , they were not . 
This was not comprehensible to me . 
Of course , there were many people there who were not under compulsion to stay yet the tiers were as full at the close as they had been at the beginning . 
This showed that the people liked it . 
It was a curious sort of a play . 
In the manner of costumes and scenery it was fine and showy enough but there was not much action . 
That is to say , there was not much really done , it was only talked about and always violently . 
It was what one might call a narrative play . 
Everybody had a narrative and a grievance , and none were reasonable about it , but all in an offensive and ungovernable state . 
We only had one brief little season of heaven and heaven's sweet ecstasy and peace during all this long and diligent and acrimonious reproduction of the other place . 
This was while a gorgeous procession of people marched around and around , in the third act , and sang the Wedding Chorus . 
To my untutored ear that was music almost divine music . 
There is where the deep ingenuity of the operatic idea is betrayed . 
It deals so largely in pain that its scattered delights are prodigiously augmented by the contrasts . 
A pretty air in an opera is prettier there than it could be anywhere else , I suppose , just as an honest man in politics shines more than he would elsewhere . 
I have since found out that there is nothing the Germans like so much as an opera . 
They like it , not in a mild and moderate way , but with their whole hearts . 
This is a legitimate result of habit and education . 
Our nation will like the opera , too , by and by , no doubt . 
The latter usually hum the airs while they are being sung , so that their neighbors may perceive that they have been to operas before . 
The funerals of these do not occur often enough . 
A gentle , old maidish person and a sweet young girl of seventeen sat right in front of us that night at the Mannheim opera . 
These people talked , between the acts , and I understood them , though I understood nothing that was uttered on the distant stage . 
How pretty she was , and how sweet she was ! I wished she would speak . 
But evidently she was absorbed in her own thoughts , her own young girl dreams , and found a dearer pleasure in silence . 
But she was not dreaming sleepy dreams no , she was awake , alive , alert , she could not sit still a moment . 
She was an enchanting study . 
For long hours I did mightily wish she would speak . 
Yes , it must have been very much over the average . 
She became a sort of contribution box . 
This dear young thing in the theater had been sitting there unconsciously taking up a collection . 
Many a skinny old being in our neighborhood was the happier and the restfuler for her coming . 
In that large audience , that night , there were eight very conspicuous people . 
These were ladies who had their hats or bonnets on . 
What a blessed thing it would be if a lady could make herself conspicuous in our theaters by wearing her hat . 
CHAPTER X How Wagner Operas Bang Along Three or four hours . 
She said that six hours of Wagner was by no means too much . 
She said that this composer had made a complete revolution in music and was burying the old masters one by one . 
I said I had attended one of his insurrections , and found hardly ANY music in it except the Wedding Chorus . 
I had attended that very opera , in the person of my agent , and had made close and accurate observations . 
So I said Why , madam , MY experience warrants me in stating that that tenor's voice is not a voice at all , but only a shriek the shriek of a hyena . 
JAWOHL BEI GOTT ! his voice is WUNDERSCHO N in that past time . 
I said she was discovering to me a kindly trait in the Germans which was worth emulating . 
once , and this large experience had nearly persuaded me that the Germans PREFERRED singers who couldn't sing . 
And the tenor in Hanover was just another example of this sort . 
The English speaking German gentleman who went with me to the opera there was brimming with enthusiasm over that tenor . 
He said ACH GOTT ! a great man ! You shall see him . 
He is so celebrate in all Germany and he has a pension , yes , from the government . 
He not obliged to sing now , only twice every year but if he not sing twice each year they take him his pension away . 
Very well , we went . 
When the renowned old tenor appeared , I got a nudge and an excited whisper Now you see him ! But the celebrate was an astonishing disappointment to me . 
If he had been behind a screen I should have supposed they were performing a surgical operation on him . 
I looked at my friend to my great surprise he seemed intoxicated with pleasure , his eyes were dancing with eager delight . 
ACH , no , NOW he not sing any more , he only cry . 
When he think he sing , now , he not sing at all , no , he only make like a cat which is unwell . 
Where and how did we get the idea that the Germans are a stolid , phlegmatic race ? In truth , they are widely removed from that . 
They are warm hearted , emotional , impulsive , enthusiastic , their tears come at the mildest touch , and it is not hard to move them to laughter . 
They are the very children of impulse . 
We are cold and self contained , compared to the Germans . 
They hug and kiss and cry and shout and dance and sing and where we use one loving , petting expressions they pour out a score . 
In the theaters at Hanover , Hamburg , and Mannheim , they had a wise custom . 
The moment the curtain went up , the light in the body of the house went down . 
The audience sat in the cool gloom of a deep twilight , which greatly enhanced the glowing splendors of the stage . 
It saved gas , too , and people were not sweated to death . 
Even when the stage was being entirely reset , one heard no noise . 
During the whole time that King Lear was playing the curtain was never down two minutes at any one time . 
The orchestra played until the curtain was ready to go up for the first time , then they departed for the evening . 
Where the stage waits never each two minutes there is no occasion for music . 
I had never seen this two minute business between acts but once before , and that was when the Shaughraun was played at Wallack's . 
You see , they had made those late comers wait in the comfortable waiting parlor from the time the music had begin until it was ended . 
It was the first time I had ever seen this sort of criminals denied the privilege of destroying the comfort of a house full of their betters . 
They gave us checks for them and charged a fixed price , payable in advance five cents . 
In Germany they always hear one thing at an opera which has never yet been heard in America , perhaps I mean the closing strain of a fine solo or duet . 
We always smash into it with an earthquake of applause . 
The result is that we rob ourselves of the sweetest part of the treat we get the whiskey , but we don't get the sugar in the bottom of the glass . 
Our way of scattering applause along through an act seems to me to be better than the Mannheim way of saving it all up till the act is ended . 
I do not see how an actor can forget himself and portray hot passion before a cold still audience . 
I should think he would feel foolish . 
To me there was something unspeakably uncomfortable in the solemn dead silences that always followed this old person's tremendous outpourings of his feelings . 
Run and put on your breastpin , and then come and tell us all about it . 
It was a cruel chill to give to a poor little devil's gushing vehemence . 
I turned and crept away for I was that boy and never even cared to discover whether I had dreamed the fire or actually seen it . 
Kings may encore that is quite another matter it delights everybody to see that the King is pleased and as to the actor encored , his pride and gratification are simply boundless . 
Still , there are circumstances in which even a royal encore But it is better to illustrate . 
Once he took an odd freak into his head . 
American managers might want to make a note of that . 
The King was sole audience . 
The King's interest rose higher and higher it developed into enthusiasm . 
The richly dressed actresses and actors tripped about singing bravely and pretending not to mind it . 
The King was delighted his enthusiasm grew higher . 
It was royal idea that storm and royally carried out . 
But observe the moderation of the King he did not insist upon his encore . 
If he had been a gladsome , unreflecting American opera audience , he probably would have had his storm repeated and repeated until he drowned all those people . 
CHAPTER XI I Paint a Turner The summer days passed pleasantly in Heidelberg . 
See Appendix D for information concerning this fearful tongue . 
and more than satisfied with what we had accomplished in art . 
We had had the best instructors in drawing and painting in Germany Ha mmerling , Vogel , Mu ller , Dietz , and Schumann . 
Ha mmerling taught us landscape painting . 
Vogel taught us figure drawing , Mu ller taught us to do still life , and Dietz and Schumann gave us a finishing course in two specialties battle pieces and shipwrecks . 
Whatever I am in Art I owe to these men . 
I have something of the manner of each and all of them but they all said that I had also a manner of my own , and that it was conspicuous . 
Secretly I wanted to believe all these kind sayings , but I could not I was afraid that my masters' partiality for me , and pride in me , biased their judgment . 
So I resolved to make a test . 
To my great gratification it was instantly recognized as mine . 
All the town flocked to see it , and people even came from neighboring localities to visit it . 
It made more stir than any other work in the Exhibition . 
Apparently nobody had ever done that . 
There was nothing in the books about that lovely region it had been neglected by the tourist , it was virgin soil for the literary pioneer . 
Meantime the knapsacks , the rough walking suits and the stout walking shoes which we had ordered , were finished and brought to us . 
A Mr. X and a young Mr. Z had agreed to go with us . 
We went around one evening and bade good by to our friends , and afterward had a little farewell banquet at the hotel . 
We got to bed early , for we wanted to make an early start , so as to take advantage of the cool of the morning . 
Harris carried the little watch like machine called a pedometer , whose office is to keep count of a man's steps and tell how far he has walked . 
The train was just starting , so we jumped aboard and went tearing away in splendid spirits . 
There were some nice German people in our compartment . 
I got to talking some pretty private matters presently , and Harris became nervous so he nudged me and said Speak in German these Germans may understand English . 
I did so , it was well I did for it turned out that there was not a German in that party who did not understand English perfectly . 
It is curious how widespread our language is in Germany . 
After a while some of those folks got out and a German gentleman and his two young daughters got in . 
I spoke in German of one of the latter several times , but without result . 
Finally she said ICH VERSTEHE NUR DEUTCH UND ENGLISHE , or words to that effect . 
That is , I don't understand any language but German and English . 
And sure enough , not only she but her father and sister spoke English . 
So after that we had all the talk we wanted and we wanted a good deal , for they were agreeable people . 
They were greatly interested in our customs especially the alpenstocks , for they had not seen any before . 
It was very picturesque and tumble down , and dirty and interesting . 
It had queer houses five hundred years old in it , and a military tower feet high , which had stood there more than ten centuries . 
I made a little sketch of it . 
I kept a copy , but gave the original to the Burgomaster . 
I think the original was better than the copy , because it had more windows in it and the grass stood up better and had a brisker look . 
There was none around the tower , though I composed the grass myself , from studies I made in a field by Heidelberg in Ha mmerling's time . 
The man on top , looking at the view , is apparently too large , but I found he could not be made smaller , conveniently . 
This harmonizes the seeming discrepancy . 
Figure Near an old cathedral , under a shed , were three crosses of stone moldy and damaged things , bearing life size stone figures . 
The two thieves were dressed in the fanciful court costumes of the middle of the sixteenth century , while the Saviour was nude , with the exception of a cloth around the loins . 
We had dinner under the green trees in a garden belonging to the hotel and overlooking the Neckar then , after a smoke , we went to bed . 
We had a refreshing nap , then got up about three in the afternoon and put on our panoply . 
It was a pretty slow concern , but it got us into Heilbronn before dark five miles , or possibly it was seven . 
Harris and I occupied the same room which he had occupied and the same paper had not quite peeled off the walls yet . 
The furniture was quaint old carved stuff , full four hundred years old , and some of the smells were over a thousand . 
There was a hook in the wall , which the landlord said the terrific old Go tz used to hang his iron hand on when he took it off to go to bed . 
The wallpaper was a fiery red , with huge gold figures in it , well smirched by time , and it covered all the doors . 
These doors fitted so snugly and continued the figures of the paper so unbrokenly , that when they were closed one had to go feeling and searching along the wall to find them . 
The windows looked out on a little alley , and over that into a stable and some poultry and pig yards in the rear of some tenement houses . 
There were the customary two beds in the room , one in one end , the other in the other , about an old fashioned brass mounted , single barreled pistol shot apart . 
CHAPTER XII What the Wives Saved The RATHHAUS , or municipal building , is of the quaintest and most picturesque Middle Age architecture . 
It has a massive portico and steps , before it , heavily balustraded , and adorned with life sized rusty iron knights in complete armor . 
The clock face on the front of the building is very large and of curious pattern . 
We were told , later , than they blew only at night , when the town was still . 
One room in the building was devoted to the preservation of ancient archives . 
He was prompt to take up any poor devil's quarrel and risk his neck to right him . 
The common folk held him dear , and his memory is still green in ballad and tradition . 
He was a doughty warrior and found a deep joy in battle . 
I was glad to get a facsimile of the letter written by this fine old German Robin Hood , though I was not able to read it . 
He was a better artist with his sword than with his pen . 
We went down by the river and saw the Square Tower . 
It was a very venerable structure , very strong , and very ornamental . 
There was no opening near the ground . 
They had to use a ladder to get into it , no doubt . 
We visited the principal church , also a curious old structure , with a towerlike spire adorned with all sorts of grotesque images . 
The family was usually large , but the perspective bad . 
It was a feudal castle of the Middle Ages . 
When we reached its neighborhood we found it was beautifully situated , but on top of a mound , or hill , round and tolerably steep , and about two hundred feet high . 
It was a long and tedious business , for the people made a stubborn and faithful defense . 
But at last their supplies ran out and starvation began its work more fell by hunger than by the missiles of the enemy . 
They by and by surrendered , and begged for charitable terms . 
Then the women came and fell on their knees and begged for the lives of their husbands . 
Very well , presently the gates swung open and out filed those women carrying their HUSBANDS on their shoulders . 
The besiegers , furious at the trick , rushed forward to slaughter the men , but the Duke stepped between and said No , put up your swords a prince's word is inviolable . 
The head waiter picked up the bottle , cast his undertaker eye on it and said It is true I beg pardon . 
Then he turned on his subordinate and calmly said , Bring another label . 
At the same time he slid the present label off with his hand and laid it aside it had been newly put on , its paste was still wet . 
We took a turn around the town , after dinner , and found it fully as interesting in the moonlight as it had been in the daytime . 
The streets were narrow and roughly paved , and there was not a sidewalk or a street lamp anywhere . 
The dwellings were centuries old , and vast enough for hotels . 
Nearly everybody was abroad , chatting , singing , romping , or massed in lazy comfortable attitudes in the doorways . 
In one place there was a public building which was fenced about with a thick , rusty chain , which sagged from post to post in a succession of low swings . 
The pavement , here , was made of heavy blocks of stone . 
In the glare of the moon a party of barefooted children were swinging on those chains and having a noisy good time . 
They were not the first ones who have done that even their great great grandfathers had not been the first to do it when they were children . 
The strokes of the bare feet had worn grooves inches deep in the stone flags it had taken many generations of swinging children to accomplish that . 
The work which we had given the instrument to do during which had just closed had not fatigued it perceptibly . 
We were in bed by ten , for we wanted to be up and away on our tramp homeward with the dawn . 
I hung fire , but Harris went to sleep at once . 
I lay there fretting over this injury , and trying to go to sleep but the harder I tried , the wider awake I grew . 
I got to feeling very lonely in the dark , ith no company but an undigested dinner . 
At the end of an hour my head was in a perfect whirl and I was dead tired , fagged out . 
So I had held my breath all that time for such a trifle . 
Well , what was done could not be helped I would go to sleep at once and make up the lost time . 
That was a thoughtless thought . 
Without intending it hardly knowing it I fell to listening intently to that sound , and even unconsciously counting the strokes of the mouse's nutmeg grater . 
Along at first I was mentally offering a reward of five six seven ten dollars for that mouse but toward the last I was offering rewards which were entirely beyond my means . 
My anger grew to a frenzy . 
I finally did what all persons before me have done , clear back to Adam , resolved to throw something . 
I reached down and got my walking shoes , then sat up in bed and listened , in order to exactly locate the noise . 
But I couldn't do it it was as unlocatable as a cricket's noise and where one thinks that that is , is always the very place where it isn't . 
So I presently hurled a shoe at random , and with a vicious vigor . 
It struck the wall over Harris's head and fell down on him I had not imagined I could throw so far . 
It woke Harris , and I was glad of it until I found he was not angry then I was sorry . 
He soon went to sleep again , which pleased me but straightway the mouse began again , which roused my temper once more . 
I did not want to wake Harris a second time , but the gnawing continued until I was compelled to throw the other shoe . 
This time I broke a mirror there were two in the room I got the largest one , of course . 
Harris woke again , but did not complain , and I was sorrier than ever . 
I resolved that I would suffer all possible torture before I would disturb him a third time . 
Every time I dropped off for the moment , a new noise woke me . 
Each time I woke I missed my coverlet , and had to reach down to the floor and get it again . 
At last all sleepiness forsook me . 
I recognized the fact that I was hopelessly and permanently wide awake . 
Wide awake , and feverish and thirsty . 
I believed I could dress in the dark without waking Harris . 
I had banished my shoes after the mouse , but my slippers would do for a summer night . 
So I rose softly , and gradually got on everything down to one sock . 
I couldn't seem to get on the track of that sock , any way I could fix it . 
I enlarged my circle , and went on pawing and raking . 
In those cases I always stopped and held my breath till I was sure Harris had not awakened then I crept along again . 
I moved on and on , but I could not find the sock I could not seem to find anything but furniture . 
My temper rose , by steady and sure degrees , and as I pawed on and on , I fell to making vicious comments under my breath . 
It startled the breath out of me , for an instant it also showed me that I was lost , and had no sort of idea where I was . 
I shrunk together and listened a moment in silent fury no harm done , everything quiet . 
With the most painstaking care and nicety , I stood the umbrella up once more , took my hand away , and down it came again . 
I had one comfort , though Harris was yet still and silent he had not stirred . 
The umbrella could not locate me there were four standing around the room , and all alike . 
I thought I would feel along the wall and find the door in that way . 
I rose up and began this operation , but raked down a picture . 
It was not a large one , but it made noise enough for a panorama . 
Harris gave out no sound , but I felt that if I experimented any further with the pictures I should be sure to wake him . 
Better give up trying to get out . 
So I started on my hands and knees , because I could go faster that way , and with more confidence , too , and not knock down things . 
By and by I found the table with my head rubbed the bruise a little , then rose up and started , with hands abroad and fingers spread , to balance myself . 
I found a chair then a wall then another chair then a sofa then an alpenstock , then another sofa this confounded me , for I had thought there was only one sofa . 
I hunted up the table again and took a fresh start found some more chairs . 
Harris shouted murder , and thieves , and finished with I'm absolutely drowned . 
The crash had roused the house . 
I looked around I was at Harris's bed , a Sabbath day's journey from my own . 
I explained how I had been employing myself , and why . 
Then the landlord's party left , and the rest of us set about our preparations for breakfast , for the dawn was ready to break . 
I glanced furtively at my pedometer , and found I had made miles . 
But I did not care , for I had come out for a pedestrian tour anyway . 
I made a sketch of the turnout . 
It is not a Work , it is only what artists call a study a thing to make a finished picture from . 
This sketch has several blemishes in it for instance , the wagon is not traveling as fast as the horse is . 
Again , the person trying to get out of the way is too small he is out of perspective , as we say . 
The two upper lines are not the horse's back , they are the reigns there seems to be a wheel missing this would be corrected in a finished Work , of course . 
This thing flying out behind is not a flag , it is a curtain . 
That other thing up there is the sun , but I didn't get enough distance on it . 
I do not remember , now , what that thing is that is in front of the man who is running , but I think it is a haystack or a woman . 
This study was exhibited in the Paris Salon of , but did not take any medal they do not give medals for studies . 
Figure We discharged the carriage at the bridge . 
The river was full of logs long , slender , barkless pine logs and we leaned on the rails of the bridge , and watched the men put them together into rafts . 
These rafts were of a shape and construction to suit the crookedness and extreme narrowness of the Neckar . 
They were from fifty to one hundred yards long , and they gradually tapered from a nine log breadth at their sterns , to a three log breadth at their bow ends . 
In low water these neat narrow edged dikes project four or five inches above the surface , like the comb of a submerged roof , but in high water they are overflowed . 
A hatful of rain makes high water in the Neckar , and a basketful produces an overflow . 
There are dikes abreast the Schloss Hotel , and the current is violently swift at that point . 
One was smashed there one morning , but I had just stepped into my room a moment to light a pipe , so I lost it . 
Will you venture with me ? Their faces paled a little , but they assented with as good a grace as they could . 
I said we were on a pedestrian tour to Heidelberg , and would like to take passage with him . 
I said this partly through young Z , who spoke German very well , and partly through Mr. X , who spoke it peculiarly . 
I can UNDERSTAND German as well as the maniac that invented it , but I TALK it best through an interpreter . 
The captain hitched up his trousers , then shifted his quid thoughtfully . 
So I CHARTERED the raft and the crew and took all the responsibilities on myself . 
Our party were grouped amidships . 
And the birds ! they were everywhere they swept back and forth across the river constantly , and their jubilant music was never stilled . 
CHAPTER XV Down the River Charming Waterside Pictures Men and women and cattle were at work in the dewy fields by this time . 
Only the men did this the women were too busy . 
The women do all kinds of work on the continent . 
Age is no matter the older the woman the stronger she is , apparently . 
Every now and then we plunged in and had a swim . 
Once we turned a corner suddenly and surprised a slender girl of twelve years or upward , just stepping into the water . 
Thus she stood while we glided by . 
She was a pretty creature , and she and her willow bough made a very pretty picture , and one which could not offend the modesty of the most fastidious spectator . 
Toward noon we heard the inspiring cry Sail ho ! Where away ? shouted the captain . 
Three points off the weather bow ! We ran forward to see the vessel . 
It proved to be a steamboat for they had begun to run a steamer up the Neckar , for the first time in May . 
She was a tug , and one of a very peculiar build and aspect . 
I had often watched her from the hotel , and wondered how she propelled herself , for apparently she had no propeller or paddles . 
She came churning along , now , making a deal of noise of one kind or another , and aggravating it every now and then by blowing a hoarse whistle . 
She had nine keel boats hitched on behind and following after her in a long , slender rank . 
We met her in a narrow place , between dikes , and there was hardly room for us both in the cramped passage . 
As she went grinding and groaning by , we perceived the secret of her moving impulse . 
She did not drive herself up the river with paddles or propeller , she pulled herself by hauling on a great chain . 
This chain is laid in the bed of the river and is only fastened at the two ends . 
It is seventy miles long . 
It comes in over the boat's bow , passes around a drum , and is payed out astern . 
She pulls on that chain , and so drags herself up the river or down it . 
She has neither bow or stern , strictly speaking , for she has a long bladed rudder on each end and she never turns around . 
I would not have believed that that impossible thing could be done but I saw it done , and therefore I know that there is one impossible thing which CAN be done . 
What miracle will man attempt next ? We met many big keel boats on their way up , using sails , mule power , and profanity a tedious and laborious business . 
A second steamboat began work in the Neckar three months after the first one was put in service . 
In one place we saw a nicely dressed German gentleman without any spectacles . 
Before I could come to anchor he had got underway . 
It was a great pity . 
I so wanted to make a sketch of him . 
Below Hassmersheim we passed Hornberg , Go tz von Berlichingen's old castle . 
It stands on a bold elevation two hundred feet above the surface of the river it has high vine clad walls enclosing trees , and a peaked tower about seventy five feet high . 
The steep hillside , from the castle clear down to the water's edge , is terraced , and clothed thick with grape vines . 
This is like farming a mansard roof . 
All the steeps along that part of the river which furnish the proper exposure , are given up to the grape . 
That region is a great producer of Rhine wines . 
The Germans are exceedingly fond of Rhine wines they are put up in tall , slender bottles , and are considered a pleasant beverage . 
One tells them from vinegar by the label . 
The Hornberg hill is to be tunneled , and the new railway will pass under the castle . 
It was seven hundred years ago . 
She had a number of rich and noble lovers and one poor and obscure one , Sir Wendel Lobenfeld . 
With the native chuckleheadedness of the heroine of romance , she preferred the poor and obscure lover . 
The latter visited her and persecuted her with their supplications , but without effect , for her heart was true to her poor despised Crusader , who was fighting in the Holy Land . 
Her father ransacked the country for her , but found not a trace of her . 
As time went on , the people of the region became sorely distressed about the Specter of the Haunted Cave . 
It was said that ill luck of one kind or another always overtook any one who had the misfortune to hear that song . 
Eventually , every calamity that happened thereabouts was laid at the door of that music . 
Consequently , no boatmen would consent to pass the cave at night the peasants shunned the place , even in the daytime . 
But the faithful girl sang on , night after night , month after month , and patiently waited her reward must come at last . 
And now came the Crusader home , bronzed and battle scarred , but bringing a great and splendid fame to lay at the feet of his bride . 
He could not enjoy his well earned rest . 
He said he would do it . 
Toward midnight the Crusader came floating down the river in a boat , with his trusty cross bow in his hands . 
He drifted silently through the dim reflections of the crags and trees , with his intent eyes fixed upon the low cliff which he was approaching . 
As he drew nearer , he discerned the black mouth of the cave . 
Now is that a white figure ? Yes . 
It is believed that the singing still continues , but it is known that nobody has heard it during the present century . 
CHAPTER XVI An Ancient Legend of the Rhine The Lorelei The last legend reminds one of the Lorelei a legend of the Rhine . 
There is a song called The Lorelei . 
Germany is rich in folk songs , and the words and airs of several of them are peculiarly beautiful but The Lorelei is the people's favorite . 
I could not endure it at first , but by and by it began to take hold of me , and now there is no tune which I like so well . 
It is not possible that it is much known in America , else I should have heard it there . 
And I will refresh the reader's memory by printing the legend of the Lorelei , too . 
I have it by me in the LEGENDS OF THE RHINE , done into English by the wildly gifted Garnham , Bachelor of Arts . 
I print the legend partly to refresh my own memory , too , for I have never read it before . 
in the Rhine , and lure boatmen to destruction in a furious rapid which marred the channel at that spot . 
In those old , old times , the Count Bruno lived in a great castle near there with his son , the Count Hermann , a youth of twenty . 
Hermann had heard a great deal about the beautiful Lore , and had finally fallen very deeply in love with her without having seen her . 
So he used to wander to the neighborhood of the Lei , evenings , with his Zither and Express his Longing in low Singing , as Garnham says . 
Beside himself with delight the youth lost his Senses and sank senseless to the earth . 
After that he was a changed person . 
He went dreaming about , thinking only of his fairy and caring for naught else in the world . 
The old count saw with affliction this changement in his son , whose cause he could not divine , and tried to divert his mind into cheerful channels , but to no purpose . 
Then the old count used authority . 
He commanded the youth to betake himself to the camp . 
He went , in his boat , this time accompanied by a faithful squire , down the stream . 
Thy Garment color wave dove By thy hand the sign of love , Thy eyes sweet enchantment , Raying to me , oh ! enchantment . 
O , wert thou but my sweetheart , How willingly thy love to part ! With delight I should be bound To thy rocky house in deep ground . 
That Hermann should have gone to that place at all , was not wise that he should have gone with such a song as that in his mouth was a most serious mistake . 
The Lorelei did not call his name in unutterable sweet Whispers this time . 
They began to mount heavenward the boat was upset , mocking every exertion the waves rose to the gunwale , and splitting on the hard stones , the Boat broke into Pieces . 
The youth sank into the depths , but the squire was thrown on shore by a powerful wave . 
The bitterest things have been said about the Lorelei during many centuries , but surely her conduct upon this occasion entitles her to our respect . 
One feels drawn tenderly toward her and is moved to forget her many crimes and remember only the good deed that crowned and closed her career . 
The Fairy was never more seen but her enchanting tones have often been heard . 
Here is the music , and the German words by Heinrich Heine . 
This song has been a favorite in Germany for forty years , and will remain a favorite always , maybe . 
Figure I have a prejudice against people who print things in a foreign language and add no translation . 
If I were at home , no doubt I could get a translation of this poem , but I am abroad and can't therefore I will make a translation myself . 
Still , Garnham's translation has high merits , and I am not dreaming of leaving it out of my book . 
That I am so sorrowful ? A fable of old Times so terrifies , Leaves my heart so thoughtful . 
The air is cool and it darkens , And calmly flows the Rhine The summit of the mountain hearkens In evening sunshine line . 
The most beautiful Maiden entrances Above wonderfully there , Her beautiful golden attire glances , She combs her golden hair . 
With golden comb so lustrous , And thereby a song sings , It has a tone so wondrous , That powerful melody rings . 
The shipper in the little ship It effects with woe sad might He does not see the rocky slip , He only regards dreaded height . 
I believe the turbulent waves Swallow the last shipper and boat She with her singing craves All to visit her magic moat . 
No translation could be closer . 
He has got in all the facts and in their regular order , too . 
There is not a statistic wanting . 
It is as succinct as an invoice . 
That is what a translation ought to be it should exactly reflect the thought of the original . 
Mr. Garnham's reproduction has other merits a hundred of them but it is not necessary to point them out . 
No one with a specialty can hope to have a monopoly of it . 
Even Garnham has a rival . 
Mr. X had a small pamphlet with him which he had bought while on a visit to Munich . 
It was entitled A CATALOGUE OF PICTURES IN THE OLD PINACOTEK , and was written in a peculiar kind of English . 
Here are a few extracts It is not permitted to make use of the work in question to a publication of the same contents as well as to the pirated edition of it . 
In the foreground near a pond and a group of white beeches is leading a footpath animated by travelers . 
A learned man in a cynical and torn dress holding an open book in his hand . 
Bartholomew and the Executioner with the knife to fulfil the martyr . 
Portrait of a young man . 
A long while this picture was thought to be Bindi Altoviti's portrait now somebody will again have it to be the self portrait of Raphael . 
Susan bathing , surprised by the two old man . 
In the background the lapidation of the condemned . 
Rochus sitting in a landscape with an angel who looks at his plague sore , whilst the dog the bread in his mouth attents him . 
The Goddess Flora , sitting . 
Behind her a fertile valley perfused by a river . 
A beautiful bouquet animated by May bugs , etc . 
A warrior in armor with a gypseous pipe in his hand leans against a table and blows the smoke far away of himself . 
A Dutch landscape along a navigable river which perfuses it till to the background . 
Some peasants singing in a cottage . 
A woman lets drink a child out of a cup . 
John's head as a boy painted in fresco on a brick . 
A young man of the Riccio family , his hair cut off right at the end , dressed in black with the same cap . 
Attributed to Raphael , but the signation is false . 
The Virgin holding the Infant . 
It is very painted in the manner of Sassoferrato . 
A Larder with greens and dead game animated by a cook maid and two kitchen boys . 
However , the English of this catalogue is at least as happy as that which distinguishes an inscription upon a certain picture in Rome to wit Revelations View . 
But meanwhile the raft is moving on . 
CHAPTER XVII Why Germans Wear Spectacles A mile or two above Eberbach we saw a peculiar ruin projecting above the foliage which clothed the peak of a high and very steep hill . 
This ruin had nothing very imposing or picturesque about it , and there was no great deal of it , yet it was called the Spectacular Ruin . 
He was as long as a railway train , and had the customary impenetrable green scales all over him . 
His breath bred pestilence and conflagration , and his appetite bred famine . 
He ate men and cattle impartially , and was exceedingly unpopular . 
So the most renowned knights came from the four corners of the earth and retired down the dragon's throat one after the other . 
A panic arose and spread . 
The dragon became more destructive than ever . 
The people lost all hope of succor , and fled to the mountains for refuge . 
At last Sir Wissenschaft , a poor and obscure knight , out of a far country , arrived to do battle with the monster . 
A pitiable object he was , with his armor hanging in rags about him , and his strange shaped knapsack strapped upon his back . 
Everybody turned up their noses at him , and some openly jeered him . 
He simply inquired if the emperor's offer was still in force . 
But this tramp only asked Were any of these heroes men of science ? This raised a laugh , of course , for science was despised in those days . 
But the tramp was not in the least ruffled . 
He said he might be a little in advance of his age , but no matter science would come to be honored , some time or other . 
He said he would march against the dragon in the morning . 
Out of compassion , then , a decent spear was offered him , but he declined , and said , spears were useless to men of science . 
They allowed him to sup in the servants' hall , and gave him a bed in the stables . 
When he started forth in the morning , thousands were gathered to see . 
The emperor said Do not be rash , take a spear , and leave off your knapsack . 
But the tramp said It is not a knapsack , and moved straight on . 
The dragon was waiting and ready . 
He was breathing forth vast volumes of sulphurous smoke and lurid blasts of flame . 
Out went the fires in an instant , and the dragon curled up and died . 
This man had brought brains to his aid . 
He had reared dragons from the egg , in his laboratory , he had watched over them like a mother , and patiently studied them and experimented upon them while they grew . 
Thus he had found out that fire was the life principle of a dragon put out the dragon's fires and it could make steam no longer , and must die . 
He could not put out a fire with a spear , therefore he invented the extinguisher . 
But the tramp gave them no observance . 
He simply said My request is , that upon me be conferred the monopoly of the manufacture and sale of spectacles in Germany . 
To everybody's surprise , the unselfish monopolist immediately reduced the price of spectacles to such a degree that a great and crushing burden was removed from the nation . 
Such is the legend of the monopolist's once stately and sumptuous castle , now called the Spectacular Ruin . 
On the right bank , two or three miles below the Spectacular Ruin , we passed by a noble pile of castellated buildings overlooking the water from the crest of a lofty elevation . 
A stretch of two hundred yards of the high front wall was heavily draped with ivy , and out of the mass of buildings within rose three picturesque old towers . 
The place was in fine order , and was inhabited by a family of princely rank . 
This castle had its legend , too , but I should not feel justified in repeating it because I doubted the truth of some of its minor details . 
Along in this region a multitude of Italian laborers were blasting away the frontage of the hills to make room for the new railway . 
They were fifty or a hundred feet above the river . 
As we turned a sharp corner they began to wave signals and shout warnings to us to look out for the explosions . 
Your resources are limited , you see . 
There is simply nothing for it but to watch and pray . 
For some hours we had been making three and a half or four miles an hour and we were still making that . 
We had been dancing right along until those men began to shout then for the next ten minutes it seemed to me that I had never seen a raft go so slowly . 
When the first blast went off we raised our sun umbrellas and waited for the result . 
No harm done none of the stones fell in the water . 
Another blast followed , and another and another . 
Some of the rubbish fell in the water just astern of us . 
We ran that whole battery of nine blasts in a row , and it was certainly one of the most exciting and uncomfortable weeks I ever spent , either aship or ashore . 
It was very busy times along there for a while . 
There would be no poetry written about it . 
None COULD be written about it . 
Example NOT by war's shock , or war's shaft , SHOT , with a rock , on a raft . 
No poet who valued his reputation would touch such a theme as that . 
I should be distinguished as the only distinguished dead who went down to the grave unsonneted , in . 
But we escaped , and I have never regretted it . 
It did no other harm , but we took to the water just the same . 
It seems that the heavy work in the quarries and the new railway gradings is done mainly by Italians . 
We have the notion in our country that Italians never do heavy work at all , but confine themselves to the lighter arts , like organ grinding , operatic singing , and assassination . 
We have blundered , that is plain . 
All along the river , near every village , we saw little station houses for the future railway . 
They were finished and waiting for the rails and business . 
They were as trim and snug and pretty as they could be . 
They were a decoration to the beautiful landscape , not an offense . 
As the night shut down , the captain wanted to tie up , but I thought maybe we might make Hirschhorn , so we went on . 
Presently the sky became overcast , and the captain came aft looking uneasy . 
He cast his eye aloft , then shook his head , and said it was coming on to blow . 
My party wanted to land at once therefore I wanted to go on . 
The captain said we ought to shorten sail anyway , out of common prudence . 
Consequently , the larboard watch was ordered to lay in his pole . 
It grew quite dark , now , and the wind began to rise . 
It wailed through the swaying branches of the trees , and swept our decks in fitful gusts . 
Things were taking on an ugly look . 
Let her go off a point ! Aye aye , sir ! What water have you got ? Shoal , sir . 
By this time the sea was running inches high , and threatening every moment to engulf the frail bark . 
Gentlemen , I must look to you to second my endeavors in this hour of peril . 
You have hats go forward and bail for your lives ! Down swept another mighty blast of wind , clothed in spray and thick darkness . 
How familiar that sounded ! For I have been at sea a good deal and have heard that remark from captains with a frequency accordingly . 
I can never forget that night . 
The landlord was rich , and therefore could afford to be crusty and disobliging he did not at all like being turned out of his warm bed to open his house for us . 
But no matter , his household got up and cooked a quick supper for us , and we brewed a hot punch for ourselves , to keep off consumption . 
Such rooms and beds and embroidered linen are as frequent in German village inns as they are rare in ours . 
Our villages are superior to German villages in more merits , excellences , conveniences , and privileges than I can enumerate , but the hotels do not belong in the list . 
The moment we were abed , the rain cleared away and the moon came out . 
But young Z did not get off so easily . 
He tried turning his back , but that was a failure he knew the sinister eyes were on him still . 
So at last he had to get up , after an hour or two of worry and experiment , and set the cat out in the hall . 
So he won , that time . 
CHAPTER XVIII The Kindly Courtesy of Germans In the morning we took breakfast in the garden , under the trees , in the delightful German summer fashion . 
The air was filled with the fragrance of flowers and wild animals the living portion of the menagerie of the Naturalist Tavern was all about us . 
There were great cages populous with fluttering and chattering foreign birds , and other great cages and greater wire pens , populous with quadrupeds , both native and foreign . 
There were some free creatures , too , and quite sociable ones they were . 
If he was observed too much , he would retire behind something and stay there until he judged the party's interest had found another object . 
I never have seen another dumb creature that was so morbidly sensitive . 
After breakfast we climbed the hill and visited the ancient castle of Hirschhorn , and the ruined church near it . 
These things are suffering damage and passing to decay , for the last Hirschhorn has been dead two hundred years , and there is nobody now who cares to preserve the family relics . 
All the rest of the legend was doubtful . 
But Hirschhorn is best seen from a distance , down the river . 
We descended from the church by steep stone stairways which curved this way and that down narrow alleys between the packed and dirty tenements of the village . 
It was a quarter well stocked with deformed , leering , unkempt and uncombed idiots , who held out hands or caps and begged piteously . 
The people of the quarter were not all idiots , of course , but all that begged seemed to be , and were said to be . 
I suppose I must have spoken High German Court German I intended it for that , anyway so he did not understand me . 
I turned and twisted my question around and about , trying to strike that man's average , but failed . 
He could not make out what I wanted . 
I will insert it , presently . 
X turned away a moment , and I asked the mariner if he could not find a board , and so construct an additional seat . 
I spoke in the purest German , but I might as well have spoken in the purest Choctaw for all the good it did . 
Then X turned to him and crisply said MACHEN SIE a flat board . 
We changed our mind about taking a boat , so we did not have to go . 
I have given Mr. X's two remarks just as he made them . 
Yet he always made himself understood . 
He could make those dialect speaking raftsmen understand him , sometimes , when even young Z had failed with them and young Z was a pretty good German scholar . 
For one thing , X always spoke with such confidence perhaps that helped . 
And possibly the raftsmen's dialect was what is called PLATT DEUTSCH , and so they found his English more familiar to their ears than another man's German . 
Quite indifferent students of German can read Fritz Reuter's charming platt Deutch tales with some little facility because many of the words are English . 
I suppose this is the tongue which our Saxon ancestors carried to England with them . 
By and by I will inquire of some other philologist . 
Therefore we went aboard again with a good degree of confidence , and presently got to sea without accident . 
As we swam smoothly along between the enchanting shores , we fell to swapping notes about manners and customs in Germany and elsewhere . 
But this is not surprising it is very difficult to get accurate details in any country . 
For example , I had the idea once , in Heidelberg , to find out all about those five student corps . 
I started with the White Cap corps . 
I began to inquire of this and that and the other citizen , and here is what I found out . 
It is called the Prussian Corps , because none but Prussians are admitted to it . 
It is called the Prussian Corps for no particular reason . 
It has simply pleased each corps to name itself after some German state . 
It is not named the Prussian Corps at all , but only the White Cap Corps . 
Any student can belong to it who is a German by birth . 
Any student can belong to it who is European by birth . 
Any European born student can belong to it , except he be a Frenchman . 
Any student can belong to it , no matter where he was born . 
No student can belong to it who is not of noble blood . 
No student can belong to it who cannot show three full generations of noble descent . 
Nobility is not a necessary qualification . 
No moneyless student can belong to it . 
Money qualification is nonsense such a thing has never been thought of . 
I got some of this information from students themselves students who did not belong to the corps . 
I finally went to headquarters to the White Caps where I would have gone in the first place if I had been acquainted . 
But even at headquarters I found difficulties I perceived that there were things about the White Cap Corps which one member knew and another one didn't . 
It was natural for very few members of any organization know ALL that can be known about it . 
There is one German custom which is universal the bowing courteously to strangers when sitting down at table or rising up from it . 
Therefore he is afraid to venture . 
He sits out the dinner , and makes the strangers rise first and originate the bowing . 
It took me months to assure myself that those fears were groundless , but I did assure myself at last by experimenting diligently through my agent . 
I made Harris get up and bow and leave invariably his bow was returned , then I got up and bowed myself and retired . 
Thus my education proceeded easily and comfortably for me , but not for Harris . 
Three courses of a table d'ho te dinner were enough for me , but Harris preferred thirteen . 
Even after I had acquired full confidence , and no longer needed the agent's help , I sometimes encountered difficulties . 
There is a friendly something about the German character which is very winning . 
They were pedestrians , too . 
Our knapsacks were strapped upon our backs , but they had a sturdy youth along to carry theirs for them . 
All parties were hungry , so there was no talking . 
By and by the usual bows were exchanged , and we separated . 
Then they spoke of the weather and the roads . 
We also spoke of the weather and the roads . 
Next , they said they had had an enjoyable walk , notwithstanding the weather . 
We said that that had been our case , too . 
Then they said they had walked thirty English miles the day before , and asked how many we had walked . 
I could not lie , so I told Harris to do it . 
Harris told them we had made thirty English miles , too . 
That was true we had made them , though we had had a little assistance here and there . 
And when we started they spoke out a hearty good by and wished us a pleasant journey . 
The official was ever so polite , and every so sorry , but the rule was strict , and he could not let us in . 
It was very embarrassing , for many eyes were on us . 
But now a richly dressed girl stepped out of the ballroom , inquired into the trouble , and said she could fix it in a moment . 
She took Miss Jones to the robing room , and soon brought her back in regulation trim , and then we entered the ballroom with this benefactress unchallenged . 
Being safe , now , I began to puzzle through my sincere but ungrammatical thanks , when there was a sudden mutual recognition the benefactress and I had met at Allerheiligen . 
I had on MY other suit , too , but my German would betray me to a person who had heard it once , anyway . 
She brought her brother and sister , and they made our way smooth for that evening . 
That is probably one of the ladies of the court , said my German friend . 
I said She is an honor to it , then . 
I don't know her name , but I know HER . 
I have known her at Allerheiligen and Baden Baden . 
She ought to be an Empress , but she may be only a Duchess it is the way things go in this way . 
If one asks a German a civil question , he will be quite sure to get a civil answer . 
If you stop a German in the street and ask him to direct you to a certain place , he shows no sign of feeling offended . 
If the place be difficult to find , ten to one the man will drop his own matters and go with you and show you . 
In London , too , many a time , strangers have walked several blocks with me to show me my way . 
There is something very real about this sort of politeness . 
CHAPTER XIX The Deadly Jest of Dilsberg However , I wander from the raft . 
I do not mean that we proposed to be two hours making two miles no , we meant to employ most of the time in inspecting Dilsberg . 
For Dilsberg is a quaint place . 
It is most quaintly and picturesquely situated , too . 
It is really a finished town , and has been finished a very long time . 
That lofty green eminence and its quaint coronet form quite a striking picture , you may be sure , in the flush of the evening sun . 
We crossed over in a boat and began the ascent by a narrow , steep path which plunged us at once into the leafy deeps of the bushes . 
But they were not cool deeps by any means , for the sun's rays were weltering hot and there was little or no breeze to temper them . 
They were bound for the other side of the river to work . 
This path had been traveled by many generations of these people . 
They have always gone down to the valley to earn their bread , but they have always climbed their hill again to eat it , and to sleep in their snug town . 
It has been said that for ages Dilsberg has been merely a thriving and diligent idiot factory . 
The captain probably imagined all this , as modern science denies that the intermarrying of relatives deteriorates the stock . 
Arrived within the wall , we found the usual village sights and life . 
We moved along a narrow , crooked lane which had been paved in the Middle Ages . 
It proved to be an extensive pile of crumbling walls , arches , and towers , massive , properly grouped for picturesque effect , weedy , grass grown , and satisfactory . 
But the principal show , the chief pride of the children , was the ancient and empty well in the grass grown court of the castle . 
Its massive stone curb stands up three or four feet above ground , and is whole and uninjured . 
The children said that in the Middle Ages this well was four hundred feet deep , and furnished all the village with an abundant supply of water , in war and peace . 
They said that in the old day its bottom was below the level of the Neckar , hence the water supply was inexhaustible . 
The children said that there was in truth a subterranean outlet down there , and they would prove it . 
So they set a great truss of straw on fire and threw it down the well , while we leaned on the curb and watched the glowing mass descend . 
It struck bottom and gradually burned out . 
But the finest thing within the ruin's limits was a noble linden , which the children said was four hundred years old , and no doubt it was . 
It had a mighty trunk and a mighty spread of limb and foliage . 
The limbs near the ground were nearly the thickness of a barrel . 
Well , we sat down under the tree to smoke , and the captain delivered himself of his legend THE LEGEND OF DILSBERG CASTLE It was to this effect . 
In the old times there was once a great company assembled at the castle , and festivity ran high . 
Of course there was a haunted chamber in the castle , and one day the talk fell upon that . 
It was said that whoever slept in it would not wake again for fifty years . 
Straightway , the company privately laid their heads together to contrive some way to get this superstitious young man to sleep in that chamber . 
And they succeeded in this way . 
They persuaded his betrothed , a lovely mischievous young creature , niece of the lord of the castle , to help them in their plot . 
She presently took him aside and had speech with him . 
This was a better argument Conrad could not out against it . 
He yielded and said she should have her wish if she would only smile and be happy again . 
She flung her arms about his neck , and the kisses she gave him showed that her thankfulness and her pleasure were very real . 
At midnight , that night , after the usual feasting , Conrad was taken to the haunted chamber and left there . 
He fell asleep , by and by . 
When he awoke again and looked about him , his heart stood still with horror ! The whole aspect of the chamber was changed . 
The walls were moldy and hung with ancient cobwebs the curtains and beddings were rotten the furniture was rickety and ready to fall to pieces . 
He sprang out of bed , but his quaking knees sunk under him and he fell to the floor . 
This is the weakness of age , he said . 
He rose and sought his clothing . 
It was clothing no longer . 
The colors were gone , the garments gave way in many places while he was putting them on . 
He fled , shuddering , into the corridor , and along it to the great hall . 
Here he was met by a middle aged stranger of a kind countenance , who stopped and gazed at him with surprise . 
Conrad said Good sir , will you send hither the lord Ulrich ? The stranger looked puzzled a moment , then said The lord Ulrich ? Yes if you will be so good . 
Conrad said , hesitatingly I did not mean a guest , but the lord of the castle , sir . 
The stranger and the servant exchanged wondering glances . 
Then the former said I am the lord of the castle . 
Since when , sir ? Since the death of my father , the good lord Ulrich more than forty years ago . 
Conrad sank upon a bench and covered his face with his hands while he rocked his body to and fro and moaned . 
The stranger said in a low voice to the servant I fear me this poor old creature is mad . 
In a moment several people came , and grouped themselves about , talking in whispers . 
Conrad looked up and scanned the faces about him wistfully . 
Then he shook his head and said , in a grieved voice No , there is none among ye that I know . 
I am old and alone in the world . 
They are dead and gone these many years that cared for me . 
But sure , some of these aged ones I see about me can tell me some little word or two concerning them . 
Several bent and tottering men and women came nearer and answered his questions about each former friend as he mentioned the names . 
This one they said had been dead ten years , that one twenty , another thirty . 
Each succeeding blow struck heavier and heavier . 
A misfortune overtook her lover , and she died of sorrow nearly fifty years ago . 
She lieth under the linden tree without the court . 
Conrad bowed his head and said Ah , why did I ever wake ! And so she died of grief for me , poor child . 
So young , so sweet , so good ! She never wittingly did a hurtful thing in all the little summer of her life . 
Her loving debt shall be repaid for I will die of grief for her . 
His head drooped upon his breast . 
Catharina's happy tongue ran on 'Twas a marvelous jest , and bravely carried out . 
Ah , 'twas a gallant jest ! Come , now , and make thee ready for the pleasures of the day . 
All the smile vanished away , every cheek blanched , Catharina sunk to the ground in a swoon . 
All day the people went about the castle with troubled faces , and communed together in undertones . 
A painful hush pervaded the place which had lately been so full of cheery life . 
During two years Conrad spent his days , from the early morning till the night , under the linden tree , mourning over the imaginary grave of his Catharina . 
Catharina was the only company of the harmless madman . 
He was very friendly toward her because , as he said , in some ways she reminded him of his Catharina whom he had lost fifty years ago . 
He often said She was so gay , so happy hearted but you never smile and always when you think I am not looking , you cry . 
When Conrad died , they buried him under the linden , according to his directions , so that he might rest near his poor Catharina . 
assisting the rugged scenery of a bend of the river down to our right . 
We got to sea in season to make the eight mile run to Heidelberg before the night shut down . 
We sailed by the hotel in the mellow glow of sunset , and came slashing down with the mad current into the narrow passage between the dikes . 
I believed I could shoot the bridge myself , and I went to the forward triplet of logs and relieved the pilot of his pole and his responsibility . 
The seeker after information is referred to Appendix E for our captain's legend of the Swallow's Nest and The Brothers . 
The next moment I had my long coveted desire I saw a raft wrecked . 
It hit the pier in the center and went all to smash and scatteration like a box of matches struck by lightning . 
But I helped to fish them out of the river , down below the bridge , and then described it to them as well as I could . 
They were not interested , though . 
They said they were wet and felt ridiculous and did not care anything for descriptions of scenery . 
CHAPTER XX My Precious , Priceless Tear Jug Next morning brought good news our trunks had arrived from Hamburg at last . 
Let this be a warning to the reader . 
The Germans are very conscientious , and this trait makes them very particular . 
The hair on my trunk was soft and thick and youthful , when I got it ready for shipment in Hamburg it was baldheaded when it reached Heidelberg . 
There was nothing now in the way of our departure , therefore we set about our preparations . 
Naturally my chief solicitude was about my collection of Ceramics . 
Of course I could not take it with me , that would be inconvenient , and dangerous besides . 
So I divided the collection , and followed the advice of both parties . 
I set aside , for the Museum , those articles which were the most frail and precious . 
Among these was my Etruscan tear jug . 
I have made a little sketch of it here Figure that thing creeping up the side is not a bug , it is a hole . 
I bought this tear jug of a dealer in antiquities for four hundred and fifty dollars . 
The man said the Etruscans used to keep tears or something in these things , and that it was very hard to get hold of a broken one , now . 
I also set aside my Henri II . 
See sketch from my pencil Figure it is in the main correct , though I think I have foreshortened one end of it a little too much , perhaps . 
This is very fine and rare the shape is exceedingly beautiful and unusual . 
It has wonderful decorations on it , but I am not able to reproduce them . 
It cost more than the tear jug , as the dealer said there was not another plate just like it in the world . 
He said there was much false Henri II ware around , but that the genuineness of this piece was unquestionable . 
He said that the whole Ceramic world would be informed that it was now in my possession and would make a note of it , with the price paid . 
Figure There were Masters in those days , but , alas it is not so now . 
Of course the main preciousness of this piece lies in its color it is that old sensuous , pervading , ramifying , interpolating , transboreal blue which is the despair of modern art . 
The little sketch which I have made of this gem cannot and does not do it justice , since I have been obliged to leave out the color . 
But I've got the expression , though . 
However , I must not be frittering away the reader's time with these details . 
He has no more sense of the flight of time than has any other lover when talking of his sweetheart . 
For my part I am content to be a brick a bracker and a ceramiker more , I am proud to be so named . 
Very well I packed and stored a part of my collection , and the rest of it I placed in the care of the Grand Ducal Museum i n Mannheim , by permission . 
My Old Blue China Cat remains there yet . 
I presented it to that excellent institution . 
I had but one misfortune with my things . 
An egg which I had kept back from breakfast that morning , was broken in packing . 
It was a great pity . 
I had shown it to the best connoisseurs in Heidelberg , and they all said it was an antique . 
We spent a day or two in farewell visits , and then left for Baden Baden . 
We had a pleasant trip to it , for the Rhine valley is always lovely . 
The only trouble was that the trip was too short . 
If I remember rightly it only occupied a couple of hours , therefore I judge that the distance was very little , if any , over fifty miles . 
We came into town on foot . 
One of the first persons we encountered , as we walked up the street , was the Rev . 
We knew he had been in Europe some time , but were not at all expecting to run across him . 
Both parties burst forth into loving enthusiasms , and Rev . 
We agreed to that , of course . 
I thought I had also noticed that his head had a sort of listening tilt to it . 
Now about this time the Rev . 
Say , didn't I put you up right ? Oh , yes . 
Sho ! I spotted you for MY kind the minute I heard your clack . 
You been over here long ? About four months . 
Are you ? Oh , HELL , yes ! This with immense enthusiasm . 
Yes indeedy ! If I ain't an American there AIN'T any Americans , that's all . 
I'm from western New York . 
My name is Cholley Adams . 
I'm a student , you know . 
Been here going on two years . 
First off , I thought it would certainly give me the botts , but I don't mind now . 
I've got it where the hair's short , I think and dontchuknow , they made me learn Latin , too . 
'Twon't take me long , and I don't mind the time , anyway . 
I've been here long ENOUGH , and I'm getting blessed tired of it , mind I TELL you . 
I buckled in and read all those books , because he wanted me to but that kind of thing don't excite ME , I like something HEARTY . 
The Reverend said it had transpired during the interview that Cholley Adams's father was an extensive dealer in horses in western New York this accounted for Cholley's choice of a profession . 
CHAPTER XXI Insolent Shopkeepers and Gabbling Americans Baden Baden sits in the lap of the hills , and the natural and artificial beauties of the surroundings are combined effectively and charmingly . 
It seems like a rather aimless and stupid existence . 
A good many of these people are there for a real purpose , however they are racked with rheumatism , and they are there to stew it out in the hot baths . 
These invalids looked melancholy enough , limping about on their canes and crutches , and apparently brooding over all sorts of cheerless things . 
People say that Germany , with her damp stone houses , is the home of rheumatism . 
If that is so , Providence must have foreseen that it would be so , and therefore filled the land with the healing baths . 
Perhaps no other country is so generously supplied with medicinal springs as Germany . 
Some of these baths are good for one ailment , some for another and again , peculiar ailments are conquered by combining the individual virtues of several different baths . 
For instance , for some forms of disease , the patient drinks the native hot water of Baden Baden , with a spoonful of salt from the Carlsbad springs dissolved in it . 
That is not a dose to be forgotten right away . 
You ignore her reply , and ask again How much ? and she calmly , indifferently , repeats NACH BELIEBE . 
How much ? NACH BELIEBE . 
How much ? NACH BELIEBE . 
How much ? NACH BELIEBE . 
How much ? NACH BELIEBE . 
How much ? NACH BELIEBE . 
Without deigning to look at me at all , she languidly lifted the coin and bit it ! to see if it was good . 
Then she turned her back and placidly waddled to her former roost again , tossing the money into an open till as she went along . 
She was victor to the last , you see . 
I have enlarged upon the ways of this girl because they are typical her manners are the manners of a goodly number of the Baden Baden shopkeepers . 
The shopkeeper there swindles you if he can , and insults you whether he succeeds in swindling you or not . 
The keepers of baths also take great and patient pains to insult you . 
Baden Baden's splendid gamblers are gone , only her microscopic knaves remain . 
An English gentleman who had been living there several years , said If you could disguise your nationality , you would not find any insolence here . 
These shopkeepers detest the English and despise the Americans they are rude to both , more especially to ladies of your nationality and mine . 
I know of an instance where a shopkeeper tossed a coin back to an American lady with the remark , snappishly uttered , 'We don't take French money here . 
And as to rank , they worship that , for they have long been used to generals and nobles . 
If you wish to see what abysses servility can descend , present yourself before a Baden Baden shopkeeper in the character of a Russian prince . 
It is an inane town , filled with sham , and petty fraud , and snobbery , but the baths are good . 
I spoke with many people , and they were all agreed in that . 
I had the twinges of rheumatism unceasingly during three years , but the last one departed after a fortnight's bathing there , and I have never had one since . 
I fully believe I left my rheumatism in Baden Baden . 
Baden Baden is welcome to it . 
It was little , but it was all I had to give . 
I would have preferred to leave something that was catching , but it was not in my power . 
There are several hot springs there , and during two thousand years they have poured forth a never diminishing abundance of the healing water . 
This water is conducted in pipe to the numerous bath houses , and is reduced to an endurable temperature by the addition of cold water . 
Sunk into the floor , by the tub , is a covered copper box which contains some warm towels and a sheet . 
You look fully as white as an angel when you are stretched out in that limpid bath . 
You remain in it ten minutes , the first time , and afterward increase the duration from day to day , till you reach twenty five or thirty minutes . 
But this is common in German hotels the people generally go to bed long after eleven and get up long before eight . 
They will sing , laugh , and talk loudly , and bang furniture around in a most pitiless way . 
They keep cruelly late and early hours , for such noisy folk . 
Of course , when one begins to find fault with foreign people's ways , he is very likely to get a reminder to look nearer home , before he gets far with it . 
I open my note book to see if I can find some more information of a valuable nature about Baden Baden , and the first thing I fall upon is this BADEN BADEN . 
Lot of vociferous Americans at breakfast this morning . 
Talking AT everybody , while pretending to talk among themselves . 
On their first travels , manifestly . 
The usual signs airy , easy going references to grand distances and foreign places . 
'Well GOOD by , old fellow if I don't run across you in Italy , you hunt me up in London before you sail . 
The common people think the Indians are in New Jersey . 
This is a new and peculiar argument against keeping our army down to a ridiculous figure in the matter of numbers . 
It is rather a striking one , too . 
I have not distorted the truth in saying that the facts in the above item , about the army and the Indians , are made use of to discourage emigration to America . 
There is an interesting old cemetery in Baden Baden , and we spent several pleasant hours in wandering through it and spelling out the inscriptions on the aged tombstones . 
I judge so from the fact that hundreds of old gravestones have been removed from the graves and placed against the inner walls of the cemetery . 
It is not always easy to tell which of the figures belong among the blest and which of them among the opposite party . 
It was to this effect Here Reposes in God , Caroline de Clery , a Religieuse of St . 
Denis aged years and blind . 
The woods and roads were similar to those at Heidelberg , but not so bewitching . 
I suppose that roads and woods which are up to the Heidelberg mark are rare in the world . 
Once we wandered clear away to La Favorita Palace , which is several miles from Baden Baden . 
The grounds about the palace were fine the palace was a curiosity . 
It was built by a Margravine in , and remains as she left it at her death . 
We wandered through a great many of its rooms , and they all had striking peculiarities of decoration . 
For instance , the walls of one room were pretty completely covered with small pictures of the Margravine in all conceivable varieties of fanciful costumes , some of them male . 
The walls of another room were covered with grotesquely and elaborately figured hand wrought tapestry . 
There was enough crazy and rotten rubbish in the building to make a true brick a bracker green with envy . 
A painting in the dining hall verged upon the indelicate but then the Margravine was herself a trifle indelicate . 
It is in every way a wildly and picturesquely decorated house , and brimful of interest as a reflection of the character and tastes of that rude bygone time . 
In the grounds , a few rods from the palace , stands the Margravine's chapel , just as she left it a coarse wooden structure , wholly barren of ornament . 
She was a devoted Catholic , and was perhaps quite a model sort of a Christian as Christians went then , in high life . 
She shut herself up there , without company , and without even a servant , and so abjured and forsook the world . 
She prayed and told her beads , in another little room , before a waxen Virgin niched in a little box against the wall she bedded herself like a slave . 
The margravine used to bring her meals to this table and DINE WITH THE HOLY FAMILY . 
It makes one feel crawly even to think of it . 
The Savior was represented as a lad of about fifteen years of age . 
This figure had lost one eye . 
In this sordid place , and clothed , bedded , and fed like a pauper , this strange princess lived and worshiped during two years , and in it she died . 
The den could be moved into some portions of France and made a good property even now . 
CHAPTER XXII The Black Forest and Its Treasures From Baden Baden we made the customary trip into the Black Forest . 
We were on foot most of the time . 
One cannot describe those noble woods , nor the feeling with which they inspire him . 
Those woods stretch unbroken over a vast region and everywhere they are such dense woods , and so still , and so piney and fragrant . 
The suggestion of mystery and the supernatural which haunts the forest at all times is intensified by this unearthly glow . 
We found the Black Forest farmhouses and villages all that the Black Forest stories have pictured them . 
The first genuine specimen which we came upon was the mansion of a rich farmer and member of the Common Council of the parish or district . 
He was an important personage in the land and so was his wife also , of course . 
His daughter was the catch of the region , and she may be already entering into immortality as the heroine of one of Auerbach's novels , for all I know . 
The mossless spots were places where repairs had been made by the insertion of bright new masses of yellow straw . 
The eaves projected far down , like sheltering , hospitable wings . 
Above were two or three other little windows , one clear up under the sharp apex of the roof . 
Before the ground floor door was a huge pile of manure . 
The door of the second story room on the side of the house was open , and occupied by the rear elevation of a cow . 
But the chief feature , all around this house , was the big heaps of manure . 
We became very familiar with the fertilizer in the Forest . 
We fell unconsciously into the habit of judging of a man's station in life by this outward and eloquent sign . 
Sometimes we said , Here is a poor devil , this is manifest . 
When we saw a stately accumulation , we said , Here is a banker . 
When we encountered a country seat surrounded by an Alpine pomp of manure , we said , Doubtless a duke lives here . 
The importance of this feature has not been properly magnified in the Black Forest stories . 
The true Black Forest novel , if it is ever written , will be skeletoned somewhat in this way SKELETON FOR A BLACK FOREST NOVEL Rich old farmer , named Huss . 
Has inherited great wealth of manure , and by diligence has added to it . 
It is double starred in Baedeker . 
The Black forest artist paints it his masterpiece . 
The king comes to see it . 
Gretchen Huss , daughter and heiress . 
Paul Hoch , young neighbor , suitor for Gretchen's hand ostensibly he really wants the manure . 
Hans Schmidt , young neighbor , full of sentiment , full of poetry , loves Gretchen , Gretchen loves him . 
But he has no manure . 
Old Huss forbids him in the house . 
His heart breaks , he goes away to die in the woods , far from the cruel world for he says , bitterly , What is man , without manure ? . 
When Baedeker's guide books mention a thing and put two stars after it , it means well worth visiting . 
M. T. Interval of six months . 
Paul Hoch comes to old Huss and says , I am at last as rich as you required come and view the pile . 
Old Huss views it and says , It is sufficient take her and be happy , meaning Gretchen . 
Wedding party assembled in old Huss's drawing room . 
Hoch placid and content , Gretchen weeping over her hard fate . 
Enter old Huss's head bookkeeper . 
Bookkeeper I have found it . 
In the bridegroom's pile ! behold the thief see him blench and tremble ! Sensation . 
Paul Hoch Lost , lost ! falls over the cow in a swoon and is handcuffed . 
Gretchen Saved ! Falls over the calf in a swoon of joy , but is caught in the arms of Hans Schmidt , who springs in at that moment . 
Old Huss What , you here , varlet ? Unhand the maid and quit the place . 
Never ! Cruel old man , know that I come with claims which even you cannot despise . 
Huss What , YOU ? name them . 
The world has forsaken me , I forsook the world , I wandered in the solitude of the forest , longing for death but finding none . 
I fed upon roots , and in my bitterness I dug for the bitterest , loathing the sweeter kind . 
Exhibition of specimens from the mine . 
, and then went into the public room to rest and smoke . 
There we found nine or ten Black Forest grandees assembled around a table . 
They were the Common Council of the parish . 
They had gathered there at eight o'clock that morning to elect a new member , and they had now been drinking beer four hours at the new member's expense . 
, are set up in memory of departed friends , by survivors , and are almost as frequent as telegraph poles are in other lands . 
We followed the carriage road , and had our usual luck we traveled under a beating sun , and always saw the shade leave the shady places before we could get to them . 
In all our wanderings we seldom managed to strike a piece of road at its time for being shady . 
We found an old road , and it proved eventually to be the right one , though we followed it at the time with the conviction that it was the wrong one . 
There had been distractions in the carriage road school children , peasants , wagons , troops of pedestrianizing students from all over Germany but we had the old road to ourselves . 
Now and then , while we rested , we watched the laborious ant at his work . 
I found nothing new in him certainly nothing to change my opinion of him . 
It seems to me that in the matter of intellect the ant must be a strangely overrated bird . 
Those particular ants may be all that the naturalist paints them , but I am persuaded that the average ant is a sham . 
I admit his industry , of course he is the hardest working creature in the world when anybody is looking but his leather headedness is the point I make against him . 
He goes out foraging , he makes a capture , and then what does he do ? Go home ? No he goes anywhere but home . 
He doesn't know where home is . 
His home may be only three feet away no matter , he can't find it . 
Now he wipes the sweat from his brow , strokes his limbs , and then marches aimlessly off , in as violently a hurry as ever . 
Evidently the friend remarks that a last year's grasshopper leg is a very noble acquisition , and inquires where he got it . 
Evidently the proprietor does not remember exactly where he did get it , but thinks he got it around here somewhere . 
Evidently the friend contracts to help him freight it home . 
, then take hold of opposite ends of that grasshopper leg a nd begin to tug with all their might in opposite directions . 
Presently they take a rest and confer together . 
They decide that something is wrong , they can't make out what . 
Then they go at it again , just as before . 
Evidently each accuses the other of being an obstructionist . 
Instead of giving up , he hangs on , and gets his shins bruised against every obstruction that comes in the way . 
There in the Black Forest , on the mountainside , I saw an ant go through with such a performance as this with a dead spider of fully ten times his own weight . 
The spider was not quite dead , but too far gone to resist . 
He had a round body the size of a pea . 
Science has recently discovered that the ant does not lay up anything for winter use . 
This will knock him out of literature , to some extent . 
He does not work , except when people are looking , and only then when the observer has a green , naturalistic look , and seems to be taking notes . 
This amounts to deception , and will injure him for the Sunday schools . 
He has not judgment enough to know what is good to eat from what isn't . 
This amounts to ignorance , and will impair the world's respect for him . 
He cannot stroll around a stump and find his way home again . 
This amounts to idiocy , and once the damaging fact is established , thoughtful people will cease to look up to him , the sentimental will cease to fondle him . 
His vaunted industry is but a vanity and of no effect , since he never gets home with anything he starts with . 
This disposes of the last remnant of his reputation and wholly destroys his main usefulness as a moral agent , since it will make the sluggard hesitate to go to him any more . 
The ant is strong , but we saw another strong thing , where we had not suspected the presence of much muscular power before . 
Ten thousand toadstools , with the right purchase , could lift a man , I suppose . 
But what good would it do ? All our afternoon's progress had been uphill . 
A big hotel crowds the ruins a little , now , and drives a brisk trade with summer tourists . 
We descended into the gorge and had a supper which would have been very satisfactory if the trout had not been boiled . 
The Germans are pretty sure to boil a trout or anything else if left to their own devices . 
This is an argument of some value in support of the theory that they were the original colonists of the wild islands of the coast of Scotland . 
Next day he asked them how they liked them . 
They shook their heads and said Baked , they were tough and even boiled , they warn't things for a hungry man to hanker after . 
We went down the glen after supper . 
It is beautiful a mixture of sylvan loveliness and craggy wildness . 
A limpid torrent goes whistling down the glen , and toward the foot of it winds through a narrow cleft between lofty precipices and hurls itself over a succession of falls . 
It was all the way downhill , and we had the loveliest summer weather for it . 
Now , the true charm of pedestrianism does not lie in the walking , or in the scenery , but in the talking . 
Harris said that if the best writer in the world once got the slovenly habit of doubling up his haves he could never get rid of it while he lived . 
Harris said that his sort of lapse is to be found in every copy of every newspaper that has ever been printed in English , and in almost all of our books . 
He said he had observed it in Kirkham's grammar and in Macaulay . 
Harris believed that milk teeth are commoner in men's mouths than those doubled up haves . 
From a Speech of the English Chancellor of the Exchequer , August , . 
That changed the subject to dentistry . 
I said I believed the average man dreaded tooth pulling more than amputation , and that he would yell quicker under the former operation than he would under the latter . 
The philosopher Harris said that the average man would not yell in either case if he had an audience . 
Then he continued When our brigade first went into camp on the Potomac , we used to be brought up standing , occasionally , by an ear splitting howl of anguish . 
That meant that a soldier was getting a tooth pulled in a tent . 
But the surgeons soon changed that they instituted open air dentistry . 
There never was a howl afterward that is , from the man who was having the tooth pulled . 
Don't want anybody fur to learn the business , 'tain't likely ? Well , I don't know . 
I'd jist as soon learn print'n's anything . 
Can you read ? Yes middlin' . 
Write ? Well , I've seed people could lay over me thar . 
Cipher ? Not good enough to keep store , I don't reckon , but up as fur as twelve times twelve I ain't no slouch . 
'Tother side of that is what gits me . 
Where is your home ? I'm f'm old Shelby . 
What's your father's religious denomination ? Him ? Oh , he's a blacksmith . 
No , no I don't mean his trade . 
What's his RELIGIOUS DENOMINATION ? OH I didn't understand you befo' . 
No , no , you don't get my meaning yet . 
What I mean is , does he belong to any CHURCH ? NOW you're talkin' ! Couldn't make out what you was a tryin' to git through yo' head no way . 
B'long to a CHURCH ! Why , boss , he's ben the pizenest kind of Free will Babtis' for forty year . 
They ain't no pizener ones 'n what HE is . 
Mighty good man , pap is . 
If they said any diffrunt they wouldn't say it whar I wuz not MUCH they wouldn't . 
What is your own religion ? Well , boss , you've kind o' got me , there and yit you hain't got me so mighty much , nuther . 
What is your name ? Nicodemus Dodge . 
I think maybe you'll do , Nicodemus . 
We'll give you a trial , anyway . 
When would you like to begin ? Now . 
So , within ten minutes after we had first glimpsed this nondescript he was one of us , and with his coat off and hard at it . 
Nicodemus was given this lonely and ghostly den as a bedchamber . 
The village smarties recognized a treasure in Nicodemus , right away a butt to play jokes on . 
It was easy to see that he was inconceivably green and confiding . 
He simply said I consider them kind of seeg'yars dangersome , and seemed to suspect nothing . 
The next evening Nicodemus waylaid George and poured a bucket of ice water over him . 
One day , while Nicodemus was in swimming , Tom McElroy tied his clothes . 
Nicodemus made a bonfire of Tom's by way of retaliation . 
The cellar had two feet of stagnant water in it , and was bottomed with six inches of soft mud . 
But I wander from the point . 
It was the subject of skeletons that brought this boy back to my recollection . 
Experimenters grew scarce and chary . 
Now the young doctor came to the rescue . 
There was delight and applause when he proposed to scare Nicodemus to death , and explained how he was going to do it . 
The fifty dollars had gone promptly for whiskey and had considerably hurried up the change of ownership in the skeleton . 
The doctor would put Jimmy Finn's skeleton in Nicodemus's bed ! This was done about half past ten in the evening . 
About Nicodemus's usual bedtime midnight the village jokers came creeping stealthily through the jimpson weeds and sunflowers toward the lonely frame den . 
They reached the window and peeped in . 
We saw men and women standing away up there looking frightened , and there was a bulky object tumbling and floundering down the steep slope toward us . 
We got out of the way , and when the object landed in the road it proved to be a boy . 
He had tripped and fallen , and there was nothing for him to do but trust to luck and take what might come . 
When one starts to roll down a place like that , there is no stopping till the bottom is reached . 
But that is what they do . 
Some of the little farms on the hillside opposite Heidelberg were stood up edgeways . 
The boy was wonderfully jolted up , and his head was bleeding , from cuts which it had got from small stones on the way . 
Harris and I gathered him up and set him on a stone , and by that time the men and women had scampered down and brought his cap . 
At half past eight in the evening we stepped into Oppenau , just eleven hours and a half out of Allerheiligen one hundred and forty six miles . 
CHAPTER XXIV I Protect the Empress of Germany That was a thoroughly satisfactory walk and the only one we were ever to have which was all the way downhill . 
We took the train next morning and returned to Baden Baden through fearful fogs of dust . 
Every seat was crowded , too for it was Sunday , and consequently everybody was taking a pleasure excursion . 
Hot ! the sky was an oven and a sound one , too , with no cracks in it to let in any air . 
An odd time for a pleasure excursion , certainly ! Sunday is the great day on the continent the free day , the happy day . 
One can break the Sabbath in a hundred ways without committing any sin . 
We do not work on Sunday , because the commandment forbids it the Germans do not work on Sunday , because the commandment forbids it . 
We rest on Sunday , because the commandment requires it the Germans rest on Sunday because the commandment requires it . 
But in the definition of the word rest lies all the difference . 
Such is the way in which the Germans seem to define the word rest that is to say , they rest a member by recreating , recuperating , restore its forces . 
But our definition is less broad . 
We all rest alike on Sunday by secluding ourselves and keeping still , whether that is the surest way to rest the most of us or not . 
The Germans make the actors , the preachers , etc . 
We encourage the preachers , the editors , the printers , etc . 
We buy Monday morning's paper and read it , and thus encourage Sunday printing . 
But I shall never do it again . 
Perhaps we constructively BREAK the command to rest , because the resting we do is in most cases only a name , and not a fact . 
These reasonings have sufficed , in a measure , to mend the rent in my conscience which I made by traveling to Baden Baden that Sunday . 
We arrived in time to furbish up and get to the English church before services began . 
Presently the Savior's name was mentioned , and in her flurry she lost her head completely , and rose and courtesied , instead of making a slight nod as everybody else did . 
Things went from bad to worse , and I shortly found myself mentally taking the unfriended lady under my protection . 
My mind was wholly upon her . 
I forgot all about the sermon . 
Then she rose and all the congregation stood while she walked down the aisle . 
She was the Empress of Germany ! No she had not been so much embarrassed as I had supposed . 
My imagination had got started on the wrong scent , and that is always hopeless one is sure , then , to go straight on misinterpreting everything , clear through to the end . 
The young lady with her imperial Majesty was a maid of honor and I had been taking her for one of her boarders , all the time . 
This is the only time I have ever had an Empress under my personal protection and considering my inexperience , I wonder I got through with it so well . 
I should have been a little embarrassed myself if I had known earlier what sort of a contract I had on my hands . 
We found that the Empress had been in Baden Baden several days . 
It is said that she never attends any but the English form of church service . 
There was a vast crowd in the public grounds that night to hear the band play the Fremersberg . 
The instruments imitated all these sounds with a marvelous exactness . 
My soul had never had such a scouring out since I was born . 
I have never heard enough classic music to be able to enjoy it . 
I dislike the opera because I want to love it and can't . 
Yet if base music gives certain of us wings , why should we want any other ? But we do . 
We want it because the higher and better like it . 
We want it without giving it the necessary time and trouble so we climb into that upper tier , that dress circle , by a lie we PRETEND we like it . 
I know several of that sort of people and I propose to be one of them myself when I get home with my fine European education . 
And then there is painting . 
What a red rag is to a bull , Turner's Slave Ship was to me , before I studied art . 
The most of the picture is a manifest impossibility that is to say , a lie and only rigid cultivation can enable a man to find truth in a lie . 
But it enabled Mr. Ruskin to do it , and it has enabled me to do it , and I am thankful for it . 
In my then uneducated state , that went home to my non cultivation , and I thought here is a man with an unobstructed eye . 
Mr. Ruskin would have said This person is an ass . 
That is what I would say , now . 
Months after this was written , I happened into the National Gallery in London , and soon became so fascinated with the Turner pictures that I could hardly get away from the place . 
I went there often , afterward , meaning to see the rest of the gallery , but the Turner spell was too strong it could not be shaken off . 
However , the Turners which attracted me most did not remind me of the Slave Ship . 
However , our business in Baden Baden this time , was to join our courier . 
I had thought it best to hire one , as we should be in Italy , by and by , and we did not know the language . 
We found him at the hotel , ready to take charge of us . 
I asked him if he was all fixed . 
He had a trunk , two small satchels , and an umbrella . 
I was to pay him fifty five dollars a month and railway fares . 
On the continent the railway fare on a trunk is about the same it is on a man . 
Couriers do not have to pay any board and lodging . 
This seems a great saving to the tourist at first . 
It does not occur to the tourist that SOMEBODY pays that man's board and lodging . 
It occurs to him by and by , however , in one of his lucid moments . 
CHAPTER XXV Hunted by the Little Chamois Next morning we left in the train for Switzerland , and reached Lucerne about ten o'clock at night . 
The first discovery I made was that the beauty of the lake had not been exaggerated . 
Within a day or two I made another discovery . 
It is poetic foolishness to hunt it with a gun very few people do that there is not one man in a million who can hit it with a gun . 
It is much easier to catch it that it is to shoot it , and only the experienced chamois hunter can do either . 
Another common piece of exaggeration is that about the scarcity of the chamois . 
It is the reverse of scarce . 
Droves of one hundred million chamois are not unusual in the Swiss hotels . 
Indeed , they are so numerous as to be a great pest . 
The romancers always dress up the chamois hunter in a fanciful and picturesque costume , whereas the best way to hut this game is to do it without any costume at all . 
The article of commerce called chamois skin is another fraud nobody could skin a chamois , it is too small . 
The creature is a humbug in every way , and everything which has been written about it is sentimental exaggeration . 
Lucerne is a charming place . 
Between the curving line of hotels and the lake is a broad avenue with lamps and a double rank of low shade trees . 
The lake front is walled with masonry like a pier , and has a railing , to keep people from walking overboard . 
Most of the people , both male and female , are in walking costume , and carry alpenstocks . 
Evidently , it is not considered safe to go about in Switzerland , even in town , without an alpenstock . 
If the tourist forgets and comes down to breakfast without his alpenstock he goes back and gets it , and stands it up in the corner . 
Thus it is his regimental flag , so to speak , and bears the record of his achievements . 
It is worth three francs when he buys it , but a bonanza could not purchase it after his great deeds have been inscribed upon it . 
There are artisans all about Switzerland whose trade it is to burn these things upon the alpenstock of the tourist . 
And observe , a man is respected in Switzerland according to his alpenstock . 
I found I could get no attention there , while I carried an unbranded one . 
However , branding is not expected , so I soon remedied that . 
The effect upon the next detachment of tourists was very marked . 
I felt repaid for my trouble . 
Half of the summer horde in Switzerland is made up of English people the other half is made up of many nationalities , the Germans leading and the Americans coming next . 
The Americans were not as numerous as I had expected they would be . 
We used to try to guess out the nationalities , and generally succeeded tolerably well . 
Sometimes we tried to guess people's names but that was a failure that is a thing which probably requires a good deal of practice . 
We presently dropped it and gave our efforts to less difficult particulars . 
One morning I said There is an American party . 
Harris said Yes but name the state . 
I named one state , Harris named another . 
We agreed upon one thing , however that the young girl with the party was very beautiful , and very tastefully dressed . 
But we disagreed as to her age . 
I said she was eighteen , Harris said she was twenty . 
Harris said , sarcastically , Certainly , that is the thing to do . 
All you need to do is to use the common formula over here go and say , 'I'm an American ! Of course she will be glad to see you . 
Then he hinted that perhaps there was no great danger of my venturing to speak to her . 
I said , I was only talking I didn't intend to approach her , but I see that you do not know what an intrepid person I am . 
I am not afraid of any woman that walks . 
I will go and speak to this young girl . 
The thing I had in my mind was not difficult . 
There would be no harm done . 
Sit down , sit down how odd it is you are the last person I was ever expecting to see again . 
This was a stupefying surprise . 
It took my wits clear away , for an instant . 
However , we shook hands cordially all around , and I sat down . 
But truly this was the tightest place I ever was in . 
I seemed to vaguely remember the girl's face , now , but I had no idea where I had seen it before , or what named belonged with it . 
I wished the sea had washed the rudder and the smoke stack and the captain away then I could have located this questioner . 
The Unrecognizable continued , with vivacity Do you know , George married Mary , after all ? Why , no ! Did he ? Indeed he did . 
He said he did not believe she was half as much to blame as her father was , and I thought he was right . 
Didn't you ? Of course he was . 
It was a perfectly plain case . 
Why , no you didn't ! at least that summer . 
Oh , no , not that summer . 
No , you are perfectly right about that . 
It was the following winter that I said it . 
Well , as it turned out , Mary was not in the least to blame it was all her father's fault at least his and old Darley's . 
It was necessary to say something so I said I always regarded Darley as a troublesome old thing . 
So he was , but then they always had a great affection for him , although he had so many eccentricities . 
You remember that when the weather was the least cold , he would try to come into the house . 
I was rather afraid to proceed . 
Evidently Darley wa not a man he must be some other kind of animal possibly a dog , maybe an elephant . 
However , tails are common to all animals , so I ventured to say And what a tail he had ! ONE ! He had a thousand ! This was bewildering . 
I did not quite know what to say , so I only said Yes , he WAS rather well fixed in the matter of tails . 
For a negro , and a crazy one at that , I should say he was , said she . 
It was getting pretty sultry for me . 
I said to myself , Is it possible she is going to stop there , and wait for me to speak ? If she does , the conversation is blocked . 
A negro with a thousand tails is a topic which a person cannot talk upon fluently and instructively without more or less preparation . 
His own quarters were comfortable enough , but when the weather was cold , the family were sure to have his company nothing could keep him out of the house . 
But they always bore it kindly because he had saved Tom's life , years before . 
You remember Tom ? Oh , perfectly . 
Fine fellow he was , too . 
And what a pretty little thing his child was ! You may well say that . 
I never saw a prettier child . 
I used to delight to pet it and dandle it and play with it . 
So did I. You named it . 
What WAS that name ? I can't call it to mind . 
It appeared to me that the ice was getting pretty thin , here . 
I would have given something to know what the child's was . 
However , I had the good luck to think of a name that would fit either sex so I brought it out I named it Frances . 
From a relative , I suppose ? But you named the one that died , too one that I never saw . 
Therefore I said I called that one Thomas Henry . 
She said , musingly That is very singular . 
I sat still and let the cold sweat run down . 
I was in a good deal of trouble , but I believed I could worry through if she wouldn't ask me to name any more children . 
I wondered where the lightning was going to strike next . 
She was still ruminating over that last child's title , but presently she said I have always been sorry you were away at the time I would have had you name my child . 
YOUR child ! Are you married ? I have been married thirteen years . 
The youth by your side is my son . 
It seems incredible even impossible . 
That did not help matters , much , as I did not know the date of the storm . 
I was about to say , You haven't changed a bit since then but that was risky . 
I thought of saying , You have improved ever so much since then but that wouldn't answer , of course . 
Why , what is that ? That dead child's name . 
What did you say it was ? Here was another balmy place to be in I had forgotten the child's name I hadn't imagined it would be needed again . 
However , I had to pretend to know , anyway , so I said Joseph William . 
The youth at my side corrected me , and said No , Thomas Henry . 
I thanked him again strictly in words and stammered out Thomas Henry yes , Thomas Henry was the poor child's name . 
I named him for Thomas er Thomas Carlyle , the great author , you know and Henry er er Henry the Eight . 
The parents were very grateful to have a child named Thomas Henry . 
That makes it more singular than ever , murmured my beautiful friend . 
Does it ? Why ? Because when the parents speak of that child now , they always call it Susan Amelia . 
I could not say anything . 
Presently the enemy laughed a happy laugh and said I HAVE enjoyed this talk over old times , but you have not . 
And I have succeeded pretty well . 
One can get quite a fund of information out of you if one goes at it cleverly . 
Mary and the storm , and the sweeping away of the forward boats , were facts all the rest was fiction . 
Mary was my sister her full name was Mary . 
There if that speech moves you any , let's fly the flag of truce , with the understanding that I am conquered and confess it . 
All of which was agreed to and accomplished , on the spot . 
When I went back to Harris , I said Now you see what a person with talent and address can do . 
Excuse me , I see what a person of colossal ignorance and simplicity can do . 
What did you say to them ? I never said any harm . 
I merely asked the girl what her name was . 
Upon my word I don't . 
I think you were capable of it . 
It was stupid in me to let you go over there and make such an exhibition of yourself . 
But you know I couldn't really believe you would do such an inexcusable thing . 
What will those people think of us ? But how did you say it ? I mean the manner of it . 
I hope you were not abrupt . 
No , I was careful about that . 
I said , 'My friend and I would like to know what your name is , if you don't mind . 
No , that was not abrupt . 
There is a polish about it that does you infinite credit . 
And I am glad you put me in that was a delicate attention which I appreciate at its full value . 
What did she do ? She didn't do anything in particular . 
She told me her name . 
Simply told you her name . 
Oh , undoubtedly you were right it must have been gratification it could not be otherwise than gratifying to be assaulted by a stranger with such a question as that . 
Then what did you do ? I offered my hand and the party gave me a shake . 
I saw it ! I did not believe my own eyes , at the time . 
Did the gentleman say anything about cutting your throat ? No , they all seemed glad to see me , as far as I could judge . 
And do you know , I believe they were . 
I think they said to themselves , 'Doubtless this curiosity has got away from his keeper let us amuse ourselves with him . 
There is no other way of accounting for their facile docility . 
Did they ASK you to sit down ? No , they did not ask me , but I suppose they did not think of it . 
You have an unerring instinct . 
What else did you do ? What did you talk about ? Well , I asked the girl how old she was . 
Your delicacy is beyond praise . 
Go on , go on don't mind my apparent misery I always look so when I am steeped in a profound and reverent joy . 
Did she volunteer these statistics ? No , not exactly that . 
I asked the questions and she answered them . 
Go on it is not possible that you forgot to inquire into her politics ? No , I thought of that . 
She is a democrat , her husband is a republican , and both of them are Baptists . 
Her husband ? Is that child married ? She is not a child . 
She is married , and that is her husband who is there with her . 
Yes seven and a half . 
No , she has them . 
Another husband ? Has she another husband ? Yes , four . 
This one is number four . 
I don't believe a word of it . 
It is impossible , upon its face . 
Is that boy there her brother ? No , that is her son . 
He is not as old as he looked he is only eleven and a half . 
These things are all manifestly impossible . 
This is a wretched business . 
It is a plain case they simply took your measure , and concluded to fill you up . 
They seem to have succeeded . 
I am glad I am not in the mess they may at least be charitable enough to think there ain't a pair of us . 
Are they going to stay here long ? No , they leave before noon . 
There is one man who is deeply grateful for that . 
I said you were , and then they said they had changed their mind and considered it necessary to start at once and visit a sick relative in Siberia . 
Ah , me , you struck the summit ! You struck the loftiest altitude of stupidity that human effort has ever reached . 
You shall have a monument of jackasses' skulls as high as the Strasburg spire if you die before I do . 
they meant an asylum an IDIOT asylum , do you understand ? So they DO think there's a pair of us , after all . 
Now what do you think of yourself ? Well , I don't know . 
I didn't know I was doing any harm I didn't MEAN to do any harm . 
They were very nice people , and they seemed to like me . 
Harris made some rude remarks and left for his bedroom to break some furniture , he said . 
He was a singularly irascible man any little thing would disturb his temper . 
I had been well scorched by the young woman , but no matter , I took it out on Harris . 
One should always get even in some way , else the sore place will go on hurting . 
CHAPTER XXVI The Nest of the Cuckoo clock The Hofkirche is celebrated for its organ concerts . 
All summer long the tourists flock to that church about six o'clock in the evening , and pay their franc , and listen to the noise . 
They don't stay to hear all of it , but get up and tramp out over the sounding stone floor , meeting late comers who tramp in in a sounding and vigorous way . 
It is true , there were some soft and merciful passages occasionally , but the tramp tramp of the tourists only allowed one to get fitful glimpses of them , so to speak . 
Then right away the organist would let go another avalanche . 
The commerce of Lucerne consists mainly in gimcrackery of the souvenir sort the shops are packed with Alpine crystals , photographs of scenery , and wooden and ivory carvings . 
I will not conceal the fact that miniature figures of the Lion of Lucerne are to be had in them . 
But they are libels upon him , every one of them . 
There is a subtle something about the majestic pathos of the original which the copyist cannot get . 
Even the sun fails to get it both the photographer and the carver give you a dying lion , and that is all . 
The Lion lies in his lair in the perpendicular face of a low cliff for he is carved from the living rock of the cliff . 
His size is colossal , his attitude is noble . 
How head is bowed , the broken spear is sticking in his shoulder , his protecting paw rests upon the lilies of France . 
Around about are green trees and grass . 
The Lion of Lucerne would be impressive anywhere , but nowhere so impressive as where he is . 
Martyrdom is the luckiest fate that can befall some people . 
She makes him out to be a person with a meek and modest spirit , the heart of a female saint , and a wrong head . 
None of these qualities are kingly but the last . 
Taken together they make a character which would have fared harshly at the hands of history if its owner had had the ill luck to miss martyrdom . 
With the best intentions to do the right thing , he always managed to do the wrong one . 
Moreover , nothing could get the female saint out of him . 
He was not instant in season , but out of season . 
His comprehension was always a train or two behindhand . 
He was good , and honest , and well meaning , in the matter of chasing national diseases , but he never could overtake one . 
As a private man , he would have been lovable but viewed as a king , he was strictly contemptible . 
He meant to be kingly , but he was only the female saint once more . 
Some of his biographers think that upon this occasion the spirit of Saint Louis had descended upon him . 
It must have found pretty cramped quarters . 
Martyrdom made a saint of Mary Queen of Scots three hundred years ago , and she has hardly lost all of her saintship yet . 
The world owes a great deal to the French Revolution , and consequently to its two chief promoters , Louis the Poor in Spirit and his queen . 
We did not buy any wooden images of the Lion , nor any ivory or ebony or marble or chalk or sugar or chocolate ones , or even any photographic slanders of him . 
In Lucerne , too , the wood carvings of other sorts , which had been so pleasant to look upon when one saw them occasionally at home , soon began to fatigue us . 
However , I had no luck which was just as well , for the things will be pretty enough , no doubt , when I get them home . 
For a nervous man , this was a fine state of things . 
Some sounds are hatefuler than others , but no sound is quite so inane , and silly , and aggravating as the HOO'hoo of a cuckoo clock , I think . 
I bought one , and am carrying it home to a certain person for I have always said that if the opportunity ever happened , I would do that man an ill turn . 
What I meant , was , that I would break one of his legs , or something of that sort but in Lucerne I instantly saw that I could impair his mind . 
That would be more lasting , and more satisfactory every way . 
So I bought the cuckoo clock and if I ever get home with it , he is my meat , as they say in the mines . 
I thought of another candidate a book reviewer whom I could name if I wanted to but after thinking it over , I didn't buy him a clock . 
I couldn't injure his mind . 
We visited the two long , covered wooden bridges which span the green and brilliant Reuss just below where it goes plunging and hurrahing out of the lake . 
These rambling , sway backed tunnels are very attractive things , with their alcoved outlooks upon the lovely and inspiriting water . 
They contain two or three hundred queer old pictures , by old Swiss masters old boss sign painters , who flourished before the decadence of art . 
The lake is alive with fishes , plainly visible to the eye , for the water is very clear . 
The parapets in front of the hotels were usually fringed with fishers of all ages . 
One day I thought I would stop and see a fish caught . 
The result brought back to my mind , very forcibly , a circumstance which I had not thought of before for twelve years . 
This is lucky ! You are Mr. Riley , ain't you ? Riley was the most self possessed and solemnly deliberate person in the republic . 
He stopped , looked his man over from head to foot , and finally said I am Mr. Riley . 
I'm one of the teachers of the high school San Francisco . 
As soon as I heard the San Francisco postmastership was vacant , I made up my mind to get it and here I am . 
Yes , said Riley , slowly , as you have remarked . 
And have you got it ? Well , not exactly GOT it , but the next thing to it . 
I've brought a petition , signed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction , and all the teachers , and by more than two hundred other people . 
Now I want you , if you'll be so good , to go around with me to the Pacific delegation , for I want to rush this thing through and get along home . 
If the matter is so pressing , you will prefer that we visit the delegation tonight , said Riley , in a voice which had nothing mocking in it to an unaccustomed ear . 
Oh , tonight , by all means ! I haven't got any time to fool around . 
I want their promise before I go to bed I ain't the talking kind , I'm the DOING kind ! Yes . 
you've come to the right place for that . 
When did you arrive ? Just an hour ago . 
When are you intending to leave ? For New York tomorrow evening for San Francisco next morning . 
And then what ? Executive session of the Senate at P. M. got to get the appointment confirmed I reckon you'll grant that ? Yes . 
yes , said Riley , meditatively , you are right again . 
well , say two days longer ? Bless your soul , no ! It's not my style . 
I ain't a man to go fooling around I'm a man that DOES things , I tell you . 
The storm was raging , the thick snow blowing in gusts . 
But I see you haven't . 
It was in Jackson's time . 
Gadsby's was the principal hotel , then . 
Well , about eleven o'clock that night he came back and ordered a bed and told them to put the horses up said he would collect the claim in the morning . 
This was in January , you understand January , the d of January Wednesday . 
There was a pause and a silence except the noise of the wind and the pelting snow . 
Mr. Lykins said , impatiently Well ? Riley said Well , that was thirty years ago . 
Very well , very well what of it ? I'm great friends with that old patriarch . 
He comes every evening to tell me good by . 
The tears were in his eyes , he was so glad he was going to see his old Tennessee and his friends once more . 
The stranger broke it Is that all ? That is all . 
Well , for the TIME of night , and the KIND of night , it seems to me the story was full long enough . 
But what's it all FOR ? Oh , nothing in particular . 
Well , where's the point of it ? Oh , there isn't any particular point to it . 
He never got that post office . 
CHAPTER XXVII I Spare an Awful Bore Close by the Lion of Lucerne is what they call the Glacier Garden and it is the only one in the world . 
It is on high ground . 
Four or five years ago , some workmen who were digging foundations for a house came upon this interesting relic of a long departed age . 
Scientific men perceived in it a confirmation of their theories concerning the glacial period so through their persuasions the little tract of ground was bought and permanently protected against being built upon . 
The soil was removed , and there lay the rasped and guttered track which the ancient glacier had made as it moved along upon its slow and tedious journey . 
This track was perforated by huge pot shaped holes in the bed rock , formed by the furious washing around in them of boulders by the turbulent torrent which flows beneath all glaciers . 
These huge round boulders still remain in the holes they and the walls of the holes are worn smooth by the long continued chafing which they gave each other in those old days . 
It took a mighty force to churn these big lumps of stone around in that vigorous way . 
The neighboring country had a very different shape , at that time the valleys have risen up and become hills , since , and the hills have become valleys . 
The boulders discovered in the pots had traveled a great distance , for there is no rock like them nearer than the distant Rhone Glacier . 
Very well , we had a delightful trip to Fluelen , on a breezy , sunny day . 
The mountains were a never ceasing marvel . 
Sometimes they rose straight up out of the lake , and towered aloft and overshadowed our pygmy steamer with their prodigious bulk in the most impressive way . 
Not snow clad mountains , these , yet they climbed high enough toward the sky to meet the clouds and veil their foreheads in them . 
They were not barren and repulsive , but clothed in green , and restful and pleasant to the eye . 
He carries a slim cane , surmounted with an English pug's head with red glass eyes . 
Under his arm he carried a German grammar Otto's . 
His hair was short , straight , and smooth , and presently when he turned his head a moment , I saw that it was nicely parted behind . 
He took a cigarette out of a dainty box , stuck it into a meerschaum holder which he carried in a morocco case , and reached for my cigar . 
While he was lighting , I said Yes I am an American . 
I knew it I can always tell them . 
What ship did you come over in ? HOLSATIA . 
We came in the BATAVIA Cunard , you know . 
What kind of passage did you have ? Tolerably rough . 
Captain said he'd hardly ever seen it rougher . 
Where are you from ? New England . 
So'm I. I'm from New Bloomfield . 
Anybody with you ? Yes a friend . 
It's awful slow , going around alone don't you think so ? Rather slow . 
Ever been over here before ? Yes . 
But we've been all around Paris and everywhere . 
I'm to enter Harvard next year . 
Studying German all the time , now . 
Can't enter till I know German . 
I know considerable French I get along pretty well in Paris , or anywhere where they speak French . 
What hotel are you stopping at ? Schweitzerhof . 
No ! is that so ? I never see you in the reception room . 
I go to the reception room a good deal of the time , because there's so many Americans there . 
I make lots of acquaintances . 
I know an American as soon as I see him and so I speak to him and make his acquaintance . 
I like to be always making acquaintances don't you ? Lord , yes ! You see it breaks up a trip like this , first rate . 
I never got bored on a trip like this , if I can make acquaintances and have somebody to talk to . 
But I think a trip like this would be an awful bore , if a body couldn't find anybody to get acquainted with and talk to on a trip like this . 
I'm fond of talking , ain't you ? Passionately . 
Have you felt bored , on this trip ? Not all the time , part of it . 
That's it ! you see you ought to go around and get acquainted , and talk . 
That's the way I always do I just go 'round , 'round , 'round and talk , talk , talk I never get bored . 
You been up the Rigi yet ? No. Going ? I think so . 
What hotel you going to stop at ? I don't know . 
Is there more than one ? Three . 
You stop at the Schreiber you'll find it full of Americans . 
What ship did you say you came over in ? CITY OF ANTWERP . 
You going to Geneva ? Yes . 
What hotel you going to stop at ? Hotel de l''Ecu de G'en eve . 
Don't you do it ! No Americans there ! You stop at one of those big hotels over the bridge they're packed full of Americans . 
But I want to practice my Arabic . 
Good gracious , do you speak Arabic ? Yes well enough to get along . 
Why , hang it , you won't get along in Geneva THEY don't speak Arabic , they speak French . 
What hotel are you stopping at here ? Hotel Pension Beaurivage . 
Sho , you ought to stop at the Schweitzerhof . 
Didn't you know the Schweitzerhof was the best hotel in Switzerland ? look at your Baedeker . 
Yes , I know but I had an idea there warn't any Americans there . 
No Americans ! Why , bless your soul , it's just alive with them ! I'm in the great reception room most all the time . 
I make lots of acquaintances there . 
Not as many as I did at first , because now only the new ones stop in there the others go right along through . 
Where are you from ? Arkansaw . 
Is that so ? I'm from New England New Bloomfield's my town when I'm at home . 
I'm having a mighty good time today , ain't you ? Divine . 
That's what I call it . 
I like this knocking around , loose and easy , and making acquaintances and talking . 
I know an American , soon as I see him so I go and speak to him and make his acquaintance . 
I ain't ever bored , on a trip like this , if I can make new acquaintances and talk . 
I'm awful fond of talking when I can get hold of the right kind of a person , ain't you ? I prefer it to any other dissipation . 
That's my notion , too . 
You been up the Rigi ? Yes . 
What hotel did you stop at ? Schreiber . 
That's the place ! I stopped there too . 
FULL of Americans , WASN'T it ? It always is always is . 
What ship did you come over in ? VILLE DE PARIS . 
What kind of a passage did . 
excuse me a minute , there's some Americans I haven't seen before . 
The time came at last , and now this grand remembrancer bears Schiller's name in huge letters upon its face . 
Curiously enough , this rock was not degraded or defiled in any way . 
He was captured and it turned out that he was an American . 
But here the case is different . 
Because you are a foreigner and ignorant , I will make your sentence light if you were a native I would deal strenuously with you . 
The severest penalties are omitted in your case not as a grace to you , but to that great republic which had the misfortune to give you birth . 
The steamer's benches were ranged back to back across the deck . 
My back hair was mingling innocently with the back hair of a couple of ladies . 
Presently they were addressed by some one and I overheard this conversation You are Americans , I think ? So'm I. Yes we are Americans . 
I knew it I can always tell them . 
What ship did you come over in ? CITY OF CHESTER . 
Oh , yes Inman line . 
We came in the BATAVIA Cunard you know . 
What kind of a passage did you have ? Pretty fair . 
We had it awful rough . 
Captain said he'd hardly seen it rougher . 
Where are you from ? New Jersey . 
So'm I. No I didn't mean that I'm from New England . 
These your children ? belong to both of you ? Only to one of us they are mine my friend is not married . 
Single , I reckon ? So'm I. Are you two ladies traveling alone ? No my husband is with us . 
It's awful slow , going around alone don't you think so ? I suppose it must be . 
Hi , there's Mount Pilatus coming in sight again . 
Named after Pontius Pilate , you know , that shot the apple off of William Tell's head . 
Guide book tells all about it , they say . 
I didn't read it an American told me . 
I don't read when I'm knocking around like this , having a good time . 
Did you ever see the chapel where William Tell used to preach ? I did not know he ever preached there . 
Oh , yes , he did . 
That American told me so . 
He don't ever shut up his guide book . 
He knows more about this lake than the fishes in it . 
Besides , they CALL it 'Tell's Chapel' you know that yourself . 
You ever been over here before ? Yes . 
But we've been all around Paris and everywhere . 
I'm to enter Harvard next year . 
Studying German all the time now . 
Can't enter till I know German . 
It's a mighty good book to get the ICH HABE GEHABT HABEN's out of . 
But I don't really study when I'm knocking around this way . 
But French is different FRENCH ain't anything . 
I get along pretty well in Paris , or anywhere where they speak French . 
What hotel are you stopping at ? The Schweitzerhof . 
No ! is that so ? I never see you in the big reception room . 
I go in there a good deal of the time , because there's so many Americans there . 
I make lots of acquaintances . 
You been up the Rigi yet ? No. Going ? We think of it . 
What hotel you going to stop at ? I don't know . 
Well , then you stop at the Schreiber it's full of Americans . 
What ship did you come over in ? CITY OF CHESTER . 
Oh , yes , I remember I asked you that before . 
But I always ask everybody what ship they came over in , and so sometimes I forget and ask again . 
You going to Geneva ? Yes . 
What hotel you going to stop at ? We expect to stop in a pension . 
I don't hardly believe you'll like that there's very few Americans in the pensions . 
What hotel are you stopping at here ? The Schweitzerhof . 
I asked you that before , too . 
But I always ask everybody what hotel they're stopping at , and so I've got my head all mixed up with hotels . 
But it makes talk , and I love to talk . 
It refreshes me up so don't it you on a trip like this ? Yes sometimes . 
Well , it does me , too . 
As long as I'm talking I never feel bored ain't that the way with you ? Yes generally . 
But there are exception to the rule . 
I don't care to talk to everybody , MYSELF . 
If a person starts in to jabber jabber jabber about scenery , and history , and pictures , and all sorts of tiresome things , I get the fan tods mighty soon . 
I say 'Well , I must be going now hope I'll see you again' and then I take a walk . 
Where you from ? New Jersey . 
Why , bother it all , I asked you THAT before , too . 
Have you seen the Lion of Lucerne ? Not yet . 
But the man who told me about Mount Pilatus says it's one of the things to see . 
It's twenty eight feet long . 
It don't seem reasonable , but he said so , anyway . 
He saw it yesterday said it was dying , then , so I reckon it's dead by this time . 
But that ain't any matter , of course they'll stuff it . 
Did you say the children are yours or HERS ? Mine . 
Oh , so you did . 
Are you going up the . 
no , I asked you that . 
no , I asked you that , too . 
no , you told me that . 
Oh , what kind of voy . 
no , we've been over that ground , too . 
well , I believe that is all . 
BONJOUR I am very glad to have made your acquaintance , ladies . 
The ascent is made by rail , or horseback , or on foot , as one may prefer . 
This village is at the foot of the mountain . 
We were soon tramping leisurely up the leafy mule path , and then the talk began to flow , as usual . 
no real need for hurry , for the guide book made the walking distance from Wa ggis to the summit only three hours and a quarter . 
We were only certain as to the altitudes we calculated to find out for ourselves how many hours it is from the bottom to the top . 
The summit is six thousand feet above the sea , but only forty five hundred feet above the lake . 
He said he wasn't in such a very particular hurry , but he wanted to get to the top while he was young . 
We told him to clear out , then , and leave the things at the uppermost hotel and say we should be along presently . 
Still gently chaffing us , he pushed ahead , up the trail , and soon disappeared . 
By six o'clock we were pretty high up in the air , and the view of lake and mountains had greatly grown in breadth and interest . 
He looked surprised , and said Why , it seems as if I could toss a biscuit into the lake from here , it's so close by . 
Is that an inn , there ? I said it was . 
Well , said he , I can't stand another three hours , I've had enough today I'll take a bed there . 
I asked Are we nearly to the top ? Nearly to the TOP ? Why , bless your soul , you haven't really started , yet . 
I said we would put up at the inn , too . 
So we turned back and ordered a hot supper , and had quite a jolly evening of it with this Englishman . 
It was a sharp disappointment . 
However , we ordered breakfast and told the landlady to call the Englishman , but she said he was already up and off at daybreak and swearing like mad about something or other . 
We could not find out what the matter was . 
He had asked the landlady the altitude of her place above the level of the lake , and she told him fourteen hundred and ninety five feet . 
That was all that was said then he lost his temper . 
He said that between fools and guide books , a man could acquire ignorance enough in twenty four hours in a country like this to last him a year . 
Harris believed our boy had been loading him up with misinformation and this was probably the case , for his epithet described that boy to a dot . 
We got under way about the turn of noon , and pulled out for the summit again , with a fresh and vigorous step . 
Of course that was the locomotive . 
We propped ourselves on our elbows at once , to gaze , for we had never seen a mountain railway yet . 
Presently we could make out the train . 
It seemed incredible that that thing should creep straight up a sharp slant like the roof of a house but there it was , and it was doing that very miracle . 
The country was wild and rocky about here , but there were plenty of trees , plenty of moss , and grass . 
And we recognized , also , that it was that sort of quaint commingling of baritone and falsetto which at home we call Tyrolese warbling . 
continued , and was very pleasant and inspiriting to hear . 
Now the jodeler appeared a shepherd boy of sixteen and in our gladness and gratitude we gave him a franc to jodel some more . 
So he jodeled and we listened . 
We moved on , presently , and he generously jodeled us out of sight . 
After about fifteen minutes we came across another shepherd boy who was jodeling , and gave him half a franc to keep it up . 
He also jodeled us out of sight . 
, , and , and during the remainder of the day hired the rest of the jodelers , at a franc apiece , not to jodel any more . 
There is somewhat too much of the jodeling in the Alps . 
About the middle of the afternoon we passed through a prodigious natural gateway called the Felsenthor , formed by two enormous upright rocks , with a third lying across the top . 
There was a very attractive little hotel close by , but our energies were not conquered yet , so we went on . 
Three hours afterward we came to the railway track . 
Water can only be made cold enough for summer comfort by being prepared in a refrigerator or a closed ice pitcher . 
Europeans say ice water impairs digestion . 
How do they know ? they never drink any . 
At ten minutes past six we reached the Kaltbad station , where there is a spacious hotel with great verandas which command a majestic expanse of lake and mountain scenery . 
It was unspeakably comfortable to stretch our weary limbs between the cool , damp sheets . 
And how we did sleep ! for there is no opiate like Alpine pedestrianism . 
We dressed sullenly and in ill spirits , each accusing the other of oversleeping . 
Harris said if we had brought the courier along , as we ought to have done , we should not have missed these sunrises . 
So it was good luck , not ill luck , that we had missed those other sunrises . 
We were informed by the guide book that we were now , feet above the level of the lake therefore full two thirds of our journey had been accomplished . 
We took the latter , and followed it more than a mile , turned a rocky corner , and came in sight of a handsome new hotel . 
We could ill afford this loss of time . 
We climbed and climbed and we kept on climbing we reached about forty summits , but there was always another one just ahead . 
It came on to rain , and it rained in dead earnest . 
We were soaked through and it was bitter cold . 
Next a smoky fog of clouds covered the whole region densely , and we took to the railway ties to keep from getting lost . 
The night shut down , dark and drizzly and cold . 
About eight in the evening the fog lifted and showed us a well worn path which led up a very steep rise to the left . 
We took it , and as soon as we had got far enough from the railway to render the finding it again an impossibility , the fog shut down on us once more . 
About nine o'clock we made an important discovery that we were not in any path . 
We groped around a while on our hands and knees , but we could not find it so we sat down in the mud and the wet scant grass to wait . 
We were terrified into this by being suddenly confronted with a vast body which showed itself vaguely for an instant and in the next instant was smothered in the fog again . 
We sat with our backs to the precipice , because what little wind there was came from that quarter . 
One could faintly discern the windows and chimneys , and a dull blur of lights . 
We got into some dry clothing , and while our supper was preparing we loafed forsakenly through a couple of vast cavernous drawing rooms , one of which had a stove in it . 
This stove was in a corner , and densely walled around with people . 
There were some Americans and some Germans , but one could see that the great majority were English . 
We lounged into an apartment where there was a great crowd , to see what was going on . 
It was a memento magazine . 
I was going to buy a paper cutter , but I believed I could remember the cold comfort of the Rigi Kulm without it , so I smothered the impulse . 
But I will write again when I get time , for my letters may have miscarried . 
We curled up in the clammy beds , and went to sleep without rocking . 
We were so sodden with fatigue that we never stirred nor turned over till the blooming blasts of the Alpine horn aroused us . 
It may well be imagined that we did not lose any time . 
We snatched on a few odds and ends of clothing , cocooned ourselves in the proper red blankets , and plunged along the halls and out into the whistling wind bareheaded . 
We saw a tall wooden scaffolding on the very peak of the summit , a hundred yards away , and made for it . 
Fifteen minutes too late , at last ! said Harris , in a vexed voice . 
The sun is clear above the horizon . 
No matter , I said , it is a most magnificent spectacle , and we will see it do the rest of its rising anyway . 
In a moment we were deeply absorbed in the marvel before us , and dead to everything else . 
We could only gaze in drunken ecstasy and drink in it . 
Presently Harris exclaimed Why nation , it's going DOWN ! Perfectly true . 
We had missed the MORNING hornblow , and slept all day . 
They seem to be laughing their ribs loose , and there's one girl there at appears to be going all to pieces . 
I never saw such a man as you before . 
I think you are the very last possibility in the way of an ass . 
What have I done ? I answered , with heat . 
What have you done ? You've got up at half past seven o'clock in the evening to see the sun rise , that's what you've done . 
And have you done any better , I'd like to know ? I've always used to get up with the lark , till I came under the petrifying influence of your turgid intellect . 
YOU used to get up with the lark Oh , no doubt you'll get up with the hangman one of these days . 
But you ought to be ashamed to be jawing here like this , in a red blanket , on a forty foot scaffold on top of the Alps . 
And no end of people down here to boot this isn't any place for an exhibition of temper . 
And so the customary quarrel went on . 
When the sun was fairly down , we slipped back to the hotel in the charitable gloaming , and went to bed again . 
He promised to make us hear his horn in the morning , if we were alive . 
CHAPTER XXIX Looking West for Sunrise He kept his word . 
We heard his horn and instantly got up . 
It was dark and cold and wretched . 
We proceeded to dress by the gloom of a couple sickly candles , but we could hardly button anything , our hands shook so . 
That was glad news , indeed . 
It made us cheerful right away . 
One could see the grand Alpine masses dimly outlined against the black firmament , and one or two faint stars blinking through rifts in the night . 
By and by a delicate , spiritual sort of effulgence spread itself by imperceptible degrees over the loftiest altitudes of the snowy wastes but there the effort seemed to stop . 
I said , presently There is a hitch about this sunrise somewhere . 
It doesn't seem to go . 
What do you reckon is the matter with it ? I don't know . 
It appears to hang fire somewhere . 
I never saw a sunrise act like that before . 
Can it be that the hotel is playing anything on us ? Of course not . 
The hotel merely has a property interest in the sun , it has nothing to do with the management of it . 
It is a precarious kind of property , too a succession of total eclipses would probably ruin this tavern . 
It was exactly like you to light a pipe and sit down to wait for the sun to rise in the west . 
It was exactly like me to find out the mistake , too . 
You never would have found it out . 
I find out all the mistakes . 
You make them all , too , else your most valuable faculty would be wasted on you . 
But don't stop to quarrel , now maybe we are not too late yet . 
The sun was well up when we got to the exhibition ground . 
On our way up we met the crowd returning men and women dressed in all sorts of queer costumes , and exhibiting all degrees of cold and wretchedness in their gaits and countenances . 
A dozen still remained on the ground when we reached there , huddled together about the scaffold with their backs to the bitter wind . 
They had their red guide books open at the diagram of the view , and were painfully picking out the several mountains and trying to impress their names and positions on their memories . 
It was one of the saddest sights I ever saw . 
Two sides of this place were guarded by railings , to keep people from being blown over the precipices . 
The view , looking sheer down into the broad valley , eastward , from this great elevation almost a perpendicular mile was very quaint and curious . 
I wanted to see what it was like , anyway . 
The train came along about the middle of the afternoon , and an odd thing it was . 
The locomotive boiler stood on end , and it and the whole locomotive boiler stood on end , and it and the whole locomotive were tiled sharply backward . 
There were two passenger cars , roofed , but wide open all around . 
These cars were not tilted back , but the seats were this enables the passenger to sit level while going down a steep incline . 
About the same speed three miles an hour is maintained both ways . 
Whether going up or down , the locomotive is always at the lower end of the train . 
It pushes in the one case , braces back in the other . 
The passenger rides backward going up , and faces forward going down . 
And I , like my neighbors , unconsciously held back all I could , and threw my weight to the rear , but , of course , that did no particular good . 
There was no level ground at the Kaltbad station the railbed was as steep as a roof I was curious to see how the stop was going to be managed . 
The train can be stopped anywhere , at a moment's notice . 
All the shrubs , fir trees , stables , houses , etc . 
, seem to be bent in a slanting direction , as by an immense pressure of air . 
They are all standing awry , so much awry that the chalets and cottages of the peasants seem to be tumbling down . 
It is the consequence of the steep inclination of the line . 
By the time one reaches Kaltbad , he has acquired confidence in the railway , and he now ceases to try to ease the locomotive by holding back . 
Thenceforth he smokes his pipe in serenity , and gazes out upon the magnificent picture below and about him with unfettered enjoyment . 
There is nothing to interrupt the view or the breeze it is like inspecting the world on the wing . 
So ends the eventual trip which we made to the Rigi Kulm to see an Alpine sunrise . 
CHAPTER XXX Harris Climbs Mountains for Me An hour's sail brought us to Lucerne again . 
Thinking over my plans , as mapped out , I perceived that they did not take in the Furka Pass , the Rhone Glacier , the Finsteraarhorn , the Wetterhorn , etc . 
I immediately examined the guide book to see if these were important , and found they were in fact , a pedestrian tour of Europe could not be complete without them . 
Of course that decided me at once to see them , for I never allow myself to do things by halves , or in a slurring , slipshod way . 
I told him to take the courier with him . 
So the two assumed complete mountaineering costumes and departed . 
A week later they returned , pretty well used up , and my agent handed me the following Official Report OF A VISIT TO THE FURKA REGION . 
Half a mile below this we began to climb the flowery side of the Meienwand . 
Next morning the HOGGLEBUMGULLUP still continued bad , but we made up our minds to go on , and make the best of it . 
Near Guttanen the HABOOLONG happily ceased , and we had time to walk ourselves tolerably dry before arriving at Reichenback , WO we enjoyed a good DINE' at the Hotel des Alps . 
Next morning we walked to Rosenlaui , the BEAU ID'EAL of Swiss scenery , where we spent the middle of the day in an excursion to the glacier . 
A few steps cut in the WHOOPJAMBOREEHOO enabled us to walk completely under this , and feast our eyes upon one of the loveliest objects in creation . 
The glacier was all around divided by numberless fissures of the same exquisite color , and the finest wood ERDBEEREN were growing in abundance but a few yards from the ice . 
The clouds by this time seemed to have done their worst , for a lovely day succeeded , which we determined to devote to an ascent of the Faulhorn . 
At noon the day before Grindelwald the thermometer could not have stood at less than degrees Fahr . 
It is in many ways an excellent document . 
But it has a fault it is too learned , it is much too learned . 
What is 'DINGBLATTER' ? 'DINGBLATTER' is a Fiji word meaning 'degrees . 
You knew the English of it , then ? Oh , yes . 
What is 'GNILLIC' ? That is the Eskimo term for 'snow . 
So you knew the English for that , too ? Why , certainly . 
What does 'MMBGLX' stand for ? That is Zulu for 'pedestrian . 
'While the form of the Wellhorn looking down upon it completes the enchanting BOPPLE . 
What is 'BOPPLE' ? 'Picture . 
What is 'SCHNAWP' ? 'Valley . 
That is Choctaw , also . 
What is 'BOLWOGGOLY' ? That is Chinese for 'hill . 
'But we were again overtaken by bad HOGGLEBUMGULLUP . 
What does 'HOGGLEBUMGULLUP' mean ? That is Chinese for 'weather . 
Is 'HOGGLEBUMGULLUP' better than the English word ? Is it any more descriptive ? No , it means just the same . 
And 'DINGBLATTER' and 'GNILLIC , and 'BOPPLE , and 'SCHNAWP' are they better than the English words ? No , they mean just what the English ones do . 
Why should you want to use foreign words , anyhow ? They adorn my page . 
Who is 'all' ? Everybody . 
Anybody has a right to that wants to . 
I think you are mistaken . 
I then proceeded in the following scathing manner . 
That is a great cruelty to nine out of ten of the man's readers . 
What is the excuse for this ? The writer would say he only uses the foreign language where the delicacy of his point cannot be conveyed in English . 
Very well , then he writes his best things for the tenth man , and he ought to warn the nine other not to buy his book . 
When the musing spider steps upon the red hot shovel , he first exhibits a wild surprise , then he shrivels up . 
Similar was the effect of these blistering words upon the tranquil and unsuspecting Agent . 
I can be dreadfully rough on a person when the mood takes me . 
CHAPTER XXXI Alp scaling by Carriage We now prepared for a considerable walk from Lucerne to Interlaken , over the Bru nig Pass . 
But at the last moment the weather was so good that I changed my mind and hired a four horse carriage . 
It was a huge vehicle , roomy , as easy in its motion as a palanquin , and exceedingly comfortable . 
The quaint windows are filled with little panes , and garnished with white muslin curtains , and brightened with boxes of blooming flowers . 
The building is wholly of wood , reddish brown in tint , a very pleasing color . 
It generally has vines climbing over it . 
Set such a house against the fresh green of the hillside , and it looks ever so cozy and inviting and picturesque , and is a decidedly graceful addition to the landscape . 
In the course of the morning we passed the spot where Pontius Pilate is said to have thrown himself into the lake . 
Presently we passed the place where a man of better odor was born . 
This was the children's friend , Santa Claus , or St . 
There are some unaccountable reputations in the world . 
This saint's is an instance . 
He has ranked for ages as the peculiar friend of children , yet it appears he was not much of a friend to his own . 
Judging by Pilate and St . 
Nicholas , there exists no rule for the construction of hermits they seem made out of all kinds of material . 
But Pilate attended to the matter of expiating his sin while he was alive , whereas St . 
Nicholas will probably have to go on climbing down sooty chimneys , Christmas eve , forever , and conferring kindness on other people's children , to make up for deserting his own . 
which we visited , and are naturally held in great reverence . 
His portrait is common in the farmhouses of the region , but is believed by many to be but an indifferent likeness . 
During his hermit life , according to legend , he partook of the bread and wine of the communion once a month , but all the rest of the month he fasted . 
One does not understand why rocks and landslides do not plunge down these declivities daily . 
A landslip occurred three quarters of a century ago , on the route from Arth to Brunnen , which was a formidable thing . 
They seldom desisted early , but continued to run and insist beside the wagon while they could , and behind it until they lost breath . 
Then they turned and chased a returning carriage back to their trading post again . 
After several hours of this , without any intermission , it becomes almost annoying . 
I do not know what we should have done without the returning carriages to draw off the pursuit . 
However , there were plenty of these , loaded with dusty tourists and piled high with luggage . 
Indeed , from Lucerne to Interlaken we had the spectacle , among other scenery , of an unbroken procession of fruit peddlers and tourists carriages . 
Our talk was mostly anticipatory of what we should see on the down grade of the Bru nig , by and by , after we should pass the summit . 
As we approached the Kaiserstuhl , a part of the harness gave way . 
We were in distress for a moment , but only a moment . 
It was the fore and aft gear that was broken the thing that leads aft from the forward part of the horse and is made fast to the thing that pulls the wagon . 
Cabs use it , private carriages , freight carts and wagons , all sorts of vehicles have it . 
But I had long been accustomed to it now , and had even become afraid of the leather strap which belonged in its place . 
Our driver got a fresh piece of clothes line out of his locker and repaired the break in two minutes . 
So much for one European fashion . 
Every country has its own ways . 
It may interest the reader to know how they put horses to on the continent . 
I never have buckled up a horse myself , but I do not think we do it that way . 
We had four very handsome horses , and the driver was very proud of his turnout . 
He was a great man to those villagers , with his gaudy clothes and his terrific ways . 
Then he mounted his lofty box , swung his explosive whip , and away he went again , like a storm . 
I had not seen anything like this before since I was a boy , and the stage used to flourish the village with the dust flying and the horn tooting . 
He could not have six horses all the time , so he made the most of his chance while he had it . 
Up to this point we had been in the heart of the William Tell region . 
The hero is not forgotten , by any means , or held in doubtful veneration . 
His wooden image , with his bow drawn , above the doors of taverns , was a frequent feature of the scenery . 
Carriage after carriage , laden with tourists and trunks , arrived , and the quiet hotel was soon populous . 
We were early at the table d'ho te and saw the people all come in . 
There were twenty five , perhaps . 
They were of various nationalities , but we were the only Americans . 
They had a pretty little lovers' quarrel over what wine they should have . 
Neddy was for obeying the guide book and taking the wine of the country but the bride said What , that nahsty stuff ! It isn't nahsty , pet , it's quite good . 
No , it ISN'T nahsty . 
It's Oful nahsty , Neddy , and I shahn't drink it . 
Then the question was , what she must have . 
She said he knew very well that she never drank anything but champagne . 
She added You know very well papa always has champagne on his table , and I've always been used to it . 
DO order the champagne , I'm Oful dry . 
So with a mock groan which made her laugh again , Neddy ordered the champagne . 
The fact that this young woman had never moistened the selvedge edge of her soul with a less plebeian tipple than champagne , had a marked and subduing effect on Harris . 
He believed she belonged to the royal family . 
But I had my doubts . 
We did not hear any of these speak . 
But finally the last named gentleman left while we were not noticing , but we looked up as he reached the far end of the table . 
He stopped there a moment , and made his toilet with a pocket comb . 
So he was a German or else he had lived in German hotels long enough to catch the fashion . 
When the elderly couple and the young girl rose to leave , they bowed respectfully to us . 
So they were Germans , too . 
This national custom is worth six of the other one , for export . 
They said the view was marvelous , and that one who had seen it once could never forget it . 
They threw up their hands in speechless intimation that the road was simply paved with refreshment peddlers . 
We were impatient to get away , now , and the rest of our two hour stop rather dragged . 
But finally the set time arrived and we began the ascent . 
Indeed it was a wonderful road . 
The road could not have been better built if Napoleon the First had built it . 
He seems to have been the introducer of the sort of roads which Europe now uses . 
Smoking was never so good before , solid comfort was never solider we lay back against the thick cushions silent , meditative , steeped in felicity . 
I rubbed my eyes , opened them , and started . 
I had been dreaming I was at sea , and it was a thrilling surprise to wake up and find land all around me . 
It took me a couple seconds to come to , as you may say then I took in the situation . 
Several small girls held night capped babies nearly as big as themselves in their arms , and even these fat babies seemed to take a sort of sluggish interest in us . 
We had slept an hour and a half and missed all the scenery ! I did not need anybody to tell me that . 
If I had been a girl , I could have cursed for vexation . 
As it was , I woke up the agent and gave him a piece of my mind . 
Instead of being humiliated , he only upbraided me for being so wanting in vigilance . 
He even tried to get up some emotion about that poor courier , who never got a chance to see anything , on account of my heedlessness . 
It was just about sunset , and we had made the trip from Lucerne in ten hours . 
There was a great gathering at dinner , and , as usual , one heard all sorts of languages . 
The table d'ho te was served by waitresses dressed in the quaint and comely costume of the Swiss peasants . 
It gives to the wearer a singularly piquant and alluring aspect . 
One of these waitresses , a woman of forty , had side whiskers reaching half way down her jaws . 
They were two fingers broad , dark in color , pretty thick , and the hairs were an inch long . 
One sees many women on the continent with quite conspicuous mustaches , but this was the only woman I saw who had reached the dignity of whiskers . 
There they grouped themselves about , in couples and threes , and mumbled in bated voices , and looked timid and homeless and forlorn . 
There was a small piano in this room , a clattery , wheezy , asthmatic thing , certainly the very worst miscarriage in the way of a piano that the world has seen . 
In turn , five or six dejected and homesick ladies approached it doubtingly , gave it a single inquiring thump , and retired with the lockjaw . 
But the boss of that instrument was to come , nevertheless and from my own country from Arkansaw . 
Then , without any more preliminaries , she turned on all the horrors of the Battle of Prague , that venerable shivaree , and waded chin deep in the blood of the slain . 
She made a fair and honorable average of two false notes in every five , but her soul was in arms and she never stopped to correct . 
There never was a completer victory I was the only non combatant left on the field . 
I would not have deserted my countrywoman anyhow , but indeed I had no desires in that direction . 
None of us like mediocrity , but we all reverence perfection . 
This girl's music was perfection in its way it was the worst music that had ever been achieved on our planet by a mere human being . 
I moved up close , and never lost a strain . 
When she got through , I asked her to play it again . 
She did it with a pleased alacrity and a heightened enthusiasm . 
She made it ALL discords , this time . 
She got an amount of anguish into the cries of the wounded that shed a new light on human suffering . 
She was on the war path all the evening . 
All the time , crowds of people gathered on the porches and pressed their noses against the windows to look and marvel , but the bravest never ventured in . 
The bride went off satisfied and happy with her young fellow , when her appetite was finally gorged , and the tourists swarmed in again . 
In the morning , when we looked out of our windows , we saw a wonderful sight . 
I took out my sketch book and made a little picture of the Jungfrau , merely to get the shape . 
Other artists have done me the grace to admire it but I am severe in my judgments of my own pictures , and this one does not move me . 
It is the distance that makes the deception . 
The wooded height is but four or five miles removed from us , but the Jungfrau is four or five times that distance away . 
There are people who know everything . 
Some of these had told us that continental shopkeepers always raise their prices on English and Americans . 
Many people had told us it was expensive to buy things through a courier , whereas I had supposed it was just the reverse . 
Then I moved on a few yards , and waited . 
The courier came presently and reported the price . 
I said to myself , It is a hundred francs too much , and so dismissed the matter from my mind . 
But in the afternoon I was passing that place with Harris , and the picture attracted me again . 
We stepped in , to see how much higher broken German would raise the price . 
The shopwoman named a figure just a hundred francs lower than the courier had named . 
This was a pleasant surprise . 
I said I would take it . 
This was an unexpected remark . 
I said What makes you think I have a courier ? Ah , that is very simple he told me himself . 
But tell me why did you charge him more than you are charging me ? That is very simple , also I do not have to pay you a percentage . 
Oh , I begin to see . 
You would have had to pay the courier a percentage . 
The courier always has his percentage . 
In this case it would have been a hundred francs . 
But it seems to me that the purchaser does all the paying , even then . 
Oh , to be sure ! It goes without saying . 
He has not done the buying . 
I could not dare to refuse . 
He would never bring travelers here again . 
More than that , he would denounce me to the other couriers , they would divert custom from me , and my business would be injured . 
I went away in a thoughtful frame of mind . 
I began to see why a courier could afford to work for fifty five dollars a month and his fares . 
Another thing was also explained , now , apparently . 
In one town I had taken the courier to the bank to do the translating when I drew some money . 
I had sat in the reading room till the transaction was finished . 
It was a new experience . 
Exchange had been in my favor ever since I had been in Europe , but just that one time . 
I got simply the face of my draft , and no extra francs , whereas I had expected to get quite a number of them . 
This was the first time I had ever used the courier at the bank . 
I had suspected something then , and as long as he remained with me afterward I managed bank matters by myself . 
Without a courier , travel hasn't a ray of pleasure in it , anywhere but with him it is a continuous and unruffled delight . 
You tell him what day you will start , and whither you are going leave all the rest to him . 
You need not inquire about trains , or fares , or car changes , or hotels , or anything else . 
They are in a condition to kill somebody by this time . 
Meantime , you have been sitting in your car , smoking , and observing all this misery in the extremest comfort . 
For the courier has made everything right with the guard . 
Perhaps you arrive at your destination in a rain storm at ten at night you generally do . 
Some of those other people will have to drift around to two or three hotels , in the rain , before they find accommodations . 
My courier was the worst one in Europe , yet he was a good deal better than none at all . 
It could not pay him to be a better one than he was , because I could not afford to buy things through him . 
He was a good enough courier for the small amount he got out of his service . 
Yes , to travel with a courier is bliss , to travel without one is the reverse . 
I have had dealings with some very bad couriers but I have also had dealings with one who might fairly be called perfection . 
He was a young Polander , named Joseph N. Verey . 
His address is , care of Messrs . 
Gay Son , Strand , London he was formerly a conductor of Gay's tourist parties . 
Excellent couriers are somewhat rare if the reader is about to travel , he will find it to his advantage to make a note of this one . 
This was said to be a spectacle which the tourist ought by no means to miss . 
I was strongly tempted , but I could not go there with propriety , because one goes in a boat . 
The task which I had set myself was to walk over Europe on foot , not skim over it in a boat . 
I had made a tacit contract with myself it was my duty to abide by it . 
I was willing to make boat trips for pleasure , but I could not conscientiously make them in the way of business . 
It cost me something of a pang to lose that fine sight , but I lived down the desire , a nd gained in my self respect through the triumph . 
I had a finer and a grander sight , however , where I was . 
This was the mighty dome of the Jungfrau softly outlined against the sky and faintly silvered by the starlight . 
Down the road a piece was a Kursaal whatever that may be and we joined the human tide to see what sort of enjoyment it might afford . 
It was the usual open air concert , in an ornamental garden , with wines , beer , milk , whey , grapes , etc . 
the whey and the grapes being necessaries of life to certain invalids whom physicians cannot repair , and who only continue to exist by the grace of whey or grapes . 
After making this pun he died that is the whey it served him . 
He said these were tedious people to talk with . 
One finds out a great many wonderful things , by traveling , if he stumbles upon the right person . 
I did not remain long at the Kursaal the music was good enough , but it seemed rather tame after the cyclone of that Arkansaw expert . 
thought that the portier of the hotel would be able to tell us how to find our way . 
And so it turned out . 
A relief map is a great thing . 
However , when we came down to breakfast at A. M. , it looked so much like rain that I hired a two horse top buggy for the first third of the journey . 
Then a steady downpour set in , and hid everything but the nearest objects . 
We had the road to ourselves , and I never had a pleasanter excursion . 
It was a sort of breath taking surprise for we had not supposed there was anything behind that low hung blanket of sable cloud but level valley . 
What we had been mistaking for fleeting glimpses of sky away aloft there , were really patches of the Blumis's snowy crest caught through shredded rents in the drifting pall of vapor . 
These rascals overflowed with attentions and information for their guests , and with brotherly love for each other . 
They tied their reins , and took off their coats and hats , so that they might be able to give unencumbered attention to conversation and to the gestures necessary for its illustration . 
When the top was reached and we went flying down the other side , there was no change in the program . 
Here and there , in grooved depressions among the snowy desolations of the upper altitudes , one glimpsed the extremity of a glacier , with its sea green and honeycombed battlements of ice . 
Up the valley , under a dizzy precipice , nestled the village of Kandersteg , our halting place for the night . 
We were soon there , and housed in the hotel . 
This was the snuggest little croquet ground imaginable it was perfectly level , and not more than a mile long by half a mile wide . 
It was so high above the Kandersteg valley that there was nothing between it and the snowy peaks . 
The green nook which I have been describing is called the Gasternthal . 
There was no lack of cascades along this route . 
It was a wonderfully exhilarating spectacle . 
When I had had enough exercise , I made the agent take some , by running a race with one of those logs . 
I made a trifle by betting on the log . 
There were no sounds but the dulled complaining of the torrent and the occasional tinkling of a distant bell . 
The spirit of the place was a sense of deep , pervading peace one might dream his life tranquilly away there , and not miss it or mind it when it was gone . 
The summer departed with the sun , and winter came with the stars . 
over the pass , was a blocked generosity . 
CHAPTER XXXIV The World's Highest Pig Farm We hired the only guide left , to lead us on our way . 
He was over seventy , but he could have given me nine tenths of his strength and still had all his age entitled him to . 
He shouldered our satchels , overcoats , and alpenstocks , and we set out up the steep path . 
When we began that ascent , we could see a microscopic chalet perched away up against heaven on what seemed to be the highest mountain near us . 
It was on our right , across the narrow head of the valley . 
Still it seemed a long way up in the air , in that waste and lonely wilderness of rocks . 
What a frightful distance he would fall ! for there are very few birds that fly as high as his starting point . 
He would strike and bounce , two or three times , on his way down , but this would be no advantage to him . 
I would as soon taking an airing on the slant of a rainbow as in such a front yard . 
I would rather , in fact , for the distance down would be about the same , and it is pleasanter to slide than to bounce . 
I could not see how the peasants got up to that chalet the region seemed too steep for anything but a balloon . 
We could have dropped a stone into it . 
We found , indeed , more interest in the wild flowers than in anything else . 
We gathered a specimen or two of every kind which we were unacquainted with so we had sumptuous bouquets . 
But one of the chief interests lay in chasing the seasons of the year up the mountain , and determining them by the presence of flowers and berries which we were acquainted with . 
I made no notes , and have forgotten the details , but the construction of the floral calendar was very entertaining while it lasted . 
In the high regions we found rich store of the splendid red flower called the Alpine rose , but we did not find any examples of the ugly Swiss favorite called Edelweiss . 
Its name seems to indicate that it is a noble flower and that it is white . 
It may be noble enough , but it is not attractive , and it is not white . 
The fuzzy blossom is the color of bad cigar ashes , and appears to be made of a cheap quality of gray plush . 
Everybody in the Alps wears a sprig of Edelweiss in his hat . 
It is the native's pet , and also the tourist's . 
These wore loose knee breeches , long yarn stockings , and hobnailed high laced walking shoes . 
They were gentlemen who would go home to England or Germany and tell how many miles they had beaten the guide book every day . 
All the morning an endless double procession of mule mounted tourists filed past us along the narrow path the one procession going , the other coming . 
Still we found an interest in the thing , because we naturally liked to know who were English and Americans among the passers by . 
All continental natives responded of course so did some of the English and Americans , but , as a general thing , these two races gave no sign . 
The English and American folk are not less kindly than other races , they are only more reserved , and that comes of habit and education . 
In one dreary , rocky waste , away above the line of vegetation , we met a procession of twenty five mounted young men , all from America . 
We got answering bows enough from these , of course , for they were of an age to learn to do in Rome as Rome does , without much effort . 
Consequently this place could be really reckoned as property it had a money value , and was doubtless taxed . 
I think it must have marked the limit of real estate in this world . 
It would be hard to set a money value upon any piece of earth that lies between that spot and the empty realm of space . 
That man may claim the distinction of owning the end of the world , for if there is any definite end to the world he has certainly found it . 
From here forward we moved through a storm swept and smileless desolation . 
Soiled and aged banks of snow lay close about our path . 
The ghastly desolation of the place was as tremendously complete as if Dor'e had furnished the working plans for it . 
I have just said that there was nothing but death and desolation in these hideous places , but I forgot . 
She seemed to say , Cheer up ! as long as we are here , let us make the best of it . 
We stopped for a nooning at a strongly built little inn called the Schwarenbach . 
It was the only habitation in the whole Gemmi Pass . 
Close at hand , now , was a chance for a blood curdling Alpine adventure . 
Close at hand was the snowy mass of the Great Altels cooling its topknot in the sky and daring us to an ascent . 
I was fired with the idea , and immediately made up my mind to procure the necessary guides , ropes , etc . 
I instructed Harris to go to the landlord of the inn and set him about our preparations . 
, and selected his account of his ascent of Monte Rosa . 
Not a sound disturbed the deep tranquillity of the night , except the distant roar of streams which rush from the high plateau of the St . 
Theodule glacier , and fall headlong over precipitous rocks till they lose themselves in the mazes of the Gorner glacier . 
He took his hot toast and coffee , and then about half past three his caravan of ten men filed away from the Riffel Hotel , and began the steep climb . 
But the adventurers moved steadily on , nevertheless . 
Fatigue compelled them to halt frequently , for a moment or two . 
By and by they came to an ice coated ridge which was tilted up at a sharp angle , and had a precipice on one side of it . 
The others followed in much the same fashion . 
The rope is an immense help in places of this kind . 
When I had read thus far , Harris broke into the room in a noble excitement and said the ropes and the guides were secured , and asked if I was ready . 
I said I believed I wouldn't ascend the Altels this time . 
But I told him to retain the guides and order them to follow us to Zermatt , because I meant to use them there . 
I said I could feel the spirit of adventure beginning to stir in me , and was sure that the fell fascination of Alp climbing would soon be upon me . 
I said he could make up his mind to it that we would do a deed before we were a week older which would make the hair of the timid curl with fright . 
This made Harris happy , and filled him with ambitious anticipations . 
He went at once to tell the guides to follow us to Zermatt and bring all their paraphernalia with them . 
I walked into a new world , I saw with new eyes . 
My sense of their grandeur and their noble beauty was neither lost nor impaired I had gained a new interest in the mountains without losing the old ones . 
I followed the steep lines up , inch by inch , with my eye , and noted the possibility or impossibility of following them with my feet . 
When I saw a shining helmet of ice projecting above the clouds , I tried to imagine I saw files of black specks toiling up it roped together with a gossamer thread . 
I had never been so near a glacier before . 
Here we came upon a new board shanty , and found some men engaged in building a stone house so the Schwarenback was soon to have a rival . 
We were surrounded by a hideous desolation . 
We stepped forward to a sort of jumping off place , and were confronted by a startling contrast we seemed to look down into fairyland . 
The bench seemed lifted well up into our neighborhood , but that was a deception it was a long way down to it . 
We began our descent , now , by the most remarkable road I have ever seen . 
It wound it corkscrew curves down the face of the colossal precipice a narrow way , with always the solid rock wall at one elbow , and perpendicular nothingness at the other . 
I always took the inside , when I heard or saw the mule coming , and flattened myself against the wall . 
I preferred the inside , of course , but I should have had to take it anyhow , because the mule prefers the outside . 
A mule's preference on a precipice is a thing to be respected . 
Well , his choice is always the outside . 
This panel was old and gray and feeble , and the light masonry had been loosened by recent rains . 
I did not do this , because I did not wish to soil my clothes . 
It bent outward a foot ! I never made a gasp before that came so near suffocating me . 
The English youth's face simply showed a lively surprise , but nothing more . 
He went swinging along valleyward again , as if he did not know he had just swindled a coroner by the closest kind of a shave . 
It is carried by relays of strong porters . 
The motion is easier than that of any other conveyance . 
As a rule , they looked at their laps , and left the scenery to take care of itself . 
But the most frightened creature I saw , was a led horse that overtook us . 
Poor fellow , he had been born and reared in the grassy levels of the Kandersteg valley and had never seen anything like this hideous place before . 
He was a handsome fellow , and he made a fine statuesque picture of terror , but it was pitiful to see him suffer so . 
This dreadful path has had its tragedy . 
Baedeker , with his customary overterseness , begins and ends the tale thus The descent on horseback should be avoided . 
In a Comtesse d'Herlincourt fell from her saddle over the precipice and was killed on the spot . 
We looked over the precipice there , and saw the monument which commemorates the event . 
It stands in the bottom of the gorge , in a place which has been hollowed out of the rock to protect it from the torrent and the storms . 
He said the Countess was very pretty , and very young hardly out of her girlhood , in fact . 
She was newly married , and was on her bridal tour . 
The young husband was riding a little in advance one guide was leading the husband's horse , another was leading the bride's . 
Then after a pause Ah , yes , that guide saw these things yes , he saw them all . 
He saw them all , just as I have told you . 
After another pause Ah , yes , he saw them all . 
My God , that was ME . 
I was that guide ! This had been the one event of the old man's life so one may be sure he had forgotten no detail connected with it . 
We listened to all he had to say about what was done and what happened and what was said after the sorrowful occurrence , and a painful story it was . 
We went leisurely down there , expecting to find it without any trouble , but we had made a mistake , as to that . 
We afterward had the thing reconstructed , and the owner can have his adventurous lost property by submitting proofs and paying costs of rehabilitation . 
We had hopes of finding the owner there , distributed around amongst the rocks , for it would have made an elegant paragraph but we were disappointed . 
Then we sat down to polish off the perspiration and arrange about what we would do with him when we got him . 
Harris was for contributing him to the British Museum but I was for mailing him to his widow . 
That is the difference between Harris and me Harris is all for display , I am all for the simple right , even though I lose money by it . 
Harris argued in favor of his proposition against mine , I argued in favor of mine and against his . 
The discussion warmed into a dispute the dispute warmed into a quarrel . 
I finally said , very decidedly My mind is made up . 
He goes to the widow . 
Harris answered sharply And MY mind is made up . 
He goes to the Museum . 
I said , calmly The museum may whistle when it gets him . 
Harris retorted The widow may save herself the trouble of whistling , for I will see that she never gets him . 
After some angry bandying of epithets , I said It seems to me that you are taking on a good many airs about these remains . 
I don't quite see what YOU'VE got to say about them ? I ? I've got ALL to say about them . 
They'd never have been thought of if I hadn't found their opera glass . 
The corpse belongs to me , and I'll do as I please with him . 
I was leader of the Expedition , and all discoveries achieved by it naturally belonged to me . 
I was entitled to these remains , and could have enforced my right but rather than have bad blood about the matter , I said we would toss up for them . 
I threw heads and won , but it was a barren victory , for although we spent all the next day searching , we never found a bone . 
I cannot imagine what could ever have become of that fellow . 
The town in the valley is called Leuk or Leukerbad . 
They ought to either pave that village or organize a ferry . 
He said the chamois was plentiful enough , without hunting up hotels where they made a specialty of it . 
I was indifferent , for the chamois is a creature that will neither bite me nor abide with me but to calm Harris , we went to the Ho tel des Alpes . 
At the table d'ho te , we had this , for an incident . 
A very grave man in fact his gravity amounted to solemnity , and almost to austerity sat opposite us and he was tight , but doing his best to appear sober . 
Presently he put his glass to his mouth , and of course found it empty . 
He looked puzzled , and glanced furtively and suspiciously out of the corner of his eye at a benignant and unconscious old lady who sat at his right . 
Shook his head , as much as to say , No , she couldn't have done it . 
He tilted the corked bottle over his glass again , meantime searching around with his watery eye to see if anybody was watching him . 
He ate a few mouthfuls , raised his glass to his lips , and of course it was still empty . 
He bent an injured and accusing side glance upon that unconscious old lady , which was a study to see . 
She went on eating and gave no sign . 
This was almost a petrifying surprise . 
He straightened himself up in his chair and deliberately and sorrowfully inspected the busy old ladies at his elbows , first one and then the other . 
This time he observed that nothing came . 
It was at that table d'ho te , too , that I had under inspection the largest lady I have ever seen in private life . 
She was over seven feet high , and magnificently proportioned . 
She had a handsome face , and she was very finely formed perfected formed , I should say . 
But she made everybody around her look trivial and commonplace . 
Ladies near her looked like children , and the men about her looked mean . 
They looked like failures and they looked as if they felt so , too . 
She sat with her back to us . 
I never saw such a back in my life . 
I would have so liked to see the moon rise over it . 
She filled one's idea of what an empress ought to be , when she rose up in her unapproachable grandeur and moved superbly out of that place . 
We were not at Leuk in time to see her at her heaviest weight . 
She had suffered from corpulence and had come there to get rid of her extra flesh in the baths . 
Five weeks of soaking five uninterrupted hours of it every day had accomplished her purpose and reduced her to the right proportions . 
Those baths remove fat , and also skin diseases . 
The patients remain in the great tanks for hours at a time . 
A dozen gentlemen and ladies occupy a tank together , and amuse themselves with rompings and various games . 
They have floating desks and tables , and they read or lunch or play chess in water that is breast deep . 
The tourist can step in and view this novel spectacle if he chooses . 
There's a poor box , and he will have to contribute . 
There are several of these big bathing houses , and you can always tell when you are near one of them by the romping noises and shouts of laughter that proceed from it . 
The next morning we wandered back up the green valley , leisurely , with the curving walls of those bare and stupendous precipices rising into the clouds before us . 
I had never seen a clean , bare precipice stretching up five thousand feet above me before , and I never shall expect to see another one . 
They exist , perhaps , but not in places where one can easily get close to them . 
This pile of stone is peculiar . 
From its base to the soaring tops of its mighty towers , all its lines and all its details vaguely suggest human architecture . 
There are rudimentary bow windows , cornices , chimneys , demarcations of stories , etc . 
One could sit and stare up there and study the features and exquisite graces of this grand structure , bit by bit , and day after day , and never weary his interest . 
The termination , toward the town , observed in profile , is the perfection of shape . 
If there were a king whose realms included the whole world , here would be the place meet and proper for such a monarch . 
He would only need to hollow it out and put in the electric light . 
He could give audience to a nation at a time under its roof . 
These perilous things are built against the perpendicular face of a cliff two or three hundred feet high . 
The peasants , of both sexes , were climbing up and down them , with heavy loads on their backs . 
It makes me shudder yet when I think of what I felt when I was clinging there between heaven and earth in the person of that proxy . 
At times the world swam around me , and I could hardly keep from letting go , so dizzying was the appalling danger . 
Many a person would have given up and descended , but I stuck to my task , and would not yield until I had accomplished it . 
I felt a just pride in my exploit , but I would not have repeated it for the wealth of the world . 
I shall break my neck yet with some such foolhardy performance , for warnings never seem to have any lasting effect on me . 
When the people of the hotel found that I had been climbing those crazy Ladders , it made me an object of considerable attention . 
Next morning , early , we drove to the Rhone valley and took the train for Visp . 
There we shouldered our knapsacks and things , and set out on foot , in a tremendous rain , up the winding gorge , toward Zermatt . 
The rain continued to pour and the torrent to boom , and we continued to enjoy both . 
While we were walking over it , along with a party of horsemen , I noticed that even the larger raindrops made it shake . 
I called Harris's attention to it , and he noticed it , too . 
We climbed up to the village of St . 
Nicholas , about half past four in the afternoon , waded ankle deep through the fertilizer juice , and stopped at a new and nice hotel close by the little church . 
We stripped and went to bed , and sent our clothes down to be baked . 
And the horde of soaked tourists did the same . 
That chaos of clothing got mixed in the kitchen , and there were consequences . 
I did not get back the same drawers I sent down , when our things came up at six fifteen I got a pair on a new plan . 
They were merely a pair of white ruffle cuffed absurdities , hitched together at the top with a narrow band , and they did not come quite down to my knees . 
They were pretty enough , but they made me feel like two people , and disconnected at that . 
The man must have been an idiot that got himself up like that , to rough it in the Swiss mountains . 
They gave my bobtail coat to somebody else , and sent me an ulster suitable for a giraffe . 
I had to tie my collar on , because there was no button behind on that foolish little shirt which I described a while ago . 
When I was dressed for dinner at six thirty , I was too loose in some places and too tight in others , and altogether I felt slovenly and ill conditioned . 
However , the people at the table d'ho te were no better off than I was they had everybody's clothes but their own on . 
There was a lovable English clergyman who did not get to the table d'ho te at all . 
His breeches had turned up missing , and without any equivalent . 
He said he was not more particular than other people , but he had noticed that a clergyman at dinner without any breeches was almost sure to excite remark . 
CHAPTER XXXVI The Fiendish Fun of Alp climbing We did not oversleep at St . 
Most church bells in the world are of poor quality , and have a harsh and rasping sound which upsets the temper and produces much sin , but the St . 
Nicholas bell is a good deal the worst one that has been contrived yet , and is peculiarly maddening in its operation . 
It is produced by the cracked pot clangor of the cheap church bells . 
Vitus's dance , and the rest the blind staggers . 
An American village at ten o'clock on a summer Sunday is the quietest and peacefulest and holiest thing in nature but it is a pretty different thing half an hour later . 
The church is always trying to get other people to reform it might not be a bad idea to reform itself a little , by way of example . 
It is still clinging to one or two things which were useful once , but which are not useful now , neither are they ornamental . 
I am not meaning to be flippant and irreverent , I am only meaning to be truthful . 
The average clergyman , in all countries and of all denominations , is a very bad reader . 
One would think he would at least learn how to read the Lord's Prayer , by and by , but it is not so . 
He races through it as if he thought the quicker he got it in , the sooner it would be answered . 
We took a tolerably early breakfast , and tramped off toward Zermatt through the reeking lanes of the village , glad to get away from that bell . 
By and by we had a fine spectacle on our right . 
It was the wall like butt end of a huge glacier , which looked down on us from an Alpine height which was well up in the blue sky . 
It was an astonishing amount of ice to be compacted together in one mass . 
We judged that if St . 
To me , that mighty glacier was very beautiful . 
I did not imagine that anybody could find fault with it but I was mistaken . 
Harris had been snarling for several days . 
All this morning he had been finding fault , straight along . 
First it was with the mud . 
He said , It ain't muddy in a Protestant canton when it rains . 
Then it was with the dogs They don't have those lop eared dogs in a Protestant canton . 
Next it was the goats You never see a goat shedding tears in a Protestant canton a goat , there , is one of the cheerfulest objects in nature . 
Next it was the chamois You never see a Protestant chamois act like one of these they take a bite or two and go but these fellows camp with you and stay . 
Then it was the guide boards In a Protestant canton you couldn't get lost if you wanted to , but you never see a guide board in a Catholic canton . 
Next about the goiter THEY talk about goiter ! I haven't seen a goiter in this whole canton that I couldn't put in a hat . 
He had growled at everything , but I judged it would puzzle him to find anything the matter with this majestic glacier . 
I intimated as much but he was ready , and said with surly discontent You ought to see them in the Protestant cantons . 
But I concealed the feeling , and asked What is the matter with this one ? Matter ? Why , it ain't in any kind of condition . 
They never take any care of a glacier here . 
The moraine has been spilling gravel around it , and got it all dirty . 
Why , man , THEY can't help that . 
That is , they WON'T . 
They could if they wanted to . 
You never see a speck of dirt on a Protestant glacier . 
Look at the Rhone glacier . 
It is fifteen miles long , and seven hundred feet think . 
If this was a Protestant glacier you wouldn't see it looking like this , I can tell you . 
What would they do with it ? They would whitewash it . 
I did not believe a word of this , but rather than have trouble I let it go for it is a waste of breath to argue with a bigot . 
About nine miles from St . 
We went forward and examined the place and saw the long tracks which her feet had made in the dirt when they darted over the verge . 
We had come exceedingly near witnessing her death . 
And now Harris's contrary nature and inborn selfishness were striking manifested . 
He has no spirit of self denial . 
He began straight off , and continued for an hour , to express his gratitude that the child was not destroyed . 
I never saw such a man . 
That was the kind of person he was just so HE was gratified , he never cared anything about anybody else . 
I had noticed that trait in him , over and over again . 
Often , of course , it was mere heedlessness , mere want of reflection . 
There is no avoiding that conclusion . 
His selfishness was sufficient to place his own gratification in being spared suffering clear before all concern for me , his friend . 
And we should have gone into Baedeker and been immortal . 
I was too much hurt to complain . 
We were approaching Zermatt consequently , we were approaching the renowned Matterhorn . 
We were expecting to recognize that mountain whenever or wherever we should run across it . 
The monarch was far away when we first saw him , but there was no such thing as mistaking him . 
He has the rare peculiarity of standing by himself he is peculiarly steep , too , and is also most oddly shaped . 
He towers into the sky like a colossal wedge , with the upper third of its blade bent a little to the left . 
So the whole bulk of this stately piece of rock , this sky cleaving monolith , is above the line of eternal snow . 
Its strange form , its august isolation , and its majestic unkinship with its own kind , make it so to speak the Napoleon of the mountain world . 
Grand , gloomy , and peculiar , is a phrase which fits it as aptly as it fitted the great captain . 
Think of a monument a mile high , standing on a pedestal two miles high ! This is what the Matterhorn is a monument . 
also cost the lives of three other men . 
The remains of Lord Douglas have never been found . 
The secret of his sepulture , like that of Moses , must remain a mystery always . 
Nicholas to Zermatt is a wonderful experience . 
Nature is built on a stupendous plan in that region . 
There is nothing tame , or cheap , or trivial it is all magnificent . 
That short valley is a picture gallery of a notable kind , for it contains no mediocrities from end to end the Creator has hung it with His masterpieces . 
We made Zermatt at three in the afternoon , nine hours out from St . 
Distance , by guide book , twelve miles by pedometer seventy two . 
We were in the heart and home of the mountain climbers , now , as all visible things testified . 
I was not equal to imagining a Girdlestone it was all I could do to even realize him , while looking straight at him at short range . 
I would rather face whole Hyde Parks of artillery than the ghastly forms of death which he has faced among the peaks and precipices of the mountains . 
There is probably no pleasure equal to the pleasure of climbing a dangerous Alp but it is a pleasure which is confined strictly to people who can find pleasure in it . 
I have not jumped to this conclusion I have traveled to it per gravel train , so to speak . 
I have thought the thing all out , and am quite sure I am right . 
They would spend the night high up among the snows , somewhere , and get up at two in the morning and finish the enterprise . 
I had a strong desire to go with them , but forced it down a feat which Mr. Girdlestone , with all his fortitude , could not do . 
Even ladies catch the climbing mania , and are unable to throw it off . 
When this lady reached the bottom , she had been on her feet twenty three hours ! Our guides , hired on the Gemmi , were already at Zermatt when we reached there . 
So there was nothing to interfere with our getting up an adventure whenever we should choose the time and the object . 
I resolved to devote my first evening in Zermatt to studying up the subject of Alpine climbing , by way of preparation . 
I read several books , and here are some of the things I found out . 
One's shoes must be strong and heavy , and have pointed hobnails in them . 
The alpenstock must be of the best wood , for if it should break , loss of life might be the result . 
One should carry an ax , to cut steps in the ice with , on the great heights . 
Finally , there must be some porters , to carry provisions , wine and scientific instruments , and also blanket bags for the party to sleep in . 
I closed my readings with a fearful adventure which Mr. Whymper once had on the Matterhorn when he was prowling around alone , five thousand feet above the town of Breil . 
He was edging his way gingerly around the corner of a precipice where the upper edge of a sharp declivity of ice glazed snow joined it . 
This declivity swept down a couple of hundred feet , into a gully which curved around and ended at a precipice eight hundred feet high , overlooking a glacier . 
His foot slipped , and he fell . 
They caught my clothes for a moment , and I fell back on to the snow with motion arrested . 
My head fortunately came the right side up , and a few frantic catches brought me to a halt , in the neck of the gully and on the verge of the precipice . 
As it was , I fell nearly two hundred feet in seven or eight bounds . 
Ten feet more would have taken me in one gigantic leaps of eight hundred feet on to the glacier below . 
The situation was sufficiently serious . 
The rocks could not be let go for a moment , and the blood was spurting out of more than twenty cuts . 
The most serious ones were in the head , and I vainly tried to close them with one hand , while holding on with the other . 
It was useless the blood gushed out in blinding jets at each pulsation . 
At last , in a moment of inspiration , I kicked out a big lump of snow and struck it as plaster on my head . 
The idea was a happy one , and the flow of blood diminished . 
Then , scrambling up , I got , not a moment too soon , to a place of safety , and fainted away . 
His wounds kept him abed some days . 
Then he got up and climbed that mountain again . 
That is the way with a true Alp climber the more fun he has , the more he wants . 
I sat silent some time , then turned to Harris and said My mind is made up . 
Something in my tone struck him and when he glanced at my eye and read what was written there , his face paled perceptibly . 
He hesitated a moment , then said Speak . 
I answered , with perfect calmness I will ascend the Riffelberg . 
If I had shot my poor friend he could not have fallen from his chair more suddenly . 
If I had been his father he could not have pleaded harder to get me to give up my purpose . 
But I turned a deaf ear to all he said . 
When he perceived at last that nothing could alter my determination , he ceased to urge , and for a while the deep silence was broken only by his sobs . 
At last he threw himself upon me in a loving embrace and exclaimed in broken tones Your Harris will never desert you . 
I cheered the noble fellow with praises , and soon his fears were forgotten and he was eager for the adventure . 
I went to bed , but not to sleep . 
No man can sleep when he is about to undertake one of these Alpine exploits . 
I tossed feverishly all night long , and was glad enough when I heard the clock strike half past eleven and knew it was time to get up for dinner . 
I rose , jaded and rusty , and went to the noon meal , where I found myself the center of interest and curiosity for the news was already abroad . 
It is not easy to eat calmly when you are a lion but it is very pleasant , nevertheless . 
The expedition consisted of persons , including the mules or , including the cows . 
As follows CHIEFS OF SERVICE SUBORDINATES Myself Veterinary Surgeon Mr. Harris Butler Guides Waiters Surgeons Footman Geologist Barber Botanist Head Cook Chaplains Assistants Barkeepers Confectionery Artist Latinist TRANSPORTATION , ETC . 
Porters Coarse Washers and Ironers Mules Fine ditto Muleteers Cows Milkers Total , men , animals . 
At that hour it began to move . 
In point of numbers and spectacular effect , it was the most imposing expedition that had ever marched from Zermatt . 
I commanded the chief guide to arrange the men and animals in single file , twelve feet apart , and lash them all together on a strong rope . 
He objected that the first two miles was a dead level , with plenty of room , and that the rope was never used except in very dangerous places . 
But I would not listen to that . 
The guide then obeyed my order . 
When the procession stood at ease , roped together , and ready to move , I never saw a finer sight . 
The burdens of the pack mules and the horns of the cows were decked with the Edelweiss and the Alpine rose . 
I and my agent were the only persons mounted . 
We were in the post of danger in the extreme rear , and tied securely to five guides apiece . 
Our armor bearers carried our ice axes , alpenstocks , and other implements for us . 
We were mounted upon very small donkeys , as a measure of safety in time of peril we could straighten our legs and stand up , and let the donkey walk from under . 
Still , I cannot recommend this sort of animal at least for excursions of mere pleasure because his ears interrupt the view . 
I and my agent possessed the regulation mountaineering costumes , but concluded to leave them behind . 
We watered the caravan at the cold stream which rushes down a trough near the end of the village , and soon afterward left the haunts of civilization behind us . 
About half past five o'clock we arrived at a bridge which spans the Visp , and after throwing over a detachment to see if it was safe , the caravan crossed without accident . 
The way now led , by a gentle ascent , carpeted with fresh green grass , to the church at Winkelmatten . 
Without stopping to examine this edifice , I executed a flank movement to the right and crossed the bridge over the Findelenbach , after first testing its strength . 
Here I deployed to the right again , and presently entered an inviting stretch of meadowland which was unoccupied save by a couple of deserted huts toward the furthest extremity . 
These meadows offered an excellent camping place . 
We pitched our tents , supped , established a proper grade , recorded the events of the day , and then went to bed . 
We rose at two in the morning and dressed by candle light . 
It was a dismal and chilly business . 
A few stars were shining , but the general heavens were overcast , and the great shaft of the Matterhorn was draped in a cable pall of clouds . 
The chief guide advised a delay he said he feared it was going to rain . 
We waited until nine o'clock , and then got away in tolerably clear weather . 
Our course led up some terrific steeps , densely wooded with larches and cedars , and traversed by paths which the rains had guttered and which were obstructed by loose stones . 
About the middle of the afternoon the seventeen guides called a halt and held a consultation . 
After consulting an hour they said their first suspicion remained intact that is to say , they believed they were lost . 
They had a strong instinct that they were lost , but they had no proofs except that they did not know where they were . 
They had met no tourists for some time , and they considered that a suspicious sign . 
Plainly we were in an ugly fix . 
The guides were naturally unwilling to go alone and seek a way out of the difficulty so we all went together . 
For better security we moved slow and cautiously , for the forest was very dense . 
We did not move up the mountain , but around it , hoping to strike across the old trail . 
Toward nightfall , when we were about tired out , we came up against a rock as big as a cottage . 
This barrier took all the remaining spirit out of the men , and a panic of fear and despair ensued . 
They moaned and wept , and said they should never see their homes and their dear ones again . 
Then they began to upbraid me for bringing them upon this fatal expedition . 
Some even muttered threats against me . 
Clearly it was no time to show weakness . 
So I made a speech in which I said that other Alp climbers had been in as perilous a position as this , and yet by courage and perseverance had escaped . 
I promised to stand by them , I promised to rescue them . 
This speech had a great effect . 
The men pitched the tents with some little show of cheerfulness , and we were snugly under cover when the night shut down . 
I now reaped the reward of my wisdom in providing one article which is not mentioned in any book of Alpine adventure but this . 
I refer to the paregoric . 
But for that beneficent drug , would have not one of those men slept a moment during that fearful night . 
But for that gentle persuader they must have tossed , unsoothed , the night through for the whiskey was for me . 
Yes , they would have risen in the morning unfitted for their heavy task . 
As it was , everybody slept but my agent and me only we and the barkeepers . 
I would not permit myself to sleep at such a time . 
I considered myself responsible for all those lives . 
I meant to be on hand and ready , in case of avalanches up there , but I did not know it then . 
We watched the weather all through that awful night , and kept an eye on the barometer , to be prepared for the least change . 
There was not the slightest change recorded by the instrument , during the whole time . 
Words cannot describe the comfort that that friendly , hopeful , steadfast thing was to me in that season of trouble . 
It was a defective barometer , and had no hand but the stationary brass pointer , but I did not know that until afterward . 
If I should be in such a situation again , I should not wish for any barometer but that one . 
All hands rose at two in the morning and took breakfast , and as soon as it was light we roped ourselves together and went at that rock . 
For some time we tried the hook rope and other means of scaling it , but without success that is , without perfect success . 
As it was , it was the chaplain . 
He took to his crutches , and I ordered the hook rope to be laid aside . 
It was too dangerous an implement where so many people are standing around . 
We were puzzled for a while then somebody thought of the ladders . 
One of these was leaned against the rock , and the men went up it tied together in couples . 
Another ladder was sent up for use in descending . 
At the end of half an hour everybody was over , and that rock was conquered . 
We gave our first grand shout of triumph . 
But the joy was short lived , for somebody asked how we were going to get the animals over . 
This was a serious difficulty in fact , it was an impossibility . 
The courage of the men began to waver immediately once more we were threatened with a panic . 
But when the danger was most imminent , we were saved in a mysterious way . 
A mule which had attracted attention from the beginning by its disposition to experiment , tried to eat a five pound can of nitroglycerin . 
This happened right alongside the rock . 
However , we were grateful , for the rock was gone . 
Its place was occupied by a new cellar , about thirty feet across , by fifteen feet deep . 
This shows , better than any estimate in figures , how high the experimenter went . 
We had nothing to do , now , but bridge the cellar and proceed on our way . 
With a cheer the men went at their work . 
I attended to the engineering , myself . 
I appointed a strong detail to cut down trees with ice axes and trim them for piers to support the bridge . 
This was a slow business , for ice axes are not good to cut wood with . 
Upon this bridge I caused a bed of boughs to be spread , and on top of the boughs a bed of earth six inches deep . 
I stretched ropes upon either side to serve as railings , and then my bridge was complete . 
A train of elephants could have crossed it in safety and comfort . 
By nightfall the caravan was on the other side and the ladders were taken up . 
The fact that we still met no tourists was a circumstance that was but too significant . 
Demoralization was spreading something must be done , and done quickly , too . 
Fortunately , I am not unfertile in expedients . 
I contrived one now which commended itself to all , for it promised well . 
He departed , and in two minutes had disappeared among the trees . 
I payed out the rope myself , while everybody watched the crawling thing with eager eyes . 
The rope crept away quite slowly , at times , at other times with some briskness . 
Twice or thrice we seemed to get the signal , and a shout was just ready to break from the men's lips when they perceived it was a false alarm . 
The huzza that went up , then , was good to hear . 
Saved ! saved ! was the word that rang out , all down the long rank of the caravan . 
We rose up and started at once . 
We found the route to be good enough for a while , but it began to grow difficult , by and by , and this feature steadily increased . 
This argued that he had not found the road , yet , but was marching to it with some peasant . 
There was nothing for us to do but plod along and this we did . 
At the end of three hours we were still plodding . 
This was not only mysterious , but exasperating . 
At three in the afternoon we were nearly dead with exhaustion and still the rope was slowly gliding out . 
The murmurs against the guide had been growing steadily , and at last they were become loud and savage . 
The men refused to proceed . 
They declared that we had been traveling over and over the same ground all day , in a kind of circle . 
They demanded that our end of the rope be made fast to a tree , so as to halt the guide until we could overtake him and kill him . 
This was not an unreasonable requirement , so I gave the order . 
As soon as the rope was tied , the Expedition moved forward with that alacrity which the thirst for vengeance usually inspires . 
Every attempt failed , and ended in crippling somebody . 
Within twenty minutes I had five men on crutches . 
Whenever a climber tried to assist himself by the rope , it yielded and let him tumble backward . 
The frequency of this result suggested an idea to me . 
The fury of the baffled Expedition exceeded all bounds . 
They even wanted to wreak their unreasoning vengeance on this innocent dumb brute . 
Even as I spoke I saw that my doom was sealed , except a miracle supervened to divert these madmen from their fell purpose . 
Yes , I was saved , and by the merciful instinct of ingratitude which nature had planted in the breast of that treacherous beast . 
The grace which eloquence had failed to work in those men's hearts , had been wrought by a laugh . 
The ram was set free and my life was spared . 
We lived to find out that that guide had deserted us as soon as he had placed a half mile between himself and us . 
As expert a woodman as I am , I had somehow failed to notice this until my attention was called to it by a hog . 
I made a note of this curious thing , as showing in a striking manner the relative difference between glacial action and the action of the hog . 
It is now a well established fact that glaciers move I consider that my observations go to show , with equal conclusiveness , that a hog in a spring does not move . 
I shall be glad to receive the opinions of other observers upon this point . 
To return , for an explanatory moment , to that guide , and then I shall be done with him . 
After leaving the ram tied to the rope , he had wandered at large a while , and then happened to run across a cow . 
Judging that a cow would naturally know more than a guide , he took her by the tail , and the result justified his judgment . 
She nibbled her leisurely way downhill till it was near milking time , then she struck for home and towed him into Zermatt . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII I Conquer the Gorner Grat We went into camp on that wild spot to which that ram had brought us . 
The men were greatly fatigued . 
So we were not lost , after all . 
This was an immense relief it lifted the weight of two such mountains from my breast . 
I immediately had the news disseminated and the map was exhibited . 
Our distresses being at an end , I now determined to rest the men in camp and give the scientific department of the Expedition a chance . 
First , I made a barometric observation , to get our altitude , but I could not perceive that there was any result . 
I might have boiled those things to rags , and never found out anything . 
I hunted up another barometer it was new and perfect . 
I boiled it half an hour in a pot of bean soup which the cooks were making . 
The dish was so greatly liked by all , that I ordered the cook to have barometer soup every day . 
It was believed that the barometer might eventually be injured , but I did not care for that . 
I had demonstrated to my satisfaction that it could not tell how high a mountain was , therefore I had no real use for it . 
Harris had had his corns tested and regulated at the government observatory in Heidelberg , and one could depend upon them with confidence . 
So I transferred the new barometer to the cooking department , to be used for the official mess . 
It was found that even a pretty fair article of soup could be made from the defective barometer so I allowed that one to be transferred to the subordinate mess . 
I next boiled the thermometer , and got a most excellent result the mercury went up to about degrees Fahrenheit . 
In the opinion of the other scientists of the Expedition , this seemed to indicate that we had attained the extraordinary altitude of two hundred thousand feet above sea level . 
Science places the line of eternal snow at about ten thousand feet above sea level . 
There was no snow where we were , consequently it was proven that the eternal snow line ceases somewhere above the ten thousand foot level and does not begin any more . 
This was an interesting fact , and one which had not been observed by any observer before . 
It was as valuable as interesting , too , since it would open up the deserted summits of the highest Alps to population and agriculture . 
The success of my last experiment induced me to try an experiment with my photographic apparatus . 
I now concluded to boil a guide . 
It might improve him , it could not impair his usefulness . 
But I was not allowed to proceed . 
Guides have no feeling for science , and this one would not consent to be made uncomfortable in its interest . 
In the midst of my scientific work , one of those needless accidents happened which are always occurring among the ignorant and thoughtless . 
A porter shot at a chamois and missed it and crippled the Latinist . 
That would have been quite another matter , for when it comes down to a question of value there is a palpable difference between a Latinist and a mule . 
On the following morning we moved on , well refreshed and in good spirits . 
I remember this day with peculiar pleasure , because it saw our road restored to us . 
Yes , we found our road again , and in quite an extraordinary way . 
We had plodded along some two hours and a half , when we came up against a solid mass of rock about twenty feet high . 
I did not need to be instructed by a mule this time . 
I was already beginning to know more than any mule in the Expedition . 
I at once put in a blast of dynamite , and lifted that rock out of the way . 
But to my surprise and mortification , I found that there had been a chalet on top of it . 
I picked up such members of the family as fell in my vicinity , and subordinates of my corps collected the rest . 
None of these poor people were injured , happily , but they were much annoyed . 
I said I had meant no harm , and hoped I had not lowered myself in his estimation by raising him a few rods in the air . 
He said there wasn't another hole like that in the mountains and he would have been right if the late mule had not tried to eat up the nitroglycerin . 
I put a hundred and sixteen men at work , and they rebuilt the chalet from its own debris in fifteen minutes . 
It was a good deal more picturesque than it was before , too . 
We also learned that we were standing at the foot of the Riffelberg proper , and that the initial chapter of our work was completed . 
The chaleteer's business consisted in furnishing refreshments to tourists . 
Pretty much may not be elegant English , but it is high time it was . 
There is no elegant word or phrase which means just what it means . 
M. T. Leaving the Expedition outside to rest , I quartered myself in the chalet , with Harris , proposing to correct my journals and scientific observations before continuing the ascent . 
I've read all your little efforts and greatly admired them , and when I heard you were here , I . 
I indicated a chair , and he sat down . 
I slowly paced the floor , pondering scientific problems , and heard this conversation GRANDSON . 
First visit to Europe ? HARRIS . 
Ah , I know what it is to you . 
A first visit ! ah , the romance of it ! I wish I could feel it again . 
H. Yes , I find it exceeds all my dreams . 
Ah , yes , proud and happy that expresses it . 
Yes yes , enjoy it it is right it is an innocent revel . 
If you would find me , you must look in the unvisited nooks and corners where others never think of going . 
H. You are a GUEST in such places ? G. S. And a welcoming one . 
How does it come ? G. S. My grandfather's name is a passport to all the courts in Europe . 
I have only to utter that name and every door is open to me . 
I flit from court to court at my own free will and pleasure , and am always welcome . 
I am as much at home in the palaces of Europe as you are among your relatives . 
I know every titled person in Europe , I think . 
I have my pockets full of invitations all the time . 
I am under promise to go to Italy , where I am to be the guest of a succession of the noblest houses in the land . 
In Berlin my life is a continued round of gaiety in the imperial palace . 
It is the same , wherever I go . 
H. It must be very pleasant . 
But it must make Boston seem a little slow when you are at home . 
G. S. Yes , of course it does . 
But I don't go home much . 
There's no life there little to feed a man's higher nature . 
Boston's very narrow , you know . 
I run across there , one a year , perhaps , when I have nothing important on hand , but I'm very soon back again . 
I spend my time in Europe . 
You map out your plans and . 
G. S. No , excuse me . 
I don't map out any plans . 
I simply follow the inclination of the day . 
I am limited by no ties , no requirements , I am not bound in any way . 
I am too old a traveler to hamper myself with deliberate purposes . 
I am simply a traveler an inveterate traveler a man of the world , in a word I can call myself by no other name . 
I do not say , I am going here , or I am going there I say nothing at all , I only act . 
For instance , next week you may find me the guest of a grandee of Spain , or you may find me off for Venice , or flitting toward Dresden . 
I am a constant surprise to people . 
They are always saying , Yes , he was in Jerusalem when we heard of him last , but goodness knows where he is now . 
Presently the Grandson rose to leave discovered he had an appointment with some Emperor , perhaps . 
Then he removed his gracious presence . 
It is a great and solemn thing to have a grandfather . 
I have not purposed to misrepresent this boy in any way , for what little indignation he excited in me soon passed and left nothing behind it but compassion . 
One cannot keep up a grudge against a vacuum . 
I have tried to repeat this lad's very words if I have failed anywhere I have at least not failed to reproduce the marrow and meaning of what he said . 
He and the innocent chatterbox whom I met on the Swiss lake are the most unique and interesting specimens of Young America I came across during my foreign tramping . 
I have made honest portraits of them , not caricatures . 
as a man of the world . 
There was something very delicious about his leaving Boston to her narrowness , unreproved and uninstructed . 
I formed the caravan in marching order , presently , and after riding down the line to see that it was properly roped together , gave the command to proceed . 
In a little while the road carried us to open , grassy land . 
We were above the troublesome forest , now , and had an uninterrupted view , straight before us , of our summit the summit of the Riffelberg . 
I had to encourage the men constantly , to keep them from giving way to their unmanly fears . 
We might have made the summit before night , but for a delay caused by the loss of an umbrella . 
The difficulties of the next morning were severe , but our courage was high , for our goal was near . 
At noon we conquered the last impediment we stood at last upon the summit , and without the loss of a single man except the mule that ate the glycerin . 
Yes , I had made the grand ascent but it was a mistake to do it in evening dress . 
The plug hats were battered , the swallow tails were fluttering rags , mud added no grace , the general effect was unpleasant and even disreputable . 
There were about seventy five tourists at the hotel mainly ladies and little children and they gave us an admiring welcome which paid us for all our privations and sufferings . 
The ascent had been made , and the names and dates now stand recorded on a stone monument there to prove it to all future tourists . 
I boiled a thermometer and took an altitude , with a most curious result THE SUMMIT WAS NOT AS HIGH AS THE POINT ON THE MOUNTAINSIDE WHERE I HAD TAKEN THE FIRST ALTITUDE . 
Suspecting that I had made an important discovery , I prepared to verify it . 
This breezy height was the summit proper so I accomplished even more than I had originally purposed to do . 
This foolhardy exploit is recorded on another stone monument . 
Thus the fact was clearly demonstrated that , ABOVE A CERTAIN POINT , THE HIGHER A POINT SEEMS TO BE , THE LOWER IT ACTUALLY IS . 
Our ascent itself was a great achievement , but this contribution to science was an inconceivably greater matter . 
Cavilers object that water boils at a lower and lower temperature the higher and higher you go , and hence the apparent anomaly . 
I answer that I do not base my theory upon what the boiling water does , but upon what a boiled thermometer says . 
You can't go behind the thermometer . 
I had a magnificent view of Monte Rosa , and apparently all the rest of the Alpine world , from that high place . 
All the circling horizon was piled high with a mighty tumult of snowy crests . 
One might have imagined he saw before him the tented camps of a beleaguering host of Brobdingnagians . 
But lonely , conspicuous , and superb , rose that wonderful upright wedge , the Matterhorn . 
The Matterhorn is always experimenting , and always gets up fine effects , too . 
In the sunset , when all the lower world is palled in gloom , it points toward heaven out of the pervading blackness like a finger of fire . 
In the sunrise well , they say it is very fine in the sunrise . 
I had the very unusual luck to catch one little momentary glimpse of the Matterhorn wholly unencumbered by clouds . 
I leveled my photographic apparatus at it without the loss of an instant , and should have got an elegant picture if my donkey had not interfered . 
Therefore , let the tourist rope himself up and go there for I have shown that with nerve , caution , and judgment , the thing can be done . 
I wish to add one remark , here in parentheses , so to speak suggested by the word snowy , which I have just used . 
We have all seen hills and mountains and levels with snow on them , and so we think we know all the aspects and effects produced by snow . 
But indeed we do not until we have seen the Alps . 
Possibly mass and distance add something at any rate , something IS added . 
As to the unimaginable splendor of it when the sun is blazing down on it well , it simply IS unimaginable . 
CHAPTER XXXIX We Travel by Glacier A guide book is a queer thing . 
The reader has just seen what a man who undertakes the great ascent from Zermatt to the Riffelberg Hotel must experience . 
Yet Baedeker makes these strange statements concerning this matter . 
The road cannot be mistaken . 
Distance from Riffelberg Hotel to the Gorner Grat , one hour and a half . 
Elevation of Zermatt above sea level , , feet . 
Elevation of Riffelberg Hotel above sea level , , feet . 
Elevation of the Gorner Grat above sea level , , feet . 
I have pretty effectually throttled these errors by sending him the following demonstrated facts . 
Distance from Zermatt to Riffelberg Hotel , days . 
The road CAN be mistaken . 
If I am the first that did it , I want the credit of it , too . 
Guides ARE necessary , for none but a native can read those finger boards . 
The estimate of the elevation of the several localities above sea level is pretty correct for Baedeker . 
He only misses it about a hundred and eighty or ninety thousand feet . 
I found my arnica invaluable . 
My men were suffering excruciatingly , from the friction of sitting down so much . 
I consider that , more than to anything else , I owe the success of our great undertaking to arnica and paregoric . 
My men are being restored to health and strength , my main perplexity , now , was how to get them down the mountain again . 
I was not willing to expose the brave fellows to the perils , fatigues , and hardships of that fearful route again if it could be helped . 
First I thought of balloons but , of course , I had to give that idea up , for balloons were not procurable . 
I thought of several other expedients , but upon consideration discarded them , for cause . 
But at last I hit it . 
I was aware that the movement of glaciers is an established fact , for I had read it in Baedeker so I resolved to take passage for Zermatt on the great Gorner Glacier . 
The next thing was , how to get down the glacier comfortably for the mule road to it was long , and winding , and wearisome . 
I set my mind at work , and soon thought out a plan . 
One looks straight down upon the vast frozen river called the Gorner Glacier , from the Gorner Grat , a sheer precipice twelve hundred feet high . 
He asked me if this method of descending the Alps had ever been tried before . 
I said no , I had not heard of an instance . 
I saw the wisdom in this idea instantly . 
No , I said , he MUST accept the appointment it was no longer an invitation , it was a command . 
He thanked me with effusion , and said that putting the thing in this form removed every objection . 
He retired , and soon returned with his umbrella , his eye flaming with gratitude and his cheeks pallid with joy . 
Just then the head guide passed along . 
I resign in his favor . 
I threw my arms around the generous fellow and said Harris , you are the noblest soul that lives . 
You shall not regret this sublime act , neither shall the world fail to know of it . 
You shall have opportunity far transcending this one , too , if I live remember that . 
I called the head guide to me and appointed him on the spot . 
But the thing aroused no enthusiasm in him . 
He did not take to the idea at all . 
He said Tie myself to an umbrella and jump over the Gorner Grat ! Excuse me , there are a great many pleasanter roads to the devil than that . 
Upon a discussion of the subject with him , it appeared that he considered the project distinctly and decidedly dangerous . 
I was about at my wits' end when it occurred to me to try it on the Latinist . 
But he declined , on the plea of inexperience , diffidence in public , lack of curiosity , and I didn't know what all . 
Another man declined on account of a cold in the head thought he ought to avoid exposure . 
Another could not jump well never COULD jump well did not believe he could jump so far without long and patient practice . 
Another was afraid it was going to rain , and his umbrella had a hole in it . 
Yes , I actually had to give that thing up while doubtless I should live to see somebody use it and take all the credit from me . 
Well , I had to go overland there was no other way . 
As a measure of economy , however , I put some of the heavier baggage on the shoreward parts , to go as slow freight . 
I waited and waited , but the glacier did not move . 
Night was coming on , the darkness began to gather still we did not budge . 
It occurred to me then , that there might be a time table in Baedeker it would be well to find out the hours of starting . 
I called for the book it could not be found . 
Bradshaw would certainly contain a time table but no Bradshaw could be found . 
Very well , I must make the best of the situation . 
I awoke about half past ten next morning , and looked around . 
We hadn't budged a peg ! At first I could not understand it then it occurred to me that the old thing must be aground . 
So I cut down some trees and rigged a spar on the starboard and another on the port side , and fooled away upward of three hours trying to spar her off . 
But it was no use . 
She was half a mile wide and fifteen or twenty miles long , and there was no telling just whereabouts she WAS aground . 
The men began to show uneasiness , too , and presently they came flying to me with ashy faces , saying she had sprung a leak . 
Nothing but my cool behavior at this critical time saved us from another panic . 
I order them to show me the place . 
They led me to a spot where a huge boulder lay in a deep pool of clear and brilliant water . 
It did look like a pretty bad leak , but I kept that to myself . 
I made a pump and set the men to work to pump out the glacier . 
We made a success of it . 
I perceived , then , that it was not a leak at all . 
Presently Baedeker was found again , and I hunted eagerly for the time table . 
The book simply said the glacier was moving all the time . 
This was satisfactory , so I shut up the book and chose a good position to view the scenery as we passed along . 
I stood there some time enjoying the trip , but at last it occurred to me that we did not seem to be gaining any on the scenery . 
I said to myself , This confounded old thing's aground again , sure , and opened Baedeker to see if I could run across any remedy for these annoying interruptions . 
I soon found a sentence which threw a dazzling light upon the matter . 
It said , The Gorner Glacier travels at an average rate of a little less than an inch a day . 
I have seldom felt so outraged . 
I have seldom had my confidence so wantonly betrayed . 
I made a small calculation One inch a day , say thirty feet a year estimated distance to Zermatt , three and one eighteenth miles . 
You can tell by the look of it . 
I said , no , I believed nothing but the extreme end of it was in a Catholic canton . 
Well , then , it's a government glacier , said Harris . 
Over here the government runs everything so everything's slow slow , and ill managed . 
But with us , everything's done by private enterprise and then there ain't much lolling around , you can depend on it . 
I wish Tom Scott could get his hands on this torpid old slab once you'd see it take a different gait from this . 
I said I was sure he would increase the speed , if there was trade enough to justify it . 
He'd MAKE trade , said Harris . 
That's the difference between governments and individuals . 
Governments don't care , individuals do . 
After a reflective pause , Harris added , A little less than an inch a day a little less than an INCH , mind you . 
Well , I'm losing my reverence for glaciers . 
I was feeling much the same way myself . 
As a means of passenger transportation , I consider the glacier a failure but as a vehicle of slow freight , I think she fills the bill . 
In the matter of putting the fine shades on that line of business , I judge she could teach the Germans something . 
I ordered the men to break camp and prepare for the land journey to Zermatt . 
Each of our scientists had a theory of his own , and put forward an animal of his own as a candidate for the skin . 
We marched into Zermatt the next day , and were received with the most lavish honors and applause . 
A document , signed and sealed by the authorities , was given to me which established and endorsed the fact that I had made the ascent of the Riffelberg . 
This I wear around my neck , and it will be buried with me when I am no more . 
CHAPTER XL Piteous Relics at Chamonix I am not so ignorant about glacial movement , now , as I was when I took passage on the Gorner Glacier . 
I have read up since . 
One writer says that the slowest glacier travels twenty give feet a year , and the fastest four hundred . 
What is a glacier ? It is easy to say it looks like a frozen river which occupies the bed of a winding gorge or gully between mountains . 
But that gives no notion of its vastness . 
Many a man , the victim of a slip or a misstep , has plunged down on of these and met his death . 
It broke under him with a crash , and he disappeared . 
The others could not see how deep he had gone , so it might be worthwhile to try and rescue him . 
A brave young guide named Michel Payot volunteered . 
Two ropes were made fast to his leather belt and he bore the end of a third one in his hand to tie to the victim in case he found him . 
He was lowered into the crevice , he descended deeper and deeper between the clear blue walls of solid ice , he approached a bend in the crack and disappeared under it . 
They still lowered him , deeper and deeper . 
Then he jerked his third cord as vigorously as he could his friends understood , and dragged him out of those icy jaws of death . 
Then they attached a bottle to a cord and sent it down two hundred feet , but it found no bottom . 
It came up covered with congelations evidence enough that even if the poor porter reached the bottom with unbroken bones , a swift death from cold was sure , anyway . 
A glacier is a stupendous , ever progressing , resistless plow . 
This is called a moraine . 
It also shoves out a moraine along each side of its course . 
Imposing as the modern glaciers are , they are not so huge as were some that once existed . 
The length of this glacier exceeded EIGHTY MILES , and it drained a basin twenty five to thirty five miles across , bounded by the highest mountains in the Alps . 
The moraines around Ivrea are of extraordinary dimensions . 
cover something like twenty square miles of country . 
It is not easy to get at a comprehension of a mass of ice like that . 
The boulders from Mont Blanc , upon the plain below Ivrea , assure us that the glacier which transported them existed for a prodigious length of time . 
Glaciers are sometimes hurried out of their characteristic snail pace . 
A marvelous spectacle is presented then . 
, and at length acquired irresistible power , tore the glaciers from their mooring on the land , and swept them over every obstacle into the sea . 
All superficial accumulations were swept away , and the bedrock was exposed . 
These things will help the reader to understand why it is that a man who keeps company with glaciers comes to feel tolerably insignificant by and by . 
The Alpine glaciers move that is granted , now , by everybody . 
But proof after proof as furnished , and the finally the world had to believe . 
The wise men not only said the glacier moved , but they timed its movement . 
They ciphered out a glacier's gait , and then said confidently that it would travel just so far in so many years . 
There is record of a striking and curious example of the accuracy which may be attained in these reckonings . 
In the ascent of Mont Blanc was attempted by a Russian and two Englishmen , with seven guides . 
The life of one of the five was saved by a long barometer which was strapped to his back it bridged the crevice and suspended him until help came . 
The alpenstock or baton of another saved its owner in a similar way . 
Three men were lost Pierre Balmat , Pierre Carrier , and Auguste Tairraz . 
They had been hurled down into the fathomless great deeps of the crevice . 
Forbes , the English geologist , had made frequent visits to the Mont Blanc region , and had given much attention to the disputed question of the movement of glaciers . 
A dull , slow journey a movement imperceptible to any eye but it was proceeding , nevertheless , and without cessation . 
It was a journey which a rolling stone would make in a few seconds the lofty point of departure was visible from the village below in the valley . 
The prediction cut curiously close to the truth forty one years after the catastrophe , the remains were cast forth at the foot of the glacier . 
I find an interesting account of the matter in the HISTOIRE DU MONT BLANC , by Stephen d'Arve . 
It was a sack filled with human remains which he had gathered from the orifice of a crevice in the Glacier des Bossons . 
He conjectured that these were remains of the victims of the catastrophe of , and a minute inquest , immediately instituted by the local authorities , soon demonstrated the correctness of his supposition . 
The contents of the sack were spread upon a long table , and officially inventoried , as follows Portions of three human skulls . 
Several tufts of black and blonde hair . 
A human jaw , furnished with fine white teeth . 
A forearm and hand , all the fingers of the latter intact . 
The flesh was white and fresh , and both the arm and hand preserved a degree of flexibility in the articulations . 
The ring finger had suffered a slight abrasion , and the stain of the blood was still visible and unchanged after forty one years . 
A left foot , the flesh white and fresh . 
The guide said that the mutton had no odor when he took it from the glacier an hour's exposure to the sun had already begun the work of decomposition upon it . 
Persons were called for , to identify these poor pathetic relics , and a touching scene ensured . 
These aged men entered and approached the table . 
He said Pierre Balmat was fair he wore a straw hat . 
This bit of skull , with the tuft of blond hair , was his this is his hat . 
Pierre Carrier was very dark this skull was his , and this felt hat . 
There is something weirdly pathetic about the picture of that white haired veteran greeting with his loving handshake this friend who had been dead forty years . 
Time had gone on , in the one case it had stood still in the other . 
Couttet identified other relics This hat belonged to Auguste Tairraz . 
He carried the cage of pigeons which we proposed to set free upon the summit . 
Here is the wing of one of those pigeons . 
And here is the fragment of my broken baton it was by grace of that baton that my life was saved . 
A diligent search was made , but without result . 
However , another search was instituted a year later , and this had better success . 
Many fragments of clothing which had belonged to the lost guides were discovered also , part of a lantern , and a green veil with blood stains on it . 
The hand and arm were alone there was no trunk . 
After being removed from the ice the flesh tints quickly faded out and the rosy nails took on the alabaster hue of death . 
This was the third RIGHT hand found therefore , all three of the lost men were accounted for , beyond cavil or question . 
Hamel was the Russian gentleman of the party which made the ascent at the time of the famous disaster . 
Are you from Chamonix , Monsieur Balmat ? Yes , sir . 
Haven't they found the bodies of my three guides , yet ? I am Dr . 
Alas , no , monsieur . 
Well , you'll find them , sooner or later . 
Yes , it is the opinion of Dr . 
Forbes and Mr. Tyndall , that the glacier will sooner or later restore to us the remains of the unfortunate victims . 
Without a doubt , without a doubt . 
And it will be a great thing for Chamonix , in the matter of attracting tourists . 
You can get up a museum with those remains that will draw ! This savage idea has not improved the odor of Dr . 
Hamel's name in Chamonix by any means . 
But after all , the man was sound on human nature . 
His idea was conveyed to the public officials of Chamonix , and they gravely discussed it around the official council table . 
A close watch had to be kept upon all the poor remnants and fragments , to prevent embezzlement . 
A few accessory odds and ends were sold . 
The details of it are scarcely known in America . 
To the vast majority of readers they are not known at all . 
Mr. Whymper's account is the only authentic one . 
This was Mr. Whymper's NINTH attempt during a series of years , to vanquish that steep and stubborn pillar or rock it succeeded , the other eight were failures . 
No man had ever accomplished the ascent before , though the attempts had been numerous . 
WHYMPER'S NARRATIVE We started from Zermatt on the th of July , at half past five , on a brilliant and perfectly cloudless morning . 
and his two sons Lord F. Douglas , Mr. Hadow , Rev . 
Mr. Hudson , and I. To insure steady motion , one tourist and one native walked together . 
The youngest Taugwalder fell to my share . 
On the first day we did not intend to ascend to any great height , and we mounted , accordingly , very leisurely . 
Before twelve o'clock we had found a good position for the tent , at a height of eleven thousand feet . 
We assembled together before dawn on the th and started directly it was light enough to move . 
One of the young Taugwalders returned to Zermatt . 
In a few minutes we turned the rib which had intercepted the view of the eastern face from our tent platform . 
The whole of this great slope was now revealed , rising for three thousand feet like a huge natural staircase . 
For the greater part of the way there was no occasion , indeed , for the rope , and sometimes Hudson led , sometimes myself . 
We had now arrived at the foot of that part which , seen from the Riffelberg , seems perpendicular or overhanging . 
We could no longer continue on the eastern side . 
For a little distance we ascended by snow upon the ARE TE that is , the ridge then turned over to the right , or northern side . 
The work became difficult , and required caution . 
These were at times covered with a thin film of ice . 
It was a place which any fair mountaineer might pass in safety . 
We bore away nearly horizontally for about four hundred feet , then ascended directly toward the summit for about sixty feet , then doubled back to the ridge which descends toward Zermatt . 
A long stride round a rather awkward corner brought us to snow once more . 
That last doubt vanished ! The Matterhorn was ours ! Nothing but two hundred feet of easy snow remained to be surmounted . 
The higher we rose , the more intense became the excitement . 
The slope eased off , at length we could be detached , and Croz and I , dashed away , ran a neck and neck race , which ended in a dead heat . 
At P. M. , the world was at our feet , and the Matterhorn was conquered ! The others arrived . 
Croz now took the tent pole , and planted it in the highest snow . 
It made a poor flag , and there was no wind to float it out , yet it was seen all around . 
They saw it at Zermatt at the Riffel in the Val Tournanche . 
We remained on the summit for one hour One crowded hour of glorious life . 
It passed away too quickly , and we began to prepare for the descent . 
Hudson and I consulted as to the best and safest arrangement of the party . 
I suggested to Hudson that we should attach a rope to the rocks on our arrival at the difficult bit , and hold it as we descended , as an additional protection . 
He approved the idea , but it was not definitely decided that it should be done . 
They requested me to write them down , and moved off while it was being done . 
A few minutes afterward I tied myself to young Peter , ran down after the others , and caught them just as they were commencing the descent of the difficult part . 
Great care was being taken . 
Only one man was moving at a time when he was firmly planted the next advanced , and so on . 
They had not , however , attached the additional rope to rocks , and nothing was said about it . 
The suggestion was not made for my own sake , and I am not sure that it ever occurred to me again . 
The boy was reproved for telling idle stories he was right , nevertheless , and this was what he saw . 
As far as I know , no one was actually descending . 
I heard one startled exclamation from Croz , then saw him and Mr. Hadow flying downward in another moment Hudson was dragged from his steps , and Lord Douglas immediately after him . 
All this was the work of a moment . 
We held but the rope broke midway between Taugwalder and Lord Francis Douglas . 
For a few seconds we saw our unfortunate companions sliding downward on their backs , and spreading out their hands , endeavoring to save themselves . 
From the moment the rope broke it was impossible to help them . 
After a time we were able to do that which should have been done at first , and fixed rope to firm rocks , in addition to being tied together . 
These ropes were cut from time to time , and were left behind . 
We frequently looked , but in vain , for traces of our unfortunate companions we bent over the ridge and cried to them , but no sound returned . 
Such is Mr. Whymper's graphic and thrilling narrative . 
He adds that if Taugwalder had had the disposition to cut the rope , he would not have had time to do it , the accident was so sudden and unexpected . 
Lord Douglas' body has never been found . 
It probably lodged upon some inaccessible shelf in the face of the mighty precipice . 
Lord Douglas was a youth of nineteen . 
The three other victims fell nearly four thousand feet , and their bodies lay together upon the glacier when found by Mr. Whymper and the other searchers the next morning . 
Their graves are beside the little church in Zermatt . 
CHAPTER XLII Chillon has a Nice , Roomy Dungeon Switzerland is simply a large , humpy , solid rock , with a thin skin of grass stretched over it . 
Consequently , they do not dig graves , they blast them out with power and fuse . 
They cannot afford to have large graveyards , the grass skin is too circumscribed and too valuable . 
It is all required for the support of the living . 
The graveyard in Zermatt occupies only about one eighth of an acre . 
As I understand it , a family owns a grave , just as it owns a house . 
A man dies and leaves his house to his son and at the same time , this dead father succeeds to his own father's grave . 
He moves out of the house and into the grave , and his predecessor moves out of the grave and into the cellar of the chapel . 
I saw a black box lying in the churchyard , with skull and cross bones painted on it , and was told that this was used in transferring remains to the cellar . 
In that cellar the bones and skulls of several hundred of former citizens were compactly corded up . 
They made a pile eighteen feet long , seven feet high , and eight feet wide . 
An English gentleman who had lived some years in this region , said it was the cradle of compulsory education . 
But he said that the English idea that compulsory education would reduce bastardy and intemperance was an error it has not that effect . 
He said there was more seduction in the Protestant than in the Catholic cantons , because the confessional protected the girls . 
We left Zermatt in a wagon and in a rain storm , too for St . 
Nicholas about ten o'clock one morning . 
Again we passed between those grass clad prodigious cliffs , specked with wee dwellings peeping over at us from velvety green walls ten and twelve hundred feet high . 
It did not seem possible that the imaginary chamois even could climb those precipices . 
Lovers on opposite cliffs probably kiss through a spy glass , and correspond with a rifle . 
Now here , by our St . 
Nicholas road , was a grave , and it had a tragic story . 
We throw a halo of heroism around the life of the soldier and the sailor , because of the deadly dangers they are facing all the time . 
But we are not used to looking upon farming as a heroic occupation . 
This is because we have not lived in Switzerland . 
This was on a Sunday . 
Nicholas we struck out for Visp or Vispach on foot . 
The rain storms had been at work during several days , and had done a deal of damage in Switzerland and Savoy . 
We came to one place where a stream had changed its course and plunged down a mountain in a new place , sweeping everything before it . 
Two poor but precious farms by the roadside were ruined . 
One was washed clear away , and the bed rock exposed the other was buried out of sight under a tumbled chaos of rocks , gravel , mud , and rubbish . 
The resistless might of water was well exemplified . 
Some saplings which had stood in the way were bent to the ground , stripped clean of their bark , and buried under rocky debris . 
The road had been swept away , too . 
But there was nobody down there . 
They take exceedingly good care of their rivers in Switzerland and other portions of Europe . 
They wall up both banks with slanting solid stone masonry so that from end to end of these rivers the banks look like the wharves at St . 
Louis and other towns on the Mississippi River . 
It was during this walk from St . 
The guide at the head of the line cut imaginary steps , in a laborious and painstaking way , and not a monkey budged till the step above was vacated . 
In Nevada I used to see the children play at silver mining . 
I knew one small chap who always insisted on playing BOTH of these parts and he carried his point . 
He would tumble into the shaft and die , and then come to the surface and go back after his own remains . 
It is the smartest boy that gets the hero part everywhere he is head guide in Switzerland , head miner in Nevada , head bull fighter in Spain , etc . 
but I knew a preacher's son , seven years old , who once selected a part for himself compared to which those just mentioned are tame and unimpressive . 
Finally the little fellow said I've tried everything , and they won't any of them do . 
What CAN I play ? I hardly know , Jimmy but you MUST play only things that are suitable to the Sabbath day . 
Next Sunday the preacher stepped softly to a back room door to see if the children were rightly employed . 
The Reverend took in the situation alas , they were playing the Expulsion from Eden ! Yet he found one little crumb of comfort . 
What that meant was very plain HE WAS IMPERSONATING THE DEITY ! Think of the guileless sublimity of that idea . 
We reached Vispach at P. M. , only about seven hours out from St . 
So we must have made fully a mile and a half an hour , and it was all downhill , too , and very muddy at that . 
She was the landlord's daughter . 
And I remember that the only native match to her I saw in all Europe was the young daughter of the landlord of a village inn in the Black Forest . 
It was NOT aware of it , though . 
It did not do it on purpose . 
An English friend called my attention to this lapse , and cut out the reprehensible paragraph for me . 
Think of encountering a grin like this on the face of that grim journal ERRATUM . 
We are requested by Reuter's Telegram Company to correct an erroneous announcement made in their Brisbane telegram of the d inst . 
, published in our impression of the th inst . 
, stating that Lady Kennedy had given birth to twins , the eldest being a son . 
The Company explain that the message they received contained the words Governor of Queensland , TWINS FIRST SON . 
Being , however , subsequently informed that Sir Arthur Kennedy was unmarried and that there must be some mistake , a telegraphic repetition was at once demanded . 
and shows that the words really telegraphed by Reuter's agent were Governor Queensland TURNS FIRST SOD , alluding to the Maryborough Gympic Railway in course of construction . 
The words in italics were mutilated by the telegraph in transmission from Australia , and reaching the company in the form mentioned above gave rise to the mistake . 
I am glad I did that , for it took away some of the pain I was feeling on the prisoner's account . 
His dungeon was a nice , cool , roomy place , and I cannot see why he should have been dissatisfied with it . 
If he had been imprisoned in a St . 
Next , we took the train and went to Martigny , on the way to Mont Blanc . 
Next morning we started , about eight o'clock , on foot . 
We had plenty of company , in the way of wagon loads and mule loads of tourists and dust . 
This scattering procession of travelers was perhaps a mile long . 
The road was uphill interminable uphill and tolerably steep . 
We could dodge among the bushes , and have the relief of shade , but those people could not . 
They paid for a conveyance , and to get their money's worth they rode . 
We went by the way of the Te te Noir , and after we reached high ground there was no lack of fine scenery . 
There was a liberal allowance of pretty waterfalls , too , on the Te te Noir route . 
With every step , after that , this stately dome rose higher and higher into the blue sky , and at last seemed to occupy the zenith . 
Some of Mont Blanc's neighbors bare , light brown , steeplelike rocks were very peculiarly shaped . 
The faint pinks and greens were peculiarly beautiful none of the colors were deep , they were the lightest shades . 
We sat down to study and enjoy this singular spectacle . 
We made the tramp from Martigny to Argentie re in eight hours . 
We beat all the mules and wagons we didn't usually do that . 
We hired a sort of open baggage wagon for the trip down the valley to Chamonix , and then devoted an hour to dining . 
This gave the driver time to get drunk . 
He had a friend with him , and this friend also had had time to get drunk . 
Behold ! Down came his whip , and away we clattered . 
I never had such a shaking up in my life . 
The recent flooding rains had washed the road clear away in places , but we never stopped , we never slowed down for anything . 
We tore right along , over rocks , rubbish , gullies , open fields sometimes with one or two wheels on the ground , but generally with none . 
He spoke in French , and punctuated with hiccoughs . 
His friend was French , too , but spoke in German using the same system of punctuation , however . 
The friend called himself the Captain of Mont Blanc , and wanted us to make the ascent with him . 
He said he had made more ascents than any other man forty seven and his brother had made thirty seven . 
His brother was the best guide in the world , except himself but he , yes , observe him well he was the Captain of Mont Blanc that title belonged to none other . 
The king was as good as his word he overtook that long procession of tourists and went by it like a hurricane . 
It was altogether the livest looking street we had seen in any village on the continent . 
A telescope stood in the yard , with its huge barrel canted up toward the lustrous evening star . 
The long porch of the hotel was populous with tourists , who sat in shawls and wraps under the vast overshadowing bulk of Mont Blanc , and gossiped or meditated . 
Its radiance was strong and clear , but at the same time it was singularly soft , and spiritual , and benignant . 
No , it was not our harsh , aggressive , realistic daylight it seemed properer to an enchanted land or to heaven . 
I had seen moonlight and daylight together before , but I had not seen daylight and black night elbow to elbow before . 
At least I had not seen the daylight resting upon an object sufficiently close at hand , before , to make the contrast startling and at war with nature . 
The top of one pinnacle took the shapely , clean cut form of a rabbit's head , in the inkiest silhouette , while it rested against the moon . 
The unillumined peaks and minarets , hovering vague and phantom like above us while the others were painfully white and strong with snow and moonlight , made a peculiar effect . 
But when the moon , having passed the line of pinnacles , was hidden behind the stupendous white swell of Mont Blanc , the masterpiece of the evening was flung on the canvas . 
After a while , radiating bars vast broadening fan shaped shadows grew up and stretched away to the zenith from behind the mountain . 
It was a spectacle to take one's breath , for the wonder of it , and the sublimity . 
There is no simile for it , for nothing is like it . 
One falls shorter of the truth than that , sometimes , in trying to explain mysteries to the little people . 
I could have found out the cause of this awe compelling miracle by inquiring , for it is not infrequent at Mont Blanc , but I did not wish to know . 
We have not the reverent feeling for the rainbow that a savage has , because we know how it is made . 
We have lost as much as we gained by prying into the matter . 
These men were in the costumes of guides and porters , and were there to be hired . 
The office of that great personage , the Guide in Chief of the Chamonix Guild of Guides , was near by . 
This guild is a close corporation , and is governed by strict laws . 
There are many excursion routes , some dangerous and some not , some that can be made safely without a guide , and some that cannot . 
The bureau determines these things . 
Where it decides that a guide is necessary , you are forbidden to go without one . 
Neither are you allowed to be a victim of extortion the law states what you are to pay . 
to twenty dollars , according to the distance traversed and the nature of the ground . 
A guide's fee for taking a person to the summit of Mont Blanc and back , is twenty dollars and he earns it . 
The porter's fee for the same trip is ten dollars . 
We went into the Chief's office . 
There were maps of mountains on the walls also one or two lithographs of celebrated guides , and a portrait of the scientist De Saussure . 
In glass cases were some labeled fragments of boots and batons , and other suggestive relics and remembrances of casualties on Mount Blanc . 
In a book was a record of all the ascents which have ever been made , beginning with Nos . 
and being those of Jacques Balmat and De Saussure , in , and ending with No. , which wasn't cold yet . 
He looked very happy when he got his document in fact , he spoke up and said he WAS happy . 
I was very much offended . 
For two cents I would have done these things , too but nobody offered me two cents . 
I tried to move that German's feelings , but it could not be done he would not give me his diploma , neither would he sell it to me . 
I resolved , then , that I would do all I could to injure Mont Blanc . 
In the record book was a list of all the fatal accidents which happened on the mountain . 
It began with the one in when the Russian Dr . 
Hamel's three guides were lost in a crevice of the glacier , and it recorded the delivery of the remains in the valley by the slow moving glacier forty one years later . 
The latest catastrophe bore the date . 
We stepped out and roved about the village awhile . 
In front of the little church was a monument to the memory of the bold guide Jacques Balmat , the first man who ever stood upon the summit of Mont Blanc . 
He made that wild trip solitary and alone . 
He accomplished the ascent a number of times afterward . 
A stretch of nearly half a century lay between his first ascent and his last one . 
At the ripe old age of seventy two he was climbing around a corner of a lofty precipice of the Pic du Midi nobody with him when he slipped and fell . 
So he died in the harness . 
He had grown very avaricious in his old age , and used to go off stealthily to hunt for non existent and impossible gold among those perilous peaks and precipices . 
He was on a quest of that kind when he lost his life . 
Balmat and De Saussure discovered Mont Blanc so to speak but it was Smith who made it a paying property . 
His articles in BLACKWOOD and his lectures on Mont Blanc in London advertised it and made people as anxious to see it as if it owed them money . 
As we strolled along the road we looked up and saw a red signal light glowing in the darkness of the mountainside . 
It seemed but a trifling way up perhaps a hundred yards , a climb of ten minutes . 
I would sooner not smoke at all , than take all that trouble for a light . 
Even in the daytime the foreshadowing effect of this mountain's close proximity creates curious deceptions . 
But he couldn't , for the difference between the two altitudes is more than three thousand feet . 
It looks impossible , from below , that this can be true , but it is true , nevertheless . 
While strolling around , we kept the run of the moon all the time , and we still kept an eye on her after we got back to the hotel portico . 
This daring theory had been received with frantic scorn by some of my fellow scientists , and with an eager silence by others . 
Among the former I may mention Prof . 
H y and among the latter Prof . 
Such is professional jealousy a scientist will never show any kindness for a theory which he did not start himself . 
There is no feeling of brotherhood among these people . 
Indeed , they always resent it when I call them brother . 
To show how far their ungenerosity can carry them , I will state that I offered to let Prof . 
H y publish my great theory as his own discovery I even begged him to do it I even proposed to print it myself as his theory . 
Instead of thanking me , he said that if I tried to fasten that theory on him he would sue me for slander . 
I knew she could rise no higher , and I was right . 
She sailed behind all the peaks and never succeeded in hoisting her disk above a single one of them . 
It was curious to see a good strong shadow of an earthly object cast upon so intangible a field as the atmosphere . 
I was dazed , dreamy , wretched , seedy , unrefreshed . 
I recognized the occasion of all this it was that torrent . 
In the mountain villages of Switzerland , and along the roads , one has always the roar of the torrent in his ears . 
He imagines it is music , and he thinks poetic things about it he lies in his comfortable bed and is lulled to sleep by it . 
He cannot manage to account for these things . 
Day after day he feels as if he had spent his nights in a sleeping car . 
It actually takes him weeks to find out that it is those persecuting torrents that have been making all the mischief . 
It is time for him to get out of Switzerland , then , for as soon as he has discovered the cause , the misery is magnified several fold . 
The roar of the torrent is maddening , then , for his imagination is assisting the physical pain it inflicts is exquisite . 
When he finds he is approaching one of those streams , his dread is so lively that he is disposed to fly the track and avoid the implacable foe . 
Eight or nine months after the distress of the torrents had departed from me , the roar and thunder of the streets of Paris brought it all back again . 
I moved to the sixth story of the hotel to hunt for peace . 
I had to wait for him to get through , of course . 
Five long , long minutes he smoothly shuffled away a pause followed , then something fell with a thump on the floor . 
I said to myself There he is pulling off his boots thank heavens he is done . 
I said Good , he has pulled off his other boot NOW he is done . 
The next moment he was shuffling again . 
I got my gun and stole up there . 
The fellow was in the midst of an acre of sprawling boots , and he had a boot in his hand , shuffling it no , I mean POLISHING it . 
He was the Boots of the hotel , and was attending to business . 
It was brilliant with sunshine , and the vast smooth bulge seemed hardly five hundred yards away . 
While I looked , a woman rode by the house on a mule , and I saw her with sharp distinctness I could have described her dress . 
I saw her nod to the people of the house , and rein up her mule , and put her hand up to shield her eyes from the sun . 
I was not used to telescopes in fact , I had never looked through a good one before it seemed incredible to me that this woman could be so far away . 
I tried the telescope again , and again everything was vivid . 
The strong black shadows of the mule and the woman were flung against the side of the house , and I saw the mule's silhouette wave its ears . 
Presently I had a superb idea . 
The telescoper assured me that it could . 
I then asked him how much I owed him for as far as I had got ? He said , one franc . 
I asked him how much it would cost to make the entire ascent ? Three francs . 
I at once determined to make the entire ascent . 
But first I inquired if there was any danger ? He said no not by telescope said he had taken a great many parties to the summit , and never lost a man . 
I asked what he would charge to let my agent go with me , together with such guides and porters as might be necessary . 
I then said we would start immediately . 
I told the man to slant his machine in the proper direction and let us be off . 
But I pulled my pluck together and pushed on . 
We passed the glacier safely and began to mount the steeps beyond , with great alacrity . 
We rested a moment , and then began to mount with speed . 
Within three minutes we caught sight of the party ahead of us , and stopped to observe them . 
We saw them sink down in the snow and rest , and drink something from a bottle . 
After a while they moved on , and as they approached the final short dash of the home stretch we closed up on them and joined them . 
Overcome by the scene , we all raised a triumphant , tremendous shout , in unison . 
This pleased him very much , for of course we could have stepped back to the summit and put him to the trouble of bringing us home if we wanted to . 
So much for his prejudice against people's nationality . 
However , we worried him enough to make him remember us and our ascent for some time . 
He even said , once , that he wished there was a lunatic asylum in Chamonix . 
This shows that he really had fears that we were going to drive him mad . 
It was what we intended to do , but lack of time defeated it . 
I cannot venture to advise the reader one way or the other , as to ascending Mont Blanc . 
I say only this if he is at all timid , the enjoyments of the trip will hardly make up for the hardships and sufferings he will have to endure . 
While I do not advise such a person to attempt the ascent , I do not advise him against it . 
But if he elects to attempt it , let him be warily careful of two things chose a calm , clear day and do not pay the telescope man in advance . 
There are dark stories of his getting advance payers on the summit and then leaving them there to rot . 
A frightful tragedy was once witnessed through the Chamonix telescopes . 
Think of questions and answers like these , on an inquest CORONER . 
You saw deceased lose his life ? WITNESS . 
C. Where was he , at the time ? W. Close to the summit of Mont Blanc . 
C. Where were you ? W. In the main street of Chamonix . 
C. What was the distance between you ? W. A LITTLE OVER FIVE MILES , as the bird flies . 
This accident occurred in , a year and a month after the disaster on the Matterhorn . 
Three adventurous English gentlemen , of great experience in mountain climbing , made up their minds to ascend Mont Blanc without guides or porters . 
All endeavors to dissuade them from their project failed . 
Powerful telescopes are numerous in Chamonix . 
All the morning the tubes remained directed toward the mountain heights , each with its anxious group around it but the white deserts were vacant . 
Sir George Young and his brothers James and Albert . 
They disappeared in the Corridor , and were lost to sight during an hour . 
Then they reappeared , and were presently seen standing together upon the extreme summit of Mont Blanc . 
So , all was well . 
They remained a few minutes on that highest point of land in Europe , a target for all the telescopes , and were then seen to begin descent . 
During two hours and a half they watched the two busying themselves over the extended form of their brother , who seemed entirely inert . 
Chamonix's affairs stood still everybody was in the street , all interest was centered upon what was going on upon that lofty and isolated stage five miles away . 
Finally the two one of them walking with great difficulty were seen to begin descent , abandoning the third , who was no doubt lifeless . 
Their movements were followed , step by step , until they reached the Corridor and disappeared behind its ridge . 
Before they had had time to traverse the Corridor and reappear , twilight was come , and the power of the telescope was at an end . 
The oldest guides expressed the opinion that they could not succeed that all the chances were that they would lose their lives . 
Yet those brave men did succeed . 
They reached the Grands Mulets in safety . 
Even the fearful shock which their nerves had sustained was not sufficient to overcome their coolness and courage . 
This was considered a new imprudence , as the number was too few for the service required . 
Another relief party presently arrived at the cabin on the Grands Mulets and quartered themselves there to await events . 
Half a dozen of their number set out , then early in the afternoon , to seek and succor Sir George and his guides . 
The persons remaining at the cabin saw these disappear , and then ensued another distressing wait . 
Four hours passed , without tidings . 
Then at five o'clock another relief , consisting of three guides , set forward from the cabin . 
However , a couple of hours later , at P. M. , the anxious solicitude came to an end , and happily . 
A bugle note was heard , and a cluster of black specks was distinguishable against the snows of the upper heights . 
The watchers counted these specks eagerly fourteen nobody was missing . 
An hour and a half later they were all safe under the roof of the cabin . 
They had brought the corpse with them . 
Sir George Young tarried there but a few minutes , and then began the long and troublesome descent from the cabin to Chamonix . 
He probably reached there about two or three o'clock in the morning , after having been afoot among the rocks and glaciers during two days and two nights . 
His endurance was equal to his daring . 
The corpse , upon being viewed at the inquest , showed no bruises , and it was some time before the surgeons discovered that the neck was broken . 
One of the surviving brothers had sustained some unimportant injuries , but the other had suffered no hurt at all . 
How these men could fall two thousand feet , almost perpendicularly , and live afterward , is a most strange and unaccountable thing . 
A great many women have made the ascent of Mont Blanc . 
An English girl , Miss Stratton , conceived the daring idea , two or three years ago , of attempting the ascent in the middle of winter . 
She tried it and she succeeded . 
The first woman who ascended Mont Blanc was a girl aged twenty two Mlle . 
Nobody was with her but her sweetheart , and he was not a guide . 
The sex then took a rest for about thirty years , when a Mlle . 
In Chamonix I picked up a rude old lithograph of that day which pictured her in the act . 
However , I value it less as a work of art than as a fashion plate . 
Miss d'Angeville put on a pair of men's pantaloons to climb it , which was wise but she cramped their utility by adding her petticoat , which was idiotic . 
One of the mournfulest calamities which men's disposition to climb dangerous mountains has resulted in , happened on Mont Blanc in September . 
M. D'Arve tells the story briefly in his HISTOIRE DU MONT BLANC . 
In the next chapter I will copy its chief features . 
Three of the party were tourists Messrs . 
Randall and Bean , Americans , and Mr. George Corkindale , a Scotch gentleman there were three guides and five porters . 
The cabin on the Grands Mulets was reached that day the ascent was resumed early the next morning , September th . 
The day was fine and clear , and the movements of the party were observed through the telescopes of Chamonix at two o'clock in the afternoon they were seen to reach the summit . 
A few minutes later they were seen making the first steps of the descent then a cloud closed around them and hid them from view . 
Eight hours passed , the cloud still remained , night came , no one had returned to the Grands Mulets . 
Sylvain Couttet , keeper of the cabin there , suspected a misfortune , and sent down to the valley for help . 
A detachment of guides went up , but by the time they had made the tedious trip and reached the cabin , a raging storm had set in . 
They had to wait nothing could be attempted in such a tempest . 
The wild storm lasted MORE THAN A WEEK , without ceasing but on the th , Couttet , with several guides , left the cabin and succeeded in making the ascent . 
Couttet moved a few steps further and discovered five more bodies . 
The eleventh corpse that of a porter was not found , although diligent search was made for it . 
I have made the ascent of Mont Blanc , with ten persons eight guides , and Mr. Corkindale and Mr. Randall . 
We reached the summit at half past . 
Immediately after quitting it , we were enveloped in clouds of snow . 
We passed the night in a grotto hollowed in the snow , which afforded us but poor shelter , and I was ill all night . 
The snow falls heavily and without interruption . 
The guides take no rest . 
I have no longer any hope of descending . 
They were so near to life and safety as that , and did not suspect it . 
The thought of this gives the sharpest pang that the tragic story conveys . 
Perhaps this note book will be found and sent to you . 
We have nothing to eat , my feet are already frozen , and I am exhausted I have strength to write only a few words more . 
I have left means for C's education I know you will employ them wisely . 
I die with faith in God , and with loving thoughts of you . 
We shall meet again , in Heaven . 
I think of you always . 
It is the way of the Alps to deliver death to their victims with a merciful swiftness , but here the rule failed . 
These men suffered the bitterest death that has been recorded in the history of those mountains , freighted as that history is with grisly tragedies . 
The road led sharply uphill , all the way , through grass and flowers and woods , and was a pleasant walk , barring the fatigue of the climb . 
From the hotel we could view the huge glacier at very close range . 
After a rest we followed down a path which had been made in the steep inner frontage of the moraine , and stepped upon the glacier itself . 
One of the shows of the place was a tunnel like cavern , which had been hewn in the glacier . 
The proprietor of this tunnel took candles and conducted us into it . 
It was three or four feet wide and about six feet high . 
Its walls of pure and solid ice emitted a soft and rich blue light that produced a lovely effect , and suggested enchanted caves , and that sort of thing . 
By and by he came back and pretended that that was what he had gone behind there for . 
We believed as much of that as we wanted to . 
I do not consider artillery necessary , yet it would not be unadvisable to take it along , if convenient . 
The journey , going and coming , is about three miles and a half , three of which are on level ground . 
We made it in less than a day , but I would counsel the unpracticed if not pressed for time to allow themselves two . 
Nothing is gained in the Alps by over exertion nothing is gained by crowding two days' work into one for the poor sake of being able to boast of the exploit afterward . 
It will be found much better , in the long run , to do the thing in two days , and then subtract one of them from the narrative . 
This saves fatigue , and does not injure the narrative . 
All the more thoughtful among the Alpine tourists do this . 
We now called upon the Guide in Chief , and asked for a squadron of guides and porters for the ascent of the Montanvert . 
This idiot glared at us , and said You don't need guides and porters to go to the Montanvert . 
What do we need , then ? Such as YOU ? an ambulance ! I was so stung by this brutal remark that I took my custom elsewhere . 
Betimes , next morning , we had reached an altitude of five thousand feet above the level of the sea . 
Here we camped and breakfasted . 
There was a cabin there the spot is called the Caillet and a spring of ice cold water . 
On the door of the cabin was a sign , in French , to the effect that One may here see a living chamois for fifty centimes . 
We did not invest what we wanted was to see a dead one . 
We descended a ticklish path in the steep side of the moraine , and invaded the glacier . 
There were tourists of both sexes scattered far and wide over it , everywhere , and it had the festive look of a skating rink . 
The Empress Josephine came this far , once . 
Her successor visited Chamonix later , but in far different style . 
It was seven weeks after the first fall of the Empire , and poor Marie Louise , ex Empress was a fugitive . 
The crevices in the ice yawned deep and blue and mysterious , and it made one nervous to traverse them . 
The huge round waves of ice were slippery and difficult to climb , and the chances of tripping and sliding down them and darting into a crevice were too many to be comfortable . 
In the bottom of a deep swale between two of the biggest of the ice waves , we found a fraud who pretended to be cutting steps to insure the safety of tourists . 
Then he sat down again , to doze till the next party should come along . 
He had collected blackmail from two or three hundred people already , that day , but had not chipped out ice enough to impair the glacier perceptibly . 
I have heard of a good many soft sinecures , but it seems to me that keeping toll bridge on a glacier is the softest one I have encountered yet . 
That was a blazing hot day , and it brought a persistent and persecuting thirst with it . 
These fountains had such an alluring look that I often stretched myself out when I was not thirsty and dipped my face in and drank till my teeth ached . 
Everywhere among the Swiss mountains we had at hand the blessing not to be found in Europe EXCEPT in the mountains of water capable of quenching thirst . 
Everywhere in the Swiss highlands brilliant little rills of exquisitely cold water went dancing along by the roadsides , and my comrade and I were always drinking and always delivering our deep gratitude . 
But in Europe everywhere except in the mountains , the water is flat and insipid beyond the power of words to describe . 
It is served lukewarm but no matter , ice could not help it it is incurably flat , incurably insipid . 
It is only good to wash with I wonder it doesn't occur to the average inhabitant to try it for that . 
In Europe the people say contemptuously , Nobody drinks water here . 
Indeed , they have a sound and sufficient reason . 
In many places they even have what may be called prohibitory reasons . 
In Paris and Munich , for instance , they say , Don't drink the water , it is simply poison . 
Either America is healthier than Europe , notwithstanding her deadly indulgence in ice water , or she does not keep the run of her death rate as sharply as Europe does . 
I think we do keep up the death statistics accurately and if we do , our cities are healthier than the cities of Europe . 
Every month the German government tabulates the death rate of the world and publishes it . 
I scrap booked these reports during several months , and it was curious to see how regular and persistently each city repeated its same death rate month after month . 
The tables might as well have been stereotyped , they varied so little . 
These tables were based upon weekly reports showing the average of deaths in each , population for a year . 
, Chicago was as constant with her or , Dublin with her and so on . 
Here is the average of the only American cities reported in the German tables Chicago , deaths in , population annually , Philadelphia , St . 
Louis , San Francisco , New York , . 
Petersburg , Trieste , Alexandria , Dublin , Calcutta , . 
Edinburgh is as healthy as New York but there is no CITY in the entire list which is healthier , except Frankfort on the Main . 
But Frankfort is not as healthy as Chicago , San Francisco , St . 
Perhaps a strict average of the world might develop the fact that where one in , of America's population dies , two in , of the other populations of the earth succumb . 
I do not like to make insinuations , but I do think the above statistics darkly suggest that these people over here drink this detestable water on the sly . 
A moraine is an ugly thing to assault head first . 
By and by we came to the Mauvais Pas , or the Villainous Road , to translate it feelingly . 
It was a breakneck path around the face of a precipice forth or fifty feet high , and nothing to hang on to but some iron railings . 
I got along , slowly , safely , and uncomfortably , and finally reached the middle . 
A hog on a pleasure excursion in Switzerland think of it ! It is striking and unusual a body might write a poem about it . 
He could not retreat , if he had been disposed to do it . 
It would have been foolish to stand upon our dignity in a place where there was hardly room to stand upon our feet , so we did nothing of the sort . 
There were twenty or thirty ladies and gentlemen behind us we all turned about and went back , and the hog followed behind . 
The creature did not seem set up by what he had done he had probably done it before . 
We reached the restaurant on the height called the Chapeau at four in the afternoon . 
It was a memento factory , and the stock was large , cheap , and varied . 
This was not dangerous , for the valley was five miles wide , and quite level . 
We reached the hotel before nine o'clock . 
Next morning we left for Geneva on top of the diligence , under shelter of a gay awning . 
If I remember rightly , there were more than twenty people up there . 
It was so high that the ascent was made by ladder . 
The huge vehicle was full everywhere , inside and out . 
Five other diligences left at the same time , all full . 
Baedeker knows all about hotels , railway and diligence companies , and speaks his mind freely . 
He is a trustworthy friend of the traveler . 
In Geneva , prices in the smaller shops are very elastic that is another bad feature . 
I was looking in at a window at a very pretty string of beads , suitable for a child . 
I was only admiring them I had no use for them I hardly ever wear beads . 
The shopwoman came out and offered them to me for thirty five francs . 
I said it was cheap , but I did not need them . 
Ah , but monsieur , they are so beautiful ! I confessed it , but said they were not suitable for one of my age and simplicity of character . 
There , I have said it it is a loss , but one must live . 
I dropped my hands , and tried to move her to respect my unprotected situation . 
I removed them gently , returned them , and walked away , shaking my head and smiling a smile of silly embarrassment while the passers by halted to observe . 
The woman leaned out of her door , shook the beads , and screamed after me Monsieur shall have them for twenty eight ! I shook my head . 
Twenty seven ! It is a cruel loss , it is ruin but take them , only take them . 
I still retreated , still wagging my head . 
MON DIEU , they shall even go for twenty six ! There , I have said it . 
Come ! I wagged another negative . 
A nurse and a little English girl had been near me , and were following me , now . 
Then to the child When thy father sends me the money , come thou also , my angel , and thou shall have something oh so pretty ! I was thus providentially saved . 
The nurse refused the beads squarely and firmly , and that ended the matter . 
The sights of Geneva are not numerous . 
I made one attempt to hunt up the houses once inhabited by those two disagreeable people , Rousseau and Calvin , but I had no success . 
Then I concluded to go home . 
I found it was easier to propose to do that than to do it for that town is a bewildering place . 
I got lost in a tangle of narrow and crooked streets , and stayed lost for an hour or two . 
Finally I found a street which looked somewhat familiar , and said to myself , Now I am at home , I judge . 
But I was wrong this was HELL street . 
Presently I found another place which had a familiar look , and said to myself , Now I am at home , sure . 
After a little I said , NOW I've got the right place , anyway . 
no , this is 'PARADISE street' I'm further from home than I was in the beginning . 
Those were queer names Calvin was the author of them , likely . 
Hell and Purgatory fitted those two streets like a glove , but the Paradise appeared to be sarcastic . 
I came out on the lake front , at last , and then I knew where I was . 
I was walking along before the glittering jewelry shops when I saw a curious performance . 
She had to stop still and let him lounge by . 
I wondered if he had done that piece of brutality purposely . 
He strolled to a chair and seated himself at a small table two or three other males were sitting at similar tables sipping sweetened water . 
I waited presently a youth came by , and this fellow got up and served him the same trick . 
Still , it did not seem possible that any one could do such a thing deliberately . 
This proved that his previous performances had not been accidental , but intentional . 
We fine a cabman if he runs over a citizen Paris fines the citizen for being run over . 
At least so everybody says but I saw something which caused me to doubt I saw a horseman run over an old woman one day the police arrested him and took him away . 
That looked as if they meant to punish him . 
It is maintained that these people are not gentlemen , but are a lower sort , disguised as gentlemen . 
The case of Colonel Valentine Baker obstructs that argument , for a man cannot become an officer in the British army except he hold the rank of gentleman . 
This person , finding himself alone in a railway compartment with an unprotected girl but it is an atrocious story , and doubtless the reader remembers it well enough . 
London must have been more or less accustomed to Bakers , and the ways of Bakers , else London would have been offended and excited . 
Arkansaw it seems a little indelicate to be trumpeting forth our own superiorities , and comparisons are always odious , but still Arkansaw would certainly have hanged Baker . 
I do not say she would have tried him first , but she would have hanged him , anyway . 
Even the most degraded woman can walk our streets unmolested , her sex and her weakness being her sufficient protection . 
She will encounter less polish than she would in the old world , but she will run across enough humanity to make up for it . 
We lost a good deal of time by this , but it was no matter , we were not in a hurry . 
We were four hours going to Chamb ery . 
The Swiss trains go upward of three miles an hour , in places , but they are quite safe . 
That aged French town of Chamb ery was as quaint and crooked as Heilbronn . 
A drowsy reposeful quiet reigned in the back streets which made strolling through them very pleasant , barring the almost unbearable heat of the sun . 
From queer old fashioned windows along the curve projected boxes of bright flowers , and over the edge of one of these boxes hung the head and shoulders of a cat asleep . 
The five sleeping creatures were the only living things visible in that street . 
There was not a sound absolute stillness prevailed . 
It was Sunday one is not used to such dreamy Sundays on the continent . 
In our part of the town it was different that night . 
A regiment of brown and battered soldiers had arrived home from Algiers , and I judged they got thirsty on the way . 
They sang and drank till dawn , in the pleasant open air . 
We left for Turin at ten the next morning by a railway which was profusely decorated with tunnels . 
We forgot to take a lantern along , consequently we missed all the scenery . 
In the seat thus pirated , sat two Americans , greatly incommoded by that woman's majestic coffin clad feet . 
One of them begged , politely , to remove them . 
She opened her wide eyes and gave him a stare , but answered nothing . 
By and by he preferred his request again , with great respectfulness . 
But I have rights , also , madam . 
My ticket entitles me to a seat , but you are occupying half of it . 
I will not talk with you , sir . 
What right have you to speak to me ? I do not know you . 
One would know you came from a land where there are no gentlemen . 
No GENTLEMAN would treat a lady as you have treated me . 
I come from a region where a lady would hardly give me the same provocation . 
You have insulted me , sir ! You have intimated that I am not a lady and I hope I am NOT one , after the pattern of your country . 
I beg that you will give yourself no alarm on that head , madam but at the same time I must insist always respectfully that you let me have my seat . 
Here the fragile laundress burst into tears and sobs . 
And I offer them most sincerely . 
I did not know I COULD not know anything was the matter . 
You are most welcome to the seat , and would have been from the first if I had only known . 
I am truly sorry it all happened , I do assure you . 
But he couldn't get a word of forgiveness out of her . 
Turin is a very fine city . 
In the matter of roominess it transcends anything that was ever dreamed of before , I fancy . 
The sidewalks are about as wide as ordinary European STREETS , and are covered over with a double arcade supported on great stone piers or columns . 
Everything is on a large scale the public buildings , for instance and they are architecturally imposing , too , as well as large . 
The big squares have big bronze monuments in them . 
At the hotel they gave us rooms that were alarming , for size , and parlor to match . 
It was well the weather required no fire in the parlor , for I think one might as well have tried to warm a park . 
The furniture , the ornaments , the chandeliers , the carpets , were all new and bright and costly . 
We did not need a parlor at all , but they said it belonged to the two bedrooms and we might use it if we chose . 
Since it was to cost nothing , we were not averse to using it , of course . 
Turin must surely read a good deal , for it has more book stores to the square rod than any other town I know of . 
And it has its own share of military folk . 
The Italian officers' uniforms are very much the most beautiful I have ever seen and , as a general thing , the men in them were as handsome as the clothes . 
They were not large men , but they had fine forms , fine features , rich olive complexions , and lustrous black eyes . 
For several weeks I had been culling all the information I could about Italy , from tourists . 
The tourists were all agreed upon one thing one must expect to be cheated at every turn by the Italians . 
I took an evening walk in Turin , and presently came across a little Punch and Judy show in one of the great squares . 
Twelve or fifteen people constituted the audience . 
The audience stood in front of the theater , and seemed to enjoy the performance heartily . 
When the play was done , a youth in his shirt sleeves started around with a small copper saucer to make a collection . 
I did not know how much to put in , but thought I would be guided by my predecessors . 
Unluckily , I only had two of these , and they did not help me much because they did not put in anything . 
I had no Italian money , so I put in a small Swiss coin worth about ten cents . 
I had a mind to slip away , but concluded I wouldn't I would stand my ground , and confront the villainy , whatever it was . 
The youth stood before me and held up that Swiss coin , sure enough , and said something . 
I did not understand him , but I judged he was requiring Italian money of me . 
The crowd gathered close , to listen . 
I was irritated , and said in English , of course I know it's Swiss , but you'll take that or none . 
He tried to put the coin in my hand , and spoke again . 
I drew my hand away , and said NO , sir . 
I know all about you people . 
You can't play any of your fraudful tricks on me . 
If there is a discount on that coin , I am sorry , but I am not going to make it good . 
I noticed that some of the audience didn't pay you anything at all . 
You let them go , without a word , but you come after me because you think I'm a stranger and will put up with an extortion rather than have a scene . 
But you are mistaken this time you'll take that Swiss money or none . 
The youth stood there with the coin in his fingers , nonplused and bewildered of course he had not understood a word . 
An English speaking Italian spoke up , now , and said You are misunderstanding the boy . 
He does not mean any harm . 
He did not suppose you gave him so much money purposely , so he hurried back to return you the coin lest you might get away before you discovered your mistake . 
Take it , and give him a penny that will make everything smooth again . 
I probably blushed , then , for there was occasion . 
Through the interpreter I begged the boy's pardon , but I nobly refused to take back the ten cents . 
I said I was accustomed to squandering large sums in that way it was the kind of person I was . 
Then I retired to make a note to the effect that in Italy persons connected with the drama do not cheat . 
The episode with the showman reminds me of a dark chapter in my history . 
I once robbed an aged and blind beggar woman of four dollars in a church . 
When I was out with the Innocents Abroad , the ship stopped in the Russian port of Odessa and I went ashore , with others , to view the town . 
I got separated from the rest , and wandered about alone , until late in the afternoon , when I entered a Greek church to see what it was like . 
When I was ready to leave , I observed two wrinkled old women standing stiffly upright against the inner wall , near the door , with their brown palms open to receive alms . 
I contributed to the nearer one , and passed out . 
It was a little after four now . 
With a sudden and horrified misgiving , I put my hand in my pocket , now , and sure enough , I fetched out that Turkish penny ! Here was a situation . 
A hotel would require pay in advance I must walk the street all night , and perhaps be arrested as a suspicious character . 
There was but one way out of the difficulty I flew back to the church , and softly entered . 
There stood the old woman yet , and in the palm of the nearest one still lay my gold piece . 
I crept close , feeling unspeakably mean I got my Turkish penny ready , and was extending a trembling hand to make the nefarious exchange , when I heard a cough behind me . 
I jumped back as if I had been accused , and stood quaking while a worshiper entered and passed up the aisle . 
I was there a year trying to steal that money that is , it seemed a year , though , of course , it must have been much less . 
The worshipers went and came there were hardly ever three in the church at once , but there was always one or more . 
I whipped the gold piece out of the poor old pauper's palm and dropped my Turkish penny in its place . 
Poor old thing , she murmured her thanks they smote me to the heart . 
The most permanent lessons in morals are those which come , not of booky teaching , but of experience . 
CHAPTER XLVIII Beauty of Women and of Old Masters In Milan we spent most of our time in the vast and beautiful Arcade or Gallery , or whatever it is called . 
I should like to live in it all the time . 
The windows of the sumptuous restaurants stand open , and one breakfasts there and enjoys the passing show . 
We wandered all over the town , enjoying whatever was going on in the streets . 
Then he went and got his tariff card and showed me that he had taken only the right sum . 
So I made a note Italian omnibus conductors do not cheat . 
Near the Cathedral I saw another instance of probity . 
An old man was peddling dolls and toy fans . 
Hence it is plain that in Italy , parties connected with the drama and the omnibus and the toy interests do not cheat . 
The stocks of goods in the shops were not extensive , generally . 
In the vestibule of what seemed to be a clothing store , we saw eight or ten wooden dummies grouped together , clothed in woolen business suits and each marked with its price . 
One suit was marked forty five francs nine dollars . 
Harris stepped in and said he wanted a suit like that . 
Nothing easier the old merchant dragged in the dummy , brushed him off with a broom , stripped him , and shipped the clothes to the hotel . 
He said he did not keep two suits of the same kind in stock , but manufactured a second when it was needed to reclothe the dummy . 
In another quarter we found six Italians engaged in a violent quarrel . 
We lost half an hour there , waiting to help cord up the dead , but they finally embraced each other affectionately , and the trouble was over . 
The episode was interesting , but we could not have afforded all the time to it if we had known nothing was going to come of it but a reconciliation . 
Note made in Italy , people who quarrel cheat the spectator . 
We had another disappointment afterward . 
I supposed he was going to set fire to the liquid and swallow it , so I was greatly wrought up and interested . 
The crowd applauded in a gratified way , and it seemed to me that history speaks the truth when it says these children of the south are easily entertained . 
We visited the picture galleries and the other regulation sights of Milan not because I wanted to write about them again , but to see if I had learned anything in twelve years . 
I afterward visited the great galleries of Rome and Florence for the same purpose . 
I found I had learned one thing . 
When I wrote about the Old Masters before , I said the copies were better than the originals . 
That was a mistake of large dimensions . 
The Old Masters were still unpleasing to me , but they were truly divine contrasted with the copies . 
There is a mellow richness , a subdued color , in the old pictures , which is to the eye what muffled and mellowed sound is to the ear . 
It was generally conceded by the artists with whom I talked , that that subdued splendor , that mellow richness , is imparted to the picture by AGE . 
That is what he said and he said what he believed and not only believed , but felt . 
Reasoning especially reasoning , without technical knowledge must be put aside , in cases of this kind . 
It cannot assist the inquirer . 
It will lead him , in the most logical progression , to what , in the eyes of artists , would be a most illogical conclusion . 
One of these was Tintoretto's three acre picture in the Great Council Chamber . 
When I saw it twelve years ago I was not strongly attracted to it the guide told me it was an insurrection in heaven but this was an error . 
The movement of this great work is very fine . 
There are ten thousand figures , and they are all doing something . 
There is a wonderful go to the whole composition . 
Mark is there with his book St . 
This is wonderfully interpreted by the artist . 
It is the master stroke of this imcomparable painting . 
Figure I visited the place daily , and never grew tired of looking at that grand picture . 
As I have intimated , the movement is almost unimaginable vigorous the figures are singing , hosannahing , and many are blowing trumpets . 
Twelve years ago I could not have appreciated this picture . 
One year ago I could not have appreciated it . 
My study of Art in Heidelberg has been a noble education to me . 
All that I am today in Art , I owe to that . 
The other great work which fascinated me was Bassano's immortal Hair Trunk . 
This is in the Chamber of the Council of Ten . 
It is in one of the three forty foot pictures which decorate the walls of the room . 
The composition of this picture is beyond praise . 
One is lost in wonder at all the thought and care which this elaborate planning must have cost . 
A general glance at the picture could never suggest that there was a hair trunk in it the Hair Trunk is not mentioned in the title even which is , Pope Alexander III . 
Let us examine into this , and observe the exquisitely artful artlessness of the plan . 
This latter state of things is not an accident , it has its purpose . 
Descriptions of such a work as this must necessarily be imperfect , yet they are of value . 
The Trunk is bound or bordered with leather all around where the lid joins the main body . 
Many critics consider this leather too cold in tone but I consider this its highest merit , since it was evidently made so to emphasize by contrast the impassioned fervor of the hasp . 
The highlights in this part of the work are cleverly managed , the MOTIF is admirably subordinated to the ground tints , and the technique is very fine . 
The brass nail heads are in the purest style of the early Renaissance . 
The strokes , here , are very firm and bold every nail head is a portrait . 
The hair of this Trunk is REAL hair so to speak white in patched , brown in patches . 
The details are finely worked out the repose proper to hair in a recumbent and inactive attitude is charmingly expressed . 
There is a feeling about this part of the work which lifts it to the highest altitudes of art the sense of sordid realism vanishes away one recognizes that there is SOUL here . 
View this Trunk as you will , it is a gem , it is a marvel , it is a miracle . 
Among the art treasures of Europe there are pictures which approach the Hair Trunk there are two which may be said to equal it , possibly but there is none that surpasses it . 
So perfect is the Hair Trunk that it moves even persons who ordinarily have no feeling for art . 
These facts speak for themselves . 
CHAPTER XLIX Hanged with a Golden Rope One lingers about the Cathedral a good deal , in Venice . 
There is a strong fascination about it partly because it is so old , and partly because it is so ugly . 
One has a sense of uneasiness , of distress , without knowing why . 
But one is calm before St . 
One's admiration of a perfect thing always grows , never declines and this is the surest evidence to him that it IS perfect . 
To me it soon grew to be so nobly , so augustly ugly , that it was difficult to stay away from it , even for a little while . 
Propped on its long row of low thick legged columns , its back knobbed with domes , it seemed like a vast warty bug taking a meditative walk . 
Mark's is not the oldest building in the world , of course , but it seems the oldest , and looks the oldest especially inside . 
When the ancient mosaics in its walls become damaged , they are repaired but not altered the grotesque old pattern is preserved . 
Antiquity has a charm of its own , and to smarten it up would only damage it . 
The Cathedral itself had seemed very old but this picture was illustrating a period in history which made the building seem young by comparison . 
Contrasted with the inconceivable antiquity of this modest fossil , those other things were flippantly modern jejune mere matters of day before yesterday . 
The sense of the oldness of the Cathedral vanished away under the influence of this truly venerable presence . 
Mark's is monumental it is an imperishable remembrancer of the profound and simply piety of the Middle Ages . 
Whoever could ravish a column from a pagan temple , did it and contributed his swag to this Christian one . 
So this fane is upheld by several hundred acquisitions procured in that peculiar way . 
In our day it would be immoral to go on the highway to get bricks for a church , but it was no sin in the old times . 
Mark's was itself the victim of a curious robbery once . 
His sinful eye was dazzled and he hid himself behind an altar , with an evil purpose in his heart , but a priest discovered him and turned him out . 
Afterward he got in again by false keys , this time . 
He did not need to grab , haphazard , and run there was no hurry . 
He could make deliberate and well considered selections he could consult his esthetic tastes . 
He continued to store up his treasures at home until his occupation lost the charm of novelty and became monotonous then he ceased from it , contented . 
So he exacted a solemn oath from a Candian noble named Crioni , then led him to his lodgings and nearly took his breath away with a sight of his glittering hoard . 
Stammato made Crioni a present of one of the state's principal jewels a huge carbuncle , which afterward figured in the Ducal cap of state and the pair parted . 
Crioni went at once to the palace , denounced the criminal , and handed over the carbuncle as evidence . 
Stammato was arrested , tried , and condemned , with the old time Venetian promptness . 
He was hanged between the two great columns in the Piazza with a gilded rope , out of compliment to his love of gold , perhaps . 
He got no good of his booty at all it was ALL recovered . 
In Venice we had a luxury which very seldom fell to our lot on the continent a home dinner with a private family . 
If one could always stop with private families , when traveling , Europe would have a charm which it now lacks . 
As it is , one must live in the hotels , of course , and that is a sorrowful business . 
A man accustomed to American food and American domestic cookery would not starve to death suddenly in Europe but I think he would gradually waste away , and eventually die . 
He would have to do without his accustomed morning meal . 
That is too formidable a change altogether he would necessarily suffer from it . 
He could get the shadow , the sham , the base counterfeit of that meal but it would do him no good , and money could not buy the reality . 
To particularize the average American's simplest and commonest form of breakfast consists of coffee and beefsteak well , in Europe , coffee is an unknown beverage . 
You can get what the European hotel keeper thinks is coffee , but it resembles the real thing as hypocrisy resembles holiness . 
It is a feeble , characterless , uninspiring sort of stuff , and almost as undrinkable as if it had been made in an American hotel . 
The milk used for it is what the French call Christian milk milk which has been baptized . 
Next , the butter the sham and tasteless butter no salt in it , and made of goodness knows what . 
Then there is the beefsteak . 
They have it in Europe , but they don't know how to cook it . 
Neither will they cut it right . 
It comes on the table in a small , round pewter platter . 
It is a little overdone , is rather dry , it tastes pretty insipidly , it rouses no enthusiasm . 
The number of dishes is sufficient but then it is such a monotonous variety of UNSTRIKING dishes . 
It is an inane dead level of fair to middling . 
There is nothing to ACCENT it . 
Now a vast roast turkey , stretched on the broad of his back , with his heels in the air and the rich juices oozing from his fat sides . 
but I may as well stop there , for they would not know how to cook him . 
They can't even cook a chicken respectably and as for carving it , they do that with a hatchet . 
This is about the customary table d'ho te bill in summer Soup . 
Fish sole , salmon , or whiting usually tolerably good . 
Roast mutton or beef tasteless and some last year's potatoes . 
A pa te , or some other made dish usually good considering . 
One vegetable brought on in state , and all alone usually insipid lentils , or string beans , or indifferent asparagus . 
Roast chicken , as tasteless as paper . 
Sometimes the apricots and figs are fresh , but this is no advantage , as these fruits are of no account anyway . 
The grapes are generally good , and sometimes there is a tolerably good peach , by mistake . 
The variations of the above bill are trifling . 
Three or four months of this weary sameness will kill the robustest appetite . 
Baked apples , with Brook trout , from Sierra cream . 
Lake trout , from Tahoe . 
Sheepshead and croakers from American coffee , with real cream . 
Black bass from the Mississippi . 
Fried chicken , Southern style . 
Roast turkey , Thanksgiving Saratoga potatoes . 
Broiled chicken , American style . 
Hot biscuits , Southern style . 
Hot wheat bread , Southern Canvasback duck , from style . 
Prairie hens , from Illinois . 
Clear maple Missouri partridges , broiled . 
Blue points , on the half shell . 
Bacon and greens , Southern style . 
San Francisco mussels , steamed . 
Oysters roasted in shell Lettuce . 
Boiled potatoes , in their skins . 
New potatoes , minus the skins . 
Early Rose potatoes , roasted in Hot egg bread , Southern style . 
the ashes , Southern style , Hot light bread , Southern style . 
Sliced tomatoes , with sugar or Apple dumplings , with real vinegar . 
Green corn , cut from the ear and Apple pie . 
served with butter and pepper . 
Apple puffs , Southern style . 
Green corn , on the ear . 
Peach cobbler , Southern style . 
Hot corn pone , with chitlings , Peach pie . 
Hot hoe cake , Southern style . 
All sorts of American pastry . 
Fresh American fruits of all sorts , including strawberries , which are not to be doled out as if they were jewelry , but in a more liberal way . 
Ice water not prepared in the ineffectual goblet , but in the sincere and capable refrigerator . 
Americans intending to spend a year or so in European hotels , will do well to copy this bill and carry it along . 
They will find it an excellent thing to get up an appetite with , in the dispiriting presence of the squalid table d'ho te . 
Foreigners cannot enjoy our food , I suppose , any more than we can enjoy theirs . 
It is not strange for tastes are made , not born . 
This has met with professional recognition . 
I have often furnished recipes for cook books . 
RECIPE FOR AN ASH CAKE Take a lot of water and add to it a lot of coarse Indian meal and about a quarter of a lot of salt . 
Mix well together , knead into the form of a pone , and let the pone stand awhile not on its edge , but the other way . 
Rake away a place among the embers , lay it there , and cover it an inch deep with hot ashes . 
When it is done , remove it blow off all the ashes but one layer butter that one and eat . 
N. B. No household should ever be without this talisman . 
It has been noticed that tramps never return for another ash cake . 
RECIPE FOR NEW ENGLISH PIE To make this excellent breakfast dish , proceed as follows Take a sufficiency of water and a sufficiency of flour , and construct a bullet proof dough . 
Work this into the form of a disk , with the edges turned up some three fourths of an inch . 
Toughen and kiln dry in a couple days in a mild but unvarying temperature . 
Construct a cover for this redoubt in the same way and of the same material . 
Serve cold at breakfast and invite your enemy . 
RECIPE FOR GERMAN COFFEE Take a barrel of water and bring it to a boil rub a chicory berry against a coffee berry , then convey the former into the water . 
Continue the boiling and evaporation until the intensity of the flavor and aroma of the coffee and chicory has been diminished to a proper degree then set aside to cool . 
Mix the beverage in a cold cup , partake with moderation , and keep a wet rag around your head to guard against over excitement . 
TO CARVE FOWLS IN THE GERMAN FASHION Use a club , and avoid the joints . 
But not so with Art . 
The brush may still deal freely with any subject , however revolting or indelicate . 
It makes a body ooze sarcasm at every pore , to go about Rome and Florence and see what this last generation has been doing with the statues . 
These works , which had stood in innocent nakedness for ages , are all fig leaved now . 
Yes , every one of them . 
Nobody noticed their nakedness before , perhaps nobody can help noticing it now , the fig leaf makes it so conspicuous . 
It isn't that she is naked and stretched out on a bed no , it is the attitude of one of her arms and hand . 
I saw young girls stealing furtive glances at her I saw young men gaze long and absorbedly at her I saw aged , infirm men hang upon her charms with a pathetic interest . 
Which shows that the world is not as consistent as it might be . 
There are pictures of nude women which suggest no impure thought I am well aware of that . 
I am not railing at such . 
What I am trying to emphasize is the fact that Titian's Venus is very far from being one of that sort . 
Without any question it was painted for a bagnio and it was probably refused because it was a trifle too strong . 
In truth , it is too strong for any place but a public Art Gallery . 
Titian has two Venuses in the Tribune persons who have seen them will easily remember which one I am referring to . 
But suppose a literary artist ventured to go into a painstaking and elaborate description of one of these grisly things the critics would skin him alive . 
Well , let it go , it cannot be helped Art retains her privileges , Literature has lost hers . 
Somebody else may cipher out the whys and the wherefores and the consistencies of it I haven't got time . 
Titian's Venus defiles and disgraces the Tribune , there is no softening that fact , but his Moses glorifies it . 
The simple truthfulness of its noble work wins the heart and the applause of every visitor , be he learned or ignorant . 
This is a human child , this is genuine . 
You have seen him a thousand times you have seen him just as he is here and you confess , without reserve , that Titian WAS a Master . 
The doll faces of other painted babes may mean one thing , they may mean another , but with the Moses the case is different . 
The most famous of all the art critics has said , There is no room for doubt , here plainly this child is in trouble . 
I consider that the Moses has no equal among the works of the Old Masters , except it be the divine Hair Trunk of Bassano . 
I feel sure that if all the other Old Masters were lost and only these two preserved , the world would be the gainer by it . 
I worked Spain and other regions through agents to save time and shoe leather . 
We crossed to England , and then made the homeward passage in the Cunarder GALLIA , a very fine ship . 
I was glad to get home immeasurably glad so glad , in fact , that it did not seem possible that anything could ever get me out of the country again . 
I had not enjoyed a pleasure abroad which seemed to me to compare with the pleasure I felt in seeing New York harbor again . 
Europe has many advantages which we have not , but they do not compensate for a good many still more valuable ones which exist nowhere but in our own country . 
Then we are such a homeless lot when we are over there ! So are Europeans themselves , for the matter . 
They live in dark and chilly vast tombs costly enough , maybe , but without conveniences . 
To be condemned to live as the average European family lives would make life a pretty heavy burden to the average American family . 
On the whole , I think that short visits to Europe are better for us than long ones . 
I think that one who mixes much with Americans long resident abroad must arrive at this conclusion . 
APPENDIX Nothing gives such weight and dignity to a book as an Appendix . 
A word about the European hotel PORTIER . 
He is a most admirable invention , a most valuable convenience . 
He is not the clerk , he is not the landlord he ranks above the clerk , and represents the landlord , who is seldom seen . 
Instead of going to the clerk for information , as we do at home , you go to the portier . 
It is the pride of our average hotel clerk to know nothing whatever it is the pride of the portier to know everything . 
There is nothing he will not put his hand to . 
Consequently , you easily drift into the habit of leaving everything to him . 
The more requirements you can pile upon him , the better he likes it . 
Of course the result is that you cease from doing anything for yourself . 
What is the secret of the portier's devotion ? It is very simple he gets FEES , AND NO SALARY . 
His fee is pretty closely regulated , too . 
If you stay a week , you give him five marks a dollar and a quarter , or about eighteen cents a day . 
If you stay a month , you reduce this average somewhat . 
If you stay two or three months or longer , you cut it down half , or even more than half . 
If you stay only one day , you give the portier a mark . 
You fee only these four , and no one else . 
It is considered best to keep his expectations on a string until your stay in concluded . 
The waiter expects a quarter at breakfast and gets it . 
You have a different waiter at luncheon , and so he gets a quarter . 
Your waiter at dinner is another stranger consequently he gets a quarter . 
The boy who carries your satchel to your room and lights your gas fumbles around and hangs around significantly , and you fee him to get rid of him . 
It seems to me that it would be a happy idea to import the European feeing system into America . 
I believe it would result in getting even the bells of the Philadelphia hotels answered , and cheerful service rendered . 
The greatest American hotels keep a number of clerks and a cashier , and pay them salaries which mount up to a considerable total in the course of a year . 
The great continental hotels keep a cashier on a trifling salary , and a portier WHO PAYS THE HOTEL A SALARY . 
By the latter system both the hotel and the public save money and are better served than by our system . 
One of our consuls told me that a portier of a great Berlin hotel paid five thousand dollars a year for his position , and yet cleared six thousand dollars for himself . 
When we borrowed the feeing fashion from Europe a dozen years ago , the salary system ought to have been discontinued , of course . 
We might make this correction now , I should think . 
And we might add the portier , too . 
Yes , what was true eight hundred years ago , is just as true today Few there be that can keep a hotel . 
Perhaps it is because the landlords and their subordinates have in too many cases taken up their trade without first learning it . 
In Europe the trade of hotel keeper is taught . 
The apprentice begins at the bottom of the ladder and masters the several grades one after the other . 
His trade is learned now , and by and by he will assume the style and dignity of landlord , and be found conducting a hotel of his own . 
He can live prosperously on that reputation . 
He can let his hotel run down to the last degree of shabbiness and yet have it full of people all the time . 
For instance , there is the Ho tel de Ville , in Milan . 
It swarms with mice and fleas , and if the rest of the world were destroyed it could furnish dirt enough to start another one with . 
But the Ho tel de Ville's old excellent reputation still keeps its dreary rooms crowded with travelers who would be elsewhere if they had only some wise friend to warn them . 
APPENDIX B Heidelberg Castle Heidelberg Castle must have been very beautiful before the French battered and bruised and scorched it two hundred years ago . 
The stone is brown , with a pinkish tint , and does not seem to stain easily . 
Many fruit and flower clusters , human heads and grim projecting lions' heads are still as perfect in every detail as if they were new . 
But the statues which are ranked between the windows have suffered . 
These are life size statues of old time emperors , electors , and similar grandees , clad in mail and bearing ponderous swords . 
Some have lost an arm , some a head , and one poor fellow is chopped off at the middle . 
A ruin must be rightly situated , to be effective . 
This one could not have been better placed . 
Nature knows how to garnish a ruin to get the best effect . 
One of these old towers is split down the middle , and one half has tumbled aside . 
It tumbled in such a way as to establish itself in a picturesque attitude . 
Then all it lacked was a fitting drapery , and Nature has furnished that she has robed the rugged mass in flowers and verdure , and made it a charm to the eye . 
The standing half exposes its arched and cavernous rooms to you , like open , toothless mouths there , too , the vines and flowers have done their work of grace . 
The rear portion of the tower has not been neglected , either , but is clothed with a clinging garment of polished ivy which hides the wounds and stains of time . 
Even the top is not left bare , but is crowned with a flourishing group of trees and shrubs . 
Misfortune has done for this old tower what it has done for the human character sometimes improved it . 
But that was a hasty idea . 
Those people had the advantage of US . 
They had the fine castle to live in , and they could cross the Rhine valley and muse over the stately ruin of Trifels besides . 
The Trifels people , in their day , five hundred years ago , could go and muse over majestic ruins that have vanished , now , to the last stone . 
An illumination of Heidelberg Castle is one of the sights of Europe . 
The Castle's picturesque shape its commanding situation , midway up the steep and wooded mountainside its vast size these features combine to make an illumination a most effective spectacle . 
It is necessarily an expensive show , and consequently rather infrequent . 
Therefore whenever one of these exhibitions is to take place , the news goes about in the papers and Heidelberg is sure to be full of people on that night . 
I and my agent had one of these opportunities , and improved it . 
This roadway was densely packed with carriages and foot passengers the former of all ages , and the latter of all ages and both sexes . 
This black and solid mass was struggling painfully onward , through the slop , the darkness , and the deluge . 
We waded along for three quarters of a mile , and finally took up a position in an unsheltered beer garden directly opposite the Castle . 
We stood on one of the hundred benches in the garden , under our umbrellas the other ninety nine were occupied by standing men and women , and they also had umbrellas . 
All the region round about , and up and down the river road , was a dense wilderness of humanity hidden under an unbroken pavement of carriage tops and umbrellas . 
Thus we stood during two drenching hours . 
I had the rheumatism , too , and had heard that this was good for it . 
Afterward , however , I was led to believe that the water treatment is NOT good for rheumatism . 
There were even little girls in that dreadful place . 
A men held one in his arms , just in front of me , for as much as an hour , with umbrella drippings soaking into her clothing all the time . 
In the circumstances , two hours was a good while for us to have to wait , but when the illumination did at last come , we felt repaid . 
It came unexpectedly , of course things always do , that have been long looked and longed for . 
For a while the whole region about us seemed as bright as day , and yet the rain was falling in torrents all the time . 
The evening's entertainment presently closed , and we joined the innumerable caravan of half drowned strangers , and waded home again . 
I say pretend , because I only pretended to sip , without really sipping . 
That is the polite way but when you are ready to go , you empty the beaker at a draught . 
There was a brass band , and it furnished excellent music every afternoon . 
Sometimes so many people came that every seat was occupied , every table filled . 
The trees were jubilant with birds , and the paths with rollicking children . 
One could have a seat in that place and plenty of music , any afternoon , for about eight cents , or a family ticket for the season for two dollars . 
Everybody has heard of the great Heidelberg Tun , and most people have seen it , no doubt . 
It is a wine cask as big as a cottage , and some traditions say it holds eighteen thousand bottles , and other traditions say it holds eighteen hundred million barrels . 
I think it likely that one of these statements is a mistake , and the other is a lie . 
However , the mere matter of capacity is a thing of no sort of consequence , since the cask is empty , and indeed has always been empty , history says . 
An empty cask the size of a cathedral could excite but little emotion in me . 
I do not see any wisdom in building a monster cask to hoard up emptiness in , when you can get a better quality , outside , any day , free of expense . 
What could this cask have been built for ? The more one studies over that , the more uncertain and unhappy he becomes . 
Some historians say that thirty couples , some say thirty thousand couples , can dance on the head of this cask at the same time . 
Even this does not seem to me to account for the building of it . 
It does not even throw light on it . 
This milk was very sweet and good , and a beautiful transparent bluish tint but in order to get cream from it in the most economical way , a peculiar process was necessary . 
This began to look reasonable . 
It certainly began to account for the German cream which I had encountered and marveled over in so many hotels and restaurants . 
It was plain that the Englishman had studied the matter from all sides . 
Either that is the case or they empty the spring milkings into the mountain torrents and then skim the Rhine all summer . 
There is a museum of antiquities in the Castle , and among its most treasured relics are ancient manuscripts connected with German history . 
There are hundreds of these , and their dates stretch back through many centuries . 
One of them is a decree signed and sealed by the hand of a successor of Charlemagne , in the year . 
A signature made by a hand which vanished out of this life near a thousand years ago , is a more impressive thing than even a ruined castle . 
Luther's wedding ring was shown me also a fork belonging to a time anterior to our era , and an early bookjack . 
And there was a plaster cast of the head of a man who was assassinated about sixty years ago . 
The stab wounds in the face were duplicated with unpleasant fidelity . 
One or two real hairs still remained sticking in the eyebrows of the cast . 
That trifle seemed to almost change the counterfeit into a corpse . 
There are many aged portraits some valuable , some worthless some of great interest , some of none at all . 
I bought a couple one a gorgeous duke of the olden time , and the other a comely blue eyed damsel , a princess , maybe . 
I bought them to start a portrait gallery of my ancestors with . 
I paid a dollar and a half for the duke and a half for the princess . 
One can lay in ancestors at even cheaper rates than these , in Europe , if he will mouse among old picture shops and look out for chances . 
APPENDIX C The College Prison It seems that the student may break a good many of the public laws without having to answer to the public authorities . 
His case must come before the University for trial and punishment . 
If the offense is one over which the city has no jurisdiction , the authorities report the case officially to the University , and give themselves no further concern about it . 
The University court send for the student , listen to the evidence , and pronounce judgment . 
The punishment usually inflicted is imprisonment in the University prison . 
As I understand it , a student's case is often tried without his being present at all . 
Ah , says the student , I was not expecting it . 
What have I been doing ? Two weeks ago the public peace had the honor to be disturbed by you . 
It is true I had forgotten it . 
Very well I have been complained of , tried , and found guilty is that it ? Exactly . 
You are sentenced to two days' solitary confinement in the College prison , and I am sent to fetch you . 
O , I can't go today . 
If you please why ? STUDENT . 
Because I've got an engagement . 
Tomorrow , then , perhaps ? STUDENT . 
No , I am going to the opera , tomorrow . 
Could you come Friday ? STUDENT . 
Let me see Friday Friday . 
I don't seem to have anything on hand Friday . 
Then , if you please , I will expect you on Friday . 
All right , I'll come around Friday . 
So on Friday the student goes to the prison of his own accord , and is admitted . 
It is questionable if the world's criminal history can show a custom more odd than this . 
Nobody knows , now , how it originated . 
He said he would appoint the very first day he could spare . 
His confinement was to endure twenty four hours . 
He shortly chose his day , and sent me word . 
I had learned to take it for granted that anybody in Germany who knows anything , knows English , so I had stopped afflicting people with my German . 
These gentlemen seemed a trifle amused and a trifle confused , too but one of them said he would walk around the corner with me and show me the place . 
He asked me why I wanted to get in there , and I said to see a friend and for curiosity . 
He doubted if I would be admitted , but volunteered to put in a word or two for me with the custodian . 
She threw up her hands with a surprised ACH GOTT , HERR PROFESSOR ! and exhibited a mighty deference for my new acquaintance . 
By the sparkle in her eye I judged she was a good deal amused , too . 
The Herr Professor talked to her in German , and I understood enough of it to know that he was bringing very plausible reasons to bear for admitting me . 
So the Herr Professor received my earnest thanks and departed . 
The old dame got her keys , took me up two or three flights of stairs , unlocked a door , and we stood in the presence of the criminal . 
Then she went into a jolly and eager description of all that had occurred downstairs , and what the Herr Professor had said , and so forth and so on . 
Plainly , she regarded it as quite a superior joke that I had waylaid a Professor and employed him in so odd a service . 
But I wouldn't have done it if I had known he was a Professor therefore my conscience was not disturbed . 
Now the dame left us to ourselves . 
The cell was not a roomy one still it was a little larger than an ordinary prison cell . 
There was no carpet , of course . 
The ceiling was completely covered with names , dates , and monograms , done with candle smoke . 
I do not think I was ever in a more elaborately frescoed apartment . 
Against the wall hung a placard containing the prison laws . 
I made a note of one or two of these . 
The jailer furnishes coffee , mornings , for a small sum dinners and suppers may be ordered from outside if the prisoner chooses and he is allowed to pay for them , too . 
Here and there , on the walls , appeared the names of American students , and in one place the American arms and motto were displayed in colored chalks . 
With the help of my friend I translated many of the inscriptions . 
Some of them were cheerful , others the reverse . 
, I am cast here through the complaints of others . 
Let those who follow me take warning . 
III TAGE OHNE GRUND ANGEBLICH AUS NEUGIERDE . 
Which is to say , he had a curiosity to know what prison life was like so he made a breach in some law and got three days for it . 
It is more than likely that he never had the same curiosity again . 
E. Glinicke , four days for being too eager a spectator of a row . 
F. Graf Bismarck , II , . 
Which means that Count Bismarck , son of the great statesman , was a prisoner two days in . 
R. Diergandt for Love days . 
Many people in this world have caught it heavier than for the same indiscretion . 
I translate Four weeks for MISINTERPRETED GALLANTRY . 
I wish the sufferer had explained a little more fully . 
A four week term is a rather serious matter . 
There were many uncomplimentary references , on the walls , to a certain unpopular dignitary . 
One sufferer had got three days for not saluting him . 
Another had here two days slept and three nights lain awake , on account of this same Dr . 
K. In one place was a picture of Dr . 
K. hanging on a gallows . 
Here and there , lonesome prisoners had eased the heavy time by altering the records left by predecessors . 
In one place , all by itself , stood this blood curdling word Rache ! . 
Revenge ! There was no name signed , and no date . 
It was an inscription well calculated to pique curiosity . 
One would greatly like to know the nature of the wrong that had been done , and what sort of vengeance was wanted , and whether the prisoner ever achieved it or not . 
But there was no way of finding out these things . 
Occasionally , a name was followed simply by the remark , II days , for disturbing the peace , and without comment upon the justice or injustice of the sentence . 
There were two prison cells , and neither had space left on walls or ceiling for another name or portrait or picture . 
The inside surfaces of the two doors were completely covered with CARTES DE VISITE of former prisoners , ingeniously let into the wood and protected from dirt and injury by glass . 
I very much wanted one of the sorry old tables which the prisoners had spent so many years in ornamenting with their pocket knives , but red tape was in the way . 
The system was right , and nobody could find fault with it but it did not seem justifiable to bother so many people , so I proceeded no further . 
It was not worth more than a dollar , or possibly a dollar and half , before the captive students began their work on it . 
Persons who saw it at the auction said it was so curiously and wonderfully carved that it was worth the money that was paid for it . 
In the course of his lark he managed to make a wide breach in one of the university's most stringent laws . 
Sequel before noon , next day , he was in the college prison booked for three months . 
The twelve long weeks dragged slowly by , and the day of deliverance came at last . 
Sequel before noon , next day , he was safe in the city lockup booked for three months . 
APPENDIX D The Awful German Language A little learning makes the whole world kin . 
I went often to look at the collection of curiosities in Heidelberg Castle , and one day I surprised the keeper of it with my German . 
I spoke entirely in that language . 
He was greatly interested and after I had talked a while he said my German was very rare , possibly a unique and wanted to add it to his museum . 
If he had known what it had cost me to acquire my art , he would also have known that it would break any collector to buy it . 
A person who has not studied German can form no idea of what a perplexing language it is . 
Surely there is not another language that is so slipshod and systemless , and so slippery and elusive to the grasp . 
He runs his eye down and finds that there are more exceptions to the rule than instances of it . 
So overboard he goes again , to hunt for another Ararat and find another quicksand . 
Such has been , and continues to be , my experience . 
Where is the bird ? Now the answer to this question according to the book is that the bird is waiting in the blacksmith shop on account of the rain . 
Of course no bird would do that , but then you must stick to the book . 
Very well , I begin to cipher out the German for that answer . 
I begin at the wrong end , necessarily , for that is the German idea . 
is masculine or maybe it is feminine or possibly neuter it is too much trouble to look now . 
Regen , according to which gender it may turn out to be when I look . 
In the interest of science , I will cipher it out on the hypothesis that it is masculine . 
, and this throws the rain into the Dative case , and makes it DEM Regen . 
Having completed the grammatical horoscope of this matter , I answer up confidently and state in German that the bird is staying in the blacksmith shop wegen DEN Regen . 
There are ten parts of speech , and they are all troublesome . 
I suppose that this closing hurrah is in the nature of the flourish to a man's signature not necessary , but pretty . 
Now here is a sentence from a popular and excellent German novel which a slight parenthesis in it . 
government counselor's wife MET , etc . 
Wenn er aber auf der Strasse der in Sammt und Seide gehu llten jetz sehr ungenirt nach der neusten mode gekleideten Regierungsrathin begegnet . 
That is from THE OLD MAMSELLE'S SECRET , by Mrs. Marlitt . 
And that sentence is constructed upon the most approved German model . 
Of course , then , the reader is left in a very exhausted and ignorant state . 
For surely it is NOT clearness it necessarily can't be clearness . 
Even a jury would have penetration enough to discover that . 
Parentheses in literature and dentistry are in bad taste . 
Can any one conceive of anything more confusing than that ? These things are called separable verbs . 
A favorite one is REISTE AB which means departed . 
However , it is not well to dwell too much on the separable verbs . 
One is sure to lose his temper early and if he sticks to the subject , and will not be warned , it will at last either soften his brain or petrify it . 
Personal pronouns and adjectives are a fruitful nuisance in this language , and should have been left out . 
Think of the ragged poverty of a language which has to make one word do the work of six and a poor little weak thing of only three letters at that . 
But mainly , think of the exasperation of never knowing which of these meanings the speaker is trying to convey . 
This explains why , whenever a person says SIE to me , I generally try to kill him , if a stranger . 
Here was a case where simplicity would have been an advantage therefore , for no other reason , the inventor of this language complicated it all he could . 
When a German gets his hands on an adjective , he declines it , and keeps on declining it until the common sense is all declined out of it . 
It is as bad as Latin . 
He says , for instance SINGULAR Nominative Mein gutER Freund , my good friend . 
Genitives MeinES GutEN FreundES , of my good friend . 
Dative MeinEM gutEN Freund , to my good friend . 
Accusative MeinEN gutEN Freund , my good friend . 
PLURAL N. MeinE gutEN FreundE , my good friends . 
G. MeinER gutEN FreundE , of my good friends . 
D. MeinEN gutEN FreundEN , to my good friends . 
A. MeinE gutEN FreundE , my good friends . 
Now let the candidate for the asylum try to memorize those variations , and see how soon he will be elected . 
One might better go without friends in Germany than take all this trouble about them . 
Now there are more adjectives in this language than there are black cats in Switzerland , and they must all be as elaborately declined as the examples above suggested . 
Difficult ? troublesome ? these words cannot describe it . 
I heard a Californian student in Heidelberg say , in one of his calmest moods , that he would rather decline two drinks than one German adjective . 
The inventor of the language seems to have taken pleasure in complicating it in every way he could think of . 
In German , all the Nouns begin with a capital letter . 
Now that is a good idea and a good idea , in this language , is necessarily conspicuous from its lonesomeness . 
I consider this capitalizing of nouns a good idea , because by reason of it you are almost always able to tell a noun the minute you see it . 
German names almost always do mean something , and this helps to deceive the student . 
I translated a passage one day , which said that the infuriated tigress broke loose and utterly ate up the unfortunate fir forest . 
When I was girding up my loins to doubt this , I found out that Tannenwald in this instance was a man's name . 
Every noun has a gender , and there is no sense or system in the distribution so the gender of each must be learned separately and by heart . 
There is no other way . 
To do this one has to have a memory like a memorandum book . 
In German , a young lady has no sex , while a turnip has . 
Think what overwrought reverence that shows for the turnip , and what callous disrespect for the girl . 
See how it looks in print I translate this from a conversation in one of the best of the German Sunday school books Gretchen . 
Wilhelm , where is the turnip ? Wilhelm . 
She has gone to the kitchen . 
Where is the accomplished and beautiful English maiden ? Wilhelm . 
It has gone to the opera . 
The inventor of the language probably got what he knew about a conscience from hearsay . 
is not which is unfortunate . 
A Wife , here , has no sex she is neuter so , according to the grammar , a fish is HE , his scales are SHE , but a fishwife is neither . 
To describe a wife as sexless may be called under description that is bad enough , but over description is surely worse . 
A German speaks of an Englishman as the ENGLA NDER to change the sex , he adds INN , and that stands for Englishwoman ENGLA NDERINN . 
I consider that that person is over described . 
It is a bleak Day . 
and it cannot get her out . 
It opens its Mouth to cry for Help but if any Sound comes out of him , alas he is drowned by the raging of the Storm . 
And now a Tomcat has got one of the Fishes and she will surely escape with him . 
In another Moment , except Help come , the Fishwife will be no more . 
There , now , the reader can see for himself that this pronoun business is a very awkward thing for the unaccustomed tongue . 
I suppose that in all languages the similarities of look and sound between words which have no similarity in meaning are a fruitful source of perplexity to the foreigner . 
It is so in our tongue , and it is notably the case in the German . 
There are lots of such words and they are a great torment . 
To increase the difficulty there are words which SEEM to resemble each other , and yet do not but they make just as much trouble as if they did . 
I heard of an Englishman who knocked at a man's door in Heidelberg and proposed , in the best German he could command , to verheirathen that house . 
Then there are some words which mean one thing when you emphasize the first syllable , but mean something very different if you throw the emphasis on the last syllable . 
There are some exceedingly useful words in this language . 
SCHLAG , for example and ZUG . 
There are three quarters of a column of SCHLAGS in the dictonary , and a column and a half of ZUGS . 
You can hang any word you please to its tail , and make it mean anything you want to . 
Just the same with ZUG . 
One cannot overestimate the usefulness of SCHLAG and ZUG . 
Every time a German opens his mouth an ALSO falls out and every time he shuts it he bites one in two that was trying to GET out . 
Now , the foreigner , equipped with these three noble words , is master of the situation . 
Then you blandly say ALSO , and load up again . 
Nothing gives such an air of grace and elegance and unconstraint to a German or an English conversation as to scatter it full of Also's or You knows . 
In my note book I find this entry July . 
The sad event has cast a gloom over the whole community . 
That paragraph furnishes a text for a few remarks about one of the most curious and notable features of my subject the length of German words . 
Some German words are so long that they have a perspective . 
These things are not words , they are alphabetical processions . 
They impart a martial thrill to the meekest subject . 
I take a great interest in these curiosities . 
Whenever I come across a good one , I stuff it and put it in my museum . 
In this way I have made quite a valuable collection . 
When I get duplicates , I exchange with other collectors , and thus increase the variety of my stock . 
Here rare some specimens which I lately bought at an auction sale of the effects of a bankrupt bric a brac hunter Generalstaatsverordnetenversammlungen . 
So he resorts to the dictionary for help , but there is no help there . 
The dictionary must draw the line somewhere so it leaves this sort of words out . 
And it is right , because these long things are hardly legitimate words , but are rather combinations of words , and the inventor of them ought to have been killed . 
They are compound words with the hyphens left out . 
I have tried this process upon some of the above examples . 
Freundshaftsbezeigungen seems to be Friendship demonstrations , which is only a foolish and clumsy way of saying demonstrations of friendship . 
Unabhaengigkeitserklaerungen seems to be Independencedeclarations , which is no improvement upon Declarations of Independence , so far as I can see . 
Generalstaatsverordnetenversammlungen seems to be General statesrepresentativesmeetings , as nearly as I can get at it a mere rhythmical , gushy euphuism for meetings of the legislature , I judge . 
We used to have a good deal of this sort of crime in our literature , but it has gone out now . 
In those days we were not content to embalm the thing and bury it decently , we wanted to build a monument over it . 
But in our newspapers the compounding disease lingers a little to the present day , but with the hyphens left out , in the German fashion . 
This saves neither time nor ink , and has an awkward sound besides . 
One often sees a remark like this in our papers MRS . 
Assistant District Attorney Johnson returned to her city residence yesterday for the season . 
That is a case of really unjustifiable compounding because it not only saves no time or trouble , but confers a title on Mrs. Johnson which she has no right to . 
But these little instances are trifles indeed , contrasted with the ponderous and dismal German system of piling jumbled compounds together . 
I wish to submit the following local item , from a Mannheim journal , by way of illustration In the daybeforeyesterdayshortlyaftereleveno'clock Night , the inthistownstandingtavern called 'The Wagoner' was downburnt . 
When the fire to the onthedownburninghouseresting Stork's Nest reached , flew the parent Storks away . 
But when the bytheraging , firesurrounded Nest ITSELF caught Fire , straightway plunged the quickreturning Mother Stork into the Flames and died , her Wings over her young ones outspread . 
Even the cumbersome German construction is not able to take the pathos out of that picture indeed , it somehow seems to strengthen it . 
This item is dated away back yonder months ago . 
I could have used it sooner , but I was waiting to hear from the Father stork . 
ALSO ! If I had not shown that the German is a difficult language , I have at least intended to do so . 
I have heard of an American student who was asked how he was getting along with his German , and who answered promptly I am not getting along at all . 
I have worked at it hard for three level months , and all I have got to show for it is one solitary German phrase 'ZWEI GLAS' . 
This was the word DAMIT . 
It merely means , in its general sense , herewith . 
I think that a description of any loud , stirring , tumultuous episode must be tamer in German than in English . 
Our descriptive words of this character have such a deep , strong , resonant sound , while their German equivalents do seem so thin and mild and energyless . 
Boom , burst , crash , roar , storm , bellow , blow , thunder , explosion howl , cry , shout , yell , groan battle , hell . 
These are magnificent words the have a force and magnitude of sound befitting the things which they describe . 
Our word Toothbrush is more powerful than that . 
It seems to me that the Germans could do worse than import it into their language to describe particularly tremendous explosions with . 
The German word for hell Ho lle sounds more like HELLY than anything else therefore , how necessary chipper , frivolous , and unimpressive it is . 
The capitalizing of the nouns I have already mentioned . 
But far before this virtue stands another that of spelling a word according to the sound of it . 
There are some German words which are singularly and powerfully effective . 
There are German songs which can make a stranger to the language cry . 
That shows that the SOUND of the words is correct it interprets the meanings with truth and with exactness and so the ear is informed , and through the ear , the heart . 
The Germans do not seem to be afraid to repeat a word when it is the right one . 
they repeat it several times , if they choose . 
Repetition may be bad , but surely inexactness is worse . 
I am not that kind of person . 
I have shown that the German language needs reforming . 
Very well , I am ready to reform it . 
At least I am ready to make the proper suggestions . 
In the first place , I would leave out the Dative case . 
The Dative case is but an ornamental folly it is better to discard it . 
In the next place , I would move the Verb further up to the front . 
You may load up with ever so good a Verb , but I notice that you never really bring down a subject with it at the present German range you only cripple it . 
So I insist that this important part of speech should be brought forward to a position where it may be easily seen with the naked eye . 
Thirdly , I would import some strong words from the English tongue to swear with , and also to use in describing all sorts of vigorous things in a vigorous ways . 
Verdammt , and its variations and enlargements , are words which have plenty of meaning , but the SOUNDS are so mild and ineffectual that German ladies can use them without sin . 
It sounds about as wicked as our My gracious . 
German ladies are constantly saying , Ach ! Gott ! Mein Gott ! Gott in Himmel ! Herr Gott Der Herr Jesus ! etc . 
Fourthly , I would reorganizes the sexes , and distribute them accordingly to the will of the creator . 
This as a tribute of respect , if nothing else . 
Fifthly , I would do away with those great long compounded words or require the speaker to deliver them in sections , with intermissions for refreshments . 
To wholly do away with them would be best , for ideas are more easily received and digested when they come one at a time than when they come in bulk . 
Intellectual food is like any other it is pleasanter and more beneficial to take it with a spoon than with a shovel . 
This sort of gewgaws undignify a speech , instead of adding a grace . 
They are , therefore , an offense , and should be discarded . 
Seventhly , I would discard the Parenthesis . 
Also the reparenthesis , the re reparenthesis , and the re re re re re reparentheses , and likewise the final wide reaching all enclosing king parenthesis . 
I would require every individual , be he high or low , to unfold a plain straightforward tale , or else coil it and sit on it and hold his peace . 
Infractions of this law should be punishable with death . 
And eighthly , and last , I would retain ZUG and SCHLAG , with their pendants , and discard the rest of the vocabulary . 
This would simplify the language . 
I have now named what I regard as the most necessary and important changes . 
in thirty hours , French in thirty days , and German in thirty years . 
It seems manifest , then , that the latter tongue ought to be trimmed down and repaired . 
If it is to remain as it is , it ought to be gently and reverently set aside among the dead languages , for only the dead have time to learn it . 
Wenn haber man kann nicht meinem Rede Verstehen , so werde ich ihm sp ater dasselbe ubersetz , wenn er solche Dienst verlangen wollen haben werden sollen sein h atte . 
Also ! Die Anblich so viele Grossbrittanischer und Amerikanischer hier zusammengetroffen in Bruderliche concord , ist zwar a welcome and inspiriting spectacle . 
They had fought through the wars and retired to private life covered with honorable scars . 
They were honest , honorable men in their dealings , but the people had given them a couple of nicknames which were very suggestive Herr Givenaught and Herr Heartless . 
The old knights were so proud of these names that if a burgher called them by their right ones they would correct them . 
The most renowned scholar in Europe , at the time , was the Herr Doctor Franz Reikmann , who lived in Heidelberg . 
All Germany was proud of the venerable scholar , who lived in the simplest way , for great scholars are always poor . 
He was poor , as to money , but very rich in his sweet young daughter Hildegarde and his library . 
He had been all his life collecting his library , book and book , and he lived it as a miser loves his hoarded gold . 
He said the two strings of his heart were rooted , the one in his daughter , the other in his books and that if either were severed he must die . 
But that was not the worst of it he signed a paper without reading it . 
That is the way with poets and scholars they always sign without reading . 
This cunning paper made him responsible for heaps of things . 
The rest was that one night he found himself in debt to the sharper eight thousand pieces of gold ! an amount so prodigious that it simply stupefied him to think of it . 
It was a night of woe in that house . 
I must part with my library I have nothing else . 
So perishes one heartstring , said the old man . 
What will it bring , father ? asked the girl . 
Nothing ! It is worth seven hundred pieces of gold but by auction it will go for little or nothing . 
Then you will have parted with the half of your heart and the joy of your life to no purpose , since so mighty of burden of debt will remain behind . 
There is no help for it , my child . 
Our darlings must pass under the hammer . 
We must pay what we can . 
My father , I have a feeling that the dear Virgin will come to our help . 
Let us not lose heart . 
She cannot devise a miracle that will turn NOTHING into eight thousand gold pieces , and lesser help will bring us little peace . 
She can do even greater things , my father . 
She will save us , I know she will . 
Three times has she appeared to me in my dreams , and said , 'Go to the Herr Givenaught , go to the Herr Heartless , ask them to come and bid . 
There , did I not tell you she would save us , the thrice blessed Virgin ! Sad as the old man was , he was obliged to laugh . 
Thou mightest as well appeal to the rocks their castles stand upon as to the harder ones that lie in those men's breasts , my child . 
THEY bid on books writ in the learned tongues ! they can scarce read their own . 
But Hildegarde's faith was in no wise shaken . 
Bright and early she was on her way up the Neckar road , as joyous as a bird . 
I tell you , said Givenaught , you will beggar yourself yet with your insane squanderings of money upon what you choose to consider poor and worthy objects . 
All these years I have implored you to stop this foolish custom and husband your means , but all in vain . 
You are always lying to me about these secret benevolences , but you never have managed to deceive me yet . 
Where I give one unfortunate a little private lift , you do the same for a dozen . 
Your life is a continual lie . 
But go on , I have tried MY best to save you from beggaring yourself by your riotous charities now for the thousandth time I wash my hands of the consequences . 
A maundering old fool ! that's what you are . 
And you a blethering old idiot ! roared Givenaught , springing up . 
I won't stay in the presence of a man who has no more delicacy than to call me such names . 
Mannerless swine ! So saying , Herr Heartless sprang up in a passion . 
But some lucky accident intervened , as usual , to change the subject , and the daily quarrel ended in the customary daily living reconciliation . 
The gray headed old eccentrics parted , and Herr Heartless walked off to his own castle . 
Half an hour later , Hildegarde was standing in the presence of Herr Givenaught . 
He said the hard words kindly , but they nearly broke poor Hildegarde's heart , nevertheless . 
When she was gone the old heartbreaker muttered , rubbing his hands It was a good stroke . 
I have saved my brother's pocket this time , in spite of him . 
Nothing else would have prevented his rushing off to rescue the old scholar , the pride of Germany , from his trouble . 
The poor child won't venture near HIM after the rebuff she has received from his brother the Givenaught . 
The Virgin had commanded , and Hildegarde would obey . 
She went to Herr Heartless and told her story . 
But he said coldly I am very poor , my child , and books are nothing to me . 
I wish you well , but I shall not come . 
When Hildegarde was gone , he chuckled and said How my fool of a soft headed soft hearted brother would rage if he knew how cunningly I have saved his pocket . 
How he would have flown to the old man's rescue ! But the girl won't venture near him now . 
When Hildegarde reached home , her father asked her how she had prospered . 
She said The Virgin has promised , and she will keep her word but not in the way I thought . 
She knows her own ways , and they are best . 
The old man patted her on the head , and smiled a doubting smile , but he honored her for her brave faith , nevertheless . 
Hildegarde and her father sat close to the books , silent and sorrowful , and holding each other's hands . 
There was a great crowd of people present . 
The bidding began How much for this precious library , just as it stands , all complete ? called the auctioneer . 
Fifty pieces of gold ! A hundred ! Two hundred . 
Three ! Four ! Five hundred ! Five twenty five . 
Five forty ! A longer pause , while the auctioneer redoubled his persuasions . 
Everybody in his vicinity turned and gazed at him . 
It was Givenaught in disguise . 
He was using a disguised voice , too . 
Good ! cried the auctioneer . 
Going , going one two Five hundred and sixty ! This , in a deep , harsh voice , from the midst of the crowd at the other end of the room . 
The people near by turned , and saw an old man , in a strange costume , supporting himself on crutches . 
He wore a long white beard , and blue spectacles . 
It was Herr Heartless , in disguise , and using a disguised voice . 
Good again ! Going , going one Six hundred ! Sensation . 
The crowd took it up , and shouted altogether , Well done , Crutches ! Splendid , gentlemen ! you are doing magnificently . 
The pride of Germany shall have his books if it beggars me to buy them for him . 
Givenaught shouldered his way to Hildegarde , whispered a word in her ear , and then he also vanished . 
APPENDIX F German Journals The daily journals of Hamburg , Frankfort , Baden , Munich , and Augsburg are all constructed on the same general plan . 
I speak of these because I am more familiar with them than with any other German papers . 
That is what a German daily is made of . 
A German daily is the slowest and saddest and dreariest of the inventions of man . 
Our own dailies infuriate the reader , pretty often the German daily only stupefies him . 
These are not unpleasant subjects they are not uninteresting subjects they are even exciting subjects until one of these massive scientists gets hold of them . 
He soon convinces you that even these matters can be handled in such a way as to make a person low spirited . 
As I have said , the average German daily is made up solely of correspondences a trifle of it by telegraph , the rest of it by mail . 
Every paragraph has the side head , London , Vienna , or some other town , and a date . 
Stars , crosses , triangles , squares , half moons , suns such are some of the signs used by correspondents . 
Some of the dailies move too fast , others too slowly . 
Some of the less important dailies give one a tablespoonful of a continued story every day it is strung across the bottom of the page , in the French fashion . 
By subscribing for the paper for five years I judge that a man might succeed in getting pretty much all of the story . 
It is like saying that the best daily paper in New York is published out in New Jersey somewhere . 
Yes , the Augsburg ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG is the best Munich paper , and it is the one I had in my mind when I was describing a first class German daily above . 
The entire paper , opened out , is not quite as large as a single page of the New York HERALD . 
Such is the first class daily . 
The dailies actually printed in Munich are all called second class by the public . 
If you ask which is the best of these second class papers they say there is no difference one is as good as another . 
I have preserved a copy of one of them it is called the MU NCHENER TAGES ANZEIGER , and bears date January , . 
Comparisons are odious , but they need not be malicious and without any malice I wish to compare this journals of other countries . 
I know of no other way to enable the reader to size the thing . 
A column of an average daily paper in America contains from , to , words the reading matter in a single issue consists of from , to , words . 
The reading matter in my copy of the Munich journal consists of a total of , words for I counted them . 
That would be nearly a column of one of our dailies . 
A single issue of the bulkiest daily newspaper in the world the London TIMES often contains , words of reading matter . 
The reading matter is compressed into two hundred and five small pica lines , and is lighted up with eight pica headlines . 
Perhaps a four line sermon in a Saturday paper is the sufficient German equivalent of the eight or ten columns of sermons which the New Yorkers get in their Monday morning papers . 
follows the four line sermon , under the pica headline Telegrams these are telegraphed with a pair of scissors out of the AUGSBURGER ZEITUNG of the day before . 
These telegrams consist of fourteen and two thirds lines from Berlin , fifteen lines from Vienna , and two and five eights lines from Calcutta . 
Thirty three small pica lines news in a daily journal in a King's Capital of one hundred and seventy thousand inhabitants is surely not an overdose . 
That concludes the first page . 
Eighty five lines , altogether , on that page , including three headlines . 
About fifty of those lines , as one perceives , deal with local matters so the reporters are not overworked . 
, and Death Notices , ten lines . 
The other half of the second page is made up of two paragraphs under the head of Miscellaneous News . 
to the boy , the heartless father considered him in the way so the unnatural parents determined to sacrifice him in the cruelest possible manner . 
They proceeded to starve him slowly to death , meantime frightfully maltreating him as the village people now make known , when it is too late . 
The boy was shut in a hole , and when people passed by he cried , and implored them to give him bread . 
His long continued tortures and deprivations destroyed him at last , on the third of January . 
death of the child created suspicion , the more so as the body was immediately clothed and laid upon the bier . 
Therefore the coroner gave notice , and an inquest was held on the th . 
What a pitiful spectacle was disclosed then ! The body was a complete skeleton . 
The stomach and intestines were utterly empty they contained nothing whatsoever . 
The flesh on the corpse was not as thick as the back of a knife , and incisions in it brought not one drop of blood . 
The cruel parents asserted that the boy had been so bad that they had been obliged to use severe punishments , and that he finally fell over a bench and broke his neck . 
However , they were arrested two weeks after the inquest and put in the prison at Deggendorf . 
Yes , they were arrested two weeks after the inquest . 
What a home sound that has . 
That kind of police briskness rather more reminds me of my native land than German journalism does . 
I think a German daily journal doesn't do any good to speak of , but at the same time it doesn't do any harm . 
That is a very large merit , and should not be lightly weighted nor lightly thought of . 
The German humorous papers are beautifully printed upon fine paper , and the illustrations are finely drawn , finely engraved , and are not vapidly funny , but deliciously so . 
So also , generally speaking , are the two or three terse sentences which accompany the pictures . 
I remember one of these pictures A most dilapidated tramp is ruefully contemplating some coins which lie in his open palm . 
He says Well , begging is getting played out . 
for the whole day many an official makes more ! And I call to mind a picture of a commercial traveler who is about to unroll his samples MERCHANT . 
I don't want to buy anything ! DRUMMER . 
If you please , I was only going to show you MERCHANT . 
But I don't wish to see them ! DRUMMER . 
