Agnes Grey by Anne Bronte Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
Whether this be the case with my history or not , I am hardly competent to judge . 
I sometimes think it might prove useful to some , and entertaining to others but the world may judge for itself . 
My mother , who married him against the wishes of her friends , was a squire's daughter , and a woman of spirit . 
A carriage and a lady's maid were great conveniences but , thank heaven , she had feet to carry her , and hands to minister to her own necessities . 
An elegant house and spacious grounds were not to be despised but she would rather live in a cottage with Richard Grey than in a palace with any other man in the world . 
He expected this would cool the ardour of both but he was mistaken . 
Of six children , my sister Mary and myself were the only two that survived the perils of infancy and early childhood . 
Mary and I were brought up in the strictest seclusion . 
I thought she must have been very happy but she never seemed to regret past times . 
At length , however , a kind friend suggested to him a means of doubling his private property at one stroke and further increasing it , hereafter , to an untold amount . 
My father was delighted , so were we all , with our brightening prospects . 
Disappointed he was and bitterly , too . 
I was grieved for him I was grieved for the overthrow of all our air built castles but , with the elasticity of youth , I soon recovered the shook . 
Though riches had charms , poverty had no terrors for an inexperienced girl like me . 
Indeed , to say the truth , there was something exhilarating in the idea of being driven to straits , and thrown upon our own resources . 
Mary did not lament , but she brooded continually over the misfortune , and sank into a state of dejection from which no effort of mine could rouse her . 
In vain my mother strove to cheer him , by appealing to his piety , to his courage , to his affection for herself and us . 
of the two maid servants , were dismissed . 
As for our carpets , they in time were worn threadbare , and patched and darned even to a greater extent than our garments . 
'Help me you cannot , Agnes and I cannot go out with YOU I have far too much to do . 
'Then let me help you . 
'You cannot , indeed , dear child . 
Go and practise your music , or play with the kitten . 
Under such circumstances , although I was not many degrees more useful than the kitten , my idleness was not entirely without excuse . 
Through all our troubles , I never but once heard my mother complain of our want of money . 
As summer was coming on she observed to Mary and me , 'What a desirable thing it would be for your papa to spend a few weeks at a watering place . 
I am convinced the sea air and the change of scene would be of incalculable service to him . 
But then , you see , there's no money , she added , with a sigh . 
We both wished exceedingly that the thing might be done , and lamented greatly that it could not . 
'Well , well ! said she , 'it's no use complaining . 
Possibly something might be done to further the project after all . 
Mary , you are a beautiful drawer . 
'It's worth while trying , however , my dear do you procure the drawings , and I'll endeavour to find a purchaser . 
'But I have another scheme in my head , mamma , and have had long , only I did not like to mention it . 
'Indeed ! pray tell us what it is . 
'I should like to be a governess . 
My mother uttered an exclamation of surprise , and laughed . 
I do not pretend to be able to instruct great girls but surely I could teach little ones and I should like it so much I am so fond of children . 
'But , mamma , I am above eighteen , and quite able to take care of myself , and others too . 
You do not know half the wisdom and prudence I possess , because I have never been tried . 
At that moment my father entered and the subject of our discussion was explained to him . 
'What , my little Agnes a governess ! cried he , and , in spite of his dejection , he laughed at the idea . 
'Yes , papa , don't YOU say anything against it I should like it so much and I am sure I could manage delightfully . 
'But , my darling , we could not spare you . 
And a tear glistened in his eye as he added 'No , no ! afflicted as we are , surely we are not brought to that pass yet . 
'Oh , no ! said my mother . 
'There is no necessity whatever for such a step it is merely a whim of her own . 
So you must hold your tongue , you naughty girl for , though you are so ready to leave us , you know very well we cannot part with YOU . 
I was silenced for that day , and for many succeeding ones but still I did not wholly relinquish my darling scheme . 
Mary got her drawing materials , and steadily set to work . 
I got mine too but while I drew , I thought of other things . 
At length , again , I mentioned it to my mother in private and , with some difficulty , got her to promise to assist me with her endeavours . 
My father's reluctant consent was next obtained , and then , though Mary still sighed her disapproval , my dear , kind mother began to look out for a situation for me . 
But so long and so entire had been my parents' seclusion from the world , that many weeks elapsed before a suitable situation could be procured . 
I , however , was glad to accept this , rather than refuse the situation which my parents were inclined to think the better plan . 
But some weeks more were yet to be devoted to preparation . 
How long , how tedious those weeks appeared to me ! Yet they were happy ones in the main full of bright hopes and ardent expectations . 
My dear friends looked so sad , and spoke so very kindly , that I could scarcely keep my eyes from overflowing but I still affected to be gay . 
And , perhaps , when I did these things again it would be with different feelings circumstances might be changed , and this house might never be my settled home again . 
To conceal my emotion , I buried my face in my hands , and they were presently bathed in tears . 
But the morning brought a renewal of hope and spirits . 
might return the same day . 
The gig rolled on I looked back my dear mother and sister were still standing at the door , looking after me , and waving their adieux . 
I returned their salute , and prayed God to bless them from my heart we descended the hill , and I could see them no more . 
'It's a coldish mornin' for you , Miss Agnes , observed Smith 'and a darksome 'un too but we's happen get to yon spot afore there come much rain to signify . 
'Yes , I hope so , replied I , as calmly as I could . 
'It's comed a good sup last night too . 
'But this cold wind will happen keep it off . 
We crossed the valley , and began to ascend the opposite hill . 
For the first time in my life I must stand alone there was no retreating now . 
I must enter that house , and introduce myself among its strange inhabitants . 
The lady , too , was somewhat chilly in her manner , as I discovered when I had time to reflect . 
She was a tall , spare , stately woman , with thick black hair , cold grey eyes , and extremely sallow complexion . 
With due politeness , however , she showed me my bedroom , and left me there to take a little refreshment . 
She led me into the dining room , where the family luncheon had been laid out . 
But this needed some apology with a feeble attempt at a laugh , I said , 'My hands are so benumbed with the cold that I can scarcely handle my knife and fork . 
'I daresay you would find it cold , replied she with a cool , immutable gravity that did not serve to re assure me . 
When the ceremony was concluded , she led me into the sitting room again , where she rang and sent for the children . 
He seems to scorn deception' . 
I replied I was quite willing to do so and at that moment my young pupils entered the apartment , with their two younger sisters . 
Master Tom Bloomfield was a well grown boy of seven , with a somewhat wiry frame , flaxen hair , blue eyes , small turned up nose , and fair complexion . 
Mary Ann was a tall girl too , somewhat dark like her mother , but with a round full face and a high colour in her cheeks . 
They , however , were remarkably free from shyness . 
In Mary Ann there was a certain affected simper , and a craving for notice , that I was sorry to observe . 
'Oh , Tom , what a darling you are ! exclaimed his mother . 
'And MY schoolroom , and MY new books , Tom , said Mary Ann . 
'They're MINE , replied he decisively . 
'Come along , Miss Grey I'll escort you . 
Then , ordering his sister to hold the reins , he mounted , and made me stand for ten minutes , watching how manfully he used his whip and spurs . 
'Oh , yes , I will ! said he , laying on with redoubled ardour . 
'I'll cut into him like smoke ! Eeh ! my word ! but he shall sweat for it . 
This was very shocking but I hoped in time to be able to work a reformation . 
'Now you must put on your bonnet and shawl , said the little hero , 'and I'll show you my garden . 
'And MINE , said Mary Ann . 
Tom lifted his fist with a menacing gesture she uttered a loud , shrill scream , ran to the other side of me , and made a face at him . 
'Surely , Tom , you would not strike your sister ! I hope I shall NEVER see you do that . 
'You will sometimes I'm obliged to do it now and then to keep her in order . 
'But it is not your business to keep her in order , you know that is for 'Well , now go and put on your bonnet . 
'I don't know it is so very cloudy and cold , it seems likely to rain and you know I have had a long drive . 
'No matter you MUST come I shall allow of no excuses , replied the consequential little gentleman . 
And , as it was the first day of our acquaintance , I thought I might as well indulge him . 
It was too cold for Mary Ann to venture , so she stayed with her mamma , to the great relief of her brother , who liked to have me all to himself . 
There were two round beds , stocked with a variety of plants . 
In one there was a pretty little rose tree . 
I paused to admire its lovely blossoms . 
'Oh , never mind that ! said he , contemptuously . 
'That's only MARY ANN'S garden look , THIS is mine . 
I observed , on the grass about his garden , certain apparatus of sticks and corn , and asked what they were . 
'Why do you catch them ? 'Papa says they do harm . 
'And what do you do with them when you catch them ? 'Different things . 
Sometimes I give them to the cat sometimes I cut them in pieces with my penknife but the next , I mean to roast alive . 
'Oh , pooh ! I shan't . 
Papa knows how I treat them , and he never blames me for it he says it is just what HE used to do when HE was a boy . 
So now , Miss Grey , you see it is NOT wicked . 
'I still think it is , Tom and perhaps your papa and mamma would think so too , if they thought much about it . 
When we re entered the house it was nearly tea time . 
Soon after tea , Mary Ann went to bed , but Tom favoured us with his company and conversation till eight . 
About half past nine , Mrs. Bloomfield invited me to partake of a frugal supper of cold meat and bread . 
She told me her nurse could do it in half the time , and , by keeping up a constant fidget of impatience , contrived to render me still longer . 
When all was done , we went into the schoolroom , where I met my other pupil , and chatted with the two till it was time to go down to breakfast . 
That meal being concluded , and a few civil words having been exchanged with Mrs. Bloomfield , we repaired to the schoolroom again , and commenced the business of the day . 
I found my pupils very backward , indeed but Tom , though averse to every species of mental exertion , was not without abilities . 
Mary Ann could scarcely read a word , and was so careless and inattentive that I could hardly get on with her at all . 
There we got along tolerably together , except that I found they had no notion of going with me I must go with them , wherever they chose to lead me . 
I must run , walk , or stand , exactly as it suited their fancy . 
But there was no remedy either I must follow them , or keep entirely apart from them , and thus appear neglectful of my charge . 
To day , they manifested a particular attachment to a well at the bottom of the lawn , where they persisted in dabbling with sticks and pebbles for above half an hour . 
Presently the bell rang to summon us in . 
I dined with the children at one , while he and his lady took their luncheon at the same table . 
His conduct there did not greatly raise him in my estimation . 
'What is the matter with the mutton , my dear ? asked his mate . 
The beef was set before him , and he began to carve , but with the most rueful expressions of discontent . 
'What is the matter with the BEEF , Mr. Bloomfield ? I'm sure I thought it was very nice . 
'And so it WAS very nice . 
A nicer joint could not be but it is QUITE spoiled , replied he , dolefully . 
Remember THAT , Mrs. Bloomfield ! Notwithstanding the ruinous state of the beef , the gentleman managed to out himself some delicate slices , part of which he ate in silence . 
When he next spoke , it was , in a less querulous tone , to ask what there was for dinner . 
'Turkey and grouse , was the concise reply . 
'And what besides ? 'Fish . 
'What kind of fish ? 'I don't know . 
'YOU DON'T KNOW ? cried he , looking solemnly up from his plate , and suspending his knife and fork in astonishment . 
I told the cook to get some fish I did not particularize what . 
But this is a very favourable specimen of a day's proceedings . 
My task of instruction and surveillance , instead of becoming easier as my charges and I got better accustomed to each other , became more arduous as their characters unfolded . 
The name of governess , I soon found , was a mere mockery as applied to me my pupils had no more notion of obedience than a wild , unbroken colt . 
The habitual fear of their father's peevish temper , and the dread of the punishments he was wont to inflict when irritated , kept them generally within bounds in his immediate presence . 
Other children might be guided by the fear of anger and the desire of approbation but neither the one nor the other had any effect upon these . 
To the difficulty of preventing him from doing what he ought not , was added that of forcing him to do what he ought . 
Often he would positively refuse to learn , or to repeat his lessons , or even to look at his book . 
Here , again , a good birch rod might have been serviceable but , as my powers were so limited , I must make the best use of what I had . 
Patience , Firmness , and Perseverance were my only weapons and these I resolved to use to the utmost . 
I determined always strictly to fulfil the threats and promises I made and , to that end , I must be cautious to threaten and promise nothing that I could not perform . 
unremitting patience and perseverance could overcome them and night and morning I implored Divine assistance to this end . 
The task of instruction was as arduous for the body as the mind . 
I had to run after my pupils to catch them , to carry or drag them to the table , and often forcibly to hold them there till the lesson was done . 
Sometimes he was determined to do his writing badly and I had to hold his hand to prevent him from purposely blotting or disfiguring the paper . 
Often she would stubbornly refuse to pronounce some particular word in her lesson and now I regret the lost labour I have had in striving to conquer her obstinacy . 
Sometimes , when she would ask me to do something for her , I would answer , 'Yes , I will , Mary Ann , if you will only say that word . 
Come ! you'd better say it at once , and have no more trouble about it . 
'Then , of course , I can do nothing for you . 
With me , at her age , or under , neglect and disgrace were the most dreadful of punishments but on her they made no impression . 
Often these dreadful cries would bring Mrs. Bloomfield up to inquire what was the matter ? 'Mary Ann is a naughty girl , ma'am . 
'But what are these shocking screams ? 'She is screaming in a passion . 
'I never heard such a dreadful noise ! You might be killing her . 
Why is she not out with her brother ? 'I cannot get her to finish her lessons . 
'But Mary Ann must be a GOOD girl , and finish her lessons . 
This was blandly spoken to the child . 
You are a good girl now , and , of course , you will say it . 
'Then I can't kiss you . 
'Well , I don't care . 
In MY childhood I could not imagine a more afflictive punishment than for my mother to refuse to kiss me at night the very idea was terrible . 
Another troublesome trait in Mary Ann was her incorrigible propensity to keep running into the nursery , to play with her little sisters and the nurse . 
Then , among the minor annoyances , was my inability to satisfy Mrs. Bloomfield with her daughter's dress and the child's hair 'was never fit to be seen . 
Sometimes , as a powerful reproach to me , she would perform the office of tire woman herself , and then complain bitterly of the trouble it gave her . 
'What a naughty girl Fanny is getting ! Mrs. Bloomfield would say to her spouse . 
'You may say that , was the answer . 
'I've been thinking that same myself . 
Yet she was not to blame in this . 
, and then , in all the bliss of solitude , I have given myself up to the luxury of an unrestricted burst of weeping . 
But this was a weakness I did not often indulge my employments were too numerous , my leisure moments too precious , to admit of much time being given to fruitless lamentations . 
I had got Tom pinned up in a corner , whence , I told him , he should not escape till he had done his appointed task . 
Meantime , Fanny had possessed herself of my work bag , and was rifling its contents and spitting into it besides . 
I told her to let it alone , but to no purpose , of course . 
'Burn it , Fanny ! cried Tom and THIS command she hastened to obey . 
I sprang to snatch it from the fire , and Tom darted to the door . 
I flew to rescue it . 
Meanwhile Tom had left the room , and was rushing down the stairs , followed by Fanny . 
Having secured my desk , I ran to catch them , and Mary Ann came scampering after . 
All three escaped me , and ran out of the house into the garden , where they plunged about in the snow , shouting and screaming in exultant glee . 
'But I INSIST upon their being got in ! cried he , approaching nearer , and looking perfectly ferocious . 
'Then , sir , you must call them yourself , if you please , for they won't listen to me , I replied , stepping back . 
'Come in with you , you filthy brats or I'll horsewhip you every one ! roared he and the children instantly obeyed . 
'There , you see ! they come at the first word ! 'Yes , when YOU speak . 
The senior Mrs. Bloomfield had been very attentive and civil to me and till now I had thought her a nice , kind hearted , chatty old body . 
, I had always been wishful to excuse them , and to give her credit for all the virtues she professed , and even imagine others yet untold . 
No wonder , then , that my heart warmed to the old lady , and always gladdened at her approach and regretted her departure . 
'It has always supported me through all my trials , and always will do' . 
At her next visit to Wellwood House , I went so far as to say I was glad to see her looking so well . 
I happened to be exalting my voice to enforce order , I was using undue violence , and setting the girls a bad example by such ungentleness of tone and language . 
Suddenly the door opened , and the dingy head of Mr. Bloomfield looked in . 
'All very quiet here ! What are you doing ? said he . 
'No harm TO DAY , at least , thought I. But he was of a different opinion . 
Advancing to the window , and seeing the children's occupations , he testily exclaimed 'What in the world are you about ? 'We're grinding egg shells , papa ! cried Tom . 
'Miss Grey , did you know what they were doing ? 'Yes , sir . 
'You knew it ? 'Yes . 
'You knew it ! and you actually sat there and permitted them to go on without a word of reproof ! 'I didn't think they were doing any harm . 
'What is the matter with my boy ? said she . 
And when the matter was explained to her , all she did was to send for the nursery maid to put the room in order , and bring Master Bloomfield his supper . 
'There now , cried Tom , triumphantly , looking up from his viands with his mouth almost too full for speech . 
'Oh , Miss Grey ! she would say , 'you have some trouble with them childer ! 'I have , indeed , Betty and I daresay you know what it is . 
'Ay , I do so ! But I don't vex myself o'er 'em as you do . 
Howsoever , I've lost my place for it . 
'Have you , Betty ? I heard you were going to leave . 
'Eh , bless you , yes ! Missis gave me warning a three wik sin' . 
She told me afore Christmas how it mud be , if I hit 'em again but I couldn't hold my hand off 'em at nothing . 
Fanny and little Harriet he seldom condescended to notice but Mary Ann was something of a favourite . 
and I never saw a child so susceptible of flattery as she was . 
Though not a positive drunkard , Mr. Robson habitually swallowed great quantities of wine , and took with relish an occasional glass of brandy and water . 
Mr. Robson likewise encouraged Tom's propensity to persecute the lower creation , both by precept and example . 
Mary Ann and Fanny , whom I was just bringing out , ran to admire his spoils , and to beg each a bird for themselves . 
'No , not one ! cried Tom . 
'But you shall see me fettle 'em off . 
My word , but I WILL wallop 'em ? See if I don't now . 
By gum ! but there's rare sport for me in that nest . 
'But , Tom , said I , 'I shall not allow you to torture those birds . 
They must either be killed at once or carried back to the place you took them from , that the old birds may continue to feed them . 
'But you don't know where that is , Madam it's only me and uncle Robson that knows that . 
'But if you don't tell me , I shall kill them myself much as I hate it . 
You daren't touch them for your life ! because you know papa and mamma , and uncle Robson , would be angry . 
Ha , ha ! I've caught you there , Miss ! 'I shall do what I think right in a case of this sort without consulting any one . 
If your papa and mamma don't happen to approve of it , I shall be sorry to offend them but your uncle Robson's opinions , of course , are nothing to me . 
With fiendish glee he commenced a list of torments and while he was busied in the relation , I dropped the stone upon his intended victims and crushed them flat beneath it . 
Tom flew towards him , vowing he would make him kick me instead of Juno . 
Mr. Robson leant upon his gun , and laughed excessively at the violence of his nephew's passion , and the bitter maledictions and opprobrious epithets he heaped upon me . 
'Well , you ARE a good 'un ! exclaimed he , at length , taking up his weapon and proceeding towards the house . 
'Damme , but the lad has some spunk in him , too . 
Curse me , if ever I saw a nobler little scoundrel than that . 
Tom next went to tell his mamma . 
It was not her way to say much on any subject but , when she next saw me , her aspect and demeanour were doubly dark and chilled . 
'When Master Bloomfield's amusements consist in injuring sentient creatures , I answered , 'I think it my duty to interfere . 
'You seemed to have forgotten , said she , calmly , 'that the creatures were all created for our convenience . 
I thought that doctrine admitted some doubt , but merely replied 'If they were , we have no right to torment them for our amusement . 
'I think , said she , 'a child's amusement is scarcely to be weighed against the welfare of a soulless brute . 
Blessed are the merciful , for they shall obtain mercy . 
'Oh ! of course but that refers to our conduct towards each other . 
The merciful man shows mercy to his beast , I ventured to add . 
I judged it prudent to say no more . 
Neither the one nor the other knew what it was to feel any degree of shamefacedness , or even common modesty . 
Mrs. Bloomfield had the sense to be shocked and annoyed at all this , but she had not sense to prevent it she expected me to prevent it . 
, Mrs. Bloomfield sent for me , and calmly told me that after Midsummer my services would be no longer required . 
Though superior to most children of their years in abilities , they were decidedly behind them in attainments their manners were uncultivated , and their tempers unruly . 
And this she attributed to a want of sufficient firmness , and diligent , persevering care on my part . 
Thus was I dismissed , and thus I sought my home . 
Having been thus weighed in the balance and found wanting , I need not hope they would be willing to try me again . 
I knew that all parents were not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield , and I was certain all children were not like theirs . 
The next family must be different , and any change must be for the better . 
No one triumphed over my failure , or said I had better have taken his or her advice , and quietly stayed at home . 
By dint of pinching here , and scraping there , our debts were already nearly paid . 
Mary had had good success with her drawings but our father had insisted upon HER likewise keeping all the produce of her industry to herself . 
My mother would never suffer him to ponder on the subject if she could help it . 
My mother laughed , and so did my father but his laugh soon perished in a dreary sigh . 
'THEY married poor penniless things ! said he 'who will take them I wonder ! 'Why , nobody shall that isn't thankful for them . 
Wasn't I penniless when you took me ? and you PRETENDED , at least , to be vastly pleased with your acquisition . 
But it's no matter whether they get married or not we can devise a thousand honest ways of making a livelihood . 
'I know , Alice , it is wrong to keep repining as I do , but I cannot help it you must bear with me . 
I cannot draw like Mary , and so the best thing I could do would be to look out for another situation . 
'And so you would actually try again , Agnes ? 'Decidedly , I would . 
'Why , my dear , I should have thought you had had enough of it . 
'I know , said I , 'everybody is not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield 'Some are worse , interrupted my mother . 
'Well , if they COULD not , it was not their fault you cannot expect stone to be as pliable as clay . 
'No , but still it is very unpleasant to live with such unimpressible , incomprehensible creatures . 
You cannot love them and if you could , your love would be utterly thrown away they could neither return it , nor value , nor understand it . 
'Well , my girl , you are not easily discouraged , I see I am glad of that . 
'Your talents are not such as every poor clergyman's daughter possesses , Agnes , she would say , 'and you must not throw them away . 
Remember , you promised to be patient there is no need of hurry you have plenty of time before you , and may have many chances yet . 
At length , she advised me to put an advertisement , myself , in the paper , stating my qualifications , c . 
The advertisement was quickly written and despatched . 
I was just to give a plain , true statement of my acquirements and qualifications , and name what stipulations I chose to make , and then await the result . 
The only stipulation I ventured to propose , was that I might be allowed two months' holidays during the year to visit my friends , at Midsummer and Christmas . 
, I wrote a most obliging epistle to my unknown correspondent , and , finally , the bargain was concluded . 
But this rendered it only the more piquant to me . 
At length we paused and , at the call of the driver , someone unlatched and rolled back upon their creaking hinges what appeared to be the park gates . 
After a considerable time we paused again , before the stately portico of a large house with long windows descending to the ground . 
I entered , and found two young ladies and two young gentlemen my future pupils , I supposed . 
After a formal greeting , the elder girl , who was trifling over a piece of canvas and a basket of German wools , asked if I should like to go upstairs . 
I replied in the affirmative , of course . 
'Matilda , take a candle , and show her her room , said she . 
, and through a long , narrow passage , to a small but tolerably comfortable room . 
She then asked me if I would take some tea or coffee . 
Saying she would tell 'Brown , the young lady departed and by the time I had divested myself of my heavy , wet cloak , shawl , bonnet , c . 
, a mincing damsel came to say the young ladies desired to know whether I would take my tea up there or in the schoolroom . 
Under the plea of fatigue I chose to take it there . 
She withdrew and , after a while , returned again with a small tea tray , and placed it on the chest of drawers , which served as a dressing table . 
Having civilly thanked her , I asked at what time I should be expected to rise in the morning . 
I desired her to be so kind as to call me at seven , and , promising to do so , she withdrew . 
Having shut the door upon their retiring footsteps , and unpacked a few of my things , I betook myself to rest gladly enough , for I was weary in body and mind . 
I descended to the schoolroom with no remarkable eagerness to join my pupils , though not without some feeling of curiosity respecting what a further acquaintance would reveal . 
One thing , among others of more obvious importance , I determined with myself I must begin with calling them Miss and Master . 
, in speaking to me . 
Frequently , indeed , his loud laugh reached me from afar and oftener still I heard him swearing and blaspheming against the footmen , groom , coachman , or some other hapless dependant . 
Her children evidently held the same opinion , and I alone thought otherwise . 
After this she looked in upon me once or twice , during the absence of my pupils , to enlighten me concerning my duties towards them . 
You will excuse my naming these things to you for the fact is , I have hitherto found all the governesses , even the very best of them , faulty in this particular . 
They wanted that meek and quiet spirit , which St . 
Matthew , or some of them , says is better than the putting on of apparel you will know the passage to which I allude , for you are a clergyman's daughter . 
But I have no doubt you will give satisfaction in this respect as well as the rest . 
And make them as happy as you can , Miss Grey , and I dare say you will do very well . 
I wish I could say as much for mind and disposition as I can for her form and face . 
Yet think not I have any dreadful disclosures to make she was lively , light hearted , and could be very agreeable , with those who did not cross her will . 
But enough of her now let us turn to her sister . 
Miss Matilda Murray was a veritable hoyden , of whom little need be said . 
She was about two years and a half younger than her sister her features were larger , her complexion much darker . 
She might possibly make a handsome woman but she was far too big boned and awkward ever to be called a pretty girl , and at present she cared little about it . 
The manner in which she learnt her lessons and practised her music was calculated to drive any governess to despair . 
As a moral agent , Matilda was reckless , headstrong , violent , and unamenable to reason . 
One proof of the deplorable state of her mind was , that from her father's example she had learned to swear like a trooper . 
Her mother was greatly shocked at the 'unlady like trick , and wondered 'how she had picked it up . 
I was not delivered from his brother till full twelve months after , when he also was despatched in the same state of disgraceful ignorance as the former . 
Master Charles was his mother's peculiar darling . 
His minute portions of Latin grammar , c . 
A few more observations about Horton Lodge and its ongoings , and I have done with dry description for the present . 
We were situated nearly two miles from the village church , and , consequently , the family carriage was put in requisition every Sunday morning , and sometimes oftener . 
If I were called upon to give a description of the usual divisions and arrangements of the day , I should find it a very difficult matter . 
Their hours of study were managed in much the same way my judgment or convenience was never once consulted . 
It was quite right that they should be hardy yet , surely , they might have been taught some consideration for others who were less so . 
Their indecorous manner of doing their lessons was quite as remarkable as the caprice displayed in their choice of time and place . 
The servants , seeing in what little estimation the governess was held by both parents and children , regulated their behaviour by the same standard . 
, and the girls , as I intimated before concerning one of them , became a little less insolent , and began to show some symptoms of esteem . 
Of course , she looked forward to it with the wildest impatience , and the most extravagant anticipations of delight . 
She seated herself on the low stool at my feet and I , suppressing a sigh of vexation , began to fold up the epistle . 
You should see the charming little lady like notes mamma writes to her friends . 
'The good people at home , replied I , 'know very well that the longer their letters are , the better I like them . 
'Well , I only said it to tease you . 
But now I want to talk about the ball and to tell you that you positively must put off your holidays till it is over . 
'Why so ? I shall not be present at the ball . 
'No , but you will see the rooms decked out before it begins , and hear the music , and , above all , see me in my splendid new dress . 
I shall be so charming , you'll be ready to worship me you really must stay . 
'Oh , never mind your friends ! Tell them we won't let you go . 
'But , to say the truth , it would be a disappointment to myself I long to see them as much as they to see me perhaps more . 
'Well , but it is such a short time . 
'Nearly a fortnight by my computation and , besides , I cannot bear the thoughts of a Christmas spent from home and , moreover , my sister is going to be married . 
'Is she when ? 'Not till next month but I want to be there to assist her in making preparations , and to make the best of her company while we have her . 
'Why didn't you tell me before ? 'I've only got the news in this letter , which you stigmatize as dull and stupid , and won't let me read . 
'To whom is she to be married ? 'To Mr. Richardson , the vicar of a neighbouring parish . 
'Is he rich ? 'No only comfortable . 
'Is he handsome ? 'No only decent . 
'Young ? 'No only middling . 
How CAN she bear it ? 'I expect she'll not only be able to bear it , but to be very happy . 
'Oh ! that's better then they're well matched but do they call him the worthy vicar ? 'I don't know but if they do , I believe he merits the epithet . 
'No damn it , no ! shouted Miss Matilda . 
'Well , I can't help it but I'll never say a wicked word again , if you'll only listen to me , and tell Rosalie to hold her confounded tongue . 
'Oh , Matilda ! what stories you are telling ! exclaimed her sister . 
'Well , now get along , replied Miss Murray 'and do , dear Matilda , try to be a little more lady like . 
It nearly puts me into fits when she begins . 
'I learned it from papa , you ass ! and his jolly friends , said the young lady , vigorously cracking a hunting whip , which she habitually carried in her hand . 
'I'm as good judge of horseflesh as the best of 'm . 
'Well , now get along , you shocking girl ! I really shall take a fit if you go on in such a way . 
And now , Miss Grey , attend to me I'm going to tell you about the ball . 
You must be dying to hear about it , I know . 
Oh , SUCH a ball ! You never saw or heard , or read , or dreamt of anything like it in all your life . 
As for me , Miss Grey I'm so SORRY you didn't see me ! I was CHARMING wasn't I , Matilda ? 'Middling . 
'No , but I really was at least so mamma said and Brown and Williamson . 
Brown said she was sure no gentleman could set eyes on me without falling in love that minute and so I may be allowed to be a little vain . 
'Oh , but you know I never agree with you on those points . 
Now , wait a bit , and I'll tell you my principal admirers those who made themselves very conspicuous that night and after for I've been to two parties since . 
I haven't told you half yet . 
Sir Thomas is young , rich , and gay but an ugly beast , nevertheless however , mamma says I should not mind that after a few months' acquaintance . 
'Was Mr. Hatfield at the ball ? 'Yes , to he sure . 
Did you think he was too good to go ? 'I thought be might consider it unclerical . 
'And what is the new one like ? 'Oh , SUCH a beast ! Weston his name is . 
I can give you his description in three words an insensate , ugly , stupid blockhead . 
That's four , but no matter enough of HIM now . 
Meltham , Green , and Hatfield , and the ineffaceable impression she had wrought upon each of them . 
'Well , which of the four do you like best ? said I , suppressing my third or fourth yawn . 
'I detest them all ! replied she , shaking her bright ringlets in vivacious scorn . 
But the one I'm to have , I suppose , if I'm doomed to have any of them , is Sir Thomas Ashby . 
But if I could be always young , I would be always single . 
'Well , as long as you entertain these views , keep single by all means , and never marry at all not even to escape the infamy of old maidenhood . 
'I can scarcely tell , was my reply 'I have not even heard him preach . 
'Well , but you saw him , didn't you ? 'Yes , but I cannot pretend to judge of a man's character by a single cursory glance at his face . 
'Oh , yes , that's all he is good for he can plod through the service well enough but he has not a single idea beyond it . 
'How do you know ? 'Oh ! I know perfectly well I am an excellent judge in such matters . 
'I suppose you would have had him cast a glance into the squire's pew , said I , laughing at the vehemence of her hostility . 
I was well pleased to observe that the new curate resembled him , as far as I could see , in none of these particulars . 
'Well , Miss Grey , what do you think of him now ? said Miss Murray , as we took our places in the carriage after service . 
'No harm still , replied I. 'No harm ! repeated she in amazement . 
'What do you mean ? 'I mean , I think no worse of him than I did before . 
'You shan't have him all to yourself , Rosalie , said Miss Matilda at the close of this discussion 'I like him I know he'd make a nice , jolly companion for me . 
'Well , you're quite welcome to him , Matilda , replied her sister , in a tone of affected indifference . 
'And I'm sure , continued the other , 'he admires me quite as much as he does you doesn't he , Miss Grey ? 'I don't know I'm not acquainted with his sentiments . 
'Well , but he DOES though . 
'My DEAR Matilda ! nobody will ever admire you till you get rid of your rough , awkward manners . 
'Oh , stuff ! Harry Meltham likes such manners and so do papa's friends . 
'Well , you MAY captivate old men , and younger sons but nobody else , I am sure , will ever take a fancy to you . 
'I don't care I'm not always grabbing after money , like you and mamma . 
Really , Miss Grey , you should not let her do so . 
'I can't possibly prevent it , Miss Murray . 
'And you're quite mistaken , Matilda , in supposing that Harry Meltham admires you I assure you he does nothing of the kind . 
, partly to wandering in the grounds or adjacent fields , with my pupils if they wanted me , alone if they did not . 
They never , in thought , exchanged places with them and , consequently , had no consideration for their feelings , regarding them as an order of beings entirely different from themselves . 
I could see that the people were often hurt and annoyed by such conduct , though their fear of the 'grand ladies' prevented them from testifying any resentment but THEY never perceived it . 
I congratulated her upon the change . 
'I hope He will , Nancy , replied I 'and , meantime , I'll come and read to you now and then , when I have a little time to spare . 
John , that says , God is love , and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God , and God in him . 
With a little searching , I found these words in the fourth chapter . 
'Ay , he does so and talks well too . 
'Does he ? 'He does . 
Maybe , you haven't seen him not to talk to him much , yet ? 'No , I never see any one to talk to except the young ladies of the Hall . 
'Ah they're nice , kind young ladies but they can't talk as he does . 
'Then he comes to see you , Nancy ? 'He does , Miss and I'se thankful for it . 
I was sore distressed , Miss Grey thank God , it's owered now but when I took my Bible , I could get no comfort of it at all . 
That very chapter 'at you've just been reading troubled me as much as aught He that loveth not , knoweth not God . 
It seemed fearsome to me for I felt that I loved neither God nor man as I should do , and could not , if I tried ever so . 
And th' chapter afore , where it says , He that is born of God cannot commit sin . 
And another place where it says , Love is the fulfilling of the Law . 
And many , many others , Miss I should fair weary you out , if I was to tell them all . 
'And what did he say , Nancy ? 'Why , Miss , he seemed to scorn me . 
But I telled him I'd never been near the Methodies . 
And then he said , Well , says he , you must come to church , where you'll hear the Scriptures properly explained , instead of sitting poring over your Bible at home . 
'But he says , It'll do your rheumatiz good to hobble to church there's nothing like exercise for the rheumatiz . 
You can walk about the house well enough why can't you walk to church ? The fact is , says he , you're getting too fond of your ease . 
It's always easy to find excuses for shirking one's duty . 
'But then , you know , Miss Grey , it wasn't so . 
However , I telled him I'd try . 
It's your duty to go there as often as you can . 
If you want comfort , you must seek it in the path of duty , an' a deal more he said , but I cannot remember all his fine words . 
But if you get no comfort that way , says he , it's all up . 
That last word o' his fair sunk into my heart , an' lay there like a lump o' lead , till I was weary to bear it . 
'Howsever , I follered his advice I thought he meant it all for th' best , though he HAD a queer way with him . 
But you know , Miss , he's rich an' young , and such like cannot right understand the thoughts of a poor old woman such as me . 
But , howsever , I did my best to do all as he bade me but maybe I'm plaguing you , Miss , wi' my chatter . 
'Oh , no , Nancy ! Go on , and tell me all . 
'Well , my rheumatiz got better I know not whether wi' going to church or not , but one frosty Sunday I got this cold i' my eyes . 
It seemed like as all were barren an' dark to me . 
And then , them dreadful words , Many shall seek to enter in , and shall not be able . 
They like as they fair dried up my sperrit . 
I hardly could fashion to take such a liberty , but I thought when my soul was at stake I shouldn't stick at a trifle . 
But he said he hadn't time to attend to me then . 
And , indeed , says he , I've nothing to say to you but what I've said before . 
Take the sacrament , of course , and go on doing your duty and if that won't serve you , nothing will . 
So don't bother me any more . 
'So then , I went away . 
'And I heard him ask Maister Hatfield who I was , an' he says , Oh , she's a canting old fool . 
'And I was very ill grieved , Miss Grey but I went to my seat , and I tried to do my duty as aforetime but I like got no peace . 
An' I even took the sacrament but I felt as though I were eating and drinking to my own damnation all th' time . 
So I went home , sorely troubled . 
But now sit down a minute , if you can spare the time , and tell me all your doubts and fears and I'll try to remove them . 
'So I sat me down anent him . 
But you can't expect a cat to know manners like a Christian , you know , Miss Grey . 
'No of course not , Nancy . 
And if God so loveth us , that He gave His only begotten Son to die for us , we ought also to love one another . 
The more happiness we bestow , the more we shall receive , even here and the greater will be our reward in heaven when we rest from our labours . 
I believe , Miss , them is his very words , for I've thought 'em ower many a time . 
'After he was gone , Hannah Rogers , one o' th' neighbours , came in and wanted me to help her to wash . 
I telled her I couldn't just then , for I hadn't set on th' potaties for th' dinner , nor washed up th' breakfast stuff yet . 
So then she began a calling me for my nasty idle ways . 
So then she softened down and my heart like as it warmed towards her , an' in a bit we was very good friends . 
An' so it is , Miss Grey , a soft answer turneth away wrath but grievous words stir up anger . 
It isn't only in them you speak to , but in yourself . 
'Very true , Nancy , if we could always remember it . 
So I thought I couldn't do better nor knit him a pair o' warm stockings an' I've felt to like him a deal better , poor old man , sin' I began . 
It's turned out just as Maister Weston said . 
At another time I went to read to a poor labourer who was in the last stage of consumption . 
I went , willingly enough and there too I was gratified with the praises of Mr. Weston , both from the sick man and his wife . 
My only companions had been unamiable children , and ignorant , wrong headed girls from whose fatiguing folly , unbroken solitude was often a relief most earnestly desired and dearly prized . 
But to be restricted to such associates was a serious evil , both in its immediate effects and the consequences that were likely to ensue . 
Habitual associates are known to exercise a great influence over each other's minds and manners . 
I was glad to see that all the world was not made up of Bloomfields , Murrays , Hatfields , Ashbys , c . 
and that human excellence was not a mere dream of the imagination . 
I comforted her with as many anecdotes of that animal's roving propensities as I could recollect . 
'I'm feared o' th' gamekeepers , said she 'that's all 'at I think on . 
So I proposed to help her a little , after I had read to her , for I had plenty of time that evening , and need not return till dusk . 
She thankfully accepted the offer . 
'An' you'll be a bit o' company for me too , Miss , said she 'I like as I feel lonesome without my cat . 
I now saw that he could smile , and very pleasantly too . 
'I've done you a piece of good service , Nancy , he began then seeing me , he acknowledged my presence by a slight bow . 
I should have been invisible to Hatfield , or any other gentleman of those parts . 
'I've delivered your cat , he continued , 'from the hands , or rather the gun , of Mr. Murray's gamekeeper . 
'God bless you , sir ! cried the grateful old woman , ready to weep for joy as she received her favourite from his arms . 
I believe it is raining , Miss Grey , added he , more quietly , observing that I had put aside my work , and was preparing to depart . 
'Don't let me disturb you I shan't stay two minutes . 
'You'll BOTH stay while this shower gets owered , said Nancy , as she stirred the fire , and placed another chair beside it 'what ! there's room for all . 
He listened with a quiet , good natured smile , and at length took a seat in compliance with her pressing invitations , but repeated that he did not mean to stay . 
'someone else has been reading to you . 
'Yes , sir Miss Grey has been as kind as read me a chapter an' now she's helping me with a shirt for our Bill but I'm feared she'll be cold there . 
Won't you come to th' fire , Miss ? 'No , thank you , Nancy , I'm quite warm . 
I must go as soon as this shower is over . 
'Oh , Miss ! You said you could stop while dusk ! cried the provoking old woman , and Mr. Weston seized his hat . 
'Nay , sir , exclaimed she , 'pray don't go now , while it rains so fast . 
'But it strikes me I'm keeping your visitor away from the fire . 
'No , you're not , Mr. Weston , replied I , hoping there was no harm in a falsehood of that description . 
'No , sure ! cried Nancy . 
He was by when I rescued Nancy's cat , and did not quite approve of the deed . 
'Oh , lawful sir ! I hope you didn't fall out wi' th' maister for sake o' my cat ! he cannot bide answering again can th' maister . 
'Ay , sir it's a pity . 
'And now , I really must go . 
Good evening , Miss Grey . 
'Good evening , Mr. Weston but don't depend upon me for making your peace with Mr. Murray , for I never see him to speak to . 
I thought you would not be back from your ride . 
'How could I ride in the rain , I should like to know . 
'No , of course you were under shelter yourself , and you never thought of other people . 
But she soon betook herself to the stables , and left me to the quiet enjoyment of my solitary meal . 
Indeed , this was the best policy for to submit and oblige was the governess's part , to consult their own pleasure was that of the pupils . 
But when I did walk , the first half of journey was generally a great nuisance to me . 
, and the Misses Murray , who , of course , contrived to join them . 
Such a discovery would make my eyes gush out with water , no doubt but that was one of my greatest enjoyments now . 
Immediately the flowers were gathered , and in my hand . 
A somewhat rapid walk for me was but an ordinary pace for him . 
'Your young ladies have left you alone , said he . 
'Yes , they are occupied with more agreeable company . 
'Then don't trouble yourself to overtake them . 
At length , however , he broke the pause by asking , with a certain quiet abruptness peculiar to himself , if I liked flowers . 
'Yes very much , I answered , 'wild flowers especially . 
'I like wild flowers , said he 'others I don't care about , because I have no particular associations connected with them except one or two . 
What are your favourite flowers ? 'Primroses , blue bells , and heath blossoms . 
'Not violets ? 'No because , as you say , I have no particular associations connected with them for there are no sweet violets among the hills and valleys round my home . 
'Oh , yes , you could , said he , with a thoughtful smile . 
'The ties that bind us to life are tougher than you imagine , or than anyone can who has not felt how roughly they may be pulled without breaking . 
You might be miserable without a home , but even YOU could live and not so miserably as you suppose . 
The human heart is like india rubber a little swells it , but a great deal will not burst it . 
If little more than nothing will disturb it , little less than all things will suffice to break it . 
As in the outer members of our frame , there is a vital power inherent in itself that strengthens it against external violence . 
'I speak from experience partly my own . 
'You don't know what happiness lies before you yet , said I 'you are now only in the commencement of your journey . 
'The best of happiness , replied he , 'is mine already the power and the will to be useful . 
I had heard before that he had lost his mother not many months before he came . 
She then was the last and dearest of his early friends and he had NO HOME . 
I pitied him from my heart I almost wept for sympathy . 
'But , thought I , 'he is not so miserable as I should be under such a deprivation he leads an active life and a wide field for useful exertion lies before him . 
He can MAKE friends and he can make a home too , if he pleases and , doubtless , he will please some time . 
By this time the Greens had taken themselves to their own abode , and the Murrays had turned down the private road , whither I hastened to follow them . 
But she still went on talking such intolerable stuff her sister helping her with appropriate fiction coined for the occasion that I thought it necessary to say something in my own justification . 
'What folly all this is ! I exclaimed . 
'Where ? where ? and when ? cried they eagerly . 
'Ah ha ! you've met him there , have you ? exclaimed Rosalie , with exultant laughter . 
'Ah ! now , Matilda , I've found out why she's so fond of going to Nancy Brown's ! She goes there to flirt with Mr. Weston . 
That wish that prayer both men and women would have scorned me for 'But , Father , THOU wilt NOT despise ! I said , and felt that it was true . 
It seemed to me that another's welfare was at least as ardently implored for as my own nay , even THAT was the principal object of my heart's desire . 
I might have been deceiving myself but that idea gave me confidence to ask , and power to hope I did not ask in vain . 
CHAPTER XIV THE RECTOR THE following day was as fine as the preceding one . 
At my feet lay a little rough terrier . 
It was the property of Miss Matilda but she hated the animal , and intended to sell it , alleging that it was quite spoiled . 
It was really an excellent dog of its kind but she affirmed it was fit for nothing , and had not even the sense to know its own mistress . 
But how could I help it ? I could not make the dog hate me by cruel treatment , and she would not propitiate him by kindness . 
However , while I thus sat , working away with my pencil , Mrs. Murray came , half sailing , half bustling , into the room . 
'I WONDER you don't put on your bonnet and go out with the young ladies . 
'I think , ma'am , Miss Murray is reading and Miss Matilda is amusing herself with her dogs . 
However , I don't want to vex you , added she , seeing , I suppose , that my cheeks burned and my hand trembled with some unamiable emotion . 
'Do , pray , try not to be so touchy there's no speaking to you else . 
Here was a poser for me . 
'I could always manage to have business here , if I knew precisely when and where to find you . 
'But if I would , I could not inform you , for I am so immethodical , I never can tell to day what I shall do tomorrow . 
'Then give me that , meantime , to comfort me , said he , half jestingly and half in earnest , extending his hand for the sprig of myrtle . 
'No , indeed , I shan't . 
'Do ! PRAY do ! I shall be the most miserable of men if you don't . 
You cannot be so cruel as to deny me a favour so easily granted and yet so highly prized ! pleaded he as ardently as if his life depended on it . 
By this time I stood within a very few yards of them , impatiently waiting his departure . 
'There then ! take it and go , said Rosalie . 
'Well , your mamma thinks you ought not to go beyond the park or garden without some discreet , matronly person like me to accompany you , and keep off all intruders . 
She bothered me before about Mr. Hatfield and I told her she might trust me I never should forget my rank and station for the most delightful man that ever breathed . 
Love ! I detest the word ! As applied to one of our sex , I think it a perfect insult . 
A preference I MIGHT acknowledge but never for one like poor Mr. Hatfield , who has not seven hundred a year to bless himself with . 
For it's no great matter , really he'll be all right when he's married , as mamma says and reformed rakes make the best husbands , EVERYBODY knows . 
'But Mr. Hatfield thinks you like him all this time you don't consider how bitterly he will be disappointed when he finds himself mistaken . 
'NO , indeed ! It will be a proper punishment for his presumption for ever DARING to think I could like him . 
I should enjoy nothing so much as lifting the veil from his eyes . 
'The sooner you do it the better then . 
'No I tell you , I like to amuse myself with him . 
Besides , he doesn't really think I like him . 
I take good care of that you don't know how cleverly I manage . 
He may presume to think he can induce me to like him for which I shall punish him as he deserves . 
Three days passed away , and he did not make his appearance . 
I'll come and meet you when I've done it . 
Be quick , will you and oh , wait hadn't you better read to him a bit ? Run to the house and get some sort of a good book . 
By sending me to the house for a book , she had just prevented my meeting him on the road . 
'Never mind ! thought I , 'there'll be no great harm done . 
Mark Wood was the consumptive labourer whom I mentioned before . 
He was now rapidly wearing away . 
I have omitted to give a detail of his words , from a notion that they would not interest the reader as they did me , and not because I have forgotten them . 
Such a confession will look very absurd , I fear but no matter I have written it and they that read it will not know the writer . 
'Well , what is it ? 'Oh , SUCH news ! In the first place , you must know that Mr. Hatfield came upon me just after you were gone . 
I'll tell you all he said another time . 
'But what did YOU say I'm more interested in that ? 'I'll tell you that , too , at some future period . 
I happened to be in a very good humour just then but , though I was complaisant and gracious enough , I took care not to compromise myself in any possible way . 
You should have SEEN how his countenance fell ! He went perfectly white in the face . 
But if they could , said he , would yours be wanting ? Certainly , Mr. Hatfield , I replied , with a cool decision which quelled all hope at once . 
Oh , if you had seen how dreadfully mortified he was how crushed to the earth by his disappointment ! really , I almost pitied him myself . 
'One more desperate attempt , however , he made . 
Certainly , said I. That would make no difference whatever . 
'It was a great lie , but he looked so confident in his own attractions still , that I determined not to leave him one stone upon another . 
He looked me full in the face but I kept my countenance so well that he could not imagine I was saying anything more than the actual truth . 
Then it's all over , I suppose , he said , looking as if he could have died on the spot with vexation and the intensity of his despair . 
But he was angry as well as disappointed . 
I will not suppose , Miss Murray , that you know how deeply you have injured me . 
On the contrary , I have always found your sex the kindest and most tender and obliging of God's creation , till now . 
if my presence is disagreeable to you , Miss Murray , you have only to promise me the favour I named , and I will relieve you at once . 
There are many ladies some even in this parish who would be delighted to accept what you have so scornfully trampled under your feet . 
What do your mean , sir ? said I , ready to stamp with passion . 
You promise it ? Yes , I answered for I wanted to get rid of him now . 
'But you have broken your promise already , said I , truly horrified at her perfidy . 
'Oh ! it's only to you I know you won't repeat it . 
'No , indeed , she won't . 
We shall not tell her at all , unless it be under the promise of the strictest secrecy . 
'But how can you expect her to keep her promises better than her more enlightened mistress ? 'Well , well , she shan't hear it then , said Miss Murray , somewhat snappishly . 
'But you will tell your mamma , of course , pursued I 'and she will tell your papa . 
'Of course I shall tell mamma that is the very thing that pleases me so much . 
I shall now be able to convince her how mistaken she was in her fears about me . 
'Oh , THAT'S it , is it ? I was wondering what it was that delighted you so much . 
'The greater his agony , I should think , the less your cause for gratification . 
'Oh , nonsense ! cried the young lady , shaking herself with vexation . 
'You either can't understand me , or you won't . 
If I had not confidence in your magnanimity , I should think you envied me . 
Here's Matilda I'll see what she and mamma have to say about it . 
She left me , offended at my want of sympathy , and thinking , no doubt , that I envied her . 
I did not at least , I firmly believed I did not . 
But , God knows best , I concluded . 
There are , I suppose , some men as vain , as selfish , and as heartless as she is , and , perhaps , such women may be useful to punish them . 
'There's no inducement to go out now and nothing to look forward to . 
The days will be so long and dull when there are no parties to enliven them and there are none this week , or next either , that I know of . 
'Pity you were so cross to him , observed Matilda , to whom this lamentation was addressed . 
'He'll never come again and I suspect you liked him after all . 
I hoped you would have taken him for your beau , and left dear Harry to me . 
'Humph ! my beau must be an Adonis indeed , Matilda , the admired of all beholders , if I am to be contented with him alone . 
I'm sorry to lose Hatfield , I confess but the first decent man , or number of men , that come to supply his place , will be more than welcome . 
It's Sunday to morrow I do wonder how he'll look , and whether he'll be able to go through the service . 
Most likely he'll pretend he's got a cold , and make Mr. Weston do it all . 
'Not he ! exclaimed Matilda , somewhat contemptuously . 
'Fool as he is , he's not so soft as that comes to . 
Her sister was slightly offended but the event proved Matilda was right the disappointed lover performed his pastoral duties as usual . 
Rosalie , indeed , affirmed he looked very pale and dejected he might be a little paler but the difference , if any , was scarcely perceptible . 
Mr. Hatfield had doubtless received a very severe blow but his pride impelled him to use every effort to conceal the effects of it . 
At length I was called upon , one fine morning , to accompany her in a walk to the village . 
'Why , said I , 'I thought you wanted to live in London yourself . 
On entering the shop , Miss Murray desired me to stand in the doorway while she transacted her business , and tell her if anyone passed . 
But alas ! there was no one visible besides the villagers , except Jane and Susan Green coming down the single street , apparently returning from a walk . 
'Stupid things ! muttered she , as she came out after having concluded her bargain . 
'Why couldn't they have their dolt of a brother with them ? even he would be better than nothing . 
She greeted them , however , with a cheerful smile , and protestations of pleasure at the happy meeting equal to their own . 
But this time I was not long alone . 
'You are alone again , Miss Grey , said he . 
'What kind of people are those ladies the Misses Green ? 'I really don't know . 
'Indeed ? They don't strike me as being particularly reserved . 
The fault may be partly in myself , but I hope not altogether . 
But your pupils should be companions for you in some degree they cannot be many years younger than yourself . 
'Perhaps you are too wise for them . 
How do you amuse yourself when alone do you read much ? 'Reading is my favourite occupation , when I have leisure for it and books to read . 
'And why should he interest himself at all in my moral and intellectual capacities what is it to him what I think or feel ? I asked myself . 
And my heart throbbed in answer to the question . 
But Jane and Susan Green soon reached their home . 
of being seen as well as heard . 
If her conversation was light and trivial , it was amusing , and she was never at a loss for something to say , or for suitable words to express it in . 
When he was gone she began to laugh , and muttered to herself , 'I thought I could do it ! 'Do what ? I asked . 
'What in the world do you mean ? 'I mean that he will go home and dream of me . 
I have shot him through the heart ! 'How do you know ? 'By many infallible proofs more especially the look he gave me when he went away . 
It was not an impudent look I exonerate him from that it was a look of reverential , tender adoration . 
I could only answer by monosyllables . 
Right glad was I to get into the house , and find myself alone once more in my own room . 
CHAPTER XVI THE SUBSTITUTION NEXT Sunday was one of the gloomiest of April days a day of thick , dark clouds , and heavy showers . 
Sometimes , such thoughts would give me trouble enough but sometimes I could quiet them with thinking it is not the man , it is his goodness that I love . 
'Whatsoever things are pure , whatsoever things are lovely , whatsoever things are honest and of good report , think on these things . 
Almost immediately after the conclusion of the service , Miss Murray left the church . 
We had to stand in the porch , for it was raining , and the carriage was not yet come . 
He promised to do so . 
Here was a wonderful instance of consideration from the thoughtless Miss Murray . 
Mr. Weston named an hour in the morning at which he would endeavour , to be there . 
By this time the carriage was ready , and the footman was waiting , with an open umbrella , to escort Miss Murray through the churchyard . 
I was about to follow but Mr. Weston had an umbrella too , and offered me the benefit of its shelter , for it was raining heavily . 
'No , thank you , I don't mind the rain , I said . 
I always lacked common sense when taken by surprise . 
The carriage was now in motion . 
Miss Murray bent forwards , and looked out of the window as we were passing Mr. Weston . 
He was pacing homewards along the causeway , and did not turn his head . 
'Stupid ass ! cried she , throwing herself back again in the seat . 
It made me think my hopes were not entirely the offspring of my wishes and imagination . 
'I mean to take up Mr. Weston instead of Mr. Hatfield , said my companion , after a short pause , resuming something of her usual cheerfulness . 
'I don't suppose he will ask me to marry him , nor should I desire it that would be rather too much presumption ! but I intend him to feel my power . 
'Oh ! that some kind spirit would whisper those words in his ear , I inwardly exclaimed . 
I was far too indignant to hazard a reply to her observation aloud and nothing more was said about Mr. Weston that day , by me or in my hearing . 
'No , I want you , said Rosalie and calling her sister to the window , she whispered an explanation in her ear upon which the latter consented to go . 
I remembered that eleven was the hour at which Mr. Weston proposed to come to the porter's lodge and remembering that , I beheld the whole contrivance . 
It is foolish to wish for beauty . 
Sensible people never either desire it for themselves or care about it in others . 
If the mind be but well cultivated , and the heart well disposed , no one ever cares for the exterior . 
So said the teachers of our childhood and so say we to the children of the present day . 
Such were some of my reflections about this period . 
Now , therefore , let us return to Miss Murray . 
She accompanied her mamma to the ball on Tuesday of course splendidly attired , and delighted with her prospects and her charms . 
About eleven next morning , as soon as she had left her room , she came to tell me her news . 
Sir Thomas had indeed proposed to her at the ball an event which reflected great credit on her mamma's sagacity , if not upon her skill in contrivance . 
I rather incline to the belief that she had first laid her plans , and then predicted their success . 
The offer had been accepted , of course , and the bridegroom elect was coming that day to settle matters with Mr. Murray . 
It seemed a horrible thing to hurry on the inauspicious match , and not to give the poor creature time to think and reason on the irrevocable step she was about to take . 
And when I saw this , and when I beheld her plunge more recklessly than ever into the depths of heartless coquetry , I had no more pity for her . 
'Come what will , I thought , 'she deserves it . 
Sir Thomas cannot be too bad for her and the sooner she is incapacitated from deceiving and injuring others the better . 
The wedding was fixed for the first of June . 
Rosalie would sometimes show her lover's epistles to me , to convince me what a kind , devoted husband he would make . 
'Why don't you tell him , at once , that you are engaged ? I asked . 
'Oh , I don't want him to know that , replied she . 
But , amid all this , she never for a moment lost sight of Mr. Weston . 
Such conduct was completely beyond my comprehension . 
She now became extremely beneficent to the poor cottagers . 
Her acquaintance among them was more widely extended , her visits to their humble dwellings were more frequent and excursive than they had ever been before . 
'And besides , said they , 'you can't walk as fast as we do you know you're always lagging behind . 
I knew these were false excuses , but I made no objections , and never contradicted such assertions , well knowing the motives which dictated them . 
And in the afternoons , during those six memorable weeks , I never went to church at all . 
Upon their return home , on one of these occasions , they entertained me with an animated account of a conversation they had had with Mr. Weston as they came along . 
One morning , having sought and waylaid Mr. Weston , they returned in high glee to give me an account of their interview . 
'And he asked after you again , said Matilda , in spite of her sister's silent but imperative intimation that she should hold her tongue . 
'He wondered why you were never with us , and thought you must have delicate health , as you came out so seldom . 
'What an idea he must have of me ! I thought . 
'And , I asked , 'does old Nancy ever inquire about me ? 'Yes and we tell her you are so fond of reading and drawing that you can do nothing else . 
'That is not the case though if you had told her I was so busy I could not come to see her , it would have been nearer the truth . 
'I don't think it would , replied Miss Murray , suddenly kindling up 'I'm sure you have plenty of time to yourself now , when you have so little teaching to do . 
It was no use beginning to dispute with such indulged , unreasoning creatures so I held my peace . 
So passed the weary time . 
I could not even comfort myself with saying , 'She will soon be married and then there may be hope . 
, and he was about to remove to another place . 
'Oh , if he could but know the difference ! I would earnestly exclaim . 
I never disclosed it then , and would not have done so had my own sister or my mother been with me in the house . 
I was a close and resolute dissembler in this one case at least . 
My prayers , my tears , my wishes , fears , and lamentations , were witnessed by myself and heaven alone . 
I still preserve those relics of past sufferings and experience , like pillars of witness set up in travelling through the vale of life , to mark particular occurrences . 
The footsteps are obliterated now the face of the country may be changed but the pillar is still there , to remind me how all things were when it was reared . 
They will not let me see that face I so delight to see And they have taken all thy smiles , And all thy love from me . 
Well , let them seize on all they can One treasure still is mine , A heart that loves to think on thee , And feels the worth of thine . 
Yes , at least , they could not deprive me of that I could think of him day and night and I could feel that he was worthy to be thought of . 
Nobody knew him as I did nobody could appreciate him as I did nobody could love him as I could , if I might but there was the evil . 
And such reasoning prevented me from making any sufficient effort to shake off my fetters . 
But , if those thoughts brought delight , it was a painful , troubled pleasure , too near akin to anguish and one that did me more injury than I was aware of . 
It was an indulgence that a person of more wisdom or more experience would doubtless have denied herself . 
In this time of trouble I had two other causes of affliction . 
The other was serious enough my letters from home gave intimation that my father's health was worse . 
No boding fears were expressed , but I was grown timid and despondent , and could not help fearing that some dreadful calamity awaited us there . 
I seemed to see the black clouds gathering round my native hills , and to hear the angry muttering of a storm that was about to burst , and desolate our hearth . 
CHAPTER XVIII MIRTH AND MOURNING THE st of June arrived at last and Rosalie Murray was transmuted into Lady Ashby . 
Most splendidly beautiful she looked in her bridal costume . 
'Now , Miss Grey , I'm Lady Ashby ! she exclaimed . 
'It's done , my fate is sealed there's no drawing back now . 
But don't forget me I shan't forget you , though I've been a naughty girl . 
'Well , good by , the carriage is waiting , and they're calling me . 
During the remainder of that day of festal sadness , I was left to my own devices . 
But of this she seemed to know nothing , and I hoped , as she did , that it was all a false report . 
She was very glad to see me but , happily , her eyes were now so nearly well that she was almost independent of my services . 
I sat a long time talking to her about that and other things but no one came . 
I should see him , and by look , speech , and manner , I might judge whether the circumstance of her marriage had very much afflicted him . 
I walked home with Miss Matilda but HE DID NOT JOIN US . 
Frequently , I was told to amuse Miss Matilda with other things , and to remind her of her mother's precepts and prohibitions . 
'DEAR Miss Grey ! it is the STRANGEST thing . 
'Do you , ma'am ? 'Yes , of course the young lady's proficiency and elegance is of more consequence to the governess than her own , as well as to the world . 
If she wishes to prosper in her vocation she must devote all her energies to her business all her ideas and all her ambition will tend to the accomplishment of that one object . 
When we wish to decide upon the merits of a governess , we naturally look at the young ladies she professes to have educated , and judge accordingly . 
You will excuse my dropping these little hints you know it is all for your own good . 
Many ladies would speak to you much more strongly and many would not trouble themselves to speak at all , but quietly look out for a substitute . 
I was about to give the lady some idea of the fallacy of her expectations but she sailed away as soon as she had concluded her speech . 
Having said what she wished , it was no part of her plan to await my answer it was my business to hear , and not to speak . 
In one of these walks , it was our chance to meet Mr. Weston . 
After a brief salutation to both , he asked Matilda if she had lately heard from her sister . 
'She was at Paris when she wrote , and very well , and very happy . 
She spoke the last word emphatically , and with a glance impertinently sly . 
He did not seem to notice it , but replied , with equal emphasis , and very seriously 'I hope she will continue to be so . 
'Do you think it likely ? I ventured to inquire for Matilda had started off in pursuit of her dog , that was chasing a leveret . 
'I cannot tell , replied he . 
It was her mother's wish , I suppose ? 'Yes and her own too , I think , for she always laughed at my attempts to dissuade her from the step . 
'You did attempt it ? Then , at least , you will have the satisfaction of knowing that it is no fault of yours , if any harm should come of it . 
As for Mrs. Murray , I don't know how she can justify her conduct if I had sufficient acquaintance with her , I'd ask her . 
'It seems unnatural but some people think rank and wealth the chief good and , if they can secure that for their children , they think they have done their duty . 
'Was it your intention to kill that hare , or to save it , Miss Murray ? asked Mr. Weston , apparently puzzled at her gleeful countenance . 
'I pretended to want to save it , she answered , honestly enough , 'as it was so glaringly out of season but I was better pleased to see it lolled . 
I replied that I saw no fun in the matter but admitted that I had not observed the transaction very narrowly . 
'Didn't you see how it doubled just like an old hare ? and didn't you hear it scream ? 'I'm happy to say I did not . 
'It cried out just like a child . 
'Poor little thing ! What will you do with it ? 'Come along I shall leave it in the first house we come to . 
I don't want to take it home , for fear papa should scold me for letting the dog kill it . 
but still , it was something to find my unimportant saying so well remembered it was something that he had noticed so accurately the time I had ceased to be visible . 
'I was told , said he , 'that you were a perfect bookworm , Miss Grey so completely absorbed in your studies that you were lost to every other pleasure . 
'Yes , and it's quite true ! cried Matilda . 
'No , Mr. Weston don't believe it it's a scandalous libel . 
These young ladies are too fond of making random assertions at the expense of their friends and you ought to be careful how you listen to them . 
'I hope THIS assertion is groundless , at any rate . 
'Why ? Do you particularly object to ladies studying ? 'No but I object to anyone so devoting himself or herself to study , as to lose sight of everything else . 
Except under peculiar circumstances , I consider very close and constant study as a waste of time , and an injury to the mind as well as the body . 
'Well , I have neither the time nor the inclination for such transgressions . 
Shallow brained cheerfulness , foolish dreams , unfounded hopes , you would say and I will not venture to deny it suspicions to that effect arose too frequently in my own mind . 
Two days after , a letter from Mary told me his life was despaired of , and his end seemed fast approaching . 
Then , immediately , I sought permission to anticipate the vacation , and go without delay . 
'And instead of REPINING , Miss Grey , be thankful for the PRIVILEGES you enjoy . 
I thanked her for her 'consideration , and flew to my room to make some hurried preparations for my departure . 
My bonnet and shawl being on , and a few things hastily crammed into my largest trunk , I descended . 
But I might have done the work more leisurely , for no one else was in a hurry and I had still a considerable time to wait for the phaeton . 
It was half past ten before I reached home . 
They were not in bed . 
'Agnes ! said my mother , struggling to repress some strong emotion . 
'Oh , Agnes ! cried Mary , and burst into tears . 
'How is he ? I asked , gasping for the answer . 
'Dead ! It was the reply I had anticipated but the shock seemed none the less tremendous . 
My mother's strong mind had not given way beneath even this affliction her spirit , though crushed , was not broken . 
But no arguments or entreaties could prevail my mother was determined not to go . 
'No , Mary , said she , 'if Richardson and you have anything to spare , you must lay it aside for your family and Agnes and I must gather honey for ourselves . 
Thanks to my having had daughters to educate , I have not forgotten my accomplishments . 
Your father's relations and old friends will be able to send us some pupils , or to assist us with their recommendations , no doubt I shall not apply to my own . 
It shall be taken from the bank directly . 
'When it is wanted we must get the house , and settle on preliminaries first . 
'From my father ! murmured she , as she hastily tore off the cover . 
It was many years since she had heard from any of her own relations before . 
When she had done , she somewhat irreverently cast it on the table , saying with a scornful smile , 'Your grandpapa has been so kind as to write to me . 
Get my desk , Agnes , and send these things away I will answer the letter directly . 
But first , as I may be depriving you both of a legacy , it is just that I should tell you what I mean to say . 
CHAPTER XX THE FAREWELL A HOUSE in A , the fashionable watering place , was hired for our seminary and a promise of two or three pupils was obtained to commence with . 
At any rate , I was glad my mother had so much employment for every faculty of her action loving frame . 
And even of that precious time , day after day slipped by and I did not see him except at church , I never saw him for a fortnight after my return . 
You might have known such happiness was not for you . 
But I saw him at last . 
I thanked him with due civility , and told him she was as well as could be expected . 
'What will she do ? was the next question . 
'Then you will leave this place shortly ? said he . 
'Yes , in a month . 
He paused a minute , as if in thought . 
'Why , said I 'why should you suppose that I dislike the place ? 'You told me so yourself , was the decisive reply . 
'Well , Miss Matilda is quite as good better in one respect . 
'What is that ? 'She's honest . 
'And the other is not ? 'I should not call her DIShonest but it must be confessed she's a little artful . 
Yes , continued he , musingly , 'that accounts for some little things that puzzled me a trifle before . 
After that , he turned the conversation to more general subjects . 
He had not breathed a word of love , or dropped one hint of tenderness or affection , and yet I had been supremely happy . 
And now , the last Sunday was come , and the last service . 
I was often on the point of melting into tears during the sermon the last I was to hear from him the best I should hear from anyone , I was well assured . 
It was over the congregation were departing and I must follow . 
I had then seen him , and heard his voice , too , probably for the last time . 
In the churchyard , Matilda was pounced upon by the two Misses Green . 
They had many inquiries to make about her sister , and I know not what besides . 
Only this once , and then adieu to fruitless dreaming thenceforth , only sober , solid , sad reality should occupy my mind . 
But while I thus resolved , a low voice close beside me said 'I suppose you are going this week , Miss Grey ? 'Yes , I replied . 
I was very much startled and had I been at all hysterically inclined , I certainly should have committed myself in some way then . 
Thank God , I was not . 
'Well , said Mr. Weston , 'I want to bid you good bye it is not likely I shall see you again before you go . 
'Good bye , Mr. Weston , I said . 
Oh , how I struggled to say it calmly ! I gave him my hand . 
He retained it a few seconds in his . 
I COULD say no less . 
He kindly pressed my hand , and went . 
Now , I was happy again though more inclined to burst into tears than ever . 
, as one awakened from a fit of abstraction , I suddenly looked up and asked what she had been saying . 
CHAPTER XXI THE SCHOOL I LEFT Horton Lodge , and went to join my mother in our new abode at A . 
I found her well in health , resigned in spirit , and even cheerful , though subdued and sober , in her general demeanour . 
We had only three boarders and half a dozen day pupils to commence with but by due care and diligence we hoped ere long to increase the number of both . 
I set myself with befitting energy to discharge the duties of this new mode of life . 
'I shall see him again . 
He will come or he will write . 
No promise , in fact , was too bright or too extravagant for Hope to whisper in my ear . 
'But , then , persisted Hope , 'the tone and manner in which he spoke . 
'Egregious folly too absurd to require contradiction mere inventions of the imagination , which you ought to be ashamed of . 
'Agnes , this sea air and change of scene do you no good , I think I never saw you look so wretched . 
It must be that you sit too much , and allow the cares of the schoolroom to worry you . 
So said my mother , as we sat at work one morning during the Easter holidays . 
But it would not do to die and leave my mother . 
If happiness in this world is not for me , I will endeavour to promote the welfare of those around me , and my reward shall be hereafter . 
Early in June , I received a letter from Lady Ashby , late Miss Murray . 
She had written to me twice or thrice before , from the different stages of her bridal tour , always in good spirits , and professing to be very happy . 
I wondered every time that she had not forgotten me , in the midst of so much gaiety and variety of scene . 
At length , however , there was a pause and it seemed she had forgotten me , for upwards of seven months passed away and no letter . 
It was dated from Ashby Park , where she was come to settle down at last , having previously divided her time between the continent and the metropolis . 
She made many apologies for having neglected me so long , assured me she had not forgotten me , and had often intended to write , c . 
, but had always been prevented by something . 
'We have been several days here already , wrote she . 
'We have not a single friend with us , and are likely to be very dull . 
I want you to visit me as a friend , and stay a long time . 
There is nobody with me , as I told you before , but Sir Thomas and old Lady Ashby but you needn't mind them they'll trouble us but little with their company . 
And you shall have a room to yourself , whenever you like to retire to it , and plenty of books to read when my company is not sufficiently amusing . 
And you shall see my poodle , too a splendid little charmer imported from Paris and two fine Italian paintings of great value I forget the artist . 
I showed this strange epistle to my mother , and consulted her on what I ought to do . 
CHAPTER XXII THE VISIT ASHBY PARK was certainly a very delightful residence . 
It was a quiet , tidy little sitting room and I was not sorry to be provided with such a harbour of refuge . 
I thought you mightn't like it so well especially as we may have other ladies and gentlemen to dine with us occasionally . 
'Certainly , said I , 'I would much rather have it as you say , and , if you have no objection , I should prefer having all my meals in this room . 
'Why so ? 'Because , I imagine , it would be more agreeable to Lady Ashby and Sir Thomas . 
'At any rate it would be more agreeable to me . 
She made some faint objections , but soon conceded and I could see that the proposal was a considerable relief to her . 
'Now , come into the drawing room , said she . 
'There's the dressing bell but I won't go yet it's no use dressing when there's no one to see you and I want to have a little discourse . 
And I honestly looked round , and told her it was a noble room , and very tastefully furnished . 
She said little , but I saw she was pleased . 
But I must take advantage of this pause I had inquiries to make , and , like the substance of a lady's postscript , the most important must come last . 
So I began with asking after Mr. and Mrs. Murray , and Miss Matilda and the young gentlemen . 
were , by all accounts , 'fine , bold , unruly , mischievous boys . 
He's doomed to be an old bachelor and his sisters are doing their best to get married . 
You needn't look so shocked , Miss Grey I was very discreet , I assure you , but , you know , one can't help being admired . 
Poor fellow ! He was not my only worshipper though he was certainly the most conspicuous , and , I think , the most devoted among them all . 
And she bit her lip , and frowned vindictively upon the fair domain she had once so coveted to call her own . 
It's a strange thing one can't be mistress in one's own house ! Just ring the bell , and I'll send for my maid , and tell them to get you some tea . 
Twilight came stealing on the rooks became more quiet I became more weary , and wished I were going home to morrow . 
'And so you think I would lay myself out for his amusement ! No that's not MY idea of a wife . 
And as for persuasion , I assure you I shan't trouble myself with that I've enough to do to bear with him as he is , without attempting to work a reform . 
But I'm sorry I left you so long alone , Miss Grey . 
How have you passed the time ? 'Chiefly in watching the rooks . 
'Well , don't let me keep you out of the drawing room any longer to night , for at present I am tired and wish to go to bed . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE PARK I CAME down a little before eight , next morning , as I knew by the striking of a distant clock . 
There was no appearance of breakfast . 
At length Lady Ashby came to bid me good morning . 
She informed me she had only just breakfasted , and now wanted me to take an early walk with her in the park . 
She asked how long I had been up , and on receiving my answer , expressed the deepest regret , and again promised to show me the library . 
I suggested she had better do so at once , and then there would be no further trouble either with remembering or forgetting . 
Of course I readily assented and we took our walk accordingly . 
As we were strolling in the park , talking of what my companion had seen and heard during her travelling experience , a gentleman on horseback rode up and passed us . 
As he turned , in passing , and stared me full in the face , I had a good opportunity of seeing what he was like . 
'I detest that man ! whispered Lady Ashby , with bitter emphasis , as he slowly trotted by . 
'Who is it ? I asked , unwilling to suppose that she should so speak of her husband . 
'Sir Thomas Ashby , she replied , with dreary composure . 
'And do you DETEST him , Miss Murray ? said I , for I was too much shocked to remember her name at the moment . 
'Yes , I do , Miss Grey , and despise him too and if you knew him you would not blame me . 
'But you knew what he was before you married him . 
'No I only thought so I did not half know him really . 
I know you warned me against it , and I wish I had listened to you but it's too late to regret that now . 
And besides , mamma ought to have known better than either of us , and she never said anything against it quite the contrary . 
Of course , I pitied her exceedingly as well for her false idea of happiness and disregard of duty , as for the wretched partner with whom her fate was linked . 
'But I can't devote myself entirely to a child , said she 'it may die which is not at all improbable . 
'But , with care , many a delicate infant has become a strong man or woman . 
'But it may grow so intolerably like its father that I shall hate it . 
'That is not likely it is a little girl , and strongly resembles its mother . 
'No matter I should like it better if it were a boy only that its father will leave it no inheritance that he can possibly squander away . 
The end of Religion is not to teach us how to die , but how to live and the earlier you become wise and good , the more of happiness you secure . 
And now , Lady Ashby , I have one more piece of advice to offer you , which is , that you will not make an enemy of your mother in law . 
Don't get into the way of holding her at arms' length , and regarding her with jealous distrust . 
But I fear my advice had little effect upon the unfortunate young lady and , finding I could render myself so little serviceable , my residence at Ashby Park became doubly painful . 
Nevertheless , it was with a heavy heart that I bade adieu to poor Lady Ashby , and left her in her princely home . 
In one of the largest of these habitations dwelt my mother and I , with such young ladies as our friends and the public chose to commit to our charge . 
Consequently , we were a considerable distance from the sea , and divided from it by a labyrinth of streets and houses . 
It was delightful to me at all times and seasons , but especially in the wild commotion of a rough sea breeze , and in the brilliant freshness of a summer morning . 
I was not long in forming the resolution , nor slow to act upon it . 
Of course I would not disturb my mother , so I stole noiselessly downstairs , and quietly unfastened the door . 
I was dressed and out , when the church clock struck a quarter to six . 
Nothing else was stirring no living creature was visible besides myself . 
, to a little mossy promontory with the sea splashing round it , I looked back again to see who next was stirring . 
Presently , I heard a snuffling sound behind me and then a dog came frisking and wriggling to my feet . 
It was my own Snap the little dark , wire haired terrier ! When I spoke his name , he leapt up in my face and yelled for joy . 
Almost as much delighted as himself , I caught the little creature in my arms , and kissed him repeatedly . 
'Not often so early as this , I replied , with amazing composure , considering all the circumstances of the case . 
'How far do you purpose to extend your walk ? 'I was thinking of returning it must be almost time , I think . 
He consulted his watch a gold one now and told me it was only five minutes past seven . 
'In what part of the town do you live ? asked he . 
Never could discover ? Had he endeavoured to do so then ? I told him the place of our abode . 
He asked how we prospered in our affairs . 
'You must be an accomplished instructor , he observed . 
'No , it is my mother , I replied 'she manages things so well , and is so active , and clever , and kind . 
'I should like to know your mother . 
Will you introduce me to her some time , if I call ? 'Yes , willingly . 
'And will you allow me the privilege of an old friend , of looking in upon you now and then ? 'Yes , if I suppose so . 
by Mr. Weston commenting upon the brightness of the morning and the beauty of the bay , and then upon the advantages A possessed over many other fashionable places of resort . 
'You don't ask what brings me to A said he . 
'You can't suppose I'm rich enough to come for my own pleasure . 
'I heard you had left Horton . 
'You didn't hear , then , that I had got the living of F ? F was a village about two miles distant from A . 
'No , said I 'we live so completely out of the world , even here , that news seldom reaches me through any quarter except through the medium of the GAZETTE . 
'If you require perfection , you never will . 
'I do not I have no right to require it , as being so far from perfect myself . 
Here my companion offered me his arm , which I accepted , though not with the intention of using it as a support . 
Discoursing on different subjects , we entered the town , and passed through several streets . 
'I'll leave you at the end of the next street , said he . 
'And when will you come to see mamma ? 'To morrow God willing . 
The end of the next street was nearly the conclusion of my journey . 
'I won't offer to restore him to you , Miss Grey , said Mr. Weston , smiling , 'because I like him . 
'Oh , I don't want him , replied I , 'now that he has a good master I'm quite satisfied . 
I certainly did feel feverish and tired too . 
'You always do things by extremes now , if you had taken a SHORT walk every morning , and would continue to do so , it would do you good . 
'Well , mamma , I will . 
'But this is worse than lying in bed or bending over your books you have quite put yourself into a fever . 
'I won't do it again , said I. I was racking my brains with thinking how to tell her about Mr. Weston , for she must know he was coming to morrow . 
'An old friend ! Who could it be ? 'Two old friends , indeed . 
Weston ! I never heard of him before . 
'Yes , you have I've mentioned him several times , I believe but you don't remember . 
'I've heard you speak of Mr. Hatfield . 
Hatfield was the rector , and Mr. Weston the curate I used to mention him sometimes in contradistinction to Mr. Hatfield , as being a more efficient clergyman . 
Was I right ? 'Of course . 
What kind of a man is he ? 'A very RESPECTABLE man , I think but you will see him to morrow . 
He is the new vicar of F , and as he has only been there a few weeks , I suppose he has made no friends yet , and wants a little society . 
They got on extremely well together greatly to my satisfaction , for I had felt very anxious about what my mother would think of him . 
After that , he often called upon us several times in the course of a week . 
He generally addressed most of his conversation to my mother and no wonder , for she could converse . 
I was not always silent , however nor was I at all neglected . 
Ceremony was quickly dropped between us Mr. Weston came as an expected guest , welcome at all times , and never deranging the economy of our household affairs . 
'A beautiful evening , Mrs. Grey ! said he , as he entered . 
'The rain has laid the dust , and cooled and cleared the air , and the prospect will be magnificent . 
Will you come ? 'Can I go , mamma ? 'Yes to be sure . 
The thunder shower had certainly had a most beneficial effect upon the weather , and the evening was most delightful . 
Mr. Weston would have me to take his arm he said little during our passage through the crowded streets , but walked very fast , and appeared grave and abstracted . 
When we had got about half way up the hill , we fell into silence again which , as usual , he was the first to break . 
'I hope I have not been too precipitate , he said , in a serious tone . 
I said something about not liking to leave my mother , and doing nothing without her consent . 
'I settled everything with Mrs. Grey , while you were putting on your bonnet , replied he . 
And so now I have overruled your objections on her account . 
Have you any other ? 'No none . 
'You love me then ? said be , fervently pressing my hand . 
My Diary , from which I have compiled these pages , goes but little further . 
, I defy anybody to blame him as a pastor , a husband , or a father . 
And now I think I have said sufficient . 
