THE OLD SEA DOG AT THE ADMIRAL BENBOW . 
BLACK DOG APPEARS AND DISAPPEARS . 
THE LAST OF THE BLIND MAN . 
PART TWO The Sea Cook . 
AT THE SIGN OF THE SPY GLASS . 
WHAT I HEARD IN THE APPLE BARREL . 
PART THREE My Shore Adventure . 
HOW MY SHORE ADVENTURE BEGAN . 
THE MAN OF THE ISLAND . 
NARRATIVE CONTINUED BY THE DOCTOR HOW THE SHIP WAS ABANDONED . 
NARRATIVE CONTINUED BY THE DOCTOR THE JOLLY BOAT'S LAST TRIP . 
NARRATIVE CONTINUED BY THE DOCTOR END OF THE FIRST DAY'S FIGHTING . 
NARRATIVE RESUMED BY JIM HAWKINS THE GARRISON IN THE STOCKADE . 
PART FIVE My Sea Adventure . 
HOW MY SEA ADVENTURE BEGAN . 
THE CRUISE OF THE CORACLE . 
I STRIKE THE JOLLY ROGER . 
THE TREASURE HUNT FLINT'S POINTER . 
THE TREASURE HUNT THE VOICE AMONG THE TREES . 
THE FALL OF A CHIEFTAIN . 
TREASURE ISLAND PART ONE The Old Buccaneer The Old Sea dog at the Admiral Benbow SQUIRE TRELAWNEY , Dr . 
Then he rapped on the door with a bit of stick like a handspike that he carried , and when my father appeared , called roughly for a glass of rum . 
This is a handy cove , says he at length and a pleasant sittyated grog shop . 
Much company , mate ? My father told him no , very little company , the more was the pity . 
Well , then , said he , this is the berth for me . 
Here you , matey , he cried to the man who trundled the barrow bring up alongside and help up my chest . 
I'll stay here a bit , he continued . 
I'm a plain man rum and bacon and eggs is what I want , and that head up there for to watch ships off . 
What you mought call me ? You mought call me captain . 
Oh , I see what you're at there and he threw down three or four gold pieces on the threshold . 
You can tell me when I've worked through that , says he , looking as fierce as a commander . 
And that was all we could learn of our guest . 
He was a very silent man by custom . 
Every day when he came back from his stroll he would ask if any seafaring men had gone by along the road . 
he would look in at him through the curtained door before he entered the parlour and he was always sure to be as silent as a mouse when any such was present . 
For me , at least , there was no secret about the matter , for I was , in a way , a sharer in his alarms . 
How that personage haunted my dreams , I need scarcely tell you . 
To see him leap and run and pursue me over hedge and ditch was the worst of nightmares . 
And altogether I paid pretty dear for my monthly fourpenny piece , in the shape of these abominable fancies . 
But though I was so terrified by the idea of the seafaring man with one leg , I was far less afraid of the captain himself than anybody else who knew him . 
Nor would he allow anyone to leave the inn till he had drunk himself sleepy and reeled off to bed . 
His stories were what frightened people worst of all . 
Dreadful stories they were about hanging , and walking the plank , and storms at sea , and the Dry Tortugas , and wild deeds and places on the Spanish Main . 
If ever he mentioned it , the captain blew through his nose so loudly that you might say he roared , and stared my poor father out of the room . 
I have seen him wringing his hands after such a rebuff , and I am sure the annoyance and the terror he lived in must have greatly hastened his early and unhappy death . 
All the time he lived with us the captain made no change whatever in his dress but to buy some stockings from a hawker . 
One of the cocks of his hat having fallen down , he let it hang from that day forth , though it was a great annoyance when it blew . 
I remember the appearance of his coat , which he patched himself upstairs in his room , and which , before the end , was nothing but patches . 
He never wrote or received a letter , and he never spoke with any but the neighbours , and with these , for the most part , only when drunk on rum . 
The great sea chest none of us had ever seen open . 
He was only once crossed , and that was towards the end , when my poor father was far gone in a decline that took him off . 
But by this time we had all long ceased to pay any particular notice to the song it was new , that night , to nobody but Dr . 
The voices stopped at once , all but Dr . 
Livesey's he went on as before speaking clear and kind and drawing briskly at his pipe between every word or two . 
He sprang to his feet , drew and opened a sailor's clasp knife , and balancing it open on the palm of his hand , threatened to pin the doctor to the wall . 
The doctor never so much as moved . 
Then followed a battle of looks between them , but the captain soon knuckled under , put up his weapon , and resumed his seat , grumbling like a beaten dog . 
And now , sir , continued the doctor , since I now know there's such a fellow in my district , you may count I'll have an eye upon you day and night . 
Livesey's horse came to the door and he rode away , but the captain held his peace that evening , and for many evenings to come . 
It was a bitter cold winter , with long , hard frosts and heavy gales and it was plain from the first that my poor father was little likely to see the spring . 
He sank daily , and my mother and I had all the inn upon our hands , and were kept busy enough without paying much regard to our unpleasant guest . 
He was a pale , tallowy creature , wanting two fingers of the left hand , and though he wore a cutlass , he did not look much like a fighter . 
I had always my eye open for seafaring men , with one leg or two , and I remember this one puzzled me . 
He was not sailorly , and yet he had a smack of the sea about him too . 
I paused where I was , with my napkin in my hand . 
Come here , sonny , says he . 
I took a step nearer . 
Is this here table for my mate Bill ? he asked with a kind of leer . 
I told him I did not know his mate Bill , and this was for a person who stayed in our house whom we called the captain . 
Well , said he , my mate Bill would be called the captain , as like as not . 
He has a cut on one cheek and a mighty pleasant way with him , particularly in drink , has my mate Bill . 
We'll put it , for argument like , that your captain has a cut on one cheek and we'll put it , if you like , that that cheek's the right one . 
Ah , well ! I told you . 
Now , is my mate Bill in this here house ? I told him he was out walking . 
But it was no affair of mine , I thought and besides , it was difficult to know what to do . 
The stranger kept hanging about just inside the inn door , peering round the corner like a cat waiting for a mouse . 
I have a son of my own , said he , as like you as two blocks , and he's all the pride of my 'art . 
But the great thing for boys is discipline , sonny discipline . 
Now , if you had sailed along of Bill , you wouldn't have stood there to be spoke to twice not you . 
That was never Bill's way , nor the way of sich as sailed with him . 
And here , sure enough , is my mate Bill , with a spy glass under his arm , bless his old 'art , to be sure . 
You and me'll just go back into the parlour , sonny , and get behind the door , and we'll give Bill a little surprise bless his 'art , I say again . 
So saying , the stranger backed along with me into the parlour and put me behind him in the corner so that we were both hidden by the open door . 
I was very uneasy and alarmed , as you may fancy , and it rather added to my fears to observe that the stranger was certainly frightened himself . 
At last in strode the captain , slammed the door behind him , without looking to the right or left , and marched straight across the room to where his breakfast awaited him . 
Bill , said the stranger in a voice that I thought he had tried to make bold and big . 
Come , Bill , you know me you know an old shipmate , Bill , surely , said the stranger . 
The captain made a sort of gasp . 
Black Dog ! said he . 
And who else ? returned the other , getting more at his ease . 
Black Dog as ever was , come for to see his old shipmate Billy , at the Admiral Benbow inn . 
Ah , Bill , Bill , we have seen a sight of times , us two , since I lost them two talons , holding up his mutilated hand . 
He bade me go and leave the door wide open . 
None of your keyholes for me , sonny , he said and I left them together and retired into the bar . 
No , no , no , no and an end of it ! he cried once . 
You may see the notch on the lower side of the frame to this day . 
That blow was the last of the battle . 
The captain , for his part , stood staring at the signboard like a bewildered man . 
Then he passed his hand over his eyes several times and at last turned back into the house . 
Jim , says he , rum and as he spoke , he reeled a little , and caught himself with one hand against the wall . 
Are you hurt ? cried I. Rum , he repeated . 
I must get away from here . 
At the same instant my mother , alarmed by the cries and fighting , came running downstairs to help me . 
Between us we raised his head . 
He was breathing very loud and hard , but his eyes were closed and his face a horrible colour . 
I got the rum , to be sure , and tried to put it down his throat , but his teeth were tightly shut and his jaws as strong as iron . 
It was a happy relief for us when the door opened and Doctor Livesey came in , on his visit to my father . 
Oh , doctor , we cried , what shall we do ? Where is he wounded ? Wounded ? A fiddle stick's end ! said the doctor . 
No more wounded than you or I. The man has had a stroke , as I warned him . 
Now , Mrs. Hawkins , just you run upstairs to your husband and tell him , if possible , nothing about it . 
For my part , I must do my best to save this fellow's trebly worthless life Jim , you get me a basin . 
When I got back with the basin , the doctor had already ripped up the captain's sleeve and exposed his great sinewy arm . 
It was tattooed in several places . 
Prophetic , said the doctor , touching this picture with his finger . 
And now , Master Billy Bones , if that be your name , we'll have a look at the colour of your blood . 
A great deal of blood was taken before the captain opened his eyes and looked mistily about him . 
First he recognized the doctor with an unmistakable frown then his glance fell upon me , and he looked relieved . 
Now , Mr. Bones That's not my name , he interrupted . 
Much I care , returned the doctor . 
Come , now , make an effort . 
I'll help you to your bed for once . 
Now , mind you , said the doctor , I clear my conscience the name of rum for you is death . 
And with that he went off to see my father , taking me with him by the arm . 
This is nothing , he said as soon as he had closed the door . 
The Black Spot ABOUT noon I stopped at the captain's door with some cooling drinks and medicines . 
He was lying very much as we had left him , only a little higher , and he seemed both weak and excited . 
Jim , he said , you're the only one here that's worth anything , and you know I've been always good to you . 
Never a month but I've given you a silver fourpenny for yourself . 
But he broke in cursing the doctor , in a feeble voice but heartily . 
Look , Jim , how my fingers fidges , he continued in the pleading tone . 
I can't keep 'em still , not I. I haven't had a drop this blessed day . 
That doctor's a fool , I tell you . 
If I don't have a drain o' rum , Jim , I'll have the horrors I seen some on 'em already . 
Your doctor hisself said one glass wouldn't hurt me . 
I'll give you a golden guinea for a noggin , Jim . 
I want none of your money , said I , but what you owe my father . 
I'll get you one glass , and no more . 
When I brought it to him , he seized it greedily and drank it out . 
Aye , aye , said he , that's some better , sure enough . 
And now , matey , did that doctor say how long I was to lie here in this old berth ? A week at least , said I. Thunder ! he cried . 
A week ! I can't do that they'd have the black spot on me by then . 
The lubbers is going about to get the wind of me this blessed moment lubbers as couldn't keep what they got , and want to nail what is another's . 
Is that seamanly behaviour , now , I want to know ? But I'm a saving soul . 
I never wasted good money of mine , nor lost it neither and I'll trick 'em again . 
I'm not afraid on 'em . 
I'll shake out another reef , matey , and daddle 'em again . 
His words , spirited as they were in meaning , contrasted sadly with the weakness of the voice in which they were uttered . 
He paused when he had got into a sitting position on the edge . 
That doctor's done me , he murmured . 
Before I could do much to help him he had fallen back again to his former place , where he lay for a while silent . 
Jim , he said at length , you saw that seafaring man today ? Black Dog ? I asked . 
Ah ! Black Dog , says he . 
HE'S a bad un but there's worse that put him on . 
I was first mate , I was , old Flint's first mate , and I'm the on'y one as knows the place . 
He gave it me at Savannah , when he lay a dying , like as if I was to now , you see . 
But you won't peach unless they get the black spot on me , or unless you see that Black Dog again or a seafaring man with one leg , Jim him above all . 
But what is the black spot , captain ? I asked . 
That's a summons , mate . 
I'll tell you if they get that . 
But you keep your weather eye open , Jim , and I'll share with you equals , upon my honour . 
What I should have done had all gone well I do not know . 
Probably I should have told the whole story to the doctor , for I was in mortal fear lest the captain should repent of his confessions and make an end of me . 
But as things fell out , my poor father died quite suddenly that evening , which put all other matters on one side . 
I have said the captain was weak , and indeed he seemed rather to grow weaker than regain his strength . 
He had an alarming way now when he was drunk of drawing his cutlass and laying it bare before him on the table . 
But with all that , he minded people less and seemed shut up in his own thoughts and rather wandering . 
I never saw in my life a more dreadful looking figure . 
I was so much startled that I struggled to withdraw , but the blind man pulled me close up to him with a single action of his arm . 
Now , boy , he said , take me in to the captain . 
Sir , said I , upon my word I dare not . 
Oh , he sneered , that's it ! Take me in straight or I'll break your arm . 
And he gave it , as he spoke , a wrench that made me cry out . 
Sir , said I , it is for yourself I mean . 
The captain is not what he used to be . 
He sits with a drawn cutlass . 
Another gentleman Come , now , march , interrupted he and I never heard a voice so cruel , and cold , and ugly as that blind man's . 
The blind man clung close to me , holding me in one iron fist and leaning almost more of his weight on me than I could carry . 
Lead me straight up to him , and when I'm in view , cry out , 'Here's a friend for you , Bill . 
If you don't , I'll do this , and with that he gave me a twitch that I thought would have made me faint . 
The poor captain raised his eyes , and at one look the rum went out of him and left him staring sober . 
The expression of his face was not so much of terror as of mortal sickness . 
He made a movement to rise , but I do not believe he had enough force left in his body . 
Now , Bill , sit where you are , said the beggar . 
If I can't see , I can hear a finger stirring . 
Hold out your left hand . 
Boy , take his left hand by the wrist and bring it near to my right . 
Ten o'clock ! he cried . 
We'll do them yet , and he sprang to his feet . 
I ran to him at once , calling to my mother . 
But haste was all in vain . 
The captain had been struck dead by thundering apoplexy . 
It was the second death I had known , and the sorrow of the first was still fresh in my heart . 
The captain's order to mount at once and ride for Doctor Livesey would have left my mother alone and unprotected , which was not to be thought of . 
Something must speedily be resolved upon , and it occurred to us at last to go forth together and seek help in the neighbouring hamlet . 
No sooner said than done . 
Bare headed as we were , we ran out at once in the gathering evening and the frosty fog . 
We were not many minutes on the road , though we sometimes stopped to lay hold of each other and hearken . 
But there was no unusual sound nothing but the low wash of the ripple and the croaking of the inmates of the wood . 
For you would have thought men would have been ashamed of themselves no soul would consent to return with us to the Admiral Benbow . 
The more we told of our troubles , the more man , woman , and child they clung to the shelter of their houses . 
The name of Captain Flint , though it was strange to me , was well enough known to some there and carried a great weight of terror . 
For that matter , anyone who was a comrade of the captain's was enough to frighten them to death . 
And the short and the long of the matter was , that while we could get several who were willing enough to ride to Dr . 
Livesey's , which lay in another direction , not one would help us to defend the inn . 
They say cowardice is infectious but then argument is , on the other hand , a great emboldener and so when each had said his say , my mother made them a speech . 
She would not , she declared , lose money that belonged to her fatherless boy If none of the rest of you dare , she said , Jim and I dare . 
Back we will go , the way we came , and small thanks to you big , hulking , chicken hearted men . 
We'll have that chest open , if we die for it . 
And I'll thank you for that bag , Mrs. Crossley , to bring back our lawful money in . 
Of course I said I would go with my mother , and of course they all cried out at our foolhardiness , but even then not a man would go along with us . 
My heart was beating finely when we two set forth in the cold night upon this dangerous venture . 
I slipped the bolt at once , and we stood and panted for a moment in the dark , alone in the house with the dead captain's body . 
Then my mother got a candle in the bar , and holding each other's hands , we advanced into the parlour . 
He lay as we had left him , on his back , with his eyes open and one arm stretched out . 
Draw down the blind , Jim , whispered my mother they might come and watch outside . 
I went down on my knees at once . 
On the floor close to his hand there was a little round of paper , blackened on the one side . 
He had till ten , Mother , said I and just as I said it , our old clock began striking . 
This sudden noise startled us shockingly but the news was good , for it was only six . 
Now , Jim , she said , that key . 
I felt in his pockets , one after another . 
Perhaps it's round his neck , suggested my mother . 
Give me the key , said my mother and though the lock was very stiff , she had turned it and thrown back the lid in a twinkling . 
A strong smell of tobacco and tar rose from the interior , but nothing was to be seen on the top except a suit of very good clothes , carefully brushed and folded . 
They had never been worn , my mother said . 
I have often wondered since why he should have carried about these shells with him in his wandering , guilty , and hunted life . 
In the meantime , we had found nothing of any value but the silver and the trinkets , and neither of these were in our way . 
Underneath there was an old boat cloak , whitened with sea salt on many a harbour bar . 
I'll show these rogues that I'm an honest woman , said my mother . 
I'll have my dues , and not a farthing over . 
And she began to count over the amount of the captain's score from the sailor's bag into the one that I was holding . 
The guineas , too , were about the scarcest , and it was with these only that my mother knew how to make her count . 
It drew nearer and nearer , while we sat holding our breath . 
At last the tapping recommenced , and , to our indescribable joy and gratitude , died slowly away again until it ceased to be heard . 
But my mother , frightened as she was , would not consent to take a fraction more than was due to her and was obstinately unwilling to be content with less . 
That was enough , and more than enough , for both of us . 
I'll take what I have , she said , jumping to her feet . 
And I'll take this to square the count , said I , picking up the oilskin packet . 
Next moment we were both groping downstairs , leaving the candle by the empty chest and the next we had opened the door and were in full retreat . 
We had not started a moment too soon . 
Far less than half way to the hamlet , very little beyond the bottom of the hill , we must come forth into the moonlight . 
My dear , said my mother suddenly , take the money and run on . 
I am going to faint . 
This was certainly the end for both of us , I thought . 
Farther I could not move her , for the bridge was too low to let me do more than crawl below it . 
So there we had to stay my mother almost entirely exposed and both of us within earshot of the inn . 
Three men ran together , hand in hand and I made out , even through the mist , that the middle man of this trio was the blind beggar . 
The next moment his voice showed me that I was right . 
Down with the door ! he cried . 
But the pause was brief , for the blind man again issued his commands . 
His voice sounded louder and higher , as if he were afire with eagerness and rage . 
In , in , in ! he shouted , and cursed them for their delay . 
Four or five of them obeyed at once , two remaining on the road with the formidable beggar . 
There was a pause , then a cry of surprise , and then a voice shouting from the house , Bill's dead . 
But the blind man swore at them again for their delay . 
Search him , some of you shirking lubbers , and the rest of you aloft and get the chest , he cried . 
I could hear their feet rattling up our old stairs , so that the house must have shook with it . 
Pew , he cried , they've been before us . 
Someone's turned the chest out alow and aloft . 
Is it there ? roared Pew . 
The blind man cursed the money . 
Flint's fist , I mean , he cried . 
We don't see it here nohow , returned the man . 
Here , you below there , is it on Bill ? cried the blind man again . 
At that another fellow , probably him who had remained below to search the captain's body , came to the door of the inn . 
Bill's been overhauled a'ready , said he nothin' left . 
It's these people of the inn it's that boy . 
I wish I had put his eyes out ! cried the blind man , Pew . 
There were no time ago they had the door bolted when I tried it . 
Scatter , lads , and find 'em . 
Sure enough , they left their glim here , said the fellow from the window . 
Scatter and find 'em ! Rout the house out ! reiterated Pew , striking with his stick upon the road . 
And just the same whistle that had alarmed my mother and myself over the dead captain's money was once more clearly audible through the night , but this time twice repeated . 
There's Dirk again , said one . 
Twice ! We'll have to budge , mates . 
Budge , you skulk ! cried Pew . 
Dirk was a fool and a coward from the first you wouldn't mind him . 
They must be close by they can't be far you have your hands on it . 
Hang it , Pew , we've got the doubloons ! grumbled one . 
They might have hid the blessed thing , said another . 
Take the Georges , Pew , and don't stand here squalling . 
These , in their turn , cursed back at the blind miscreant , threatened him in horrid terms , and tried in vain to catch the stick and wrest it from his grasp . 
Almost at the same time a pistol shot , flash and report , came from the hedge side . 
At this Pew saw his error , turned with a scream , and ran straight for the ditch , into which he rolled . 
But he was on his feet again in a second and made another dash , now utterly bewildered , right under the nearest of the coming horses . 
The rider tried to save him , but in vain . 
Down went Pew with a cry that rang high into the night and the four hoofs trampled and spurned him and passed by . 
He fell on his side , then gently collapsed upon his face and moved no more . 
I leaped to my feet and hailed the riders . 
They were pulling up , at any rate , horrified at the accident and I soon saw what they were . 
One , tailing out behind the rest , was a lad that had gone from the hamlet to Dr . 
Livesey's the rest were revenue officers , whom he had met by the way , and with whom he had had the intelligence to return at once . 
Pew was dead , stone dead . 
A voice replied , telling him to keep out of the moonlight or he would get some lead in him , and at the same time a bullet whistled close by his arm . 
Soon after , the lugger doubled the point and disappeared . 
Mr. Dance stood there , as he said , like a fish out of water , and all he could do was to dispatch a man to B to warn the cutter . 
And that , said he , is just about as good as nothing . 
They've got off clean , and there's an end . 
Only , he added , I'm glad I trod on Master Pew's corns , for by this time he had heard my story . 
Mr. Dance could make nothing of the scene . 
To be sure , boy quite right , said he . 
I'll take it , if you like . 
Perfectly right , he interrupted very cheerily , perfectly right a gentleman and a magistrate . 
And , now I come to think of it , I might as well ride round there myself and report to him or squire . 
Now , I'll tell you , Hawkins , if you like , I'll take you along . 
I thanked him heartily for the offer , and we walked back to the hamlet where the horses were . 
By the time I had told mother of my purpose they were all in the saddle . 
Dogger , said Mr. Dance , you have a good horse take up this lad behind you . 
As soon as I was mounted , holding on to Dogger's belt , the supervisor gave the word , and the party struck out at a bouncing trot on the road to Dr . 
The Captain's Papers WE rode hard all the way till we drew up before Dr . 
The house was all dark to the front . 
Mr. Dance told me to jump down and knock , and Dogger gave me a stirrup to descend by . 
The door was opened almost at once by the maid . 
Livesey in ? I asked . 
No , she said , he had come home in the afternoon but had gone up to the hall to dine and pass the evening with the squire . 
So there we go , boys , said Mr. Dance . 
Here Mr. Dance dismounted , and taking me along with him , was admitted at a word into the house . 
Livesey sat , pipe in hand , on either side of a bright fire . 
I had never seen the squire so near at hand . 
His eyebrows were very black , and moved readily , and this gave him a look of some temper , not bad , you would say , but quick and high . 
Come in , Mr. Dance , says he , very stately and condescending . 
Good evening , Dance , says the doctor with a nod . 
And good evening to you , friend Jim . 
When they heard how my mother went back to the inn , Dr . 
Livesey fairly slapped his thigh , and the squire cried Bravo ! and broke his long pipe against the grate . 
At last Mr. Dance finished the story . 
Mr. Dance , said the squire , you are a very noble fellow . 
And as for riding down that black , atrocious miscreant , I regard it as an act of virtue , sir , like stamping on a cockroach . 
This lad Hawkins is a trump , I perceive . 
Hawkins , will you ring that bell ? Mr. Dance must have some ale . 
The doctor looked it all over , as if his fingers were itching to open it but instead of doing that , he put it quietly in the pocket of his coat . 
As you will , Livesey , said the squire Hawkins has earned better than cold pie . 
And now , squire , said the doctor . 
And now , Livesey , said the squire in the same breath . 
One at a time , one at a time , laughed Dr . 
You have heard of this Flint , I suppose ? Heard of him ! cried the squire . 
Heard of him , you say ! He was the bloodthirstiest buccaneer that sailed . 
Blackbeard was a child to Flint . 
The Spaniards were so prodigiously afraid of him that , I tell you , sir , I was sometimes proud he was an Englishman . 
Well , I've heard of him myself , in England , said the doctor . 
But the point is , had he money ? Money ! cried the squire . 
But you are so confoundedly hot headed and exclamatory that I cannot get a word in . 
Very well , said the doctor . 
Now , then , if Jim is agreeable , we'll open the packet and he laid it before him on the table . 
The bundle was sewn together , and the doctor had to get out his instrument case and cut the stitches with his medical scissors . 
It contained two things a book and a sealed paper . 
First of all we'll try the book , observed the doctor . 
The squire and I were both peering over his shoulder as he opened it , for Dr . 
Livesey had kindly motioned me to come round from the side table , where I had been eating , to enjoy the sport of the search . 
On the first page there were only some scraps of writing , such as a man with a pen in his hand might make for idleness or practice . 
I could not help wondering who it was that had got itt , and what itt was that he got . 
A knife in his back as like as not . 
Not much instruction there , said Dr . 
Livesey as he passed on . 
The next ten or twelve pages were filled with a curious series of entries . 
On the th of June , , for instance , a sum of seventy pounds had plainly become due to someone , and there was nothing but six crosses to explain the cause . 
I can't make head or tail of this , said Dr . 
The thing is as clear as noonday , cried the squire . 
This is the black hearted hound's account book . 
These crosses stand for the names of ships or towns that they sank or plundered . 
The sums are the scoundrel's share , and where he feared an ambiguity , you see he added something clearer . 
'Offe Caraccas , now you see , here was some unhappy vessel boarded off that coast . 
God help the poor souls that manned her coral long ago . 
Right ! said the doctor . 
See what it is to be a traveller . 
Right ! And the amounts increase , you see , as he rose in rank . 
Thrifty man ! cried the doctor . 
He wasn't the one to be cheated . 
And now , said the squire , for the other . 
The paper had been sealed in several places with a thimble by way of seal the very thimble , perhaps , that I had found in the captain's pocket . 
The bar silver is in the north cache you can find it by the trend of the east hummock , ten fathoms south of the black crag with the face on it . 
Livesey , said the squire , you will give up this wretched practice at once . 
Tomorrow I start for Bristol . 
In three weeks' time three weeks ! two weeks ten days we'll have the best ship , sir , and the choicest crew in England . 
Hawkins shall come as cabin boy . 
You'll make a famous cabin boy , Hawkins . 
You , Livesey , are ship's doctor I am admiral . 
We'll take Redruth , Joyce , and Hunter . 
Trelawney , said the doctor , I'll go with you and I'll go bail for it , so will Jim , and be a credit to the undertaking . 
There's only one man I'm afraid of . 
And who's that ? cried the squire . 
Name the dog , sir ! You , replied the doctor for you cannot hold your tongue . 
We are not the only men who know of this paper . 
We must none of us go alone till we get to sea . 
Livesey , returned the squire , you are always in the right of it . 
I'll be as silent as the grave . 
PART TWO The Sea cook I Go to Bristol IT was longer than the squire imagined ere we were ready for the sea , and none of our first plans not even Dr . 
Livesey's , of keeping me beside him could be carried out as we intended . 
I brooded by the hour together over the map , all the details of which I well remembered . 
So the weeks passed on , till one fine day there came a letter addressed to Dr . 
Livesey , with this addition , To be opened , in the case of his absence , by Tom Redruth or young Hawkins . 
The ship is bought and fitted . 
She lies at anchor , ready for sea . 
You never imagined a sweeter schooner a child might sail her two hundred tons name , HISPANIOLA . 
I got her through my old friend , Blandly , who has proved himself throughout the most surprising trump . 
Redruth , said I , interrupting the letter , Dr . 
Livesey will not like that . 
The squire has been talking , after all . 
Well , who's a better right ? growled the gamekeeper . 
A pretty rum go if squire ain't to talk for Dr . 
Livesey , I should think . 
At that I gave up all attempts at commentary and read straight on Blandly himself found the HISPANIOLA , and by the most admirable management got her for the merest trifle . 
There is a class of men in Bristol monstrously prejudiced against Blandly . 
None of them dare , however , to deny the merits of the ship . 
Wo far there was not a hitch . 
The workpeople , to be sure riggers and what not were most annoyingly slow but time cured that . 
It was the crew that troubled me . 
I was standing on the dock , when , by the merest accident , I fell in talk with him . 
He had hobbled down there that morning , he said , to get a smell of the salt . 
I was monstrously touched so would you have been and , out of pure pity , I engaged him on the spot to be ship's cook . 
He has no pension , Livesey . 
Imagine the abominable age we live in ! Well , sir , I thought I had only found a cook , but it was a crew I had discovered . 
I declare we could fight a frigate . 
Long John even got rid of two out of the six or seven I had already engaged . 
He showed me in a moment that they were just the sort of fresh water swabs we had to fear in an adventure of importance . 
Seaward , ho ! Hang the treasure ! It's the glory of the sea that has turned my head . 
So now , Livesey , come post do not lose an hour , if you respect me . 
Let young Hawkins go at once to see his mother , with Redruth for a guard and then both come full speed to Bristol . 
Long John Silver unearthed a very competent man for a mate , a man named Arrow . 
I have a boatswain who pipes , Livesey so things shall go man o' war fashion on board the good ship HISPANIOLA . 
I forgot to tell you that Silver is a man of substance I know of my own knowledge that he has a banker's account , which has never been overdrawn . 
J. T. P. P. S. Hawkins may stay one night with his mother . 
J. T. You can fancy the excitement into which that letter put me . 
I was half beside myself with glee and if ever I despised a man , it was old Tom Redruth , who could do nothing but grumble and lament . 
Any of the under gamekeepers would gladly have changed places with him but such was not the squire's pleasure , and the squire's pleasure was like law among them all . 
Nobody but old Redruth would have dared so much as even to grumble . 
The next morning he and I set out on foot for the Admiral Benbow , and there I found my mother in good health and spirits . 
The captain , who had so long been a cause of so much discomfort , was gone where the wicked cease from troubling . 
The squire had had everything repaired , and the public rooms and the sign repainted , and had added some furniture above all a beautiful armchair for mother in the bar . 
He had found her a boy as an apprentice also so that she should not want help while I was gone . 
It was on seeing that boy that I understood , for the first time , my situation . 
The night passed , and the next day , after dinner , Redruth and I were afoot again and on the road . 
One of my last thoughts was of the captain , who had so often strode along the beach with his cocked hat , his sabre cut cheek , and his old brass telescope . 
Next moment we had turned the corner and my home was out of sight . 
The mail picked us up about dusk at the Royal George on the heath . 
Where are we ? I asked . 
Mr. Trelawney had taken up his residence at an inn far down the docks to superintend the work upon the schooner . 
In one , sailors were singing at their work , in another there were men aloft , high over my head , hanging to threads that seemed no thicker than a spider's . 
Though I had lived by the shore all my life , I seemed never to have been near the sea till then . 
The smell of tar and salt was something new . 
I saw the most wonderful figureheads , that had all been far over the ocean . 
Here you are , he cried , and the doctor came last night from London . 
Bravo ! The ship's company complete ! Oh , sir , cried I , when do we sail ? Sail ! says he . 
It was a bright enough little place of entertainment . 
The sign was newly painted the windows had neat red curtains the floor was cleanly sanded . 
The customers were mostly seafaring men , and they talked so loudly that I hung at the door , almost afraid to enter . 
As I was waiting , a man came out of a side room , and at a glance I was sure he must be Long John . 
He was very tall and strong , with a face as big as a ham plain and pale , but intelligent and smiling . 
But one look at the man before me was enough . 
I plucked up courage at once , crossed the threshold , and walked right up to the man where he stood , propped on his crutch , talking to a customer . 
Mr. Silver , sir ? I asked , holding out the note . 
Yes , my lad , said he such is my name , to be sure . 
And who may you be ? And then as he saw the squire's letter , he seemed to me to give something almost like a start . 
Oh ! said he , quite loud , and offering his hand . 
You are our new cabin boy pleased I am to see you . 
And he took my hand in his large firm grasp . 
Just then one of the customers at the far side rose suddenly and made for the door . 
It was close by him , and he was out in the street in a moment . 
But his hurry had attracted my notice , and I recognized him at glance . 
It was the tallow faced man , wanting two fingers , who had come first to the Admiral Benbow . 
Oh , I cried , stop him ! It's Black Dog ! I don't care two coppers who he is , cried Silver . 
But he hasn't paid his score . 
Harry , run and catch him . 
One of the others who was nearest the door leaped up and started in pursuit . 
If he were Admiral Hawke he shall pay his score , cried Silver and then , relinquishing my hand , Who did you say he was ? he asked . 
Black what ? Dog , sir , said I. Has Mr. Trelawney not told you of the buccaneers ? He was one of them . 
In my house ! Ben , run and help Harry . 
One of those swabs , was he ? Was that you drinking with him , Morgan ? Step up here . 
The man whom he called Morgan an old , grey haired , mahogany faced sailor came forward pretty sheepishly , rolling his quid . 
You didn't know his name , did you ? No , sir . 
By the powers , Tom Morgan , it's as good for you ! exclaimed the landlord . 
If you had been mixed up with the like of that , you would never have put another foot in my house , you may lay to that . 
And what was he saying to you ? I don't rightly know , sir , answered Morgan . 
Do you call that a head on your shoulders , or a blessed dead eye ? cried Long John . 
Keel hauling , was you ? And a mighty suitable thing , too , and you may lay to that . 
Get back to your place for a lubber , Tom . 
He used to come here with a blind beggar , he used . 
That he did , you may be sure , said I. I knew that blind man too . 
It was ! cried Silver , now quite excited . 
Pew ! That were his name for certain . 
My suspicions had been thoroughly reawakened on finding Black Dog at the Spy glass , and I watched the cook narrowly . 
You're a lad , you are , but you're as smart as paint . 
I see that when you first come in . 
The score ! he burst out . 
Three goes o' rum ! Why , shiver my timbers , if I hadn't forgotten my score ! And falling on a bench , he laughed until the tears ran down his cheeks . 
I could not help joining , and we laughed together , peal after peal , until the tavern rang again . 
Why , what a precious old sea calf I am ! he said at last , wiping his cheeks . 
You and me should get on well , Hawkins , for I'll take my davy I should be rated ship's boy . 
But come now , stand by to go about . 
Dooty is dooty , messmates . 
I'll put on my old cockerel hat , and step along of you to Cap'n Trelawney , and report this here affair . 
For mind you , it's serious , young Hawkins and neither you nor me's come out of it with what I should make so bold as to call credit . 
Nor you neither , says you not smart none of the pair of us smart . 
But dash my buttons ! That was a good un about my score . 
I began to see that here was one of the best of possible shipmates . 
When we got to the inn , the squire and Dr . 
Livesey were seated together , finishing a quart of ale with a toast in it , before they should go aboard the schooner on a visit of inspection . 
Long John told the story from first to last , with a great deal of spirit and the most perfect truth . 
That was how it were , now , weren't it , Hawkins ? he would say , now and again , and I could always bear him entirely out . 
All hands aboard by four this afternoon , shouted the squire after him . 
Aye , aye , sir , cried the cook , in the passage . 
Well , squire , said Dr . 
Livesey , I don't put much faith in your discoveries , as a general thing but I will say this , John Silver suits me . 
The man's a perfect trump , declared the squire . 
And now , added the doctor , Jim may come on board with us , may he not ? To be sure he may , says squire . 
Take your hat , Hawkins , and we'll see the ship . 
He and the squire were very thick and friendly , but I soon observed that things were not the same between Mr. Trelawney and the captain . 
Captain Smollett , sir , axing to speak with you , said he . 
I am always at the captain's orders . 
Show him in , said the squire . 
The captain , who was close behind his messenger , entered at once and shut the door behind him . 
I don't like this cruise I don't like the men and I don't like my officer . 
Perhaps , sir , you don't like the ship ? inquired the squire , very angry , as I could see . 
I can't speak as to that , sir , not having seen her tried , said the captain . 
She seems a clever craft more I can't say . 
Possibly , sir , you may not like your employer , either ? says the squire . 
Stay a bit , said he , stay a bit . 
No use of such questions as that but to produce ill feeling . 
The captain has said too much or he has said too little , and I'm bound to say that I require an explanation of his words . 
You don't , you say , like this cruise . 
Now , why ? I was engaged , sir , on what we call sealed orders , to sail this ship for that gentleman where he should bid me , said the captain . 
But now I find that every man before the mast knows more than I do . 
I don't call that fair , now , do you ? No , said Dr . 
Next , said the captain , I learn we are going after treasure hear it from my own hands , mind you . 
the secret has been told to the parrot . 
Silver's parrot ? asked the squire . 
It's a way of speaking , said the captain . 
It's my belief neither of you gentlemen know what you are about , but I'll tell you my way of it life or death , and a close run . 
That is all clear , and , I dare say , true enough , replied Dr . 
We take the risk , but we are not so ignorant as you believe us . 
Next , you say you don't like the crew . 
Are they not good seamen ? I don't like them , sir , returned Captain Smollett . 
And I think I should have had the choosing of my own hands , if you go to that . 
Perhaps you should , replied the doctor . 
My friend should , perhaps , have taken you along with him but the slight , if there be one , was unintentional . 
And you don't like Mr. Arrow ? I don't , sir . 
I believe he's a good seaman , but he's too free with the crew to be a good officer . 
A mate should keep himself to himself shouldn't drink with the men before the mast ! Do you mean he drinks ? cried the squire . 
No , sir , replied the captain , only that he's too familiar . 
Well , now , and the short and long of it , captain ? asked the doctor . 
Tell us what you want . 
Well , gentlemen , are you determined to go on this cruise ? Like iron , answered the squire . 
Very good , said the captain . 
Then , as you've heard me very patiently , saying things that I could not prove , hear me a few words more . 
They are putting the powder and the arms in the fore hold . 
Now , you have a good place under the cabin why not put them there ? first point . 
Then , you are bringing four of your own people with you , and they tell me some of them are to be berthed forward . 
Why not give them the berths here beside the cabin ? second point . 
Any more ? asked Mr. Trelawney . 
One more , said the captain . 
There's been too much blabbing already . 
Far too much , agreed the doctor . 
I never told that , cried the squire , to a soul ! The hands know it , sir , returned the captain . 
Livesey , that must have been you or Hawkins , cried the squire . 
It doesn't much matter who it was , replied the doctor . 
And I could see that neither he nor the captain paid much regard to Mr. Trelawney's protestations . 
Well , gentlemen , continued the captain , I don't know who has this map but I make it a point , it shall be kept secret even from me and Mr. Arrow . 
Otherwise I would ask you to let me resign . 
I see , said the doctor . 
In other words , you fear a mutiny . 
Sir , said Captain Smollett , with no intention to take offence , I deny your right to put words into my mouth . 
No captain , sir , would be justified in going to sea at all if he had ground enough to say that . 
As for Mr. Arrow , I believe him thoroughly honest some of the men are the same all may be for what I know . 
But I am responsible for the ship's safety and the life of every man Jack aboard of her . 
I see things going , as I think , not quite right . 
And I ask you to take certain precautions or let me resign my berth . 
When you came in here , I'll stake my wig , you meant more than this . 
Doctor , said the captain , you are smart . 
When I came in here I meant to get discharged . 
I had no thought that Mr. Trelawney would hear a word . 
No more I would , cried the squire . 
Had Livesey not been here I should have seen you to the deuce . 
As it is , I have heard you . 
I will do as you desire , but I think the worse of you . 
That's as you please , sir , said the captain . 
You'll find I do my duty . 
And with that he took his leave . 
Trelawney , said the doctor , contrary to all my notions , I believed you have managed to get two honest men on board with you that man and John Silver . 
Silver , if you like , cried the squire but as for that intolerable humbug , I declare I think his conduct unmanly , unsailorly , and downright un English . 
Well , says the doctor , we shall see . 
The new arrangement was quite to my liking . 
It had been originally meant that the captain , Mr. Arrow , Hunter , Joyce , the doctor , and the squire were to occupy these six berths . 
Very low it was still , of course but there was room to swing two hammocks , and even the mate seemed pleased with the arrangement . 
The cook came up the side like a monkey for cleverness , and as soon as he saw what was doing , So ho , mates ! says he . 
What's this ? We're a changing of the powder , Jack , answers one . 
Why , by the powers , cried Long John , if we do , we'll miss the morning tide ! My orders ! said the captain shortly . 
You may go below , my man . 
Aye , aye , sir , answered the cook , and touching his forelock , he disappeared at once in the direction of his galley . 
That's a good man , captain , said the doctor . 
Very likely , sir , replied Captain Smollett . 
And then as I was hurrying off I heard him say , quite loudly , to the doctor , I'll have no favourites on my ship . 
I assure you I was quite of the squire's way of thinking , and hated the captain deeply . 
Now , Barbecue , tip us a stave , cried one voice . 
The old one , cried another . 
Even at that exciting moment it carried me back to the old Admiral Benbow in a second , and I seemed to hear the voice of the captain piping in the chorus . 
I am not going to relate that voyage in detail . 
The ship proved to be a good ship , the crew were capable seamen , and the captain thoroughly understood his business . 
But before we came the length of Treasure Island , two or three things had happened which require to be known . 
Mr. Arrow , first of all , turned out even worse than the captain had feared . 
He had no command among the men , and people did what they pleased with him . 
Time after time he was ordered below in disgrace . 
In the meantime , we could never make out where he got the drink . 
That was the ship's mystery . 
Overboard ! said the captain . 
Well , gentlemen , that saves the trouble of putting him in irons . 
But there we were , without a mate and it was necessary , of course , to advance one of the men . 
The boatswain , Job Anderson , was the likeliest man aboard , and though he kept his old title , he served in a way as mate . 
Mr. Trelawney had followed the sea , and his knowledge made him very useful , for he often took a watch himself in easy weather . 
And the coxswain , Israel Hands , was a careful , wily , old , experienced seaman who could be trusted at a pinch with almost anything . 
Aboard ship he carried his crutch by a lanyard round his neck , to have both hands as free as possible . 
Still more strange was it to see him in the heaviest of weather cross the deck . 
Yet some of the men who had sailed with him before expressed their pity to see him so reduced . 
He's no common man , Barbecue , said the coxswain to me . 
All the crew respected and even obeyed him . 
He had a way of talking to each and doing everybody some particular service . 
Come away , Hawkins , he would say come and have a yarn with John . 
Nobody more welcome than yourself , my son . 
Sit you down and hear the news . 
Here's Cap'n Flint I calls my parrot Cap'n Flint , after the famous buccaneer here's Cap'n Flint predicting success to our v'yage . 
She's sailed with England , the great Cap'n England , the pirate . 
She's been at Madagascar , and at Malabar , and Surinam , and Providence , and Portobello . 
She was at the fishing up of the wrecked plate ships . 
But you smelt powder didn't you , cap'n ? Stand by to go about , the parrot would scream . 
There , John would add , you can't touch pitch and not be mucked , lad . 
Here's this poor old innocent bird o' mine swearing blue fire , and none the wiser , you may lay to that . 
She would swear the same , in a manner of speaking , before chaplain . 
And John would touch his forelock with a solemn way he had that made me think he was the best of men . 
In the meantime , the squire and Captain Smollett were still on pretty distant terms with one another . 
The squire made no bones about the matter he despised the captain . 
The captain , on his part , never spoke but when he was spoken to , and then sharp and short and dry , and not a word wasted . 
As for the ship , he had taken a downright fancy to her . 
She'll lie a point nearer the wind than a man has a right to expect of his own married wife , sir . 
But , he would add , all I say is , we're not home again , and I don't like the cruise . 
The squire , at this , would turn away and march up and down the deck , chin in air . 
A trifle more of that man , he would say , and I shall explode . 
We had some heavy weather , which only proved the qualities of the HISPANIOLA . 
Never knew good come of it yet , the captain said to Dr . 
Spoil forecastle hands , make devils . 
This was how it came about . 
We were heading S. S. W. and had a steady breeze abeam and a quiet sea . 
The HISPANIOLA rolled steadily , dipping her bowsprit now and then with a whiff of spray . 
All was drawing alow and aloft everyone was in the bravest spirits because we were now so near an end of the first part of our adventure . 
Now , just after sundown , when all my work was over and I was on my way to my berth , it occurred to me that I should like an apple . 
The watch was all forward looking out for the island . 
The barrel shook as he leaned his shoulders against it , and I was just about to jump up when the man began to speak . 
What I Heard in the Apple Barrel NO , not I , said Silver . 
Flint was cap'n I was quartermaster , along of my timber leg . 
The same broadside I lost my leg , old Pew lost his deadlights . 
That was Roberts' men , that was , and comed of changing names to their ships ROYAL FORTUNE and so on . 
Now , what a ship was christened , so let her stay , I says . 
Ah ! cried another voice , that of the youngest hand on board , and evidently full of admiration . 
He was the flower of the flock , was Flint ! Davis was a man too , by all accounts , said Silver . 
I never sailed along of him first with England , then with Flint , that's my story and now here on my own account , in a manner of speaking . 
I laid by nine hundred safe , from England , and two thousand after Flint . 
That ain't bad for a man before the mast all safe in bank . 
'Tain't earning now , it's saving does it , you may lay to that . 
Where's all England's men now ? I dunno . 
Where's Flint's ? Why , most on 'em aboard here , and glad to get the duff been begging before that , some on 'em . 
Old Pew , as had lost his sight , and might have thought shame , spends twelve hundred pound in a year , like a lord in Parliament . 
'Tain't much use for fools , you may lay to it that , nor nothing , cried Silver . 
But now , you look here you're young , you are , but you're as smart as paint . 
I see that when I set my eyes on you , and I'll talk to you like a man . 
You may imagine how I felt when I heard this abominable old rogue addressing another in the very same words of flattery as he had used to myself . 
I think , if I had been able , that I would have killed him through the barrel . 
Meantime , he ran on , little supposing he was overheard . 
Here it is about gentlemen of fortune . 
Now , the most goes for rum and a good fling , and to sea again in their shirts . 
But that's not the course I lay . 
I puts it all away , some here , some there , and none too much anywheres , by reason of suspicion . 
I'm fifty , mark you once back from this cruise , I set up gentleman in earnest . 
Time enough too , says you . 
Ah , but I've lived easy in the meantime , never denied myself o' nothing heart desires , and slep' soft and ate dainty all my days but when at sea . 
Why , where might you suppose it was ? asked Silver derisively . 
At Bristol , in banks and places , answered his companion . 
It were , said the cook it were when we weighed anchor . 
But my old missis has it all by now . 
And the Spy glass is sold , lease and goodwill and rigging and the old girl's off to meet me . 
I would tell you where , for I trust you , but it'd make jealousy among the mates . 
And can you trust your missis ? asked the other . 
Gentlemen of fortune , returned the cook , usually trusts little among themselves , and right they are , you may lay to it . 
But I have a way with me , I have . 
When a mate brings a slip on his cable one as knows me , I mean it won't be in the same world with old John . 
There was some that was feared of Pew , and some that was feared of Flint but Flint his own self was feared of me . 
Feared he was , and proud . 
They was the roughest crew afloat , was Flint's the devil himself would have been feared to go to sea with them . 
Ah , you may be sure of yourself in old John's ship . 
By this time I had begun to understand the meaning of their terms . 
But on this point I was soon to be relieved , for Silver giving a little whistle , a third man strolled up and sat down by the party . 
Dick's square , said Silver . 
Oh , I know'd Dick was square , returned the voice of the coxswain , Israel Hands . 
He's no fool , is Dick . 
And he turned his quid and spat . 
I want their pickles and wines , and that . 
Israel , said Silver , your head ain't much account , nor ever was . 
But you're able to hear , I reckon leastways , your ears is big enough . 
Well , I don't say no , do I ? growled the coxswain . 
What I say is , when ? That's what I say . 
When ! By the powers ! cried Silver . 
Well now , if you want to know , I'll tell you when . 
The last moment I can manage , and that's when . 
Here's a first rate seaman , Cap'n Smollett , sails the blessed ship for us . 
Here's this squire and doctor with a map and such I don't know where it is , do I ? No more do you , says you . 
Well then , I mean this squire and doctor shall find the stuff , and help us to get it aboard , by the powers . 
If I was sure of you all , sons of double Dutchmen , I'd have Cap'n Smollett navigate us half way back again before I struck . 
Why , we're all seamen aboard here , I should think , said the lad Dick . 
We're all forecastle hands , you mean , snapped Silver . 
We can steer a course , but who's to set one ? That's what all you gentlemen split on , first and last . 
If I had my way , I'd have Cap'n Smollett work us back into the trades at least then we'd have no blessed miscalculations and a spoonful of water a day . 
But I know the sort you are . 
I'll finish with 'em at the island , as soon's the blunt's on board , and a pity it is . 
But you're never happy till you're drunk . 
Split my sides , I've a sick heart to sail with the likes of you ! Easy all , Long John , cried Israel . 
And all for this same hurry and hurry and hurry . 
You hear me ? I seen a thing or two at sea , I have . 
If you would on'y lay your course , and a p'int to windward , you would ride in carriages , you would . 
But not you ! I know you . 
You'll have your mouthful of rum tomorrow , and go hang . 
Everybody knowed you was a kind of a chapling , John but there's others as could hand and steer as well as you , said Israel . 
They liked a bit o' fun , they did . 
They wasn't so high and dry , nohow , but took their fling , like jolly companions every one . 
Well , and where are they now ? Pew was that sort , and he died a beggar man . 
Flint was , and he died of rum at Savannah . 
That's what I call business . 
Well , what would you think ? Put 'em ashore like maroons ? That would have been England's way . 
Or cut 'em down like that much pork ? That would have been Flint's , or Billy Bones's . 
Billy was the man for that , said Israel . 
'Dead men don't bite , says he . 
Well , he's dead now hisself he knows the long and short on it now and if ever a rough hand come to port , it was Billy . 
Right you are , said Silver rough and ready . 
But mark you here , I'm an easy man I'm quite the gentleman , says you but this time it's serious . 
Dooty is dooty , mates . 
I give my vote death . 
When I'm in Parlyment and riding in my coach , I don't want none of these sea lawyers in the cabin a coming home , unlooked for , like the devil at prayers . 
Only one thing I claim I claim Trelawney . 
I'll wring his calf's head off his body with these hands , Dick ! he added , breaking off . 
You just jump up , like a sweet lad , and get me an apple , to wet my pipe like . 
You may fancy the terror I was in ! I should have leaped out and run for it if I had found the strength , but my limbs and heart alike misgave me . 
Let's have a go of the rum . 
Dick , said Silver , I trust you . 
I've a gauge on the keg , mind . 
There's the key you fill a pannikin and bring it up . 
Terrified as I was , I could not help thinking to myself that this must have been how Mr. Arrow got the strong waters that destroyed him . 
Dick was gone but a little while , and during his absence Israel spoke straight on in the cook's ear . 
Hence there were still faithful men on board . 
Livesey in the rush for the weather bow . 
There all hands were already congregated . 
A belt of fog had lifted almost simultaneously with the appearance of the moon . 
All three seemed sharp and conical in figure . 
So much I saw , almost in a dream , for I had not yet recovered from my horrid fear of a minute or two before . 
And then I heard the voice of Captain Smollett issuing orders . 
The HISPANIOLA was laid a couple of points nearer the wind and now sailed a course that would just clear the island on the east . 
And now , men , said the captain , when all was sheeted home , has any one of you ever seen that land ahead ? I have , sir , said Silver . 
I've watered there with a trader I was cook in . 
The anchorage is on the south , behind an islet , I fancy ? asked the captain . 
Yes , sir Skeleton Island they calls it . 
It were a main place for pirates once , and a hand we had on board knowed all their names for it . 
That hill to the nor'ard they calls the Fore mast Hill there are three hills in a row running south'ard fore , main , and mizzen , sir . 
I have a chart here , says Captain Smollett . 
See if that's the place . 
Long John's eyes burned in his head as he took the chart , but by the fresh look of the paper I knew he was doomed to disappointment . 
Sharp as must have been his annoyance , Silver had the strength of mind to hide it . 
Yes , sir , said he , this is the spot , to be sure , and very prettily drawed out . 
Who might have done that , I wonder ? The pirates were too ignorant , I reckon . 
Aye , here it is 'Capt . 
Kidd's Anchorage' just the name my shipmate called it . 
There's a strong current runs along the south , and then away nor'ard up the west coast . 
Right you was , sir , says he , to haul your wind and keep the weather of the island . 
Leastways , if such was your intention as to enter and careen , and there ain't no better place for that in these waters . 
Thank you , my man , says Captain Smollett . 
I'll ask you later on to give us a help . 
I was surprised at the coolness with which John avowed his knowledge of the island , and I own I was half frightened when I saw him drawing nearer to myself . 
Ah , says he , this here is a sweet spot , this island a sweet spot for a lad to get ashore on . 
You'll bathe , and you'll climb trees , and you'll hunt goats , you will and you'll get aloft on them hills like a goat yourself . 
Why , it makes me young again . 
I was going to forget my timber leg , I was . 
It's a pleasant thing to be young and have ten toes , and you may lay to that . 
When you want to go a bit of exploring , you just ask old John , and he'll put up a snack for you to take along . 
And clapping me in the friendliest way upon the shoulder , he hobbled off forward and went below . 
Captain Smollett , the squire , and Dr . 
Livesey were talking together on the quarter deck , and anxious as I was to tell them my story , I durst not interrupt them openly . 
While I was still casting about in my thoughts to find some probable excuse , Dr . 
Livesey called me to his side . 
Get the captain and squire down to the cabin , and then make some pretence to send for me . 
The doctor changed countenance a little , but next moment he was master of himself . 
Thank you , Jim , said he quite loudly , that was all I wanted to know , as if he had asked me a question . 
And with that he turned on his heel and rejoined the other two . 
They spoke together for a little , and though none of them started , or raised his voice , or so much as whistled , it was plain enough that Dr . 
Livesey had communicated my request , for the next thing that I heard was the captain giving an order to Job Anderson , and all hands were piped on deck . 
My lads , said Captain Smollett , I've a word to say to you . 
This land that we have sighted is the place we have been sailing for . 
I'll tell you what I think of this I think it handsome . 
And if you think as I do , you'll give a good sea cheer for the gentleman that does it . 
The cheer followed that was a matter of course but it rang out so full and hearty that I confess I could hardly believe these same men were plotting for our blood . 
One more cheer for Cap'n Smollett , cried Long John when the first had subsided . 
And this also was given with a will . 
On the top of that the three gentlemen went below , and not long after , word was sent forward that Jim Hawkins was wanted in the cabin . 
The stern window was open , for it was a warm night , and you could see the moon shining behind on the ship's wake . 
Now , Hawkins , said the squire , you have something to say . 
I did as I was bid , and as short as I could make it , told the whole details of Silver's conversation . 
Livesey , take a seat . 
Now , captain , said the squire , you were right , and I was wrong . 
I own myself an ass , and I await your orders . 
No more an ass than I , sir , returned the captain . 
But this crew , he added , beats me . 
Captain , said the doctor , with your permission , that's Silver . 
He'd look remarkably well from a yard arm , sir , returned the captain . 
But this is talk this don't lead to anything . 
I see three or four points , and with Mr. Trelawney's permission , I'll name them . 
You , sir , are the captain . 
It is for you to speak , says Mr. Trelawney grandly . 
First point , began Mr. Smollett . 
We must go on , because we can't turn back . 
If I gave the word to go about , they would rise at once . 
Second point , we have time before us at least until this treasure's found . 
Third point , there are faithful hands . 
We can count , I take it , on your own home servants , Mr. Trelawney ? As upon myself , declared the squire . 
Three , reckoned the captain ourselves make seven , counting Hawkins here . 
Now , about the honest hands ? Most likely Trelawney's own men , said the doctor those he had picked up for himself before he lit on Silver . 
Nay , replied the squire . 
Hands was one of mine . 
I did think I could have trusted Hands , added the captain . 
And to think that they're all Englishmen ! broke out the squire . 
Sir , I could find it in my heart to blow the ship up . 
Well , gentlemen , said the captain , the best that I can say is not much . 
We must lay to , if you please , and keep a bright lookout . 
It's trying on a man , I know . 
It would be pleasanter to come to blows . 
But there's no help for it till we know our men . 
Lay to , and whistle for a wind , that's my view . 
Jim here , said the doctor , can help us more than anyone . 
The men are not shy with him , and Jim is a noticing lad . 
Hawkins , I put prodigious faith in you , added the squire . 
I began to feel pretty desperate at this , for I felt altogether helpless and yet , by an odd train of circumstances , it was indeed through me that safety came . 
PART THREE My Shore Adventure How My Shore Adventure Began THE appearance of the island when I came on deck next morning was altogether changed . 
Grey coloured woods covered a large part of the surface . 
The hills ran up clear above the vegetation in spires of naked rock . 
The HISPANIOLA was rolling scuppers under in the ocean swell . 
The booms were tearing at the blocks , the rudder was banging to and fro , and the whole ship creaking , groaning , and jumping like a manufactory . 
I volunteered for one of the boats , where I had , of course , no business . 
The heat was sweltering , and the men grumbled fiercely over their work . 
Anderson was in command of my boat , and instead of keeping the crew in order , he grumbled as loud as the worst . 
Well , he said with an oath , it's not forever . 
All the way in , Long John stood by the steersman and conned the ship . 
He knew the passage like the palm of his hand , and though the man in the chains got everywhere more water than was down in the chart , John never hesitated once . 
There's a strong scour with the ebb , he said , and this here passage has been dug out , in a manner of speaking , with a spade . 
We brought up just where the anchor was in the chart , about a third of a mile from each shore , the mainland on one side and Skeleton Island on the other . 
The bottom was clean sand . 
The plunge of our anchor sent up clouds of birds wheeling and crying over the woods , but in less than a minute they were down again and all was once more silent . 
There was not a breath of air moving , nor a sound but that of the surf booming half a mile away along the beaches and against the rocks outside . 
A peculiar stagnant smell hung over the anchorage a smell of sodden leaves and rotting tree trunks . 
I observed the doctor sniffing and sniffing , like someone tasting a bad egg . 
I don't know about treasure , he said , but I'll stake my wig there's fever here . 
If the conduct of the men had been alarming in the boat , it became truly threatening when they had come aboard . 
They lay about the deck growling together in talk . 
The slightest order was received with a black look and grudgingly and carelessly obeyed . 
Even the honest hands must have caught the infection , for there was not one man aboard to mend another . 
Mutiny , it was plain , hung over us like a thunder cloud . 
And it was not only we of the cabin party who perceived the danger . 
Long John was hard at work going from group to group , spending himself in good advice , and as for example no man could have shown a better . 
He fairly outstripped himself in willingness and civility he was all smiles to everyone . 
Of all the gloomy features of that gloomy afternoon , this obvious anxiety on the part of Long John appeared the worst . 
We held a council in the cabin . 
Sir , said the captain , if I risk another order , the whole ship'll come about our ears by the run . 
You see , sir , here it is . 
Now , we've only one man to rely on . 
And who is that ? asked the squire . 
Silver , sir , returned the captain he's as anxious as you and I to smother things up . 
This is a tiff he'd soon talk 'em out of it if he had the chance , and what I propose to do is to give him the chance . 
Let's allow the men an afternoon ashore . 
If they all go , why we'll fight the ship . 
If they none of them go , well then , we hold the cabin , and God defend the right . 
If some go , you mark my words , sir , Silver'll bring 'em aboard again as mild as lambs . 
My lads , said he , we've had a hot day and are all tired and out of sorts . 
A turn ashore'll hurt nobody the boats are still in the water you can take the gigs , and as many as please may go ashore for the afternoon . 
I'll fire a gun half an hour before sundown . 
The captain was too bright to be in the way . 
He whipped out of sight in a moment , leaving Silver to arrange the party , and I fancy it was as well he did so . 
Had he been on deck , he could no longer so much as have pretended not to understand the situation . 
It was as plain as day . 
Silver was the captain , and a mighty rebellious crew he had of it . 
The honest hands and I was soon to see it proved that there were such on board must have been very stupid fellows . 
It is one thing to be idle and skulk and quite another to take a ship and murder a number of innocent men . 
At last , however , the party was made up . 
Six fellows were to stay on board , and the remaining thirteen , including Silver , began to embark . 
Then it was that there came into my head the first of the mad notions that contributed so much to save our lives . 
It occurred to me at once to go ashore . 
In a jiffy I had slipped over the side and curled up in the fore sheets of the nearest boat , and almost at the same moment she shoved off . 
No one took notice of me , only the bow oar saying , Is that you , Jim ? Keep your head down . 
But Silver , from the other boat , looked sharply over and called out to know if that were me and from that moment I began to regret what I had done . 
Jim , Jim ! I heard him shouting . 
But you may suppose I paid no heed jumping , ducking , and breaking through , I ran straight before my nose till I could run no longer . 
On the far side of the open stood one of the hills , with two quaint , craggy peaks shining vividly in the sun . 
I now felt for the first time the joy of exploration . 
The isle was uninhabited my shipmates I had left behind , and nothing lived in front of me but dumb brutes and fowls . 
I turned hither and thither among the trees . 
Little did I suppose that he was a deadly enemy and that the noise was the famous rattle . 
The marsh was steaming in the strong sun , and the outline of the Spy glass trembled through the haze . 
I judged at once that some of my shipmates must be drawing near along the borders of the fen . 
This put me in a great fear , and I crawled under cover of the nearest live oak and squatted there , hearkening , as silent as a mouse . 
By the sound they must have been talking earnestly , and almost fiercely but no distinct word came to my hearing . 
The sun beat full upon them . 
If I turn agin my dooty And then all of a sudden he was interrupted by a noise . 
I had found one of the honest hands well , here , at that same moment , came news of another . 
Tom had leaped at the sound , like a horse at the spur , but Silver had not winked an eye . 
He stood where he was , resting lightly on his crutch , watching his companion like a snake about to spring . 
John ! said the sailor , stretching out his hand . 
Hands off ! cried Silver , leaping back a yard , as it seemed to me , with the speed and security of a trained gymnast . 
Hands off , if you like , John Silver , said the other . 
It's a black conscience that can make you feared of me . 
That ? Oh , I reckon that'll be Alan . 
And at this point Tom flashed out like a hero . 
Then rest his soul for a true seaman ! And as for you , John Silver , long you've been a mate of mine , but you're mate of mine no more . 
If I die like a dog , I'll die in my dooty . 
You've killed Alan , have you ? Kill me too , if you can . 
And with that , this brave fellow turned his back directly on the cook and set off walking for the beach . 
But he was not destined to go far . 
With a cry John seized the branch of a tree , whipped the crutch out of his armpit , and sent that uncouth missile hurtling through the air . 
It struck poor Tom , point foremost , and with stunning violence , right between the shoulders in the middle of his back . 
His hands flew up , he gave a sort of gasp , and fell . 
Whether he were injured much or little , none could ever tell . 
Like enough , to judge from the sound , his back was broken on the spot . 
But he had no time given him to recover . 
From my place of ambush , I could hear him pant aloud as he struck the blows . 
When I came again to myself the monster had pulled himself together , his crutch under his arm , his hat upon his head . 
Just before him Tom lay motionless upon the sward but the murderer minded him not a whit , cleansing his blood stained knife the while upon a wisp of grass . 
But now John put his hand into his pocket , brought out a whistle , and blew upon it several modulated blasts that rang far across the heated air . 
I could not tell , of course , the meaning of the signal , but it instantly awoke my fears . 
More men would be coming . 
As I did so , I could hear hails coming and going between the old buccaneer and his comrades , and this sound of danger lent me wings . 
Mingled with these were a few scattered pines , some fifty , some nearer seventy , feet high . 
The air too smelt more freshly than down beside the marsh . 
And here a fresh alarm brought me to a standstill with a thumping heart . 
The Man of the Island FROM the side of the hill , which was here steep and stony , a spout of gravel was dislodged and fell rattling and bounding through the trees . 
My eyes turned instinctively in that direction , and I saw a figure leap with great rapidity behind the trunk of a pine . 
What it was , whether bear or man or monkey , I could in no wise tell . 
It seemed dark and shaggy more I knew not . 
But the terror of this new apparition brought me to a stand . 
I was now , it seemed , cut off upon both sides behind me the murderers , before me this lurking nondescript . 
And immediately I began to prefer the dangers that I knew to those I knew not . 
Instantly the figure reappeared , and making a wide circuit , began to head me off . 
From trunk to trunk the creature flitted like a deer , running manlike on two legs , but unlike any man that I had ever seen , stooping almost double as it ran . 
Yet a man it was , I could no longer be in doubt about that . 
I began to recall what I had heard of cannibals . 
I was within an ace of calling for help . 
But the mere fact that he was a man , however wild , had somewhat reassured me , and my fear of Silver began to revive in proportion . 
I stood still , therefore , and cast about for some method of escape and as I was so thinking , the recollection of my pistol flashed into my mind . 
As soon as I remembered I was not defenceless , courage glowed again in my heart and I set my face resolutely for this man of the island and walked briskly towards him . 
At that I once more stopped . 
Who are you ? I asked . 
Ben Gunn , he answered , and his voice sounded hoarse and awkward , like a rusty lock . 
I'm poor Ben Gunn , I am and I haven't spoke with a Christian these three years . 
I could now see that he was a white man like myself and that his features were even pleasing . 
His skin , wherever it was exposed , was burnt by the sun even his lips were black , and his fair eyes looked quite startling in so dark a face . 
Of all the beggar men that I had seen or fancied , he was the chief for raggedness . 
About his waist he wore an old brass buckled leather belt , which was the one thing solid in his whole accoutrement . 
Three years ! I cried . 
Were you shipwrecked ? Nay , mate , said he marooned . 
Marooned three years agone , he continued , and lived on goats since then , and berries , and oysters . 
Wherever a man is , says I , a man can do for himself . 
But , mate , my heart is sore for Christian diet . 
If ever I can get aboard again , said I , you shall have cheese by the stone . 
But at my last words he perked up into a kind of startled slyness . 
If ever you can get aboard again , says you ? he repeated . 
Why , now , who's to hinder you ? Not you , I know , was my reply . 
And right you was , he cried . 
Now you what do you call yourself , mate ? Jim , I told him . 
Jim , Jim , says he , quite pleased apparently . 
Well , now , Jim , I've lived that rough as you'd be ashamed to hear of . 
Now , for instance , you wouldn't think I had had a pious mother to look at me ? he asked . 
Why , no , not in particular , I answered . 
Ah , well , said he , but I had remarkable pious . 
And I was a civil , pious boy , and could rattle off my catechism that fast , as you couldn't tell one word from another . 
I've thought it all out in this here lonely island , and I'm back on piety . 
You don't catch me tasting rum so much , but just a thimbleful for luck , of course , the first chance I have . 
I'm bound I'll be good , and I see the way to . 
And , Jim looking all round him and lowering his voice to a whisper I'm rich . 
And I'll tell you what I'll make a man of you , Jim . 
Now , Jim , you tell me true that ain't Flint's ship ? he asked . 
At this I had a happy inspiration . 
I began to believe that I had found an ally , and I answered him at once . 
It's not Flint's ship , and Flint is dead but I'll tell you true , as you ask me there are some of Flint's hands aboard worse luck for the rest of us . 
Not a man with one leg ? he gasped . 
Ah , Silver ! says he . 
He's the cook , and the ringleader too . 
He was still holding me by the wrist , and at that he give it quite a wring . 
If you was sent by Long John , he said , I'm as good as pork , and I know it . 
He heard me with the keenest interest , and when I had done he patted me on the head . 
AND a passage home ? he added with a look of great shrewdness . 
Why , I cried , the squire's a gentleman . 
And besides , if we got rid of the others , we should want you to help work the vessel home . 
Ah , said he , so you would . 
And he seemed very much relieved . 
Now , I'll tell you what , he went on . 
So much I'll tell you , and no more . 
I were in Flint's ship when he buried the treasure he and six along six strong seamen . 
They was ashore nigh on a week , and us standing off and on in the old WALRUS . 
One fine day up went the signal , and here come Flint by himself in a little boat , and his head done up in a blue scarf . 
The sun was getting up , and mortal white he looked about the cutwater . 
But , there he was , you mind , and the six all dead dead and buried . 
How he done it , not a man aboard us could make out . 
It was battle , murder , and sudden death , leastways him against six . 
Billy Bones was the mate Long John , he was quartermaster and they asked him where the treasure was . 
Well , I was in another ship three years back , and we sighted this island . 
'Boys , said I , 'here's Flint's treasure let's land and find it . 
The cap'n was displeased at that , but my messmates were all of a mind and landed . 
Twelve days they looked for it , and every day they had the worse word for me , until one fine morning all hands went aboard . 
'As for you , Benjamin Gunn , says they , 'here's a musket , they says , 'and a spade , and pick axe . 
You can stay here and find Flint's money for yourself , they says . 
Well , Jim , three years have I been here , and not a bite of Christian diet from that day to this . 
But now , you look here look at me . 
Do I look like a man before the mast ? No , says you . 
Nor I weren't , neither , I says . 
And with that he winked and pinched me hard . 
Just you mention them words to your squire , Jim , he went on . 
Nor he weren't , neither that's the words . 
the most part of his time was took up with another matter . 
And then you'll give him a nip , like I do . 
And he pinched me again in the most confidential manner . 
, and he puts a precious sight more confidence a precious sight , mind that in a gen'leman born than in these gen'leman of fortune , having been one hisself . 
Well , I said , I don't understand one word that you've been saying . 
But that's neither here nor there for how am I to get on board ? Ah , said he , that's the hitch , for sure . 
Well , there's my boat , that I made with my two hands . 
I keep her under the white rock . 
If the worst come to the worst , we might try that after dark . 
Hi ! he broke out . 
They have begun to fight ! I cried . 
And I began to run towards the anchorage , my terrors all forgotten , while close at my side the marooned man in his goatskins trotted easily and lightly . 
Left , left , says he keep to your left hand , mate Jim ! Under the trees with you ! Theer's where I killed my first goat . 
They don't come down here now they're all mastheaded on them mountings for the fear of Benjamin Gunn . 
Ah ! And there's the cetemery cemetery , he must have meant . 
You see the mounds ? I come here and prayed , nows and thens , when I thought maybe a Sunday would be about doo . 
So he kept talking as I ran , neither expecting nor receiving any answer . 
The cannon shot was followed after a considerable interval by a volley of small arms . 
Another pause , and then , not a quarter of a mile in front of me , I beheld the Union Jack flutter in the air above a wood . 
The captain , the squire , and I were talking matters over in the cabin . 
Had there been a breath of wind , we should have fallen on the six mutineers who were left aboard with us , slipped our cable , and away to sea . 
But the wind was wanting and to complete our helplessness , down came Hunter with the news that Jim Hawkins had slipped into a boat and was gone ashore with the rest . 
It never occurred to us to doubt Jim Hawkins , but we were alarmed for his safety . 
With the men in the temper they were in , it seemed an even chance if we should see the lad again . 
The pitch was bubbling in the seams the nasty stench of the place turned me sick if ever a man smelt fever and dysentery , it was in that abominable anchorage . 
One of them was whistling Lillibullero . 
Waiting was a strain , and it was decided that Hunter and I should go ashore with the jolly boat in quest of information . 
The gigs had leaned to their right , but Hunter and I pulled straight in , in the direction of the stockade upon the chart . 
The two who were left guarding their boats seemed in a bustle at our appearance Lillibullero stopped off , and I could see the pair discussing what they ought to do . 
There was a slight bend in the coast , and I steered so as to put it between us even before we landed we had thus lost sight of the gigs . 
I jumped out and came as near running as I durst , with a big silk handkerchief under my hat for coolness' sake and a brace of pistols ready primed for safety . 
I had not gone a hundred yards when I reached the stockade . 
This was how it was a spring of clear water rose almost at the top of a knoll . 
The people in the log house had them in every way they stood quiet in shelter and shot the others like partridges . 
All they wanted was a good watch and food for , short of a complete surprise , they might have held the place against a regiment . 
What particularly took my fancy was the spring . 
I was thinking this over when there came ringing over the island the cry of a man at the point of death . 
Jim Hawkins is gone , was my first thought . 
It is something to have been an old soldier , but more still to have been a doctor . 
There is no time to dilly dally in our work . 
And so now I made up my mind instantly , and with no time lost returned to the shore and jumped on board the jolly boat . 
By good fortune Hunter pulled a good oar . 
We made the water fly , and the boat was soon alongside and I aboard the schooner . 
I found them all shaken , as was natural . 
There's a man , says Captain Smollett , nodding towards him , new to this work . 
He came nigh hand fainting , doctor , when he heard the cry . 
Another touch of the rudder and that man would join us . 
I told my plan to the captain , and between us we settled on the details of its accomplishment . 
We put old Redruth in the gallery between the cabin and the forecastle , with three or four loaded muskets and a mattress for protection . 
In the meantime , the squire and the captain stayed on deck , and the latter hailed the coxswain , who was the principal man aboard . 
Mr. Hands , he said , here are two of us with a brace of pistols each . 
If any one of you six make a signal of any description , that man's dead . 
They were a good deal taken aback , and after a little consultation one and all tumbled down the fore companion , thinking no doubt to take us on the rear . 
But when they saw Redruth waiting for them in the sparred galley , they went about ship at once , and a head popped out again on deck . 
Down , dog ! cries the captain . 
And the head popped back again and we heard no more , for the time , of these six very faint hearted seamen . 
By this time , tumbling things in as they came , we had the jolly boat loaded as much as we dared . 
Joyce and I got out through the stern port , and we made for shore again as fast as oars could take us . 
This second trip fairly aroused the watchers along shore . 
Lillibullero was dropped again and just before we lost sight of them behind the little point , one of them whipped ashore and disappeared . 
We had soon touched land in the same place as before and set to provision the block house . 
All three made the first journey , heavily laden , and tossed our stores over the palisade . 
Then , leaving Joyce to guard them one man , to be sure , but with half a dozen muskets Hunter and I returned to the jolly boat and loaded ourselves once more . 
That we should have risked a second boat load seems more daring than it really was . 
They had the advantage of numbers , of course , but we had the advantage of arms . 
The squire was waiting for me at the stern window , all his faintness gone from him . 
He caught the painter and made it fast , and we fell to loading the boat for our very lives . 
Pork , powder , and biscuit was the cargo , with only a musket and a cutlass apiece for the squire and me and Redruth and the captain . 
By this time the tide was beginning to ebb , and the ship was swinging round to her anchor . 
Redruth retreated from his place in the gallery and dropped into the boat , which we then brought round to the ship's counter , to be handier for Captain Smollett . 
Now , men , said he , do you hear me ? There was no answer from the forecastle . 
It's to you , Abraham Gray it's to you I am speaking . 
Gray , resumed Mr. Smollett , a little louder , I am leaving this ship , and I order you to follow your captain . 
I know you are a good man at bottom , and I dare say not one of the lot of you's as bad as he makes out . 
I have my watch here in my hand I give you thirty seconds to join me in . 
Come , my fine fellow , continued the captain don't hang so long in stays . 
I'm risking my life and the lives of these good gentlemen every second . 
I'm with you , sir , said he . 
And the next moment he and the captain had dropped aboard of us , and we had shoved off and given way . 
We were clear out of the ship , but not yet ashore in our stockade . 
Narrative Continued by the Doctor The Jolly boat's Last Trip THIS fifth trip was quite different from any of the others . 
In the first place , the little gallipot of a boat that we were in was gravely overloaded . 
Five grown men , and three of them Trelawney , Redruth , and the captain over six feet high , was already more than she was meant to carry . 
Add to that the powder , pork , and bread bags . 
The gunwale was lipping astern . 
Several times we shipped a little water , and my breeches and the tails of my coat were all soaking wet before we had gone a hundred yards . 
The captain made us trim the boat , and we got her to lie a little more evenly . 
All the same , we were afraid to breathe . 
If we let the current have its way we should come ashore beside the gigs , where the pirates might appear at any moment . 
I cannot keep her head for the stockade , sir , said I to the captain . 
I was steering , while he and Redruth , two fresh men , were at the oars . 
The tide keeps washing her down . 
Could you pull a little stronger ? Not without swamping the boat , said he . 
You must bear up , sir , if you please bear up until you see you're gaining . 
We'll never get ashore at this rate , said I. If it's the only course that we can lie , sir , we must even lie it , returned the captain . 
The current's less a'ready , sir , said the man Gray , who was sitting in the fore sheets you can ease her off a bit . 
Thank you , my man , said I , quite as if nothing had happened , for we had all quietly made up our minds to treat him like one of ourselves . 
Suddenly the captain spoke up again , and I thought his voice was a little changed . 
The gun ! said he . 
I have thought of that , said I , for I made sure he was thinking of a bombardment of the fort . 
They could never get the gun ashore , and if they did , they could never haul it through the woods . 
Look astern , doctor , replied the captain . 
Israel was Flint's gunner , said Gray hoarsely . 
At any risk , we put the boat's head direct for the landing place . 
But the worst of it was that with the course I now held we turned our broadside instead of our stern to the HISPANIOLA and offered a target like a barn door . 
I could hear as well as see that brandy faced rascal Israel Hands plumping down a round shot on the deck . 
Who's the best shot ? asked the captain . 
Mr. Trelawney , out and away , said I. Mr. Trelawney , will you please pick me off one of these men , sir ? Hands , if possible , said the captain . 
Trelawney was as cool as steel . 
He looked to the priming of his gun . 
Now , cried the captain , easy with that gun , sir , or you'll swamp the boat . 
All hands stand by to trim her when he aims . 
They had the gun , by this time , slewed round upon the swivel , and Hands , who was at the muzzle with the rammer , was in consequence the most exposed . 
However , we had no luck , for just as Trelawney fired , down he stooped , the ball whistled over him , and it was one of the other four who fell . 
Here come the gigs , sir , said I. Give way , then , cried the captain . 
We mustn't mind if we swamp her now . 
If we can't get ashore , all's up . 
Only one of the gigs is being manned , sir , I added the crew of the other most likely going round by shore to cut us off . 
They'll have a hot run , sir , returned the captain . 
Jack ashore , you know . 
It's not them I mind it's the round shot . 
Carpet bowls ! My lady's maid couldn't miss . 
Tell us , squire , when you see the match , and we'll hold water . 
In the meanwhile we had been making headway at a good pace for a boat so overloaded , and we had shipped but little water in the process . 
We were now close in thirty or forty strokes and we should beach her , for the ebb had already disclosed a narrow belt of sand below the clustering trees . 
The gig was no longer to be feared the little point had already concealed it from our eyes . 
The ebb tide , which had so cruelly delayed us , was now making reparation and delaying our assailants . 
The one source of danger was the gun . 
If I durst , said the captain , I'd stop and pick off another man . 
But it was plain that they meant nothing should delay their shot . 
They had never so much as looked at their fallen comrade , though he was not dead , and I could see him trying to crawl away . 
Ready ! cried the squire . 
Hold ! cried the captain , quick as an echo . 
And he and Redruth backed with a great heave that sent her stern bodily under water . 
The report fell in at the same instant of time . 
This was the first that Jim heard , the sound of the squire's shot not having reached him . 
At any rate , the boat sank by the stern , quite gently , in three feet of water , leaving the captain and myself , facing each other , on our feet . 
The other three took complete headers , and came up again drenched and bubbling . 
So far there was no great harm . 
No lives were lost , and we could wade ashore in safety . 
But there were all our stores at the bottom , and to make things worse , only two guns out of five remained in a state for service . 
Mine I had snatched from my knees and held over my head , by a sort of instinct . 
As for the captain , he had carried his over his shoulder by a bandoleer , and like a wise man , lock uppermost . 
The other three had gone down with the boat . 
With all this in our minds , we waded ashore as fast as we could , leaving behind us the poor jolly boat and a good half of all our powder and provisions . 
Soon we could hear their footfalls as they ran and the cracking of the branches as they breasted across a bit of thicket . 
I began to see we should have a brush for it in earnest and looked to my priming . 
Captain , said I , Trelawney is the dead shot . 
Give him your gun his own is useless . 
At the same time , observing Gray to be unarmed , I handed him my cutlass . 
It did all our hearts good to see him spit in his hand , knit his brows , and make the blade sing through the air . 
It was plain from every line of his body that our new hand was worth his salt . 
Forty paces farther we came to the edge of the wood and saw the stockade in front of us . 
They paused as if taken aback , and before they recovered , not only the squire and I , but Hunter and Joyce from the block house , had time to fire . 
After reloading , we walked down the outside of the palisade to see to the fallen enemy . 
He was stone dead shot through the heart . 
Both the squire and I returned the shot , but as we had nothing to aim at , it is probable we only wasted powder . 
Then we reloaded and turned our attention to poor Tom . 
The captain and Gray were already examining him , and I saw with half an eye that all was over . 
The squire dropped down beside him on his knees and kissed his hand , crying like a child . 
Be I going , doctor ? he asked . 
Tom , my man , said I , you're going home . 
I wish I had had a lick at them with the gun first , he replied . 
Tom , said the squire , say you forgive me , won't you ? Would that be respectful like , from me to you , squire ? was the answer . 
Howsoever , so be it , amen ! After a little while of silence , he said he thought somebody might read a prayer . 
It's the custom , sir , he added apologetically . 
And not long after , without another word , he passed away . 
Then , climbing on the roof , he had with his own hand bent and run up the colours . 
This seemed mightily to relieve him . 
He re entered the log house and set about counting up the stores as if nothing else existed . 
But he had an eye on Tom's passage for all that , and as soon as all was over , came forward with another flag and reverently spread it on the body . 
Don't you take on , sir , he said , shaking the squire's hand . 
All's well with him no fear for a hand that's been shot down in his duty to captain and owner . 
It mayn't be good divinity , but it's a fact . 
Then he pulled me aside . 
You can calculate for yourself , I said . 
How do you mean ? I asked . 
It's a pity , sir , we lost that second load . 
That's what I mean , replied the captain . 
As for powder and shot , we'll do . 
But the rations are short , very short so short , Dr . 
Livesey , that we're perhaps as well without that extra mouth . 
And he pointed to the dead body under the flag . 
Just then , with a roar and a whistle , a round shot passed high above the roof of the log house and plumped far beyond us in the wood . 
Oho ! said the captain . 
Blaze away ! You've little enough powder already , my lads . 
At the second trial , the aim was better , and the ball descended inside the stockade , scattering a cloud of sand but doing no further damage . 
Captain , said the squire , the house is quite invisible from the ship . 
It must be the flag they are aiming at . 
Would it not be wiser to take it in ? Strike my colours ! cried the captain . 
No , sir , not I and as soon as he had said the words , I think we all agreed with him . 
For it was not only a piece of stout , seamanly , good feeling it was good policy besides and showed our enemies that we despised their cannonade . 
All through the evening they kept thundering away . 
There is one good thing about all this , observed the captain the wood in front of us is likely clear . 
The ebb has made a good while our stores should be uncovered . 
Volunteers to go and bring in pork . 
Gray and hunter were the first to come forward . 
Well armed , they stole out of the stockade , but it proved a useless mission . 
The mutineers were bolder than we fancied or they put more trust in Israel's gunnery . 
Silver was in the stern sheets in command and every man of them was now provided with a musket from some secret magazine of their own . 
Thomas Redruth , owner's servant , landsman , shot by the mutineers James Hawkins , cabin boy And at the same time , I was wondering over poor Jim Hawkins' fate . 
A hail on the land side . 
Somebody hailing us , said Hunter , who was on guard . 
Doctor ! Squire ! Captain ! Hullo , Hunter , is that you ? came the cries . 
And I ran to the door in time to see Jim Hawkins , safe and sound , come climbing over the stockade . 
Narrative Resumed by Jim Hawkins The Garrison in the Stockade AS soon as Ben Gunn saw the colours he came to a halt , stopped me by the arm , and sat down . 
Now , said he , there's your friends , sure enough . 
Far more likely it's the mutineers , I answered . 
Why , in a place like this , where nobody puts in but gen'lemen of fortune , Silver would fly the Jolly Roger , you don't make no doubt of that . 
No , that's your friends . 
Ah , he was the man to have a headpiece , was Flint ! Barring rum , his match were never seen . 
He were afraid of none , not he on'y Silver Silver was that genteel . 
Well , said I , that may be so , and so be it all the more reason that I should hurry on and join my friends . 
Nay , mate , returned Ben , not you . 
You're a good boy , or I'm mistook but you're on'y a boy , all told . 
Now , Ben Gunn is fly . 
Rum wouldn't bring me there , where you're going not rum wouldn't , till I see your born gen'leman and gets it on his word of honour . 
, a precious sight more confidence' and then nips him . 
And he pinched me the third time with the same air of cleverness . 
And when Ben Gunn is wanted , you know where to find him , Jim . 
Just wheer you found him today . 
And him that comes is to have a white thing in his hand , and he's to come alone . 
Oh ! And you'll say this 'Ben Gunn , says you , 'has reasons of his own . 
Well , said I , I believe I understand . 
You have something to propose , and you wish to see the squire or the doctor , and you're to be found where I found you . 
Is that all ? And when ? says you , he added . 
Why , from about noon observation to about six bells . 
Good , said I , and now may I go ? You won't forget ? he inquired anxiously . 
Precious sight , and reasons of his own , says you . 
Reasons of his own that's the mainstay as between man and man . 
Well , then still holding me I reckon you can go , Jim . 
And , Jim , if you was to see Silver , you wouldn't go for to sell Ben Gunn ? Wild horses wouldn't draw it from you ? No , says you . 
The next moment each of us had taken to his heels in a different direction . 
For a good hour to come frequent reports shook the island , and balls kept crashing through the woods . 
I moved from hiding place to hiding place , always pursued , or so it seemed to me , by these terrifying missiles . 
The HISPANIOLA still lay where she had anchored but , sure enough , there was the Jolly Roger the black flag of piracy flying from her peak . 
Even as I looked , there came another red flash and another report that sent the echoes clattering , and one more round shot whistled through the air . 
It was the last of the cannonade . 
I lay for some time watching the bustle which succeeded the attack . 
Men were demolishing something with axes on the beach near the stockade the poor jolly boat , I afterwards discovered . 
But there was a sound in their voices which suggested rum . 
At length I thought I might return towards the stockade . 
Then I skirted among the woods until I had regained the rear , or shoreward side , of the stockade , and was soon warmly welcomed by the faithful party . 
I had soon told my story and began to look about me . 
The log house was made of unsquared trunks of pine roof , walls , and floor . 
The latter stood in several places as much as a foot or a foot and a half above the surface of the sand . 
The cold evening breeze , of which I have spoken , whistled through every chink of the rude building and sprinkled the floor with a continual rain of fine sand . 
If we had been allowed to sit idle , we should all have fallen in the blues , but Captain Smollett was never the man for that . 
All hands were called up before him , and he divided us into watches . 
The doctor and Gray and I for one the squire , Hunter , and Joyce upon the other . 
That man Smollett , he said once , is a better man than I am . 
And when I say that it means a deal , Jim . 
Another time he came and was silent for a while . 
Then he put his head on one side , and looked at me . 
Is this Ben Gunn a man ? he asked . 
I do not know , sir , said I. I am not very sure whether he's sane . 
If there's any doubt about the matter , he is , returned the doctor . 
A man who has been three years biting his nails on a desert island , Jim , can't expect to appear as sane as you or me . 
It doesn't lie in human nature . 
Was it cheese you said he had a fancy for ? Yes , sir , cheese , I answered . 
Well , Jim , says he , just see the good that comes of being dainty in your food . 
Well , that's for Ben Gunn ! Before supper was eaten we buried old Tom in the sand and stood round him for a while bare headed in the breeze . 
Then , when we had eaten our pork and each had a good stiff glass of brandy grog , the three chiefs got together in a corner to discuss our prospects . 
It appears they were at their wits' end what to do , the stores being so low that we must have been starved into surrender long before help came . 
But our best hope , it was decided , was to kill off the buccaneers until they either hauled down their flag or ran away with the HISPANIOLA . 
From nineteen they were already reduced to fifteen , two others were wounded , and one at least the man shot beside the gun severely wounded , if he were not dead . 
Every time we had a crack at them , we were to take it , saving our own lives , with the extremest care . 
And besides that , we had two able allies rum and the climate . 
So , he added , if we are not all shot down first they'll be glad to be packing in the schooner . 
It's always a ship , and they can get to buccaneering again , I suppose . 
First ship that ever I lost , said Captain Smollett . 
It was still quite early , and the coldest morning that I think I ever was abroad in a chill that pierced into the marrow . 
The sky was bright and cloudless overhead , and the tops of the trees shone rosily in the sun . 
The chill and the vapour taken together told a poor tale of the island . 
It was plainly a damp , feverish , unhealthy spot . 
Keep indoors , men , said the captain . 
Ten to one this is a trick . 
Then he hailed the buccaneer . 
Who goes ? Stand , or we fire . 
Flag of truce , cried Silver . 
The captain was in the porch , keeping himself carefully out of the way of a treacherous shot , should any be intended . 
He turned and spoke to us , Doctor's watch on the lookout . 
Livesey take the north side , if you please Jim , the east Gray , west . 
The watch below , all hands to load muskets . 
Lively , men , and careful . 
And then he turned again to the mutineers . 
And what do you want with your flag of truce ? he cried . 
This time it was the other man who replied . 
Cap'n Silver , sir , to come on board and make terms , he shouted . 
Cap'n Silver ! Don't know him . 
Who's he ? cried the captain . 
And we could hear him adding to himself , Cap'n , is it ? My heart , and here's promotion ! Long John answered for himself . 
These poor lads have chosen me cap'n , after your desertion , sir laying a particular emphasis upon the word desertion . 
We're willing to submit , if we can come to terms , and no bones about it . 
My man , said Captain Smollett , I have not the slightest desire to talk to you . 
If you wish to talk to me , you can come , that's all . 
If there's any treachery , it'll be on your side , and the Lord help you . 
That's enough , cap'n , shouted Long John cheerily . 
A word from you's enough . 
I know a gentleman , and you may lay to that . 
We could see the man who carried the flag of truce attempting to hold Silver back . 
Nor was that wonderful , seeing how cavalier had been the captain's answer . 
But Silver laughed at him aloud and slapped him on the back as if the idea of alarm had been absurd . 
He was whistling Come , Lasses and Lads . 
Silver had terrible hard work getting up the knoll . 
What with the steepness of the incline , the thick tree stumps , and the soft sand , he and his crutch were as helpless as a ship in stays . 
But he stuck to it like a man in silence , and at last arrived before the captain , whom he saluted in the handsomest style . 
Here you are , my man , said the captain , raising his head . 
You had better sit down . 
You ain't a going to let me inside , cap'n ? complained Long John . 
It's a main cold morning , to be sure , sir , to sit outside upon the sand . 
Why , Silver , said the captain , if you had pleased to be an honest man , you might have been sitting in your galley . 
A sweet pretty place you have of it here . 
Ah , there's Jim ! The top of the morning to you , Jim . 
Doctor , here's my service . 
Why , there you all are together like a happy family , in a manner of speaking . 
If you have anything to say , my man , better say it , said the captain . 
Right you were , Cap'n Smollett , replied Silver . 
Dooty is dooty , to be sure . 
Well now , you look here , that was a good lay of yours last night . 
I don't deny it was a good lay . 
Some of you pretty handy with a handspike end . 
And I'll not deny neither but what some of my people was shook maybe all was shook maybe I was shook myself maybe that's why I'm here for terms . 
But you mark me , cap'n , it won't do twice , by thunder ! We'll have to do sentry go and ease off a point or so on the rum . 
Maybe you think we were all a sheet in the wind's eye . 
But I'll tell you I was sober I was on'y dog tired and if I'd awoke a second sooner , I'd 'a caught you at the act , I would . 
He wasn't dead when I got round to him , not he . 
Well ? says Captain Smollett as cool as can be . 
All that Silver said was a riddle to him , but you would never have guessed it from his tone . 
As for me , I began to have an inkling . 
Ben Gunn's last words came back to my mind . 
Well , here it is , said Silver . 
We want that treasure , and we'll have it that's our point ! You would just as soon save your lives , I reckon and that's yours . 
You have a chart , haven't you ? That's as may be , replied the captain . 
Oh , well , you have , I know that , returned Long John . 
You needn't be so husky with a man there ain't a particle of service in that , and you may lay to it . 
What I mean is , we want your chart . 
Now , I never meant you no harm , myself . 
That won't do with me , my man , interrupted the captain . 
We know exactly what you meant to do , and we don't care , for now , you see , you can't do it . 
And the captain looked at him calmly and proceeded to fill a pipe . 
If Abe Gray Silver broke out . 
Avast there ! cried Mr. Smollett . 
Gray told me nothing , and I asked him nothing and what's more , I would see you and him and this whole island blown clean out of the water into blazes first . 
So there's my mind for you , my man , on that . 
This little whiff of temper seemed to cool Silver down . 
He had been growing nettled before , but now he pulled himself together . 
Like enough , said he . 
I would set no limits to what gentlemen might consider shipshape , or might not , as the case were . 
And seein' as how you are about to take a pipe , cap'n , I'll make so free as do likewise . 
It was as good as the play to see them . 
Now , resumed Silver , here it is . 
You give us the chart to get the treasure by , and drop shooting poor seamen and stoving of their heads in while asleep . 
You do that , and we'll offer you a choice . 
Or if that ain't to your fancy , some of my hands being rough and having old scores on account of hazing , then you can stay here , you can . 
Now , you'll own that's talking . 
Handsomer you couldn't look to get , now you . 
And I hope raising his voice that all hands in this here block house will overhaul my words , for what is spoke to one is spoke to all . 
Captain Smollett rose from his seat and knocked out the ashes of his pipe in the palm of his left hand . 
Is that all ? he asked . 
Every last word , by thunder ! answered John . 
Refuse that , and you've seen the last of me but musket balls . 
Very good , said the captain . 
If you'll come up one by one , unarmed , I'll engage to clap you all in irons and take you home to a fair trial in England . 
If you won't , my name is Alexander Smollett , I've flown my sovereign's colours , and I'll see you all to Davy Jones . 
You can't find the treasure . 
You can't sail the ship there's not a man among you fit to sail the ship . 
You can't fight us Gray , there , got away from five of you . 
Your ship's in irons , Master Silver you're on a lee shore , and so you'll find . 
Bundle out of this , please , hand over hand , and double quick . 
Silver's face was a picture his eyes started in his head with wrath . 
He shook the fire out of his pipe . 
Give me a hand up ! he cried . 
Not I , returned the captain . 
Who'll give me a hand up ? he roared . 
Not a man among us moved . 
Growling the foulest imprecations , he crawled along the sand till he got hold of the porch and could hoist himself again upon his crutch . 
Then he spat into the spring . 
That's what I think of ye . 
Before an hour's out , I'll stove in your old block house like a rum puncheon . 
Laugh , by thunder , laugh ! Before an hour's out , ye'll laugh upon the other side . 
Them that die'll be the lucky ones . 
It was the first time we had ever seen him angry . 
And then , as we all slunk back to our places , Gray , he said , I'll put your name in the log you've stood by your duty like a seaman . 
Mr. Trelawney , I'm surprised at you , sir . 
Doctor , I thought you had worn the king's coat ! If that was how you served at Fontenoy , sir , you'd have been better in your berth . 
The captain looked on for a while in silence . 
My lads , said he , I've given Silver a broadside . 
I pitched it in red hot on purpose and before the hour's out , as he said , we shall be boarded . 
We're outnumbered , I needn't tell you that , but we fight in shelter and a minute ago I should have said we fought with discipline . 
I've no manner of doubt that we can drub them , if you choose . 
Then he went the rounds and saw , as he said , that all was clear . 
In the middle , the cutlasses lay ranged . 
Toss out the fire , said the captain the chill is past , and we mustn't have smoke in our eyes . 
The iron fire basket was carried bodily out by Mr. Trelawney , and the embers smothered among sand . 
Hawkins hasn't had his breakfast . 
Hawkins , help yourself , and back to your post to eat it , continued Captain Smollett . 
Lively , now , my lad you'll want it before you've done . 
Hunter , serve out a round of brandy to all hands . 
And while this was going on , the captain completed , in his own mind , the plan of the defence . 
Doctor , you will take the door , he resumed . 
See , and don't expose yourself keep within , and fire through the porch . 
Hunter , take the east side , there . 
Joyce , you stand by the west , my man . 
Mr. Trelawney , you are the best shot you and Gray will take this long north side , with the five loopholes it's there the danger is . 
If they can get up to it and fire in upon us through our own ports , things would begin to look dirty . 
Hawkins , neither you nor I are much account at the shooting we'll stand by to load and bear a hand . 
As the captain had said , the chill was past . 
As soon as the sun had climbed above our girdle of trees , it fell with all its force upon the clearing and drank up the vapours at a draught . 
Soon the sane was baking and the resin melting in the logs of the block house . 
Hang them ! said the captain . 
This is as dull as the doldrums . 
Gray , whistle for a wind . 
And just at that moment came the first news of the attack . 
If you please , sir , said Joyce , if I see anyone , am I to fire ? I told you so ! cried the captain . 
Thank you , sir , returned Joyce with the same quiet civility . 
So some seconds passed , till suddenly Joyce whipped up his musket and fired . 
Not a bough waved , not the gleam of a musket barrel betrayed the presence of our foes . 
Did you hit your man ? asked the captain . 
No , sir , replied Joyce . 
I believe not , sir . 
Next best thing to tell the truth , muttered Captain Smollett . 
Load his gun , Hawkins . 
How many should say there were on your side , doctor ? I know precisely , said Dr . 
Three shots were fired on this side . 
I saw the three flashes two close together one farther to the west . 
Three ! repeated the captain . 
And how many on yours , Mr. Trelawney ? But this was not so easily answered . 
There had come many from the north seven by the squire's computation , eight or nine according to Gray . 
From the east and west only a single shot had been fired . 
It was plain , therefore , that the attack would be developed from the north and that on the other three sides we were only to be annoyed by a show of hostilities . 
But Captain Smollett made no change in his arrangements . 
If the mutineers succeeded in crossing the stockade , he argued , they would take possession of any unprotected loophole and shoot us down like rats in our own stronghold . 
Nor had we much time left to us for thought . 
Suddenly , with a loud huzza , a little cloud of pirates leaped from the woods on the north side and ran straight on the stockade . 
At the same moment , the fire was once more opened from the woods , and a rifle ball sang through the doorway and knocked the doctor's musket into bits . 
The boarders swarmed over the fence like monkeys . 
Squire and Gray fired again and yet again three men fell , one forwards into the enclosure , two back on the outside . 
But of these , one was evidently more frightened than hurt , for he was on his feet again in a crack and instantly disappeared among the trees . 
The four who had boarded made straight before them for the building , shouting as they ran , and the men among the trees shouted back to encourage them . 
Several shots were fired , but such was the hurry of the marksmen that not one appears to have taken effect . 
In a moment , the four pirates had swarmed up the mound and were upon us . 
The head of Job Anderson , the boatswain , appeared at the middle loophole . 
At 'em , all hands all hands ! he roared in a voice of thunder . 
Meanwhile a third , running unharmed all around the house , appeared suddenly in the doorway and fell with his cutlass on the doctor . 
Our position was utterly reversed . 
A moment since we were firing , under cover , at an exposed enemy now it was we who lay uncovered and could not return a blow . 
The log house was full of smoke , to which we owed our comparative safety . 
Cries and confusion , the flashes and reports of pistol shots , and one loud groan rang in my ears . 
Out , lads , out , and fight 'em in the open ! Cutlasses ! cried the captain . 
I snatched a cutlass from the pile , and someone , at the same time snatching another , gave me a cut across the knuckles which I hardly felt . 
I dashed out of the door into the clear sunlight . 
Someone was close behind , I knew not whom . 
Round the house , lads ! Round the house ! cried the captain and even in the hurly burly , I perceived a change in his voice . 
Mechanically , I obeyed , turned eastwards , and with my cutlass raised , ran round the corner of the house . 
Next moment I was face to face with Anderson . 
He roared aloud , and his hanger went up above his head , flashing in the sunlight . 
When I had first sallied from the door , the other mutineers had been already swarming up the palisade to make an end of us . 
One man , in a red night cap , with his cutlass in his mouth , had even got upon the top and thrown a leg across . 
And yet , in this breath of time , the fight was over and the victory was ours . 
Gray , following close behind me , had cut down the big boatswain ere he had time to recover from his last blow . 
Another had been shot at a loophole in the very act of firing into the house and now lay in agony , the pistol still smoking in his hand . 
A third , as I had seen , the doctor had disposed of at a blow . 
Fire fire from the house ! cried the doctor . 
And you , lads , back into cover . 
But his words were unheeded , no shot was fired , and the last boarder made good his escape and disappeared with the rest into the wood . 
In three seconds nothing remained of the attacking party but the five who had fallen , four on the inside and one on the outside of the palisade . 
The doctor and Gray and I ran full speed for shelter . 
The survivors would soon be back where they had left their muskets , and at any moment the fire might recommence . 
The house was by this time somewhat cleared of smoke , and we saw at a glance the price we had paid for victory . 
The captain's wounded , said Mr. Trelawney . 
Have they run ? asked Mr. Smollett . 
All that could , you may be bound , returned the doctor but there's five of them will never run again . 
Five ! cried the captain . 
Five against three leaves us four to nine . 
That's better odds than we had at starting . 
We were seven to nineteen then , or thought we were , and that's as bad to bear . 
The mutineers were soon only eight in number , for the man shot by Mr. Trelawney on board the schooner died that same evening of his wound . 
But this was , of course , not known till after by the faithful party . 
PART FIVE My Sea Adventure How My Sea Adventure Began THERE was no return of the mutineers not so much as another shot out of the woods . 
They had got their rations for that day , as the captain put it , and we had the place to ourselves and a quiet time to overhaul the wounded and get dinner . 
As for the captain , his wounds were grievous indeed , but not dangerous . 
No organ was fatally injured . 
My own accidental cut across the knuckles was a flea bite . 
Doctor Livesey patched it up with plaster and pulled my ears for me into the bargain . 
Why , in the name of Davy Jones , said he , is Dr . 
Livesey mad ? Why no , says I. He's about the last of this crew for that , I take it . 
Well , shipmate , said Gray , mad he may not be but if HE'S not , you mark my words , I am . 
I take it , replied I , the doctor has his idea and if I am right , he's going now to see Ben Gunn . 
These biscuits , should anything befall me , would keep me , at least , from starving till far on in the next day . 
The next thing I laid hold of was a brace of pistols , and as I already had a powder horn and bullets , I felt myself well supplied with arms . 
As for the scheme I had in my head , it was not a bad one in itself . 
But I was only a boy , and I had made my mind up . 
Well , as things at last fell out , I found an admirable opportunity . 
It was already late in the afternoon , although still warm and sunny . 
I have never seen the sea quiet round Treasure Island . 
Behind me was the sea , in front the anchorage . 
The HISPANIOLA , in that unbroken mirror , was exactly portrayed from the truck to the waterline , the Jolly Roger hanging from her peak . 
Apparently they were talking and laughing , though at that distance upwards of a mile I could , of course , hear no word of what was said . 
Soon after , the jolly boat shoved off and pulled for shore , and the man with the red cap and his comrade went below by the cabin companion . 
Just about the same time , the sun had gone down behind the Spy glass , and as the fog was collecting rapidly , it began to grow dark in earnest . 
I saw I must lose no time if I were to find the boat that evening . 
Night had almost come when I laid my hand on its rough sides . 
The thing was extremely small , even for me , and I can hardly imagine that it could have floated with a full sized man . 
There was one thwart set as low as possible , a kind of stretcher in the bows , and a double paddle for propulsion . 
But the great advantage of the coracle it certainly possessed , for it was exceedingly light and portable . 
This was to slip out under cover of the night , cut the HISPANIOLA adrift , and let her go ashore where she fancied . 
Down I sat to wait for darkness , and made a hearty meal of biscuit . 
It was a night out of ten thousand for my purpose . 
The fog had now buried all heaven . 
As the last rays of daylight dwindled and disappeared , absolute blackness settled down on Treasure Island . 
One was the great fire on shore , by which the defeated pirates lay carousing in the swamp . 
The other , a mere blur of light upon the darkness , indicated the position of the anchored ship . 
Do as you pleased , she always made more leeway than anything else , and turning round and round was the manoeuvre she was best at . 
Even Ben Gunn himself has admitted that she was queer to handle till you knew her way . 
Certainly I did not know her way . 
By good fortune , paddle as I pleased , the tide was still sweeping me down and there lay the HISPANIOLA right in the fairway , hardly to be missed . 
, I was alongside of her hawser and had laid hold . 
The hawser was as taut as a bowstring , and the current so strong she pulled upon her anchor . 
All round the hull , in the blackness , the rippling current bubbled and chattered like a little mountain stream . 
One cut with my sea gully and the HISPANIOLA would go humming down the tide . 
So far so good , but it next occurred to my recollection that a taut hawser , suddenly cut , is a thing as dangerous as a kicking horse . 
Ten to one , if I were so foolhardy as to cut the HISPANIOLA from her anchor , I and the coracle would be knocked clean out of the water . 
This brought me to a full stop , and if fortune had not again particularly favoured me , I should have had to abandon my design . 
But the light airs which had begun blowing from the south east and south had hauled round after nightfall into the south west . 
With that I made my mind up , took out my gully , opened it with my teeth , and cut one strand after another , till the vessel swung only by two . 
Then I lay quiet , waiting to sever these last when the strain should be once more lightened by a breath of wind . 
Now , however , when I had nothing else to do , I began to pay more heed . 
One I recognized for the coxswain's , Israel Hands , that had been Flint's gunner in former days . 
The other was , of course , my friend of the red night cap . 
But they were not only tipsy it was plain that they were furiously angry . 
Oaths flew like hailstones , and every now and then there came forth such an explosion as I thought was sure to end in blows . 
But each time the quarrel passed off and the voices grumbled lower for a while , until the next crisis came and in its turn passed away without result . 
On shore , I could see the glow of the great camp fire burning warmly through the shore side trees . 
I had heard it on the voyage more than once and remembered these words But one man of her crew alive , What put to sea with seventy five . 
And I thought it was a ditty rather too dolefully appropriate for a company that had met such cruel losses in the morning . 
But , indeed , from what I saw , all these buccaneers were as callous as the sea they sailed on . 
The breeze had but little action on the coracle , and I was almost instantly swept against the bows of the HISPANIOLA . 
At the same time , the schooner began to turn upon her heel , spinning slowly , end for end , across the current . 
I wrought like a fiend , for I expected every moment to be swamped and since I found I could not push the coracle directly off , I now shoved straight astern . 
Why I should have done so I can hardly say . 
By this time the schooner and her little consort were gliding pretty swiftly through the water indeed , we had already fetched up level with the camp fire . 
One glance , however , was sufficient and it was only one glance that I durst take from that unsteady skiff . 
It showed me Hands and his companion locked together in deadly wrestle , each with a hand upon the other's throat . 
I dropped upon the thwart again , none too soon , for I was near overboard . 
At the same moment , she yawed sharply and seemed to change her course . 
The speed in the meantime had strangely increased . 
I opened my eyes at once . 
All round me were little ripples , combing over with a sharp , bristling sound and slightly phosphorescent . 
I glanced over my shoulder , and my heart jumped against my ribs . 
There , right behind me , was the glow of the camp fire . 
I lay down flat in the bottom of that wretched skiff and devoutly recommended my spirit to its Maker . 
The Cruise of the Coracle IT was broad day when I awoke and found myself tossing at the south west end of Treasure Island . 
The sun was up but was still hid from me behind the great bulk of the Spy glass , which on this side descended almost to the sea in formidable cliffs . 
I was scarce a quarter of a mile to seaward , and it was my first thought to paddle in and land . 
That notion was soon given over . 
I have understood since that they were sea lions , and entirely harmless . 
But the look of them , added to the difficulty of the shore and the high running of the surf , was more than enough to disgust me of that landing place . 
I felt willing rather to starve at sea than to confront such perils . 
In the meantime I had a better chance , as I supposed , before me . 
North of Haulbowline Head , the land runs in a long way , leaving at low tide a long stretch of yellow sand . 
There was a great , smooth swell upon the sea . 
The wind blowing steady and gentle from the south , there was no contrariety between that and the current , and the billows rose and fell unbroken . 
Had it been otherwise , I must long ago have perished but as it was , it is surprising how easily and securely my little and light boat could ride . 
I began after a little to grow very bold and sat up to try my skill at paddling . 
But even a small change in the disposition of the weight will produce violent changes in the behaviour of a coracle . 
No sooner thought upon than done . 
There I lay on my elbows in the most trying attitude , and every now and again gave a weak stroke or two to turn her head to shore . 
I was , indeed , close in . 
I could see the cool green tree tops swaying together in the breeze , and I felt sure I should make the next promontory without fail . 
It was high time , for I now began to be tortured with thirst . 
Right in front of me , not half a mile away , I beheld the HISPANIOLA under sail . 
The HISPANIOLA was under her main sail and two jibs , and the beautiful white canvas shone in the sun like snow or silver . 
Presently she began to fetch more and more to the westward , so that I thought they had sighted me and were going about in chase . 
At last , however , she fell right into the wind's eye , was taken dead aback , and stood there awhile helpless , with her sails shivering . 
Clumsy fellows , said I they must still be drunk as owls . 
And I thought how Captain Smollett would have set them skipping . 
Meanwhile the schooner gradually fell off and filled again upon another tack , sailed swiftly for a minute or so , and brought up once more dead in the wind's eye . 
Again and again was this repeated . 
It became plain to me that nobody was steering . 
The current was bearing coracle and schooner southward at an equal rate . 
If only I dared to sit up and paddle , I made sure that I could overhaul her . 
The scheme had an air of adventure that inspired me , and the thought of the water breaker beside the fore companion doubled my growing courage . 
I was now gaining rapidly on the schooner I could see the brass glisten on the tiller as it banged about , and still no soul appeared upon her decks . 
I could not choose but suppose she was deserted . 
If not , the men were lying drunk below , where I might batten them down , perhaps , and do what I chose with the ship . 
For some time she had been doing the worse thing possible for me standing still . 
She headed nearly due south , yawing , of course , all the time . 
Each time she fell off , her sails partly filled , and these brought her in a moment right to the wind again . 
But now , at last , I had my chance . 
The main sail hung drooped like a banner . 
She was stock still but for the current . 
For the last little while I had even lost , but now redoubling my efforts , I began once more to overhaul the chase . 
I was not a hundred yards from her when the wind came again in a clap she filled on the port tack and was off again , stooping and skimming like a swallow . 
My first impulse was one of despair , but my second was towards joy . 
Round she came , till she was broadside on to me round still till she had covered a half and then two thirds and then three quarters of the distance that separated us . 
I could see the waves boiling white under her forefoot . 
Immensely tall she looked to me from my low station in the coracle . 
And then , of a sudden , I began to comprehend . 
I had scarce time to think scarce time to act and save myself . 
I was on the summit of one swell when the schooner came stooping over the next . 
The bowsprit was over my head . 
I sprang to my feet and leaped , stamping the coracle under water . 
I Strike the Jolly Roger I HAD scarce gained a position on the bowsprit when the flying jib flapped and filled upon the other tack , with a report like a gun . 
The schooner trembled to her keel under the reverse , but next moment , the other sails still drawing , the jib flapped back again and hung idle . 
This had nearly tossed me off into the sea and now I lost no time , crawled back along the bowsprit , and tumbled head foremost on the deck . 
I was on the lee side of the forecastle , and the main sail , which was still drawing , concealed from me a certain portion of the after deck . 
Not a soul was to be seen . 
Suddenly the HISPANIOLA came right into the wind . 
The moan , which told of pain and deadly weakness , and the way in which his jaw hung open went right to my heart . 
But when I remembered the talk I had overheard from the apple barrel , all pity left me . 
I walked aft until I reached the main mast . 
Come aboard , Mr. Hands , I said ironically . 
He rolled his eyes round heavily , but he was too far gone to express surprise . 
All he could do was to utter one word , Brandy . 
It was such a scene of confusion as you can hardly fancy . 
All the lockfast places had been broken open in quest of the chart . 
The floor was thick with mud where ruffians had sat down to drink or consult after wading in the marshes round their camp . 
The bulkheads , all painted in clear white and beaded round with gilt , bore a pattern of dirty hands . 
Dozens of empty bottles clinked together in corners to the rolling of the ship . 
One of the doctor's medical books lay open on the table , half of the leaves gutted out , I suppose , for pipelights . 
In the midst of all this the lamp still cast a smoky glow , obscure and brown as umber . 
I went into the cellar all the barrels were gone , and of the bottles a most surprising number had been drunk out and thrown away . 
Certainly , since the mutiny began , not a man of them could ever have been sober . 
He must have drunk a gill before he took the bottle from his mouth . 
Aye , said he , by thunder , but I wanted some o' that ! I had sat down already in my own corner and begun to eat . 
Much hurt ? I asked him . 
He grunted , or rather , I might say , he barked . 
As for that swab , he's good and dead , he is , he added , indicating the man with the red cap . 
He warn't no seaman anyhow . 
He looked at me sourly enough but said nothing . 
Some of the colour had come back into his cheeks , though he still looked very sick and still continued to slip out and settle down as the ship banged about . 
By the by , I continued , I can't have these colours , Mr. Hands and by your leave , I'll strike 'em . 
And again dodging the boom , I ran to the colour lines , handed down their cursed black flag , and chucked it overboard . 
God save the king ! said I , waving my cap . 
And there's an end to Captain Silver ! He watched me keenly and slyly , his chin all the while on his breast . 
I reckon , he said at last , I reckon , Cap'n Hawkins , you'll kind of want to get ashore now . 
Why , yes , says I , with all my heart , Mr. Hands . 
And I went back to my meal with a good appetite . 
Well , HE'S dead now , he is as dead as bilge and who's to sail this ship , I don't see . 
Without I gives you a hint , you ain't that man , as far's I can tell . 
I'll tell you one thing , says I I'm not going back to Captain Kidd's anchorage . 
I mean to get into North Inlet and beach her quietly there . 
To be sure you did , he cried . 
Why , I ain't sich an infernal lubber after all . 
I can see , can't I ? I've tried my fling , I have , and I've lost , and it's you has the wind of me . 
North Inlet ? Why , I haven't no ch'ice , not I ! I'd help you sail her up to Execution Dock , by thunder ! So I would . 
Well , as it seemed to me , there was some sense in this . 
We struck our bargain on the spot . 
Then I lashed the tiller and went below to my own chest , where I got a soft silk handkerchief of my mother's . 
The breeze served us admirably . 
We skimmed before it like a bird , the coast of the island flashing by and the view changing every minute . 
I was greatly elated with my new command , and pleased with the bright , sunshiny weather and these different prospects of the coast . 
Israel Hands THE wind , serving us to a desire , now hauled into the west . 
We could run so much the easier from the north east corner of the island to the mouth of the North Inlet . 
Only , as we had no power to anchor and dared not beach her till the tide had flowed a good deal farther , time hung on our hands . 
The coxswain told me how to lay the ship to after a good many trials I succeeded , and we both sat in silence over another meal . 
Cap'n , said he at length with that same uncomfortable smile , here's my old shipmate , O'Brien s'pose you was to heave him overboard . 
There's a power of men been killed in this HISPANIOLA a sight o' poor seamen dead and gone since you and me took ship to Bristol . 
O'Brien there is in another world , and may be watching us . 
Well , that's unfort'nate appears as if killing parties was a waste of time . 
Howsomever , sperrits don't reckon for much , by what I've seen . 
I'll chance it with the sperrits , Jim . 
Now , the coxswain's hesitation seemed to be unnatural , and as for the notion of his preferring wine to brandy , I entirely disbelieved it . 
The whole story was a pretext . 
He wanted me to leave the deck so much was plain but with what purpose I could in no way imagine . 
His eyes never met mine they kept wandering to and fro , up and down , now with a look to the sky , now with a flitting glance upon the dead O'Brien . 
All the time he kept smiling and putting his tongue out in the most guilty , embarrassed manner , so that a child could have told that he was bent on some deception . 
I was prompt with my answer , however , for I saw where my advantage lay and that with a fellow so densely stupid I could easily conceal my suspicions to the end . 
Some wine ? I said . 
I'll bring you port , Mr. Hands . 
But I'll have to dig for it . 
I knew he would not expect to see me there , yet I took every precaution possible , and certainly the worst of my suspicions proved too true . 
This was all that I required to know . 
Yet I felt sure that I could trust him in one point , since in that our interests jumped together , and that was in the disposition of the schooner . 
While I was thus turning the business over in my mind , I had not been idle with my body . 
Hands lay as I had left him , all fallen together in a bundle and with his eyelids lowered as though he were too weak to bear the light . 
Cut me a junk o' that , says he , for I haven't no knife and hardly strength enough , so be as I had . 
Well , said I , I'll cut you some tobacco , but if I was you and thought myself so badly , I would go to my prayers like a Christian man . 
Now , you tell me why . 
You were asking me just now about the dead . 
I spoke with a little heat , thinking of the bloody dirk he had hidden in his pocket and designed , in his ill thoughts , to end me with . 
He , for his part , took a great draught of the wine and spoke with the most unusual solemnity . 
Well , now I tell you , I never seen good come o' goodness yet . 
Him as strikes first is my fancy dead men don't bite them's my views amen , so be it . 
And now , you look here , he added , suddenly changing his tone , we've had about enough of this foolery . 
The tide's made good enough by now . 
You just take my orders , Cap'n Hawkins , and we'll sail slap in and be done with it . 
Scarcely had we passed the heads before the land closed around us . 
Right before us , at the southern end , we saw the wreck of a ship in the last stages of dilapidation . 
It was a sad sight , but it showed us that the anchorage was calm . 
Now , said Hands , look there there's a pet bit for to beach a ship in . 
Fine flat sand , never a cat's paw , trees all around of it , and flowers a blowing like a garding on that old ship . 
Come high water , all hands take a pull upon the line , and off she comes as sweet as natur' . 
And now , boy , you stand by . 
We're near the bit now , and she's too much way on her . 
The excitement of these last manoeuvres had somewhat interfered with the watch I had kept hitherto , sharply enough , upon the coxswain . 
I might have fallen without a struggle for my life had not a sudden disquietude seized upon me and made me turn my head . 
We must both have cried out aloud when our eyes met , but while mine was the shrill cry of terror , his was a roar of fury like a charging bully's . 
At the same instant , he threw himself forward and I leapt sideways towards the bows . 
Before he could recover , I was safe out of the corner where he had me trapped , with all the deck to dodge about . 
The hammer fell , but there followed neither flash nor sound the priming was useless with sea water . 
I cursed myself for my neglect . 
Why had not I , long before , reprimed and reloaded my only weapons ? Then I should not have been as now , a mere fleeing sheep before this butcher . 
I had no time to try my other pistol , nor indeed much inclination , for I was sure it would be useless . 
Once so caught , and nine or ten inches of the blood stained dirk would be my last experience on this side of eternity . 
I placed my palms against the main mast , which was of a goodish bigness , and waited , every nerve upon the stretch . 
Seeing that I meant to dodge , he also paused and a moment or two passed in feints on his part and corresponding movements upon mine . 
Still , as I say , it was a boy's game , and I thought I could hold my own at it against an elderly seaman with a wounded thigh . 
So near were we , indeed , that my head came against the coxswain's foot with a crack that made my teeth rattle . 
Blow and all , I was the first afoot again , for Hands had got involved with the dead body . 
Quick as thought , I sprang into the mizzen shrouds , rattled up hand over hand , and did not draw a breath till I was seated on the cross trees . 
Then , with a pistol in either hand , I addressed him . 
One more step , Mr. Hands , said I , and I'll blow your brains out ! Dead men don't bite , you know , I added with a chuckle . 
At last , with a swallow or two , he spoke , his face still wearing the same expression of extreme perplexity . 
In order to speak he had to take the dagger from his mouth , but in all else he remained unmoved . 
Jim , says he , I reckon we're fouled , you and me , and we'll have to sign articles . 
Something sang like an arrow through the air I felt a blow and then a sharp pang , and there I was pinned by the shoulder to the mast . 
They did not fall alone with a choked cry , the coxswain loosed his grasp upon the shrouds and plunged head first into the water . 
Hands , who was not so far up , was in consequence nearer to the ship and fell between me and the bulwarks . 
He rose once to the surface in a lather of foam and blood and then sank again for good . 
As the water settled , I could see him lying huddled together on the clean , bright sand in the shadow of the vessel's sides . 
A fish or two whipped past his body . 
Sometimes , by the quivering of the water , he appeared to move a little , as if he were trying to rise . 
But he was dead enough , for all that , being both shot and drowned , and was food for fish in the very place where he had designed my slaughter . 
I was no sooner certain of this than I began to feel sick , faint , and terrified . 
The hot blood was running over my back and chest . 
I clung with both hands till my nails ached , and I shut my eyes as if to cover up the peril . 
Gradually my mind came back again , my pulses quieted down to a more natural time , and I was once more in possession of myself . 
It was my first thought to pluck forth the dirk , but either it stuck too hard or my nerve failed me , and I desisted with a violent shudder . 
Oddly enough , that very shudder did the business . 
The knife , in fact , had come the nearest in the world to missing me altogether it held me by a mere pinch of skin , and this the shudder tore away . 
The blood ran down the faster , to be sure , but I was my own master again and only tacked to the mast by my coat and shirt . 
These last I broke through with a sudden jerk , and then regained the deck by the starboard shrouds . 
For nothing in the world would I have again ventured , shaken as I was , upon the overhanging port shrouds from which Israel had so lately fallen . 
O'Brien , though still quite a young man , was very bald . 
There he lay , with that bald head across the knees of the man who had killed him and the quick fishes steering to and fro over both . 
I was now alone upon the ship the tide had just turned . 
I began to see a danger to the ship . 
The jibs I speedily doused and brought tumbling to the deck , but the main sail was a harder matter . 
Of course , when the schooner canted over , the boom had swung out board , and the cap of it and a foot or two of sail hung even under water . 
I thought this made it still more dangerous yet the strain was so heavy that I half feared to meddle . 
At last I got my knife and cut the halyards . 
For the rest , the HISPANIOLA must trust to luck , like myself . 
It began to be chill the tide was rapidly fleeting seaward , the schooner settling more and more on her beam ends . 
I scrambled forward and looked over . 
It seemed shallow enough , and holding the cut hawser in both hands for a last security , I let myself drop softly overboard . 
About the same time , the sun went fairly down and the breeze whistled low in the dusk among the tossing pines . 
At least , and at last , I was off the sea , nor had I returned thence empty handed . 
There lay the schooner , clear at last from buccaneers and ready for our own men to board and get to sea again . 
I had nothing nearer my fancy than to get home to the stockade and boast of my achievements . 
So thinking , and in famous spirits , I began to set my face homeward for the block house and my companions . 
This brought me near to where I had encountered Ben Gunn , the maroon and I walked more circumspectly , keeping an eye on every side . 
And yet I wondered , in my heart , that he should show himself so careless . 
Suddenly a kind of brightness fell about me . 
With this to help me , I passed rapidly over what remained to me of my journey , and sometimes walking , sometimes running , impatiently drew near to the stockade . 
Yet , as I began to thread the grove that lies before it , I was not so thoughtless but that I slacked my pace and went a trifle warily . 
It would have been a poor end of my adventures to get shot down by my own party in mistake . 
It was red and hot , and now and again it was a little darkened as it were , the embers of a bonfire smouldering . 
For the life of me I could not think what it might be . 
At last I came right down upon the borders of the clearing . 
The western end was already steeped in moon shine the rest , and the block house itself , still lay in a black shadow chequered with long silvery streaks of light . 
On the other side of the house an immense fire had burned itself into clear embers and shed a steady , red reverberation , contrasted strongly with the mellow paleness of the moon . 
There was not a soul stirring nor a sound beside the noises of the breeze . 
I stopped , with much wonder in my heart , and perhaps a little terror also . 
I stole round by the eastern end , keeping close in shadow , and at a convenient place , where the darkness was thickest , crossed the palisade . 
To make assurance surer , I got upon my hands and knees and crawled , without a sound , towards the corner of the house . 
As I drew nearer , my heart was suddenly and greatly lightened . 
The sea cry of the watch , that beautiful All's well , never fell more reassuringly on my ear . 
In the meantime , there was no doubt of one thing they kept an infamous bad watch . 
If it had been Silver and his lads that were now creeping in on them , not a soul would have seen daybreak . 
That was what it was , thought I , to have the captain wounded and again I blamed myself sharply for leaving them in that danger with so few to mount guard . 
By this time I had got to the door and stood up . 
All was dark within , so that I could distinguish nothing by the eye . 
As for sounds , there was the steady drone of the snorers and a small occasional noise , a flickering or pecking that I could in no way account for . 
With my arms before me I walked steadily in . 
and enjoy their faces when they found me in the morning . 
My foot struck something yielding it was a sleeper's leg and he turned and groaned , but without awaking . 
I had no time left me to recover . 
Bring a torch , Dick , said Silver when my capture was thus assured . 
And one of the men left the log house and presently returned with a lighted brand . 
PART SIX Captain Silver In the Enemy's Camp THE red glare of the torch , lighting up the interior of the block house , showed me the worst of my apprehensions realized . 
I could only judge that all had perished , and my heart smote me sorely that I had not been there to perish with them . 
There were six of the buccaneers , all told not another man was left alive . 
Five of them were on their feet , flushed and swollen , suddenly called out of the first sleep of drunkenness . 
I remembered the man who had been shot and had run back among the woods in the great attack , and doubted not that this was he . 
The parrot sat , preening her plumage , on Long John's shoulder . 
He himself , I thought , looked somewhat paler and more stern than I was used to . 
So , said he , here's Jim Hawkins , shiver my timbers ! Dropped in , like , eh ? Well , come , I take that friendly . 
And thereupon he sat down across the brandy cask and began to fill a pipe . 
And so , Jim stopping the tobacco here you were , and quite a pleasant surprise for poor old John . 
I see you were smart when first I set my eyes on you , but this here gets away from me clean , it do . 
To all this , as may be well supposed , I made no answer . 
Silver took a whiff or two of his pipe with great composure and then ran on again . 
Now , you see , Jim , so be as you ARE here , says he , I'll give you a piece of my mind . 
I've always liked you , I have , for a lad of spirit , and the picter of my own self when I was young and handsome . 
I always wanted you to jine and take your share , and die a gentleman , and now , my cock , you've got to . 
Cap'n Smollett's a fine seaman , as I'll own up to any day , but stiff on discipline . 
'Dooty is dooty , says he , and right he is . 
Just you keep clear of the cap'n . 
I don't say nothing as to your being in our hands , continued Silver , though there you are , and you may lay to it . 
I'm all for argyment I never seen good come out o' threatening . 
Through all this sneering talk , I was made to feel the threat of death that overhung me , and my cheeks burned and my heart beat painfully in my breast . 
Lad , said Silver , no one's a pressing of you . 
None of us won't hurry you , mate time goes so pleasant in your company , you see . 
Wot's wot ? repeated one of the buccaneers in a deep growl . 
Ah , he'd be a lucky one as knowed that ! You'll perhaps batten down your hatches till you're spoke to , my friend , cried Silver truculently to this speaker . 
Says he , 'Cap'n Silver , you're sold out . 
Well , maybe we'd been taking a glass , and a song to help it round . 
Leastways , none of us had looked out . 
'Well , says the doctor , 'let's bargain . 
As for them , they've tramped I don't know where's they are . 
He drew again quietly at his pipe . 
As for that boy , I don't know where he is , confound him , says he , 'nor I don't much care . 
We're about sick of him . 
Is that all ? I asked . 
Well , it's all that you're to hear , my son , returned Silver . 
And now I am to choose ? And now you are to choose , and you may lay to that , said Silver . 
Well , said I , I am not such a fool but I know pretty well what I have to look for . 
Let the worst come to the worst , it's little I care . 
I've seen too many die since I fell in with you . 
The laugh's on my side I've had the top of this business from the first I no more fear you than I fear a fly . 
Kill me , if you please , or spare me . 
It is for you to choose . 
Kill another and do yourselves no good , or spare me and keep a witness to save you from the gallows . 
I'll put one to that , cried the old mahogany faced seaman Morgan by name whom I had seen in Long John's public house upon the quays of Bristol . 
It was him that knowed Black Dog . 
Well , and see here , added the sea cook . 
I'll put another again to that , by thunder ! For it was this same boy that faked the chart from Billy Bones . 
First and last , we've split upon Jim Hawkins ! Then here goes ! said Morgan with an oath . 
And he sprang up , drawing his knife as if he had been twenty . 
Avast , there ! cried Silver . 
Who are you , Tom Morgan ? Maybe you thought you was cap'n here , perhaps . 
There's never a man looked me between the eyes and seen a good day a'terwards , Tom Morgan , you may lay to that . 
Morgan paused , but a hoarse murmur rose from the others . 
Tom's right , said one . 
I stood hazing long enough from one , added another . 
I'll be hanged if I'll be hazed by you , John Silver . 
Put a name on what you're at you ain't dumb , I reckon . 
Him that wants shall get it . 
Take a cutlass , him that dares , and I'll see the colour of his inside , crutch and all , before that pipe's empty . 
Not a man stirred not a man answered . 
That's your sort , is it ? he added , returning his pipe to his mouth . 
Well , you're a gay lot to look at , anyway . 
Not much worth to fight , you ain't . 
P'r'aps you can understand King George's English . 
I'm cap'n here by 'lection . 
I'm cap'n here because I'm the best man by a long sea mile . 
There was a long pause after this . 
I stood straight up against the wall , my heart still going like a sledge hammer , but with a ray of hope now shining in my bosom . 
You seem to have a lot to say , remarked Silver , spitting far into the air . 
Pipe up and let me hear it , or lay to . 
Ax your pardon , sir , returned one of the men you're pretty free with some of the rules maybe you'll kindly keep an eye upon the rest . 
I ax your pardon , sir , acknowledging you for to be captaing at this present but I claim my right , and steps outside for a council . 
One after another the rest followed his example , each making a salute as he passed , each adding some apology . 
According to rules , said one . 
Forecastle council , said Morgan . 
And so with one remark or another all marched out and left Silver and me alone with the torch . 
The sea cook instantly removed his pipe . 
They're going to throw me off . 
But , you mark , I stand by you through thick and thin . 
I didn't mean to no , not till you spoke up . 
I was about desperate to lose that much blunt , and be hanged into the bargain . 
But I see you was the right sort . 
I says to myself , you stand by Hawkins , John , and Hawkins'll stand by you . 
You mean all's lost ? I asked . 
Aye , by gum , I do ! he answered . 
Ship gone , neck gone that's the size of it . 
Once I looked into that bay , Jim Hawkins , and seen no schooner well , I'm tough , but I gave out . 
As for that lot and their council , mark me , they're outright fools and cowards . 
I'll save your life if so be as I can from them . 
But , see here , Jim tit for tat you save Long John from swinging . 
I was bewildered it seemed a thing so hopeless he was asking he , the old buccaneer , the ringleader throughout . 
What I can do , that I'll do , I said . 
It's a bargain ! cried Long John . 
Understand me , Jim , he said , returning . 
I've a head on my shoulders , I have . 
I'm on squire's side now . 
I know you've got that ship safe somewheres . 
How you done it , I don't know , but safe it is . 
I guess Hands and O'Brien turned soft . 
I never much believed in neither of THEM . 
I ask no questions , nor I won't let others . 
I know when a game's up , I do and I know a lad that's staunch . 
Ah , you that's young you and me might have done a power of good together ! He drew some cognac from the cask into a tin cannikin . 
Will you taste , messmate ? he asked and when I had refused Well , I'll take a drain myself , Jim , said he . 
I need a caulker , for there's trouble on hand . 
And talking o' trouble , why did that doctor give me the chart , Jim ? My face expressed a wonder so unaffected that he saw the needlessness of further questions . 
Ah , well , he did , though , said he . 
And there's something under that , no doubt something , surely , under that , Jim bad or good . 
And he took another swallow of the brandy , shaking his great fair head like a man who looks forward to the worst . 
Silver briefly agreed , and this emissary retired again , leaving us together in the dark . 
There's a breeze coming , Jim , said Silver , who had by this time adopted quite a friendly and familiar tone . 
I turned to the loophole nearest me and looked out . 
The embers of the great fire had so far burned themselves out and now glowed so low and duskily that I understood why these conspirators desired a torch . 
The rest were all somewhat stooping , as though watching the manoeuvres of this last . 
Here they come , said I and I returned to my former position , for it seemed beneath my dignity that they should find me watching them . 
Well , let 'em come , lad let 'em come , said Silver cheerily . 
I've still a shot in my locker . 
The door opened , and the five men , standing huddled together just inside , pushed one of their number forward . 
In any other circumstances it would have been comical to see his slow advance , hesitating as he set down each foot , but holding his closed right hand in front of him . 
Step up , lad , cried Silver . 
Hand it over , lubber . 
I know the rules , I do I won't hurt a depytation . 
Thus encouraged , the buccaneer stepped forth more briskly , and having passed something to Silver , from hand to hand , slipped yet more smartly back again to his companions . 
The sea cook looked at what had been given him . 
The black spot ! I thought so , he observed . 
Where might you have got the paper ? Why , hillo ! Look here , now this ain't lucky ! You've gone and cut this out of a Bible . 
What fool's cut a Bible ? Ah , there ! said Morgan . 
There ! Wot did I say ? No good'll come o' that , I said . 
Well , you've about fixed it now , among you , continued Silver . 
You'll all swing now , I reckon . 
What soft headed lubber had a Bible ? It was Dick , said one . 
Dick , was it ? Then Dick can get to prayers , said Silver . 
He's seen his slice of luck , has Dick , and you may lay to that . 
But here the long man with the yellow eyes struck in . 
Belay that talk , John Silver , he said . 
This crew has tipped you the black spot in full council , as in dooty bound just you turn it over , as in dooty bound , and see what's wrote there . 
Thanky , George , replied the sea cook . 
You always was brisk for business , and has the rules by heart , George , as I'm pleased to see . 
Well , what is it , anyway ? Ah ! 'Deposed' that's it , is it ? Very pretty wrote , to be sure like print , I swear . 
Your hand o' write , George ? Why , you was gettin' quite a leadin' man in this here crew . 
You'll be cap'n next , I shouldn't wonder . 
Just oblige me with that torch again , will you ? This pipe don't draw . 
Come , now , said George , you don't fool this crew no more . 
You're a funny man , by your account but you're over now , and you'll maybe step down off that barrel and help vote . 
I thought you said you knowed the rules , returned Silver contemptuously . 
After that , we'll see . 
Oh , replied George , you don't be under no kind of apprehension WE'RE all square , we are . 
First , you've made a hash of this cruise you'll be a bold man to say no to that . 
Second , you let the enemy out o' this here trap for nothing . 
Why did they want out ? I dunno , but it's pretty plain they wanted it . 
Third , you wouldn't let us go at them upon the march . 
Oh , we see through you , John Silver you want to play booty , that's what's wrong with you . 
And then , fourth , there's this here boy . 
Is that all ? asked Silver quietly . 
Enough , too , retorted George . 
We'll all swing and sun dry for your bungling . 
Well now , look here , I'll answer these four p'ints one after another I'll answer 'em . 
Silver paused , and I could see by the faces of George and his late comrades that these words had not been said in vain . 
That's for number one , cried the accused , wiping the sweat from his brow , for he had been talking with a vehemence that shook the house . 
Why , I give you my word , I'm sick to speak to you . 
You've neither sense nor memory , and I leave it to fancy where your mothers was that let you come to sea . 
Sea ! Gentlemen o' fortune ! I reckon tailors is your trade . 
Go on , John , said Morgan . 
Speak up to the others . 
Ah , the others ! returned John . 
They're a nice lot , ain't they ? You say this cruise is bungled . 
Ah ! By gum , if you could understand how bad it's bungled , you would see ! We're that near the gibbet that my neck's stiff with thinking on it . 
You've seen 'em , maybe , hanged in chains , birds about 'em , seamen p'inting 'em out as they go down with the tide . 
'Who's that ? says one . 
'That ! Why , that's John Silver . 
I knowed him well , says another . 
And you can hear the chains a jangle as you go about and reach for the other buoy . 
Now , that's about where we are , every mother's son of us , thanks to him , and Hands , and Anderson , and other ruination fools of you . 
Kill that boy ? Not me , mates ! And number three ? Ah , well , there's a deal to say to number three . 
Why the doctor had given it to him was more than I could fancy . 
But if it were inexplicable to me , the appearance of the chart was incredible to the surviving mutineers . 
They leaped upon it like cats upon a mouse . 
Yes , said one , that's Flint , sure enough . 
J. F. , and a score below , with a clove hitch to it so he done ever . 
Mighty pretty , said George . 
But how are we to get away with it , and us no ship . 
Silver suddenly sprang up , and supporting himself with a hand against the wall Now I give you warning , George , he cried . 
One more word of your sauce , and I'll call you down and fight you . 
But civil you can speak , and shall , George Merry , you may lay to that . 
That's fair enow , said the old man Morgan . 
Fair ! I reckon so , said the sea cook . 
You lost the ship I found the treasure . 
Who's the better man at that ? And now I resign , by thunder ! Elect whom you please to be your cap'n now I'm done with it . 
Barbecue forever ! Barbecue for cap'n ! So that's the toon , is it ? cried the cook . 
George , I reckon you'll have to wait another turn , friend and lucky for you as I'm not a revengeful man . 
But that was never my way . 
And now , shipmates , this black spot ? 'Tain't much good now , is it ? Dick's crossed his luck and spoiled his Bible , and that's about all . 
It'll do to kiss the book on still , won't it ? growled Dick , who was evidently uneasy at the curse he had brought upon himself . 
A Bible with a bit cut out ! returned Silver derisively . 
It don't bind no more'n a ballad book . 
Don't it , though ? cried Dick with a sort of joy . 
Well , I reckon that's worth having too . 
Here , Jim here's a cur'osity for you , said Silver , and he tossed me the paper . 
It was around about the size of a crown piece . 
I have that curiosity beside me at this moment , but not a trace of writing now remains beyond a single scratch , such as a man might make with his thumb nail . 
That was the end of the night's business . 
And the doctor it was . 
Although I was glad to hear the sound , yet my gladness was not without admixture . 
You , doctor ! Top o' the morning to you , sir ! cried Silver , broad awake and beaming with good nature in a moment . 
Bright and early , to be sure and it's the early bird , as the saying goes , that gets the rations . 
George , shake up your timbers , son , and help Dr . 
Livesey over the ship's side . 
All a doin' well , your patients was all well and merry . 
We've quite a surprise for you too , sir , he continued . 
The doctor stopped outright , although he did not speak , and it was some seconds before he seemed able to move on . 
Well , well , he said at last , duty first and pleasure afterwards , as you might have said yourself , Silver . 
Let us overhaul these patients of yours . 
A moment afterwards he had entered the block house and with one grim nod to me proceeded with his work among the sick . 
Well , George , how goes it ? You're a pretty colour , certainly why , your liver , man , is upside down . 
Did you take that medicine ? Did he take that medicine , men ? Aye , aye , sir , he took it , sure enough , returned Morgan . 
The rogues looked at each other but swallowed the home thrust in silence . 
Dick don't feel well , sir , said one . 
Don't he ? replied the doctor . 
Well , step up here , Dick , and let me see your tongue . 
No , I should be surprised if he did ! The man's tongue is fit to frighten the French . 
Ah , there , said Morgan , that comed of sp'iling Bibles . 
I think it most probable though of course it's only an opinion that you'll all have the deuce to pay before you get that malaria out of your systems . 
Camp in a bog , would you ? Silver , I'm surprised at you . 
You're less of a fool than many , take you all round but you don't appear to me to have the rudiments of a notion of the rules of health . 
And now I should wish to have a talk with that boy , please . 
And he nodded his head in my direction carelessly . 
Silver struck the barrel with his open hand . 
Si lence ! he roared and looked about him positively like a lion . 
Doctor , he went on in his usual tones , I was a thinking of that , knowing as how you had a fancy for the boy . 
We're all humbly grateful for your kindness , and as you see , puts faith in you and takes the drugs down like that much grog . 
And I take it I've found a way as'll suit all . 
Good day to you , sir , and all our dooties to the squire and Cap'n Smollett . 
The explosion of disapproval , which nothing but Silver's black looks had restrained , broke out immediately the doctor had left the house . 
It seemed to me so obvious , in this case , that I could not imagine how he was to turn their anger . 
But he was twice the man the rest were , and his last night's victory had given him a huge preponderance on their minds . 
No , by thunder ! he cried . 
It's us must break the treaty when the time comes and till then I'll gammon that doctor , if I have to ile his boots with brandy . 
Slow , lad , slow , he said . 
They might round upon us in a twinkle of an eye if we was seen to hurry . 
Why , John , you're not afraid ? asked Dr . 
Doctor , I'm no coward no , not I not SO much ! and he snapped his fingers . 
If I was I wouldn't say it . 
But I'll own up fairly , I've the shakes upon me for the gallows . 
And I step aside see here and leave you and Jim alone . 
So , Jim , said the doctor sadly , here you are . 
As you have brewed , so shall you drink , my boy . 
Doctor , I said , you might spare me . 
If they come to torture me Jim , the doctor interrupted , and his voice was quite changed , Jim , I can't have this . 
Whip over , and we'll run for it . 
Doctor , said I , I passed my word . 
I know , I know , he cried . 
We can't help that , Jim , now . 
I'll take it on my shoulders , holus bolus , blame and shame , my boy but stay here , I cannot let you . 
Jump ! One jump , and you're out , and we'll run for it like antelopes . 
But , doctor , you did not let me finish . 
At half tide she must be high and dry . 
The ship ! exclaimed the doctor . 
Rapidly I described to him my adventures , and he heard me out in silence . 
There is a kind of fate in this , he observed when I had done . 
You found out the plot you found Ben Gunn the best deed that ever you did , or will do , though you live to ninety . 
Oh , by Jupiter , and talking of Ben Gunn ! Why , this is the mischief in person . 
Silver ! I'll give you a piece of advice , he continued as the cook drew near again don't you be in any great hurry after that treasure . 
Why , sir , I do my possible , which that ain't , said Silver . 
I can only , asking your pardon , save my life and the boy's by seeking for that treasure and you may lay to that . 
Well , Silver , replied the doctor , if that is so , I'll go one step further look out for squalls when you find it . 
Sir , said Silver , as between man and man , that's too much and too little . 
If you won't tell me what you mean plain out , just say so and I'll leave the helm . 
You couldn't say more , I'm sure , sir , not if you was my mother , he cried . 
Well , that's my first concession , added the doctor . 
My second is a piece of advice keep the boy close beside you , and when you need help , halloo . 
I'm off to seek it for you , and that itself will show you if I speak at random . 
Livesey shook hands with me through the stockade , nodded to Silver , and set off at a brisk pace into the wood . 
The Treasure hunt Flint's Pointer JIM , said Silver when we were alone , if I saved your life , you saved mine and I'll not forget it . 
I seen the doctor waving you to run for it with the tail of my eye , I did and I seen you say no , as plain as hearing . 
Jim , that's one to you . 
This is the first glint of hope I had since the attack failed , and I owe it you . 
Just then a man hailed us from the fire that breakfast was ready , and we were soon seated here and there about the sand over biscuit and fried junk . 
Even Silver , eating away , with Captain Flint upon his shoulder , had not a word of blame for their recklessness . 
And this the more surprised me , for I thought he had never shown himself so cunning as he did then . 
Aye , mates , said he , it's lucky you have Barbecue to think for you with this here head . 
I got what I wanted , I did . 
Sure enough , they have the ship . 
Where they have it , I don't know yet but once we hit the treasure , we'll have to jump about and find out . 
And then , mates , us that has the boats , I reckon , has the upper hand . 
As for hostage , he continued , that's his last talk , I guess , with them he loves so dear . 
I've got my piece o' news , and thanky to him for that but it's over and done . 
I'll take him in a line when we go treasure hunting , for we'll keep him like so much gold , in case of accidents , you mark , and in the meantime . 
It was no wonder the men were in a good humour now . 
For my part , I was horribly cast down . 
Should the scheme he had now sketched prove feasible , Silver , already doubly a traitor , would not hesitate to adopt it . 
Nay , and even if things so fell out that he was forced to keep his faith with Dr . 
We made a curious figure , had anyone been there to see us all in soiled sailor clothes and all but me armed to the teeth . 
Silver had two guns slung about him one before and one behind besides the great cutlass at his waist and a pistol in each pocket of his square tailed coat . 
To complete his strange appearance , Captain Flint sat perched upon his shoulder and gabbling odds and ends of purposeless sea talk . 
For all the world , I was led like a dancing bear . 
All the stores , I observed , came from our stock , and I could see the truth of Silver's words the night before . 
Even these bore trace of the drunken folly of the pirates , one in a broken thwart , and both in their muddy and unbailed condition . 
Both were to be carried along with us for the sake of safety and so , with our numbers divided between them , we set forth upon the bosom of the anchorage . 
As we pulled over , there was some discussion on the chart . 
A tall tree was thus the principal mark . 
The top of the plateau was dotted thickly with pine trees of varying height . 
Thence , bending to our left , we began to ascend the slope towards the plateau . 
It was , indeed , a most pleasant portion of the island that we were now approaching . 
A heavy scented broom and many flowering shrubs had almost taken the place of grass . 
Thickets of green nutmeg trees were dotted here and there with the red columns and the broad shadow of the pines and the first mingled their spice with the aroma of the others . 
The air , besides , was fresh and stirring , and this , under the sheer sunbeams , was a wonderful refreshment to our senses . 
The party spread itself abroad , in a fan shape , shouting and leaping to and fro . 
About the centre , and a good way behind the rest , Silver and I followed I tethered by my rope , he ploughing , with deep pants , among the sliding gravel . 
From time to time , indeed , I had to lend him a hand , or he must have missed his footing and fallen backward down the hill . 
We had thus proceeded for about half a mile and were approaching the brow of the plateau when the man upon the farthest left began to cry aloud , as if in terror . 
Shout after shout came from him , and the others began to run in his direction . 
He can't 'a found the treasure , said old Morgan , hurrying past us from the right , for that's clean a top . 
Indeed , as we found when we also reached the spot , it was something very different . 
I believe a chill struck for a moment to every heart . 
He was a seaman , said George Merry , who , bolder than the rest , had gone up close and was examining the rags of clothing . 
Leastways , this is good sea cloth . 
Aye , aye , said Silver like enough you wouldn't look to find a bishop here , I reckon . 
But what sort of a way is that for bones to lie ? 'Tain't in natur' . 
Indeed , on a second glance , it seemed impossible to fancy that the body was in a natural position . 
the man lay perfectly straight his feet pointing in one direction , his hands , raised above his head like a diver's , pointing directly in the opposite . 
I've taken a notion into my old numbskull , observed Silver . 
Here's the compass there's the tip top p'int o' Skeleton Island , stickin' out like a tooth . 
Just take a bearing , will you , along the line of them bones . 
Right up there is our line for the Pole Star and the jolly dollars . 
But , by thunder ! If it don't make me cold inside to think of Flint . 
This is one of HIS jokes , and no mistake . 
Aye , that would be Allardyce . 
You mind Allardyce , Tom Morgan ? Aye , aye , returned Morgan I mind him he owed me money , he did , and took my knife ashore with him . 
By the powers , and that's true ! cried Silver . 
There ain't a thing left here , said Merry , still feeling round among the bones not a copper doit nor a baccy box . 
It don't look nat'ral to me . 
No , by gum , it don't , agreed Silver not nat'ral , nor not nice , says you . 
Great guns ! Messmates , but if Flint was living , this would be a hot spot for you and me . 
Six they were , and six are we and bones is what they are now . 
I saw him dead with these here deadlights , said Morgan . 
There he laid , with penny pieces on his eyes . 
Dead aye , sure enough he's dead and gone below , said the fellow with the bandage but if ever sperrit walked , it would be Flint's . 
'Fifteen Men' were his only song , mates and I tell you true , I never rightly liked to hear it since . 
It was main hot , and the windy was open , and I hear that old song comin' out as clear as clear and the death haul on the man already . 
Come , come , said Silver stow this talk . 
He's dead , and he don't walk , that I know leastways , he won't walk by day , and you may lay to that . 
Fetch ahead for the doubloons . 
The terror of the dead buccaneer had fallen on their spirits . 
The plateau being somewhat tilted towards the west , this spot on which we had paused commanded a wide prospect on either hand . 
Sheer above us rose the Spy glass , here dotted with single pines , there black with precipices . 
There was no sound but that of the distant breakers , mounting from all round , and the chirp of countless insects in the brush . 
Not a man , not a sail , upon the sea the very largeness of the view increased the sense of solitude . 
Silver , as he sat , took certain bearings with his compass . 
There are three 'tall trees' said he , about in the right line from Skeleton Island . 
'Spy glass shoulder , I take it , means that lower p'int there . 
It's child's play to find the stuff now . 
I've half a mind to dine first . 
I don't feel sharp , growled Morgan . 
Thinkin' o' Flint I think it were as done me . 
Ah , well , my son , you praise your stars he's dead , said Silver . 
He were an ugly devil , cried a third pirate with a shudder that blue in the face too ! That was how the rum took him , added Merry . 
Blue ! Well , I reckon he was blue . 
The colour went from their six faces like enchantment some leaped to their feet , some clawed hold of others Morgan grovelled on the ground . 
It's Flint , by ! cried Merry . 
Coming through the clear , sunny atmosphere among the green tree tops , I thought it had sounded airily and sweetly and the effect on my companions was the stranger . 
Come , said Silver , struggling with his ashen lips to get the word out this won't do . 
Stand by to go about . 
This is a rum start , and I can't name the voice , but it's someone skylarking someone that's flesh and blood , and you may lay to that . 
His courage had come back as he spoke , and some of the colour to his face along with it . 
Long after the voice had died away they still stared in silence , dreadfully , before them . 
That fixes it ! gasped one . 
They was his last words , moaned Morgan , his last words above board . 
Dick had his Bible out and was praying volubly . 
He had been well brought up , had Dick , before he came to sea and fell among bad companions . 
I could hear his teeth rattle in his head , but he had not yet surrendered . 
Nobody in this here island ever heard of Darby , he muttered not one but us that's here . 
And then , making a great effort Shipmates , he cried , I'm here to get that stuff , and I'll not be beat by man or devil . 
I never was feared of Flint in his life , and , by the powers , I'll face him dead . 
There's seven hundred thousand pound not a quarter of a mile from here . 
Belay there , John ! said Merry . 
Don't you cross a sperrit . 
And the rest were all too terrified to reply . 
They would have run away severally had they dared but fear kept them together , and kept them close by John , as if his daring helped them . 
He , on his part , had pretty well fought his weakness down . 
Sperrit ? Well , maybe , he said . 
But there's one thing not clear to me . 
But you can never tell what will affect the superstitious , and to my wonder , George Merry was greatly relieved . 
Well , that's so , he said . 
You've a head upon your shoulders , John , and no mistake . 
'Bout ship , mates ! This here crew is on a wrong tack , I do believe . 
And come to think on it , it was like Flint's voice , I grant you , but not just so clear away like it , after all . 
It was liker somebody else's voice now it was liker By the powers , Ben Gunn ! roared Silver . 
Aye , and so it were , cried Morgan , springing on his knees . 
Ben Gunn it were ! It don't make much odds , do it , now ? asked Dick . 
Ben Gunn's not here in the body any more'n Flint . 
But the older hands greeted this remark with scorn . 
Why , nobody minds Ben Gunn , cried Merry dead or alive , nobody minds him . 
It was extraordinary how their spirits had returned and how the natural colour had revived in their faces . 
He had said the truth dead or alive , nobody minded Ben Gunn . 
Dick alone still held his Bible , and looked around him as he went , with fearful glances but he found no sympathy , and Silver even joked him on his precautions . 
I told you , said he I told you you had sp'iled your Bible . 
Livesey , was evidently growing swiftly higher . 
It was fine open walking here , upon the summit our way lay a little downhill , for , as I have said , the plateau tilted towards the west . 
The pines , great and small , grew wide apart and even between the clumps of nutmeg and azalea , wide open spaces baked in the hot sunshine . 
The first of the tall trees was reached , and by the bearings proved the wrong one . 
It was conspicuous far to sea both on the east and west and might have been entered as a sailing mark upon the chart . 
But it was not its size that now impressed my companions it was the knowledge that seven hundred thousand pounds in gold lay somewhere buried below its spreading shadow . 
The thought of the money , as they drew nearer , swallowed up their previous terrors . 
Certainly he took no pains to hide his thoughts , and certainly I read them like print . 
Shaken as I was with these alarms , it was hard for me to keep up with the rapid pace of the treasure hunters . 
Now and again I stumbled , and it was then that Silver plucked so roughly at the rope and launched at me his murderous glances . 
Dick , who had dropped behind us and now brought up the rear , was babbling to himself both prayers and curses as his fever kept rising . 
This grove that was now so peaceful must then have rung with cries , I thought and even with the thought I could believe I heard it ringing still . 
We were now at the margin of the thicket . 
Huzza , mates , all together ! shouted Merry and the foremost broke into a run . 
And suddenly , not ten yards further , we beheld them stop . 
Silver doubled his pace , digging away with the foot of his crutch like one possessed and next moment he and I had come also to a dead halt . 
Before us was a great excavation , not very recent , for the sides had fallen in and grass had sprouted on the bottom . 
In this were the shaft of a pick broken in two and the boards of several packing cases strewn around . 
On one of these boards I saw , branded with a hot iron , the name WALRUS the name of Flint's ship . 
All was clear to probation . 
The CACHE had been found and rifled the seven hundred thousand pounds were gone ! The Fall of a Chieftain THERE never was such an overturn in this world . 
Each of these six men was as though he had been struck . 
But with Silver the blow passed almost instantly . 
Jim , he whispered , take that , and stand by for trouble . 
And he passed me a double barrelled pistol . 
At the same time , he began quietly moving northward , and in a few steps had put the hollow between us two and the other five . 
Then he looked at me and nodded , as much as to say , Here is a narrow corner , as , indeed , I thought it was . 
His looks were not quite friendly , and I was so revolted at these constant changes that I could not forbear whispering , So you've changed sides again . 
There was no time left for him to answer in . 
Morgan found a piece of gold . 
He held it up with a perfect spout of oaths . 
It was a two guinea piece , and it went from hand to hand among them for a quarter of a minute . 
Two guineas ! roared Merry , shaking it at Silver . 
Pig nuts ! repeated Merry , in a scream . 
Mates , do you hear that ? I tell you now , that man there knew it all along . 
Look in the face of him and you'll see it wrote there . 
Ah , Merry , remarked Silver , standing for cap'n again ? You're a pushing lad , to be sure . 
But this time everyone was entirely in Merry's favour . 
They began to scramble out of the excavation , darting furious glances behind them . 
One thing I observed , which looked well for us they all got out upon the opposite side from Silver . 
Well , there we stood , two on one side , five on the other , the pit between us , and nobody screwed up high enough to offer the first blow . 
Silver never moved he watched them , very upright on his crutch , and looked as cool as ever I saw him . 
He was brave , and no mistake . 
At last Merry seemed to think a speech might help matters . 
Now , mates He was raising his arm and his voice , and plainly meant to lead a charge . 
But just then crack ! crack ! crack ! three musket shots flashed out of the thicket . 
At the same moment , the doctor , Gray , and Ben Gunn joined us , with smoking muskets , from among the nutmeg trees . 
Forward ! cried the doctor . 
Double quick , my lads . 
We must head 'em off the boats . 
And we set off at a great pace , sometimes plunging through the bushes to the chest . 
I tell you , but Silver was anxious to keep up with us . 
As it was , he was already thirty yards behind us and on the verge of strangling when we reached the brow of the slope . 
Doctor , he hailed , see there ! No hurry ! Sure enough there was no hurry . 
In a more open part of the plateau , we could see the three survivors still running in the same direction as they had started , right for Mizzen mast Hill . 
We were already between them and the boats and so we four sat down to breathe , while Long John , mopping his face , came slowly up with us . 
Thank ye kindly , doctor , says he . 
You came in in about the nick , I guess , for me and Hawkins . 
And so it's you , Ben Gunn ! he added . 
Well , you're a nice one , to be sure . 
I'm Ben Gunn , I am , replied the maroon , wriggling like an eel in his embarrassment . 
And , he added , after a long pause , how do , Mr. Silver ? Pretty well , I thank ye , says you . 
It was a story that profoundly interested Silver and Ben Gunn , the half idiot maroon , was the hero from beginning to end . 
Soon , however , he saw that our party had the start of him and Ben Gunn , being fleet of foot , had been dispatched in front to do his best alone . 
Ah , said Silver , it were fortunate for me that I had Hawkins here . 
You would have let old John be cut to bits , and never given it a thought , doctor . 
Not a thought , replied Dr . 
And by this time we had reached the gigs . 
The doctor , with the pick axe , demolished one of them , and then we all got aboard the other and set out to go round by sea for North Inlet . 
This was a run of eight or nine miles . 
Silver , though he was almost killed already with fatigue , was set to an oar , like the rest of us , and we were soon skimming swiftly over a smooth sea . 
Soon we passed out of the straits and doubled the south east corner of the island , round which , four days ago , we had towed the HISPANIOLA . 
As we passed the two pointed hill , we could see the black mouth of Ben Gunn's cave and a figure standing by it , leaning on a musket . 
It was the squire , and we waved a handkerchief and gave him three cheers , in which the voice of Silver joined as heartily as any . 
As it was , there was little amiss beyond the wreck of the main sail . 
Another anchor was got ready and dropped in a fathom and a half of water . 
A gentle slope ran up from the beach to the entrance of the cave . 
At the top , the squire met us . 
To me he was cordial and kind , saying nothing of my escapade either in the way of blame or praise . 
At Silver's polite salute he somewhat flushed . 
John Silver , he said , you're a prodigious villain and imposter a monstrous imposter , sir . 
I am told I am not to prosecute you . 
Well , then , I will not . 
But the dead men , sir , hang about your neck like mill stones . 
Thank you kindly , sir , replied Long John , again saluting . 
I dare you to thank me ! cried the squire . 
It is a gross dereliction of my duty . 
And thereupon we all entered the cave . 
It was a large , airy place , with a little spring and a pool of clear water , overhung with ferns . 
That was Flint's treasure that we had come so far to seek and that had cost already the lives of seventeen men from the HISPANIOLA . 
Come in , Jim , said the captain . 
You're a good boy in your line , Jim , but I don't think you and me'll go to sea again . 
You're too much of the born favourite for me . 
Is that you , John Silver ? What brings you here , man ? Come back to my dooty , sir , returned Silver . 
Ah ! said the captain , and that was all he said . 
Never , I am sure , were people gayer or happier . 
Therefore the work was pushed on briskly . 
Gray and Ben Gunn came and went with the boat , while the rest during their absences piled treasure on the beach . 
Two of the bars , slung in a rope's end , made a good load for a grown man one that he was glad to walk slowly with . 
For my part , as I was not much use at carrying , I was kept busy all day in the cave packing the minted money into bread bags . 
It was only a snatch that reached our ears , followed by the former silence . 
Heaven forgive them , said the doctor 'tis the mutineers ! All drunk , sir , struck in the voice of Silver from behind us . 
Silver , I should say , was allowed his entire liberty , and in spite of daily rebuffs , seemed to regard himself once more as quite a privileged and friendly dependent . 
Indeed , it was remarkable how well he bore these slights and with what unwearying politeness he kept on trying to ingratiate himself with all . 
Accordingly , it was pretty gruffly that the doctor answered him . 
Drunk or raving , said he . 
Right you were , sir , replied Silver and precious little odds which , to you and me . 
I suppose you would hardly ask me to call you a humane man , returned the doctor with a sneer , and so my feelings may surprise you , Master Silver . 
Ask your pardon , sir , you would be very wrong , quoth Silver . 
You would lose your precious life , and you may lay to that . 
I'm on your side now , hand and glove and I shouldn't wish for to see the party weakened , let alone yourself , seeing as I know what I owes you . 
But these men down there , they couldn't keep their word no , not supposing they wished to and what's more , they couldn't believe as you could . 
No , said the doctor . 
You're the man to keep your word , we know that . 
Well , that was about the last news we had of the three pirates . 
Only once we heard a gunshot a great way off and supposed them to be hunting . 
That was about our last doing on the island . 
The three fellows must have been watching us closer than we thought for , as we soon had proved . 
The doctor hailed them and told them of the stores we had left , and where they were to find them . 
But they continued to call us by name and appeal to us , for God's sake , to be merciful and not leave them to die in such a place . 
That was , at least , the end of that and before noon , to my inexpressible joy , the highest rock of Treasure Island had sunk into the blue round of sea . 
Ben Gunn was on deck alone , and as soon as we came on board he began , with wonderful contortions , to make us a confession . 
But this was not all . 
The sea cook had not gone empty handed . 
He had cut through a bulkhead unobserved and had removed one of the sacks of coin , worth perhaps three or four hundred guineas , to help him on his further wanderings . 
I think we were all pleased to be so cheaply quit of him . 
Five men only of those who had sailed returned with her . 
All of us had an ample share of the treasure and used it wisely or foolishly , according to our natures . 
Captain Smollett is now retired from the sea . 
Of Silver we have heard no more . 
It is to be hoped so , I suppose , for his chances of comfort in another world are very small . 
The bar silver and the arms still lie , for all that I know , where Flint buried them and certainly they shall lie there for me . 
