The Red One by Jack London Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
Walls of cities , he meditated , might well fall down before so vast and compelling a summons . 
For the thousandth time vainly he tried to analyse the tone quality of that enormous peal that dominated the land far into the strong holds of the surrounding tribes . 
The mountain gorge which was its source rang to the rising tide of it until it brimmed over and flooded earth and sky and air . 
With the wantonness of a sick man's fancy , he likened it to the mighty cry of some Titan of the Elder World vexed with misery or wrath . 
Higher and higher it arose , challenging and demanding in such profounds of volume that it seemed intended for ears beyond the narrow confines of the solar system . 
There was in it , too , the clamour of protest in that there were no ears to hear and comprehend its utterance . 
Such the sick man's fancy . 
Still he strove to analyse the sound . 
There were no words nor semblances in his vocabulary and experience with which to describe the totality of that sound . 
It became a confusion of troubled mutterings and babblings and colossal whisperings . 
It dwindled to a ghost of sound that had lost its menace and promise , and became a thing that pulsed on in the sick man's consciousness for minutes after it had ceased . 
When he could hear it no longer , Bassett glanced at his watch . 
An hour had elapsed ere that archangel's trump had subsided into tonal nothingness . 
Was this , then , HIS dark tower ? Bassett pondered , remembering his Browning and gazing at his skeleton like and fever wasted hands . 
And the fancy made him smile of Childe Roland bearing a slug horn to his lips with an arm as feeble as his was . 
Was it months , or years , he asked himself , since he first heard that mysterious call on the beach at Ringmanu ? To save himself he could not tell . 
The long sickness had been most long . 
In conscious count of time he knew of months , many of them but he had no way of estimating the long intervals of delirium and stupor . 
Bad fella boy , too much stop'm along bush . 
Bassett smiled sadly at the recollection . 
The little New Hanover boy had been frightened , but had proved faithful , following him without hesitancy into the bush in the quest after the source of the wonderful sound . 
No fire hollowed tree trunk , that , throbbing war through the jungle depths , had been Bassett's conclusion . 
That big fella noise no good , all the same devil devil , Sagawa had adjudged . 
And Sagawa had been right . 
Had he not had his head hacked off within the day ? Bassett shuddered . 
Without doubt Sagawa had been eaten as well by the bad fella boys too much that stopped along the bush . 
Yes , within a minute the thing had happened . 
Within a minute , looking back , Bassett had seen him trudging patiently along under his burdens . 
Then Bassett's own trouble had come upon him . 
He looked at the cruelly healed stumps of the first and second fingers of his left hand , then rubbed them softly into the indentation in the back of his skull . 
Quick as had been the flash of the long handled tomahawk , he had been quick enough to duck away his head and partially to deflect the stroke with his up flung hand . 
Two fingers and a hasty scalp wound had been the price he paid for his life . 
Everything had occurred in a flash . 
Only himself , the slain bushman , and what remained of Sagawa , were in the narrow , wild pig run of a path . 
From the dark jungle on either side came no rustle of movement or sound of life . 
And he had suffered distinct and dreadful shock . 
For the first time in his life he had killed a human being , and he knew nausea as he contemplated the mess of his handiwork . 
Then had begun the chase . 
He retreated up the pig run before his hunters , who were between him and the beach . 
How many there were , he could not guess . 
There might have been one , or a hundred , for aught he saw of them . 
That some of them took to the trees and travelled along through the jungle roof he was certain but at the most he never glimpsed more than an occasional flitting of shadows . 
They were bone tipped and feather shafted , and the feathers , torn from the breasts of humming birds , iridesced like jewels . 
He could make out nothing , but , deciding to chance it , had fired at it a heavy charge of number five shot . 
He , on the other hand , was not idle , and with his free foot had done what reduced the squalling to silence . 
So inured to savagery has Bassett since become , that he chuckled again with the glee of the recollection . 
There had been no escaping them , and he had not dared to light a fire . 
Twenty four hours had made a wreck of him of mind as well as body . 
He had scarcely retained his wits at all , so maddened was he by the tremendous inoculation of poison he had received . 
Several times he fired his shot gun with effect into the shadows that dogged him . 
Once , in that day , he heard again the wonderful sound , seemingly more distant , but rising imperiously above the nearer war drums in the bush . 
Right there was where he had made his mistake . 
That night , crawling in among the twisted roots of a banyan tree , he had slept from exhaustion while the mosquitoes had had their will of him . 
Followed days and nights that were vague as nightmares in his memory . 
One clear vision he remembered was of suddenly finding himself in the midst of a bush village and watching the old men and children fleeing into the jungle . 
All had fled but one . 
From close at hand and above him , a whimpering as of some animal in pain and terror had startled him . 
And looking up he had seen her a girl , or young woman rather , suspended by one arm in the cooking sun . 
Perhaps for days she had so hung . 
Her swollen , protruding tongue spoke as much . 
Still alive , she gazed at him with eyes of terror . 
Past help , he decided , as he noted the swellings of her legs which advertised that the joints had been crushed and the great bones broken . 
He resolved to shoot her , and there the vision terminated . 
Many pictures , unrelated , came and went in Bassett's mind as he reviewed that period of his terrible wanderings . 
It was at this place that a wantonness of savagery had seized upon him . 
Having feasted , ready to depart with a hind quarter of the pig in his hand , he deliberately fired the grass thatch of a house with his burning glass . 
But seared deepest of all in Bassett's brain , was the dank and noisome jungle . 
It actually stank with evil , and it was always twilight . 
Rarely did a shaft of sunlight penetrate its matted roof a hundred feet overhead . 
And beneath that roof was an aerial ooze of vegetation , a monstrous , parasitic dripping of decadent life forms that rooted in death and lived on death . 
As the bull's horns and stamping hoofs kept off the coyotes , so his shot gun kept off these Solomon Islanders , these twilight shades of bushmen of the island of Guadalcanal . 
Came the day of the grass lands . 
Abruptly , as if cloven by the sword of God in the hand of God , the jungle terminated . 
The edge of it , perpendicular and as black as the infamy of it , was a hundred feet up and down . 
But the grass ! He had crawled into it a dozen yards , buried his face in it , smelled it , and broken down in a fit of involuntary weeping . 
Sweet it was , as no sound ever heard . 
Vast it was , of so mighty a resonance that it might have proceeded from some brazen throated monster . 
And yet it called to him across that leagues wide savannah , and was like a benediction to his long suffering , pain racked spirit . 
Some freak of air pressures and air currents , he reflected , had made it possible for the sound to carry so far . 
It was for this purpose that Sagawa had carried the ten gauge shot gun . 
Two days and nights he had spent crawling across that belt of grass land . 
He had suffered much , but pursuit had ceased at the jungle edge . 
And he would have died of thirst had not a heavy thunderstorm revived him on the second day . 
And then had come Balatta . 
In the first shade , where the savannah yielded to the dense mountain jungle , he had collapsed to die . 
At first she had squealed with delight at sight of his helplessness , and was for beating his brain out with a stout forest branch . 
Perhaps it was his very utter helplessness that had appealed to her , and perhaps it was her human curiosity that made her refrain . 
At any rate , she had refrained , for he opened his eyes again under the impending blow , and saw her studying him intently . 
What especially struck her about him were his blue eyes and white skin . 
And everything about her had struck him especially , although there was nothing conventional about her at all . 
He laughed weakly at the recollection , for she had been as innocent of garb as Eve before the fig leaf adventure . 
So lately had the tail been severed , that its raw end still oozed blood that dried upon her shoulder like so much candle droppings . 
Not even the water she brought him in a forest leaf , and the ancient and half putrid chunk of roast pig , could redeem in the slightest the grotesque hideousness of her . 
Then had come the sound . 
Nearer , much nearer , he knew it to be and he knew equally well , despite the weary way he had come , that it was still many hours distant . 
The effect of it on her had been startling . 
She cringed under it , with averted face , moaning and chattering with fear . 
But after it had lived its full life of an hour , he closed his eyes and fell asleep with Balatta brushing the flies from him . 
When he awoke it was night , and she was gone . 
A little later Balatta had returned , bringing with her a half dozen women who , unbeautiful as they were , were patently not so unbeautiful as she . 
Ngurn , whom Bassett was to know afterward as the devil devil doctor , priest , or medicine man of the village , had wanted his head . 
Others of the grinning and chattering monkey men , all as stark of clothes and bestial of appearance as Balatta , had wanted his body for the roasting oven . 
At that time he had not understood their language , if by LANGUAGE might be dignified the uncouth sounds they made to represent ideas . 
Balatta had been losing the debate rapidly , when the accident happened . 
One of the men , curiously examining Bassett's shot gun , managed to cock and pull a trigger . 
Even Balatta joined the others in flight , and , ere they returned , his senses already reeling from the oncoming fever attack , Bassett had regained possession of the gun . 
At the last , with due emphasis , of solemnity and awfulness , he had killed a young pig with his shot gun and promptly fainted . 
Bassett flexed his arm muscles in quest of what possible strength might reside in such weakness , and dragged himself slowly and totteringly to his feet . 
He was shockingly emaciated yet , during the various convalescences of the many months of his long sickness , he had never regained quite the same degree of strength as this time . 
What he feared was another relapse such as he had already frequently experienced . 
Without drugs , without even quinine , he had managed so far to live through a combination of the most pernicious and most malignant of malarial and black water fevers . 
But could he continue to endure ? Such was his everlasting query . 
For , like the genuine scientist he was , he would not be content to die until he had solved the secret of the sound . 
Supported by a staff , he staggered the few steps to the devil devil house where death and Ngurn reigned in gloom . 
Almost as infamously dark and evil stinking as the jungle was the devil devil house in Bassett's opinion . 
With the eye of an expert Ngurn examined the particular head he was at work upon . 
It will be ten days before I can say 'finish , he said . 
Never has any man fixed heads like these . 
Bassett smiled inwardly at the old fellow's reluctance to talk with him of the Red One . 
It had always been so . 
Never , by any chance , had Ngurn or any other member of the weird tribe divulged the slightest hint of any physical characteristic of the Red One . 
Red enough were the deeds and powers of it , from what abstract clues he had gleaned . 
He was the god of a dozen allied villages similar to this one , which was the central and commanding village of the federation . 
By virtue of the Red One many alien villages had been devastated and even wiped out , the prisoners sacrificed to the Red One . 
This was true to day , and it extended back into old history carried down by word of mouth through the generations . 
When he , Ngurn , had been a young man , the tribes beyond the grass lands had made a war raid . 
In the counter raid , Ngurn and his fighting folk had made many prisoners . 
Of children alone over five score living had been bled white before the Red One , and many , many more men and women . 
The Thunderer was another of Ngurn's names for the mysterious deity . 
Why The Star Born ? In vain Bassett interrogated Ngurn . 
According to that old devil devil doctor , the Red One had always been , just where he was at present , for ever singing and thundering his will over men . 
But Ngurn's father , wrapped in decaying grass matting and hanging even then over their heads among the smoky rafters of the devil devil house , had held otherwise . 
How could a memory be a star ? Further , after all his long life he still observed the starry night sky unaltered . 
Never had he noted the absence of a single star from its accustomed place . 
Besides , stars were fire , and the Red One was not fire which last involuntary betrayal told Bassett nothing . 
Will the Red One speak to morrow ? he queried . 
Ngurn shrugged his shoulders as who should say . 
And the day after ? and the day after that ? Bassett persisted . 
I would like to have the curing of your head , Ngurn changed the subject . 
It is different from any other head . 
No devil devil has a head like it . 
Besides , I would cure it well . 
I would take months and months . 
The moons would come and the moons would go , and the smoke would be very slow , and I should myself gather the materials for the curing smoke . 
The skin would not wrinkle . 
It would be as smooth as your skin now . 
It is a head like yours , he said , but it is poorly cured . 
Certainly he had found them without the almost universal beche de mer English of the west South Pacific . 
Nor had they knowledge of tobacco , nor of gunpowder . 
Ancient it was beyond question white it was as the blond hair attested . 
He could have sworn it once belonged to an Englishman , and to an Englishman of long before by token of the heavy gold circlets still threaded in the withered ear lobes . 
the devil devil doctor began on his favourite topic . 
I'll tell you what , Bassett interrupted , struck by a new idea . 
When I die I'll let you have my head to cure , if , first , you take me to look upon the Red One . 
I will have your head anyway when you are dead , Ngurn rejected the proposition . 
He added , with the brutal frankness of the savage Besides , you have not long to live . 
You are almost a dead man now . 
You will grow less strong . 
In not many months I shall have you here turning and turning in the smoke . 
It is pleasant , through the long afternoons , to turn the head of one you have known as well as I know you . 
And I shall talk to you and tell you the many secrets you want to know . 
Which will not matter , for you will be dead . 
Ngurn , Bassett threatened in sudden anger . 
You know the Baby Thunder in the Iron that is mine . 
I can kill you any time , and then you will not get my head . 
Just the same , will Vngngn , or some one else of my folk get it , Ngurn complacently assured him . 
And just the same will it turn here in the and turn devil devil house in the smoke . 
The quicker you slay me with your Baby Thunder , the quicker will your head turn in the smoke . 
And Bassett knew he was beaten in the discussion . 
What was the Red One ? Bassett asked himself a thousand times in the succeeding week , while he seemed to grow stronger . 
Vngngn , imbecile and chief that he was , was too imbecilic , too much under the sway of Ngurn , to be considered . 
Remained Balatta , who , from the time she found him and poked his blue eyes open to recrudescence of her grotesque female hideousness , had continued his adorer . 
Woman she was , and he had long known that the only way to win from her treason of her tribe was through the woman's heart of her . 
Bassett was a fastidious man . 
He had never recovered from the initial horror caused by Balatta's female awfulness . 
Back in England , even at best the charm of woman , to him , had never been robust . 
And the next he did in the singular courtship was to take her down to the stream and give her a vigorous scrubbing . 
From then on he devoted himself to her like a true swain as frequently and for as long at a time as his will could override his repugnance . 
But marriage , which she ardently suggested , with due observance of tribal custom , he balked at . 
Fortunately , taboo rule was strong in the tribe . 
Thus , Ngurn could never touch bone , or flesh , or hide of crocodile . 
This had been ordained at his birth . 
Vngngn was denied ever the touch of woman . 
Such pollution , did it chance to occur , could be purged only by the death of the offending female . 
It had happened once , since Bassett's arrival , when a girl of nine , running in play , stumbled and fell against the sacred chief . 
And the girl child was seen no more . 
In whispers , Balatta told Bassett that she had been three days and nights in dying before the Red One . 
As for Balatta , the breadfruit was taboo to her . 
For which Bassett was thankful . 
The taboo might have been water . 
For himself , he fabricated a special taboo . 
Only could he marry , he explained , when the Southern Cross rode highest in the sky . 
At first he had fancied the Red One to be some colossal statue , like Memnon , rendered vocal under certain temperature conditions of sunlight . 
In company with Balatta , sometimes with men and parties of women , the freedom of the jungle was his for three quadrants of the compass . 
But the fourth quadrant , which contained the Red One's abiding place , was taboo . 
He made more thorough love to Balatta also saw to it that she scrubbed herself more frequently . 
Eternal female she was , capable of any treason for the sake of love . 
Bassett was a scientist first , a humanist afterward . 
In the jungle heart of Guadalcanal he put the affair to the test , as in the laboratory he would have put to the test any chemical reaction . 
She begged him to kill her rather than exact this ultimate love payment . 
And Balatta , being mere woman , yielded . 
She led him into the forbidden quadrant . 
An abrupt mountain , shouldering in from the north to meet a similar intrusion from the south , tormented the stream in which they had fished into a deep and gloomy gorge . 
After a mile along the gorge , the way plunged sharply upward until they crossed a saddle of raw limestone which attracted his geologist's eye . 
Still climbing , although he paused often from sheer physical weakness , they scaled forest clad heights until they emerged on a naked mesa or tableland . 
Bassett recognized the stuff of its composition as black volcanic sand , and knew that a pocket magnet could have captured a full load of the sharply angular grains he trod upon . 
And then holding Balatta by the hand and leading her onward , he came to it a tremendous pit , obviously artificial , in the heart of the plateau . 
Old history , the South Seas Sailing Directions , scores of remembered data and connotations swift and furious , surged through his brain . 
It was Mendana who had discovered the islands and named them Solomon's , believing that he had found that monarch's fabled mines . 
But no diamond this that he gazed down upon . 
And the Red One himself Bassett knew it to be on the instant . 
A perfect sphere , full two hundred feet in diameter , the top of it was a hundred feet below the level of the rim . 
He likened the colour quality of it to lacquer . 
Indeed , he took it to be some sort of lacquer , applied by man , but a lacquer too marvellously clever to have been manufactured by the bush folk . 
Brighter than bright cherry red , its richness of colour was as if it were red builded upon red . 
It glowed and iridesced in the sunlight as if gleaming up from underlay under underlay of red . 
In vain Balatta strove to dissuade him from descending . 
She threw herself in the dirt but , when he continued down the trail that spiralled the pit wall , she followed , cringing and whimpering her terror . 
That the red sphere had been dug out as a precious thing , was patent . 
Considering the paucity of members of the federated twelve villages and their primitive tools and methods , Bassett knew that the toil of a myriad generations could scarcely have made that enormous excavation . 
He found the pit bottom carpeted with human bones , among which , battered and defaced , lay village gods of wood and stone . 
Some , covered with obscene totemic figures and designs , were carved from solid tree trunks forty or fifty feet in length . 
He noted the absence of the shark and turtle gods , so common among the shore villages , and was amazed at the constant recurrence of the helmet motive . 
Nor was the surface smooth as it should have been in the case of lacquer . 
On the contrary , it was corrugated and pitted , with here and there patches that showed signs of heat and fusing . 
Also , the substance of it was metal , though unlike any metal , or combination of metals , he had ever known . 
As for the colour itself , he decided it to be no application . 
It was the intrinsic colour of the metal itself . 
He moved his finger tips , which up to that had merely rested , along the surface , and felt the whole gigantic sphere quicken and live and respond . 
He looked at Balatta with swift questioning but the voice of the Red One he had evoked had flung her face downward and moaning among the bones . 
He returned to contemplation of the prodigy . 
Hollow it was , and of no metal known on earth , was his conclusion . 
It was right named by the ones of old time as the Star Born . 
Only from the stars could it have come , and no thing of chance was it . 
It was a creation of artifice and mind . 
Such perfection of form , such hollowness that it certainly possessed , could not be the result of mere fortuitousness . 
A child of intelligences , remote and unguessable , working corporally in metals , it indubitably was . 
She upreared on her own knees in an agony of terror , clasping his knees and supplicating him to desist . 
In the intensity of her desire to impress him , she put her forearm between her teeth and sank them to the bone . 
He scarcely observed her act , although he yielded automatically to his gentler instincts and withheld the knife hack . 
To him , human life had dwarfed to microscopic proportions before this colossal portent of higher life from within the distances of the sidereal universe . 
As had she been a dog , he kicked the ugly little bushwoman to her feet and compelled her to start with him on an encirclement of the base . 
Part way around , he encountered horrors . 
Even , among the others , did he recognize the sun shrivelled remnant of the nine years girl who had accidentally broken Chief Vngngn's personality taboo . 
And , among what was left of these that had passed , he encountered what was left of one who had not yet passed . 
Truly had the bush folk named themselves into the name of the Red One , seeing in him their own image which they strove to placate and please with such red offerings . 
Simple and primitive was it as was the Red One's consummate artifice . 
From the striker king post , were suspended ropes of climbers to which men could apply their strength and direction . 
Like a battering ram , this king post could be driven end onward against the mighty red iridescent sphere . 
Here was where Ngurn officiated and functioned religiously for himself and the twelve tribes under him . 
The nights , by election , Bassett spent on the ashen floor of the devil devil house , beneath the ever swinging , slow curing heads . 
His days Bassett spent in a hammock swung under the shade of the great breadfruit tree before the devil devil house . 
There were breaks in this programme , when , in the comas of his devastating fever attacks , he lay for days and nights in the house of heads . 
He could no more apprehend limits to time than bounds to space . 
No subversive radium speculations had shaken his steady scientific faith in the conservation of energy and the indestructibility of matter . 
Always and forever must there have been stars . 
And surely , in that cosmic ferment , all must be comparatively alike , comparatively of the same substance , or substances , save for the freaks of the ferment . 
All must obey , or compose , the same laws that ran without infraction through the entire experience of man . 
Therefore , he argued and agreed , must worlds and life be appanages to all the suns as they were appanages to the particular of his own solar system . 
So reasoning , he felt his soul go forth in kinship with that august company , that multitude whose gaze was forever upon the arras of infinity . 
It was of design , not chance , and it contained the speech and wisdom of the stars . 
It was Time's greatest gift to blindfold , insatiable , and sky aspiring man . 
Such the law expounded by Ngurn to Bassett . 
There was such a thing as blood brotherhood . 
Bassett , in return , had often argued in the past . 
But Ngurn had stated solemnly no . 
Even the blood brotherhood was outside the favour of the Red One . 
Only a man born within the tribe could look upon the Red One and live . 
But now , his guilty secret known only to Balatta , whose fear of immolation before the Red One fast sealed her lips , the situation was different . 
What he had to do was to recover from the abominable fevers that weakened him , and gain to civilization . 
He faded as the Southern Cross rose higher in the sky , till even Balatta knew that he would be dead ere the nuptial date determined by his taboo . 
As for himself , Bassett was not shocked . 
Too long and too deeply had life ebbed down in him to bite him with fear of its impending extinction . 
Came the day when all mists and cob webs dissolved , when he found his brain clear as a bell , and took just appraisement of his body's weakness . 
Neither hand nor foot could he lift . 
So little control of his body did he have , that he was scarcely aware of possessing one . 
Lightly indeed his flesh sat upon his soul , and his soul , in its briefness of clarity , knew by its very clarity that the black of cessation was near . 
I know the law , O Ngurn , he concluded the matter . 
Whoso is not of the folk may not look upon the Red One and live . 
I shall not live anyway . 
Thus will the three things be satisfied the law , my desire , and your quicker possession of my head for which all your preparations wait . 
To which Ngurn consented , adding It is better so . 
A sick man who cannot get well is foolish to live on for so little a while . 
Also is it better for the living that he should go . 
You have been much in the way of late . 
Not but what it was good for me to talk to such a wise one . 
But for moons of days we have held little talk . 
This has been a confusion to me , for I like to think on the great things of the light and dark as I turn the heads in the smoke . 
Your much noise has thus been a disturbance to the long learning and hatching of the final wisdom that will be mine before I die . 
As for you , upon whom the dark has already brooded , it is well that you die now . 
And I promise you , in the long days to come when I turn your head in the smoke , no man of the tribe shall come in to disturb us . 
Down the spiral path of the pit they bore him , encircling the sheening , glowing Red One that seemed ever imminent to iridesce from colour and light into sweet singing and thunder . 
Here Bassett , helped by Ngurn and Balatta , weakly sat up , swaying weakly from the hips , and with clear , unfaltering , all seeing eyes gazed upon the Red One . 
I wait , Ngurn prompted after a long pause , the long handled tomahawk unassumingly ready in his hand . 
Once , O Ngurn , Bassett repeated , let the Red One speak so that I may see it speak as well as hear it . 
Your head shall be my greatest piece of work in the curing of heads . 
Bassett smiled quietly to the old one's conceit , as the great carved log , drawn back through two score feet of space , was released . 
The next moment he was lost in ecstasy at the abrupt and thunderous liberation of sound . 
But such thunder ! Mellow it was with preciousness of all sounding metals . 
In that moment the interstices of matter were his , and the interfusings and intermating transfusings of matter and force . 
At the last Bassett was brought back from his ecstasy by an impatient movement of Ngurn . 
He had quite forgotten the old devil devil one . 
A quick flash of fancy brought a husky chuckle into Bassett's throat . 
His shot gun lay beside him in the litter . 
All he had to do , muzzle to head , was to press the trigger and blow his head into nothingness . 
But why cheat him ? was Bassett's next thought . 
Head hunting , cannibal beast of a human that was as much ape as human , nevertheless Old Ngurn had , according to his lights , played squarer than square . 
Ngurn was in himself a forerunner of ethics and contract , of consideration , and gentleness in man . 
No , Bassett decided it would be a ghastly pity and an act of dishonour to cheat the old fellow at the last . 
His head was Ngurn's , and Ngurn's head to cure it would be . 
He knew , without seeing , when the razor edged hatchet rose in the air behind him . 
And for that instant , ere the end , there fell upon Bassett the shadows of the Unknown , a sense of impending marvel of the rending of walls before the imaginable . 
Waikiki , Honolulu , MAY , . 
STORY THE HUSSY THERE are some stories that have to be true the sort that cannot be fabricated by a ready fiction reckoner . 
And by the same token there are some men with stories to tell who cannot be doubted . 
Such a man was Julian Jones . 
Although I doubt if the average reader of this will believe the story Julian Jones told me . 
So thoroughly am I convinced of its verity that I am willing , nay , eager , to invest capital in the enterprise and embark personally on the adventure to a far land . 
It was in the Australian Building at the Panama Pacific Exposition that I met him . 
I was standing before an exhibit of facsimiles of the record nuggets which had been discovered in the goldfields of the Antipodes . 
Knobbed , misshapen and massive , it was as difficult to believe that they were not real gold as it was to believe the accompanying statistics of their weights and values . 
That's what those kangaroo hunters call a nugget , boomed over my shoulder directly at the largest of the specimens . 
I turned and looked up into the dim blue eyes of Julian Jones . 
I looked up , for he stood something like six feet four inches in height . 
His hair , a wispy , sandy yellow , seemed as dimmed and faded as his eyes . 
It may have been the sun which had washed out his colouring at least his face bore the evidence of a prodigious and ardent sun burn which had long since faded to yellow . 
As his eyes turned from the exhibit and focussed on mine I noted a queer look in them as of one who vainly tries to recall some fact of supreme importance . 
What's the matter with it as a nugget ? I demanded . 
The remote , indwelling expression went out of his eyes as he boomed Why , its size . 
It does seem large , I admitted . 
But there's no doubt it's authentic . 
The Australian Government would scarcely dare Large ! he interrupted , with a sniff and a sneer . 
Largest ever discovered I started on . 
Ever discovered ! His dim eyes smouldered hotly as he proceeded . 
If a really big nugget , or nugget finder , elects to blush unseen But it didn't , he broke in quickly . 
I saw it with my own eyes , and , besides , I'm too tanned to blush anyway . 
I'm a railroad man and I've been in the tropics a lot . 
Was that nugget bigger than those in there , Mr. er ? Jones , Julian Jones is my name . 
Pleased to know you , sir , he said , extending his hand , his voice booming as if accustomed to loud noises or wide spaces . 
You're wrong , all wrong . 
You make the mistake of all Gringos in thinking a Mexican is a white man . 
None of them ain't Greasers , Spiggoties , Latin Americans and all the rest of the cattle . 
Why , sir , they don't think like we think , or reason , or act . 
Even their multiplication table is different . 
You think seven times seven is forty nine but not them . 
They work it out different . 
And white isn't white to them , either . 
Let me give you an example . 
Buying coffee retail for house keeping in one pound or ten pound lots How big was that nugget you referred to ? I queried firmly . 
As big as the biggest of those ? Bigger , he said quietly . 
Bigger than the whole blamed exhibit of them put together , and then some . 
He paused and regarded me with a steadfast gaze . 
I don't see no reason why I shouldn't go into the matter with you . 
You've got a reputation a man ought to be able to trust , and I've read you've done some tall skylarking yourself in out of the way places . 
I've been browsing around with an eye open for some one to go in with me on the proposition . 
You can trust me , I said . 
Well , he should have kept his appointment with me . 
There you go ! she shrilled . 
A trottin' right off and never givin' me a thought . 
I was formally introduced to her . 
It was patent that she had never heard of me , and she surveyed me bleakly with shrewd black eyes , set close together and as beady and restless as a bird's . 
You ain't goin' to tell him about that hussy ? she complained . 
Well , now , Sarah , this is business , you see , he argued plaintively . 
I've been lookin' for a likely man this long while , and now that he's shown up it seems to me I got a right to give him the hang of what happened . 
The small woman made no reply , but set her thin lips in a needle like line . 
She gazed straight before her at the Tower of Jewels with so austere an expression that no glint of refracted sunlight could soften it . 
We proceeded slowly to the lagoon , managed to obtain an unoccupied seat , and sat down with mutual sighs of relief as we released our weights from our tortured sightseeing feet . 
One does get so mortal weary , asserted the small woman , almost defiantly . 
Two swans waddled up from the mirroring water and investigated us . 
When their suspicions of our niggardliness or lack of peanuts had been confirmed , Jones half turned his back on his life partner and gave me his story . 
Ever been in Ecuador ? Then take my advice and don't . 
I was no sailor on her . 
But I'd made friends with the skipper at Newcastle an' come along as his guest for as far as Guayaquil . 
You see , I'd heard wages was 'way up on the American railroad runnin' from that place over the Andes to Quito . 
Now Guayaquil Is a fever hole , I interpolated . 
Thomas Nast died there of it within a month after he landed . 
He was our great American cartoonist , I added . 
Don't know him , Julian Jones said shortly . 
But I do know he wasn't the first to pass out by a long shot . 
Why , look you the way I found it . 
The pilot grounds is sixty miles down the river . 
'How's the fever ? said I to the pilot who came aboard in the early morning . 
'See that Hamburg barque , said he , pointing to a sizable ship at anchor . 
'Captain and fourteen men dead of it already , and the cook and two men dying right now , and they're the last left of her . 
And by jinks he told the truth . 
And right then they were dying forty a day in Guayaquil of Yellow Jack . 
But that was nothing , as I was to find out . 
Bubonic plague and small pox were raging , while dysentery and pneumonia were reducing the population , and the railroad was raging worst of all . 
For them that insisted in riding on it , it was more dangerous than all the other diseases put together . 
A launch came off for me from Duran , which is on the other side of the river and is the terminal of the railroad . 
And it brought off a man that soared up the gangway three jumps at a time he was that eager to get aboard . 
When he hit the deck he hadn't time to speak to any of us . 
And that was the railroad I was to work for . 
All of which was nothing to what he told me in the next few minutes . 
The road ran from sea level at Duran up to twelve thousand feet on Chimborazo and down to ten thousand at Quito on the other side the range . 
And it was so dangerous that the trains didn't run nights . 
The through passengers had to get off and sleep in the towns at night while the train waited for daylight . 
And each train carried a guard of Ecuadoriano soldiers which was the most dangerous of all . 
They were supposed to protect the train crews , but whenever trouble started they unlimbered their rifles and joined the mob . 
Which is their kind of arithmetic , which I told you a while back as being different from ours . 
Shucks ! Before the day was out I was to find out for myself that that ex conductor wasn't lying . 
It was over at Duran . 
I was to take my run on the first division out to Quito , for which place I was to start next morning only one through train running every twenty four hours . 
It was the afternoon of my first day , along about four o'clock , when the boilers of the GOVERNOR HANCOCK exploded and she sank in sixty feet of water alongside the dock . 
She was the big ferry boat that carried the railroad passengers across the river to Guayaquil . 
It was a bad accident , but it was the cause of worse that followed . 
By half past four , big trainloads began to arrive . 
It was a feast day and they'd run an excursion up country but of Guayaquil , and this was the crowd coming back . 
And the crowd there was five thousand of them wanted to get ferried across , and the ferry was at the bottom of the river , which wasn't our fault . 
But by the Spiggoty arithmetic , it was . 
'Kill the Gringos ! shouts one of them . 
And right there the beans were spilled . 
Most of us got away by the skin of our teeth . 
I raced on the heels of the Master Mechanic , carrying one of his babies for him , for the locomotives that was just pulling out . 
You see , way down there away from everywhere they just got to save their locomotives in times of trouble , because , without them , a railroad can't be run . 
We camped up country and didn't come back to clean up until next day . 
They'd burnt the round house , set fire to the coal bunkers , and made a scandal of the repair shops . 
Oh , yes , and there were three of our fellows they'd got that we had to bury mighty quick . 
It's hot weather all the time down there . 
Julian Jones came to a full pause and over his shoulder studied the straight before her gaze and forbidding expression of his wife's face . 
I ain't forgotten the nugget , he assured me . 
Nor the hussy , the little woman snapped , apparently at the mud hens paddling on the surface of the lagoon . 
I've been travelling toward the nugget right along There was never no reason for you to stay in that dangerous country , his wife snapped in on him . 
Now , Sarah , he appealed . 
I was working for you right along . 
And to me he explained The risk was big , but so was the pay . 
Some months I earned as high as five hundred gold . 
And here was Sarah waiting for me back in Nebraska An' us engaged two years , she complained to the Tower of Jewels . 
What of the strike , and me being blacklisted , and getting typhoid down in Australia , and everything , he went on . 
And luck was with me on that railroad . 
Why , I saw fellows fresh from the States pass out , some of them not a week on their first run . 
If the diseases and the railroad didn't get them , then it was the Spiggoties got them . 
But it just wasn't my fate , even that time I rode my engine down to the bottom of a forty foot washout . 
had their heads knifed off by the Spiggoties and paraded around on poles . 
Yes , I was lucky . 
The worst that happened to me was I caught a cold once , and another time had a carbuncle . 
But the other fellows ! They died like flies , what of Yellow Jack , pneumonia , the Spiggoties , and the railroad . 
The trouble was I didn't have much chance to pal with them . 
No sooner'd I get some intimate with one of them he'd up and die all but a fireman named Andrews , and he went loco for keeps . 
I made good on my job from the first , and lived in Quito in a 'dobe house with whacking big Spanish tiles on the roof that I'd rented . 
And I never had much trouble with the Spiggoties , what of letting them sneak free rides in the tender or on the cowcatcher . 
Sarah just can't bear to tolerate me speaking Spanish , he apologized . 
It gets so on her nerves that I promised not to . 
Now , Sarah , her towering giant of a husband begged , I just got to mention her or I can't tell about the nugget . 
It was one night when I was taking a locomotive no train down to Amato , about thirty miles from Quito . 
Seth Manners was my fireman . 
I was breaking him in to engineer for himself , and I was letting him run the locomotive while I sat up in his seat meditating about Sarah here . 
Lord ! If she could only a seen them . 
Positive frights , that's what they are , their faces painted white as corpses and their lips red as as some of the train wrecks I've helped clean up . 
It was a lovely April night , not a breath of wind , and a tremendous big moon shining right over the top of Chimborazo . 
The railroad skirted it twelve thousand feet above sea level , and the top of it ten thousand feet higher than that . 
Mebbe I was drowsing , with Seth running the engine but he slammed on the brakes so sudden hard that I darn near went through the cab window . 
'What the I started to yell , and 'Holy hell , Seth says , as both of us looked at what was on the track . 
And I agreed with Seth entirely in his remark . 
It was an Indian girl and take it from me , Indians ain't Spiggoties by any manner of means . 
Seth had managed to fetch a stop within twenty feet of her , and us bowling down hill at that ! But the girl . 
She I saw the form of Mrs. Julian Jones stiffen , although she kept her gaze fixed balefully upon two mud hens that were prowling along the lagoon shallows below us . 
The hussy ! she hissed , once and implacably . 
Jones had stopped at the sound , but went on immediately . 
She was wearing a slimpsy sort of garment wrapped around her that wasn't cloth but ocelot skins , soft and dappled , and silky . 
It was all she had on The hussy ! breathed Mrs. Jones . 
But Mr. Jones went on , making believe that he was unaware of the interruption . 
'Hell of a way to stop a locomotive , I complained at Seth , as I climbed down on to the right of way . 
I walked past our engine and up to the girl , and what do you think ? Her eyes were shut tight . 
She was trembling that violent that you would see it by the moonlight . 
And she was barefoot , too . 
'What's the row ? I said , none too gentle . 
She gave a start , seemed to come out of her trance , and opened her eyes . 
Say ! They were big and black and beautiful . 
Believe me , she was some looker The hussy ! At which hiss the two mud hens veered away a few feet . 
But Jones was getting himself in hand , and didn't even blink . 
'What are you stopping this locomotive for ? I demanded in Spanish . 
She stared at me , then at the snorting engine and then burst into tears , which you'll admit is uncommon behaviour for an Indian woman . 
, 'you'll be taking one smeared all over our cowcatcher and headlight , and it'll be up to my fireman to scrape you off . 
My Spiggoty Spanish wasn't much to brag on , but I could see she understood , though she only shook her head and wouldn't speak . 
Besides , I'm telling this . 
Next thing , Seth yells at me , 'Goin' to stay here all night ? 'Come on , I said to the girl , 'and climb on board . 
But next time you want a ride don't flag a locomotive between stations . 
She followed along but when I got to the step and turned to give her a lift up , she wasn't there . 
Not a sign of her . 
Above and below was sheer cliff , and the track stretched ahead a hundred yards clear and empty . 
And then I spotted her , crouched down right against the cowcatcher , that close I'd almost stepped on her . 
If we'd started up , we'd have run over her in a second . 
It was all so nonsensical , I never could make out her actions . 
Maybe she was trying to suicide . 
I grabbed her by the wrist and jerked her none too gentle to her feet . 
And she came along all right . 
Women do know when a man means business . 
I glanced from this Goliath to his little , bird eyed spouse , and wondered if he had ever tried to mean business with her . 
Seth kicked at first , but I boosted her into the cab and made her sit up beside me And I suppose Seth was busy running the engine , Mrs. Jones observed . 
I was breaking him in , wasn't I ? Mr. Jones protested . 
So we made the run into Amato . 
She'd never opened her mouth once , and no sooner'd the engine stopped than she'd jumped to the ground and was gone . 
Not a thank you kindly . 
'Huh ! she's adopted you , Seth grins . 
And it looked like it . 
'Go chase yourself ! I told her PRONTO . 
You see , Sarah , I'd no use for her , even at the start . 
Her lips moved soundlessly , but I knew to what syllables . 
And what made it hardest was Seth jeering at me . 
'You can't shake her that way , he said . 
'You saved her life 'I didn't , I said sharply 'it was you . 
'But she thinks you did , which is the same thing , he came back at me . 
'And now she belongs to you . 
Custom of the country , as you ought to know . 
Heathenish , said Mrs. Jones , and though her steady gaze was set upon the Tower of Jewels I knew she was making no reference to its architecture . 
'She's come to do light housekeeping for you , Seth grinned . 
I let him rave , though afterwards I kept him throwing in the coal too fast to work his mouth very much . 
What was I to do ? With no perceptible movement that I was aware of , Mrs. Jones advertised her certitude of knowledge of what SHE would have done . 
And the moment we pulled into Quito , she did what she'd done before vanished . 
Sarah never believes me when I say how relieved I felt to be quit of her . 
But it was not to be . 
I got to my 'dobe house and managed a cracking fine dinner my cook had ready for me . 
She was mostly Spiggoty and half Indian , and her name was Paloma . 
But she did make things comfortable , and she was some economical when it came to marketing . 
That afternoon , after a big long siesta , what'd I find in the kitchen , just as much at home as if she belonged there , but that blamed Indian girl . 
And I let loose right there and then . 
As Sarah knows , I never could a bear women around the house young , unmarried women , I mean . 
But it was no go ! Old Paloma sided with the girl , and said if the girl went she went , too . 
Also , she called me more kinds of a fool than the English language has accommodation for . 
You'd like the Spanish lingo , Sarah , for expressing yourself in such ways , and you'd have liked old Paloma , too . 
She was a good woman , though she didn't have any teeth and her face could kill a strong man's appetite in the cradle . 
, old Paloma never said why she stuck up for the girl . 
Anyway , Vahna was a quiet thing , never in the way . 
Just sat in doors jabbering with Paloma and helping with the chores . 
But I wasn't long in getting on to that she was afraid of something . 
She would look up , that anxious it hurt , whenever anybody called , like some of the boys to have a gas or a game of pedro . 
And then one day Vahna had a visitor . 
In the doorway stood an Indian boy . 
He looked like her , but was younger and slimmer . 
She took him into the kitchen and they must have had a great palaver , for he didn't leave until after dark . 
Inside the week he came back , but I missed him . 
When I got home , Paloma put a fat nugget of gold into my hand , which Vahna had sent him for . 
The blamed thing weighed all of two pounds and was worth more than five hundred dollars . 
She explained that Vahna wanted me to take it to pay for her keep . 
And I had to take it to keep peace in the house . 
Then , after a long time , came another visitor . 
We were sitting before the fire Him and the hussy , quoth Mrs. Jones . 
And Paloma , he added quickly . 
Him and his cook and his light housekeeper sitting by the fire , she amended . 
Well , as I was saying , she had another visitor . 
He was a lean , tall , white headed old Indian , with a beak on him like an eagle . 
He walked right in without knocking . 
Then , for a minute that seemed as long as a life time , she and the old fellow glared at each other . 
Paloma was the first to talk , in his own lingo , for he talked back to her . 
But great Moses , if he wasn't the high and mighty one ! Paloma's old knees were shaking , and she cringed to him like a hound dog . 
And all this in my own house ! I'd have thrown him out on his neck , only he was so old . 
He condescended to give me the once over and fired some question at Vahna . 
She hung her head , and looked foolish , and blushed , and then replied with a single word and a shake of the head . 
And with that he just naturally turned on his heel and beat it . 
I guess she'd said 'No . 
For some time after that Vahna used to fluster up whenever she saw me . 
Then she took to the kitchen for a spell . 
But after a long time she began hanging around the big room again . 
She was still mighty shy , but she'd keep on following me about with those big eyes of hers The hussy ! I heard plainly . 
But Julian Jones and I were pretty well used to it by this time . 
I don't mind saying that I was getting some interested myself oh , not in the way Sarah never lets up letting me know she thinks . 
That two pound nugget was what had me going . 
If Vahna'd put me wise to where it came from , I could say good bye to railroading and hit the high places for Nebraska and Sarah . 
And then the beans were spilled . 
Come a letter from Wisconsin . 
My Aunt Eliza 'd died and up and left me her big farm . 
But I didn't know , then and I prepared to pull back to God's country . 
Paloma got sore , and Vahna got the weeps . 
'Don't go ! Don't go ! That was her song . 
'Don't go , she says to me , with old Paloma nodding agreement with her . 
'I'll show you where my brother got the nugget , if you don't go . 
'Too late , said I. And I told her why . 
And told her about me waiting for you back in Nebraska , Mrs. Jones observed in cold , passionless tones . 
Now , Sarah , why should I hurt a poor Indian girl's feelings ? Of course I didn't . 
Well , she and Paloma talked Indian some more , and then Vahna says 'If you stay , I'll show you the biggest nugget that is the father of all other nuggets . 
'How big ? I asked . 
'As big as me ? She laughed . 
'Bigger than you , she says , 'much , much bigger . 
'They don't grow that way , I said . 
But she said she'd seen it and Paloma backed her up . 
Why , to listen to them you'd have thought there was millions in that one nugget . 
Paloma 'd never seen it herself , but she'd heard about it . 
A secret of the tribe which she couldn't share , being only half Indian herself . 
Julian Jones paused and heaved a sigh . 
And they kept on insisting until I fell for The hussy , said Mrs. Jones , pert as a bird , at the ready instant . 
What of Aunt Eliza's farm I was rich enough to quit railroading , but not rich enough to turn my back on big money and I just couldn't help believing them two women . 
Gee ! I could be another Vanderbilt , or J. P. Morgan . 
That's the way I thought and I started in to pump Vahna . 
But she wouldn't give down . 
'You come along with me , she says . 
'We can be back here in a couple of weeks with all the gold the both of us can carry . 
'We'll take a burro , or a pack train of burros , was my suggestion . 
And Paloma agreed with her . 
The Indians would catch us . 
The two of us pulled out when the nights were moonlight . 
We travelled only at night , and laid up in the days . 
Vahna wouldn't let me light a fire , and I missed my coffee something fierce . 
I know the general trend of our travel , because I carried a pocket compass and the general trend is all I need to get there again , because of that peak . 
There ain't another peak like it in the world . 
Now , I'm not telling you its particular shape , but when you and I head out for it from Quito I'll take you straight to it . 
It's no easy thing to climb , and the person doesn't live that can climb it at night . 
We had to take the daylight to it , and didn't reach the top till after sunset . 
Why , I could take hours and hours telling you about that last climb , which I won't . 
The top was flat as a billiard table , about a quarter of an acre in size , and was almost clean of snow . 
Vahna told me that the great winds that usually blew , kept the snow off of it . 
We were winded , and I got mountain sickness so bad that I had to stretch out for a spell . 
Then , when the moon come up , I took a prowl around . 
It didn't take long , and I didn't catch a sight or a smell of anything that looked like gold . 
And when I asked Vahna , she only laughed and clapped her hands . 
Meantime my mountain sickness tuned up something fierce , and I sat down on a big rock to wait for it to ease down . 
'Come on , now , I said , when I felt better . 
'Stop your fooling and tell me where that nugget is . 
'It's nearer to you right now than I'll ever get , she answered , her big eyes going sudden wistful . 
'All you Gringos are alike . 
Gold is the love of your heart , and women don't count much . 
That was no time to tell her about Sarah here . 
But Vahna seemed to shake off her depressed feelings , and began to laugh and tease again . 
'How do you like it ? she asked . 
'Like what ? 'The nugget you're sitting on . 
I jumped up as though it was a red hot stove . 
And all it was was a rock . 
I felt nay heart sink . 
Either she had gone clean loco or this was her idea of a joke . 
She gave me the hatchet and told me to take a hack at the boulder , which I did , again and again , for yellow spots sprang up from under every blow . 
The movement shot panic into the heart of a swan that had drawn nearer with amiably predatory designs . 
Its consequent abrupt retreat collided it with a stout old lady , who squealed and dropped her bag of peanuts . 
Jones sat down and resumed . 
Gold , I tell you , solid gold and that pure and soft that I chopped chips out of it . 
It had been coated with some sort of rain proof paint or lacquer made out of asphalt or something . 
No wonder I'd taken it for a rock . 
It was ten feet long , all of five feet through , and tapering to both ends like an egg . 
Take a look at this . 
From his pocket he drew and opened a leather case , from which he took an object wrapped in tissue paper . 
Unwrapping it , he dropped into my hand a chip of pure soft gold , the size of a ten dollar gold piece . 
I could make out the greyish substance on one side with which it had been painted . 
I chopped that from one end of the thing , Jones went on , replacing the chip in its paper and leather case . 
And lucky I put it in my pocket . 
For right at my back came one loud word more like a croak than a word , in my way of thinking . 
And there was that lean old fellow with the eagle beak that had dropped in on us one night . 
And there was about thirty Indians with him all slim young fellows . 
Vahna'd flopped down and begun whimpering , but I told her , 'Get up and make friends with them for me . 
'No , no , she cried . 
Good bye , AMIGO Here Mrs. Jones winced , and her husband abruptly checked the particular flow of his narrative . 
'Then get up and fight along with me , I said to her . 
She was some hellion , there on the top of the world , clawing and scratching tooth and nail a regular she cat . 
And I wasn't idle , though all I had was that hatchet and my long arms . 
But they were too many for me , and there was no place for me to put my back against a wall . 
When I come to , minutes after they'd cracked me on the head here , feel this . 
Removing his hat , Julian Jones guided my finger tips through his thatch of sandy hair until they sank into an indentation . 
It was fully three inches long , and went into the bone itself of the skull . 
In his hand he had a stone knife you know , a thin , sharp sliver of some obsidian like stuff same as they make arrow heads out of . 
I couldn't lift a hand , being held down , and being too weak besides . 
And well , anyway , that stone knife did for her , and me they didn't even do the honour of killing there on top their sacred peak . 
They chucked me off of it like so much carrion . 
And the buzzards didn't get me either . 
I can see the moonlight yet , shining on all those peaks of snow , as I went down . 
Why , sir , it was a five hundred foot fall , only I didn't make it . 
I went into a big snow drift in a crevice . 
, I found myself in a regular snow cave or tunnel caused by the water from the melting snow running along the ledge . 
In fact , the stone above actually overhung just beyond where I first landed . 
A few feet more to the side , either way , and I'd almost be going yet . 
It was a straight miracle , that's what it was . 
But I paid for it . 
It was two years and over before I knew what happened . 
All I knew was that I was Julian Jones and that I'd been blacklisted in the big strike , and that I was married to Sarah here . 
I didn't know anything in between , and when Sarah tried to talk about it , it gave me pains in the head . 
I mean my head was queer , and I knew it was queer . 
And then , sitting on the porch of her father's farmhouse back in Nebraska one moonlight evening , Sarah came out and put that gold chip into my hand . 
But everything that'd happened after that I'd clean forgotten . 
When Sarah said I was her husband , I wouldn't listen to her . 
Took all her family and the preacher that'd married us to convince me . 
Later on I wrote to Seth Manners . 
The railroad hadn't killed him yet , and he pieced out a lot for me . 
I'll show you his letters . 
I've got them at the hotel . 
One day , he said , making his regular run , I crawled out on to the track . 
I didn't stand upright , I just crawled . 
He took me for a calf , or a big dog , at first . 
I wasn't anything human , he said , and I didn't know him or anything . 
As near as I can make out , it was ten days after the mountain top to the time Seth picked me up . 
What I ate I don't know . 
, until they found out I was a man without a mind , and the railroad sent me back to Nebraska . 
At any rate , that's what Seth writes me . 
Of myself , I don't know . 
She corresponded with the railroad before they shipped me and all that . 
Mrs. Jones nodded affirmation of his words , sighed and evidenced unmistakable signs of eagerness to go . 
I ain't been able to work since , her husband continued . 
And I ain't been able to figure out how to get back that big nugget . 
Sarah's got money of her own , and she won't let go a penny He won't get down to THAT country no more ! she broke forth . 
But , Sarah , Vahna's dead you know that , Julian Jones protested . 
I don't know anything about anything , she answered decisively , except that THAT country is no place for a married man . 
Her lips snapped together , and she fixed an unseeing stare across to where the afternoon sun was beginning to glow into sunset . 
I gazed for a moment at her face , white , plump , tiny , and implacable , and gave her up . 
How do you account for such a mass of gold being there ? I queried of Julian Jones . 
A solid gold meteor that fell out of the sky ? Not for a moment . 
It was carried there by the Indians . 
Up a mountain like that and such enormous weight and size ! I objected . 
Just as easy , he smiled . 
I used to be stumped by that proposition myself , after I got my memory back . 
Now how in Sam Hill I used to begin , and then spend hours figuring at it . 
And then when I got the answer I felt downright idiotic , it was that easy . 
He paused , then announced They didn't . 
But you just said they did . 
They did and they didn't , was his enigmatic reply . 
Of course they never carried that monster nugget up there . 
What they did was to carry up its contents . 
He waited until he saw enlightenment dawn in my face . 
And then of course melted all the gold , or welded it , or smelted it , all into one piece . 
You know the first Spaniards down there , under a leader named Pizarro , were a gang of robbers and cut throats . 
They went through the country like the hoof and mouth disease , and killed the Indians off like cattle . 
You see , the Indians had lots of gold . 
And here , by the Lagoon of the Palace of Fine Arts , ended my acquaintance with Julian Jones . 
On my agreeing to finance the adventure , he promised to call on me at my hotel next morning with the letters of Seth Manners and the railroad , and conclude arrangements . 
But he did not call . 
That evening I telephoned his hotel and was informed by the clerk that Mr. Julian Jones and wife had departed in the early afternoon , with their baggage . 
Kohala , Hawaii , MAY , . 
STORY LIKE ARGUS OF THE ANCIENT TIMES IT was the summer of , and there was trouble in the Tarwater family . 
Grandfather Tarwater , after remaining properly subdued and crushed for a quiet decade , had broken out again . 
This time it was the Klondike fever . 
His first and one unvarying symptom of such attacks was song . 
One chant only he raised , though he remembered no more than the first stanza and but three lines of that . 
Ten years earlier he had lifted the chant , sung to the air of the Doxology , when afflicted with the fever to go gold mining in Patagonia . 
The multitudinous family had sat upon him , but had had a hard time doing it . 
The application of lawyers to John Tarwater was like the application of a mustard plaster . 
For , in his judgment , they were the gentry , more than any other , who had skinned him out of the broad Tarwater acres . 
So , at the time of his Patagonian fever , the very thought of so drastic a remedy was sufficient to cure him . 
He quickly demonstrated he was not crazy by shaking the fever from him and agreeing not to go to Patagonia . 
Also did he turn over the eight hundred dollars in bank that was the long saved salvage of his wrecked fortune . 
But for this the family found no cause for committal to the asylum , since such committal would necessarily invalidate what he had done . 
Grandfather is sure peeved , said Mary , his oldest daughter , herself a grandmother , when her father quit smoking . 
All he had retained for himself was a span of old horses , a mountain buckboard , and his one room in the crowded house . 
With his old horses it took all his time to make the two weekly round trips . 
And for ten years , rain or shine , he had never missed a trip . 
Nor had he failed once to pay his week's board into Mary's hand . 
Huh ! he confided to the ruined water wheel of the old Tarwater Mill , which he had built from the standing timber and which had ground wheat for the first settlers . 
Huh ! They'll never put me in the poor farm so long as I support myself . 
And without a penny to my name it ain't likely any lawyer fellows'll come snoopin' around after me . 
And we turned off at Fort Hall , where the Oregon emigration went north'ard , and swung south for Californy , was his way of concluding the narrative of that arduous journey . 
And Bill Ping and me used to rope grizzlies out of the underbrush of Cache Slough in the Sacramento Valley . 
There he goes now listen to him , said William Tarwater . 
Nobody at home , laughed Harris Topping , day labourer , husband of Annie Tarwater , and father of her nine children . 
The kitchen door opened to admit the old man , returning from feeding his horses . 
The song had ceased from his lips but Mary was irritable from a burnt hand and a grandchild whose stomach refused to digest properly diluted cows' milk . 
Now there ain't no use you carryin' on that way , father , she tackled him . 
The time's past for you to cut and run for a place like the Klondike , and singing won't buy you nothing . 
Just the same , he answered quietly . 
I bet I could go to that Klondike place and pick up enough gold to buy back the Tarwater lands . 
Old fool ! Annie contributed . 
You couldn't buy them back for less'n three hundred thousand and then some , was William's effort at squelching him . 
Then I could pick up three hundred thousand , and then some , if I was only there , the old man retorted placidly . 
Thank God you can't walk there , or you'd be startin' , I know , Mary cried . 
I used to have money , her father said humbly . 
Well , you ain't got any now so forget it , William advised . 
Them times is past , like roping bear with Bill Ping . 
There ain't no more bear . 
Just the same But Mary cut him off . 
Seizing the day's paper from the kitchen table , she flourished it savagely under her aged progenitor's nose . 
What do those Klondikers say ? There it is in cold print . 
Only the young and robust can stand the Klondike . 
It's worse than the north pole . 
And they've left their dead a plenty there themselves . 
You're forty years older 'n the oldest of them . 
John Tarwater did look , but his eyes strayed to other photographs on the highly sensational front page . 
And look at the photys of them nuggets they brought down , he said . 
A nice way to talk to your father , Old Man Tarwater censured mildly . 
My father'd have walloped the tar out of me with a single tree if I'd spoke to him that way . 
But you ARE crazy , father William began . 
Reckon you're right , son . 
And that's where my father wasn't crazy . 
The old man's been reading some of them magazine articles about men who succeeded after forty , Annie jibed . 
And why not , daughter ? he asked . 
And why can't a man succeed after he's seventy ? I was only seventy this year . 
And mebbe I could succeed if only I could get to the Klondike Which you ain't going to get to , Mary shut him off . 
Oh , well , then , he sighed , seein's I ain't , I might just as well go to bed . 
He stood up , tall , gaunt , great boned and gnarled , a splendid ruin of a man . 
His ragged hair and whiskers were not grey but snowy white , as were the tufts of hair that stood out on the backs of his huge bony fingers . 
He moved toward the door , opened it , sighed , and paused with a backward look . 
Just the same , he murmured plaintively , the bottoms of my feet is itching something terrible . 
Two things were unusual about this usual trip which he had made a thousand and forty times since taking the mail contract . 
He did not drive to Kelterville , but turned off on the main road south to Santa Rosa . 
Even more remarkable than this was the paper wrapped parcel between his feet . 
And at Santa Rosa , in a second hand clothes shop , he sold the suit outright for two dollars and a half . 
From the same obliging shopman he received four dollars for the wedding ring of his long dead wife . 
The span of horses and the wagon he disposed of for seventy five dollars , although twenty five was all he received down in cash . 
Also , of all unbelievable men to be in funds , he so found the town drunkard for whom he had bought many a drink in the old and palmy days . 
And from him John Tarwater borrowed a dollar . 
Finally , he took the afternoon train to San Francisco . 
A dozen days later , carrying a half empty canvas sack of blankets and old clothes , he landed on the beach of Dyea in the thick of the great Klondike Rush . 
The beach was screaming bedlam . 
Ten thousand tons of outfit lay heaped and scattered , and twice ten thousand men struggled with it and clamoured about it . 
Freight , by Indian back , over Chilcoot to Lake Linderman , had jumped from sixteen to thirty cents a pound , which latter was a rate of six hundred dollars a ton . 
And the sub arctic winter gloomed near at hand . 
That night he slept on the flats , five miles above Dyea , at the head of canoe navigation . 
Here the Dyea River became a rushing mountain torrent , plunging out of a dark canyon from the glaciers that fed it far above . 
Also , he beheld the little man stumble off the log and fall face downward in a quiet eddy where the water was two feet deep and proceed quietly to drown . 
It was no desire of his to take death so easily , but the flour on his back weighed as much as he and would not let him up . 
Thank you , old man , he said to Tarwater , when the latter had dragged him up into the air and ashore . 
While he unlaced his shoes and ran the water out , they had further talk . 
Next , he fished out a ten dollar gold piece and offered it to his rescuer . 
Old Tarwater shook his head and shivered , for the ice water had wet him to his knees . 
But I reckon I wouldn't object to settin' down to a friendly meal with you . 
Ain't had breakfast ? the little man , who was past forty and who had said his name was Anson , queried with a glance frankly curious . 
Nary bite , John Tarwater answered . 
Where's your outfit ? Ahead ? Nary outfit . 
Expect to buy your grub on the Inside ? Nary a dollar to buy it with , friend . 
Which ain't so important as a warm bite of breakfast right now . 
In Anson's camp , a quarter of a mile on , Tarwater found a slender , red whiskered young man of thirty cursing over a fire of wet willow wood . 
The mush was half cooked and mostly burnt , the bacon was charred carbon , and the coffee was unspeakable . 
Immediately the meal was wolfed down the three partners took their empty pack straps and headed down trail to where the remainder of their outfit lay at the last camp a mile away . 
And old Tarwater became busy . 
What had impressed him during the brief breakfast was the sort of awe in which Anson and Big Bill stood of Charles . 
Once , during the morning , while Anson took a breathing spell after bringing in another hundred pound pack , Tarwater delicately hinted his impression . 
You see , it's this way , Anson said . 
When we get to Lake Linderman , and the trees are chopped and whipsawed into planks , I'll boss the building of the boat . 
Big Bill is a logger and miner . 
So he'll boss getting out the logs and all mining operations . 
Most of our outfit's ahead . 
We went broke paying the Indians to pack that much of it to the top of Chilcoot . 
Our last partner is up there with it , moving it along by himself down the other side . 
His name's Liverpool , and he's a sailor . 
So , when the boat's built , he's the boss of the outfit to navigate the lakes and rapids to Klondike . 
And Charles this Mr. Crayton what might his speciality be ? Tarwater asked . 
When it comes to business and organization he's boss . 
Very lucky to get such a bunch of specialities into one outfit . 
More than luck , Anson agreed . 
It was all accident , too . 
Each of us started alone . 
We met on the steamer coming up from San Francisco , and formed the party . 
Well , I got to be goin' . 
Charles is liable to get kicking because I ain't packin' my share' just the same , you can't expect a hundred pound man to pack as much as a hundred and sixty pounder . 
Stick around and cook us something for dinner , Charles , on his next load in and noting the effects of the old man's handiness , told Tarwater . 
My goodness , the first cheerful and hearty like camp since we hit the beach , Big Bill remarked as he knocked out his pipe and began pulling off his shoes for bed . 
Kind of made things easy , boys , eh ? Tarwater queried genially . 
Well , then , I got a proposition , boys . 
You can take it or leave it , but just listen kindly to it . 
You're in a hurry to get in before the freeze up . 
Half the time is wasted over the cooking by one of you that he might be puttin' in packin' outfit . 
If I do the cookin' for you , you all'll get on that much faster . 
Also , the cookin' 'll be better , and that'll make you pack better . 
And I can pack quite a bit myself in between times , quite a bit , yes , sir , quite a bit . 
Big Bill and Anson were just beginning to nod their heads in agreement , when Charles stopped them . 
What do you expect of us in return ? he demanded of the old man . 
Oh , I leave it up to the boys . 
That ain't business , Charles reprimanded sharply . 
Well , it's this way You expect us to feed you all winter , eh ? Charles interrupted . 
No , siree , I don't . 
All I reckon is a passage to Klondike in your boat would be mighty square of you . 
You haven't an ounce of grub , old man . 
You'll starve to death when you get there . 
I've been feedin' some long time pretty successful , Old Tarwater replied , a whimsical light in his eyes . 
I'm seventy , and ain't starved to death never yet . 
Will you sign a paper to the effect that you shift for yourself as soon as you get to Dawson ? the business one demanded . 
Oh , sure , was the response . 
Again Charles checked his two partners' expressions of satisfaction with the arrangement . 
One other thing , old man . 
We're a party of four , and we all have a vote on questions like this . 
Young Liverpool is ahead with the main outfit . 
He's got a say so , and he isn't here to say it . 
What kind of a party might he be ? Tarwater inquired . 
He's a rough neck sailor , and he's got a quick , bad temper . 
Some turbulent , Anson contributed . 
And the way he can cuss is simply God awful , Big Bill testified . 
But he's square , Big Bill added . 
Anson nodded heartily to this appraisal . 
Well , boys , Tarwater summed up , I set out for Californy and I got there . 
And I'm going to get to Klondike . 
Ain't a thing can stop me , ain't a thing . 
I'm going to get three hundred thousand outa the ground , too . 
Ain't a thing can stop me , ain't a thing , because I just naturally need the money . 
I don't mind a bad temper so long's the boy is square . 
I'll take my chance , an' I'll work along with you till we catch up with him . 
Then , if he says no to the proposition , I reckon I'll lose . 
But somehow I just can't see 'm sayin' no , because that'd mean too close up to freeze up and too late for me to find another chance like this . 
And , as I'm sure going to get to Klondike , it's just plumb impossible for him to say no . 
Old John Tarwater became a striking figure on a trail unusually replete with striking figures . 
And , as he worked , ever he raised his chant with his age falsetto voice . 
None of the three men he had joined could complain about his work . 
True , his joints were stiff he admitted to a trifle of rheumatism . 
He moved slowly , and seemed to creak and crackle when he moved but he kept on moving . 
Last into the blankets at night , he was first out in the morning , so that the other three had hot coffee before their one before breakfast pack . 
And , between breakfast and dinner and between dinner and supper , he always managed to back trip for several packs himself . 
Sixty pounds was the limit of his burden , however . 
He could manage seventy five , but he could not keep it up . 
Once , he tried ninety , but collapsed on the trail and was seriously shaky for a couple of days afterward . 
Work ! On a trail where hard working men learned for the first time what work was , no man worked harder in proportion to his strength than Old Tarwater . 
Driven desperately on by the near thrust of winter , and lured madly on by the dream of gold , they worked to their last ounce of strength and fell by the way . 
Others , when failure made certain , blew out their brains . 
Work ! Old Tarwater could shame them all , despite his creaking and crackling and the nasty hacking cough he had developed . 
Early and late , on trail or in camp beside the trail he was ever in evidence , ever busy at something , ever responsive to the hail of Father Christmas . 
And , when he had wheezingly complied , they would arise under their loads , remark that it was real heartening , and hit the forward trail again . 
If ever a man worked his passage and earned it , Big Bill confided to his two partners , that man's our old Skeezicks . 
You bet , Anson confirmed . 
When we get to Dawson we're quit of him that's the agreement . 
We'd only have to bury him if we let him stay on with us . 
Besides , there's going to be a famine , and every ounce of grub'll count . 
Remember , we're feeding him out of our own supply all the way in . 
And if we run short in the pinch next year , you'll know the reason . 
Steamboats can't get up grub to Dawson till the middle of June , and that's nine months away . 
Well , you put as much money and outfit in as the rest of us , Big Bill conceded , and you've a say according . 
And I'm going to have my say , Charles asserted with increasing irritability . 
And it's lucky for you with your fool sentiments that you've got somebody to think ahead for you , else you'd all starve to death . 
I tell you that famine's coming . 
I've been studying the situation . 
Flour will be two dollars a pound , or ten , and no sellers . 
He blew across Chilcoot Pass , above timberline , in the first swirl of autumn snow . 
Father Christmas ! was the hail . 
Here , on the trail leading into Happy Camp , in the first sunshine of half a dozen days , Old Tarwater rested his pack against a huge boulder and caught his breath . 
Around this boulder the trail passed , laden men toiling slowly forward and men with empty pack straps limping rapidly back for fresh loads . 
Twice Old Tarwater essayed to rise and go on , and each time , warned by his shakiness , sank back to recover more strength . 
From around the boulder he heard voices in greeting , recognized Charles Crayton's voice , and realized that at last they had met up with Young Liverpool . 
Quickly , Charles plunged into business , and Tarwater heard with great distinctness every word of Charles' unflattering description of him and the proposition to give him passage to Dawson . 
A dam fool proposition , was Liverpool's judgment , when Charles had concluded . 
We only out fitted for four , not five . 
It's all right , Tarwater heard Charles assuring the other . 
The old codger agreed to leave the final decision to you when we caught up with you . 
All you've got to do is put your foot down and say no . 
And I'm to do the dirty work ? Liverpool complained , while Tarwater's heart sank . 
That's just about the size of it , Charles said . 
Then old Tarwater's heart uprose again as the air was rent by a cyclone of profanity , from the midst of which crackled sentences like Dirty skunks ! . 
See you in hell first ! . 
My mind's made up ! . 
Hell's fire and corruption ! . 
The old codger goes down the Yukon with us , stack on that , my hearty ! . 
Hard ? You don't know what hard is unless I show you ! . 
I'll bust the whole outfit to hell and gone if any of you try to side track him ! . 
Men broke their hearts and backs and wept beside the trail in sheer exhaustion . 
Across the lake , a mile above a roaring torrent , they located a patch of spruce and built their saw pit . 
Here , by hand , with an inadequate whipsaw , they sawed the spruce trunks into lumber . 
They worked night and day . 
Thrice , on the night shift , underneath in the saw pit , Old Tarwater fainted . 
By day he cooked as well , and , in the betweenwhiles , helped Anson in the building of the boat beside the torrent as the green planks came down . 
The wind shifted into the north and blew unending gales . 
In the mornings the weary men crawled from their blankets and in their socks thawed out their frozen shoes by the fire Tarwater always had burning for them . 
Ever arose the increasing tale of famine on the Inside . 
The last grub steamboats up from Bering Sea were stalled by low water at the beginning of the Yukon Flats hundreds of miles north of Dawson . 
In fact , they lay at the old Hudson Bay Company's post at Fort Yukon inside the Arctic Circle . 
Flour in Dawson was up to two dollars a pound , but no one would sell . 
Bonanza and Eldorado Kings , with money to burn , were leaving for the Outside because they could buy no grub . 
Miners' Committees were confiscating all grub and putting the population on strict rations . 
A man who held out an ounce of grub was shot like a dog . 
A score had been so executed already . 
And , under a strain which had broken so many younger men , Old Tarwater began to break . 
His cough had become terrible , and had not his exhausted comrades slept like the dead , he would have kept them awake nights . 
Also , he began to take chills , so that he dressed up to go to bed . 
When he had finished so dressing , not a rag of garment remained in his clothes bag . 
All he possessed was on his back and swathed around his gaunt old form . 
Gee ! said Big Bill . 
Next morning they planned to load and start , squarely into the teeth of the north , on their perilous traverse of half a thousand miles of lakes and rapids and box canyons . 
But before he went to bed that night , Young Liverpool was out over the camp . 
He returned to find his whole party asleep . 
Rousing Tarwater , he talked with him in low tones . 
Listen , dad , he said . 
You've got a passage in our boat , and if ever a man earned a passage you have . 
But you know yourself you're pretty well along in years , and your health right now ain't exciting . 
If you go on with us you'll croak surer'n hell . 
Now wait till I finish , dad . 
The price for a passage has jumped to five hundred dollars . 
I've been throwing my feet and I've hustled a passenger . 
He's an official of the Alaska Commercial and just has to get in . 
He's bid up to six hundred to go with me in our boat . 
Now the passage is yours . 
You sell it to him , poke the six hundred into your jeans , and pull South for California while the goin's good . 
You can be in Dyea in two days , and in California in a week more . 
What d'ye say ? Tarwater coughed and shivered for a space , ere he could get freedom of breath for speech . 
Son , he said , I just want to tell you one thing . 
I drove my four yoke of oxen across the Plains in Forty nine and lost nary a one . 
I drove them plumb to Californy , and I freighted with them afterward out of Sutter's Fort to American Bar . 
Now I'm going to Klondike . 
Ain't nothing can stop me , ain't nothing at all . 
I'm going to ride that boat , with you at the steering sweep , clean to Klondike , and I'm going to shake three hundred thousand out of the moss roots . 
That being so , it's contrary to reason and common sense for me to sell out my passage . 
But I thank you kindly , son , I thank you kindly . 
The young sailor shot out his hand impulsively and gripped the old man's . 
By God , dad ! he cried . 
You're sure going to go then . 
He looked with undisguised contempt across the sleepers to where Charles Crayton snored in his red beard . 
They don't seem to make your kind any more , dad . 
Into the north they fought their way , although old timers , coming out , shook their heads and prophesied they would be frozen in on the lakes . 
That the freeze up might come any day was patent , and delays of safety were no longer considered . 
For this reason , Liverpool decided to shoot the rapid stream connecting Linderman to Lake Bennett with the fully loaded boat . 
It was the custom to line the empty boats down and to portage the cargoes across . 
Even then many empty boats had been wrecked . 
But the time was past for such precaution . 
Climb out , dad , Liverpool commanded as he prepared to swing from the bank and enter the rapids . 
Old Tarwater shook his white head . 
I'm sticking to the outfit , he declared . 
It's the only way to get through . 
You see , son , I'm going to Klondike . 
If I stick by the boat , then the boat just naturally goes to Klondike , too . 
If I get out , then most likely you'll lose the boat . 
Well , there's no use in overloading , Charles announced , springing abruptly out on the bank as the boat cast off . 
Next time you wait for my orders ! Liverpool shouted ashore as the current gripped the boat . 
The famine news was graver than ever . 
In Dawson City a thousand men , with dog teams , were waiting the freeze up to come out over the ice . 
The trading companies could not fill their grub contracts , and partners were cutting the cards to see which should go and which should stay and work the claims . 
That settles it , Charles announced , when he learned of the action of the mounted police on the boundary . 
Old Man , you might as well start back now . 
Climb aboard ! Liverpool commanded . 
We're going to Klondike , and old dad is going along . 
A shift of gale to the south gave them a fair wind down Lake Bennett , before which they ran under a huge sail made by Liverpool . 
The heavy weight of outfit gave such ballast that he cracked on as a daring sailor should when moments counted . 
In stormy sunset and twilight they made the dangerous crossing of Great Windy Arm , wherein they beheld two other boat loads of gold rushers capsize and drown . 
At four in the morning , he aroused Charles . 
Old Tarwater , shiveringly awake , heard Liverpool order Crayton aft beside him at the steering sweep , and also heard the one sided conversation . 
Just listen , friend Charles , and keep your own mouth shut , Liverpool began . 
I want you to get one thing into your head and keep it there OLD DAD'S GOING BY THE POLICE . 
UNDERSTAND ? HE'S GOING BY . 
Now get this , and get it hard THERE AIN'T GOING TO BE ANY FALL DOWN ON THIS BLUFF If you think I'd give away on the old codger Charles began indignantly . 
You thought that , Liverpool checked him , because I never mentioned any such thing . 
Now get me and get me hard I don't care what you've been thinking . 
It's what you're going to think . 
We'll make the police post some time this afternoon , and we've got to get ready to pull the bluff without a hitch , and a word to the wise is plenty . 
If you think I've got it in my mind Charles began again . 
Look here , Liverpool shut him off . 
I don't know what's in your mind . 
I don't want to know . 
I want you to know what's in my mind . 
If there's any slip up , if old dad gets turned back by the police , I'm going to pick out the first quiet bit of landscape and take you ashore on it . 
And then I'm going to beat you up to the Queen's taste . 
Get me , and get me hard . 
It ain't going to be any half way beating , but a real , two legged , two fisted , he man beating . 
I don't expect I'll kill you , but I'll come damn near to half killing you . 
But what can I do ? Charles almost whimpered . 
Just one thing , was Liverpool's final word . 
You pray so hard that old dad gets by the police that he does get by . 
Go back to your blankets . 
Before they gained Lake Le Barge , the land was sheeted with snow that would not melt for half a year . 
Nor could they lay their boat at will against the bank , for the rim ice was already forming . 
Inside the mouth of the river , just ere it entered Lake Le Barge , they found a hundred storm bound boats of the argonauts . 
Out of the north , across the full sweep of the great lake , blew an unending snow gale . 
Three mornings they put out and fought it and the cresting seas it drove that turned to ice as they fell in board . 
While the others broke their hearts at the oars , Old Tarwater managed to keep up just sufficient circulation to survive by chopping ice and throwing it overboard . 
Each day for three days , beaten to helplessness , they turned tail on the battle and ran back into the sheltering river . 
By the fourth day , the hundred boats had increased to three hundred , and the two thousand argonauts on board knew that the great gale heralded the freeze up of Le Barge . 
Beyond , the rapid rivers would continue to run for days , but unless they got beyond , and immediately , they were doomed to be frozen in for six months to come . 
This day we go through , Liverpool announced . 
We turn back for nothing . 
And those of us that dies at the oars will live again and go on pulling . 
As day broke clear and cold , they entered the river , with behind them a sea of ice . 
Liverpool examined his aged passenger and found him helpless and almost gone . 
When he rounded the boat to against the rim ice to build a fire and warm up Tarwater inside and out , Charles protested against such loss of time . 
This ain't business , so don't you come horning in , Liverpool informed him . 
I'm running the boat trip . 
So you just climb out and chop firewood , and plenty of it . 
I'll take care of dad . 
You , Anson , make a fire on the bank . 
And you , Bill , set up the Yukon stove in the boat . 
Old dad ain't as young as the rest of us , and for the rest of this voyage he's going to have a fire on board to sit by . 
Night and day the rim ice grew , till , in quiet places , it extended out a hundred yards from shore . 
And Old Tarwater , with all his clothes on , sat by the stove and kept the fire going . 
Night and day , not daring to stop for fear of the imminent freeze up , they dared to run , an increasing mushiness of ice running with them . 
What ho , old hearty ? Liverpool would call out at times . 
Cheer O , Old Tarwater had learned to respond . 
Just break out that regular song of yours , old Forty Niner , was the invariable reply . 
At any rate , no matter what happened to them , Dawson would be relieved of their grub consuming presence . 
So to the Committee of Safety Charles went , privily to drop a flea in its ear concerning Tarwater's grubless , moneyless , and aged condition . 
Here , inside the Arctic Circle , Old Tarwater settled down to pass the long winter . 
Several hours' work a day , chopping firewood for the steamboat companies , sufficed to keep him in food . 
For the rest of the time there was nothing to do but hibernate in his log cabin . 
Warmth , rest , and plenty to eat , cured his hacking cough and put him in as good physical condition as was possible for his advanced years . 
Even before the first symptoms appeared on him , he was putting into practice his one prescription , namely , exercise . 
From the junk of the old trading post he resurrected a number of rusty traps , and from one of the steamboat captains he borrowed a rifle . 
Thus equipped , he ceased from wood chopping , and began to make more than a mere living . 
Nor was he downhearted when the scurvy broke out on his own body . 
Ever he ran his trap lines and sang his ancient chant . 
Nor could the pessimist shake his surety of the three hundred thousand of Alaskan gold he as going to shake out of the moss roots . 
But this ain't gold country , they told him . 
Gold is where you find it , son , as I should know who was mining before you was born , 'way back in Forty Nine , was his reply . 
What was Bonanza Creek but a moose pasture ? No miner'd look at it yet they washed five hundred dollar pans and took out fifty million dollars . 
Eldorado was just as bad . 
At the end of January came his disaster . 
Some powerful animal that he decided was a bob cat , managing to get caught in one of his smaller traps , dragged it away . 
A heavy snow fall put a stop midway to his pursuit , losing the trail for him and losing himself . 
Also , he was warmly clad and had a full matchbox . 
Further to mitigate his predicament , on the fifth day he killed a wounded moose that weighed over half a ton . 
Making his camp beside it on a spruce bottom , he was prepared to last out the winter , unless a searching party found him or his scurvy grew worse . 
But at the end of two weeks there had been no sign of search , while his scurvy had undeniably grown worse . 
Against his fire , banked from outer cold by a shelter wall of spruce boughs , he crouched long hours in sleep and long hours in waking . 
But the waking hours grew less , becoming semi waking or half dreaming hours as the process of hibernation worked their way with him . 
the sun that arose ever in rebirth next morning in the east , and that had become to man man's first symbol of immortality through rebirth . 
, was the near dusk of Death down into which he slowly ebbed . 
For him reality had ceased . 
Nor from within the darkened chamber of himself could reality recrudesce . 
His years were too heavy upon him , the debility of disease and the lethargy and torpor of the silence and the cold were too profound . 
Only from without could reality impact upon him and reawake within him an awareness of reality . 
Otherwise he would ooze down through the shadow realm of the unconscious into the all darkness of extinction . 
But it came , the smash of reality from without , crashing upon his ear drums in a loud , explosive snort . 
For twenty days , in a temperature that had never risen above fifty below , no breath of wind had blown movement , no slightest sound had broken the silence . 
He feebly slipped the large fur mitten lined with thickness of wool from his right hand . 
Upon trial he found the trigger finger too numb for movement . 
He shook himself together , and realized that for long , how long he did not know , he had bedded in the arms of Death . 
He spat , with definite intention , heard the spittle crackle in the frost , and judged it must be below and far below sixty below . 
Slowly Tarwater's brain reasoned to action . 
Here , in the vast alone , dwelt Death . 
Here had come two wounded moose . 
With the clearing of the sky after the great cold came on , he had located his bearings , and he knew that both wounded moose had trailed to him from the east . 
He moved slowly , but he moved in reality , girding himself with rifle , ammunition , matches , and a pack of twenty pounds of moose meat . 
Then , an Argus rejuvenated , albeit lame of both legs and tottery , he turned his back on the perilous west and limped into the sun arising , re birthing east . 
And when he stood among them he stood very still , without speech , while great tears welled out of his eyes . 
In less than a week Old Tarwater was up and limping about the housework of the cabin , cooking and dish washing for the five men of the creek . 
they were , tough and hard bitten , who had been buried so deeply inside the Circle that they did not know there was a Klondike Strike . 
The news he brought them was their first word of it . 
Three years before , they had prospected from the head reaches of the Koyokuk northward and clear across to the mouth of the Mackenzie on the Arctic Ocean . 
Here , on the whaleships , they had beheld their last white men and equipped themselves with the last white man's grub , consisting principally of salt and smoking tobacco . 
They hailed the advent of Tarwater with joy , never tired of listening to his tales of Forty Nine , and rechristened him Old Hero . 
Further , they saw no reason at all why he should not gather a rich treasure of gold from the ground . 
Well , boys , Old Tarwater answered , and thanking you kindly , all I can say is that a hundred thousand will do nicely , and very nicely , for a starter . 
Of course , I ain't goin' to stop till I get the full three hundred thousand . 
That's what I come into the country for . 
They laughed and applauded his ambition and reckoned they'd have to hunt a richer creek for him . 
And Old Hero reckoned that as the spring came on and he grew spryer , he'd have to get out and do a little snooping around himself . 
For all anybody knows , he said , pointing to a hillside across the creek bottom , the moss under the snow there may be plumb rooted in nugget gold . 
And , one day , when the thaw was in full swing , he crossed the stream and climbed to the bench . 
Exposed patches of ground had already thawed an inch deep . 
On one such patch he stopped , gathered a bunch of moss in his big gnarled hands , and ripped it out by the roots . 
The sun smouldered on dully glistening yellow . 
He shook the handful of moss , and coarse nuggets , like gravel , fell to the ground . 
It was the Golden Fleece ready for the shearing . 
Not entirely unremembered in Alaskan annals is the summer stampede of from Fort Yukon to the bench diggings of Tarwater Hill . 
At the first meal on the ocean going steamship out of St . 
Michaels , a waiter , greyish haired , pain ravaged of face , scurvy twisted of body , served him . 
Old Tarwater was compelled to look him over twice in order to make certain he was Charles Crayton . 
Got it bad , eh , son ? Tarwater queried . 
Just my luck , the other complained , after recognition and greeting . 
Only one of the party that the scurvy attacked . 
The other three are all at work and healthy , getting grub stake to prospect up White River this winter . 
Anson's earning twenty five a day at carpentering , Liverpool getting twenty logging for the saw mill , and Big Bill's getting forty a day as chief sawyer . 
I tried my best , and if it hadn't been for scurvy . 
Sure , son , you done your best , which ain't much , you being naturally irritable and hard from too much business . 
Now I'll tell you what . 
You ain't fit to work crippled up this way . 
I'll pay your passage with the captain in kind remembrance of the voyage you gave me , and you can lay up and take it easy the rest of the trip . 
And what are your circumstances when you land at San Francisco ? Charles Crayton shrugged his shoulders . 
Tell you what , Tarwater continued . 
There's work on the ranch for you till you can start business again . 
I could manage your business for you Charles began eagerly . 
No , siree , Tarwater declared emphatically . 
But there's always post holes to dig , and cordwood to chop , and the climate's fine . 
Tarwater arrived home a true prodigal grandfather for whom the fatted calf was killed and ready . 
But first , ere he sat down at table , he must stroll out and around . 
And sons and daughters of his flesh and of the law needs must go with him fulsomely eating out of the gnarled old hand that had half a million to disburse . 
He led the way , and no opinion he slyly uttered was preposterous or impossible enough to draw dissent from his following . 
A thought came to him that made him avert his face and blow his nose in order to hide the twinkle in his eyes . 
Still attended by the entire family , he strolled on to the dilapidated barn . 
He picked up an age weathered single tree from the ground . 
Remember that little conversation we had just before I started to Klondike ? Sure , William , you remember . 
You told me I was crazy . 
And I said my father'd have walloped the tar out of me with a single tree if I'd spoke to him that way . 
Aw , but that was only foolin' , William temporized . 
William come here , he commanded imperatively . 
No matter how reluctantly , William came . 
Observe , I ain't hitting you on the head . 
My father had a gosh wollickin' temper and never drew the line at heads when he went after tar . 
Don't jerk your elbows back that way ! You're likely to get a crack on one by accident . 
And just tell me one thing , William , son is there nary notion in your head that I'm crazy ? No ! William yelped out in pain , as he danced about . 
You ain't crazy , father of course you ain't crazy ! You said it , Old Tarwater remarked sententiously , tossing the single tree aside and starting to struggle into his coat . 
Now let's all go in and eat . 
Glen Ellen , California , SEPTEMBER , . 
STORY THE PRINCESS A FIRE burned cheerfully in the jungle camp , and beside the fire lolled a cheerful seeming though horrible appearing man . 
This was a hobo jungle , pitched in a thin strip of woods that lay between a railroad embankment and the bank of a river . 
But no hobo was the man . 
So deep sunk was he in the social abyss that a proper hobo would not sit by the same fire with him . 
A gay cat , who is an ignorant new comer on the Road , might sit with such as he , but only long enough to learn better . 
Even low down bindle stiffs and stew bums , after a once over , would have passed this man by . 
Even an alki stiff would have reckoned himself immeasurably superior . 
He was truly horrible appearing . 
He might have been sixty years of age he might have been ninety . 
His garments might have been discarded by a rag picker . 
A prodigious growth of whiskers , greyish dirty and untrimmed for years , sprouted from his face . 
This hirsute growth should have been white , but the season was summer and it had not been exposed to a rain shower for some time . 
What was visible of the face looked as if at some period it had stopped a hand grenade . 
One eye , of normal size , dim brown and misty , bulged to the verge of popping out , and as if from senility wept copiously and continuously . 
The other eye , scarcely larger than a squirrel's and as uncannily bright , twisted up obliquely into the hairy scar of a bone crushed eyebrow . 
And he had but one arm . 
On his face , in mild degree , was depicted sensuous pleasure as he lethargically scratched his ribs with his one hand . 
He pawed over his food scraps , debated , then drew a twelve ounce druggist bottle from his inside coat pocket . 
The bottle was full of a colourless liquid , the contemplation of which made his little eye burn brighter and quickened his movements . 
Picking up the tomato can , he arose , went down the short path to the river , and returned with the can filled with not nice river water . 
In the condensed milk can he mixed one part of water with two parts of fluid from the bottle . 
This colourless fluid was druggist's alcohol , and as such is known in tramp land as alki . 
Slow footsteps , coming down the side of the railroad embankment , alarmed him ere he could drink . 
Placing the can carefully upon the ground between his legs , he covered it with his hat and waited anxiously whatever impended . 
Out of the darkness emerged a man as filthy ragged as he . 
The new comer , who might have been fifty , and might have been sixty , was grotesquely fat . 
He was composed of bulges . 
His bulbous nose was the size and shape of a turnip . 
His eyelids bulged and his blue eyes bulged in competition with them . 
In many places the seams of his garments had parted across the bulges of body . 
His calves grew into his feet , for the broken elastic sides of his Congress gaiters were swelled full with the fat of him . 
He advanced with tentative caution , made sure of the harmlessness of the man beside the fire , and joined him . 
Hello , grandpa , the new comer greeted , then paused to stare at the other's flaring , sky open nostril . 
They ain't nothin' new in that line of chatter . 
Even the bulls hand it out to me . 
But you can still drink , I hope Fatty at the same time mollified and invited , with his one hand deftly pulling the slip knots that fastened his bundle . 
From within the bundle he brought to light a twelve ounce bottle of alki . 
Footsteps coming down the embankment alarmed him , and he hid the bottle under his hat on the ground between his legs . 
But the next comer proved to be not merely one of their own ilk , but likewise to have only one arm . 
So forbidding of aspect was he that greetings consisted of no more than grunts . 
Huge boned , tall , gaunt to cadaverousness , his face a dirty death's head , he was as repellent a nightmare of old age as ever Dore imagined . 
His toothless , thin lipped mouth was a cruel and bitter slash under a great curved nose that almost met the chin and that was like a buzzard's beak . 
His one hand , lean and crooked , was a talon . 
The beady grey eyes , unblinking and unwavering , were bitter as death , as bleak as absolute zero and as merciless . 
His presence was a chill , and Whiskers and Fatty instinctively drew together for protection against the unguessed threat of him . 
Watching his chance , privily , Whiskers snuggled a chunk of rock several pounds in weigh close to his hand if need for action should arise . 
Huh ! sneered the terrible one , with such dreadfulness of menace as to cause Whiskers and Fatty involuntarily to close their hands down on their cave man's weapons . 
Huh ! the other repeated , reaching his one talon into his side coat pocket with swift definiteness . 
A hell of a chance you two cheap bums 'd have with me . 
The talon emerged , clutching ready for action a six pound iron quoit . 
We ain't lookin' for trouble , Slim , Fatty quavered . 
Who in hell are you to call me 'Slim' ? came the snarling answer . 
One monica's as good as another , I find , at my time of life . 
And everybody hands it out to me anyway . 
And I need an umbrella when it rains to keep from getting drowned , an' all the rest of it . 
I ain't used to company don't like it , Slim growled . 
So if you guys want to stick around , mind your step , that's all , mind your step . 
He fished from his pocket a cigar stump , self evidently shot from the gutter , and prepared to put it in his mouth to chew . 
Then he changed his mind , glared at his companions savagely , and unrolled his bundle . 
Appeared in his hand a druggist's bottle of alki . 
Well , he snarled , I suppose I gotta give you cheap skates a drink when I ain't got more'n enough for a good petrification for myself . 
Almost a softening flicker of light was imminent in his withered face as he beheld the others proudly lift their hats and exhibit their own supplies . 
Here's some water for the mixin's , Whiskers said , proffering his tomato can of river slush . 
Stockyards just above , he added apologetically . 
But they say Huh ! Slim snapped short , mixing the drink . 
I've drunk worse'n stockyards in my time . 
Whiskers was the first to brazen it . 
I've sat in at many a finer drinking , he bragged . 
With the pewter , Slim sneered . 
With the silver , Whiskers corrected . 
Slim turned a scorching eye interrogation on Fatty . 
Beneath the salt , said Slim . 
Above it , came Fatty's correction . 
I was born above it , and I've never travelled second class . 
First or steerage , but no intermediate in mine . 
Yourself ? Whiskers queried of Slim . 
In broken glass to the Queen , God bless her , Slim answered , solemnly , without snarl or sneer . 
In the pantry ? Fatty insinuated . 
Simultaneously Slim reached for his quoit , and Whiskers and Fatty for their rocks . 
Now don't let's get feverish , Fatty said , dropping his own weapon . 
Let it be a real drinking , Whiskers approved . 
Let's get petrified , Slim agreed . 
My father done it did it , Fatty concurred and corrected , as old recollections exploded long sealed brain cells of connotation and correct usage . 
The other two nodded a descent from similar fathers , and elevated their tin cans of alcohol . 
But their English had improved . 
They spoke it correctly , while the argo of tramp land ceased from their lips . 
It's my constitution , Whiskers was explaining . 
Very few men could go through what I have and live to tell the tale . 
And I never took any care of myself . 
If what the moralists and the physiologists say were true , I'd have been dead long ago . 
And it's the same with you two . 
He broke off to mix another drink , and Fatty took up the tale . 
I should say so , I should say so , Fatty confirmed . 
And been loved by princesses at least I have . 
Go on and tell us about it , Whiskers urged . 
It must be known that I came of good family . 
What name ? Fatty queried . 
I did not seem quite to catch it . 
The name will serve as well as any . 
Both completed the handshake and glanced to Slim . 
Oh , well , while we're about it . 
Bruce Cadogan Cavendish , Slim growled morosely . 
Go on , Percival , with your princesses and the roofs of kings . 
Oh , I was a rare young devil , Percival obliged , after I played ducks and drakes at home and sported out over the world . 
And I was some figure of a man before I lost my shape polo , steeple chasing , boxing . 
I won medals at buckjumping in Australia , and I held more than several swimming records from the quarter of a mile up . 
Women turned their heads to look when I went by . 
And the Princess ! he resumed , with another kiss to the stars . 
She was as fine a figure of a woman as I was a man , as high spirited and courageous , as reckless and dare devilish . 
Lord , Lord , in the water she was a mermaid , a sea goddess . 
And when it came to blood , beside her I was parvenu . 
Her royal line traced back into the mists of antiquity . 
She was not a daughter of a fair skinned folk . 
Oh , there were no kinks in it , any more than were there kinks in the hair of her entire genealogy . 
For she was Polynesian , glowing , golden , lovely and lovable , royal Polynesian . 
And in the South Seas garnered a better vocabulary from the lexicon of Love , Percival was quick on the uptake . 
It was the island of Talofa , he went on , meaning love , the Isle of Love , and it was her island . 
She , my princess , was the only issue , her brother having been lost in their double canoe in a hurricane while coming up from a voyage to Samoa . 
And among the Polynesians the royal women have equal right with the men to rule . 
In fact , they trace their genealogies always by the female line . 
To this both Chauncey Delarouse and Bruce Cadogan Cavendish nodded prompt affirmation . 
He kissed his hand to her , sipped from his condensed milk can a man size drink of druggist's alcohol , and to her again kissed her hand . 
But she was coy , and ever she fluttered near to me but never near enough . 
When my arm went out to her to girdle her , presto , she was not there . 
I knew , as never before , nor since , the thousand dear and delightful anguishes of love frustrated but ever resilient and beckoned on by the very goddess of love . 
Some vocabulary , Bruce Cadogan Cavendish muttered in aside to Chauncey Delarouse . 
But Percival Delaney was not to be deterred . 
He kissed his pudgy hand aloft into the night and held warmly on . 
No fond agonies of rapture deferred that were not lavished upon me by my dear Princess , herself ever a luring delight of promise flitting just beyond my reach . 
Every sweet lover's inferno unguessed of by Dante she led me through . 
It was by my wrestling with the champions of Talofa that I first interested her . 
It was by my prowess at swimming that I awoke her . 
And it was by a certain swimming deed that I won from her more than coquettish smiles and shy timidities of feigned retreat . 
And to think I used to do that ! Percival Delaney paused a moment , a glimmer of awe on his rotund face , as he contemplated the mighty picture of his youth . 
Why , I've pulled out a squid with tentacles eight feet long , and done it under fifty feet of water . 
I could stay down four minutes . 
I've gone down , with a coral rock to sink me , in a hundred and ten feet to clear a fouled anchor . 
And I could back dive with a once over and go in feet first from eighty feet above the surface Quit it , delete it , cease it , Chauncey Delarouse admonished testily . 
That's what makes old blood leap again . 
Almost can I see her . 
Was she wonderful ? Percival Delaney kissed unutterable affirmation . 
I have said she was a mermaid . 
I know she swam thirty six hours before being rescued , after her schooner was capsized in a double squall . 
I have seen her do ninety feet and bring up pearl shell in each hand . 
As a woman she was ravishing , sublime . 
I have said she was a sea goddess . 
Mad I know I was mad for her . 
And at last , down , far down , I lost myself and reached for her . 
She eluded me like the mermaid she was , and I saw the laughter on her face as she fled . 
It was the old trick to escape a shark . 
And she worked it on me , rolling the water so that I could not see her . 
And when I came up , she was there ahead of me , clinging to the side of the canoe and laughing . 
Almost I would not be denied . 
But not for nothing was she a princess . 
She rested her hand on my arm and compelled me to listen . 
We should play a game , she said , enter into a competition for which should get the more squid , the biggest squid , and the smallest squid . 
Since the wagers were kisses , you can well imagine I went down on the first next dive with soul aflame . 
Never again in all my life have I dived for squid . 
Perhaps we were five fathoms down and exploring the face of the reefwall for lurking places of our prey , when it happened . 
I had found a likely lair and just proved it empty , when I felt or sensed the nearness of something inimical . 
There it was , alongside of me , and no mere fish shark . 
Fully a dozen feet in length , with the unmistakable phosphorescent cat's eye gleaming like a drowning star , I knew it for what it was , a tiger shark . 
Not ten feet to the right , probing a coral fissure with her squid stick , was the Princess , and the tiger shark was heading directly for her . 
My totality of thought was precipitated to consciousness in a single all embracing flash . 
And the man eater turned on me . 
You know the South Seas , and you know that the tiger shark , like the bald face grizzly of Alaska , never gives trail . 
The combat , fathoms deep under the sea , was on if by combat may be named such a one sided struggle . 
The Princess unaware , caught her squid and rose to the surface . 
The man eater rushed me . 
I fended him off with both hands on his nose above his thousand toothed open mouth , so that he backed me against the sharp coral . 
The scars are there to this day . 
Whenever I tried to rise , he rushed me , and I could not remain down there indefinitely without air . 
Whenever he rushed me , I fended him off with my hands on his nose . 
And I would have escaped unharmed , except for the slip of my right hand . 
Into his mouth it went to the elbow . 
His jaws closed , just below the elbow . 
You know how a shark's teeth are . 
Once in they cannot be released . 
They must go through to complete the bite , but they cannot go through heavy bone . 
But while he was doing this , I drove the thumb of my left hand , to the hilt into his eye orifice and popped out his eye . 
This did not stop him . 
The meat had maddened him . 
He pursued the gushing stump of my wrist . 
Half a dozen times I fended with my intact arm . 
But , at the same time , with my good arm , I thumbed out his remaining eye . 
Percival Delaney shrugged his shoulders , ere he resumed . 
From above , those in the canoe had beheld the entire happening and were loud in praise of my deed . 
To this day they still sing the song of me , and tell the tale of me . 
His pause was brief but significant . 
He completed the sentence and the tale by burying his face in the down tilted mouth of the condensed milk can and by gurgling the corrosive drink down his throat in thirsty gulps . 
After an appropriate pause , Chauncey Delarouse , otherwise Whiskers , took up the tale . 
Far be it from me to boast of no matter what place of birth I have descended from to sit here by this fire with such as . 
I may say , however , that I , too , was once a considerable figure of a man . 
I may add that it was horses , plus parents too indulgent , that exiled me out over the world . 
I may still wonder to query 'Are Dover's cliffs still white ? Huh ! Bruce Cadogan Cavendish sneered . 
Next you'll be asking 'How fares the old Lord Warden ? And I took every liberty , and vainly , with a constitution that was iron , Whiskers hurried on . 
I knew the worst too young . 
And now I know the worst too old . 
But there was a time , alas all too short , when I knew , the best . 
I , too , kiss my hand to the Princess of my heart . 
She was truly a princess , Polynesian , a thousand miles and more away to the eastward and the south from Delaney's Isle of Love . 
The natives of all around that part of the South Seas called it the Jolly Island . 
Their own name , the name of the people who dwelt thereon , translates delicately and justly into 'The Island of Tranquil Laughter . 
On the chart you will find the erroneous name given to it by the old navigators to be Manatomana . 
The seafaring gentry the round ocean around called it the Adamless Eden . 
And the missionaries for a time called it God's Witness so great had been their success at converting the inhabitants . 
As for me , it was , and ever shall be , Paradise . 
It was MY Paradise , for it was there my Princess lived . 
John Asibeli Tungi was king . 
He was full blooded native , descended out of the oldest and highest chief stock that traced back to Manua which was the primeval sea home of the race . 
Also was he known as John the Apostate . 
He lived a long life and apostasized frequently . 
Next he fell for the traders , who developed in him a champagne thirst , and he shipped off the Catholic priests to New Zealand . 
That was the time of the Blue Laws , but perhaps it was too rigorous for King John . 
In this he was aided and abetted by a renegade Fijian . 
The pioneer Wesleyan missionary he actually made prime minister , and what he did to the trading crowd was a caution . 
By this time he was getting old , and philosophic , and tolerant , and spiritually atavistic . 
All of which was lovely for the traders , and prosperity reigned . 
Of course , most of his subjects followed him back into heathen worship . 
Yet quite a sprinkling of Catholics , Methodists and Wesleyans remained true to their beliefs and managed to maintain a few squalid , one horse churches . 
But King John didn't mind , any more than did he the high times of the traders along the beach . 
Everything went , so long as the taxes were paid . 
All he insisted on was that these wandering religions should be self supporting and not feed a pennyworth's out of the royal coffers . 
And now the threads of my recital draw together in the paragon of female exquisiteness my Princess . 
Whiskers paused , placed carefully on the ground his half full condensed milk can with which he had been absently toying , and kissed the fingers of his one hand audibly aloft . 
She was the daughter of Queen Mamare . 
She was the woman wonderful . 
Unlike the Diana type of Polynesian , she was almost ethereal . 
She was all flower , and fire , and dew . 
Hers was the sweetness of the mountain rose , the gentleness of the dove . 
She was no mere sweet spirit ripe for the bosom of Abraham . 
All of exquisite deliciousness of woman was she . 
She was woman , all woman , to the last sensitive quivering atom of her And I ? I was a wastrel of the beach . 
The wildest was not so wild as I , the keenest not so keen , of all that wild , keen trading crowd . 
It was esteemed I played the stiffest hand of poker . 
I was the only living man , white , brown , or black , who dared run the Kuni kuni Passage in the dark . 
And on a black night I have done it under reefs in a gale of wind . 
Well , anyway , I had a bad reputation on a beach where there were no good reputations . 
I remember one , a calcined Scotchman from the New Hebrides . 
It was a great drinking . 
He died of it , and we laded him aboard ship , pickled in a cask of trade rum , and sent him back to his own place . 
A sample , a fair sample , of the antic tricks we cut up on the beach of Manatomana . 
And of all unthinkable things , what did I up and do , one day , but look upon the Princess to find her good and to fall in love with her . 
It was the real thing . 
I was as mad as a March hare , and after that I got only madder . 
Think of that ! Think of what a slip of a woman can do to a busy , roving man ! By the Lord Harry , it's true . 
Hear me ! I became converted . 
I tell you I reformed , and gave myself in passion and sincerity to a religious experience that has made me tolerant of all religion ever since . 
I discharged my best captain for immorality . 
So did I my cook , and a better never boiled water in Manatomana . 
For the same reason I discharged my chief clerk . 
And for the first time in the history of trading my schooners to the westward carried Bibles in their stock . 
I built a little anchorite bungalow up town on a mango lined street squarely alongside the little house occupied by Ebenezer Naismith . 
And I made him my pal and comrade , and found him a veritable honey pot of sweetnesses and goodnesses . 
And he was a man , through and through a man . 
And he died long after like a man , which I would like to tell you about , were the tale of it not so deservedly long . 
'Our poor church , she said to me , one night after prayer meeting . 
I had been converted only a fortnight . 
'It is so small its congregation can never grow . 
And King John , my hard hearted father , will not contribute a penny . 
Yet he has a big balance in the treasury . 
And Manatomana is not poor . 
Much money is made and squandered , I know . 
I hear the gossip of the wild ways of the beach . 
Less than a month ago you lost more in one night , gambling at cards , than the cost of the upkeep of our poor church for a year . 
And I told her it was true , but that it was before I had seen the light . 
I told her I had not tasted liquor since , nor turned a card . 
I told her that the roof would be repaired at once , by Christian carpenters selected by her from the congregation . 
But she was filled with the thought of a great revival that Ebenezer Naismith could preach she was a dear saint and she spoke of a great church , saying 'You are rich . 
You have many schooners , and traders in far islands , and I have heard of a great contract you have signed to recruit labour for the German plantations of Upolu . 
They say , next to Sweitzer , you are the richest trader here . 
I should love to see some use of all this money placed to the glory of God . 
It would be a noble thing to do , and I should be proud to know the man who would do it . 
I told her that Ebenezer Naismith would preach the revival , and that I would build a church great enough in which to house it . 
'As big as the Catholic church ? she asked . 
'But it will take money , I explained . 
'And it takes time to make money . 
'You have much , she said . 
'Some say you have more money than my father , the King . 
'I have more credit , I explained . 
'But you do not understand money . 
It takes money to have credit . 
So , with the money I have , and the credit I have , I will work to make more money and credit , and the church shall be built . 
Work ! I was a surprise to myself . 
It is an amazement , the amount of time a man finds on his hands after he's given up carousing , and gambling , and all the time eating diversions of the beach . 
And I didn't waste a second of all my new found time . 
Instead I worked it overtime . 
I did the work of half a dozen men . 
My captains made faster runs than ever and earned bigger bonuses , as did my supercargoes , who saw to it that my schooners did not loaf and dawdle along the way . 
And I saw to it that my supercargoes did see to it . 
And good ! By the Lord Harry I was so good it hurt . 
My conscience got so expansive and fine strung it lamed me across the shoulders to carry it around with me . 
Why , I even went back over my accounts and paid Sweitzer fifty quid I'd jiggered him out of in a deal in Fiji three years before . 
And I compounded the interest as well . 
Work ! I planted sugar cane the first commercial planting on Manatomana . 
I ran in cargoes of kinky heads from Malaita , which is in the Solomons , till I had twelve hundred of the blackbirds putting in cane . 
And I sent a schooner clear to Hawaii to bring back a dismantled sugar mill and a German who said he knew the field end of cane . 
And he did , and he charged me three hundred dollars screw a month , and I took hold of the mill end . 
I installed the mill myself , with the help of several mechanics I brought up from Queensland . 
Of course there was a rival . 
He was the very highest chief blood next to King John's . 
He was full native , a strapping , handsome man , with a glowering way of showing his dislikes . 
He certainly glowered at me when I began hanging around the palace . 
He went back in my history and circulated the blackest tales about me . 
The worst of it was that most of them were true . 
He challenged me to fight , and I kept off of him . 
He threatened me , and I learned in the nick of time of his plan to have me knocked on the head . 
You see , he wanted the Princess just as much as I did , and I wanted her more . 
She used to play the piano . 
So did I , once . 
But I never let her know after I'd heard her play the first time . 
And she thought her playing was wonderful , the dear , fond girl ! You know the sort , the mechanical one two three tum tum tum school girl stuff . 
And now I'll tell you something funnier . 
Her playing WAS wonderful to me . 
The gates of heaven opened to me when she played . 
Why , this idea she had of her fine playing was the one flaw in her deliciousness of perfection , and I loved her for it . 
It kind of brought her within my human reach . 
Why , when she played her one two three , tum tum tum , I was in the seventh heaven of bliss . 
My weariness fell from me . 
I loved her , and my love for her was clean as flame , clean as my love for God . 
And do you know , into my fond lover's fancy continually intruded the thought that God in most ways must look like her . 
That's right , Bruce Cadogan Cavendish , sneer as you like . 
But I tell you that's love that I've been describing . 
It's the realest , purest , finest thing that can happen to a man . 
And I know what I'm talking about . 
The cane , he resumed , wiping his prodigious mat of face hair with the back of his hand . 
It matured in sixteen months in that climate , and I was ready , just ready and no more , with the mill for the grinding . 
I had my troubles the first several days . 
If it wasn't one thing the matter with the mill , it was another . 
On the fourth day , Ferguson , my engineer , had to shut down several hours in order to remedy his own troubles . 
I was bothered by the feeder . 
pour cream of lime on the rollers to keep everything sweet , I sent them out to join the cane cutting squads . 
And , the rollers now white from the lime , I'd just seen what was wrong . 
The rollers were not in plumb . 
One side crushed the cane well , but the other side was too open . 
I shoved my fingers in on that side . 
The big , toothed cogs on the rollers did not touch my fingers . 
And yet , suddenly , they did . 
With the grip of ten thousand devils , my finger tips were caught , drawn in , and pulped to well , just pulp . 
And , like a slick of cane , I had started on my way . 
There was no stopping me . 
Ten thousand horses could not have pulled me back . 
There was nothing to stop me . 
Hand , arm , shoulder , head , and chest , down to the toes of me , I was doomed to feed through . 
It hurt so much it did not hurt me at all . 
Then the beauty of the situation dawned on him , and he chuckled and grinned . 
No , I didn't expect anything of him . 
Hadn't he tried to knock me on the head ? What could he do anyway ? He didn't know anything about engines . 
I yelled at the top of my lungs to Ferguson to shut off the engine , but the roar of the machinery drowned my voice . 
And there I stood , up to the elbow and feeding right on in . 
Yes , it did hurt . 
There were some astonishing twinges when special nerves were shredded and dragged out by the roots . 
But I remember that I was surprised at the time that it did not hurt worse . 
Motomoe made a movement that attracted my attention . 
At the same time he growled out loud , as if he hated himself , 'I'm a fool . 
What he had done was to pick up a cane knife you know the kind , as big as a machete and as heavy . 
And I was grateful to him in advance for putting me out of my misery . 
So I was grateful , as I bent my head to the blow . 
'Get your head out of the way , you idiot ! he barked at me . 
And then I understood and obeyed . 
Yes , the sugar paid enormously and I built for the Princess the church of her saintly dream , and . 
He partly assuaged his thirst , and uttered his final word . 
Alackaday ! Shuttlecock and battle dore . 
And this at , the end of it all , lined with boilerplate that even alcohol will not corrode and that only alcohol will tickle . 
Fatty pledged him sympathetically , and sympathetically drank out of his own small can . 
Bruce Cadogan Cavendish glared into the fire with implacable bitterness . 
He was a man who preferred to drink by himself . 
Across the thin lips that composed the cruel slash of his mouth played twitches of mockery that caught Fatty's eye . 
And Fatty , making sure first that his rock chunk was within reach , challenged . 
Well , how about yourself , Bruce Cadogan Cavendish ? It's your turn . 
The other lifted bleak eyes that bored into Fatty's until he physically betrayed uncomfortableness . 
I've lived a hard life , Slim grated harshly . 
What do I know about love passages ? No man of your build and make up could have escaped them , Fatty wheedled . 
And what of it ? Slim snarled . 
It's no reason for a gentleman to boast of amorous triumphs . 
Oh , go on , be a good fellow , Fatty urged . 
We've still some drink left . 
Delarouse and I have contributed our share . 
It isn't often that three real ones like us get together for a telling . 
He sighed , and put back the quoit . 
Very well , if you will have it , he surrendered with manifest reluctance . 
Like you two , I have had a remarkable constitution . 
And right now , speaking of armour plate lining , I could drink the both of you down when you were at your prime . 
Like you two , my beginnings were far distant and different . 
That I am marked with the hall mark of gentlehood there is no discussion . 
unless either of you care to discuss the matter now . 
His one hand slipped into his pocket and clutched the quoit . 
Neither of his auditors spoke nor betrayed any awareness of his menace . 
But first I must tell you of how I got to Tagalag . 
The one hand of Bruce Cadogan Cavendish flashed pocketward and flashed back with the quoit balanced ripe for business . 
I have quite forgotten what I was going to say . 
Beastly funny country over that way , the narrator drawled with perfect casualness . 
You've read this Sea Wolf stuff You weren't the Sea Wolf , Whiskers broke in with involuntary positiveness . 
No , sir , was the snarling answer . 
The Sea Wolf's dead , isn't he ? And I'm still alive , aren't I ? Of course , of course , Whiskers conceded . 
He suffocated head first in the mud off a wharf in Victoria a couple of years back . 
As I was saying and I don't like interruptions , Bruce Cadogan Cavendish proceeded , it's a beastly funny country over that way . 
I was at Taki Tiki , a low island that politically belongs to the Solomons , but that geologically doesn't at all , for the Solomons are high islands . 
The scum of the scrapings of the bottom of the human pit , biologically speaking , resides in Taka Tiki . 
And I know the bottom and whereof I speak . 
Why , even in Fiji the Lotu was having a hard time of it and the chiefs still eating long pig . 
At sight of an irritable movement , he added You see , I never got over to the West like Delarouse and you . 
Heads are valuable , especially a white man's head . 
They decorate the canoe houses and devil devil houses with them . 
Each village runs a jack pot , and everybody antes . 
Whoever brings in a white man's head takes the pot . 
If there aren't openers for a long time , the pot grows to tremendous proportions . 
Beastly funny , isn't it ? I know . 
Didn't a Holland mate die on me of blackwater ? And didn't I win a pot myself ? It was this way . 
We were lying at Lango lui at the time . 
I never let on , and arranged the affair with Johnny , my boat steerer . 
He was a kinky head himself from Port Moresby . 
He cut the dead mate's head off and sneaked ashore in the might , while I whanged away with my rifle as if I were trying to get him . 
He opened the pot with the mate's head , and got it , too . 
Of course , next day I sent in a landing boat , with two covering boats , and fetched him off with the loot . 
How big was the pot ? Whiskers asked . 
I heard of a pot at Orla worth eighty quid . 
To commence with , Slim answered , there were forty fat pigs , each worth a fathom of prime shell money , and shell money worth a quid a fathom . 
That was two hundred dollars right there . 
There were ninety eight fathoms of shell money , which is pretty close to five hundred in itself . 
And there were twenty two gold sovereigns . 
I split it four ways one fourth to Johnny , one fourth to the ship , one fourth to me as owner , and one fourth to me as skipper . 
He'd never had so much wealth all at one time in his life . 
Besides , I gave him a couple of the mate's old shirts . 
And I fancy the mate's head is still there decorating the canoe house . 
Not exactly Christian burial of a Christian , Whiskers observed . 
But a lucrative burial , Slim retorted . 
I had to feed the rest of the mate over side to the sharks for nothing . 
Think of feeding an eight hundred dollar head along with it . 
It would have been criminal waste and stark lunacy . 
Well , anyway , it was all beastly funny , over there to the westward . 
The MERRY MIST was my schooner's name , and I had thought she was stoutly built until she hit that typhoon . 
I never saw such seas . 
They pounded that stout craft to pieces , literally so . 
The sticks were jerked out of her , deckhouses splintered to match wood , rails ripped off , and , after the worst had passed , the covering boards began to go . 
We just managed to repair what was left of one boat and keep the schooner afloat only till the sea went down barely enough to get away . 
And we outfitted that boat in a hurry . 
The carpenter and I were the last , and we had to jump for it as he went down . 
There were only four of us Lost all the niggers ? Whiskers inquired . 
Some of them swam for some time , Slim replied . 
But I don't fancy they made the land . 
We were ten days' in doing it . 
And we had a spanking breeze most of the way . 
And what do you think we had in the boat with us ? Cases of square face gin and cases of dynamite . 
Funny , wasn't it ? Well , it got funnier later on . 
Oh , there was a small beaker of water , a little salt horse , and some salt water soaked sea biscuit enough to keep us alive to Tagalag . 
Now Tagalag is the disappointingest island I've ever beheld . 
It shows up out of the sea so as you can make its fall twenty miles off . 
It is a volcano cone thrust up out of deep sea , with a segment of the crater wall broken out . 
This gives sea entrance to the crater itself , and makes a fine sheltered harbour . 
The outside and the inside of the crater are too steep . 
At one place , inside , is a patch of about a thousand coconut palms . 
And that's all , as I said , saving a few insects . 
No four legged thing , even a rat , inhabits the place . 
And it's funny , most awful funny , with all those coconuts , not even a coconut crab . 
The only meat food living was schools of mullet in the harbour fattest , finest , biggest mullet I ever laid eyes on . 
And the four of us landed on the little beach and set up housekeeping among the coconuts with a larder full of dynamite and square face . 
Why don't you laugh ? It's funny , I tell you . 
Holland gin and straight coconut diet . 
I've never been able to look a confectioner's window in the face since . 
Funny ? It must make the devil scream . 
You know , straight coconut is what the agriculturists call an unbalanced ration . 
It certainly unbalanced our digestions . 
We got so that whenever hunger took an extra bite at us , we took another drink of gin . 
After a couple of weeks of it , Olaf , a squarehead sailor , got an idea . 
It dawned on me that he was going to shoot fish if there were any about but the sun was beastly hot , and I just reclined there and hoped he'd have luck . 
About half an hour after he disappeared we heard the explosion . 
But he didn't come back . 
We waited till the cool of sunset , and down on the beach found what had become of him . 
The boat was there all right , grounded by the prevailing breeze , but there was no Olaf . 
He would never have to eat coconut again . 
We went back , shakier than ever , and cracked another square face . 
It was the same programme as the day before . 
After a while we heard the explosion and at twilight went down to the boat , from which we scraped enough of the cook for a funeral . 
The carpenter and I stuck it out two days more , then we drew straws for it and it was his turn . 
We parted with harsh words for he wanted to take a square face along to refresh himself by the way , while I was set against running any chance of wasting the gin . 
Besides , he had more than he could carry then , and he wobbled and staggered as he walked . 
Same thing , only there was a whole lot of him left for me to bury , because he'd prepared only half a stick . 
I managed to last it out till next day , when , after duly fortifying myself , I got sufficient courage to tackle the dynamite . 
I used only a third of a stick you know , short fuse , with the end split so as to hold the head of a safety match . 
That's where I mended my predecessors' methods . 
Not using the match head , they'd too long fuses . 
Therefore , when they spotted a school of mullet and lighted the fuse , they had to hold the dynamite till the fuse burned short before they threw it . 
If they threw it too soon , it wouldn't go off the instant it hit the water , while the splash of it would frighten the mullet away . 
At any rate , I still maintain mine was the safer method . 
I picked up a school of mullet before I'd been rowing five minutes . 
Fine big fat ones they were , and I could smell them over the fire . 
When I stood up , fire stick in one hand , dynamite stick in the other , my knees were knocking together . 
Twice I failed to touch the fire stick to the dynamite . 
Then I did , heard the match head splutter , and let her go . 
Now I don't know what happened to the others , but I know what I did . 
Did you ever stem a strawberry and throw the strawberry away and pop the stem into your mouth ? That's what I did . 
I threw the fire stick into the water after the mullet and held on to the dynamite . 
And my arm went off with the stick when it went off . 
Slim investigated the tomato can for water to mix himself a drink , but found it empty . 
Heigh ho , he yawned , and started down the path to the river . 
In several minutes he was back . 
He mixed the due quantity of river slush with the alcohol , took a long , solitary drink , and stared with bitter moodiness into the fire . 
What happened then ? Oh , sad Slim . 
Then the princess married me , of course . 
But you were the only person left , and there wasn't any princess . 
Whiskers cried out abruptly , and then let his voice trail away to embarrassed silence . 
Slim stared unblinkingly into the fire . 
Percival Delaney and Chauncey Delarouse looked at each other . 
Quietly , in solemn silence , each with his one arm aided the one arm of the other in rolling and tying his bundle . 
And in silence , bundles slung on shoulders , they went away out of the circle of firelight . 
Not until they reached the top of the railroad embankment did they speak . 
No gentleman would have done it , said Whiskers . 
No gentleman would have done it , Fatty agreed . 
Glen Ellen , California , SEPTEMBER , . 
