The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Reef , by Edith Wharton BOOK I I Unexpected obstacle . 
Please don't come till thirtieth . 
Please don't come till thirtieth . 
would be good ! But it was that very certainty which chilled him . 
Their evening together had been a long confirmation of this feeling . 
She had talked to him , shyly yet frankly , of what had happened to her during the years when they had so strangely failed to meet . 
A porter , stumbling against Darrow's bags , roused him to the fact that he still obstructed the platform , inert and encumbering as his luggage . 
As the fierce wind shouldered him , building up a crystal wall against his efforts , he felt anew the derision of his case . 
Nasty weather to cross , sir , the porter threw back at him as they beat their way down the narrow walk to the pier . 
Nasty weather , indeed but luckily , as it had turned out , there was no earthly reason why Darrow should cross . 
While he pushed on in the wake of his luggage his thoughts slipped back into the old groove . 
Now he concluded that there had probably been none . 
Mrs. Leath's words gave no hint of her husband's having failed to justify her choice but her very reticence betrayed her . 
This fact immensely increased Darrow's impression that his meeting with her had annihilated the intervening years . 
She , who was always so elusive and inaccessible , had grown suddenly communicative and kind had opened the doors of her past , and tacitly left him to draw his own conclusions . 
As a result , he had taken leave of her with the sense that he was a being singled out and privileged , to whom she had entrusted something precious to keep . 
Their next meeting had prolonged and deepened the impression . 
They had found each other again , a few days later , in an old country house full of books and pictures , in the soft landscape of southern England . 
Mrs. Leath , on this occasion , was no less kind than before but she contrived to make him understand that what was so inevitably coming was not to come too soon . 
It was not that she showed any hesitation as to the issue , but rather that she seemed to wish not to miss any stage in the gradual reflowering of their intimacy . 
Darrow , for his part , was content to wait if she wished it . 
She was not in the garden , but beyond it he had seen her approaching down a long shady path . 
She did not waver or turn aside he knew she would come straight to where he stood but something in her eyes said Wait , and again he obeyed and waited . 
On the fourth day an unexpected event threw out his calculations . 
Summoned to town by the arrival in England of her husband's mother , she left without giving Darrow the chance he had counted on , and he cursed himself for a dilatory blunderer . 
Still , his disappointment was tempered by the certainty of being with her again before she left for France and they did in fact see each other in London . 
There , however , the atmosphere had changed with the conditions . 
It was perhaps the shadow of this lady's presence pervasive even during her actual brief eclipses that subdued and silenced Mrs. Leath . 
Now , in the rattle of the wind about his ears , Darrow continued to hear the mocking echo of her message Unexpected obstacle . 
Please don't come till thirtieth . 
Not the shadow of an excuse or a regret not even the perfunctory have written with which it is usual to soften such blows . 
She didn't want him , and had taken the shortest way to tell him so . 
Even in his first moment of exasperation it struck him as characteristic that she should not have padded her postponement with a fib . 
Certainly her moral angles were not draped ! If I asked her to marry me , she'd have refused in the same language . 
But thank heaven I haven't ! he reflected . 
These considerations , which had been with him every yard of the way from London , reached a climax of irony as he was drawn into the crowd on the pier . 
Admitting the sex's traditional right to change , she might at least have advised him of hers by telegraphing directly to his rooms . 
Half way down the pier the prod of an umbrella increased his exasperation by rousing him to the fact that it was raining . 
Instantly the narrow ledge became a battle ground of thrusting , slanting , parrying domes . 
The wind rose with the rain , and the harried wretches exposed to this double assault wreaked on their neighbours the vengeance they could not take on the elements . 
Darrow , whose healthy enjoyment of life made him in general a good traveller , tolerant of agglutinated humanity , felt himself obscurely outraged by these promiscuous contacts . 
It was as though all the people about him had taken his measure and known his plight as though they were contemptuously bumping and shoving him like the inconsiderable thing he had become . 
She doesn't want you , doesn't want you , doesn't want you , their umbrellas and their elbows seemed to say . 
Darrow caught the umbrella , lowered its inverted ribs , and looked up at the face it exposed to him . 
Wait a minute , he said you can't stay here . 
As he spoke , a surge of the crowd drove the owner of the umbrella abruptly down on him . 
Its possessor had dropped her bag and bundles to clutch at the tattered umbrella . 
I bought it only yesterday at the Stores and yes it's utterly done for ! she lamented . 
Darrow smiled at the intensity of her distress . 
The offer caused the young lady to look at him more intently . 
Why , it's Mr. Darrow ! she exclaimed and then , all radiant recognition Oh , thank you ! We'll share it , if you will . 
You've lost a trunk ? Let me see if I can find it . 
This made him answer , as if to give substance to his plans by discussing them I don't actually know that I'm going over . 
Not going over ? Well . 
perhaps not by this boat . 
Again he felt a stealing indecision . 
I may probably have to go back to London . 
But meanwhile there's plenty of time to find your trunk . 
She was clearly an American , but with the loose native quality strained through a closer woof of manners the composite product of an enquiring and adaptable race . 
More puzzling than the fact of his being unable to identify her was the persistent sense connecting her with something uncomfortable and distasteful . 
Oh , the taste of stale follies ! How insipid it was , yet how it clung ! I used to pass you on the stairs , she reminded him . 
Yes he had seen her slip by he recalled it now as he dashed up to the drawing room in quest of Lady Ulrica . 
The thought made him steal a longer look . 
He had dashed past that to reach Lady Ulrica Crispin ! But of course you wouldn't remember me , she was saying . 
My name is Viner Sophy Viner . 
Not remember her ? But of course he DID ! He was genuinely sure of it now . 
You're Mrs. Murrett's niece , he declared . 
Her reader ? Do you mean to say she ever reads ? Miss Viner enjoyed his wonder . 
Dear , no ! But I wrote notes , and made up the visiting book , and walked the dogs , and saw bores for her . 
That must have been rather bad ! Yes but nothing like as bad as being her niece . 
That I can well believe . 
I'm glad to hear , he added , that you put it all in the past tense . 
She seemed to droop a little at the allusion then she lifted her chin with a jerk of defiance . 
All is at an end between us . 
It annoyed him , at that particular moment , to be reminded that naturalness is not always consonant with taste . 
She seemed to guess his thought . 
You don't like my saying that you came for Lady Ulrica ? she asked , leaning over the table to pour herself a second cup of tea . 
He liked her quickness , at any rate . 
She was amusing , and that , in his present mood , was more to his purpose than the exact shade of her taste . 
It was odd , too , to discover suddenly that the blurred tapestry of Mrs. Murrett's background had all the while been alive and full of eyes . 
Now , with a pair of them looking into his , he was conscious of a queer reversal of perspective . 
Who were the 'we' ? Were you a cloud of witnesses ? There were a good many of us . 
Let me see who was there in your time ? Mrs. Bolt and Mademoiselle and Professor Didymus and the Polish Countess . 
Don't you remember the Polish Countess ? She crystal gazed , and played accompaniments , and Mrs. Murrett chucked her because Mrs. Didymus accused her of hypnotizing the Professor . 
But of course you don't remember . 
We were all invisible to you but we could see . 
And we all used to wonder about you Again Darrow felt a redness in the temples . 
What about me ? Well whether it was you or she who . 
He winced , but hid his disapproval . 
It made the time pass to listen to her . 
She let her amused scrutiny dwell on him . 
But how could you ? She was false from head to foot ! False ? In spite of time and satiety , the male instinct of ownership rose up and repudiated the charge . 
Miss Viner caught his look and laughed . 
The situation was saved , for Darrow , by an abrupt rush of memories , and he gave way to a mirth which she as frankly echoed . 
Of course , she gasped through her laughter , I only said it to tease Jimmy Her amusement obscurely annoyed him . 
Oh , you're all alike ! he exclaimed , moved by an unaccountable sense of disappointment . 
She caught him up in a flash she didn't miss things ! You say that because you think I'm spiteful and envious ? Yes I was envious of Lady Ulrica . 
Under the flying clouds of her excitement it was no longer a shallow flower cup but a darkening gleaming mirror that might give back strange depths of feeling . 
The girl had stuff in her he saw it and she seemed to catch the perception in his eyes . 
That's the kind of education I got at Mrs. Murrett's and I never had any other , she said with a shrug . 
Good Lord were you there so long ? Five years . 
I stuck it out longer than any of the others . 
She spoke as though it were something to be proud of . 
Well , thank God you're out of it now ! Again a just perceptible shadow crossed her face . 
Yes I'm out of it now fast enough . 
The stage ? Darrow stared at her , dismayed . 
It s not likely to be roses , roses all the way . 
Real compassion prompted him to continue Have you any any influence you can count on ? She gave a somewhat flippant little laugh . 
I've never had any other to count on . 
He passed over the obvious reply . 
But have you any idea how the profession is over crowded ? I know I'm trite I've a very clear idea . 
But I couldn't go on as I was . 
Oughtn't we be starting ? she asked , with a lofty assumption of indifference that might have been Lady Ulrica's . 
As he held it toward her she looked up at him quickly . 
The truth is , we quarrelled , she broke out , and I left last night without my dinner and without my salary . 
Ah he groaned , with a sharp perception of all the sordid dangers that might attend such a break with Mrs. Murrett . 
And without a character ! she added , as she slipped her arms into the jacket . 
Then he rejoined Miss Viner , and they drove off through the rain to the pier . 
III Almost as soon as the train left Calais her head had dropped back into the corner , and she had fallen asleep . 
Sitting opposite , in the compartment from which he had contrived to have other travellers excluded , Darrow looked at her curiously . 
He had never seen a face that changed so quickly . 
Her youthful history might , in fact , have been summed up in the statement that everybody had been too busy to look after her . 
taken their disapproval as a pretext for not troubling herself about poor Sophy , to whom perhaps for this reason she had remained the incarnation of remote romantic possibilities . 
Sophy did not resent this point of view . 
She was really much sorrier for her guardian's death than for the loss of her insignificant fortune . 
It was then after an interval of repose with compassionate but impecunious American friends in Paris that Miss Viner had been drawn into the turbid current of Mrs. Murrett's career . 
that Sophy had stuck it out so long in the dreadful house in Chelsea . 
She had brushed in this outline of her career with light rapid strokes , and in a tone of fatalism oddly untinged by bitterness . 
And at any moment , of course , a turn of the kaleidoscope might suddenly toss a bright spangle into the grey pattern of one's days . 
This light hearted philosophy was not without charm to a young man accustomed to more traditional views . 
George Darrow had had a fairly varied experience of feminine types , but the women he had frequented had either been pronouncedly ladies or they had not . 
As to young girls , he had never thought much about them since his early love for the girl who had become Mrs. Leath . 
That episode seemed , as he looked back on it , to bear no more relation to reality than a pale decorative design to the confused richness of a summer landscape . 
He no longer understood the violent impulses and dreamy pauses of his own young heart , or the inscrutable abandonments and reluctances of hers . 
Such generalisations belonged , however , to an earlier stage of his experience . 
The more he saw of life the more incalculable he found it and he had learned to yield to his impressions without feeling the youthful need of relating them to others . 
It was the girl in the opposite seat who had roused in him the dormant habit of comparison . 
There was neither surprise nor bewilderment in the look . 
She seemed instantly conscious , not so much of where she was , as of the fact that she was with him and that fact seemed enough to reassure her . 
Shouts and the hurried tread of travellers came to them through the confusing cross lights of the platform . 
A head appeared at the window , and Darrow threw himself forward to defend their solitude but the intruder was only a train hand going his round of inspection . 
Miss Viner's head sank back against the cushion , pushing out a dusky wave of hair above her forehead . 
The swaying of the train loosened a lock over her ear , and she shook it back with a movement like a boy's , while her gaze still rested on her companion . 
You're not too tired ? She shook her head with a smile . 
We shall be in before midnight . 
We're very nearly on time . 
He verified the statement by holding up his watch to the lamp . 
I telegraphed Mrs. Farlow that they mustn't think of coming to the station but they'll have told the concierge to look out for me . 
You'll let me drive you there ? She nodded again , and her eyes closed . 
It was very pleasant to Darrow that she made no effort to talk or to dissemble her sleepiness . 
As he sank back into his seat he thought how differently Anna Summers or even Anna Leath would have behaved . 
She would not have talked too much she would not have been either restless or embarrassed but her adaptability , her appropriateness , would not have been nature but tact . 
The reflection set him wondering whether the sheltered girl's bringing up might not unfit her for all subsequent contact with life . 
Once more they had had their hour together and she had wasted it . 
As in her girlhood , her eyes had made promises which her lips were afraid to keep . 
She was still afraid of life , of its ruthlessness , its danger and mystery . 
She was still the petted little girl who cannot be left alone in the dark . 
His memory flew back to their youthful story , and long forgotten details took shape before him . 
How frail and faint the picture was ! They seemed , he and she , like the ghostly lovers of the Grecian Urn , forever pursuing without ever clasping each other . 
To this day he did not quite know what had parted them the break had been as fortuitous as the fluttering apart of two seed vessels on a wave of summer air . 
The very slightness , vagueness , of the memory gave it an added poignancy . 
He felt the mystic pang of the parent for a child which has just breathed and died . 
Musing thus , he had the sense of waste that is the bitterest harvest of experience . 
The engine lowered its speed for the passage through a sleeping station . 
In the light of the platform lamp Darrow looked across at his companion . 
Her head had dropped toward one shoulder , and her lips were just far enough apart for the reflection of the upper one to deepen the colour of the other . 
The jolting of the train had again shaken loose the lock above her ear . 
It danced on her cheek like the flit of a brown wing over flowers , and Darrow felt an intense desire to lean forward and put it back behind her ear . 
That's what you must see before you're twenty four hours older ! The girl followed his gesture eagerly . 
She was all awake and alive now , as if the heady rumours of the streets , with their long effervescences of light , had passed into her veins like wine . 
Cerdine ? Is that where she acts ? She put her head out of the window , straining back for a glimpse of the sacred threshold . 
As they flew past it she sank into her seat with a satisfied sigh . 
It's delicious enough just to KNOW she's there ! I've never seen her , you know . 
You must do better than that now . 
'Le Vertige' is a fine thing , and Cerdine gets some wonderful effects out of it . 
You must come with me tomorrow evening to see it with your friends , of course . 
That is , he added , if there's any sort of chance of getting seats . 
The flash of a street lamp lit up her radiant face . 
Oh , will you really take us ? What fun to think that it's tomorrow already ! It was wonderfully pleasant to be able to give such pleasure . 
There floated through his mind an answer of Mrs. Leath's to his enquiry whether she had seen the play in question . 
No. I meant to , of course , but one is so overwhelmed with things in Paris . 
And then I'm rather sick of Cerdine one is always being dragged to see her . 
That , among the people he frequented , was the usual attitude toward such opportunities . 
This little passage came back to him the next morning , as he opened his hotel window on the early roar of the Northern Terminus . 
The girl was there , in the room next to him . 
That had been the first point in his waking consciousness . 
The second was a sense of relief at the obligation imposed on him by this unexpected turn of everts . 
Darrow noticed that she did not feel the beauty and mystery of the spectacle as much as its pressure of human significance , all its hidden implications of emotion and adventure . 
He was struck afresh , as he listened , by the way in which her naturalness eased the situation of constraint , leaving to it only a pleasant savour of good fellowship . 
Well , what do you think of me ? she cried and with a hand at her waist she spun about as if to show off some miracle of Parisian dress making . 
As he did so , he saw how easy it was to explain things to her . 
She would either accept his suggestion , or she would not but at least she would waste no time in protestations and objections , or any vain sacrifice to the idols of conformity . 
Her concern for her friends seemed to have effaced all thought of herself , and this little indication of character gave Darrow a quite disproportionate pleasure . 
The walk was long enough for him to learn many things about her . 
If only as a sympathetic ear , he guessed what he must be worth to her . 
The girl had been dying for some one to talk to , some one before whom she could unfold and shake out to the light her poor little shut away emotions . 
Years of repression were revealed in her sudden burst of confidence and the pity she inspired made Darrow long to fill her few free hours to the brim . 
became necessary to the courageous couple . 
, and who had once , with signs of approval , heard Miss Viner recite the Nuit de Mai . 
But of course I know how much that's worth , the girl broke off , with one of her flashes of shrewdness . 
And besides , it isn't likely that a poor old fossil like Mme . 
Dolle could get anybody to listen to her now , even if she really thought I had talent . 
But she might introduce me to people or at least give me a few tips . 
If I could manage to earn enough to pay for lessons I'd go straight to some of the big people and work with them . 
In the rue de la Chaise they learned little except the exact address of the Farlows , and the fact that they had sub let their flat before leaving . 
The long walk had given her cheeks a glow indicative of wholesome hunger , and she made no difficulty about satisfying it in Darrow's company . 
It was a proof of the richness and multiplicity of the spectacle that it served , without incongruity , for so different a purpose as the background of Miss Viner's enjoyment . 
As a mere drop scene for her personal adventure it was just as much in its place as in the evocation of great perspectives of feeling . 
She was the kind of girl in whom certain people would instantly have recognized the histrionic gift . 
But experience had led him to think that , except at the creative moment , the divine flame burns low in its possessors . 
The one or two really intelligent actresses he had known had struck him , in conversation , as either bovine or primitively jolly . 
The coffee and liqueurs were already on the table when her mind suddenly sprang back to the Farlows . 
She jumped up with one of her subversive movements and declared that she must telegraph at once . 
She hung over the telegraph form with anxiously drawn brow , the tip of the pen handle pressed against her lip and at length she raised her troubled eyes to Darrow's . 
I simply can't think how to say it . 
What that you're staying over to see Cerdine ? But AM I am I , really ? The joy of it flamed over her face . 
Darrow looked at his watch . 
You could hardly get an answer to your telegram in time to take a train to Joigny this afternoon , even if you found your friends could have you . 
She mused for a moment , tapping her lip with the pen . 
But I must let them know I'm here . 
I must find out as soon as possible if they CAN , have me . 
She laid the pen down despairingly . 
I never COULD write a telegram ! she sighed . 
Try a letter , then and tell them you'll arrive tomorrow . 
This suggestion produced immediate relief , and she gave an energetic dab at the ink bottle but after another interval of uncertain scratching she paused again . 
Oh , it's fearful ! I don't know what on earth to say . 
I wouldn't for the world have them know how beastly Mrs. Murrett's been . 
Darrow did not think it necessary to answer . 
It was no business of his , after all . 
He lit a cigar and leaned back in his seat , letting his eyes take their fill of indolent pleasure . 
In the throes of invention she had pushed back her hat , loosening the stray lock which had invited his touch the night before . 
After looking at it for a while he stood up and wandered to the window . 
Behind him he heard her pen scrape on . 
I don't want to worry them I'm so certain they've got bothers of their own . 
The faltering scratches ceased again . 
I wish I weren't such an idiot about writing all the words get frightened and scurry away when I try to catch them . 
He glanced back at her with a smile as she bent above her task like a school girl struggling with a composition . 
Her flushed cheek and frowning brow showed that her difficulty was genuine and not an artless device to draw him to her side . 
She was really powerless to put her thoughts in writing , and the inability seemed characteristic of her quick impressionable mind , and of the incessant come and go of her sensations . 
He thought of Anna Leath's letters , or rather of the few he had received , years ago , from the girl who had been Anna Summers . 
At that moment , if he could have chosen , he would have left his companion on the spot but he had her on his hands , and must accept the consequences . 
Some odd intuition seemed to make her conscious of his change of mood , for she sprang from her seat , crumpling the letter in her hand . 
I'm too stupid but I won't keep you any longer . 
I'll go back to the hotel and write there . 
Her colour deepened , and for the first time , as their eyes met , he noticed a faint embarrassment in hers . 
Could it be that his nearness was , after all , the cause of her confusion ? The thought turned his vague impatience with her into a definite resentment toward himself . 
There was really no excuse for his having blundered into such an adventure . 
The idea was distinctly disagreeable he did not want the woman he adored to think he could forget her for a moment . 
V At the porter's desk a brief Pas de lettres fell destructively on the fabric of these hopes . 
Mrs. Leath had not written she had not taken the trouble to explain her telegram . 
Darrow turned away with a sharp pang of humiliation . 
Her frugal silence mocked his prodigality of hopes and fears . 
The second post was in , and had brought him nothing . 
Some kind of reply would be certain to reach him on his return from the theatre , and he would then know definitely whether Mrs. Leath meant to write or not . 
He hastened up to his room and dressed with a lighter heart . 
Miss Viner's vagrant trunk had finally found its way to its owner and , clad in such modest splendour as it furnished , she shone at Darrow across their restaurant table . 
In the reaction of his wounded vanity he found her prettier and more interesting than before . 
He even sent a careless glance about him in the vague hope that it might fall on an acquaintance . 
Darrow placed himself behind her , that he might catch her profile between himself and the stage . 
He was touched by the youthful seriousness of her expression . 
As the play progressed he noticed that her immobility was traversed by swift flashes of perception . 
She was not missing anything , and her intensity of attention when Cerdine was on the stage drew an anxious line between her brows . 
After the first act she remained for a few minutes rapt and motionless then she turned to her companion with a quick patter of questions . 
He gathered from them that she had been less interested in following the general drift of the play than in observing the details of its interpretation . 
Every gesture and inflection of the great actress's had been marked and analyzed and Darrow felt a secret gratification in being appealed to as an authority on the histrionic art . 
On a corner of their table lay a smeared copy of a theatrical journal . 
It caught Sophy's eye and after poring over the page she looked up with an excited exclamation . 
'They're giving Oedipe tomorrow afternoon at the Francais ! I suppose you've seen it heaps and heaps of times ? He smiled back at her . 
You must see it too . 
She sighed at his suggestion , but without discarding it . 
How can I ? The last train for Joigny leaves at four . 
But you don't know yet that your friends will want you . 
I shall know tomorrow early . 
I asked Mrs. Farlow to telegraph as soon as she got my letter . 
A twinge of compunction shot through Darrow . 
Her words recalled to him that on their return to the hotel after luncheon she had given him her letter to post , and that he had never thought of it again . 
No doubt it was still in the pocket of the coat he had taken off when he dressed for dinner . 
In his perturbation he pushed back his chair , and the movement made her look up at him . 
What's the matter ? Nothing . 
Only you know I don't fancy that letter can have caught this afternoon's post . 
Not caught it ? Why not ? Why , I'm afraid it will have been too late . 
He bent his head to light another cigarette . 
She struck her hands together with a gesture which , to his amusement , he noticed she had caught from Cerdine . 
Oh , dear , I hadn't thought of that ! But surely it will reach them in the morning ? Some time in the morning , I suppose . 
You know the French provincial post is never in a hurry . 
I don't believe your letter would have been delivered this evening in any case . 
As this idea occurred to him he felt himself almost absolved . 
Perhaps , then , I ought to have telegraphed ? I'll telegraph for you in the morning if you say so . 
The bell announcing the close of the entr' acte shrilled through the cafe , and she sprang to her feet . 
Oh , come , come ! We mustn't miss it ! Instantly forgetful of the Farlows , she slipped her arm through his and turned to push her way back to the theatre . 
As soon as the curtain went up she as promptly forgot her companion . 
Watching her from the corner to which he had returned , Darrow saw that great waves of sensation were beating deliciously against her brain . 
Darrow , as he observed her , again felt a detached enjoyment in her pleasure . 
She was an extraordinary conductor of sensation she seemed to transmit it physically , in emanations that set the blood dancing in his veins . 
At the end of the next act she discovered with dismay that in their transit to the cafe she had lost the beautiful pictured programme he had bought for her . 
She wanted to go back and hunt for it , but Darrow assured her that he would have no trouble in getting her another . 
This frugality smote Darrow by its contrast to her natural bright profusion and again he felt the desire to right so clumsy an injustice . 
When he returned to the box she was still standing in the doorway , and he noticed that his were not the only eyes attracted to her . 
Then another impression sharply diverted his attention . 
Above the fagged faces of the Parisian crowd he had caught the fresh fair countenance of Owen Leath signalling a joyful recognition . 
The young man , slim and eager , had detached himself from two companions of his own type , and was seeking to push through the press to his step mother's friend . 
A minute later Owen Leath was at his side . 
I was sure it was you ! Such luck to run across you ! Won't you come off with us to supper after it's over ? Montmartre , or wherever else you please . 
But the young man was not visible from it , and Darrow concluded that he had been recognized in the corridor and not at his companion's side . 
During the drive back to the hotel this vision was persistently kept before him by the thought that the evening post might have brought a letter from Mrs. Leath . 
If the telegram comes early I shall be off by the first train so I suppose this is good bye , she said , her eyes dimmed by a little shadow of regret . 
Oh , I'll see you in the morning , of course ! A tremor of pleasure crossed her face as he stood before her , smiling a little uncertainly . 
At any rate , she said , I want to thank you now for my good day . 
He felt in her hand the same tremor he had seen in her face . 
But it's YOU , on the contrary he began , lifting the hand to his lips . 
As he dropped it , and their eyes met , something passed through hers that was like a light carried rapidly behind a curtained window . 
Good night you must be awfully tired , he said with a friendly abruptness , turning away without even waiting to see her pass into her room . 
He unlocked his door , and stumbling over the threshold groped in the darkness for the electric button . 
The light showed him a telegram on the table , and he forgot everything else as he caught it up . 
No letter from France , the message read . 
It fell from Darrow's hand to the floor , and he dropped into a chair by the table and sat gazing at the dingy drab and olive pattern of the carpet . 
She had not written , then she had not written , and it was manifest now that she did not mean to write . 
If she had had any intention of explaining her telegram she would certainly , within twenty four hours , have followed it up by a letter . 
Darrow , face to face with these alternatives , felt a recrudescence of boyish misery . 
It was no longer his hurt vanity that cried out . 
The thought was so intolerable that he felt a blind desire to punish some one else for the pain it caused him . 
As he sat moodily staring at the carpet its silly intricacies melted into a blur from which the eyes of Mrs. Leath again looked out at him . 
He saw the fine sweep of her brows , and the deep look beneath them as she had turned from him on their last evening in London . 
This will be good bye , then , she had said and it occurred to him that her parting phrase had been the same as Sophy Viner's . 
At the thought he jumped to his feet and took down from its hook the coat in which he had left Miss Viner's letter . 
A sound in the next room made him pause . 
He had become conscious again that , a few feet off , on the other side of a thin partition , a small keen flame of life was quivering and agitating the air . 
Sophy's face came hack to him insistently . 
It was as vivid now as Mrs. Leath's had been a moment earlier . 
He recalled with a faint smile of retrospective pleasure the girl's enjoyment of her evening , and the innumerable fine feelers of sensation she had thrown out to its impressions . 
It gave him a curiously close sense of her presence to think that at that moment she was living over her enjoyment as intensely as he was living over his unhappiness . 
His own case was irremediable , but it was easy enough to give her a few more hours of pleasure . 
He wondered now that he had not been struck at the moment by so artless a device to gain more time . 
The fact of her having practised it did not make him think less well of her it merely strengthened the impulse to use his opportunity . 
She became of absorbing interest to him as an escape from himself and an object about which his thwarted activities could cluster . 
He dropped back into his chair , lit a cigar , and smiled a little at the image of her smiling face . 
He tried to imagine what incident of the day she was likely to be recalling at that particular moment , and what part he probably played in it . 
That it was not a small part he was certain , and the knowledge was undeniably pleasant . 
He stood up and shook himself with a yawn , throwing away the end of his cigar . 
His glance , in following it , lit on the telegram which had dropped to the floor . 
The sounds in the next room had ceased , and once more he felt alone and unhappy . 
VI At the Theatre Francais , the next afternoon , Darrow yawned and fidgeted in his seat . 
The day was warm , the theatre crowded and airless , and the performance , it seemed to him , intolerably bad . 
He stole a glance at his companion , wondering if she shared his feelings . 
Her rapt profile betrayed no unrest , but politeness might have caused her to feign an interest that she did not feel . 
He leaned back impatiently , stifling another yawn , and trying to fix his attention on the stage . 
Great things were going forward there , and he was not insensible to the stern beauties of the ancient drama . 
But the interpretation of the play seemed to him as airless and lifeless as the atmosphere of the theatre . 
The players were the same whom he had often applauded in those very parts , and perhaps that fact added to the impression of staleness and conventionality produced by their performance . 
Surely it was time to infuse new blood into the veins of the moribund art . 
He had the impression that the ghosts of actors were giving a spectral performance on the shores of Styx . 
Certainly it was not the most profitable way for a young man with a pretty companion to pass the golden hours of a spring afternoon . 
But the rapturous look she gave him checked the depreciation on his lips . 
Darrow smiled in enjoyment of her pleasure . 
I was afraid you were bored and wanted to come away . 
BORED ? She made a little aggrieved grimace . 
You mean you thought me too ignorant and stupid to appreciate it ? No not that . 
The hand nearest him still lay on the railing of the balcony , and he covered it for a moment with his . 
As he did so he saw the colour rise and tremble in her cheek . 
Tell me just what you think , he said , bending his head a little , and only half aware of his words . 
She did not turn her face to his , but began to talk rapidly , trying to convey something of what she felt . 
She had no literary or historic associations to which to attach her impressions her education had evidently not comprised a course in Greek literature . 
Seen in this light , the play regained for Darrow its supreme and poignant reality . 
After this there could be no question of flight , and he took her back to the theatre , content to receive his own sensations through the medium of hers . 
But with the continuation of the play , and the oppression of the heavy air , his attention again began to wander , straying back over the incidents of the morning . 
He had been with Sophy Viner all day , and he was surprised to find how quickly the time had gone . 
She had hardly attempted , as the hours passed , to conceal her satisfaction on finding that no telegram came from the Farlows . 
They'll have written , she had simply said and her mind had at once flown on to the golden prospect of an afternoon at the theatre . 
Everything entertained and interested her , and Darrow remarked , with an amused detachment , that she was not insensible to the impression her charms produced . 
After luncheon , as they sat over their coffee , she had again asked an immense number of questions and delivered herself of a remarkable variety of opinions . 
Her questions testified to a wholesome and comprehensive human curiosity , and her comments showed , like her face and her whole attitude , an odd mingling of precocious wisdom and disarming ignorance . 
Meanwhile , such expertness qualified by such candour made it impossible to guess the extent of her personal experience , or to estimate its effect on her character . 
She might be any one of a dozen definable types , or she might more disconcertingly to her companion and more perilously to herself be a shifting and uncrystallized mixture of them all . 
Her talk , as usual , had promptly reverted to the stage . 
Oh , I never mean to marry , she had rejoined in a tone of youthful finality . 
I seem to have heard that before ! Yes from girls who've only got to choose ! Her eyes had grown suddenly almost old . 
You see I'm all for self development and the chance to live one's life . 
I'm awfully modern , you know . 
All these things came back to him as he sat beside her in the theatre and watched her ingenuous absorption . 
He did not believe there were ever any echoes in her soul . 
There was no question , however , that what she felt was felt with intensity to the actual , the immediate , she spread vibrating strings . 
When the play was over , and they came out once more into the sunlight , Darrow looked down at her with a smile . 
Her dark gaze seemed to rest on him without seeing him . 
Her cheeks and lips were pale , and the loose hair under her hat brim clung to her forehead in damp rings . 
She looked like a young priestess still dazed by the fumes of the cavern . 
You poor child it's been almost too much for you ! She shook her head with a vague smile . 
Come , he went on , putting his hand on her arm , let's jump into a taxi and get some air and sunshine . 
She made no answer , and he signed to a motor cab , calling out to the driver To the Bois ! As the carriage turned toward the Tuileries she roused herself . 
I must go first to the hotel . 
There may be a message at any rate I must decide on something . 
Darrow saw that the reality of the situation had suddenly forced itself upon her . 
I MUST decide on something , she repeated . 
He would have liked to postpone the return , to persuade her to drive directly to the Bois for dinner . 
After all , he knew she would find nothing at the hotel so what did it matter if they went there ? The porter , interrogated , was not sure . 
He himself had received nothing for the lady , but in his absence his subordinate might have sent a letter upstairs . 
Darrow and Sophy mounted together in the lift , and the young man , while she went into her room , unlocked his own door and glanced at the empty table . 
For him at least no message had come and on her threshold , a moment later , she met him with the expected No there's nothing ! He feigned an unregretful surprise . 
And there's no earthly use in sitting here waiting . 
She stood before him in perplexity . 
But when I wrote yesterday I asked them to telegraph . 
I suppose they're horribly hard up , the poor dears , and they thought a letter would do as well as a telegram . 
The colour had risen to her face . 
That's why I wrote instead of telegraphing I haven't a penny to spare myself ! Nothing she could have said could have filled her listener with a deeper contrition . 
He felt the red in his own face as he recalled the motive with which he had credited her in his midnight musings . 
But that motive , after all , had simply been trumped up to justify his own disloyalty he had never really believed in it . 
The reflection deepened his confusion , and he would have liked to take her hand in his and confess the injustice he had done her . 
And I mustn't stay here any longer now I must try to get a night train for Joigny . 
Even if the Farlows can't take me in , I can go to the hotel it will cost less than staying here . 
Do you happen to remember , she asked , what time it was when you posted my letter ? VII Darrow was still standing on her threshold . 
As she put the question he entered the room and closed the door behind him . 
I'm so sorry so sorry but you must let me help you . 
You will let me help you ? he said . 
He took her hands and pressed them together between his , counting on a friendly touch to help out the insufficiency of words . 
He felt her yield slightly to his clasp , and hurried on without giving her time to answer . 
Isn't it a pity to spoil our good time together by regretting anything you might have done to prevent our having it ? She drew back , freeing her hands . 
Her face , losing its look of appealing confidence , was suddenly sharpened by distrust . 
What an insinuation ! he cried , throwing out his hands with a laugh . 
Her face instantly melted to laughter . 
Well , then I WON'T be sorry I won't regret anything except that our good time is over ! The words were so unexpected that they routed all his resolves . 
If she had gone on doubting him he could probably have gone on deceiving her but her unhesitating acceptance of his word made him hate the part he was playing . 
At the same moment a doubt shot up its serpenthead in his own bosom . 
But the moment his eyes fell on her he was ashamed of the thought , and knew it for what it really was another pretext to lessen his own delinquency . 
Why should our good time be over ? he asked . 
She was pale , and her eyes were fixed on him in a gaze in which there was neither distrust or resentment , but only an ingenuous wonder . 
He was extraordinarily touched by her expression . 
Oh , do ! You must . 
Listen to prove that I'm sincere I'll tell you . 
I'll tell you I didn't post your letter . 
I didn't post it because I wanted so much to give you a few good hours . 
and because I couldn't bear to have you go . 
He had the feeling that the words were being uttered in spite of him by some malicious witness of the scene , and yet that he was not sorry to have them spoken . 
The girl had listened to him in silence . 
She remained motionless for a moment after he had ceased to speak then she snatched away her hand . 
Thank you thank you most awfully for telling me ! And for all your other kind intentions ! The plan's delightful really quite delightful , and I'm extremely flattered and obliged . 
Her outburst did not offend the young man its immediate effect was that of allaying his agitation . 
The theatrical touch in her manner made his offense seem more venial than he had thought it a moment before . 
He drew up a chair and sat down beside her . 
She met this with a shrug , but he did not give her time to answer . 
My designs , he continued with a smile , were not nefarious . 
What rubbish we talk about intentions ! The truth is I hadn't any I just liked being with you . 
Perhaps you don't know how extraordinarily one can like being with you . 
He saw her face melt as she listened , and suddenly she unclasped her hands and leaned to him . 
But her look of sympathy had disarmed him his heart was bitter and distracted she was near him , her eyes were shining with compassion he bent over her and kissed her hand . 
Forgive me do forgive me , he said . 
She stood up with a smiling head shake . 
Oh , it's not so often that people try to give me any pleasure much less two whole days of it ! I sha'n't forget how kind you've been . 
I shall have plenty of time to remember . 
But this IS good bye , you know . 
I must telegraph at once to say I'm coming . 
To say you're coming ? Then I'm not forgiven ? Oh , you're forgiven if that's any comfort . 
It's not , the very least , if your way of proving it is to go away ! She hung her head in meditation . 
How CAN I stay ? she broke out , as if arguing with some unseen monitor . 
Why can't you ? No one knows you're here . 
No one need ever know . 
She looked up , and their eyes exchanged meanings for a rapid minute . 
Her gaze was as clear as a boy's . 
Well , then , what is it ? Not ME , I hope ? No , not you I like you . 
It's the money ! With me that's always the root of the matter . 
I could never yet afford a treat in my life ! Is THAT all ? He laughed , relieved by her naturalness . 
I might never be able to pay up ! His gesture brushed aside the allusion . 
Money may be the root of the matter it can't be the whole of it , between friends . 
Don't you think one friend may accept a small service from another without looking too far ahead or weighing too many chances ? The question turns entirely on what you think of me . 
If you don't like me well enough we'll shake hands too only I shall be sorry , he ended . 
Well , then ? He stood looking down on her , his eyes persuading her . 
You mustn't mind offending me , you know ! She hung before him like a leaf on the meeting of cross currents , that the next ripple may sweep forward or whirl back . 
Then she flung up her head with the odd boyish movement habitual to her in moments of excitement . 
Darrow , as he stood looking at her , reflected that her character , for all its seeming firmness , its flashing edges of opinion , was probably no less immature . 
He had not expected her to yield so suddenly to his suggestion , or to confess her yielding in that way . 
At first he was slightly disconcerted then he saw how her attitude simplified his own . 
Her behaviour had all the indecision and awkwardness of inexperience . 
It showed that she was a child after all and all he could do all he had ever meant to do was to give her a child's holiday to look back to . 
For a while they shone on each other without speaking then she sprang to him and held out both hands . 
The streams descended with the regularity of a third day's rain , when trimming and shuffling are over , and the weather has settled down to do its worst . 
There were no variations of rhythm , no lyrical ups and downs the grey lines streaking the panes were as dense and uniform as a page of unparagraphed narrative . 
George Darrow had drawn his armchair to the fire . 
Then his eyes travelled slowly about the room . 
It was exactly ten days since his hurried unpacking had strewn it with the contents of his portmanteaux . 
His brushes and razors were spread out on the blotched marble of the chest of drawers . 
Darrow picked up the time table and tossed it on to the table . 
Then he rose to his feet , lit a cigar and went to the window . 
Through the rain he could just discover the face of a clock in a tall building beyond the railway roofs . 
He felt a quite disproportionate irritation at the trifling blunder . 
When he had corrected it he went back to his chair and threw himself down , leaning back his head against his hands . 
Presently his cigar went out , and he got up , hunted for the matches , lit it again and returned to his seat . 
The room was getting on his nerves . 
Every detail pressed itself on his notice with the familiarity of an accidental confidant whichever way he turned , he felt the nudge of a transient intimacy . 
The one fixed point in his immediate future was that his leave was over and that he must be back at his post in London the next morning . 
Within twenty four hours he would again be in a daylight world of recognized activities , himself a busy , responsible , relatively necessary factor in the big whirring social and official machine . 
Whenever he did so , the room jerked him back into the circle of its insistent associations . 
He hated the door most of all . 
At the outset , he had felt no special sense of responsibility . 
He was satisfied that he had struck the right note , and convinced of his power of sustaining it . 
The whole incident had somehow seemed , in spite of its vulgar setting and its inevitable prosaic propinquities , to be enacting itself in some unmapped region outside the pale of the usual . 
Perhaps but for the three days' rain he might have got away without a doubt as to his adequacy . 
The rain had made all the difference . 
It was the kind of situation that was not helped by being thought over and by the perversity of circumstance he had been forced into the unwilling contemplation of its every aspect . 
His cigar had gone out again , and he threw it into the fire and vaguely meditated getting up to find another . 
A different noise aroused him . 
It was the opening and closing of the door leading from the corridor into the adjoining room . 
He sat motionless , without opening his eyes but now another sight forced itself under his lowered lids . 
It was the precise photographic picture of that other room . 
Everything in it rose before him and pressed itself upon his vision with the same acuity of distinctness as the objects surrounding him . 
He heard another sound , and recognized it as that of a wet umbrella placed in the black marble jamb of the chimney piece , against the hearth . 
He caught the creak of a hinge , and instantly differentiated it as that of the wardrobe against the opposite wall . 
The step crossed the floor again . 
It was strange how much better he knew it than the person to whom it belonged ! Now it was drawing near the door of communication between the two rooms . 
He opened his eyes and looked . 
The step had ceased and for a moment there was silence . 
Then he heard a low knock . 
He made no response , and after an interval he saw that the door handle was being tentatively turned . 
He closed his eyes once more . 
The door opened , and the step was in the room , coming cautiously toward him . 
He kept his eyes shut , relaxing his body to feign sleep . 
There was another pause , then a wavering soft advance , the rustle of a dress behind his chair , the warmth of two hands pressed for a moment on his lids . 
The palms of the hands had the lingering scent of some stuff that he had bought on the Boulevard . 
He looked up and saw a letter falling over his shoulder to his knee . 
Did I disturb you ? I'm so sorry ! They gave me this just now when I came in . 
The letter , before he could catch it , had slipped between his knees to the floor . 
Oh , don't DON'T broke from him , and he bent over and caught the arm . 
The face above it was close to his . 
Don't what ? take the trouble , he stammered . 
He dropped the arm and stooped down . 
His grasp closed over the letter , he fingered its thickness and weight and calculated the number of sheets it must contain . 
He bent forward first and threw the unopened letter into the middle of the fire . 
In the court , half way between house and drive , a lady stood . 
Yet it was no less apparent that the scene was not new to her . 
This was in fact the exact sensation of which Mrs. Leath was conscious as she came forth from the house and descended into the sunlit court . 
The scene about her was known to satiety . 
The possibilities which the place had then represented were still vividly present to her . 
Though she could still call up that phase of feeling it had long since passed , and the house had for a time become to her the very symbol of narrowness and monotony . 
Now , as it lay before her in the autumn mildness , its mistress was surprised at her own insensibility . 
Just such a latent animation glowed in Anna Leath . 
In every nerve and vein she was conscious of that equipoise of bliss which the fearful human heart scarce dares acknowledge . 
She was not used to strong or full emotions but she had always known that she should not be afraid of them . 
She was not afraid now but she felt a deep inward stillness . 
The immediate effect of the feeling had been to send her forth in quest of her step son . 
She wanted to stroll back with him and have a quiet talk before they re entered the house . 
It was always easy to talk to him , and at this moment he was the one person to whom she could have spoken without fear of disturbing her inner stillness . 
And she was glad that even he was not yet in sight . 
She wanted to be alone a little longer not to think , but to let the long slow waves of joy break over her one by one . 
She walked out of the court and sat down on one of the benches that bordered the drive . 
From her seat she had a diagonal view of the long house front and of the domed chapel terminating one of the wings . 
Beyond a gate in the court yard wall the flower garden drew its dark green squares and raised its statues against the yellowing background of the park . 
In Mrs. Leath's hand was the letter which had opened her eyes to these things , and a smile rose to her lips at the mere feeling of the paper between her fingers . 
The thrill it sent through her gave a keener edge to every sense . 
She felt , saw , breathed the shining world as though a thin impenetrable veil had suddenly been removed from it . 
Just such a veil , she now perceived , had always hung between herself and life . 
She had been hardly aware , in her girlhood , of differing from others in this respect . 
In the well regulated well fed Summers world the unusual was regarded as either immoral or ill bred , and people with emotions were not visited . 
In a community composed entirely of people like her parents and her parents' friends she did not see how the magnificent things one read about could ever have happened . 
There seemed to be a kind of freemasonry between them they were wider awake than she , more alert , and surer of their wants if not of their opinions . 
She supposed they were cleverer , and accepted her inferiority good humouredly , half aware , within herself , of a reserve of unused power which the others gave no sign of possessing . 
Love , she told herself , would one day release her from this spell of unreality . 
She was persuaded that the sublime passion was the key to the enigma but it was difficult to relate her conception of love to the forms it wore in her experience . 
Her own case , of course , would be different . 
Some day she would find the magic bridge between West Fifty fifth Street and life once or twice she had even fancied that the clue was in her hand . 
The first time was when she had met young Darrow . 
She recalled even now the stir of the encounter . 
But his passion swept over her like a wind that shakes the roof of the forest without reaching its still glades or rippling its hidden pools . 
He was extraordinarily intelligent and agreeable , and her heart beat faster when he was with her . 
He had a tall fair easy presence and a mind in which the lights of irony played pleasantly through the shades of feeling . 
Whenever they were apart a reaction set in . 
Suddenly , at the sight , a rage of possessorship awoke in her . 
She must save Darrow , assert her right to him at any price . 
Pride and reticence went down in a hurricane of jealousy . 
She heard him laugh , and there was something new in his laugh . 
She watched him talking , talking . 
He sat slightly sideways , a faint smile beneath his lids , lowering his voice as he lowered it when he talked to her . 
She caught the same inflections , but his eyes were different . 
It would have offended her once if he had looked at her like that . 
Now her one thought was that none but she had a right to be so looked at . 
He came the next day , and they were alone , and all she found was I didn't know that you and Kitty Mayne were such friends . 
He answered with indifference that he didn't know it either , and in the reaction of relief she declared She's certainly ever so much prettier than she was . 
She's rather good fun , he admitted , as though he had not noticed her other advantages and suddenly Anna saw in his eyes the look she had seen there the previous evening . 
She felt as if he were leagues and leagues away from her . 
She was still quivering with the pain and bewilderment of this adventure when Fraser Leath appeared . 
She met him first in Italy , where she was travelling with her parents and the following winter he came to New York . 
In Italy he had seemed interesting in New York he became remarkable . 
On another occasion he asked her acceptance of a half effaced eighteenth century pastel which he had surprisingly picked up in a New York auction room . 
I know no one but you who would really appreciate it , he explained . 
He permitted himself no other comments , but these conveyed with sufficient directness that he thought her worthy of a different setting . 
Here was some one whose scale of values was the same as hers , and who thought her opinion worth hearing on the very matters which they both considered of supreme importance . 
The discovery restored her self confidence , and she revealed herself to Mr. Leath as she had never known how to reveal herself to Darrow . 
As the courtship progressed , and they grew more confidential , her suitor surprised and delighted her by little explosions of revolutionary sentiment . 
In Europe , you know , the husband is regarded as the only judge in such matters . 
The subversiveness of Mr. Leath's opinions was enhanced by the distinction of his appearance and the reserve of his manners . 
He was like the anarchist with a gardenia in his buttonhole who figures in the higher melodrama . 
There had been a time when the walls on which her gaze now rested had shed a glare of irony on these early dreams . 
In the first years of her marriage the sober symmetry of Givre had suggested only her husband's neatly balanced mind . 
It was a mind , she soon learned , contentedly absorbed in formulating the conventions of the unconventional . 
West Fifty fifth Street was no more conscientiously concerned than Givre with the momentous question of what people did it was only the type of deed investigated that was different . 
Mr. Leath collected his social instances with the same seriousness and patience as his snuff boxes . 
He exacted a rigid conformity to his rules of non conformity and his scepticism had the absolute accent of a dogma . 
He even cherished certain exceptions to his rules as the book collector prizes a defective first edition . 
Anna , in fact , had discovered in her amiable and elegant mother in law an unexpected embodiment of the West Fifty fifth Street ideal . 
In the early days , when she was still questioning the Sphinx instead of trying to find an answer to it , she ventured to tax her husband with his inconsistency . 
My dear child , I don't pretend to apply the principles of logic to my poor mother's prejudices . 
But if you admit that they ARE prejudices ? There are prejudices and prejudices . 
They preserve a social tradition of which I should be sorry to lose the least perfume . 
Of course I don't expect you , just at first , to feel the difference , to see the nuance . 
In the case of little Madame de Vireville , for instance you point out that she's still under her husband's roof . 
But in the country it's different . 
You're inclined to ridicule such considerations , but gradually you'll come to see their importance and meanwhile , do trust me when I ask you to be guided by my mother . 
It is always well for a stranger in an old society to err a little on the side of what you call its prejudices but I should rather describe as its traditions . 
After that she no longer tried to laugh or argue her husband out of his convictions . 
They WERE convictions , and therefore unassailable . 
Nor was any insincerity implied in the fact that they sometimes seemed to coincide with hers . 
There were occasions when he really did look at things as she did but for reasons so different as to make the distance between them all the greater . 
In the first bewilderment of her new state these discoveries had had the effect of dropping another layer of gauze between herself and reality . 
She seemed farther than ever removed from the strong joys and pangs for which she felt herself made . 
She did not adopt her husband's views , but insensibly she began to live his life . 
The birth of her little girl swept away this delusion . 
At last she felt herself in contact with the actual business of living but even this impression was not enduring . 
Everything but the irreducible crude fact of child bearing assumed , in the Leath household , the same ghostly tinge of unreality . 
Her husband , at the time , was all that his own ideal of a husband required . 
With the exception of the little girl herself , everything connected with that time had grown curiously remote and unimportant . 
X Two brown blurs emerging from the farther end of the wood vista gradually defined themselves as her step son and an attendant game keeper . 
She watched his approach with a smile . 
From the first days of her marriage she had been drawn to the boy , but it was not until after Effie's birth that she had really begun to know him . 
The eager observation of her own child had shown her how much she had still to learn about the slight fair boy whom the holidays periodically restored to Givre . 
Owen , even then , both physically and morally , furnished her with the oddest of commentaries on his father's mien and mind . 
She even pushed the analogy farther , and descried in her step son's mind a quaintly twisted reflection of her husband's . 
It was as though Fraser Leath's ideas , accustomed to hang like marionettes on their pegs , should suddenly come down and walk . 
Her interest in Owen led her to think more often of his mother , and sometimes she would slip away and stand alone before her predecessor's portrait . 
Well , they never came , the visitors they never came and she died of it . 
She died of it long before they buried her I'm certain of that . 
Those are stone dead eyes in the picture . 
The loneliness must have been awful , if even Owen couldn't keep her from dying of it . 
And to feel it so she must have HAD feelings real live ones , the kind that twitch and tug . 
Sometimes she fancied that Owen Leath's response was warmer than that of her own child . 
This sense of his understanding was the deepest element in their feeling for each other . 
Musing on this , she continued to watch his approach and her heart began to beat a little faster at the thought of what she had to say to him . 
But when he reached the gate she saw him pause , and after a moment he turned aside as if to gain a cross road through the park . 
She started up and waved her sunshade , but he did not see her . 
No doubt he meant to go back with the gamekeeper , perhaps to the kennels , to see a retriever who had hurt his leg . 
Suddenly she was seized by the whim to overtake him . 
She threw down the parasol , thrust her letter into her bodice , and catching up her skirts began to run . 
She only knew that run she must , that no other motion , short of flight , would have been buoyant enough for her humour . 
She seemed to be keeping pace with some inward rhythm , seeking to give bodily expression to the lyric rush of her thoughts . 
The earth always felt elastic under her , and she had a conscious joy in treading it but never had it been as soft and springy as today . 
The air , too , seemed to break in waves against her , sweeping by on its current all the slanted lights and moist sharp perfumes of the failing day . 
Then she stopped and waited , flushed and laughing , her hands clasped against the letter in her breast . 
He smiled back , but above the smile she saw the shade of anxiety which , for the last two months , had kept its fixed line between his handsome eyes . 
Owen , don't look like that ! I don't want you to ! she said imperiously . 
You said that exactly like Effie . 
Where are you going ? she asked . 
But there's not the least need . 
The vet has seen Garry and he's all right . 
If there's anything you wanted to tell me Did I say there was ? I just came out to meet you I wanted to know if you'd had good sport . 
The shadow dropped on him again . 
The fact is I didn't try . 
Jean and I have just been knocking about in the woods . 
I wasn't in a sanguinary mood . 
They walked on with the same light gait , so nearly of a height that keeping step came as naturally to them as breathing . 
Anna stole another look at the young face on a level with her own . 
You DID say there was something you wanted to tell me , her step son began after a pause . 
She slackened her pace involuntarily , and they came to a pause and stood facing each other under the limes . 
Is Darrow coming ? he asked . 
She seldom blushed , but at the question a sudden heat suffused her . 
She held her head high . 
But that's not She saw her blunder and tried to rectify it . 
Or rather , yes , in a way it is my reason for wanting to speak to you Because he's coming ? Because he's not yet here . 
It's about him , then ? He looked at her kindly , half humourously , an almost fraternal wisdom in his smile . 
About ? No , no I meant that I wanted to speak today because it's our last day alone together . 
Owen He stopped again and faced her . 
Look here , my dear , it's no sort of use . 
What's no use ? Anything on earth you can any of you say . 
She challenged him Am I one of 'any of you' ? He did not yield . 
Well , then anything on earth that even YOU can say . 
You don't in the least know what I can say or what I mean to . 
Don't I , generally ? She gave him this point , but only to make another . 
Yes but this is particularly . 
Owen , you've been admirable all through . 
He broke into a laugh in which the odd elder brotherly note was once more perceptible . 
Oh , and so have you to HER ! His voice broke down to boyishness . 
I've never lost sight of that for a minute . 
It's been altogether easier for her , though , he threw off presently . 
On the whole , I suppose it has . 
Haven't you , though , perhaps the least bit ? Because , after all , you knew I understood ? You've been awfully kind about pretending to . 
You don't believe me ? You must remember I had your grandmother to consider . 
She went on , in the same tone of affectionate persuasion Yes I must have seemed to you too subject to Givre . 
But you know that was not my real object in asking you to wait , to say nothing to your grandmother before her return . 
Your real object , of course , was to gain time . 
Yes but for whom ? Why not for YOU ? For me ? He flushed up quickly . 
You don't mean ? She laid her hand on his arm and looked gravely into his handsome eyes . 
I mean that when your grandmother gets back from Ouchy I shall speak to her You'll speak to her . 
Only you must promise not to rush things . 
You must give me time to prepare Adelaide too , Mrs. Leath went on . 
Prepare her too ? He drew away for a better look at her . 
Prepare her for what ? Why , to prepare your grandmother ! For your marriage . 
Yes , that's what I mean . 
I'm going to see you through , you know His feint of indifference broke down and he caught her hand . 
Oh , you dear divine thing ! I didn't dream I know you didn't . 
She dropped her gaze and began to walk on slowly . 
I can't say you've convinced me of the wisdom of the step . 
Only I seem to see that other things matter more and that not missing things matters most . 
Perhaps I've changed or YOUR not changing has convinced me . 
I'm certain now that you won't budge . 
And that was really all I ever cared about . 
I suppose one learns something every day Not at Givre ! he laughed , and shot a half ironic look at her . 
But you haven't really BEEN at Givre lately not for months ! Don't you suppose I've noticed that , my dear ? She echoed his laugh to merge it in an undenying sigh . 
It looks so made to be happy in she murmured . 
Yes today , today ! He pressed her arm a little . 
It IS beautiful , she said . 
You and I don't have to say things to talk to each other . 
When you turn suddenly absentminded and mysterious I always feel like saying 'Come back . 
You know as much as I know . 
He wavered , as if for the first time uncertain how far he might go . 
I don't know Darrow as much as you know him , he presently risked . 
To the aerial listener her words sounded flat and colourless , but to the self within the ring each one beat with a separate heart . 
It was the day after Darrow's arrival , and he had come down early , drawn by the sweetness of the light on the lawns and gardens below his window . 
Anna had heard the echo of his step on the stairs , his pause in the stone flagged hall , his voice as he asked a servant where to find her . 
She was at the end of the house , in the brown panelled sitting room which she frequented at that season because it caught the sunlight first and kept it longest . 
She stood near the window , in the pale band of brightness , arranging some salmon pink geraniums in a shallow porcelain bowl . 
Every sensation of touch and sight was thrice alive in her . 
As he drew nearer , his figure was suddenly displaced by that of her husband , whom , from the same point , she had so often seen advancing down the same perspective . 
Then the footsteps of the present came close , and she had to drop the geraniums to give her hand to Darrow . 
Yes , let us walk down to the river . 
They had neither of them , as yet , found much to say to each other . 
Darrow had arrived late on the previous afternoon , and during the evening they had had between them Owen Leath and their own thoughts . 
Now they were alone for the first time and the fact was enough in itself . 
Yet Anna was intensely aware that as soon as they began to talk more intimately they would feel that they knew each other less well . 
They passed out onto the terrace and down the steps to the gravel walk below . 
It's good to be here , Darrow said . 
And this is where you've been all these years . 
They turned away and began to walk down a long tunnel of yellowing trees . 
The path , growing narrower , wound on circuitously through the woods , between slender serried trunks twined with ivy . 
Patches of blue appeared above them through the dwindling leaves , and presently the trees drew back and showed the open fields along the river . 
They walked on across the fields to the tow path . 
In a curve of the wall some steps led up to a crumbling pavilion with openings choked with ivy . 
Anna sat silent , so intensely aware of Darrow's nearness that there was no surprise in the touch he laid on her hand . 
They looked at each other , and he smiled and said There are to be no more obstacles now . 
Obstacles ? The word startled her . 
What obstacles ? Don't you remember the wording of the telegram that turned me back last May ? 'Unforeseen obstacle' that was it . 
What was the earth shaking problem , by the way ? Finding a governess for Effie , wasn't it ? But I gave you my reason the reason why it was an obstacle . 
I wrote you fully about it . 
Yes , I know you did . 
He lifted her hand and kissed it . 
How far off it all seems , and how little it all matters today ! She looked at him quickly . 
Do you feel that ? I suppose I'm different . 
I want to draw all those wasted months into today to make them a part of it . 
But they are , to me . 
You reach back and take everything back to the first days of all . 
She frowned a little , as if struggling with an inarticulate perplexity . 
It's curious how , in those first days , too , something that I didn't understand came between us . 
Oh , in those days we neither of us understood , did we ? It's part of what's called the bliss of being young . 
Yes , I thought that , too thought it , I mean , in looking back . 
He dismissed the rest with a lightness that might have seemed conclusive evidence of her power over him . 
But she took no pride in such triumphs . 
The colour rose to her face . 
Between you and me everything matters . 
Of course ! She felt the unperceiving sweetness of his smile . 
That's why , he went on , 'everything , for me , is here and now on this bench , between you and me . 
She caught at the phrase . 
That's what I meant it's here and now we can't get away from it . 
Get away from it ? Do you want to ? AGAIN ? Her heart was beating unsteadily . 
Something in her , fitfully and with reluctance , struggled to free itself , but the warmth of his nearness penetrated every sense as the sunlight steeped the landscape . 
Then , suddenly , she felt that she wanted no less than the whole of her happiness . 
'Again' ? But wasn't it YOU , the last time ? She paused , the tremor in her of Psyche holding up the lamp . 
But in the interrogative light of her pause her companion's features underwent no change . 
I wrote as soon as I could , she rejoined . 
I explained the delay and asked you to come . 
And you never even answered my letter . 
It was impossible to come then . 
I had to go back to my post . 
And impossible to write and tell me so ? Your letter was a long time coming . 
I had waited a week ten days . 
I had some excuse for thinking , when it came , that you were in no great hurry for an answer . 
You thought that really after reading it ? I thought it . 
Her heart leaped up to her throat . 
Then why are you here today ? He turned on her with a quick look of wonder . 
God knows if you can ask me that ! You see I was right to say I didn't understand . 
He stood up abruptly and stood facing her , blocking the view over the river and the checkered slopes . 
Perhaps I might say so too . 
No , no we must neither of us have any reason for saying it again . 
She looked at him gravely . 
Surely you and I needn't arrange the lights before we show ourselves to each other . 
I want you to see me just as I am , with all my irrational doubts and scruples the old ones and the new ones too . 
He came back to his seat beside her . 
Never mind the old ones . 
They were justified I'm willing to admit it . 
With the governess having suddenly to be packed off , and Effie on your hands , and your mother in law ill , I see the impossibility of your letting me come . 
I even see that , at the moment , it was difficult to write and explain . 
But what does all that matter now ? The new scruples are the ones I want to tackle . 
She felt her happiness so near , so sure , that to strain it closer might be like a child's crushing a pet bird in its caress . 
But her very security urged her on . 
And I answered that one and I'm here . 
But in my last letter I repeated exactly what I'd said in the first the one I wrote you last June . 
I told you then that I was ready to give you the answer to what you'd asked me in London and in telling you that , I told you what the answer was . 
My dearest ! My dearest ! Darrow murmured . 
All summer you made no sign . 
And all I ask now is , that you should frankly tell me why . 
I can only repeat what I've just said . 
I was hurt and unhappy and I doubted you . 
I suppose if I'd cared less I should have been more confident . 
I cared so much that I couldn't risk another failure . 
For you'd made me feel that I'd miserably failed . 
So I shut my eyes and set my teeth and turned my back . 
There's the whole pusillanimous truth of it ! Oh , if it's the WHOLE truth ! She let him clasp her . 
There's my torment , you see . 
I thought that was what your silence meant till I made you break it . 
Now I want to be sure that I was right . 
What can I tell you to make you sure ? You can let me tell YOU everything first . 
She drew away , but without taking her hands from him . 
Owen saw you in Paris , she began . 
She looked at him and he faced her steadily . 
The light was full on his pleasantly browned face , his grey eyes , his frank white forehead . 
She noticed for the first time a seal ring in a setting of twisted silver on the hand he had kept on hers . 
In Paris ? Oh , yes . 
He came back and told me . 
I think you talked to him a moment in a theatre . 
I asked if you'd spoken of my having put you off or if you'd sent me any message . 
He didn't remember that you had . 
In a crush in a Paris foyer ? My dear ! It was absurd of me ! But Owen and I have always been on odd kind of brother and sister terms . 
I think he guessed about us when he saw you with me in London . 
He still held her hands , but she felt no tremor in his , and the blood did not stir in his brown cheek . 
He seemed to be honestly turning over his memories . 
Yes and what else did he tell you ? Oh , not much , except that she was awfully pretty . 
One DOES , you know . 
I think he said the cloak was pink . 
Darrow broke into a laugh . 
Of course it was they always are ! So that was at the bottom of your doubts ? Not at first . 
But afterward , when I wrote you and you didn't answer Oh , you DO see ? she appealed to him . 
He was looking at her gently . 
It's not as if this were a light thing between us . 
I want you to know me as I am . 
If I thought that at that moment . 
when you were on your way here , almost He dropped her hand and stood up . 
Yes , yes I understand . 
But do you ? Her look followed him . 
I'm not a goose of a girl . 
but there are things a woman feels . 
when what she knows doesn't make any difference . 
It's not that I want you to explain I mean about that particular evening . 
It's only that I want you to have the whole of my feeling . 
I didn't know what it was till I saw you again . 
But now that you have , I know I know , he smiled down at her . 
You know ? That this is no light thing between us . 
Now you may ask me anything you please ! That was all I wanted to ask YOU . 
For a long moment they looked at each other without speaking . 
She saw the dancing spirit in his eyes turn grave and darken to a passionate sternness . 
He stooped and kissed her , and she sat as if folded in wings . 
XII It was in the natural order of things that , on the way back to the house , their talk should have turned to the future . 
Anna was not eager to define it . 
She understood Darrow's impatience to see their plans take shape . 
Anna was ready to follow where he led , and not reluctant to put new sights as well as new thoughts between herself and her past . 
This made for the prompt realization of Darrow's wishes , and there seemed no reason why the marriage should not take place within the six weeks that remained of his leave . 
They passed out of the wood walk into the open brightness of the garden . 
The noon sunlight sheeted with gold the bronze flanks of the polygonal yews . 
Darrow stood still , and Anna felt that his glance was travelling from her to the scene about them and then back to her face . 
When Owen marries ? That's looking some distance ahead ! I want to be told that meanwhile you'll have no regrets . 
Owen may marry before long . 
Owen marry ? Why , he always seems like a faun in flannels ! I hope he's found a dryad . 
There might easily be one left in these blue and gold woods . 
I can't tell you yet where he found his dryad , but she IS one , I believe at any rate she'll become the Givre woods better than I do . 
Only there may be difficulties Well ! At that age they're not always to be wished away . 
Owen , at any rate , has made up his mind to overcome them and I've promised to see him through . 
She went on , after a moment's consideration , to explain that her step son's choice was , for various reasons , not likely to commend itself to his grandmother . 
She must be prepared for it , and I've promised to do the preparing . 
You know I always HAVE seen him through things , and he rather counts on me now . 
She fancied that Darrow's exclamation had in it a faint note of annoyance , and wondered if he again suspected her of seeking a pretext for postponement . 
Owen will understand , if you don't . 
Since he's in the same case himself I'll throw myself on his mercy . 
He'll see that I have the first claim on you he won't even want you not to see it . 
Owen sees everything I'm not afraid of that . 
But his future isn't settled . 
He's very young to marry too young , his grandmother is sure to think and the marriage he wants to make is not likely to convince her to the contrary . 
Yet you're backing him up ? Yet I'm backing him up . 
Even if Owen's marriage is a mistake , and has to be paid for , I believe he'll learn and grow in the paying . 
And you mean to break the news to her as soon as she comes back from Ouchy ? As soon as I see my way to it . 
She knows the girl and likes her that's our hope . 
And yet it may , in the end , prove our danger , make it harder for us all , when she learns the truth , than if Owen had chosen a stranger . 
I can't tell you more till I've told her I've promised Owen not to tell any one . 
I want our life to be like a house with all the windows lit I'd like to string lanterns from the roof and chimneys ! She ended with an inward tremor . 
All through her exposition and her appeal she had told herself that the moment could hardly have been less well chosen . 
In Darrow's place she would have felt , as he doubtless did , that her carefully developed argument was only the disguise of an habitual indecision . 
It caused her a slight pang to discover that his thoughts could wander at such a moment then , with a flush of joy she perceived the reason . 
She felt herself speak with ease , authority , conviction . 
She said to herself He doesn't care what I say it's enough that I say it even if it's stupid he'll like me better for it . 
They reached the court and walked under the limes toward the house . 
The sight of these garments , lying among her own wraps , gave her a sense of homely intimacy . 
It was as if her happiness came down from the skies and took on the plain dress of daily things . 
At last she seemed to hold it in her hand . 
As they entered the hall her eye lit on an unstamped note conspicuously placed on the table . 
From Owen ! He must have rushed off somewhere in the motor . 
She felt a secret stir of pleasure at the immediate inference that she and Darrow would probably lunch alone . 
Then she opened the note and stared at it in wonder . 
Dear , Owen wrote , after what you said yesterday I can't wait another hour , and I'm off to Francheuil , to catch the Dijon express and travel back with them . 
Don't be frightened I won't speak unless it's safe to . 
Trust me for that but I had to go . 
He's gone to Dijon to meet his grandmother . 
Oh , I hope I haven't made a mistake ! You ? Why , what have you to do with his going to Dijon ? She hesitated . 
The day before yesterday I told him , for the first time , that I meant to see him through , no matter what happened . 
And I'm afraid he's lost his head , and will be imprudent and spoil things . 
You see , I hadn't meant to say a word to him till I'd had time to prepare Madame de Chantelle . 
She felt that Darrow was looking at her and reading her thoughts , and the colour flew to her face . 
Yes it was when I heard you were coming that I told him . 
I wanted him to feel as I felt . 
it seemed too unkind to make him wait ! Her hand was in his , and his arm rested for a moment on her shoulder . 
It WOULD have been too unkind to make him wait . 
They moved side by side toward the stairs . 
Through the haze of bliss enveloping her , Owen's affairs seemed curiously unimportant and remote . 
Nothing really mattered but this torrent of light in her veins . 
She put her foot on the lowest step , saying It's nearly luncheon time I must take off my hat . 
and as she started up the stairs Darrow stood below in the hall and watched her . 
But the distance between them did not make him seem less near it was as if his thoughts moved with her and touched her like endearing hands . 
In her bedroom she shut the door and stood still , looking about her in a fit of dreamy wonder . 
Her feelings were unlike any she had ever known richer , deeper , more complete . 
For the first time everything in her , from head to foot , seemed to be feeding the same full current of sensation . 
She took off her hat and went to the dressing table to smooth her hair . 
The pressure of the hat had flattened the dark strands on her forehead her face was paler than usual , with shadows about the eyes . 
She felt a pang of regret for the wasted years . 
I want him to see me as I am , she thought . 
She was glad now that she had confessed her doubts and her jealousy . 
The sense of power she had been aware of in talking to Darrow came back with ten fold force . 
She wanted to linger with him in a world of fancy and yet to walk at his side in the world of fact . 
She wanted him to feel her power and yet to love her for her ignorance and humility . 
She felt like a slave , and a goddess , and a girl in her teens . 
XIII Darrow , late that evening , threw himself into an armchair before his fire and mused . 
The room was propitious to meditation . 
Everything in it was harmoniously shabby , with a subtle sought for shabbiness in which Darrow fancied he discerned the touch of Fraser Leath . 
But Fraser Leath had grown so unimportant a factor in the scheme of things that these marks of his presence caused the young man no emotion beyond that of a faint retrospective amusement . 
The afternoon and evening had been perfect . 
After a moment of concern over her step son's departure , Anna had surrendered herself to her happiness with an impetuosity that Darrow had never suspected in her . 
Over everything lay a faint sunshine that seemed dissolved in the still air , and the smell of wet roots and decaying leaves was merged in the pungent scent of burning underbrush . 
Then the motor flew on into the dusk . 
His imagination was struck by the quality of reticence in her beauty . 
She suggested a fine portrait kept down to a few tones , or a Greek vase on which the play of light is the only pattern . 
After dinner they went out on the terrace for a look at the moon misted park . 
Through the crepuscular whiteness the trees hung in blotted masses . 
Below the terrace , the garden drew its dark diagrams between statues that stood like muffled conspirators on the edge of the shadow . 
Farther off , the meadows unrolled a silver shot tissue to the mantling of mist above the river and the autumn stars trembled overhead like their own reflections seen in dim water . 
It seemed only a moment later that she said It must be after eleven , and stood up and looked down on him , smiling faintly . 
He got to his feet and put his arms about her . 
Good night , he answered , and held her fast and they gave each other a long kiss of promise and communion . 
The memory of it glowed in him still as he sat over his crumbling fire but beneath his physical exultation he felt a certain gravity of mood . 
His happiness was in some sort the rallying point of many scattered purposes . 
He summed it up vaguely by saying to himself that to be loved by a woman like that made all the difference . 
He was a little tired of experimenting on life he wanted to take a line , to follow things up , to centralize and concentrate , and produce results . 
The desire for change had for some time been latent in him , and his meeting with Mrs. Leath the previous spring had given it a definite direction . 
With such a comrade to focus and stimulate his energies he felt modestly but agreeably sure of doing something . 
And under this assurance was the lurking sense that he was somehow worthy of his opportunity . 
His life , on the whole , had been a creditable affair . 
In the recognized essentials he had always remained strictly within the limit of his scruples . 
From this reassuring survey of his case he came back to the contemplation of its crowning felicity . 
His mind turned again to his first meeting with Anna Summers and took up one by one the threads of their faintly sketched romance . 
Deeper still than all these satisfactions was the mere elemental sense of well being in her presence . 
If he had had any doubt as to the nature of her feeling for him those dissolving stars would have allayed it . 
She was reserved , she was shy even , was what the shallow and effusive would call cold . 
She was like a picture so hung that it can be seen only at a certain angle an angle known to no one but its possessor . 
The thought flattered his sense of possessorship . 
He felt that the smile on his lips would have been fatuous had it had a witness . 
Yes ! It was worth a good deal to watch that fight between her instinct and her intelligence , and know one's self the object of the struggle . 
Mingled with these sensations were considerations of another order . 
He reflected with satisfaction that she was the kind of woman with whom one would like to be seen in public . 
He draped these details in the handsome phrase She's a woman to be proud of , and felt that this fact somehow justified and ennobled his instinctive boyish satisfaction in loving her . 
He stood up , rambled across the room and leaned out for a while into the starry night . 
Then he dropped again into his armchair with a sigh of deep content . 
Oh , hang it , he suddenly exclaimed , it's the best thing that's ever happened to me , anyhow ! The next day was even better . 
He felt , and knew she felt , that they had reached a clearer understanding of each other . 
The old delusion , I suppose , he smiled to himself . 
Will Nature never tire of the trick ? But he knew it was more than that . 
There were moments in their talk when he felt , distinctly and unmistakably , the solid ground of friendship underneath the whirling dance of his sensations . 
How I should like her if I didn't love her ! he summed it up , wondering at the miracle of such a union . 
In the course of the morning a telegram had come from Owen Leath , announcing that he , his grandmother and Effie would arrive from Dijon that afternoon at four . 
The station of the main line was eight or ten miles from Givre , and Anna , soon after three , left in the motor to meet the travellers . 
When she had gone Darrow started for a walk , planning to get back late , in order that the reunited family might have the end of the afternoon to themselves . 
He roamed the country side till long after dark , and the stable clock of Givre was striking seven as he walked up the avenue to the court . 
In the hall , coming down the stairs , he encountered Anna . 
Her face was serene , and his first glance showed him that Owen had kept his word and that none of her forebodings had been fulfilled . 
Darrow followed her into the brown room , where the tea table had been left for him . 
She has enjoyed her month at Ouchy , and it has given her a lot to talk about her symptoms , and the rival doctors , and the people at the hotel . 
She attaches great importance to the fact that your grandmother was an Everard of Albany . 
She's prepared to open her arms to you . 
I don't know whether it won't make it harder for poor Owen . 
the contrast , I mean . 
Now I must rush up and tuck in Effie . 
Oh , you'll see , we'll pull it off for him ! he assured her together , we can't fail to pull it off . 
He stood and watched her with a smile as she fled down the half lit vista to the hall . 
XIV If Darrow , on entering the drawing room before dinner , examined its new occupant with unusual interest , it was more on Owen Leath's account than his own . 
Anna's hints had roused his interest in the lad's love affair , and he wondered what manner of girl the heroine of the coming conflict might be . 
The lady who was to represent , in the impending struggle , the forces of order and tradition was seated by the fire when Darrow entered . 
Among the flowers and old furniture of the large pale panelled room , Madame de Chantelle had the inanimate elegance of a figure introduced into a still life to give the scale . 
She was a woman of sixty , with a figure at once young and old fashioned . 
She received her daughter in law's suitor with an affability which implied her knowledge and approval of his suit . 
She said to Darrow They tell me things are very much changed in America . 
Of course in my youth there WAS a Society . 
She had no desire to return there she was sure the standards must be so different . 
There are charming people everywhere . 
and one must always look on the best side . 
but when one has lived among Traditions it's difficult to adapt one's self to the new ideas . 
These dreadful views of marriage . 
it's so hard to explain them to my French relations . 
I'm thankful to say I don't pretend to understand them myself ! But YOU'RE an Everard I told Anna last spring in London that one sees that instantly . 
She wandered off to the cooking and the service of the hotel at Ouchy . 
She attached great importance to gastronomic details and to the manners of hotel servants . 
There , too , there was a falling off , she said . 
I don t know , of course but people say it's owing to the Americans . 
Certainly my waiter had a way of slapping down the dishes . 
they tell me that many of them are Anarchists . 
belong to Unions , you know . 
She appealed to Darrow's reported knowledge of economic conditions to confirm this ominous rumour . 
After dinner Owen Leath wandered into the next room , where the piano stood , and began to play among the shadows . 
His step mother presently joined him , and Darrow sat alone with Madame de Chantelle . 
She took up the thread of her mild chat and carried it on at the same pace as her knitting . 
Her conversation resembled the large loose stranded web between her fingers now and then she dropped a stitch , and went on regardless of the gap in the pattern . 
Darrow listened with a lazy sense of well being . 
He could understand that , in the long run , the atmosphere of Givre might be suffocating but in his present mood its very limitations had a grace . 
Madame de Chantelle's conception of her native country to which she had not returned since her twentieth year reminded him of an ancient geographer's map of the Hyperborean regions . 
It was all a foggy blank , from which only one or two fixed outlines emerged and one of these belonged to the Everards of Albany . 
Madame de Chantelle could not resist such incontestable claims . 
She seemed to feel her son's hovering and discriminating presence , and she gave Darrow the sense that he was being tested and approved as a last addition to the Leath Collection . 
She also made him aware of the immense advantage he possessed in belonging to the diplomatic profession . 
She spoke of this humdrum calling as a Career , and gave Darrow to understand that she supposed him to have been seducing Duchesses when he was not negotiating Treaties . 
He heard again quaint phrases which romantic old ladies had used in his youth Brilliant diplomatic society . 
nothing else FORMS a young man in the same way . 
and she sighingly added that she could have wished her grandson had chosen the same path to glory . 
Here again , Madame de Chantelle's awe of the Career made her admit the necessity of Anna's consenting to an early marriage . 
She spoke plaintively of the responsibility of looking after her granddaughter , but Darrow divined that she enjoyed the flavour of the word more than she felt the weight of the fact . 
She's more like my son , perhaps , than dear Owen . 
She'll never intentionally give me the least trouble . 
But of course the responsibility will be great . 
I'm not sure I should dare to undertake it if it were not for her having such a treasure of a governess . 
At first we were afraid she was too young but now we've the greatest confidence in her . 
So clever and amusing and SUCH a lady ! I don't say her education's all it might be . 
but one can't have everything and she speaks Italian . 
Madame de Chantelle's fond insistence on the likeness between Effie Leath and her father , if not particularly gratifying to Darrow , had at least increased his desire to see the little girl . 
Almost at once , and with infinite relief , he saw that the resemblance of which Madame de Chantelle boasted was mainly external . 
Even that discovery was slightly distasteful , though Darrow was forced to own that Fraser Leath's straight featured fairness had lent itself to the production of a peculiarly finished image of childish purity . 
But it was evident that other elements had also gone to the making of Effie , and that another spirit sat in her eyes . 
He had begged a holiday for her , and when Mrs. Leath appeared he and she and the little girl went off for a ramble . 
Yes , he answered it , she's exquisite . 
Oh , I see what I'm asking of you ! But she'll be quite happy here , won't she ? And you must remember it won't be for long . 
Oh , she'll be happy here . 
It's her nature to be happy . 
She'll apply herself to it , conscientiously , as she does to her lessons , and to what she calls 'being good' . 
In a way , you see , that's just what worries me . 
It's lucky , at any rate , Darrow continued , that Madame de Chantelle thinks her so . 
Oh , I think very highly of her too . 
Highly enough to feel quite satisfied to leave her with Effie ? Yes . 
She's just the person for Effie . 
Only , of course , one never knows . 
She's young , and she might take it into her head to leave us . 
After a pause she added I'm naturally anxious to know what you think of her . 
When they entered the house the hands of the hall clock stood within a few minutes of the luncheon hour . 
Anna led Effie off to have her hair smoothed and Darrow wandered into the oak sitting room , which he found untenanted . 
The sun lay pleasantly on its brown walls , on the scattered books and the flowers in old porcelain vases . 
In his eyes lingered the vision of the dark haired mother mounting the stairs with her little fair daughter . 
The contrast between them seemed a last touch of grace in the complex harmony of things . 
He stood in the window , looking out at the park , and brooding inwardly upon his happiness . 
He was roused by Effie's voice and the scamper of her feet down the long floors behind him . 
Here he is ! Here he is ! she cried , flying over the threshold . 
HERE he is ! Effie repeated , with her sweet impatience . 
The figure in the doorway came forward and Darrow , looking up , found himself face to face with Sophy Viner . 
They stood still , a yard or two apart , and looked at each other without speaking . 
As they paused there , a shadow fell across one of the terrace windows , and Owen Leath stepped whistling into the room . 
In his rough shooting clothes , with the glow of exercise under his fair skin , he looked extraordinarily light hearted and happy . 
Darrow , with a quick side glance , noticed this , and perceived also that the glow on the youth's cheek had deepened suddenly to red . 
He too stopped short , and the three stood there motionless for a barely perceptible beat of time . 
During its lapse , Darrow's eyes had turned back from Owen's face to that of the girl between them . 
He had the sense that , whatever was done , it was he who must do it , and that it must be done immediately . 
He went forward and held out his hand . 
Effie , still hanging on her governess's arm , pressed herself closer with a little gesture of appropriation and Miss Viner laid her hand on her pupil's hair . 
Darrow felt that Anna's eyes had turned to him . 
I think Miss Viner and I have met already several years ago in London . 
I remember , said Sophy Viner , in the same clear voice . 
How charming ! Then we're all friends . 
But luncheon must be ready , said Mrs. Leath . 
She turned back to the door , and the little procession moved down the two long drawing rooms , with Effie waltzing on ahead . 
XV Madame de Chantelle and Anna had planned , for the afternoon , a visit to a remotely situated acquaintance whom the introduction of the motor had transformed into a neighbour . 
When he came downstairs the motor was at the door , and Anna stood before the hall mirror , swathing her hat in veils . 
She turned at the sound of his step and smiled at him for a long full moment . 
I'd no idea you knew Miss Viner , she said , as he helped her into her long coat . 
It came back to me , luckily , that I'd seen her two or three times in London , several years ago . 
She was secretary , or something of the sort , in the background of a house where I used to dine . 
He loathed the slighting indifference of the phrase , but he had uttered it deliberately , had been secretly practising it all through the interminable hour at the luncheon table . 
Now that it was spoken , he shivered at its note of condescension . 
In such cases one was almost sure to overdo . 
But Anna seemed to notice nothing unusual . 
Was she really ? You must tell me all about it tell me exactly how she struck you . 
I'm so glad it turns out that you know her . 
'Know' is rather exaggerated we used to pass each other on the stairs . 
Madame de Chantelle and Owen appeared together as he spoke , and Anna , gathering up her wraps , said You'll tell me about that , then . 
Try and remember everything you can . 
As he tramped through the woods at his young host's side , Darrow felt the partial relief from thought produced by exercise and the obligation to talk . 
But all the while , behind these voluntarily emphasized sensations , his secret consciousness continued to revolve on a loud wheel of thought . 
For a time it seemed to be sweeping him through deep gulfs of darkness . 
His sensations were too swift and swarming to be disentangled . 
Snatches of his companion's talk drifted to him intermittently through the confusion of his thoughts . 
He caught eager self revealing phrases , and understood that Owen was saying things about himself , perhaps hinting indirectly at the hopes for which Darrow had been prepared by Anna's confidences . 
He had already become aware that the lad liked him , and had meant to take the first opportunity of showing that he reciprocated the feeling . 
But the effort of fixing his attention on Owen's words was so great that it left no power for more than the briefest and most inexpressive replies . 
Young Leath , it appeared , felt that he had reached a turning point in his career , a height from which he could impartially survey his past progress and projected endeavour . 
At one time he had had musical and literary yearnings , visions of desultory artistic indulgence but these had of late been superseded by the resolute determination to plunge into practical life . 
I don't want , you see , Darrow heard him explaining , to drift into what my grandmother , poor dear , is trying to make of me an adjunct of Givre . 
I don't want hang it all ! to slip into collecting sensations as my father collected snuff boxes . 
I want to get out of it , into a life that's big and ugly and struggling . 
If I can extract beauty out of THAT , so much the better that'll prove my vocation . 
But I want to MAKE beauty , not be drowned in the ready made , like a bee in a pot of honey . 
Darrow knew that he was being appealed to for corroboration of these views and for encouragement in the course to which they pointed . 
To his own ears his answers sounded now curt , now irrelevant at one moment he seemed chillingly indifferent , at another he heard himself launching out on a flood of hazy discursiveness . 
He dared not look at Owen , for fear of detecting the lad's surprise at these senseless transitions . 
And through the confusion of his inward struggles and outward loquacity he heard the ceaseless trip hammer beat of the question What in God's name shall I do ? . 
To get back to the house before Anna's return seemed his most pressing necessity . 
He did not clearly know why he simply felt that he ought to be there . 
At any rate , he felt he ought to try to speak to HER or at least be prepared to do so , if the chance should occur . 
Finally , toward four , he told his companion that he had some letters on his mind and must get back to the house and despatch them before the ladies returned . 
He left Owen with the beater and walked on to the edge of the covert . 
At the park gates he struck obliquely through the trees , following a grass avenue at the end of which he had caught a glimpse of the roof of the chapel . 
A grey haze had blotted out the sun and the still air clung about him tepidly . 
At length the house front raised before him its expanse of damp silvered brick , and he was struck afresh by the high decorum of its calm lines and soberly massed surfaces . 
It made him feel , in the turbid coil of his fears and passions , like a muddy tramp forcing his way into some pure sequestered shrine . 
Only one definite immediate fact stuck in his quivering grasp . 
He must give the girl every chance must hold himself passive till she had taken them . 
In the court Effie ran up to him with her leaping terrier . 
I was coming out to meet you you and Owen . 
Miss Viner was coming , too , and then she couldn't because she's got such a headache . 
I'm afraid I gave it to her because I did my division so disgracefully . 
It's too bad , isn't it ? But won't you walk back with me ? Nurse won't mind the least bit she'd so much rather go in to tea . 
Darrow excused himself laughingly , on the plea that he had letters to write , which was much worse than having a headache , and not infrequently resulted in one . 
Oh , then you can go and write them in Owen's study . 
That's where gentlemen always write their letters . 
She flew on with her dog and Darrow pursued his way to the house . 
Effie's suggestion struck him as useful . 
He went in , leaving the door open , and sat down at the writing table . 
The early twilight had begun to fall , and presently a slanting ray across the desk showed Darrow that a servant was coming across the hall with a lamp . 
Then his steps died away and Darrow sat leaning his head on his locked hands . 
Presently another step sounded on the stairs , wavered a moment and then moved past the threshold of the study . 
Darrow got up and walked into the hall , which was still unlighted . 
In the dimness he saw Sophy Viner standing by the hall door in her hat and jacket . 
She stopped at sight of him , her hand on the door bolt , and they stood for a second without speaking . 
Have you seen Effie ? she suddenly asked . 
She went out to meet you . 
She DID meet me , just now , in the court . 
She's gone on to join her brother . 
Darrow spoke as naturally as he could , but his voice sounded to his own ears like an amateur actor's in a light part . 
Miss Viner , without answering , drew back the bolt . 
He watched her in silence as the door swung open then he said She has her nurse with her . 
She stood irresolute , and he added I was writing in there won't you come and have a little talk ? Every one's out . 
The last words struck him as not well chosen , but there was no time to choose . 
She paused a second longer and then crossed the threshold of the study . 
what in heaven's name can she suppose ? he wondered . 
Do sit down I want to talk to you , he said and pushed a chair toward her . 
She did not seem to see it , or , if she did , she deliberately chose another seat . 
He came back to his own chair and leaned his elbows on the blotter . 
She faced him from the farther side of the table . 
You promised to let me hear from you now and then , he began awkwardly , and with a sharp sense of his awkwardness . 
A faint smile made her face more tragic . 
Did I ? There was nothing to tell . 
I've had no history like the happy countries . 
He waited a moment before asking You ARE happy here ? I WAS , she said with a faint emphasis . 
Why do you say 'was' ? You're surely not thinking of going ? There can't be kinder people anywhere . 
Darrow hardly knew what he was saying but her answer came to him with deadly definiteness . 
I suppose it depends on you whether I go or stay . 
On me ? He stared at her across Owen's scattered papers . 
Good God ! What can you think of me , to say that ? The mockery of the question flashed back at him from her wretched face . 
She stood up , wandered away , and leaned an instant in the darkening window frame . 
From there she turned to fling back at him Don't imagine I'm the least bit sorry for anything ! He steadied his elbows on the table and hid his face in his hands . 
He lifted his head to ask at random You've been here , then , ever since ? Since June yes . 
It turned out that the Farlows were hunting for me all the while for this . 
She stood facing him , her back to the window , evidently impatient to be gone , yet with something still to say , or that she expected to hear him say . 
The sense of her expectancy benumbed him . 
I couldn't wait for the theatre . 
I had to take the first thing that offered I took this . 
He pushed on haltingly I'm glad extremely glad you're happy here . 
I'd counted on your letting me know if there was anything I could do . 
The theatre , now if you still regret it if you're not contented here . 
and ever since I've been wanting to be of use to do something , anything , to help you . 
She heard him through , motionless , without a quiver of the clasped hands she rested on the edge of the table . 
If you want to help me , then you can help me to stay here , she brought out with low toned intensity . 
Through the stillness of the pause which followed , the bray of a motor horn sounded far down the drive . 
Instantly she turned , with a last white look at him , and fled from the room and up the stairs . 
He stood motionless , benumbed by the shock of her last words . 
She was afraid , then afraid of him sick with fear of him ! The discovery beat him down to a lower depth . 
The motor horn sounded again , close at hand , and he turned and went up to his room . 
Upstairs , the room held out the intimate welcome of its lamp and fire . 
Everything in it exhaled the same sense of peace and stability which , two evenings before , had lulled him to complacent meditation . 
His five minutes with Sophy Viner had flashed strange lights into the shadowy corners of his consciousness . 
The girl's absolute candour , her hard ardent honesty , was for the moment the vividest point in his thoughts . 
He was so struck by the frankness and energy of the proceeding that for a moment he lost sight of the view of his own character implied in it . 
poor thing ! he could only go on saying and with the repetition of the words the picture of himself as she must see him pitiably took shape again . 
He had fallen below his own standard of sentimental loyalty , and if he thought of Sophy Viner it was mainly as the chance instrument of his lapse . 
These considerations were not agreeable to his pride , but they were forced on him by the example of her valiant common sense . 
If he had cut a sorry figure in the business , he owed it to her not to close his eyes to the fact any longer . 
The fact that that duty was paramount did not do away with the contingent obligations . 
XVI In the oak room he found Mrs. Leath , her mother in law and Effie . 
The group , as he came toward it down the long drawing rooms , composed itself prettily about the tea table . 
She did not move at Darrow's approach , but lifted to him a deep gaze of peace and confidence . 
The look seemed to throw about him the spell of a divine security he felt the joy of a convalescent suddenly waking to find the sunlight on his face . 
Darrow took a chair behind the little girl , so that he might look across at her mother . 
Effie abandoned the terrier to fly to him . 
Nobody knows where I go , or what I see when I get there that's the beauty of it ! he laughed back at her . 
But if you're good , he added , I'll tell you about it one of these days . 
Oh , now , Owen , now ! I don't really believe I'll ever be much better than I am now . 
Where's Miss Viner ? he asked , as Effie climbed up on him . 
Why isn't she here to chain up this ungovernable infant ? Poor Miss Viner has a headache . 
Effie says she went to her room as soon as lessons were over , and sent word that she wouldn't be down for tea . 
Ah , said Owen , abruptly setting down his cup . 
He stood up , lit another cigarette , and wandered away to the piano in the room beyond . 
From the twilight where he sat a lonely music , borne on fantastic chords , floated to the group about the tea table . 
Under its influence Madame de Chantelle's meditative pauses increased in length and frequency , and Effie stretched herself on the hearth , her drowsy head against the dog . 
Presently her nurse appeared , and Anna rose at the same time . 
Stop a minute in my sitting room on your way up , she paused to say to Darrow as she went . 
A few hours earlier , her request would have brought him instantly to his feet . 
But now he sat motionless , as if spell bound by the play of Madame de Chantelle's needles and the pulsations of Owen's fitful music . 
From her writing table , where she sat over a pile of letters , Anna lifted her happy smile . 
The impulse to press his lips to it made him come close and draw her upward . 
She threw her head back , as if surprised at the abruptness of the gesture then her face leaned to his with the slow droop of a flower . 
He felt again the sweep of the secret tides , and all his fears went down in them . 
She sat down in the sofa corner by the fire and he drew an armchair close to her . 
His gaze roamed peacefully about the quiet room . 
It's just like you it is you , he said , as his eyes came back to her . 
It's a good place to be alone in I don't think I've ever before cared to talk with any one here . 
Let's be quiet , then it's the best way of talking . 
Yes but we must save it up till later . 
There are things I want to say to you now . 
He leaned back in his chair . 
Say them , then , and I'll listen . 
I want you to tell me about Miss Viner . 
About Miss Viner ? He summoned up a look of faint interrogation . 
He thought she seemed surprised at his surprise . 
It's important , naturally , she explained , that I should find out all I can about her before I leave . 
Important on Effie's account ? On Effie's account of course . 
But you've every reason to be satisfied , haven't you ? Every apparent reason . 
Effie's very fond of her , and she seems to have a delightful influence on the child . 
But we know so little , after all about her antecedents , I mean , and her past history . 
That's why I want you to try and recall everything you heard about her when you used to see her in London . 
Oh , on that score I'm afraid I sha'n't be of much use . 
As I told you , she was a mere shadow in the background of the house I saw her in and that was four or five years ago . 
When she was with a Mrs. Murrett ? Yes an appalling woman who runs a roaring dinner factory that used now and then to catch me in its wheels . 
I escaped from them long ago but in my time there used to be half a dozen fagged 'hands' to tend the machine , and Miss Viner was one of them . 
I'm glad she's out of it , poor girl ! Then you never really saw anything of her there ? I never had the chance . 
Mrs. Murrett discouraged any competition on the part of her subordinates . 
But surely , he went on after a pause , you could have found out about her from the people through whom you first heard of her ? Anna smiled . 
It's all the odder because my mother in law , since her second marriage , has lived so much in the country that she's practically lost sight of all her other American friends . 
Besides which , you can see how completely she has identified herself with Monsieur de Chantelle's nationality and adopted French habits and prejudices . 
Well , then , if South Braintree vouches for Miss Viner Oh , but only indirectly . 
I've always told you that what you wanted for Effie was a sweet American girl , and not one of these nasty foreigners . 
I was only too thankful to find anyone who was vouched for by decent people and so far I've had no cause to regret my choice . 
Since you've got to leave Effie I understand your feeling in that way . 
Only , naturally , when I found you'd known her in London I was in hopes you'd give me some more specific reasons for liking her as much as I do . 
I'm afraid I can give you nothing more specific than my general vague impression that she seems very plucky and extremely nice . 
I only infer that she must have pluck and character to have stuck it out so long at Mrs. Murrett's . 
Yes , poor thing ! She has pluck , certainly and pride , too which must have made it all the harder . 
Anna rose to her feet . 
You don't know how glad I am that your impression's on the whole so good . 
I particularly wanted you to like her . 
He drew her to him with a smile . 
On that condition I'm prepared to love even Adelaide Painter . 
I almost hope you wont have the chance to poor Adelaide ! Her appearance here always coincides with a catastrophe . 
Oh , then I must manage to meet her elsewhere . 
She answered absently It must be time to dress then she drew back a little and laid her hands on his shoulders . 
My love oh , my dear love ! she said . 
A knock on the door made them draw apart . 
Anna lifted her hand to her hair and Darrow stooped to examine a photograph of Effie on the writing table . 
Come in ! Anna said . 
The door opened and Sophy Viner entered . 
Seeing Darrow , she drew back . 
Do come in , Miss Viner , Anna repeated , looking at her kindly . 
The girl , a quick red in her cheeks , still hesitated on the threshold . 
I'm so sorry but Effie has mislaid her Latin grammar , and I thought she might have left it here . 
I need it to prepare for tomorrow's lesson . 
Is this it ? Darrow asked , picking up a book from the table . 
Oh , thank you ! He held it out to her and she took it and moved to the door . 
You mustn't sit up over tomorrow's lessons if you don't feel well . 
But you see I have to . 
Latin's one of my weak points , and there's generally only one page of this book between me and Effie . 
She threw the words off with a half ironic smile . 
Do excuse my disturbing you , she added . 
You didn't disturb me , Anna answered . 
Darrow perceived that she was looking intently at the girl , as though struck by something tense and tremulous in her face , her voice , her whole mien and attitude . 
You'd much better go straight to bed . 
Effie won't be sorry to skip her Latin . 
Thank you but I'm really all right , murmured Sophy Viner . 
Her glance , making a swift circuit of the room , dwelt for an appreciable instant on the intimate propinquity of arm chair and sofa corner then she turned back to the door . 
BOOK III XVII At dinner that evening Madame de Chantelle's slender monologue was thrown out over gulfs of silence . 
He was sufficiently self possessed to tell himself that it was doubtless due to causes with which he was not directly concerned . 
Possibly Anna had found reason to change her own attitude in the matter , and had made the change known to Owen . 
But Darrow knew that he was too deep in his own perplexities to judge the mental state of those about him . 
It might be , after all , that the variations he felt in the currents of communication were caused by his own inward tremor . 
Ever since the rapid self colloquy which had followed on his first sight of Sophy Viner , he had known there were other questions to be faced behind the one immediately confronting him . 
On the score of that one , at least , his mind , if not easy , was relieved . 
He had done what was possible to reassure the girl , and she had apparently recognized the sincerity of his intention . 
Darrow was not much afraid of accidental disclosures . 
Both he and Sophy Viner had too much at stake not to be on their guard . 
The fear that beset him was of another kind , and had a profounder source . 
He wanted to do all he could for the girl , but the fact of having had to urge Anna to confide Effie to her was peculiarly repugnant to him . 
Till late in the night his thoughts revolved in a turmoil of indecision . 
His pride was humbled by the discrepancy between what Sophy Viner had been to him and what he had thought of her . 
This discrepancy , which at the time had seemed to simplify the incident , now turned out to be its most galling complication . 
The essential cheapness of the whole affair as far as his share in it was concerned came home to him with humiliating distinctness . 
But the plain fact was that he hadn't spent a penny on it which was no doubt the reason of the prodigious score it had since been rolling up . 
The night brought no aid to the solving of this problem but it gave him , at any rate , the clear conviction that no time was to be lost . 
His first step must be to obtain from Miss Viner the chance of another and calmer talk and he resolved to seek it at the earliest hour . 
The atmosphere was still and pale . 
The muffled sunlight gleamed like gold tissue through grey gauze , and the beech alleys tapered away to a blue haze blent of sky and forest . 
It was one of those elusive days when the familiar forms of things seem about to dissolve in a prismatic shimmer . 
The stillness was presently broken by joyful barks , and Darrow , tracking the sound , overtook Effie flying down one of the long alleys at the head of her pack . 
Beyond her he saw Miss Viner seated near the stone rimmed basin beside which he and Anna had paused on their first walk to the river . 
The girl , coming forward at his approach , returned his greeting almost gaily . 
His first glance showed him that she had regained her composure , and the change in her appearance gave him the measure of her fears . 
For the first time he saw in her again the sidelong grace that had charmed his eyes in Paris but he saw it now as in a painted picture . 
Shall we sit down a minute ? he asked , as Effie trotted off . 
The girl looked away from him . 
I'm afraid there's not much time we must be back at lessons at half past nine . 
But it's barely ten minutes past . 
Let's at least walk a little way toward the river . 
She glanced down the long walk ahead of them and then back in the direction of the house . 
Darrow was struck , and vaguely troubled , by the change in her look and tone . 
There was in them an undefinable appeal , whether for help or forbearance he could not tell . 
Then it occurred to him that there might have been something misleading in his so pointedly seeking her , and he felt a momentary constraint . 
To ease it he made an abrupt dash at the truth . 
I came out to look for you because our talk of yesterday was so unsatisfactory . 
I want to hear more about you about your plans and prospects . 
I've been wondering ever since why you've so completely given up the theatre . 
Her face instantly sharpened to distrust . 
I had to live , she said in an off hand tone . 
I understand perfectly that you should like it here for a time . 
His glance strayed down the gold roofed windings ahead of them . 
It's delightful you couldn't be better placed . 
Only I wonder a little at your having so completely given up any idea of a different future . 
She waited for a moment before answering I suppose I'm less restless than I used to be . 
It's certainly natural that you should be less restless here than at Mrs. Murrett's yet somehow I don't seem to see you permanently given up to forming the young . 
What exactly DO you seem to see me permanently given up to ? You know you warned me rather emphatically against the theatre . 
She threw off the statement without impatience , as though they were discussing together the fate of a third person in whom both were benevolently interested . 
If I did , it was because you so emphatically refused to let me help you to a start . 
She stopped short and faced him And you think I may let you now ? Darrow felt the blood in his cheek . 
He could not understand her attitude if indeed she had consciously taken one , and her changes of tone did not merely reflect the involuntary alternations of her mood . 
It humbled him to perceive once more how little he had to guide him in his judgment of her . 
He said to himself If I'd ever cared a straw for her I should know how to avoid hurting her now and his insensibility struck him as no better than a vulgar obtuseness . 
But he had a fixed purpose ahead and could only push on to it . 
I hope , at any rate , you'll listen to my reasons . 
She walked on beside him , her eyes on the ground . 
Oh , no , not more ! If you show any at all , it must , at any rate , be for different reasons . 
Darrow stood still in the path . 
Behind him he heard Effie's call , and at the child's voice he saw Sophy turn her head with the alertness of one who is obscurely on the watch . 
The look was so fugitive that he could not have said wherein it differed from her normal professional air of having her pupil on her mind . 
Effie sprang past them , and Darrow took up the girl's challenge . 
What you suggest about Mrs. Leath is hardly worth answering . 
As to my reasons for wanting to help you , a good deal depends on the words one uses to define rather indefinite things . 
It's true enough that I want to help you but the wish isn't due to . 
to any past kindness on your part , but simply to my own interest in you . 
Why not put it that our friendship gives me the right to intervene for what I believe to be your benefit ? She took a few hesitating steps and then paused again . 
Darrow noticed that she had grown pale and that there were rings of shade about her eyes . 
You've known Mrs. Leath a long time ? she asked him suddenly . 
He paused with a sense of approaching peril . 
She told me you were friends great friends Yes , he admitted , we're great friends . 
Then you might naturally feel yourself justified in telling her that you don't think I'm the right person for Effie . 
He uttered a sound of protest , but she disregarded it . 
I don't say you'd LIKE to do it . 
You wouldn't you'd hate it . 
And the natural alternative would be to try to persuade me that I'd be better off somewhere else than here . 
But supposing that failed , and you saw I was determined to stay ? THEN you might think it your duty to tell Mrs. Leath . 
She laid the case before him with a cold lucidity . 
I should , in your place , I believe , she ended with a little laugh . 
And that's what you're trying to tell me now ? Yes but not for the reasons you imagine . 
What , then , are your reasons , if you please ? I've already implied them in advising you not to give up all idea of the theatre . 
You're too various , too gifted , too personal , to tie yourself down , at your age , to the dismal drudgery of teaching . 
And is THAT what you've told Mrs. Leath ? She rushed the question out at him as if she expected to trip him up over it . 
He was moved by the simplicity of the stratagem . 
I've told her exactly nothing , he replied . 
And what exactly do you mean by 'nothing' ? You and she were talking about me when I came into her sitting room yesterday . 
Darrow felt his blood rise at the thrust . 
I've told her , simply , that I'd seen you once or twice at Mrs. Murrett's . 
And not that you've ever seen me since ? And not that I've ever seen you since . 
And she believes you she completely believes you ? He uttered a protesting exclamation , and his flush reflected itself in the girl's cheek . 
Oh , I beg your pardon ! I didn't mean to ask you that . 
She halted , and again cast a rapid glance behind and ahead of her . 
Then she held out her hand . 
Well , then , thank you and let me relieve your fears . 
I sha'n't be Effie's governess much longer . 
At the announcement , Darrow tried to merge his look of relief into the expression of friendly interest with which he grasped her hand . 
You really do agree with me , then ? And you'll give me a chance to talk things over with you ? She shook her head with a faint smile . 
I'm not thinking of the stage . 
I've had another offer that's all . 
The relief was hardly less great . 
After all , his personal responsibility ceased with her departure from Givre . 
You'll tell me about that , then won't you ? Her smile flickered up . 
Oh , you'll hear about it soon . 
I must catch Effie now and drag her back to the blackboard . 
She walked on for a few yards , and then paused again and confronted him . 
I've been odious to you and not quite honest , she broke out suddenly . 
Not quite honest ? he repeated , caught in a fresh wave of wonder . 
I mean , in seeming not to trust you . 
It's come over me again as we talked that , at heart , I've always KNOWN I could . 
Her colour rose in a bright wave , and her eyes clung to his for a swift instant of reminder and appeal . 
For the same space of time the past surged up in him confusedly then a veil dropped between them . 
Here's Effie now ! she exclaimed . 
He turned and saw the little girl trotting back to them , her hand in Owen Leath's . 
Even through the stir of his subsiding excitement Darrow was at once aware of the change effected by the young man's approach . 
For a moment Sophy Viner's cheeks burned redder then they faded to the paleness of white petals . 
She lost , however , nothing of the bright bravery which it was her way to turn on the unexpected . 
But her observer was less struck by this than by the corresponding change in Owen Leath . 
The latter , when he came in sight , had been laughing and talking unconcernedly with Effie but as his eye fell on Miss Viner his expression altered as suddenly as hers . 
The change , for Darrow , was less definable but , perhaps for that reason , it struck him as more sharply significant . 
In moments of excitement his odd irregular features seemed to grow fluid , to unmake and remake themselves like the shadows of clouds on a stream . 
The thought was so disturbing that , as the three turned back to the house , he was on the point of saying to Owen I came out to look for your mother . 
But , in the contingency he feared , even so simple a phrase might seem like an awkward attempt at explanation and he walked on in silence at Miss Viner's side . 
Presently he was struck by the fact that Owen Leath and the girl were silent also and this gave a new turn to his thoughts . 
Silence may be as variously shaded as speech and that which enfolded Darrow and his two companions seemed to his watchful perceptions to be quivering with cross threads of communication . 
At first he was aware only of those that centred in his own troubled consciousness then it occurred to him that an equal activity of intercourse was going on outside of it . 
XVIII Anna Leath , from the terrace , watched the return of the little group . 
She looked down on them , as they advanced across the garden , from the serene height of her unassailable happiness . 
There they were , coming toward her in the mild morning light , her child , her step son , her promised husband the three beings who filled her life . 
She smiled a little at the happy picture they presented , Effie's gambols encircling it in a moving frame within which the two men came slowly forward in the silence of friendly understanding . 
Anna herself , at the moment , was floating in the mid current of felicity , on a tide so bright and buoyant that she seemed to be one with its warm waves . 
I feel as if I could trust my happiness to carry me as if it had grown out of me like wings . 
So she phrased it to Darrow , as , later in the morning , they paced the garden paths together . 
His answering look gave her the same assurance of safety . 
Upstairs in her sitting room , that afternoon , she was thinking of these things . 
The morning mists had turned to rain , compelling the postponement of an excursion in which the whole party were to have joined . 
She was roused by the sound of Owen's step in the gallery outside her room . 
I've spoken to her myself , he said . 
Anna started up , incredulous . 
You've spoken to her ? When ? Just now . 
I left her to come here . 
Anna's first feeling was one of annoyance . 
There was really something comically incongruous in this boyish surrender to impulse on the part of a young man so eager to assume the responsibilities of life . 
She looked at him with a faintly veiled amusement . 
You asked me to help you and I promised you I would . 
It was hardly worth while to work out such an elaborate plan of action if you intended to take the matter out of my hands without telling me . 
Oh , don't take that tone with me ! he broke out , almost angrily . 
That tone ? What tone ? She stared at his quivering face . 
I might , she pursued , still half laughing , more properly make that request of YOU ! Owen reddened and his vehemence suddenly subsided . 
I meant that I HAD to speak that's all . 
You don't give me a chance to explain . 
She looked at him gently , wondering a little at her own impatience . 
The right moment ? So was I. That's why I've spoken . 
His voice rose again and took the sharp edge it had in moments of high pressure . 
His step mother turned away and seated herself in her sofa corner . 
Oh , my dear , it's not a privilege to quarrel over ! You've taken a load off my shoulders . 
Sit down and tell me all about it . 
He stood before her , irresolute . 
I can't sit down , he said . 
Only tell me I'm impatient . 
Anna , her eyes on his face , waited quietly for him to speak . 
Well of course it was just what one expected . 
She takes it so badly , you mean ? All the heavy batteries were brought up my father , Givre , Monsieur de Chantelle , the throne and the altar . 
Even my poor mother was dragged out of oblivion and armed with imaginary protests . 
Anna sighed out her sympathy . 
Well you were prepared for all that ? I thought I was , till I began to hear her say it . 
Then it sounded so incredibly silly that I told her so . 
Oh , Owen Owen ! Yes I know . 
I was a fool but I couldn't help it . 
And you've mortally offended her , I suppose ? That's exactly what I wanted to prevent . 
She laid a hand on his shoulder . 
You tiresome boy , not to wait and let me speak for you ! He moved slightly away , so that her hand slipped from its place . 
You don't understand , he said , frowning . 
I don't see how I can , till you explain . 
He evaded her appeal by a sudden turn . 
What WERE your reasons for waiting ? Anna did not immediately answer . 
Her step son's eyes were on her face , and under his gaze she felt a faint disquietude . 
I was feeling my way . 
I wanted to be absolutely sure . 
Absolutely sure of what ? She delayed again for a just perceptible instant . 
Why , simply of OUR side of the case . 
But you told me you were , the other day , when we talked it over before they came back from Ouchy . 
I want to know what has modified yours . 
She made a slight gesture of impatience . 
What does it matter , now the thing's done ? I don't know that I could give any clear reason . 
He got to his feet and stood looking down on her with a tormented brow . 
But it's absolutely necessary that you should . 
At his tone her impatience flared up . 
It's not necessary that I should give you any explanation whatever , since you've taken the matter out of my hands . 
All I can say is that I was trying to help you that no other thought ever entered my mind . 
She paused a moment and then added If you doubted it , you were right to do what you've done . 
Oh , I never doubted YOU ! he retorted , with a fugitive stress on the pronoun . 
His face had cleared to its old look of trust . 
Don't be offended if I've seemed to , he went on . 
I can't quite explain myself , either . 
Well , the how and why don't much matter now . 
The point is how to deal with your grandmother . 
You've not told me what she means to do . 
Oh , she means to send for Adelaide Painter . 
The name drew a faint note of mirth from him and relaxed both their faces to a smile . 
Perhaps , Anna added , it's really the best thing for us all . 
It's too preposterous and humiliating . 
Dragging that woman into our secrets ! This could hardly be a secret much longer . 
He had moved to the hearth , where he stood pushing about the small ornaments on the mantel shelf but at her answer he turned back to her . 
You haven't , of course , spoken of it to any one ? No but I intend to now . 
She paused for his reply , and as it did not come she continued If Adelaide Painter's to be told there's no possible reason why I shouldn't tell Mr. Darrow . 
Owen abruptly set down the little statuette between his fingers . 
None whatever I want every one to know . 
At her first words the colour had rushed to his forehead but as she continued she saw his face compose itself and his blood subside . 
You're a brick , my dear ! he exclaimed . 
You had my word , you know . 
His face had clouded again . 
And that's all positively all you've ever said to him ? Positively all . 
But why do you ask ? He had a moment's embarrassed hesitation . 
And you're sure that nothing you've said to Darrow could possibly have given him a hint ? Nothing I've said to him certainly . 
He swung about on her . 
Why do you put it in that way ? In what way ? Why as if you thought some one else might have spoken . 
Some one else ? Who else ? She rose to her feet . 
What on earth , my dear boy , can you be driving at ? I'm trying to find out whether you think he knows anything definite . 
Why should I think so ? Do YOU ? I don't know . 
I want to find out . 
She laughed at his obstinate insistence . 
To test my veracity , I suppose ? At the sound of a step in the gallery she added Here he is you can ask him yourself . 
She met Darrow's knock with an invitation to enter , and he came into the room and paused between herself and Owen . 
She was struck , as he stood there , by the contrast between his happy careless good looks and her step son's frowning agitation . 
Darrow met her eyes with a smile . 
Am I too soon ? Or is our walk given up ? No I was just going to get ready . 
She continued to linger between the two , looking slowly from one to the other . 
But there's something we want to tell you first Owen is engaged to Miss Viner . 
The sense of an indefinable interrogation in Owen's mind made her , as she spoke , fix her eyes steadily on Darrow . 
He had paused just opposite the window , so that , even in the rainy afternoon light , his face was clearly open to her scrutiny . 
For a second , immense surprise was alone visible on it so visible that she half turned to her step son , with a faint smile for his refuted suspicions . 
Her next perception was of Owen's tranquillized look , and of his smiling return of Darrow's congratulatory grasp . 
She had the eerie feeling of having been overswept by a shadow which there had been no cloud to cast . 
A moment later Owen had left the room and she and Darrow were alone . 
He had turned away to the window and stood staring out into the down pour . 
You're surprised at Owen's news ? she asked . 
Yes I am surprised , he answered . 
He made no comment , and she pursued Now that you DO know it's she , if there's anything He moved back into the room and went up to her . 
His face was serious , with a slight shade of annoyance . 
What on earth should there be ? As I told you , I've never in my life heard any one say two words about Miss Viner . 
Anna made no answer and they continued to face each other without moving . 
He glanced back doubtfully at the window . 
Perhaps you'd rather not go out ? She hesitated , as if waiting for him to urge her . 
I suppose I'd better not . 
I ought to go at once to my mother in law Owen's just been telling her , she said . 
He held it open for her and followed her out . 
XIX He left her at the door of Madame de Chantelle's sitting room , and plunged out alone into the rain . 
The wind flung about the stripped tree tops of the avenue and dashed the stinging streams into his face . 
He walked to the gate and then turned into the high road and strode along in the open , buffeted by slanting gusts . 
The evenly ridged fields were a blurred waste of mud , and the russet coverts which he and Owen had shot through the day before shivered desolately against a driving sky . 
Darrow walked on and on , indifferent to the direction he was taking . 
His thoughts were tossing like the tree tops . 
But it had been no more than an intuition , the merest faint cloud puff of surmise and now it was an attested fact , darkening over the whole sky . 
In respect of his own attitude , he saw at once that the discovery made no appreciable change . 
Hitherto he had felt for Sophy Viner's defenseless state a sympathy profoundly tinged with compunction . 
But now he was half conscious of an obscure indignation against her . 
Superior as he had fancied himself to ready made judgments , he was aware of cherishing the common doubt as to the disinterestedness of the woman who tries to rise above her past . 
No wonder she had been sick with fear on meeting him ! It was in his power to do her more harm than he had dreamed . 
Assuredly he did not want to harm her but he did desperately want to prevent her marrying Owen Leath . 
As he walked up the black avenue , making for the lights that twinkled through its pitching branches , he had a sudden realisation of his utter helplessness . 
He might think and combine as he would but there was nothing , absolutely nothing , that he could do . 
He dropped his wet coat in the vestibule and began to mount the stairs to his room . 
Somewhat disconcerted by the summons , he followed its bearer to the door at which , a couple of hours earlier , he had taken leave of Mrs. Leath . 
Madame de Chantelle's emergence from an inner room snatched Darrow from these irrelevant musings . 
Her own reception of Darrow , the confidence she had at once accorded him , must have shown him that she had instinctively felt their unanimity of sentiment on these fundamental questions . 
Anna is 'modern' I believe that's what it's called when you read unsettling books and admire hideous pictures . 
Indeed , Madame de Chantelle continued , leaning confidentially forward , I myself have always more or less lived in that atmosphere my son , you know , was very revolutionary . 
Only he didn't , of course , apply his ideas they were purely intellectual . 
That's what dear Anna has always failed to understand . 
And I'm afraid she's created the same kind of confusion in Owen's mind led him to mix up things you read about with things you do . 
You know , of course , that she sides with him in this wretched business ? Developing at length upon this theme , she finally narrowed down to the point of Darrow's intervention . 
My grandson , Mr. Darrow , calls me illogical and uncharitable because my feelings toward Miss Viner have changed since I've heard this news . 
But what's that got to do with it ? I don't want her to marry my grandson . 
If I'd been looking for a wife for Owen , I shouldn't have applied to the Farlows to find me one . 
That's what Anna won't understand and what you must help me to make her see . 
Darrow , to this appeal , could oppose only the repeated assurance of his inability to interfere . 
He tried to make Madame de Chantelle see that the very position he hoped to take in the household made his intervention the more hazardous . 
Madame de Chantelle drew a deep sigh of intelligence . 
Your opinion of Mrs. Murrett is enough ! I don't suppose you pretend to conceal THAT ? And heaven knows what other unspeakable people she's been mixed up with . 
The only friends she can produce are called Hoke . 
Don't try to reason with me , Mr. Darrow . 
There are feelings that go deeper than facts . 
And I KNOW she thought of studying for the stage . 
Madame de Chantelle raised the corner of her lace handkerchief to her eyes . 
I'm old fashioned like my furniture , she murmured . 
And I thought I could count on you , Mr. Darrow . 
But nothing , as yet , had approached the blank misery of mind with which he now set himself to face the fresh questions confronting him . 
How he was to prevent it he did not know to his tormented imagination every issue seemed closed . 
For a fantastic instant he was moved to follow Madame de Chantelle's suggestion and urge Anna to withdraw her approval . 
He understood now that ever since Sophy Viner's arrival at Givre he had felt in Anna the lurking sense of something unexpressed , and perhaps inexpressible , between the girl and himself . 
When at last he fell asleep he had fatalistically committed his next step to the chances of the morrow . 
The first that offered itself was an encounter with Mrs. Leath as he descended the stairs the next morning . 
She had come down already hatted and shod for a dash to the park lodge , where one of the gatekeeper's children had had an accident . 
were the tribute which sensibility was expected to pay to the unusual . 
She told me she'd sent for you she always 'sends for' people in emergencies . 
That again , I suppose , is de l'epoque . 
And failing Adelaide Painter , who can't get here till this afternoon , there was no one but poor you to turn to . 
She put it all lightly , with a lightness that seemed to his tight strung nerves slightly , undefinably over done . 
Do tell me just what you said , he heard Anna pleading and with sudden resolution he affirmed I quite understand your mother in law's feeling as she does . 
The words , when uttered , seemed a good deal less significant than they had sounded to his inner ear and Anna replied without surprise Of course . 
It's inevitable that she should . 
But we shall bring her round in time . 
Under the dripping dome she raised her face to his . 
The words were out with a spring and he felt a clearer air in his brain . 
But her logic hemmed him in . 
You knew yesterday and you assured me then that you hadn't a word to say Against Miss Viner ? The name , once uttered , sounded on and on in his ears . 
But that doesn't necessarily imply that I think her a good match for Owen . 
Anna made no immediate answer . 
When she spoke it was to question Why don't you think her a good match for Owen ? Well Madame de Chantelle's reasons seem to me not quite as negligible as you think . 
Still , one can understand that the match is not what Madame de Chantelle had dreamed of . 
Oh , perfectly if that's all you mean . 
The lodge was in sight , and she hastened her step . 
He strode on beside her in silence , but at the gate she checked him with the question Is it really all you mean ? Of course , he heard himself declare . 
Darrow watched her hasten along the path between the dripping chrysanthemums and enter the lodge . 
Owen had started by motor to fetch the surgeon , but there was still time to communicate with the latter by telephone . 
Darrow , as he hurried off on this errand , had at once perceived the opportunity it offered of a word with Sophy Viner . 
What that word was to be he did not know but now , if ever , was the moment to make it urgent and conclusive . 
It was unlikely that he would again have such a chance of unobserved talk with her . 
Darrow sent her word that he was the bearer of a message from the lodge , and a moment later he heard her coming down the stairs . 
XX For a second , as she approached him , the quick tremor of her glance showed her all intent on the same thought as himself . 
He transmitted his instructions with mechanical precision , and she answered in the same tone , repeating his words with the intensity of attention of a child not quite sure of understanding . 
Then she disappeared up the stairs . 
Darrow lingered on in the hall , not knowing if she meant to return , yet inwardly sure she would . 
At length he saw her coming down in her hat and jacket . 
She didn't ask for you , he returned , wondering how he could detain her but she answered decidedly I'd better go . 
He held open the door , picked up his umbrella and followed her out . 
As they went down the steps she glanced back at him . 
She had no umbrella , and he opened his and held it out to her . 
She rejected it with a murmur of thanks and walked on through the thin drizzle , and he kept the umbrella over his own head , without offering to shelter her . 
Rapidly and in silence they crossed the court and began to walk down the avenue . 
If I'd known that your future was already settled I should have spared you my gratuitous suggestions . 
She walked on , more slowly , for a yard or two . 
I meant to have told you today . 
Oh , I'm not reproaching you for your lack of confidence . 
Only , if you HAD told me , I should have been more sure of your really meaning what you said to me yesterday . 
She did not ask him to what he referred , and he saw that her parting words to him lived as vividly in her memory as in his . 
Is it so important that you should be sure ? she finally questioned . 
Not to you , naturally , he returned with involuntary asperity . 
A rush of rain dashed against his face , and , catching Sophy's hat , strained it back from her loosened hair . 
She put her hands to her head with a familiar gesture . 
He came closer and held his umbrella over her . 
At the lodge he waited while she went in . 
The rain continued to stream down on him and he shivered in the dampness and stamped his feet on the flags . 
It seemed to him that a long time elapsed before the door opened and she reappeared . 
He glanced into the house for a glimpse of Anna , but obtained none yet the mere sense of her nearness had completely altered his mood . 
The child , Sophy told him , was doing well but Mrs. Leath had decided to wait till the surgeon came . 
Darrow , as they turned away , looked through the gates , and saw the doctor's old fashioned carriage by the roadside . 
Let me tell the doctor's boy to drive you back , he suggested but Sophy answered No I'll walk , and he moved on toward the house at her side . 
She expressed no surprise at his not remaining at the lodge , and again they walked on in silence through the rain . 
What I meant just now , he began , was that you ought to have been sure of my good wishes . 
She seemed to weigh the words . 
Sure enough for what ? To trust me a little farther than you did . 
I've told you that yesterday I wasn't free to speak . 
I can't think what you can have to say . 
It's not easy to say here , at any rate . 
And indoors I sha'n't know where to say it . 
He glanced about him in the rain . 
Let's walk over to the spring house for a minute . 
Other steps curved up to a door above . 
Darrow mounted these , and opening the door entered a small circular room hung with loosened strips of painted paper whereon spectrally faded Mandarins executed elongated gestures . 
Some black and gold chairs with straw seats and an unsteady table of cracked lacquer stood on the floor of red glazed tile . 
Sophy had followed him without comment . 
He closed the door after her , and she stood motionless , as though waiting for him to speak . 
Now we can talk quietly , he said , looking at her with a smile into which he tried to put an intention of the frankest friendliness . 
She merely repeated I can't think what you can have to say . 
Her voice had lost the note of half wistful confidence on which their talk of the previous day had closed , and she looked at him with a kind of pale hostility . 
Her tone made it evident that his task would be difficult , but it did not shake his resolve to go on . 
He sat down , and mechanically she followed his example . 
The table was between them and she rested her arms on its cracked edge and her chin on her interlocked hands . 
He looked at her and she gave him back his look . 
Have you nothing to say to ME ? he asked at length . 
A faint smile lifted , in the remembered way , the left corner of her narrowed lips . 
About my marriage ? About your marriage . 
She continued to consider him between half drawn lids . 
What can I say that Mrs. Leath has not already told you ? Mrs. Leath has told me nothing whatever but the fact and her pleasure in it . 
Well aren't those the two essential points ? The essential points to YOU ? I should have thought Oh , to YOU , I meant , she put in keenly . 
He flushed at the retort , but steadied himself and rejoined The essential point to me is , of course , that you should be doing what's really best for you . 
She sat silent , with lowered lashes . 
At length she stretched out her arm and took up from the table a little threadbare Chinese hand screen . 
Do you think my engagement to Mr. Leath not really best for me ? she asked at length . 
I'm not sure , he replied , of its being the best thing for either of you . 
She took the stroke steadily , but a faint red swept her face like the reflection of a blush . 
She continued to keep her lowered eyes on the screen . 
From whose point of view do you speak ? Naturally , that of the persons most concerned . 
From Owen's , then , of course ? You don't think me a good match for him ? From yours , first of all . 
I don't think him a good match for you . 
He brought the answer out abruptly , his eyes on her face . 
It had grown extremely pale , but as the meaning of his words shaped itself in her mind he saw a curious inner light dawn through her set look . 
She lifted her lids just far enough for a veiled glance at him , and a smile slipped through them to her trembling lips . 
For a moment the change merely bewildered him then it pulled him up with a sharp jerk of apprehension . 
I don't think him a good match for you , he stammered , groping for the lost thread of his words . 
She threw a vague look about the chilly rain dimmed room . 
My chief reason is that I believe he's too young and inexperienced to give you the kind of support you need . 
At his words her face changed again , freezing to a tragic coldness . 
She stared straight ahead of her , perceptibly struggling with the tremor of her muscles and when she had controlled it she flung out a pale lipped pleasantry . 
the trivial stupid unimportant things that life is chiefly made up of . 
I'll deal with them for him , she rejoined . 
They'll be more than ordinarily difficult . 
She shot a challenging glance at him . 
You must have some special reason for saying so . 
Only my clear perception of the facts . 
What facts do you mean ? Darrow hesitated . 
You must know better than I , he returned at length , that the way won't be made easy to you . 
Mrs. Leath , at any rate , has made it so . 
Madame de Chantelle will not . 
How do YOU know that ? she flung back . 
He paused again , not sure how far it was prudent to reveal himself in the confidence of the household . 
Then , to avoid involving Anna , he answered Madame de Chantelle sent for me yesterday . 
Sent for you to talk to you about me ? The colour rose to her forehead and her eyes burned black under lowered brows . 
But it did not turn him from his purpose . 
I'm an old friend of Mrs. Leath's . 
It's not unnatural that Madame de Chantelle should talk to me . 
She walked away a step or two and then came back . 
May I ask what Madame de Chantelle said to you ? She made it clear that she should not encourage the marriage . 
And what was her object in making that clear to YOU ? Darrow hesitated . 
I suppose she thought That she could persuade you to turn Mrs. Leath against me ? He was silent , and she pressed him Was that it ? That was it . 
But if you don't if you keep your promise My promise ? To say nothing . 
Her strained look threw a haggard light along the pause . 
As she spoke , the whole odiousness of the scene rushed over him . 
Of course I shall say nothing . 
He leaned to her and laid his hand on hers . 
You know I wouldn't for the world . 
She drew back and hid her face with a sob . 
Then she sank again into her seat , stretched her arms across the table and laid her face upon them . 
He sat still , overwhelmed with compunction . 
After a long interval , in which he had painfully measured the seconds by her hard drawn breathing , she looked up at him with a face washed clear of bitterness . 
Don't suppose I don't know what you must have thought of me ! The cry struck him down to a lower depth of self abasement . 
She sat silent , drumming the table with her hand . 
Suddenly she began to speak . 
You think , then , I've no right to marry him ? No right ? God forbid ! I only meant That you'd rather I didn't marry any friend of yours . 
She brought it out deliberately , not as a question , but as a mere dispassionate statement of fact . 
Darrow in turn stood up and wandered away helplessly to the window . 
He stood staring out through its small discoloured panes at the dim brown distances then he moved back to the table . 
I'll tell you exactly what I meant . 
You'll be wretched if you marry a man you're not in love with . 
He knew the risk of misapprehension that he ran , but he estimated his chances of success as precisely in proportion to his peril . 
If certain signs meant what he thought they did , he might yet at what cost he would not stop to think make his past pay for his future . 
The girl , at his words , had lifted her head with a movement of surprise . 
Her eyes slowly reached his face and rested there in a gaze of deep interrogation . 
He held the look for a moment then his own eyes dropped and he waited . 
At length she began to speak . 
You're mistaken you're quite mistaken . 
He waited a moment longer . 
Mistaken ? In thinking what you think . 
I'm as happy as if I deserved it ! she suddenly proclaimed with a laugh . 
She stood up and moved toward the door . 
NOW are you satisfied ? she asked , turning her vividest face to him from the threshold . 
XXI Down the avenue there came to them , with the opening of the door , the voice of Owen's motor . 
It was the signal which had interrupted their first talk , and again , instinctively , they drew apart at the sound . 
Without a word Darrow turned back into the room , while Sophy Viner went down the steps and walked back alone toward the court . 
It was the first time that he had seen young Leath and Sophy Viner together since he had learned of their engagement but neither revealed more emotion than befitted the occasion . 
So Darrow interpreted the tension perceptible under the fluent exchange of commonplaces in which he was diligently sharing . 
But he was more and more aware of his inability to test the moral atmosphere about him he was like a man in fever testing another's temperature by the touch . 
After luncheon Anna , who was to motor the surgeon home , suggested to Darrow that he should accompany them . 
Effie was also of the party and Darrow inferred that Anna wished to give her step son a chance to be alone with his betrothed . 
Darrow knew that Mrs. Leath had not yet told Effie of the relation in which he was to stand to her . 
The premature divulging of Owen's plans had thrown their own into the background , and by common consent they continued , in the little girl's presence , on terms of an informal friendliness . 
The sky had cleared after luncheon , and to prolong their excursion they returned by way of the ivy mantled ruin which was to have been the scene of the projected picnic . 
He had the impression that she was slightly surprised at his not waiting for her but his inner restlessness vented itself in an intense desire for bodily movement . 
He would have liked to walk himself into a state of torpor to tramp on for hours through the moist winds and the healing darkness and come back staggering with fatigue and sleep . 
But he had no pretext for such a flight , and he feared that , at such a moment , his prolonged absence might seem singular to Anna . 
As he approached the house , the thought of her nearness produced a swift reaction of mood . 
It was as if an intenser vision of her had scattered his perplexities like morning mists . 
At this moment , wherever she was , he knew he was safely shut away in her thoughts , and the knowledge made every other fact dwindle away to a shadow . 
He and she loved each other , and their love arched over them open and ample as the day in all its sunlit spaces there was no cranny for a fear to lurk . 
In a few minutes he would be in her presence and would read his reassurance in her eyes . 
I suppose you've been tramping through all this nasty clammy mud as if you'd been taking a stroll on Boston Common . 
My name is Adelaide Painter . 
Have you been in Boston lately ? No ? I'm sorry for that . 
I hear there have been several new houses built at the lower end of Commonwealth Avenue and I hoped you could tell me about them . 
I haven't been there for thirty years myself . 
Miss Painter's arrival at Givre produced the same effect as the wind's hauling around to the north after days of languid weather . 
When Darrow joined the group about the tea table she had already given a tingle to the air . 
Madame de Chantelle still remained invisible above stairs but Darrow had the impression that even through her drawn curtains and bolted doors a stimulating whiff must have entered . 
Anna was in her usual seat behind the tea tray , and Sophy Viner presently led in her pupil . 
Darrow further took note that the girl and her suitor perceptibly avoided each other but this might be a natural result of the tension Miss Painter had been summoned to relieve . 
It was not that she said anything remarkable , or betrayed any of those unspoken perceptions which give significance to the most commonplace utterances . 
All this , as Darrow was aware , still fell short of accounting for the influence she obviously exerted on the persons in contact with her . 
It brought a slight relief to his state of tension to go on wondering , while he watched and listened , just where the mystery lurked . 
Darrow conjectured that the real clash of arms would not take place till the morrow and wishing to leave the field open to the contestants he set out early on a solitary walk . 
It was nearly luncheon time when he returned from it and came upon Anna just emerging from the house . 
She had on her hat and jacket and was apparently coming forth to seek him , for she said at once Madame de Chantelle wants you to go up to her . 
To go up to her ? Now ? That's the message she sent . 
She appears to rely on you to do something . 
But what in the name of goodness can I do ? he protested , following Anna back into the hall . 
But Owen seems so to rely on you , too Owen ! Is HE to be there ? No. But you know I told him he could count on you . 
But I've said to your mother in law all I could . 
Well , then you can only repeat it . 
This did not seem to Darrow to simplify his case as much as she appeared to think and once more he had a movement of recoil . 
There's no possible reason for my being mixed up in this affair ! Anna gave him a reproachful glance . 
Not the fact that I am ? she reminded him but even this only stiffened his resistance . 
Why should you be , either to this extent ? The question made her pause . 
Oh , well Darrow acquiesced , in the tone of the man who perforce yields to so lovely an unreasonableness . 
Escape was , after all , impossible , and he could only resign himself to being led to Madame de Chantelle's door . 
Within , among the bric a brac and furbelows , he found Miss Painter seated in a redundant purple armchair with the incongruous air of a horseman bestriding a heavy mount . 
Madame de Chantelle sat opposite , still a little wan and disordered under her elaborate hair , and clasping the handkerchief whose visibility symbolized her distress . 
But Anna declares you have on hers ! He could not restrain a smile at this faint flaw in an impartiality so scrupulous . 
Every evidence of feminine inconsequence in Anna seemed to attest her deeper subjection to the most inconsequent of passions . 
He had certainly promised her his help but before he knew what he was promising . 
He met Madame de Chantelle's appeal by replying If there were anything I could possibly say I should want it to be in Miss Viner's favour . 
You'd want it to be yes ! But could you make it so ? As far as facts go , I don't see how I can make it either for or against her . 
I've already said that I know nothing of her except that she's charming . 
As if that weren't enough weren't all there OUGHT to be ! Miss Painter put in impatiently . 
She seemed to address herself to Darrow , though her small eyes were fixed on her friend . 
In our country it's enough to know that a young girl's pure and lovely people don't immediately ask her to show her bank account and her visiting list . 
Madame de Chantelle looked plaintively at her sturdy monitress . 
You don't expect me not to ask if she's got a family ? No nor to think the worse of her if she hasn't . 
The fact that she's an orphan ought , with your ideas , to be a merit . 
You won't have to invite her father and mother to Givre ! Adelaide Adelaide ! the mistress of Givre lamented . 
The shrewdness of the answer increased Darrow's interest in Miss Painter . 
She had not hitherto struck him as being a person of much penetration , but he now felt sure that her gimlet gaze might bore to the heart of any practical problem . 
Madame de Chantelle sighed out her recognition of the difficulty . 
I haven't a word to say against Miss Viner but she's knocked about so , as it's called , that she must have been mixed up with some rather dreadful people . 
If only Owen could be made to see that if one could get at a few facts , I mean . 
I daresay the sister's one of the dreadful people . 
I've no doubt that with a little time you could rake up dozens of them have her 'traced' , as they call it in detective stories . 
I don't think you'd frighten Owen , but you might it's natural enough he should have been corrupted by those foreign ideas . 
You might even manage to part him from the girl but you couldn't keep him from being in love with her . 
I saw that when I looked them over last evening . 
I said to myself 'It's a real old fashioned American case , as sweet and sound as home made bread . 
You might hustle him into that kind of marriage I daresay you could but if I know Owen , the natural thing would happen before the first baby was weaned . 
When at last he found her alone in her sitting room it was with a sense of liberation so great that he sought no logical justification of it . 
He simply felt that all their destinies were in Miss Painter's grasp , and that , resistance being useless , he could only enjoy the sweets of surrender . 
Anna herself seemed as happy , and for more explicable reasons . 
I don't know how she does it , unless it's by the dead weight of her convictions . 
She detests the French so that she'd back up Owen even if she knew nothing or knew too much of Miss Viner . 
She somehow regards the match as a protest against the corruption of European morals . 
I told Owen that was his great chance , and he's made the most of it . 
What a tactician you are ! You make me feel that I hardly know the rudiments of diplomacy , Darrow smiled at her , abandoning himself to a perilous sense of well being . 
She gave him back his smile . 
The feeling that both resistance and apprehension were vain was working like wine in his veins . 
He had done what he could to deflect the course of events now he could only stand aside and take his chance of safety . 
Underneath this fatalistic feeling was the deep sense of relief that he had , after all , said and done nothing that could in the least degree affect the welfare of Sophy Viner . 
That fact took a millstone off his neck . 
Meanwhile he gave himself up once more to the joy of Anna's presence . 
Once more her eyes and her smile seemed to bound his world . 
He felt that their light would always move with him as the sunset moves before a ship at sea . 
The next day his sense of security was increased by a decisive incident . 
The conclusion of Owen's romance brought his own plans once more to the front . 
But when she finally joined him her first word was for the younger lovers . 
I want to thank you for what you've done for Owen , she began , with her happiest smile . 
Who I ? he laughed . 
Are you confusing me with Miss Painter ? Perhaps I ought to say for ME , she corrected herself . 
You've been even more of a help to us than Adelaide . 
My dear child ! What on earth have I done ? You've managed to hide from Madame de Chantelle that you don't really like poor Sophy . 
Darrow felt the pallour in his cheek . 
Not like her ? What put such an idea into your head ? Oh , it's more than an idea it's a feeling . 
But what difference does it make , after all ? You saw her in such a different setting that it's natural you should be a little doubtful . 
But when you know her better I'm sure you'll feel about her as I do . 
It's going to be hard for me not to feel about everything as you do . 
I want to talk to you about that too . 
You don't know what a weight is off my mind ! With Sophy here for good , I shall feel so differently about leaving Effie . 
I've seen much more accomplished governesses to my cost ! but I've never seen a young thing more gay and kind and human . 
You must have noticed , though you've seen them so little together , how Effie expands when she's with her . 
And that , you know , is what I want . 
Madame de Chantelle will provide the necessary restraint . 
She clasped her hands on his arm . 
Yes , I'm ready to go with you now . 
But first of all this very moment ! you must come with me to Effie . 
She knows , of course , nothing of what's been happening and I want her to be told first about YOU . 
Effie , sought throughout the house , was presently traced to the school room , and thither Darrow mounted with Anna . 
He had never seen her so alight with happiness , and he had caught her buoyancy of mood . 
He kept repeating to himself It's over it's over , as if some monstrous midnight hallucination had been routed by the return of day . 
As they approached the school room door the terrier's barks came to them through laughing remonstrances . 
She's giving him his dinner , Anna whispered , her hand in Darrow's . 
Don't forget the gold fish ! they heard another voice call out . 
Darrow halted on the threshold . 
Oh not now ! Not now ? I mean she'd rather have you tell her first . 
I'll wait for you both downstairs . 
He was aware that she glanced at him intently . 
I'll bring her down at once . 
She opened the door , and as she went in he heard her say No , Sophy , don't go ! I want you both . 
The rest of Darrow's day was a succession of empty and agitating scenes . 
Effie came to him trailing the cloud of glory of his first romance , giving him back the magic hour he had missed and mourned . 
And is Sophy awfully happy about it too ? she had asked , loosening her hold on Darrow's neck to tilt back her head and include her mother in her questioning look . 
Why , dearest , didn't you see she was ? Anna had exclaimed , leaning to the group with radiant eyes . 
The scene had been succeeded by others less poignant but almost as trying . 
Darrow cursed his luck in having , at such a moment , to run the gauntlet of a houseful of interested observers . 
It was a relief to Darrow that he was under a positive obligation to end his visit within the next forty eight hours . 
When he left London , his Ambassador had accorded him a ten days' leave . 
She was still at the age when the least adornment embellishes and no doubt the mere uncovering of her young throat and neck had given her back her former brightness . 
But a second glance showed a more precise reason for his impression . 
Vaguely though he retained such details , he felt sure she was wearing the dress he had seen her in every evening in Paris . 
He looked at her in silence , and for an instant , above Effie's bobbing head , she gave him back his look in a full bright gaze . 
Oh , there's Owen ! Effie cried , and whirled away down the gallery to the door from which her step brother was emerging . 
As Owen bent to catch her , Sophy Viner turned abruptly back to Darrow . 
You , too ? she said with a quick laugh . 
In spite of flowers , champagne and a unanimous attempt at ease , there were frequent lapses in the talk , and moments of nervous groping for new subjects . 
Miss Painter alone seemed not only unaffected by the general perturbation but as tightly sealed up in her unconsciousness of it as a diver in his bell . 
To Darrow's strained attention even Owen's gusts of gaiety seemed to betray an inward sense of insecurity . 
After dinner , however , at the piano , he broke into a mood of extravagant hilarity and flooded the room with the splash and ripple of his music . 
Darrow , sunk in a sofa corner in the lee of Miss Painter's granite bulk , smoked and listened in silence , his eyes moving from one figure to another . 
The accident of her having fallen into the same attitude , and of her wearing the same dress , gave Darrow , as he watched her , a strange sense of double consciousness . 
Suddenly Owen broke off with a crash of chords and jumped to his feet . 
What's the use of this , with such a moon to say it for us ? Behind the uncurtained window a low golden orb hung like a ripe fruit against the glass . 
Yes let's go out and listen , Anna answered . 
Owen threw open the window , and with his gesture a fold of the heavy star sprinkled sky seemed to droop into the room like a drawn in curtain . 
The air that entered with it had a frosty edge , and Anna bade Effie run to the hall for wraps . 
Darrow said You must have one too , and started toward the door but Sophy , following her pupil , cried back We'll bring things for everybody . 
Owen had followed her , and in a moment the three reappeared , and the party went out on the terrace . 
Darrow and Anna , with Effie between them , strolled to the farther corner of the terrace . 
Below them , between the fringes of the park , the lawn sloped dimly to the fields above the river . 
For a few minutes they stood silently side by side , touched to peace beneath the trembling beauty of the sky . 
When they turned back , Darrow saw that Owen and Sophy Viner , who had gone down the steps to the garden , were also walking in the direction of the house . 
A moment later they were all together again on the terrace , and when they re entered the drawing room the older ladies were on their way to bed . 
In her pupil's wake she made her round of good nights but when she proffered her hand to Anna , the latter ignoring the gesture held out both arms . 
Good night , dear child , she said impulsively , and drew the girl to her kiss . 
It was just a week since his arrival at Givre , and Anna wished , before he left , to return to the place where they had sat on their first afternoon together . 
That bliss , in the interval , had wound itself into every fold of her being . 
Passing , in the first days , from a high shy tenderness to the rush of a secret surrender , it had gradually widened and deepened , to flow on in redoubled beauty . 
She thought she now knew exactly how and why she loved Darrow , and she could see her whole sky reflected in the deep and tranquil current of her love . 
Early the next day , in her sitting room , she was glancing through the letters which it was Effie's morning privilege to carry up to her . 
Anna held out her arms with a faint blush . 
You do like him , don't you , dear ? Oh , most awfully , dearest , Effie , against her breast , leaned back to assure her with a limpid look . 
And so do Granny and Owen and I DO think Sophy does too , she added , after a moment's earnest pondering . 
I hope so , Anna laughed . 
Nothing could have been more distasteful to her than to clear up such obscurities by turning on them the tiny flame of her daughter's observation . 
There's Nurse to carry you off . 
It's Sophy's knock , the little girl answered , jumping down to open the door and Miss Viner in fact stood on the threshold . 
Come in , Anna said with a smile , instantly remarking how pale she looked . 
May Effie go out for a turn with Nurse ? the girl asked . 
I should like to speak to you a moment . 
This ought to be YOUR holiday , as yesterday was Effie's . 
Run off , dear , she added , stooping to kiss the little girl . 
When the door had closed she turned back to Sophy Viner with a look that sought her confidence . 
I'm so glad you came , my dear . 
We've got so many things to talk about , just you and I together . 
Anna had exacted of Owen that no one , not even Sophy Viner , should be given a hint of her own projects till all contingent questions had been disposed of . 
She had felt , from the outset , a secret reluctance to intrude her securer happiness on the doubts and fears of the young pair . 
From the sofa corner to which she had dropped back she pointed to Darrow's chair . 
Come and sit by me , dear . 
I wanted to see you alone . 
There's so much to say that I hardly know where to begin . 
She leaned forward , her hands clasped on the arms of the sofa , her eyes bent smilingly on Sophy's . 
As she did so , she noticed that the girl's unusual pallour was partly due to the slight veil of powder on her face . 
The discovery was distinctly disagreeable . 
This idea was scarcely less distasteful than the other , and for a moment Anna continued to consider her without speaking . 
Then , in a flash , the truth came to her Miss Viner had powdered her face because Miss Viner had been crying . 
My dear child , what's the matter ? She saw the girl's blood rush up under the white mask , and hastened on Please don't be afraid to tell me . 
I do so want you to feel that you can trust me as Owen does . 
And you know you mustn't mind if , just at first , Madame de Chantelle occasionally relapses . 
She spoke eagerly , persuasively , almost on a note of pleading . 
Yes , Sophy Viner had their look almost the obscurely menacing look of Kitty Mayne . 
Anna , with an inward smile , brushed aside the image of this forgotten rival . 
She laid her hand on the girl's . 
When his grandmother sees how happy Owen is she'll be quite happy herself . 
If it's only that , don't be distressed . 
Just trust to Owen and the future . 
Sophy Viner , with an almost imperceptible recoil of her whole slight person , had drawn her hand from under the palm enclosing it . 
That's what I wanted to talk to you about the future . 
Of course ! We've all so many plans to make and to fit into each other's . 
Please let's begin with yours . 
No plans ? No I should like to go away . 
my friends the Farlows would let me go to them . 
Her voice grew firmer and she lifted her eyes to add I should like to leave today , if you don't mind . 
Anna listened with a rising wonder . 
You want to leave Givre at once ? She gave the idea a moment's swift consideration . 
The girl was evidently trying to steady her voice . 
But I should like to wait a few days to have a little more time to myself . 
Anna continued to consider her kindly . 
My dear child , if you really want to go at once I sha'n't , of course , urge you to stay . 
I suppose you have spoken to Owen ? No. Not yet . 
Anna threw an astonished glance at her . 
You mean to say you haven't told him ? I wanted to tell you first . 
I thought I ought to , on account of Effie . 
Her look cleared as she put forth this reason . 
Oh , Effie ! Anna's smile brushed away the scruple . 
Owen has a right to ask that you should consider him before you think of his sister . 
Of course you shall do just as you wish , she went on , after another thoughtful interval . 
Oh , thank you , Sophy Viner murmured and rose to her feet . 
Anna rose also , vaguely seeking for some word that should break down the girl's resistance . 
You'll tell Owen at once ? she finally asked . 
Anna's first glance told her that his face was unclouded . 
He met her greeting with his happiest smile and turned to lift Sophy's hand to his lips . 
The perception that he was utterly unconscious of any cause for Miss Viner's agitation came to his step mother with a sharp thrill of surprise . 
Darrow's looking for you , he said to her . 
He asked me to remind you that you'd promised to go for a walk with him . 
Anna glanced at the clock . 
She waited and looked again at Sophy Viner , whose troubled eyes seemed to commit their message to her . 
You'd better tell Owen , my dear . 
Owen's look also turned on the girl . 
Tell me what ? Why , what's happened ? Anna summoned a laugh to ease the vague tension of the moment . 
Don't look so startled ! Nothing , except that Sophy proposes to desert us for a while for the Farlows . 
I was afraid she'd run off before long . 
Do please keep her here as long as you can ! Sophy intervened Mrs. Leath's already given me leave to go . 
Already ? To go when ? Today , said Sophy in a low tone , her eyes on Anna's . 
Today ? Why on earth should you go today ? Owen dropped back a step or two , flushing and paling under his bewildered frown . 
His eyes seemed to search the girl more closely . 
He too looked at his step mother . 
I suppose she must have told you what it is ? Anna was struck by the suddenness and vehemence of his appeal . 
It was as though some smouldering apprehension had lain close under the surface of his security . 
She's told me nothing except that she wishes to be with her friends . 
It's quite natural that she should want to go to them . 
But why didn't you tell me so ? Why did you come first to my step mother ? Anna intervened with her calm smile . 
That seems to me quite natural , too . 
Sophy was considerate enough to tell me first because of Effie . 
Very well , then that's quite natural , as you say . 
And of course she must do exactly as she pleases . 
He still kept his eyes on the girl . 
Tomorrow , he abruptly announced , I shall go up to Paris to see you . 
Oh , no no ! she protested . 
Owen turned back to Anna . 
NOW do you say that nothing's happened ? Under the influence of his agitation Anna felt a vague tightening of the heart . 
She seemed to herself like some one in a dark room about whom unseen presences are groping . 
If it's anything that Sophy wishes to tell you , no doubt she'll do so . 
I'm going down now , and I'll leave you here to talk it over by yourselves . 
As she moved to the door the girl caught up with her . 
But there's nothing to tell why should there be ? I've explained that I simply want to be quiet . 
Her look seemed to detain Mrs. Leath . 
Owen broke in Is that why I mayn't go up tomorrow ? Not tomorrow ! Then when may I ? Later . 
In how many days ? Owen ! his step mother interposed but he seemed no longer aware of her . 
If you go away today , the day that our engagement's made known , it's only fair , he persisted , that you should tell me when I am to see you . 
Sophy's eyes wavered between the two and dropped down wearily . 
It's you who are not fair when I've said I wanted to be quiet . 
But why should my coming disturb you ? I'm not asking now to come tomorrow . 
I only ask you not to leave without telling me when I'm to see you . 
Owen , I don't understand you ! his step mother exclaimed . 
Anna turned back to Sophy Viner , who stood straight and tremulous between the two . 
After all , my dear , he's not unreasonable ! I'll write I'll write , the girl repeated . 
WHAT will you write ? he pressed her vehemently . 
Owen , Anna exclaimed , you are unreasonable ! He turned from Sophy to his step mother . 
I only want her to say what she means that she's going to write to break off our engagement . 
Isn't that what you're going away for ? Anna felt the contagion of his excitement . 
She looked at Sophy , who stood motionless , her lips set , her whole face drawn to a silent fixity of resistance . 
You ought to speak , my dear you ought to answer him . 
Anna turned from him to the girl . 
Is it true that you want to break your engagement ? If you do , you ought to tell him now . 
Owen burst into a laugh . 
She doesn't dare to she's afraid I'll guess the reason ! A faint sound escaped from Sophy's lips , but she kept them close on whatever answer she had ready . 
Owen , you must explain what you mean ! He looked at her hard before answering then Ask Darrow ! he said . 
Owen Owen ! Sophy Viner murmured . 
XXIV Anna stood looking from one to the other . 
The immediate inference was that Owen had guessed the reason of Darrow's disapproval of his marriage , or that , at least , he suspected Sophy Viner of knowing and dreading it . 
This confirmation of her own obscure doubt sent a tremor of alarm through Anna . 
Sophy Viner was the first to speak . 
I should like to go now , she said in a low voice , taking a few steps toward the door . 
Her tone woke Anna to the sense of her own share in the situation . 
I quite agree with you , my dear , that it's useless to carry on this discussion . 
If that's what Owen means to imply , the idea's a complete delusion . 
She spoke the words deliberately and incisively , as if hoping that the sound of their utterance would stifle the whisper in her bosom . 
Sophy's only answer was a vague murmur , and a movement that brought her nearer to the door but before she could reach it Owen had placed himself in her way . 
I don't mean to imply what you think , he said , addressing his step mother but keeping his eyes on the girl . 
Anna's anger surged up with her fears . 
You're absurd , Owen ! I don't know why I listen to you . 
Shut up together alone ? Anna stared . 
Owen seemed like a man in delirium such an exhibition was degrading to them all . 
But he pushed on without seeing her look . 
I don't know what they say to each other , but they've taken every chance they could to say it . 
and to say it when they thought that no one saw them . 
Anna longed to silence him , but no words came to her . 
It was as though all her confused apprehensions had suddenly taken definite shape . 
There was something yes , there was something . 
Darrow's reticences and evasions had been more than a figment of her doubts . 
The next instant brought a recoil of pride . 
She turned indignantly on her step son . 
Though her tone steadied Owen , she perceived at once that it would not deflect him from his purpose . 
He spoke less vehemently , but with all the more precision . 
Anna made an effort to answer him with the same composure . 
You're to blame , at any rate , for so recklessly assuming that you HAVE found it out . 
You seem to forget that , till they met here , Sophy and Mr. Darrow hardly knew each other . 
If so , it's all the stranger that they've been so often closeted together ! Owen , Owen the girl sighed out . 
He turned his haggard face to her . 
Really , Owen , if you make it a grievance that two people who are staying in the same house should be seen talking together ! They were not talking . 
That's the point Not talking ? How do you know ? You could hardly hear them from the garden ! No but I could see . 
HE was sitting at my desk , with his face in his hands . 
SHE was standing in the window , looking away from him . 
He waited , as if for Sophy Viner's answer but still she neither stirred nor spoke . 
That was the first time , he went on and the second was the next morning in the park . 
It was natural enough , their meeting there . 
Sophy had gone out with Effie , and Effie ran back to look for me . 
She told me she'd left Sophy and Darrow in the path that leads to the river , and presently we saw them ahead of us . 
They didn't see us at first , because they were standing looking at each other and this time they were not speaking either . 
We came up close before they heard us , and all that time they never spoke , or stopped looking at each other . 
After that I began to wonder and so I watched them . 
Oh , Owen ! Oh , I only had to wait . 
Yesterday , when I motored you and the doctor back from the lodge , I saw Sophy coming out of the spring house . 
I supposed she'd taken shelter from the rain , and when you got out of the motor I strolled back down the avenue to meet her . 
But she'd disappeared she must have taken a short cut and come into the house by the side door . 
I don't know why I went on to the spring house I suppose it was what you'd call spying . 
Anna sounded a faint note of irony . 
As I looked out of the window I saw him close by , walking away . 
He must have turned the corner of the spring house just as I got to the door . 
I've absolutely nothing to say to all this but perhaps you'd like me to wait and hear your answer ? Sophy raised her head with a quick flash of colour . 
I've no answer either except that Owen must be mad . 
In the interval since she had last spoken she seemed to have regained her self control , and her voice rang clear , with a cold edge of anger . 
Anna looked at her step son . 
He had grown extremely pale , and his hand fell from the door with a discouraged gesture . 
Owen hardly seemed to feel the retort he kept his dogged stare on her face . 
I won't ask for one , then . 
I'll only ask you to give me your assurance that your talks with Darrow have had nothing to do with your suddenly deciding to leave Givre . 
She hesitated , not so much with the air of weighing her answer as of questioning his right to exact any . 
I give you my assurance and now I should like to go , she said . 
As she turned away , Anna intervened . 
My dear , I think you ought to speak . 
The girl drew herself up with a faint laugh . 
To him or to YOU ? To him . 
I've said all there is to say . 
Anna drew back , her eyes on her step son . 
He had left the threshold and was advancing toward Sophy Viner with a motion of desperate appeal but as he did so there was a knock on the door . 
A moment's silence fell on the three then Anna said Come in ! Darrow came into the room . 
Seeing the three together , he looked rapidly from one to the other then he turned to Anna with a smile . 
I came up to see if you were ready but please send me off if I'm not wanted . 
His look , his voice , the simple sense of his presence , restored Anna's shaken balance . 
By Owen's side he looked so strong , so urbane , so experienced , that the lad's passionate charges dwindled to mere boyish vapourings . 
A moment ago she had dreaded Darrow's coming now she was glad that he was there . 
She turned to him with sudden decision . 
Come in , please I want you to hear what Owen has been saying . 
She caught a murmur from Sophy Viner , but disregarded it . 
An illuminating impulse urged her on . 
She , habitually so aware of her own lack of penetration , her small skill in reading hidden motives and detecting secret signals , now felt herself mysteriously inspired . 
She addressed herself to Sophy Viner . 
Sophy , after a start of protest , remained motionless , her gaze on the ground . 
Darrow , his face grown grave , glanced slowly from Owen Leath to Anna . 
XXV Anna stood in the middle of the room , her eyes on the door . 
For a moment longer he continued to look at her enquiringly then he turned away and took up his habitual stand by the mantel piece . 
She drew a deep breath of relief . 
Won't you please explain ? he said . 
I can't explain I don't know . 
I didn't even know till she told you that she really meant to break her engagement . 
And you think it's a definite break ? She perceived , as she spoke , that his brow had cleared . 
How should I know ? Perhaps you can tell me . 
I ? She fancied his face clouded again , but he did not move from his tranquil attitude . 
As I told you , she went on , Owen has worked himself up to imagining that for some mysterious reason you've influenced Sophy against him . 
It must indeed be a mysterious reason ! He knows how slightly I know Miss Viner . 
Why should he imagine anything so wildly improbable ? I don't know that either . 
But he must have hinted at some reason . 
No he admits he doesn't know your reason . 
My influence ? What kind of influence ? He doesn't say . 
Darrow again seemed to turn over the facts she gave him . 
His face remained grave , but without the least trace of discomposure . 
And what does Miss Viner say ? She says it's perfectly natural that she should occasionally talk to my friends when she's under my roof and refuses to give him any other explanation . 
That at least is perfectly natural ! Anna felt her cheeks flush as she answered Yes but there is something Something ? Some reason for her sudden decision to break her engagement . 
I can understand Owen's feeling , sorry as I am for his way of showing it . 
The girl owes him some sort of explanation , and as long as she refuses to give it his imagination is sure to run wild . 
She would have given it , no doubt , if he d asked it in a different tone . 
I don't defend Owen's tone but she knew what it was before she accepted him . 
She knows he's excitable and undisciplined . 
Well , she's been disciplining him a little probably the best thing that could happen . 
Why not let the matter rest there ? Leave Owen with the idea that you HAVE been the cause of the break ? He met the question with his easy smile . 
Oh , as to that leave him with any idea of me he chooses ! But leave him , at any rate , free . 
Free ? she echoed in surprise . 
You've surely done all you could for him and Miss Viner . 
If they don't hit it off it's their own affair . 
What possible motive can you have for trying to interfere now ? Her gaze widened to a deeper wonder . 
You don t quite understand Owen . 
Things go deep with him , and last long . 
It took him a long time to recover from his other unlucky love affair . 
He's romantic and extravagant he can't live on the interest of his feelings . 
He worships Sophy and she seemed to be fond of him . 
If she's changed it's been very sudden . 
And if they part like this , angrily and inarticulately , it will hurt him horribly hurt his very soul . 
But that , as you say , is between the two . 
What concerns me is his associating you with their quarrel . 
Owen's like my own son if you'd seen him when I first came here you'd know why . 
We were like two prisoners who talk to each other by tapping on the wall . 
He's never forgotten it , nor I. Whether he breaks with Sophy , or whether they make it up , I can't let him think you had anything to do with it . 
She raised her eyes entreatingly to Darrow's , and read in them the forbearance of the man resigned to the discussion of non existent problems . 
I'll do whatever you want me to , he said but I don't yet know what it is . 
She felt a warning tremor as she spoke , as though some instinct deeper than reason surged up in defense of its treasure . 
But Darrow's face was unstirred save by the flit of his half amused smile . 
Well , my dear and couldn't you have told him ? I ? she faltered out through her blush . 
Of course I've talked with her alone I've talked with her as often as I could . 
I've tried my best to find out if you were right in encouraging Owen to marry her . 
She listened with a growing sense of reassurance , struggling to separate the abstract sense of his words from the persuasion in which his eyes and voice enveloped them . 
I see I do see , she murmured . 
You must see , also , that I could hardly say this to Owen without offending him still more , and perhaps increasing the breach between Miss Viner and himself . 
If she declines to speak , it's obviously on the ground that Owen's insinuations are absurd and that surely pledges me to silence . 
Yes , yes ! I see , Anna repeated . 
But I don't want you to explain anything to Owen . 
You haven't yet told me what you do want . 
She hesitated , conscious of the difficulty of justifying her request then I want you to speak to Sophy , she said . 
Darrow broke into an incredulous laugh . 
Considering what my previous attempts have resulted in ! She raised her eyes quickly . 
They haven't , at least , resulted in your liking her less , in your thinking less well of her than you've told me ? She fancied he frowned a little . 
I wonder why you go back to that ? I want to be sure I owe it to Owen . 
Won't you tell me the exact impression she's produced on you ? I have told you I like Miss Viner . 
Do you still believe she's in love with Owen ? There was nothing in our short talks to throw any particular light on that . 
You still believe , though , that there's no reason why he shouldn't marry her ? Again he betrayed a restrained impatience . 
How can I answer that without knowing her reasons for breaking with him ? That's just what I want you to find out from her . 
And why in the world should she tell me ? Because , whatever grievance she has against Owen , she can certainly have none against me . 
She can't want to have Owen connect me in his mind with this wretched quarrel and she must see that he will until he's convinced you've had no share in it . 
Darrow's elbow dropped from the mantel piece and he took a restless step or two across the room . 
Then he halted before her . 
Why can't you tell her this yourself ? Don't you see ? He eyed her intently , and she pressed on You must have guessed that Owen's jealous of you . 
Jealous of me ? The blood flew up under his brown skin . 
Our only chance now is that she should listen to you that you should make her see the harm her silence may do . 
Darrow uttered a protesting exclamation . 
It's all too preposterous what you suggest ! I can't , at any rate , appeal to her on such a ground as that ! Anna laid her hand on his arm . 
Appeal to her on the ground that I'm almost Owen's mother , and that any estrangement between you and him would kill me . 
She knows what he is she'll understand . 
You'll see her ? You'll see her ? she entreated and he answered I'll do anything in the world you want me to . 
XXVI Darrow waited alone in the sitting room . 
As his troubled pacings carried him back and forth a relentless hand seemed to be tearing away all the tender fibres of association that bound him to the peaceful room . 
For a moment he felt an actual physical anguish then his nerves hardened for the coming struggle . 
He had no notion of what awaited him but after the first instinctive recoil he had seen in a flash the urgent need of another word with Sophy Viner . 
He had been insincere in letting Anna think that he had consented to speak because she asked it . 
In reality he had been feverishly casting about for the pretext she had given him and for some reason this trivial hypocrisy weighed on him more than all his heavy burden of deceit . 
At length he heard a step behind him and Sophy Viner entered . 
When she saw him she paused on the threshold and half drew back . 
I was told that Mrs. Leath had sent for me . 
Mrs. Leath DID send for you . 
She'll be here presently but I asked her to let me see you first . 
He spoke very gently , and there was no insincerity in his gentleness . 
He was profoundly moved by the change in the girl's appearance . 
At sight of him she had forced a smile but it lit up her wretchedness like a candle flame held to a dead face . 
She made no reply , and Darrow went on You must understand my wanting to speak to you , after what I was told just now . 
She interposed , with a gesture of protest I'm not responsible for Owen's ravings ! Of course . 
He broke off and they stood facing each other . 
She lifted a hand and pushed back her loose lock with the gesture that was burnt into his memory then she looked about her and dropped into the nearest chair . 
Well , you've got what you wanted , she said . 
What do you mean by what I wanted ? My engagement's broken you heard me say so . 
You've convinced me that it's best I shouldn't marry him . 
Darrow broke into a despairing laugh . 
At the very moment when you'd convinced me to the contrary ! Had I ? Her smile flickered up . 
Well , I really believed it till you showed me . 
Warned you ? That I'd be miserable if I married a man I didn't love . 
Don't you love him ? She made no answer , and Darrow started up and walked away to the other end of the room . 
He turned back to her . 
It's rather hard on Owen , isn't it , that you should have waited until now to tell him ? She reflected a moment before answering . 
I told him as soon as I knew . 
Knew that you couldn't marry him ? Knew that I could never live here with him . 
She looked about the room , as though the very walls must speak for her . 
For a moment Darrow continued to search her face perplexedly then their eyes met in a long disastrous gaze . 
Yes she said , and stood up . 
Below the window they heard Effie whistling for her dogs , and then , from the terrace , her mother calling her . 
There THAT for instance , Sophy Viner said . 
Darrow broke out It's I who ought to go ! She kept her small pale smile . 
What good would that do any of us now ? He covered his face with his hands . 
Good God ! he groaned . 
How could I tell ? You couldn't tell . 
We neither of us could . 
She seemed to turn the problem over critically . 
After all , it might have been YOU instead of me ! He took another distracted turn about the room and coming back to her sat down in a chair at her side . 
A mocking hand seemed to dash the words from his lips . 
There was nothing on earth that he could say to her that wasn't foolish or cruel or contemptible . 
My dear , he began at last , oughtn't you , at any rate , to try ? Her gaze grew grave . 
Try to forget you ? He flushed to the forehead . 
I meant , try to give Owen more time to give him a chance . 
He's madly in love with you all the good that's in him is in your hands . 
His step mother felt that from the first . 
And she thought she believed She thought I could make him happy . 
Would she think so now ? Now . 
? I don't say now . 
But later ? Time modifies . 
more quickly than you think . 
Go away , but let him hope . 
I'm going too WE'RE going he stumbled on the plural in a very few weeks going for a long time , probably . 
What you're thinking of now may never happen . 
We may not all be here together again for years . 
She heard him out in silence , her hands clasped on her knee , her eyes bent on them . 
For me , she said , you'll always be here . 
Don't say that oh , don't ! Things change . 
You'll see ! You don't understand . 
I don't want anything to change . 
I don't want to forget to rub out . 
At first I imagined I did but that was a foolish mistake . 
As soon as I saw you again I knew it . 
It's not being here with you that I'm afraid of in the sense you think . 
It's being here , or anywhere , with Owen . 
She stood up and bent her tragic smile on him . 
I want to keep you all to myself . 
The only words that came to him were futile denunciations of his folly but the sense of their futility checked them on his lips . 
Poor child you poor child ! he heard himself vainly repeating . 
Suddenly he felt the strong reaction of reality and its impetus brought him to his feet . 
Whatever happens , I intend to go to go for good , he exclaimed . 
I want you to understand that . 
Oh , don't be afraid I'll find a reason . 
But it's perfectly clear that I must go . 
She uttered a protesting cry . 
Go away ? You ? Don't you see that that would tell everything drag everybody into the horror ? He found no answer , and her voice dropped back to its calmer note . 
What good would your going do ? Do you suppose it would change anything for me ? She looked at him with a musing wistfulness . 
I wonder what your feeling for me was ? It seems queer that I've never really known I suppose we DON'T know much about that kind of feeling . 
Is it like taking a drink when you're thirsty ? . 
I used to feel as if all of me was in the palm of your hand . 
He bowed his humbled head , but she went on almost exultantly Don't for a minute think I'm sorry ! It was worth every penny it cost . 
My mistake was in being ashamed , just at first , of its having cost such a lot . 
I tried to carry it off as a joke to talk of it to myself as an 'adventure' . 
I'd been trying to forget how you looked now I want to remember you always . 
I'd been trying not to hear your voice now I never want to hear any other . 
I've made my choice that's all I've had you and I mean to keep you . 
Her face was shining like her eyes . 
To keep you hidden away here , she ended , and put her hand upon her breast . 
After she had left him , Darrow continued to sit motionless , staring back into their past . 
Hitherto it had lingered on the edge of his mind in a vague pink blur , like one of the little rose leaf clouds that a setting sun drops from its disk . 
Now it was a huge looming darkness , through which his eyes vainly strained . 
She had said I wonder what your feeling for me was ? and he found himself wondering too . 
He remembered distinctly enough that he had not meant the perilous passion even in its most transient form to play a part in their relation . 
In that respect his attitude had been above reproach . 
That had been his first impression , and her subsequent demeanour had justified it . 
She had been , from the outset , just the frank and easy comrade he had expected to find her . 
Yet for the first few days the experiment had been perfectly successful . 
Her enjoyment had been unclouded and his pleasure in it undisturbed . 
It was very gradually he seemed to see that a shade of lassitude had crept over their intercourse . 
The kiss , at all events , had come at the precise moment to save their venture from disaster . 
She was one of the elemental creatures whose emotion is all in their pulses , and who become inexpressive or sentimental when they try to turn sensation into speech . 
His caress had restored her to her natural place in the scheme of things , and Darrow felt as if he had clasped a tree and a nymph had bloomed from it . 
The mere fact of not having to listen to her any longer added immensely to her charm . 
He recalled , too , having noticed , as he lay staring at a break in the tree tops , a stream of mares' tails coming up the sky . 
He had said to himself It will rain to morrow , and the thought had made the air seem warmer and the sun more vivid on her hair . 
Perhaps if the mares' tails had not come up the sky their adventure might have had no sequel . 
But the cloud brought rain , and next morning he looked out of his window into a cold grey blur . 
It was odd how the waiter's face came back to him . 
Reluctantly he relived the long wet walk back to the hotel , after a tedious hour at a cinematograph show on the Boulevard . 
But at that he had somewhat irritably protested he remembered that , for the first time , they were both rather irritable , and vaguely disposed to resist one another's suggestions . 
XXVII Darrow had no idea how long he had sat there when he heard Anna's hand on the door . 
The effort of rising , and of composing his face to meet her , gave him a factitious sense of self control . 
He said to himself I must decide on something and that lifted him a hair's breadth above the whirling waters . 
She came in with a lighter step , and he instantly perceived that something unforeseen and reassuring had happened . 
She came and found me on the terrace . 
We've had a long talk and she's explained everything . 
I feel as if I'd never known her before ! Her voice was so moved and tender that it checked his start of apprehension . 
She thinks now that her annoyance at feeling herself so talked over and scrutinized may have shown itself in her manner to Owen , and set him imagining the insane things he did . 
I understand all she must have felt , and I agree with her that it's best she should go away for a while . 
She's made me , Anna summed up , feel as if I'd been dreadfully thick skinned and obtuse ! YOU ? Yes . 
As if I'd treated her like the bric a brac that used to be sent down here 'on approval , to see if it would look well with the other pieces . 
he must let her calm down . 
Again she waited , and Darrow said Surely you can make him see that . 
She'll help me to she's to see him , of course , before she goes . 
Darrow mutely signed his comprehension , and she went on Owen is particularly anxious that neither Adelaide nor his grandmother should have the least inkling of what's happened . 
The need of shielding Sophy will help him to control himself . 
He's coming to his senses , poor boy he's ashamed of his wild talk already . 
He asked me to tell you so no doubt he'll tell you so himself . 
Darrow made a movement of protest . 
Oh , as to that the thing's not worth another word . 
Or another thought , either ? She brightened . 
Promise me you won't even think of it promise me you won't be hard on him ! He was finding it easier to smile back at her . 
Why should you think it necessary to ask my indulgence for Owen ? She hesitated a moment , her eyes wandering from him . 
Then they came back with a smile . 
Perhaps because I need it for myself . 
For yourself ? I mean , because I understand better how one can torture one's self over unrealities . 
As Darrow listened , the tension of his nerves began to relax . 
Her gaze , so grave and yet so sweet , was like a deep pool into which he could plunge and hide himself from the hard glare of his misery . 
And that's why I understand Owen . 
She broke off , and he felt her touch on his arm . 
BECAUSE I'D DREAMED THE HORROR TOO ! He understood her then , and stammered You ? Forgive me ! And let me tell you ! . 
It will help you to understand Owen . 
once I had begun to watch for them your reluctance to speak about her . 
a sort of constraint we'd never seen in her before . 
There was even last night on the terrace her pink cloak . 
Her pink cloak ? Now he honestly wondered , and as she saw it she blushed . 
You've forgotten about the cloak ? The pink cloak that Owen saw you with at the play in Paris ? Yes . 
I was mad enough for that ! . 
It does me good to laugh about it now ! But you ought to know that I'm going to be a jealous woman . 
you ought to be warned of it in time . 
He had dropped her hands , and she leaned close and lifted her arms to his neck with one of her rare gestures of surrender . 
But he was as conscious of what had happened to his face as if he had obeyed Anna's bidding and looked at himself in the glass . 
He knew he could no more hide from her what was written there than he could efface from his soul the fiery record of what he had just lived through . 
Anna was talking again , hurriedly , feverishly , and his soul was wrung by the anguish in her voice . 
You're leaving me only the worst things to think of her . 
she'd see that herself if she were here . 
Yes I did see her in Paris , he went on after a pause but I was bound to respect her reason for not wanting it known . 
It was she at the theatre that night ? I was with her at the theatre one night . 
Why should she have asked you not to say so ? She didn't wish it known that I'd met her . 
Why shouldn't she have wished it known ? She had quarrelled with Mrs. Murrett and come over suddenly to Paris , and she didn't want the Farlows to hear of it . 
I came across her by accident , and she asked me not to speak of having seen her . 
Because of her quarrel ? Because she was ashamed of her part in it ? Oh , no . 
There was nothing for her to be ashamed of . 
But the Farlows had found the place for her , and she didn't want them to know how suddenly she'd had to leave , and how badly Mrs. Murrett had behaved . 
She was in a terrible plight the woman had even kept back her month's salary . 
She knew the Farlows would be awfully upset , and she wanted more time to prepare them . 
Darrow heard himself speak as though the words had proceeded from other lips . 
His explanation sounded plausible enough , and he half fancied Anna's look grew lighter . 
He flushed as if she had laid a deliberate trap for him . 
They may know NOW they didn't then That's no reason for her continuing now to make a mystery of having met you . 
It's the only reason I can give you . 
Then I'll go and ask her for one myself . 
She turned and took a few steps toward the door . 
Anna ! He started to follow her , and then checked himself . 
Don't do that ! Why not ? It's not like you . 
She stood before him straight and pale , but under her rigid face he saw the tumult of her doubt and misery . 
I don't want to be ungenerous I don't want to pry into her secrets . 
But things can't be left like this . 
Wouldn't it be better for me to go to her ? Surely she'll understand she'll explain . 
It may be some mere trifle she's concealing something that would horrify the Farlows , but that I shouldn't see any harm in . 
She paused , her eyes searching his face . 
A love affair , I suppose . 
Let her go go for good , you mean ? Is that the best you can say for her ? Let things take their course . 
After all , it's between herself and Owen . 
Darrow turned away with a groan . 
Oh , let her go let her go . 
If it's THAT , of course . 
I'll never , never let a soul suspect . 
But I must know the truth , and surely it's best for her that I should find it out from you . 
Darrow waited a moment then he said slowly What you imagine's mere madness . 
She was at the theatre with me . 
Why should you both have made a mystery of that ? I've told you the idea was not mine . 
She may have been afraid that Owen But that was not a reason for her asking you to tell me that you hardly knew her that you hadn't even seen her for years . 
She broke off and the blood rose to her face and forehead . 
Darrow's gaze wandered to the window and he noticed that the gale of two days before had nearly stripped the tops of the lime trees in the court . 
Anna had moved away and was resting her elbows against the mantel piece , her head in her hands . 
He felt it to be useless to speak . 
After a while she lifted her head and said I shall not see her again before she goes . 
He made no answer , and turning to him she added That is why she's going , I suppose ? Because she loves you and won't give you up ? Darrow waited . 
The paltriness of conventional denial was so apparent to him that even if it could have delayed discovery he could no longer have resorted to it . 
Under all his other fears was the dread of dishonouring the hour . 
She HAS given me up , he said at last . 
XXVIII When he had gone out of the room Anna stood where he had left her . 
I must believe him ! I must believe him ! she said . 
A moment before , at the moment when she had lifted her arms to his neck , she had been wrapped in a sense of complete security . 
All the spirits of doubt had been exorcised , and her love was once more the clear habitation in which every thought and feeling could move in blissful freedom . 
And then , as she raised her face to Darrow's and met his eyes , she had seemed to look into the very ruins of his soul . 
That was the only way she could express it . 
She didn't now recall who had spoken first , or even , very clearly , what had been said . 
Anna , dropping back into her sofa corner , sat staring these facts in the face . 
what fresh injury might impend and Darrow , meeting her in this distracted hour , had pitied , counselled , been kind to her , with the fatal , the inevitable result . 
She kept on repeating the words like a talisman . 
It was natural , after all , that he should have behaved as he had defended the girl's piteous secret to the last . 
She too began to feel the contagion of his pity the stir , in her breast , of feelings deeper and more native to her than the pains of jealousy . 
From the security of her blessedness she longed to lean over with compassionate hands . 
The one fact on which she could stay her mind was that Sophy was leaving immediately would be out of the house within an hour . 
But that , Anna was sure , would not be necessary . 
It was clear that Sophy Viner was leaving Givre with no thought of ever seeing it again . 
Suddenly , as she tried to put some order in her thoughts , she heard Owen's call at the door Mother ! a name he seldom gave her . 
There was a new note in his voice the note of a joyous impatience . 
It's all right ! It's all right ! And it's all your doing ! I want to do the worst kind of penance bell and candle and the rest . 
I've been through it with HER , and now she hands me on to you , and you're to call me any names you please . 
He freed her with his happy laugh . 
I'm to be stood in the corner till next week , and then I'm to go up to see her . 
That's not so difficult to see ? No , I admit it doesn't take a microscope . 
But you were so wise and wonderful you always are . 
Now if ever , indeed , it behoved her to be wise and wonderful ! I'm so glad , dear so glad . 
If only you'll always feel like that about me . 
She stopped , hardly knowing what she said , and aghast at the idea that her own hands should have retied the knot she imagined to be broken . 
But she saw he had something more to say something hard to get out , but absolutely necessary to express . 
Oh , you know , he doesn't always wait for orders ! On the whole it sounded better than she'd feared . 
You mean he's called me one already ? He accepted the fact with his gayest laugh . 
You'll come down to bid them good bye ? Yes of course . 
There had , in fact , grown upon her while he spoke the urgency of seeing Sophy Viner again before she left . 
The thought was deeply distasteful Anna shrank from encountering the girl till she had cleared a way through her own perplexities . 
But it was obvious that since they had separated , barely an hour earlier , the situation had taken a new shape . 
She felt Owen's touch on her arm . 
Are you coming ? Yes . 
What's the matter ? You look so strange . 
What do you mean by strange ? I don't know startled surprised She read what her look must be by its sudden reflection in his face . 
Do I ? No wonder ! You've given us all an exciting morning . 
He held to his point . 
You're more excited now that there's no cause for it . 
She said to herself I must find out yet everything in her recoiled from the means by which she felt it must be done . 
Sophy Viner appeared almost immediately , dressed for departure , her little bag on her arm . 
She was still pale to the point of haggardness , but with a light upon her that struck Anna with surprise . 
It was only the flash of a primitive instinct , but it lasted long enough to make her ashamed of the darknesses it lit up in her heart . 
She signed to Sophy to sit down on the sofa beside her . 
What I wished ? Anna's heart shook against her side . 
I wish , of course , whatever seems best for Owen . 
It's natural , you must understand , that that consideration should come first with me . 
Sophy was looking at her steadily . 
I supposed it was the only one that counted with you . 
The curtness of retort roused Anna's latent antagonism . 
It is , she said , in a hard voice that startled her as she heard it . 
Had she ever spoken so to any one before ? She felt frightened , as though her very nature had changed without her knowing it . 
Feeling the girl's astonished gaze still on her , she continued The suddenness of the change has naturally surprised me . 
When I left you it was understood that you were to reserve your decision Yes . 
And now ? Anna waited for a reply that did not come . 
She did not understand the girl's attitude , the edge of irony in her short syllables , the plainly premeditated determination to lay the burden of proof on her interlocutor . 
Anna felt the sudden need to lift their intercourse above this mean level of defiance and distrust . 
She looked appealingly at Sophy . 
Isn't it best that we should speak quite frankly ? It's this change on your part that perplexes me . 
You can hardly be surprised at that . 
The fact that you felt it required thinking over seemed to show you wouldn't take the final step lightly wouldn't , I mean , accept of Owen more than you could give him . 
But your change of mind obliges me to ask the question I thought you would have asked yourself . 
Is there any reason why you shouldn't marry Owen ? She stopped a little breathlessly , her eyes on Sophy Viner's burning face . 
Any reason ? What do you mean by a reason ? Anna continued to look at her gravely . 
Do you love some one else ? she asked . 
Sophy's first look was one of wonder and a faint relief then she gave back the other's scrutiny in a glance of indescribable reproach . 
Ah , you might have waited ! she exclaimed . 
Waited ? Till I'd gone till I was out of the house . 
She turned her eyes again on Anna . 
I only meant to let him hope a little longer , so that he shouldn't suspect anything of course I can't marry him , she said . 
Anna stood motionless , silenced by the shock of the avowal . 
She too was trembling , less with anger than with a confused compassion . 
But the feeling was so blent with others , less generous and more obscure , that she found no words to express it , and the two women faced each other without speaking . 
I'd better go , Sophy murmured at length with lowered head . 
The words roused in Anna a latent impulse of compunction . 
The girl looked so young , so exposed and desolate ! And what thoughts must she be hiding in her heart ! It was impossible that they should part in such a spirit . 
I want you to know that no one said anything . 
You mean that Mr. Darrow didn't tell you ? Of course not do you suppose I thought he did ? You found it out , that's all I knew you would . 
In your place I should have guessed it sooner . 
The words were spoken simply , without irony or emphasis but they went through Anna like a sword . 
Yes , the girl would have had divinations , promptings that she had not had ! She felt half envious of such a sad precocity of wisdom . 
I'd like to say good bye to Effie . 
Oh it broke in a cry from Effie's mother . 
Not like this you mustn't ! I feel you make me feel too horribly as if I were driving you away . 
The words had rushed up from the depths of her bewildered pity . 
No one is driving me away I had to go , she heard the girl reply . 
There was another silence , during which passionate impulses of magnanimity warred in Anna with her doubts and dreads . 
At length , her eyes on Sophy's face Yes , you must go now , she began but later on . 
after a while , when all this is over . 
if there's no reason why you shouldn't marry Owen she paused a moment on the words I shouldn't want you to think I stood between you . 
You ? Sophy flushed again , and then grew pale . 
She seemed to try to speak , but no words came . 
Yes ! It was not true when I said just now that I was thinking only of Owen . 
I'm sorry oh , so sorry ! for you too . 
Your life I know how hard it's been and mine . 
Happy women understand best ! Anna drew near and touched the girl's hand then she began again , pouring all her soul into the broken phrases It's terrible now . 
you see no future but if , by and bye . 
and at your age things DO pass . 
If there's no reason , no real reason , why you shouldn't marry Owen , I WANT him to hope , I'll help him to hope . 
You're going , then for good like this ? Anna moved toward her and stopped . 
Sophy stopped too , with eyes that shrank from her . 
Oh Anna cried , and hid her face . 
The girl walked across the room and paused again in the doorway . 
From there she flung back I wanted it I chose it . 
He was good to me no one ever was so good ! The door handle turned , and Anna heard her go . 
XXIX Her first thought was He's going too in a few hours I needn't see him again before he leaves . 
At that moment the possibility of having to look in Darrow's face and hear him speak seemed to her more unendurable than anything else she could imagine . 
Having despatched her maid with this message , she lay down on her sofa and stared before her into darkness . 
She seemed in no way related to their shadowy victim , she who was stretched on this fiery rack of the irreparable . 
She heard her maid knock , and she hid her face and made no answer . 
The knocking continued , and the discipline of habit at length made her lift her head , compose her face and hold out her hand to the note the woman brought her . 
It was a word from Darrow May I see you ? and she said at once , in a voice that sounded thin and empty Ask Mr. Darrow to come up . 
The maid reopened the door to show in Darrow , and he paused a moment on the threshold , as if waiting for Anna to speak . 
He was extremely pale , but he looked neither ashamed nor uncertain , and she said to herself , with a perverse thrill of appreciation He's as proud as I am . 
Aloud she asked You wanted to see me ? Naturally , he replied in a grave voice . 
Nothing you can say will help . 
At the direct affirmation he turned even paler , and his eyes , which he kept resolutely fixed on her , confessed his misery . 
Oh , I don't know what more there is ! I know enough . 
I implored her to deny it , and she couldn't . 
What can you and I have to say to each other ? Her voice broke into a sob . 
The animal anguish was upon her again just a blind cry against her pain ! Darrow kept his head high and his eyes steady . 
It must be as you wish and yet it's not like you to be afraid . 
Afraid ? To talk things out to face them . 
It's for YOU to face this not me ! All I ask is to face it but with you . 
Won't you tell me what Miss Viner told you ? Oh , she's generous to the utmost ! The pain caught her like a physical throe . 
It suddenly came to her how the girl must have loved him to be so generous what memories there must be between them ! Oh , go , please go . 
Why should I have to see you ? she stammered , lifting her hands to her eyes . 
But Darrow made no sound or movement he too was waiting . 
Anna felt a thrill of resentment his presence was an outrage on her sorrow , a humiliation to her pride . 
It was strange that he should wait for her to tell him so ! You want me to leave Givre ? he asked at length . 
Owen ? Yes if we could somehow spare him She had dropped her hands and turned her startled eyes on him . 
At length she said , very low I don't want any one else to suffer as I'm suffering . 
Owen knows I meant to leave tomorrow , Darrow went on . 
Any sudden change of plan may make him think . 
But her courage failed at the idea of having to conspire with him to shield Owen , of keeping up with him , for Owen's sake , a feint of union and felicity . 
To live at Darrow's side in seeming intimacy and harmony for another twenty four hours seemed harder than to live without him for all the rest of her days . 
Her strength failed her , and she threw herself down and buried her sobs in the cushions where she had so often hidden a face aglow with happiness . 
Anna His voice was close to her . 
Let me talk to you quietly . 
It's not worthy of either of us to be afraid . 
Words of endearment would have offended her but her heart rose at the call to her courage . 
I've no defense to make , he went on . 
The facts are miserable enough but at least I want you to see them as they are . 
Above all , I want you to know the truth about Miss Viner The name sent the blood to Anna's forehead . 
She raised her head and faced him . 
I've told you I don't think uncharitably of her . 
I don't want to think of her at all ! That's why I tell you you're afraid . 
He broke off , and then began again Don't think this a plea for myself ! I don't want to say a word to lessen my offense . 
I don't want to talk of myself at all . 
Even if I did , I probably couldn't make you understand I don't , myself , as I look back . 
Be just to me it's your right all I ask you is to be generous to Miss Viner . 
You're free to be as generous to her as you please ! Yes you've made it clear to me that I'm free . 
But there's nothing I can do for her that will help her half as much as your understanding her would . 
Nothing you can do for her ? You can marry her ! His face hardened . 
You certainly couldn't wish her a worse fate ! It must have been what she expected . 
He was silent , and she broke out Or what is she ? What are you ? It's too horrible ! On your way here . 
She felt the tears in her throat and stopped . 
That was it , he said bluntly . 
I was on my way to you after repeated delays and postponements of your own making . 
At the very last you turned me back with a mere word and without explanation . 
I waited for a letter and none came . 
I'm not saying this to justify myself . 
I'm simply trying to make you understand . 
I felt hurt and bitter and bewildered . 
I thought you meant to give me up . 
And suddenly , in my way , I found some one to be sorry for , to be of use to . 
That , I swear to you , was the way it began . 
The rest was a moment's folly . 
We've never seen each other since . 
Anna was looking at him coldly . 
You sufficiently describe her in saying that ! Yes , if you measure her by conventional standards which is what you always declare you never do . 
Conventional standards ? A girl who She was checked by a sudden rush of almost physical repugnance . 
Suddenly she broke out I always thought her an adventuress ! Always ? I don't mean always . 
She had nothing to look back to but indifference or unkindness nothing to look forward to but anxiety . 
She saw I was sorry for her and it touched her . 
She made too much of it she exaggerated it . 
I ought to have seen the danger , but I didn't . 
There's no possible excuse for what I did . 
Anna listened to him in speechless misery . 
Every word he spoke threw back a disintegrating light on their own past . 
I swear to you , she heard Darrow saying , it was simply that , and nothing more . 
She wondered at his composure , his competence , at his knowing so exactly what to say . 
No doubt men often had to make such explanations they had the formulas by heart . 
A leaden lassitude descended on her . 
She passed from flame and torment into a colourless cold world where everything surrounding her seemed equally indifferent and remote . 
For a moment she simply ceased to feel . 
Finally she brought out I don't think I understand what you've told me . 
No you don't understand , he returned with sudden bitterness and on his lips the charge of incomprehension seemed an offense to her . 
I don't want to about such things ! He answered almost harshly Don't be afraid . 
and for an instant they faced each other like enemies . 
Then the tears swelled in her throat at his reproach . 
You mean I don't feel things I'm too hard ? No you're too high . 
such things are too far from you . 
It's best , on all accounts , that I should stay till tomorrow but I needn't intrude on you we needn't meet again alone . 
I only want to be sure I know your wishes . 
He spoke the short sentences in a level voice , as though he were summing up the results of a business conference . 
Anna looked at him vaguely . 
My wishes ? As to Owen At that she started . 
They must never meet again ! It's not likely they will . 
What I meant was , that it depends on you to spare him . 
She answered steadily He shall never know , and after another interval Darrow said This is good bye , then . 
At the word she seemed to understand for the first time whither the flying moments had been leading them . 
Then the vision called up another thought I shall never know what that girl has known . 
and the recoil of pride flung her back on the sharp edges of her anguish . 
Good bye , she said , in dread lest he should read her face and she stood motionless , her head high , while he walked to the door and went out . 
BOOK V XXX Anna Leath , three days later , sat in Miss Painter's drawing room in the rue de Matignon . 
Coming up precipitately that morning from the country , she had reached Paris at one o'clock and Miss Painter's landing some ten minutes later . 
In this inhospitable obscurity Anna had sat alone for close upon two hours . 
During her long meditation in a white swathed chair before the muffled hearth she had been able for the first time to clear a way through the darkness and confusion of her thoughts . 
The way did not go far , and her attempt to trace it was as weak and spasmodic as a convalescent's first efforts to pick up the thread of living . 
She seemed to herself like some one struggling to rise from a long sickness of which it would have been so much easier to die . 
It was only the discovery that very morning of Owen's unannounced departure for Paris that had caught her out of her dream and forced her back to action . 
With respect to her outward course she could at least tell herself that she had held to her purpose . 
The fact of his taking that train , of his travelling so straight and far away from her , gave to what had happened the implacable outline of reality . 
He was gone he would not come back and her life had ended just as she had dreamed it was beginning . 
She had no doubt , at first , as to the absolute inevitability of this conclusion . 
That , no doubt , was the fault of her exaggerated sensibility to outward things she was frightened to see how it enslaved her . 
There were certain dishonours with which she had never dreamed that any pact could be made she had had an incorruptible passion for good faith and fairness . 
She had supposed that , once Darrow was gone , once she was safe from the danger of seeing and hearing him , this high devotion would sustain her . 
She had believed it would be possible to separate the image of the man she had thought him from that of the man he was . 
She had even foreseen the hour when she might raise a mournful shrine to the memory of the Darrow she had loved , without fear that his double's shadow would desecrate it . 
But now she had begun to understand that the two men were really one . 
The Darrow she worshipped was inseparable from the Darrow she abhorred and the inevitable conclusion was that both must go , and she be left in the desert of a sorrow without memories . 
But if the future was thus void , the present was all too full . 
Never had blow more complex repercussions and to remember Owen was to cease to think of herself . 
To be so promptly roused , his suspicions must have been but half asleep and since then , no doubt , if she and Darrow had dissembled , so had he . 
She had come up to Paris hardly knowing what peril she feared , and still less how she could avert it . 
If Owen meant to see Miss Viner and what other object could he have ? they must already be together , and it was too late to interfere . 
But even to her alarmed imagination this seemed improbable . 
She and Darrow , to the last , had kept up so complete a feint of harmony that , whatever Owen had surmised , he could scarcely have risked acting on his suspicions . 
She had found a blessed refuge from her perplexities in the stolid Adelaide's unawareness . 
Anna , on arriving , had explained that Owen's unannounced flight had made her fear some fresh misunderstanding between himself and Miss Viner . 
Gradually , as the moments passed , Anna began to feel the reaction which , in moments of extreme nervous tension , follows on any effort of the will . 
She would not have had Sophy Viner live the hours she was living now . 
She tried again to look steadily and calmly at the picture that the image of the girl evoked . 
She had an idea that she ought to accustom herself to its contemplation . 
If life was like that , why the sooner one got used to it the better . 
But no ! Life was not like that . 
Her adventure was a hideous accident . 
There was such love as she had dreamed , and she meant to go on believing in it , and cherishing the thought that she was worthy of it . 
She could not , as yet , bear to think deliberately of Darrow but she kept on repeating to herself By and bye that will come too . 
Even now she was determined not to let his image be distorted by her suffering . 
As soon as she could , she would try to single out for remembrance the individual things she had liked in him before she had loved him altogether . 
No spiritual exercise devised by the discipline of piety could have been more torturing but its very cruelty attracted her . 
She wanted to wear herself out with new pains . 
XXXI The sound of Miss Painter's latch key made her start . 
She was still a bundle of quivering fears to whom each coming moment seemed a menace . 
There was a slight interval , and a sound of voices in the hall then Miss Painter's vigorous hand was on the door . 
Anna stood up as she came in . 
You've found him ? I've found Sophy . 
And Owen ? has she seen him ? Is he here ? SHE'S here in the hall . 
She wants to speak to you . 
Here NOW ? Anna found no voice for more . 
She drove back with me , Miss Painter continued in the tone of impartial narrative . 
She fumbled in a stout black reticule . 
Oh , I can't broke from Anna but she collected herself , remembering that to betray her unwillingness to see the girl was to risk revealing much more . 
She thought you might be too tired to see her she wouldn't come in till I'd found out . 
Anna drew a quick breath . 
An instant's thought had told her that Sophy Viner would hardly have taken such a step unless something more important had happened . 
Ask her to come , please , she said . 
The look in the girl's face showed that she had indeed come unwillingly yet she seemed animated by an eager resoluteness that made Anna ashamed of her tremors . 
Yes that was my reason for asking you to see me . 
Sophy spoke simply , without constraint or hesitation . 
I thought he'd promised you Anna interposed . 
He did but he broke his promise . 
That's what I thought I ought to tell you . 
Anna went on tentatively He left Givre this morning without a word . 
I followed him because I was afraid . 
She broke off again and the girl took up her phrase . 
You were afraid he'd guessed ? He HAS . 
What do you mean guessed what ? That you know something he doesn't . 
something that made you glad to have me go . 
If she had wanted more pain she had it now . 
He's told you this ? she faltered . 
He hasn't told me , because I haven't seen him . 
I kept him off I made Mrs. Farlow get rid of him . 
But he's written me what he came to say and that was it . 
Oh , poor Owen ! broke from Anna . 
Through all the intricacies of her suffering she felt the separate pang of his . 
To see him ? Anna tried to gather together her startled thoughts . 
What use would it be ? What could you tell him ? I want to tell him the truth , said Sophy Viner . 
The two women looked at each other , and a burning blush rose to Anna's forehead . 
I don't understand , she faltered . 
Sophy waited a moment then she lowered her voice to say I don't want him to think worse of me than he need . 
Worse ? Yes to think such things as you're thinking now . 
I want him to know exactly what happened . 
then I want to bid him good bye . 
Anna tried to clear a way through her own wonder and confusion . 
She felt herself obscurely moved . 
Wouldn't it be worse for him ? To hear the truth ? It would be better , at any rate , for you and Mr. Darrow . 
At the sound of the name Anna lifted her head quickly . 
I've only my step son to consider ! The girl threw a startled look at her . 
You don't mean you're not going to give him up ? Anna felt her lips harden . 
I don't think it's of any use to talk of that . 
Oh , I know ! It's my fault for not knowing how to say what I want you to hear . 
Your words are different you know how to choose them . 
and the dread of it makes me blunder . 
That's why , the other day , I couldn't say anything . 
couldn't make things clear to you . 
But now MUST , even if you hate it ! She drew a step nearer , her slender figure swayed forward in a passion of entreaty . 
Do listen to me ! What you've said is dreadful . 
How can you speak of him in that voice ? Don't you see that I went away so that he shouldn't have to lose you ? Anna looked at her coldly . 
Are you speaking of Mr. Darrow ? I don't know why you think your going or staying can in any way affect our relations . 
Then why won't you hear me ? Why won't you try to understand ? It's all so different from what you imagine ! I've never judged you . 
I'm not thinking of myself . 
He loves you ! I thought you'd come to speak of Owen . 
Sophy Viner seemed not to hear her . 
He's never loved any one else . 
I knew it all the while . 
he never cared for me . 
Please don't say any more ! Anna said . 
I know it must seem strange to you that I should say so much . 
I shock you , I offend you you think me a creature without shame . 
So I am but not in the sense you think ! I'm not ashamed of having loved him no and I'm not ashamed of telling you so . 
It's that that justifies me and him too . 
Oh , let me tell you how it happened ! He was sorry for me he saw I cared . 
I KNEW that was all he ever felt . 
I could see he was thinking of some one else . 
I knew it was only for a week . 
He never said a word to mislead me . 
I wanted to be happy just once and I didn't dream of the harm I might be doing him ! Anna could not speak . 
I am sorry for you . 
But why do you say this to me ? After another interval she exclaimed You'd no right to let Owen love you . 
At least what's happened since has made it so . 
If things had been different I think I could have made Owen happy . 
You were all so good to me I wanted so to stay with you ! I suppose you'll say that makes it worse my daring to dream I had the right . 
But all that doesn't matter now . 
I won't see Owen unless you're willing . 
I should have liked to tell him what I've tried to tell you but you must know better you feel things in a finer way . 
Only you'll have to help him if I can't . 
He cares a great deal . 
it's going to hurt him . 
Oh , I know ! What can I do ? You can go straight back to Givre now , at once ! So that Owen shall never know you've followed him . 
Sophy's clasped hands reached out urgently . 
And you can send for Mr. Darrow bring him back . 
Owen must be convinced that he's mistaken , and nothing else will convince him . 
Afterward I'll find a pretext oh , I promise you ! But first he must see for himself that nothing's changed for you . 
Anna stood motionless , subdued and dominated . 
The girl's ardour swept her like a wind . 
Oh , can't I move you ? Some day you'll know ! Sophy pleaded , her eyes full of tears . 
Anna saw them , and felt a fullness in her throat . 
Again the band about her heart seemed loosened . 
She wanted to find a word , but could not all within her was too dark and violent . 
She gave the girl a speechless look . 
I do believe you , she said suddenly then she turned and walked out of the room . 
XXXII She drove from Miss Painter's to her own apartment . 
The maid servant who had it in charge had been apprised of her coming , and had opened one or two of the rooms , and prepared a fire in her bedroom . 
Anna shut herself in , refusing the woman's ministrations . 
She felt cold and faint , and after she had taken off her hat and cloak she knelt down by the fire and stretched her hands to it . 
In one respect , at least , it was clear to her that she would do well to follow Sophy Viner's counsel . 
It had been an act of folly to follow Owen , and her first business was to get back to Givre before him . 
She had come up to Paris on the pretext of finding a new governess for Effie , and the natural thing was to defer her return till the next morning . 
Her sense of relief at not having to start out at once showed her for the first time how tired she was . 
She was too tired to get up , but stretching out her arm she drew toward her the arm chair which stood beside the hearth and rested her head against its cushions . 
Gradually the warmth of the fire stole into her veins and her heaviness of soul was replaced by a dreamy buoyancy . 
She seemed to be seated on the hearth in her sitting room at Givre , and Darrow was beside her , in the chair against which she leaned . 
He put his arms about her shoulders and drawing her head back looked into her eyes . 
Of all the ways you do your hair , that's the way I like best , he said . 
A log dropped , and she sat up with a start . 
There was a warmth in her heart , and she was smiling . 
Then she looked about her , and saw where she was , and the glory fell . 
She hid her face and sobbed . 
Presently she perceived that it was growing dark , and getting up stiffly she began to undo the things in her bag and spread them on the dressing table . 
She shrank from lighting the lights , and groped her way about , trying to find what she needed . 
She seemed immeasurably far off from every one , and most of all from herself . 
It was as if her consciousness had been transmitted to some stranger whose thoughts and gestures were indifferent to her . 
Suddenly she heard a shrill tinkle , and with a beating heart she stood still in the middle of the room . 
It was the telephone in her dressing room a call , no doubt , from Adelaide Painter . 
Or could Owen have learned she was in town ? The thought alarmed her and she opened the door and stumbled across the unlit room to the instrument . 
She held it to her ear , and heard Darrow's voice pronounce her name . 
Will you let me see you ? I've come back I had to come . 
Miss Painter told me you were here . 
She began to tremble , and feared that he would guess it from her voice . 
She did not know what she answered she heard him say I can't hear . 
She called Yes ! and laid the telephone down , and caught it up again but he was gone . 
She wondered if her Yes had reached him . 
She sat in her chair and listened . 
Then she woke to reality and shivered . 
A long time elapsed , and at length she said to herself He isn't coming . 
The door bell rang as she said it , and she stood up , cold and trembling . 
She thought Can he imagine there's any use in coming ? and moved forward to bid the servant say she could not see him . 
The door opened and she saw him standing in the drawing room . 
The room was cold and fireless , and a hard glare fell from the wall lights on the shrouded furniture and the white slips covering the curtains . 
He looked pale and stern , with a frown of fatigue between his eyes and she remembered that in three days he had travelled from Givre to London and back . 
It seemed incredible that all that had befallen her should have been compressed within the space of three days ! Thank you , he said as she came in . 
She answered It's better , I suppose He came toward her and took her in his arms . 
It seemed to come from her own breast , so close he held her and it was she who , at last , lifted up her face and drew down his . 
She freed herself and went and sat on a sofa at the other end of the room . 
He answered that he had managed he'd arranged it and she saw he hardly heard what she was saying . 
I had to see you , he went on , and moved nearer , sitting down at her side . 
The suggestion was absurd , of course . 
She could not ask Darrow to lend himself to such a fraud , even had she had the inhuman courage to play her part in it . 
She was suddenly overwhelmed by the futility of every attempt to reconstruct her ruined world . 
No , it was useless and since it was useless , every moment with Darrow was pure pain . 
I've come to talk of myself , not of Owen , she heard him saying . 
When you sent me away the other day I understood that it couldn't be otherwise then . 
But it's not possible that you and I should part like that . 
If I'm to lose you , it must be for a better reason . 
A better reason ? Yes a deeper one . 
One that means a fundamental disaccord between us . 
This one doesn't in spite of everything it doesn't . 
That's what I want you to see , and have the courage to acknowledge . 
If I saw it I should have the courage ! Yes courage was the wrong word . 
But I don't see it , she continued sadly . 
So it's useless , isn't it ? and so cruel . 
He was about to speak , but she went on I shall never understand it never ! He looked at her . 
You will some day you were made to feel everything I should have thought this was a case of not feeling On my part , you mean ? He faced her resolutely . 
Yes , it was to my shame . 
Life's just a perpetual piecing together of broken bits . 
That's what I feel that you ought to He stood up , interrupting her with a gesture . 
Oh , don't don't say what you're going to ! Men don't give their lives away like that . 
If you won't have mine , it's at least my own , to do the best I can with . 
The best you can that's what I mean ! How can there be a 'best' for you that's made of some one else's worst ? He sat down again with a groan . 
I don't know ! It seemed such a slight thing all on the surface and I've gone aground on it because it was on the surface . 
I see the horror of it just as you do . 
But I see , a little more clearly , the extent , and the limits , of my wrong . 
It's not as black as you imagine . 
She lowered her voice to say I suppose I shall never understand but she seems to love you . 
There's my shame ! That I didn't guess it , didn't fly from it . 
She was dizzy with struggling impulses . 
She recalled having read somewhere that in ancient Rome the slaves were not allowed to wear a distinctive dress lest they should recognize each other and learn their numbers and their power . 
Oh , I don't know what to think ! she broke out . 
You say you didn't know she loved you . 
But you know it now . 
The sense of her weakness made her try to harden herself against his arguments . 
You do know ! We've often talked of such things of the monstrousness of useless sacrifices . 
If I'm to expiate , it's not in that way . 
He added abruptly It's in having to say this to you now . 
Through the silent apartment they heard the sudden peal of the door bell , and she rose to her feet . 
Owen ! she instantly exclaimed . 
Is Owen in Paris ? She explained in a rapid undertone what she had learned from Sophy Viner . 
Shall I leave you ? Darrow asked . 
She moved to the dining room door , with the half formed purpose of making him pass out , and then turned back . 
They heard the outer door open , and a moment later Owen walked into the room . 
He was pale , with excited eyes as they fell on Darrow , Anna saw his start of wonder . 
He made a slight sign of recognition , and then went up to his step mother with an air of exaggerated gaiety . 
I came up to meet Mr. Darrow , Anna answered . 
His leave's been prolonged he's going back with me . 
The words seemed to have uttered themselves without her will , yet she felt a great sense of freedom as she spoke them . 
The hard tension of Owen's face changed to incredulous surprise . 
a colleague whose wife was ill . 
I came straight back , she heard the latter tranquilly explaining . 
His self command helped to steady her , and she smiled at Owen . 
We'll all go back together tomorrow morning , she said as she slipped her arm through his . 
XXXIII Owen Leath did not go back with his step mother to Givre . 
In reply to her suggestion he announced his intention of staying on a day or two longer in Paris . 
Anna left alone by the first train the next morning . 
Darrow was to follow in the afternoon . 
No no ! He came nearer , and looked at her , and she went to him . 
All her fears seemed to fall from her as he held her . 
It was a different feeling from any she had known before confused and turbid , as if secret shames and rancours stirred in it , yet richer , deeper , more enslaving . 
She leaned her head back and shut her eyes beneath his kisses . 
She knew now that she could never give him up . 
Nevertheless she asked him , the next morning , to let her go back alone to Givre . 
She wanted time to think . 
If there was a shade of difference in her feeling for him it was that of an added intensity . 
She felt restless , insecure out of his sight she had a sense of incompleteness , of passionate dependence , that was somehow at variance with her own conception of her character . 
It was partly the consciousness of this change in herself that made her want to be alone . 
The solitude of her inner life had given her the habit of these hours of self examination , and she needed them as she needed her morning plunge into cold water . 
During the journey she tried to review what had happened in the light of her new decision and of her sudden relief from pain . 
She seemed to herself to have passed through some fiery initiation from which she had emerged seared and quivering , but clutching to her breast a magic talisman . 
Sophy Viner had cried out to her Some day you'll know ! and Darrow had used the same words . 
They meant , she supposed , that when she had explored the intricacies and darknesses of her own heart her judgment of others would be less absolute . 
Well , she knew now knew weaknesses and strengths she had not dreamed of , and the deep discord and still deeper complicities between what thought in her and what blindly wanted . 
Her mind turned anxiously to Owen . 
At least the blow that was to fall on him would not seem to have been inflicted by her hand . 
Anna never for a moment permitted herself the delusion that she had renewed her promise to Darrow in order to spare her step son this last refinement of misery . 
It was as though a star she had been used to follow had shed its familiar ray on ways unknown to her . 
All through these meditations ran the undercurrent of an absolute trust in Sophy Viner . 
She thought of the girl with a mingling of antipathy and confidence . 
It was humiliating to her pride to recognize kindred impulses in a character which she would have liked to feel completely alien to her . 
But what indeed was the girl really like ? She seemed to have no scruples and a thousand delicacies . 
Anna tried to picture what the girl's life must have been what experiences , what initiations , had formed her . 
But her own training had been too different there were veils she could not lift . 
She looked back at her married life , and its colourless uniformity took on an air of high restraint and order . 
If she had been asked what she supposed he thought about when they were apart , she would instantly have answered his snuff boxes . 
It had never occurred to her that he might have passions , interests , preoccupations of which she was absolutely ignorant . 
Yet he went up to Paris rather regularly ostensibly to attend sales and exhibitions , or to confer with dealers and collectors . 
She tried to picture him , straight , trim , beautifully brushed and varnished , walking furtively down a quiet street , and looking about him before he slipped into a doorway . 
In the act of transposing Fraser Leath into a Don Juan she was pulled up by the ironic perception that she was simply trying to justify Darrow . 
And suddenly she was filled with anger at her blindness , and then at her disastrous attempt to see . 
Why had she forced the truth out of Darrow ? If only she had held her tongue nothing need ever have been known . 
Sophy Viner would have broken her engagement , Owen would have been sent around the world , and her own dream would have been unshattered . 
But she had probed , insisted , cross examined , not rested till she had dragged the secret to the light . 
She was one of the luckless women who always have the wrong audacities , and who always know it . 
If at that moment she could have kept Darrow from following her to Givre she would have done so . 
But he came and with the sight of him the turmoil fell and she felt herself reassured , rehabilitated . 
He arrived toward dusk , and she motored to Francheuil to meet him . 
She was grateful to him for not saying anything , and for not expecting her to speak . 
The idea that his tact was a kind of professional expertness filled her with repugnance , and insensibly she drew away from him . 
He made no motion to bring her nearer , and she instantly thought that that was calculated too . 
She sat beside him in frozen misery , wondering whether , henceforth , she would measure in this way his every look and gesture . 
Neither of them spoke again till the motor turned under the dark arch of the avenue , and they saw the lights of Givre twinkling at its end . 
Then Darrow laid his hand on hers and said I know , dear and the hardness in her melted . 
He's suffering as I am , she thought and for a moment the baleful fact between them seemed to draw them closer instead of walling them up in their separate wretchedness . 
It did not seem possible that these quiet rooms , so full of the slowly distilled accumulations of a fastidious taste , should have been the scene of tragic dissensions . 
The memory of them seemed to be shut out into the night with the closing and barring of its doors . 
At the tea table in the oak room they found Madame de Chantelle and Effie . 
The little girl , catching sight of Darrow , raced down the drawing rooms to meet him , and returned in triumph on his shoulder . 
Anna looked at them with a smile . 
Over the tea table Darrow gave Madame de Chantelle the explanation of his sudden return from England . 
On reaching London , he told her , he had found that the secretary he was to have replaced was detained there by the illness of his wife . 
And suddenly , as Anna listened to his explanation , she asked herself if it were true . 
The question , of course , was absurd . 
There was no possible reason why he should invent a false account of his return , and every probability that the version he gave was the real one . 
She was sure he loved her , and she did not fear his insincerity as much as her own distrust of him . 
But the doubts were there now , one moment lulled to quiescence , the next more torturingly alert . 
Her own feeling was so clear that but for that scruple she would have put her hand in his at once . 
She had not spoken of this to Darrow because it appeared to her a subject to be debated within her own conscience . 
She had decided this question as it was inevitable that she should but now another was before her . 
XXXIV When she woke the next morning she felt a great lightness of heart . 
She recalled her last awakening at Givre , three days before , when it had seemed as though all her life had gone down in darkness . 
Now Darrow was once more under the same roof with her , and once more his nearness sufficed to make the looming horror drop away . 
Darrow had said You were made to feel everything and to feel was surely better than to judge . 
But there it was , inevitably , and whenever they looked at each other they saw it . 
Did such self possession imply indifference or insincerity ? In that problem her mind perpetually revolved and she dreaded the one answer as much as the other . 
As soon as this desire had germinated it became so strong in her that she regretted having promised Effie to take her out for the afternoon . 
During their excursion Anna found it impossible to guess from his demeanour if Effie's presence between them was as much of a strain to his composure as to hers . 
On the way back , two or three miles from Givre , she suddenly proposed that they should walk home through the forest which skirted that side of the park . 
Darrow acquiesced , and they got out and sent Effie on in the motor . 
Their way led through a bit of sober French woodland , flat as a faded tapestry , but with gleams of live emerald lingering here and there among its browns and ochres . 
The luminous grey air gave vividness to its dying colours , and veiled the distant glimpses of the landscape in soft uncertainty . 
No , decidedly she could not speak she no longer even knew what she had meant to say . 
The same experience repeated itself several times that day and the next . 
When she and Darrow were apart she exhausted herself in appeal and interrogation , she formulated with a fervent lucidity every point in her imaginary argument . 
Yet this inertia was torn by wild flashes of resistance , and when they were apart she began to prepare again what she meant to say to him . 
She knew he could not be with her without being aware of this inner turmoil , and she hoped he would break the spell by some releasing word . 
But she presently understood that he recognized the futility of words , and was resolutely bent on holding her to her own purpose of behaving as if nothing had happened . 
Once more she inwardly accused him of insensibility , and her imagination was beset by tormenting visions of his past . 
but if it were a mere link in a chain of similar experiments , the thought of it dishonoured her whole past . 
Anna sat silent , listening to her small stiff steps as they minced down the hall and died out in the distance . 
Madame de Chantelle had broken her wooden embroidery frame , and Darrow , having offered to repair it , had drawn his chair up to a table that held a lamp . 
Anna watched him as he sat with bent head and knitted brows , trying to fit together the disjoined pieces . 
The lamplight fell on his white forehead , on the healthy brown of his cheek , the backs of his thin sunburnt hands . 
As she watched the hands her sense of them became as vivid as a touch , and she said to herself That other woman has sat and watched him as I am doing . 
She has known him as I have never known him . 
Perhaps he is thinking of that now . 
Or perhaps he has forgotten it all as completely as I have forgotten everything that happened to me before he came . 
He looked young , active , stored with strength and energy not the man for vain repinings or long memories . 
She wondered what she had to hold or satisfy him . 
He loved her now she had no doubt of that but how could she hope to keep him ? They were so nearly of an age that already she felt herself his senior . 
As yet the difference was not visible outwardly at least they were matched but ill health or unhappiness would soon do away with this equality . 
She thought with a pang of bitterness He won't grow any older because he doesn't feel things and because he doesn't , I SHALL . 
What she wanted to know was not what he thought about it in advance , but what would impel or restrain him at the crucial hour . 
She could hardly conceive of wanting the kind of love that was a state one could be cozened into . 
Darrow , putting away the frame , walked across the room and sat down beside her and she felt he had something special to say . 
They're sure to send for me in a day or two now , he began . 
The other day in Paris I saw Miss Viner . 
She saw him flush with the intensity of his surprise . 
You sent for her ? No she heard from Adelaide that I was in Paris and she came . 
She came because she wanted to urge me to marry you . 
I thought you ought to know what she had done . 
I'm glad you've told me . 
He spoke with a visible effort at composure . 
Her eyes followed him as he moved away . 
Is that all ? he asked after an interval . 
It seems to me a great deal . 
It's what she'd already asked me . 
His voice showed her how deeply he was moved , and a throb of jealousy shot through her . 
Oh , it was for your sake , I know ! He made no answer , and she added She's been exceedingly generous . 
Why shouldn't we speak of it ? She had lowered her head , but through her dropped lids she seemed to be watching the crowded scene of his face . 
I've not shrunk from speaking of it . 
Speaking of her , then , I mean . 
The girl had been magnificent , and the only worthy return that Anna could make was to take Darrow from her without a question if she took him at all . 
She lifted her eyes to his face . 
I think I only wanted to speak her name . 
It's not right that we should seem so afraid of it . 
If I were really afraid of it I should have to give you up , she said . 
He bent over her and caught her to him . 
Ah , you can't give me up now ! he exclaimed . 
The knowledge came to her in the watches of a sleepless night , when , through the tears of disenchanted passion , she stared back upon her past . 
There it lay before her , her sole romance , in all its paltry poverty , the cheapest of cheap adventures , the most pitiful of sentimental blunders . 
In that moment of self searching she saw that Sophy Viner had chosen the better part , and that certain renunciations might enrich where possession would have left a desert . 
Passionate reactions of instinct fought against these efforts of her will . 
But the mere fact that she could think such things of him sent her shuddering back to the opposite pole . 
They were at luncheon when the summons that Darrow expected was brought to him . 
The idea that the decisive moment was at hand was so agitating to her that when luncheon was over she slipped away to the terrace and thence went down alone to the garden . 
The day was grey but mild , with the heaviness of decay in the air . 
She rambled on aimlessly , following under the denuded boughs the path she and Darrow had taken on their first walk to the river . 
She was sure he would not try to overtake her sure he would guess why she wished to be alone . 
There were moments when it seemed to double her loneliness to be so certain of his reading her heart while she was so desperately ignorant of his . 
He heard her step , and looking up turned in his chair without rising . 
Their eyes met , and she saw that his were clear and smiling . 
He had a heap of papers at his elbow and was evidently engaged in some official correspondence . 
She wondered that he could address himself so composedly to his task , and then ironically reflected that such detachment was a sign of his superiority . 
The evocation was so vivid that it caught her breath like a blow , and she sank down helplessly on the divan among the piled up books . 
Distinctly , at the moment , she understood that the end had come . 
When he speaks to me I will tell him ! she thought . 
Darrow , laying aside his pen , looked at her for a moment in silence then he stood up and shut the door . 
I must go to morrow early , he said , sitting down beside her . 
His voice was grave , with a slight tinge of sadness . 
She said to herself He knows what I am feeling . 
and now the thought made her feel less alone . 
The expression of his face was stern and yet tender for the first time she understood what he had suffered . 
She had no doubt as to the necessity of giving him up , but it was impossible to tell him so then . 
She stood up and said I'll leave you to your letters . 
Perhaps , she thought , it will be easier to tell him there . 
In the glow of interchanged love she had grown less conscious of that other glow of interchanged thought which had once illumined her mind . 
She had forgotten how Darrow had widened her world and lengthened out all her perspectives , and with a pang of double destitution she saw herself alone among her shrunken thoughts . 
For the first time , then , she had a clear vision of what her life would be without him . 
She imagined herself trying to take up the daily round , and all that had lightened and animated it seemed equally lifeless and vain . 
She had had nothing , and all her starved youth still claimed its due . 
When she went up to dress for dinner she said to herself I'll have my last evening with him , and then , before we say good night , I'll tell him . 
This postponement did not seem unjustified . 
Darrow had shown her how he dreaded vain words , how resolved he was to avoid all fruitless discussion . 
She was therefore merely following the line he had traced in behaving , till the final moment came , as though there were nothing more to say . 
That moment seemed at last to be at hand when , at her usual hour after dinner , Madame de Chantelle rose to go upstairs . 
Anna felt that he was looking at her , and sat still , disdaining to seek refuge in any evasive word or movement . 
For the last time she wanted to let him take from her the fulness of what the sight of her could give . 
He crossed over and sat down on the sofa . 
For a moment neither of them spoke then he said To night , dearest , I must have my answer . 
She straightened herself under the shock of his seeming to take the very words from her lips . 
To night ? was all that she could falter . 
I must be off by the early train . 
There won't be more than a moment in the morning . 
He had taken her hand , and she said to herself that she must free it before she could go on with what she had to say . 
Then she rejected this concession to a weakness she was resolved to defy . 
You'll tell me to night , dear , he insisted gently and his insistence gave her the strength to speak . 
There's something I must ask you , she broke out , perceiving , as she heard her words , that they were not in the least what she had meant to say . 
He sat still , waiting , and she pressed on Do such things happen to men often ? The quiet room seemed to resound with the long reverberations of her question . 
She looked away from him , and he released her and stood up . 
I don't know what happens to other men . 
Such a thing never happened to me . 
She turned her eyes back to his face . 
She felt like a traveller on a giddy path between a cliff and a precipice there was nothing for it now but to go on . 
before you met her in Paris ? No a thousand times no ! I've told you the facts as they were . 
All the facts ? He turned abruptly . 
What do you mean ? Her throat was dry and the loud pulses drummed in her temples . 
The room had grown profoundly still . 
A log dropped to the hearth and broke there in a hissing shower . 
Darrow spoke in a clear voice . 
I knew nothing , absolutely nothing , he said . 
She had the answer to her inmost doubt to her last shameful unavowed hope . 
She sat powerless under her woe . 
He walked to the fireplace and pushed back the broken log with his foot . 
A flame shot out of it , and in the upward glare she saw his pale face , stern with misery . 
Is that all ? he asked . 
She made a slight sign with her head and he came slowly back to her . 
Then is this to be good bye ? Again she signed a faint assent , and he made no effort to touch her or draw nearer . 
He did not follow her , and she stood with her back to him , staring at a bowl of carnations on a little table strewn with books . 
Her tears magnified everything she looked at , and the streaked petals of the carnations , their fringed edges and frail curled stamens , pressed upon her , huge and vivid . 
She noticed among the books a volume of verse he had sent her from England , and tried to remember whether it was before or after . 
She felt that he was waiting for her to speak , and at last she turned to him . 
I shall see you to morrow before you go . 
She moved toward the door and he held it open for her . 
She saw his hand on the door , and his seal ring in its setting of twisted silver and the sense of the end of all things came to her . 
They walked down the drawing rooms , between the shadowy reflections of screens and cabinets , and mounted the stairs side by side . 
At the end of the gallery , a lamp brought out turbid gleams in the smoky battle piece above it . 
On the landing Darrow stopped his room was the nearest to the stairs . 
Good night , he said , holding out his hand . 
As Anna gave him hers the springs of grief broke loose in her . 
She struggled with her sobs , and subdued them but her breath came unevenly , and to hide her agitation she leaned on him and pressed her face against his arm . 
Don't don't , he whispered , soothing her . 
Her troubled breathing sounded loudly in the silence of the sleeping house . 
The door shut behind her and she sat down on the lounge at the foot of the bed . 
The pulsations in her throat had ceased , but she knew they would begin again if she tried to speak . 
Darrow walked away and leaned against the mantelpiece . 
The red veiled lamp shone on his books and papers , on the arm chair by the fire , and the scattered objects on his dressing table . 
A log glimmered on the hearth , and the room was warm and faintly smoke scented . 
It was the first time she had ever been in a room he lived in , among his personal possessions and the traces of his daily usage . 
Every object about her seemed to contain a particle of himself the whole air breathed of him , steeping her in the sense of his intimate presence . 
Suddenly she thought This is what Sophy Viner knew . 
and with a torturing precision she pictured them alone in such a scene . 
Had he taken the girl to an hotel . 
where did people go in such cases ? Wherever they were , the silence of night had been around them , and the things he used had been strewn about the room . 
Anna , ashamed of dwelling on the detested vision , stood up with a confused impulse of flight then a wave of contrary feeling arrested her and she paused with lowered head . 
Darrow had come forward as she rose , and she perceived that he was waiting for her to bid him good night . 
It was clear that no other possibility had even brushed his mind and the fact , for some dim reason , humiliated her . 
why not ? something whispered in her , as though his forbearance , his tacit recognition of her pride , were a slight on other qualities she wanted him to feel in her . 
In the morning , then ? she heard him say . 
Yes , in the morning , she repeated . 
She continued to stand in the same place , looking vaguely about the room . 
Exasperated by her helplessness , she thought Don't I feel things as other women do ? Her eye fell on a note case she had given him . 
It was worn at the corners with the friction of his pocket and distended with thickly packed papers . 
She wondered if he carried her letters in it , and she put her hand out and touched it . 
All that he and she had ever felt or seen , their close encounters of word and look , and the closer contact of their silences , trembled through her at the touch . 
She remembered things he had said that had been like new skies above her head ways he had that seemed a part of the air she breathed . 
It's because I love him in too many ways , she thought and slowly she turned to the door . 
She was aware that Darrow was still silently watching her , but he neither stirred nor spoke till she had reached the threshold . 
Then he met her there and caught her in his arms . 
XXXVII Anna and Darrow , the next day , sat alone in a compartment of the Paris train . 
Anna , when they entered it , had put herself in the farthest corner and placed her bag on the adjoining seat . 
She had decided suddenly to accompany Darrow to Paris , had even persuaded him to wait for a later train in order that they might travel together . 
She was his now , his for life there could never again be any question of sacrificing herself to Effie's welfare , or to any other abstract conception of duty . 
Effie of course would not suffer Anna would pay for her bliss as a wife by redoubled devotion as a mother . 
Her scruples were not overcome but for the time their voices were drowned in the tumultuous rumour of her happiness . 
Then the blood rose to her face and she felt again the desire to shield herself . 
She turned back to her letters and her glance lit on an envelope inscribed in Owen's hand . 
Her heart began to beat oppressively she was in a mood when the simplest things seemed ominous . 
He hasn't seen her , then ! was Anna's instant thought and her feeling was a strange compound of humiliation and relief . 
The girl had kept her word , lived up to the line of conduct she had set herself and Anna had failed in the same attempt . 
She did not reproach herself with her failure but she would have been happier if there had been less discrepancy between her words to Sophy Viner and the act which had followed them . 
It irritated her obscurely that the girl should have been so much surer of her power to carry out her purpose . 
Anna looked up and saw that Darrow's eyes were on the newspaper . 
He seemed calm and secure , almost indifferent to her presence . 
Will it become a matter of course to him so soon ? she wondered with a twinge of jealousy . 
She sat motionless , her eyes fixed on him , trying to make him feel the attraction of her gaze as she felt his . 
It surprised and shamed her to detect a new element in her love for him a sort of suspicious tyrannical tenderness that seemed to deprive it of all serenity . 
To give herself a countenance she held out Owen's letter . 
He took it and glanced down the page , his face grown grave . 
She waited nervously till he looked up . 
That's a good plan the best thing that could happen , he said , a just perceptible shade of constraint in his tone . 
Oh , yes , she hastily assented . 
She was aware of a faint current of relief silently circulating between them . 
I shall see him this evening , she said , wishing Darrow to feel that she was not afraid of meeting her step son . 
Yes , of course perhaps he might dine with you . 
The words struck her as strangely obtuse . 
But how could he speak in that careless tone of her dining with Owen ? She lowered her voice to say I'm afraid he's desperately unhappy . 
He answered , with a tinge of impatience It's much the best thing that he should travel . 
Yes but don't you feel . 
She thought to herself He will see the change , and grow indifferent to me as he did to HER . 
and for a moment it seemed to her that she was reliving the experience of Sophy Viner . 
Darrow made no attempt to learn the end of her unfinished sentence . 
The train was just entering a station , and a moment later their compartment was invaded by a commonplace couple preoccupied with the bestowal of bulging packages . 
Anna , at their approach , felt the possessive pride of the woman in love when strangers are between herself and the man she loves . 
He went back to his seat , and they looked at each other like lovers smiling at a happy secret . 
She was impatient to have the meeting over , and glad that Darrow was obliged to leave her at the station in order to look up a colleague at the Embassy . 
She blushed like a girl , thinking , half vexed , half happy Yesterday he would not have done it . 
and a dozen scarcely definable differences in his look and manner seemed all at once to be summed up in the boyish act . 
After all , I'm engaged to him , she reflected , and then smiled at the absurdity of the word . 
The next instant , with a pang of self reproach , she remembered Sophy Viner's cry I knew all the while he didn't care . 
Poor thing , oh poor thing ! Anna murmured . 
At Owen's hotel she waited in a tremor while the porter went in search of him . 
Dearest so you're really off ? she said , hesitating a moment on the threshold . 
He pushed a chair forward , and they sat down , each waiting for the other to speak . 
Finally she put some random question about his travelling companion , a slow shy meditative youth whom he had once or twice brought down to Givre . 
She reflected that it was natural he should have given this uncommunicative comrade the preference over his livelier acquaintances , and aloud she said I'm so glad Fred Rempson can go with you . 
Owen answered in the same tone , and for a few minutes their talk dragged itself on over a dry waste of common places . 
Anna noticed that , though ready enough to impart his own plans , Owen studiously abstained from putting any questions about hers . 
This gave her the opportunity to say that she expected to go back within a day or two and would attend to the matter as soon as she returned . 
But he made no comment , and she continued to hear the name sounding on unfamiliarly between them . 
The room was almost dark , and she finally stood up and glanced about for the light switch , saying I can't see you , dear . 
Oh , don't I hate the light ! Owen exclaimed , catching her by the wrist and pushing her back into her seat . 
He gave a nervous laugh and added I'm half blind with neuralgia . 
I suppose it's this beastly rain . 
Yes it will do you good to get down to Spain . 
His face was now no more than a white blur in the dusk , but she felt its indistinctness as a veil drawn over aching intensities of expression . 
she said to herself , and wondered whether the truth had been revealed to him by some corroborative fact or by the sheer force of divination . 
He had risen also , and was clearly waiting for her to go , and she turned to the door , saying I'll be back in a moment . 
Oh , don't come up again , please ! He paused , embarrassed . 
I mean I may not be here . 
I've got to go and pick up Rempson , and see about some final things with him . 
She stopped on the threshold with a sinking heart . 
Owen ! she cried , and turned back . 
He stood mutely before her in the dimness . 
You haven't told me how long you're to be gone . 
How long ? Oh , you see . 
I hate definite dates , you know . 
He paused and she saw he did not mean to help her out . 
She tried to say You'll be here for my wedding ? but could not bring the words to her lips . 
Instead she murmured In six weeks I shall be going too . 
and he rejoined , as if he had expected the announcement and prepared his answer Oh , by that time , very likely . 
At any rate , I won't say good bye , she stammered , feeling the tears beneath her veil . 
No , no rather not ! he declared but he made no movement , and she went up and threw her arms about him . 
XXXVIII Anna drove to the chemist's for Owen's remedy . 
On the way she stopped her cab at a book shop , and emerged from it laden with literature . 
She knew what would interest Owen , and what he was likely to have read , and she had made her choice among the newest publications with the promptness of a discriminating reader . 
But on the way back to the hotel she was overcome by the irony of adding this mental panacea to the other . 
There was something grotesque and almost mocking in the idea of offering a judicious selection of literature to a man setting out on such a journey . 
she kept on repeating and giving the porter the parcel from the chemist's she drove away without leaving the books . 
She went to her apartment , whither her maid had preceded her . 
There was a fire in the drawing room and the tea table stood ready by the hearth . 
The stormy rain beat against the uncurtained windows , and she thought of Owen , who would soon be driving through it to the station , alone with his bitter thoughts . 
Between them , henceforth , there would always be the wall of an insurmountable silence . 
She strained her aching thoughts to guess how the truth had come to him . 
Had he seen the girl , and had she told him ? Instinctively , Anna rejected this conjecture . 
She looked back with melancholy derision on her old conception of life , as a kind of well lit and well policed suburb to dark places one need never know about . 
She started up , saying to herself I must tell him that Owen knows . 
but when the door opened and she saw his face , still lit by the same smile of boyish triumph , she felt anew the uselessness of speaking . 
He was already dressed for the evening , and as he came toward her he said The Ambassador's booked for an official dinner and I'm free after all . 
Already her pulses were dancing to the tune of Darrow's , and as they smiled at each other she thought Nothing can ever change the fact that I belong to him . 
Where shall we dine ? he repeated gaily , and she named a well known restaurant for which she had once heard him express a preference . 
He looked so light hearted and handsome , so ingenuously proud of her , so openly happy at being with her , that no other fact could seem real in his presence . 
He had learned that the Ambassador was to spend two days in Paris , and he had reason to hope that in consequence his own departure for London would be deferred . 
His mention of the hour recalled Owen to her thoughts . 
It was on Anna's lips to acquiesce but as she was about to speak she wondered if it were not at the Athenee that Owen had seen Darrow with Sophy Viner . 
She was not sure he had even mentioned the theatre , but the mere possibility was enough to darken her sky . 
It was hateful to her to think of accompanying Darrow to places where the girl had been with him . 
She replied that she was too tired for the play , and they drove back to her apartment . 
At the foot of the stairs she half turned to wish him good night , but he appeared not to notice her gesture and followed her up to her door . 
This is ever so much better than the theatre , he said as they entered the drawing room . 
She had crossed the room and was bending over the hearth to light the fire . 
These privileges were his and , however deferently and tenderly he claimed them , the joyous ease of his manner marked a difference and proclaimed a right . 
After the theatre they came home like this , she thought and at the same instant she felt his hands on her shoulders and shrank back . 
Don't oh , don't ! she cried , drawing her cloak about her . 
She saw from his astonished stare that her face must be quivering with pain . 
Anna ! What on earth is the matter ? Owen knows ! she broke out , with a confused desire to justify herself . 
Did he tell you so ? What did he say ? Nothing ! I knew it from the things he didn't say . 
You had a talk with him this afternoon ? Yes for a few minutes . 
I could see he didn't want me to stay . 
She had dropped into a chair , and sat there huddled , still holding her cloak about her shoulders . 
Darrow did not dispute her assumption , and she noticed that he expressed no surprise . 
He sat down at a little distance from her , turning about in his fingers the cigar case he had drawn out as they came in . 
At length he said Had he seen Miss Viner ? She shrank from the sound of the name . 
They remained silent , looking away from one another . 
Finally Darrow stood up and took a few steps across the room . 
He came back and paused before her , his eyes on her face . 
I think you ought to tell me what you mean to do . 
She raised her head and gave him back his look . 
Nothing I do can help Owen ! No but things can't go on like this . 
He paused , as if to measure his words . 
I fill you with aversion , he exclaimed . 
She started up , half sobbing . 
She felt that he was standing a little way behind her , but he made no attempt to touch her or come nearer . 
I know you've felt as I've felt , he said in a low voice that we belong to each other and that nothing can alter that . 
But other thoughts come , and you can't banish them . 
Whenever you see me you remember . 
you associate me with things you abhor . 
You've given me all the chances a woman could but if it's only made you suffer , what's the use ? She turned to him with a tear stained face . 
It hasn't only done that . 
Oh , no ! I know . 
He took her hand and raised it to his lips . 
They'll be with me as long as I live . 
But I can't see you paying such a price for them . 
I'm not worth what I'm costing you . 
Perhaps that will make me forget . 
I ought to have made you tell me before . 
Wherever we go , I imagine you've been there with her . 
I want to know how it began , where you went , why you left her . 
I want to know everything , she repeated . 
It's the only way to make me forget . 
After she had ceased speaking Darrow remained where he was , his arms folded , his eyes lowered , immovable . 
She waited , her gaze on his face . 
Aren't you going to tell me ? No. The blood rushed to her temples . 
You won't ? Why not ? If I did , do you suppose you'd forget THAT ? Oh she moaned , and turned away from him . 
You see it's impossible , he went on . 
I've done a thing I loathe , and to atone for it you ask me to do another . 
What sort of satisfaction would that give you ? It would put something irremediable between us . 
She leaned her elbow against the mantel shelf and hid her face in her hands . 
She had the sense that she was vainly throwing away her last hope of happiness , yet she could do nothing , think of nothing , to save it . 
The tears welled through her lids and ran slowly down between her fingers . 
Good bye , she heard him say , and his footsteps turned to the door . 
She tried to raise her head , but the weight of her despair bowed it down . 
She said to herself This is the end . 
he won't try to appeal to me again . 
and she remained in a sort of tranced rigidity , perceiving without feeling the fateful lapse of the seconds . 
Then the cords that bound her seemed to snap , and she lifted her head and saw him going . 
Why , he's mine he's mine ! He's no one else's ! His face was turned to her and the look in his eyes swept away all her terrors . 
She no longer understood what had prompted her senseless outcry and the mortal sweetness of loving him became again the one real fact in the world . 
XXXIX Anna , the next day , woke to a humiliated memory of the previous evening . 
Darrow had been right in saying that their sacrifice would benefit no one yet she seemed dimly to discern that there were obligations not to be tested by that standard . 
For a long time she brooded on her plight , vaguely conscious that the only escape from it must come from some external chance . 
And slowly the occasion shaped itself in her mind . 
It was Sophy Viner only who could save her Sophy Viner only who could give her back her lost serenity . 
Any pretext for action was a kind of anodyne , and she despatched her maid to the Farlows' with a note asking if Miss Viner would receive her . 
She's kept faith with herself and I haven't , Anna mused and the thought was a fresh incentive to action . 
but Mrs. Farlow's celebrities were legion , and the name on the slip of paper Mrs. McTarvie Birch did not seem to have any definite association with fame . 
Anna , doubtful if she understood , asked if he merely meant that the young lady was out at the moment but he replied that she had gone away the day before . 
Beyond this he had no information to impart , and after a moment's hesitation Anna sent him back to enquire if Mrs. McTarvie Birch would receive her . 
She reflected that Sophy had probably pledged her sister to the same secrecy as Mrs. Farlow , and that a personal appeal to Mrs. Birch might lead to less negative results . 
There was another long interval of suspense before the porter reappeared with an affirmative answer and a third while an exiguous and hesitating lift bore her up past a succession of shabby landings . 
Just a minute , he smiled I think the masseur's with her . 
Mrs. Birch , flinging herself forward , gasped out If you'd just give him a caramel . 
there , in that box on the dressing table . 
it's the only earthly thing to stop him . 
and when Anna had proffered this sop to her assailant , and he had withdrawn with it beneath the bedspread , his mistress sank back with a laugh . 
Isn't he a beauty ? The Prince gave him to me down at Nice the other day but he's perfectly awful , she confessed , beaming intimately on her visitor . 
Mrs. McTarvie Birch threw back her head with a long stare . 
Do you mean to say the idiot at the door didn't tell you ? Sophy went away last night . 
Last night ? Anna echoed . 
A sudden terror had possessed her . 
Mrs. Farlow seemed to think that I should find her here . 
It was all so sudden that I don't suppose she had time to let the Farlows know . 
She didn't get Mrs. Murrett's wire till yesterday , and she just pitched her things into a trunk and rushed Mrs. Murrett ? Why , yes . 
Sophy's gone to India with Mrs. Murrett they're to meet at Brindisi , Sophy's sister said with a calm smile . 
Anna sat motionless , gazing at the disordered room , the pink bed , the trivial face among the pillows . 
As an artist , of course , it's perfectly impossible for me to have her with me . 
Of course , Anna mechanically assented . 
Through the confused pain of her thoughts she was hardly aware that Mrs. Birch's explanations were still continuing . 
Naturally I didn't altogether approve of her going back to that beast of a woman . 
I said all I could . 
I told her she was a fool to chuck up such a place as yours . 
But Sophy's restless always was and she's taken it into her head she'd rather travel . 
Anna rose from her seat , groping for some formula of leave taking . 
The pushing back of her chair roused the white dog's smouldering animosity , and he drowned his mistress's further confidences in another outburst of hysterics . 
Anna murmured a word of thanks and turned to the door . 
