i i Introduction copyright by Rita Mae Brown . 
For information address Bantam Books . 
i ISBN i Published simultaneously in the United States and Canada i i Bantam Books are published by Bantam Books , a division of Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group , Inc . 
Its trademark , consisting of the words Bantam Books and the portrayal of a rooster , is Registered in U. S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries . 
Bantam Books , Fifth Avenue , New York , New York . 
North , east , south , stretched the level Nebraska plain of long rust red grass that undulated constantly in the wind . 
If it had not been for the few stunted cottonwoods and elms that grew along its banks , Canute would have shot himself years ago . 
The Norwegians are a timber loving people , and if there is even a turtle pond with a few plum bushes around it they seem irresistibly drawn toward it . 
It was built of logs split in halves , the chinks stopped with mud and plaster . 
The roof was covered with earth and was supported by one gigantic beam curved in the shape of a round arch . 
It was almost impossible that any tree had ever grown in that shape . 
The Norwegians used to say that Canute had taken the log across his knee and bent it into the shape he wished . 
There were two rooms , or rather there was one room with a partition made of ash saplings interwoven and bound together like big straw basket work . 
In one corner there was a cook stove , rusted and broken . 
In the other a bed made of unplaned planks and poles . 
it was fully eight feet long , and upon it was a heap of dark bed clothing . 
There was a chair and a bench of colossal proportions . 
There was an ordinary kitchen cupboard with a few cracked dirty dishes in it , and beside it on a tall box a tin washbasin . 
Under the bed was a pile of pint flasks , some broken , some whole , all empty . 
On the wood box lay a pair of shoes of almost incredible dimensions . 
Over the door hung a wolf and a badger skin , and on the door itself a brace of thirty or forty snake skins whose noisy tails rattled ominously every time it opened . 
The strangest things in the shanty were the wide windowsills . 
There seemed to be a series of pictures . 
They were , in a rough way , artistic , but the figures were heavy and labored , as though they had been cut very slowly and with very awkward instruments . 
There were men plowing with little horned imps sitting on their shoulders and on their horses' heads . 
There were men praying with a skull hanging over their heads and little demons behind them mocking their attitudes . 
There were men fighting with big serpents , and skeletons dancing together . 
It was a veritable Dance of Death by one who had felt its sting . 
In the wood box lay some boards , and every inch of them was cut up in the same manner . 
Sometimes the work was very rude and careless , and looked as though the hand of the workman had trembled . 
Several of these boards had been split for kindling and it was evident that the artist did not value his work highly . 
It was the first day of winter on the Divide . 
Canute stumbled into his shanty carrying a basket of . 
He knew by heart every individual clump of bunch grass in the miles of red shaggy prairie that stretched before his cabin . 
He knew it in all the deceitful loveliness of its early summer , in all the bitter barrenness of its autumn . 
He had seen it smitten by all the plagues of Egypt . 
After the great fires he had seen it stretch for miles and miles , black and smoking as the floor of hell . 
He rose slowly and crossed the room , dragging his big feet heavily as though they were burdens to him . 
He looked out of the window into the hog corral and saw the pigs burying themselves in the straw before the shed . 
He shuddered and began to walk , trampling heavily with his ungainly feet . 
He was the wreck of ten winters on the Divide and he knew what that meant . 
Men fear the winters of the Divide as a child fears night or as men in the North Seas fear the still dark cold of the polar twilight . 
His eyes fell upon his gun , and he took it down from the wall and looked it over . 
He sat down on the edge of his bed and held the barrel towards his face , letting his forehead rest upon it , and laid his finger on the trigger . 
He was perfectly calm , there was neither passion nor despair in his face , but the thoughtful look of a man who is considering . 
Presently he laid down the gun , and reaching into the cupboard , drew out a pint bottle of raw white alcohol . 
Lifting it to his lips , he drank greedily . 
He washed his face in the tin basin and combed his rough hair and shaggy blond beard . 
Then he stood in uncertainty before the suit of dark clothes that hung on the wall . 
For the fiftieth time he took them in his hands and tried to summon courage to put them on . 
With a short laugh he threw it down on the bed , and pulling on his old black hat , he went out , striking off across the level . 
It was a physical necessity for him to get away from his cabin once in a while . 
He had been there for ten years , digging and plowing and sowing , and reaping what little the hail and the hot winds and the frosts left him to reap . 
Insanity and suicide are very common things on the Divide . 
They come on like an epidemic in the hot wind season . 
Those scorching dusty winds that blow up over the bluffs from Kansas seem to dry up the blood in men's veins as they do the sap in the corn leaves . 
It may be that the next generation on the Divide will be very happy , but the present one came too late in life . 
After a man has passed his fortieth birthday it is not easy for him to change the habits and conditions of his life . 
Most men bring with them to the Divide only the dregs of the lives that they have squandered in other lands and among other peoples . 
Canute Canuteson was as mad as any of them , but his madness did not take the form of suicide or religion but of alcohol . 
He had always taken liquor when he wanted it , as all Norwegians do , but after his first year of solitary life he settled down to it steadily . 
He exhausted whisky after a while , and went to alcohol , because its effects were speedier and surer . 
He was a big man and with a terrible amount of resistant force , and it took a great deal of alcohol even to move him . 
After nine years of drinking , the quantities he could take would seem fabulous to an ordinary drinking man . 
He never let it interfere with his work , he generally drank at night and on Sundays . 
Every night , as soon as his chores were done , he began to drink . 
While he was able to sit up he would play on his mouth harp or hack away at his window sills with his jackknife . 
When the liquor went to his head he would lie down on his bed and stare out of the window until he went to sleep . 
He drank alone and in solitude not for pleasure or good cheer , but to forget the awful loneliness and level of the Divide . 
Milton made a sad blunder when he put mountains in hell . 
Mountains postulate faith and aspiration . 
All mountain peoples are religious . 
It was the cities of the plains that , because of their utter lack of spirituality and the mad caprice of their vice , were cursed of God . 
Alcohol is perfectly consistent in its effects upon man . 
Drunkenness is merely an exaggeration . 
A foolish man drunk becomes maudlin a bloody man , vicious a coarse man , vulgar . 
Canute was none of these , but he was morose and gloomy , and liquor took him through all the hells of Dante . 
As he lay on his giant's bed all the horrors of this world and every other were laid bare to his chilled senses . 
He was a man who knew no joy , a man who toiled in silence and bitterness . 
The skull and the serpent were always before him , the symbols of eternal futileness and of eternal hate . 
When the first Norwegians near enough to be called neighbors came , Canute rejoiced , and planned to escape from his bosom vice . 
But he was not a social man by nature and had not the power of drawing out the social side of other people . 
His new neighbors rather feared him because of his great strength and size , his silence and his lowering brows . 
Before autumn the lagoons are dried up , and the ground is burnt dry and hard until it blisters and cracks open . 
So instead of becoming a friend and neighbor to the men that settled about him , Canute became a mystery and a terror . 
They told awful stories of his size and strength and of the alcohol he drank . 
His foot was caught fast in the floor , and the nervous horse began kicking frantically . 
All through the darkness and cold of the night he lay there , matching strength against strength . 
This is the story the Norwegians tell of him , and if it is true it is no wonder that they feared and hated this Holder of the Heels of Horses . 
One spring there moved to the next eighty a family that made a great change in Canute's life . 
No one could quite see how the affair had come about , for Canute's tactics of courtship were somewhat peculiar . 
He apparently never spoke to her at all he would sit for hours with Mary chattering on one side of him and Ole drinking on the other and watch Lena at her work . 
She teased him , and threw flour in his face and put vinegar in his coffee , but he took her rough jokes with silent wonder , never even smiling . 
He took her to church occasionally , but the most watchful and curious people never saw him speak to her . 
He would sit staring at her while she giggled and flirted with the other men . 
Next spring Mary Lee went to town to work in a steam laundry . 
In a few weeks Lena's head was completely turned , and she gave her father no rest until he let her go to town to seek her fortune at the ironing board . 
From the time she came home on her first visit she began to treat Canute with contempt . 
She generally brought with her a young man from town who waxed his mustache and wore a red necktie , and she did not even introduce him to Canute . 
The neighbors teased Canute a good deal until he knocked one of them down . 
Canute had bought a new suit of clothes that looked as nearly like the town man I s as possible . 
They had cost him half a millet crop for tailors are not accustomed to fitting giants and they charge for it . 
Lena was at home just at this time . 
Work was slack in the laundry and Mary had not been well , so Lena stayed at home , glad enough to get an opportunity to torment Canute once more . 
She was washing in the side kitchen , singing loudly as she worked . 
Mary was on her knees , blacking the stove and scolding violently about the young man who was coming out from town that night . 
The young man had committed the fatal error of laughing at Mary's ceaseless babble and had never been forgiven . 
He is no good , and you will come to a bad end by running with him ! I do not see why a daughter of mine should act so . 
I do not see why the Lord should visit such a punishment upon me as to give me such a daughter . 
There are plenty of good men you can marry . 
Money to spend ? Yes , and that is all he does with it I'll be bound . 
You think it very fine now , but you will change your tune when you have been married five years and see your children running naked and your cupboard empty . 
Yes , and a nice lot of store clothes huzzies you are too . 
I can have all the fun I want , and when I am old and ugly like you he can have me and take care of me . 
The Lord knows there ain't nobody else going to marry him . 
Canute drew his hand back from the latch as though it were red hot . 
He was not the kind of man to make a good eavesdropper , and he wished he had knocked sooner . 
He pulled himself together and struck the door like a battering ram . 
Mary jumped and opened it with a screech . 
God ! Canute , how you scared us ! I thought it was crazy Lou he has been tearing around the neighborhood trying to convert folks . 
I am afraid as death of him . 
He ought to be sent off , I think . 
He is just as liable as not to kill us all , or burn the barn , or poison the dogs . 
Yensen isn't here , but he just went over to Sorenson's for the mail he won't be gone long . 
Walk right in the other room and sit down . 
Canute followed her , looking steadily in front of him and not noticing Lena as he passed her . 
But Lena's vanity would not allow him to pass unmolested . 
She took the wet sheet she was wringing out and cracked him across the face with it , and ran giggling to the other side of the room . 
The blow stung his cheeks and the soapy water flew in his eves , and he involuntarily began rubbing them with his hands . 
Lena giggled with delight at his discomfiture , and the wrath in Canute's face grew blacker than ever . 
A big man humiliated is vastly more undignified than a little one . 
He dropped into a chair behind the stove , thrusting his big feet back helplessly on either side of him . 
His life had been one long lethargy of solitude and alcohol , but now he was awakening , and it was as when the dumb stagnant heat of summer breaks out into thunder . 
When Ole came staggering in , heavy with liquor , Canute rose at once . 
Yensen , he said quietly , I have come to see if you will let me marry your daughter today . 
Yes , I will not wait until tomorrow . 
I am tired of living alone . 
And Ole began looking anxiously for his feet . 
Canute answered not a word , but he put on his hat and went out into the kitchen . 
She lifted a sheet to strike him , but he caught her arm roughly and wrenched the sheet from her . 
He turned to the wall and took down a hood and shawl that hung there , and began wrapping her up . 
Lena scratched and fought like a wild thing . 
Ole stood in the door , cursing , and Mary howled and screeched at the top of her voice . 
As for Canute , he lifted the girl in his arms and went out of the house . 
She was conscious only of the north wind whistling in her ears , and of rapid steady motion and of a great breast that heaved beneath her in quick , irregular breaths . 
Canute was striding across the level fields at a pace at which man never went before , drawing the stinging north winds into his lungs in great gulps . 
When Canute reached his shanty he placed the girl upon a chair , where she sat sobbing . 
He stayed only a few minutes . 
He filled the stove with wood and lit the lamp , drank a huge swallow of alcohol and put the bottle in his pocket . 
He paused a moment , staring heavily at the weeping girl , then he went off and locked the door and disappeared in the gathering gloom of the night . 
Come in , Canute , you must be frozen , said the little man , shoving a chair towards his visitor . 
Canute remained standing with his hat on and said quietly , I want you to come over to my house tonight to marry me to Lena Yensen . 
Have you got a license , Canute ? No , I don't want a license . 
I want to be married . 
But I can't marry you without a license , man . 
it would not be legal . 
A dangerous light came in the big Norwegian's eye . 
I want you to come over to my house to marry me to Lena Yensen . 
No , I can't , it would kill an ox to go out in a storm like this , and my rheumatism is bad tonight . 
Then if you will not go I must take you , said Canute with a sigh . 
He took down the preacher's bearskin coat and bade him put it on while he hitched up his buggy . 
He went out and closed the door softly after him . 
Presently he returned and found the frightened minister crouching before the fire with his coat lying beside him . 
Canute helped him put it on and gently wrapped his head in his big muffler . 
Then he picked him up and carried him out and placed him in his buggy . 
As he tucked the buffalo robes around him be said Your horse is old , he might flounder or lose his way in this storm . 
The minister took the reins feebly in his hands and sat shivering with the cold . 
Sometimes when there was a lull in the wind , he could see the horse struggling through the snow with the man plodding steadily beside him . 
Again the blowing snow would hide them from him altogether . 
He had no idea where they were or what direction they were going . 
He felt as though he were being whirled away in the heart of the storm , and he said all the prayers he knew . 
But at last the long four miles were over , and Canute set him down in the snow while he unlocked the door . 
He saw the bride sitting by the fire with her eyes red and swollen as though she had been weeping . 
Canute placed a huge chair for him , and said roughly , Warm yourself . 
Lena began to cry and moan afresh , begging the minister to take her home . 
He looked helplessly at Canute . 
Canute said simply , If you are warm now , you can marry us . 
My daughter , do you take this step of your own free will ? asked the minister in a trembling voice . 
No , sir , I don't , and it is disgraceful he should force me into it ! I won't marry him . 
Then , Canute , I cannot marry you , said the minister , standing as straight as his rheumatic limbs would let him . 
Are you ready to marry us now , sir ? said Canute , laying one iron hand on his stooped shoulder . 
So with many qualms of conscience he began to repeat the marriage service . 
Lena sat sullenly in her chair , staring at the fire . 
Canute stood beside her , listening with his head bent reverently and his hands folded on his breast . 
When the little man had prayed and said amen , Canute began bundling him up again . 
After she was left alone , Lena soon ceased weeping . 
She was not of a particularly sensitive temperament , and had little pride beyond that of vanity . 
After the first bitter anger wore itself out , she felt nothing more than a healthy sense of humiliation and defeat . 
She had no inclination to run away , for she was married now , and in her eyes that was final and all rebellion was useless . 
She knew nothing about a license , but she knew that a preacher married folks . 
She consoled herself by thinking that she had always intended to marry Canute someday , anyway . 
She grew tired of crying and looking into the fire , so she got up and began to look about her . 
She had heard queer tales about the inside of Canute's shanty , and her curiosity soon got the better of her rage . 
One of the first things she noticed was the new black suit of clothes hanging on the wall . 
She was dull , but it did not take a vain woman long to interpret anything so decidedly flattering , and she was pleased in spite of herself . 
As she looked through the cupboard , the general air of neglect and discomfort made her pity the man who lived there . 
Poor fellow , no wonder he wants to get married to get somebody to wash up his dishes . 
Batchin's pretty hard on a man . 
It is easy to pity when once one's vanity has been tickled . 
She looked at the windowsill and gave a little shudder and wondered if the man were crazy . 
Then she sat down again and sat a long time wondering what her Dick and Ole would do . 
It is queer Dick didn't come right over after me . 
He surely came , for he would have left town before the storm began and he might just as well come right on as go back . 
If he'd hurried he would have gotten here before the preacher came . 
I suppose he was afraid to come , for he knew Canuteson could pound him to jelly , the coward ! Her eyes flashed angrily . 
The weary hours wore on and Lena began to grow horribly lonesome . 
It was an uncanny night and this was an uncanny place to be in . 
She could hear the coyotes howling hungrily a little way from the cabin , and more terrible still were all the unknown noises of the storm . 
She remembered the tales they told of the big log overhead and she was afraid of those snaky things on the windowsills . 
She remembered the man who had been killed in the draw , and she wondered what she would do if she saw crazy Lou's white face glaring into the window . 
The rattling of the door became unbearable , she thought the latch must be loose and took the lamp to look at it . 
Then for the first time she saw the ugly brown snake skins whose death rattle sounded every time the wind jarred the door . 
Canute , Canute ! she screamed in terror . 
Outside the door she heard a heavy sound as of a big dog getting up and shaking himself . 
The door opened and Canute stood before her , white as a snow drift . 
What is it ? he asked kindly . 
I am cold , she faltered . 
He went out and got an armful of wood and a basket of cobs and filled the stove . 
Then he went out and lay in the snow before the door . 
Presently he heard her calling again . 
What is it ? he said , sitting up . 
I'm so lonesome , I'm afraid to stay in here all alone . 
I will go over and get your mother . 
I'll bring her , said Canute grimly . 
I don't want her , she will scold all the time . 
Well , I will bring your father . 
She spoke again and it seemed as though her mouth was close up to the key hole . 
She spoke lower than he had ever heard her speak before , so low that he had to put his ear up to the lock to hear her . 
I don't want him either , Canute , I'd rather have you . 
For a moment she heard no noise at all , then something like a groan . 
With a cry of fear she opened the door , and saw Canute stretched in the snow at her feet , his face in his hands , sobbing on the doorstep . 
Eric Hermannson's Soul It was a great night at the Lone Star schoolhouse a night when the Spirit was present with power and when God was very near to man . 
So it seemed to Asa Skinner , servant of God and Free Gospeller . 
The schoolhouse was crowded with the saved and sanctified , robust men and women , trembling and quailing before the power of some mysterious psychic force . 
On the floor before the mourners' bench lay the unconscious figure of a man in whom outraged nature had sought her last resort . 
This trance state is the highest evidence of grace among the Free Gospellers , and indicates a close walking with God . 
Before the desk stood Asa Skinner , shouting of the mercy and vengeance of God , and in his eyes shone a terrible earnestness , an almost prophetic flame . 
Asa was a converted train gambler who used to run between Omaha and Denver . 
He was a man made for the extremes of life from the most debauched of men he had become the most ascetic . 
His was a bestial face , a . 
face that bore the stamp of Nature's eternal injustice . 
The forehead was low , projecting over the eyes , and the sandy hair was plastered down over it and then brushed back at an abrupt right angle . 
The chin was heavy , the nostrils were low and wide , and the lower lip hung loosely except in his moments of spasmodic earnestness , when it shut like a steel trap . 
Over those seamed cheeks there was a certain pallor , a greyness caught from many a vigil . 
It was as though , after Nature had done her worst with that face , some fine chisel had gone over it , chastening and almost transfiguring it . 
Tonight , as his muscles twitched with emotion , and the perspiration dropped from his hair and chin , there was a certain convincing power in the man . 
This was with Asa Skinner tonight , as he stood proclaiming the vengeance of God . 
Poor exiles of all nations men from the south and the north , peasants from almost every country of Europe , most of them from the mountainous , night bound coast of Norway . 
Never had Asa Skinner spoken more earnestly than now . 
He felt that the Lord had this night a special work for him to do . 
The violin is an object of particular abhorrence to the Free Gospellers . 
Eric Hermannson had long been the object of the prayers of the revivalists . 
His mother had felt the power of the Spirit weeks ago , and special prayer meetings had been held at her house for her son . 
But Eric had only gone his ways laughing , the ways of youth , which are short enough at best , and none too flowery on the Divide . 
On such occasions Lena , attired in a pink wrapper and silk stockings and tiny pink slippers , would sing to him , accompanying herself on a battered guitar . 
Yet , careless as he seemed , the frantic prayers of his mother were not altogether without their effect upon Eric . 
For days he had been fleeing before them as a criminal from his pursuers , and over his pleasures had fallen the shadow of something dark and terrible that dogged his steps . 
The harder he danced , the louder he sang , the more was he conscious that this phantom was gaining upon him , that in time it would track him down . 
He was not afraid of snakes , but he knew enough of Gospellism to feel the significance of the reptile lying coiled there upon her doorstep . 
His lips were cold when he kissed Lena goodbye , and he went there no more . 
It stood , to him , for all the manifestations of art it was his only bridge into the kingdom of the soul . 
It was to Eric Hermannson that the evangelist directed his impassioned pleading that night . 
The minister fell upon his knees and threw his long arms up over his head . 
O my brothers ! I feel it coming , the blessing we have prayed for . 
I tell you the Spirit is coming ! just a little more prayer , brothers , a little more zeal , and he will be here . 
I can feel his cooling wing upon my brow . 
Glory be to God forever and ever , amen ! The whole congregation groaned under the pressure of this spiritual panic . 
Shouts and hallelujahs went up from every lip . 
Another figure fell prostrate upon the floor . 
A groan of ultimate anguish rose from Eric Hermannson's bowed head , and the sound was like the groan of a great tree when it falls in the forest . 
In the name of God , and Jesus Christ his Son , I throw you the life line . 
Take hold ! Almighty God , my soul for his ! The minister threw his arms out and lifted his quivering face . 
Eric Hermannson rose to his feet his lips were set and the lightning was in his eyes . 
He took his violin by the neck and crushed it to splinters across his knee , and to Asa Skinner the sound was like the shackles of sin broken audibly asunder . 
She was a girl of other manners and conditions , and there were greater distances between her life and Eric's than all the miles which separated Rattlesnake Creek from New York City . 
These young men did not always return to the ways of civilized life . 
But Wyllis Elliot had not married a half breed , nor been shot in a cowpunchers' brawl , nor wrecked by bad whisky , nor appropriated by a smirched adventuress . 
On this , his first visit to his father's ranch since he left it six years before , he brought her with him . 
She had been laid up half the winter from a sprain received while skating , and had had too much time for reflection during those months . 
She was restless and filled with a desire to see something of the wild country of which her brother had told her so much . 
it comes to all women of her type that desire to taste the unknown which allures and terrifies , to run one's whole soul's length out to the wind just once . 
It had been an eventful journey . 
Wyllis somehow understood that strain of gypsy blood in his sister , and he knew where to take her . 
For the moment the life and people of the Divide interested her . 
She was there but a week perhaps had she stayed longer , that inexorable ennui which travels faster even than the Vestibule Limited would have overtaken her . 
The week she tarried there was the week that Eric Hermannson was helping Jerry Lockhart thresh a week earlier or a week later , and there would have been no story to write . 
It was on Thursday and they were to leave on Saturday . 
The young man pulled his cap lower over his eyes and remarked This wind is the real thing you don't strike it anywhere else . 
You remember we had a touch of it in Algiers and I told you it came from Kansas . 
It's the keynote of this country . 
Wyllis touched her hand that lay on the hammock and continued gently I hope it's paid you , Sis . 
Roughing it's dangerous business it takes the taste out of things . 
She shut her fingers firmly over the brown hand that was so like her own . 
Paid ? Why , Wyllis , I haven't been so happy since we were children and were going to discover the ruins of Troy together some day . 
Do you know , I believe I could just stay on here forever and let the world go on its own gait . 
Wyllis brushed the ashes of his pipe away from the silk handkerchief that was knotted about his neck and stared moodily off at the skyline . 
This would bore you after a while . 
You can't shake the fever of the other life . 
There was a time when the gay fellows of Rome could trot down into the Thebaid and burrow into the sandhills and get rid of it . 
But it's all too complex now . 
You see we've made our dissipations so dainty and respectable that they've gone further in than the flesh , and taken hold of the ego proper . 
You couldn't rest , even here . 
The war cry would follow you . 
You don't waste words , Wyllis , but you never miss fire . 
I talk more than you do , without saying half so much . 
You must have learned the art of silence from these taciturn Norwegians . 
I think I like silent men . 
Naturally , said Wyllis , since you have decided to marry the most brilliant talker you know . 
Both were silent for a time , listening to the sighing of the hot wind through the parched morning glory vines . 
Tell me , Wyllis , were many of the Norwegians you used to know as interesting as Eric Hermannson ? Who , Siegfried ? Well , no . 
He used to be the flower of the Norwegian youth in my day , and he's rather an exception , even now . 
He has retrograded , though . 
The bonds of the soil have tightened on him , I fancy . 
Siegfried ? Come , that's rather good , Wyllis . 
He looks like a dragon slayer . 
What is it that makes him so different from the others ? I can talk to him he seems quite like a human being . 
i Nicht wahr ? i Something like that , said Margaret , thoughtfully , except that it's more than a suspicion , and it isn't groundless . 
He has one , and he makes it known , somehow , without speaking . 
I always have my doubts about loquacious souls , Wyllis remarked , with the unbelieving smile that had grown habitual with him . 
Margaret went on , not heeding the interruption . 
I knew it from the first , when he told me about the suicide of his cousin , the Bernstein boy . 
That kind of blunt pathos can't be summoned at will in anybody . 
The earlier novelists rose to it , sometimes , unconsciously . 
But last night when I sang for him I was doubly sure . 
Oh , I haven't told you about that yet ! Better light your pipe again . 
Well , Eric stumbled in , and in some inarticulate manner made me understand that he wanted me to sing for him . 
I sang just the old things , of course . 
It's queer to sing familiar things here at the world's end . 
It makes one think how the hearts of men have carried them around the world , into the wastes of Iceland and the jungles of Africa and the islands of the Pacific . 
And of course I played the intermezzo from i Cavalleria Rusticana i for him it goes rather better on an organ than most things do . 
He shuffled his feet and twisted his big hands up into knots and blurted out that he didn't know there was any music like that in the world . 
Why , there were tears in his voice , Wyllis ! Yes , like Rossetti , I i heard i his tears . 
Then it dawned upon me that it was probably the first good music be had ever heard in all his life . 
I can't tell you what music means to that man . 
I never saw any one so susceptible to it . 
It gave him speech , he became alive . 
When I had finished the intermezzo , he began telling me about a little crippled brother who died and whom he loved and used to carry everywhere in his arms . 
He did not wait for encouragement . 
He took up the story and told it slowly , as if to himself , just sort of rose up and told his own woe to answer Mascagni's . 
Poor devil , said Wyllis , looking at her with mysterious eyes , and so you've given him a new woe . 
Now he'll go on wanting Grieg and Schubert the rest of his days and never getting them . 
Jerry sat down on the step and smiled his broad , red smile at Margaret . 
Well , I've got the music for your dance , Miss Elliot . 
Delightful ! Mr. Lockhart , that dance will be the feature of our trip , and it's so nice of you to get it up for us . 
We'll see the Norwegians in character at last , cried Margaret , cordially . 
See here , Lockhart , I'll settle with you for backing her in this scheme , said Wyllis , sitting up and knocking the ashes out of his pipe . 
To get up at three , think what that means ! No , sir , I prefer to keep my vigil and then get into a sleeper . 
But what do you want with the Norwegians ? I thought you were tired of dancing . 
So I am , with some people . 
But I want to see a Norwegian dance , and I intend to . 
Come , Wyllis , you know how seldom it is that one really wants to do anything nowadays . 
I wonder when I have really wanted to go to a party before . 
It will be something to remember next month at Newport , when we have to and don't want to . 
Remember your own theory that contrast is about the only thing that makes life endurable . 
This is my party and Mr. Lockhart's your whole duty tomorrow night will consist in being nice to the Norwegian girls . 
I'll warrant you were adept enough at it once . 
Wyllis groaned and sank back into the hammock to consider his fate , while his sister went on . 
And the guests , Mr. Lockhart , did they accept ? Lockhart took out his knife and began sharpening it on the sole of his plowshoe . 
Well , I guess we'll have a couple dozen . 
You see it's pretty hard to get a crowd together here any more . 
Most of 'em have gone over to the Free Gospellers , and they'd rather put their feet in the fire than shake 'em to a fiddle . 
Margaret made a gesture of impatience . 
That's about the way it goes . 
Now there's Eric that chap used to be a hustler and the spryest dancer in all this section called all the dances . 
Now he's got no ambition and he's glum as a preacher . 
I don't suppose we can even get him to come in tomorrow night . 
Eric ? Why , he must dance , we can't let him off , said Margaret , quickly . 
Why , I intend to dance with him myself . 
I'm afraid he won't dance . 
I asked him this morning if he'd help us out and he said , 'I don't dance now , any more , said Lockhart , imitating the laboured English of the Norwegian . 
'The Miller of Hofbau , the Miller of Hofbau , O my Princess ! chirped Wyllis , cheerfully , from his hammock . 
The red on his sister's cheek deepened a little , and she laughed mischievously . 
We'll see about that , sir . 
I'll not admit that I am beaten until I have asked him myself . 
Every night Eric rode over to St . 
Anne , a little village in the heart of the French settlement , for the mail . 
As the road lay through the most attractive part of the Divide country , on several occasions Margaret Elliot and her brother had accompanied him . 
Tonight Wyllis had business with Lockhart , and Margaret rode with Eric , mounted on a frisky little mustang that Mrs. Lockhart had broken to the sidesaddle . 
Margaret regarded her escort very much as she did the servant who always accompanied her on long rides at home , and the ride to the village was a silent one . 
She was occupied with thoughts of another world , and Eric was wrestling with more thoughts than had ever been crowded into his head before . 
He rode with his eyes riveted on that slight figure before him , as though he wished to absorb it through the optic nerves and hold it in his brain forever . 
He understood the situation perfectly . 
His brain worked slowly , but he had a keen sense of the values of things . 
This girl represented an entirely new species of humanity to him , but he knew where to place her . 
The prophets of old , when an angel first appeared unto them , never doubted its high origin . 
Eric was patient under the adverse conditions of his life , but he was not servile . 
The Norse blood in him had not entirely lost its self reliance . 
He had in those days a certain pride of bearing , a certain confidence of approach , that usually accompanies physical perfection . 
It was even said of him then that he was in love with life , and inclined to levity , a vice most unusual on the Divide . 
But the sad history of those Norwegian exiles , transplanted in an arid soil and under a scorching sun , had repeated itself in his case . 
Toil and isolation had sobered him , and he grew more and more like the clods among which he laboured . 
After that , the gloom of his people settled down upon him , and the gospel of maceration began its work . 
i If thine eye offend thee , pluck it out , i et cetera . 
The pagan smile that once hovered about his lips was gone , and he was one with sorrow . 
This man understood things literally one must live without pleasure to die without fear to save the soul , it was necessary to starve the soul . 
The sun hung low above the cornfields when Margaret and her cavalier left St . 
South of the town there is a stretch of road that runs for some three miles through the French settlement , where the prairie is as level as the surface of a lake . 
There the fields of flax and wheat and rye are bordered by precise rows of slender , tapering Lombard poplars . 
It was a yellow world that Margaret Elliot saw under the wide light of the setting sun . 
They were off like the wind . 
It is an old saying in the West that newcomers always ride a horse or two to death before they get broken in to the country . 
They are tempted by the great open spaces and try to outride the horizon , to get to the end of something . 
Margaret galloped over the level road , and Eric , from behind , saw her long veil fluttering in the wind . 
It had fluttered just so in his dreams last night and the night before . 
With a sudden inspiration of courage he overtook her and rode beside her , looking intently at her half averted face . 
Men of the world would have said that it was an unusual face , nervous , finely cut , with clear , elegant lines that betokened ancestry . 
But Eric read no meaning in these details . 
To him this beauty was something more than colour and line it was a flash of white light , in which one cannot distinguish colour because all colours are there . 
At times he felt like uncovering his head before it , again the fury seized him to break and despoil , to find the clay in this spirit thing and stamp upon it . 
But near her , he never questioned this strength he admitted its potentiality as he admitted the miracles of the Bible it enervated and conquered him . 
Tonight , when he rode so close to her that he could have touched her , he knew that he might as well reach out his hand to take a star . 
Margaret stirred uneasily under his gaze and turned questioningly in her saddle . 
This wind puts me a little out of breath when we ride fast , she said . 
Eric turned his eyes away . 
Margaret looked at him with surprise , and then , as she studied the outline of his face , pityingly . 
Well , you might but you'd lose a good deal else . 
I shouldn't like you to go to New York and be poor , you'd be out of atmosphere , some way , she said , slowly . 
Inwardly she was thinking i There he would be altogether sordid , impossible a machine who would carry one's trunks upstairs , perhaps . 
Here he is every inch a man , rather picturesque why is it ? i No , she added aloud , I shouldn't like that . 
Then I not go , said Eric , decidedly . 
Margaret turned her face to hide a smile . 
She was a trifle amused and a trifle annoyed . 
But I'll tell you what I do want you to do , Eric . 
I want you to dance with us tomorrow night and teach me some of the Norwegian dances they say you know them all . 
Won't you ? Eric straightened himself in his saddle and his eyes flashed as they had done in the Lone Star schoolhouse when he broke his violin across his knee . 
Yes , I will , he said , quietly , and he believed that he delivered his soul to hell as he said it . 
Margaret called to Eric just as he threw himself out of the saddle and caught her pony's bit . 
But the wiry little animal had gone mad and was kicking and biting like a devil . 
Her wild brothers of the range were all about her , neighing , and pawing the earth , and striking her with their forefeet and snapping at her flanks . 
It was the old liberty of the range that the little beast fought for . 
He succeeded in wrenching the pony's head toward him and crowding her withers against the clay bank , so that she could not roll . 
Hold tight , tight ! he shouted again , launching a kick at a snorting animal that reared back against Margaret's saddle . 
If she should lose her courage and fall now , under those hoofs He struck out again and again , kicking right and left with all his might . 
Already the negligent drivers had galloped into the cut , and their long quirts were whistling over the heads of the herd . 
Eric stepped close to Margaret's side and laid his hand on her saddle . 
You are not hurt ? he asked , hoarsely . 
As he raised his face in the soft starlight she saw that it was white and drawn and that his lips were working nervously . 
No , no , not at all . 
But you , you are suffering they struck you ! she cried in sharp alarm . 
He stepped back and drew his hand across his brow . 
No , it is not that , he spoke rapidly now , with his hands clenched at his side . 
But if they had hurt you , I would beat their brains out with my hands . 
I would kill them all . 
I was never afraid before . 
You are the only beautiful thing that has ever come close to me . 
You came like an angel out of the sky . 
You are like the music you sing , you are like the stars and the snow on the mountains where I played when I was a little boy . 
You are like all that I wanted once and never had , you are all that they have killed in me . 
I die for you tonight , tomorrow , for all eternity . 
I am not a coward I was afraid because I love you more than Christ who died for me , more than I am afraid of hell , or hope for heaven . 
I was never afraid before . 
His shoulders rose and fell perceptibly with his laboured breathing . 
The horse stood cowed with exhaustion and fear . 
I will lead yours , she is not safe . 
I will not frighten you again . 
His voice was still husky , but it was steady now . 
He took hold of the bit and tramped home in silence . 
When they reached the house , Eric stood stolidly by the pony's head until Wyllis came to lift his sister from the saddle . 
The horses were badly frightened , Wyllis . 
I think I was pretty thoroughly scared myself , she said as she took her brother's arm and went slowly up the hill toward the house . 
No , I'm not hurt , thanks to Eric . 
You must thank him for taking such good care of me . 
He's a mighty fine fellow . 
I'll tell you all about it in the morning , dear . 
I was pretty well shaken up and I'm going right to bed now . 
When she reached the low room in which she slept , she sank upon the bed in her riding dress , face downward . 
Oh , I pity him ! I pity him ! she murmured , with a long sigh of exhaustion . 
She must have slept a little . 
When she rose again , she took from her dress a letter that had been waiting for her at the village post office . 
Really , it takes the sparkle out of everything . 
i As You Like It i is of course the piece selected . 
I wish you had been here to take the part . 
Like most of the professionals , she exaggerates the emotional element and quite fails to do justice to Rosalind's facile wit and really brilliant mental qualities . 
Gerard will do Orlando , but rumor says he is i epris i of your sometime friend , Miss Meredith , and his memory is treacherous and his interest fitful . 
My new pictures arrived last week on the i Gascogne i . 
The Puvis de Chavannes is even more beautiful than I thought it in Paris . 
A pale dream maiden sits by a pale dream cow and a stream of anemic water flows at her feet . 
The Constant , you will remember , I got because you admired it . 
It is here in all its florid splendour , the whole dominated by a glowing sensuosity . 
But it is useless to deny that Constant irritates me . 
Though I cannot prove the charge against him , his brilliancy always makes me suspect him of cheapness . 
Here Margaret stopped and glanced at the remaining pages of this strange love letter . 
They seemed to be filled chiefly with discussions of pictures and books , and with a slow smile she laid them by . 
She rose and began undressing . 
Before she lay down she went to open the window . 
With her hand on the sill , she hesitated , feeling suddenly as though some danger were lurking outside , some inordinate desire waiting to spring upon her in the darkness . 
She stood there for a long time , gazing at the infinite sweep of the sky . 
Oh , it is all so little , so little there , she murmured . 
It was only the house dog roused from his sleep , but Margaret started violently and trembled so that she caught the foot of the bed for support . 
She fled to her bed with the words , I love you more than Christ who died for me ! ringing in her ears . 
III About midnight the dance at Lockhart's was at its height . 
Even the old men who had come to look on caught the spirit of revelry and stamped the floor with the vigor of old Silenus . 
To Margaret some of it sounded like Grieg's i Peer Gynt i music . 
She found something irresistibly infectious in the mirth of these people who were so seldom merry , and she felt almost one of them . 
Something seemed struggling for freedom in them tonight , something of the joyous childhood of the nations which exile had not killed . 
The girls were all boisterous with delight . 
Pleasure came to them but rarely , and when it came , they caught at it wildly and crushed its fluttering wings in their strong brown fingers . 
They had a hard life enough , most of them . 
But what matter ? Tonight there was hot liquor in the glass and hot blood in the heart tonight they danced . 
Tonight Eric Hermannson had renewed his youth . 
He was no longer the big , silent Norwegian who had sat at Margaret's feet and looked hopelessly into her eyes . 
Tonight he was a man , with a man's rights and a man's power . 
Tonight he was Siegfried indeed . 
His hair was yellow as the heavy wheat in the ripe of summer , and his eyes flashed like the blue water between the ice packs in the north seas . 
He was not afraid of Margaret tonight , and when he danced with her he held her firmly . 
She lost sight of the lights and the faces and the music was drowned by the beating of her own arteries . 
She saw only the blue eyes that flashed above her , felt only the warmth of that throbbing hand which held hers and which the blood of his heart fed . 
Dimly , as in a dream , she saw the drooping shoulders , high white forehead and tight , cynical mouth of the man she was to marry in December . 
For an hour she had been crowding back the memory of that face with all her strength . 
Let us stop , this is enough , she whispered . 
His only answer was to tighten the arm behind her . 
She sighed and let that masterful strength bear her where it would . 
She forgot that this man was little more than a savage , that they would part at dawn . 
The blood has no memories , no reflections , no regrets for the past , no consideration of the future . 
They stepped out into the cool , blue air of the night . 
Since the older folk had begun dancing , the young Norwegians had been slipping out in couples to climb the windmill tower into the cooler atmosphere , as is their custom . 
You like to go up ? asked Eric , close to her ear . 
She turned and looked at him with suppressed amusement . 
How high is it ? Forty feet , about . 
I not let you fall . 
There was a note of irresistible pleading in his voice , and she felt that he tremendously wished her to go . 
Well , why not ? This was a night of the unusual , when she was not herself at all , but was living an unreality . 
Tomorrow , yes , in a few hours , there would be the Vestibule Limited and the world . 
Well , if you'll take good care of me . 
I used to be able to climb , when I was a little girl . 
Once at the top and seated on the platform , they were silent . 
Margaret wondered if she would not hunger for that scene all her life , through all the routine of the days to come . 
The weary wind brought up to them the heavy odours of the cornfields . 
The music of the dance sounded faintly from below . 
Eric leaned on his elbow beside her , his legs swinging down on the ladder . 
How sweet the corn smells at night , said Margaret nervously . 
Yes , like the flowers that grow in paradise , I think . 
She was somewhat startled by this reply , and more startled when this taciturn man spoke again . 
You go away tomorrow ? Yes , we have stayed longer than we thought to now . 
You not come back any more ? No , I expect not . 
You see , it is a long trip halfway across the continent . 
You soon forget about this country , I guess . 
No , Eric , I will not forget . 
You have all been too kind to me for that . 
And you won't be sorry you danced this one night , will you ? I never be sorry . 
I have not been so happy before . 
I not be so happy again , ever . 
You will be happy many nights yet , I only this one . 
I will dream sometimes , maybe . 
The mighty resignation of his tone alarmed and touched her . 
It was as when some great animal composes itself for death , as when a great ship goes down at sea . 
She sighed , but did not answer him . 
He drew a little closer and looked into her eyes . 
You are not always happy , too ? he asked . 
No , not always , Eric not very often , I think . 
You have a trouble ? Yes , but I cannot put it into words . 
Perhaps if I could do that , I could cure it . 
He clasped his hands together over his heart , as children do when they pray , and said falteringly , If I own all the world , I give him you . 
Margaret felt a sudden moisture in her eyes , and laid her hand on his . 
Thank you , Eric I believe you would . 
But perhaps even then I should not be happy . 
Perhaps I have too much of it already . 
She did not take her hand away from him she did not dare . 
She sat still and waited for the traditions in which she had always believed to speak and save her . 
She belonged to an ultra refined civilization which tries to cheat nature with elegant sophistries . 
Come , Eric , let us go down the moon is up and the music has begun again , she said . 
He rose silently and stepped down upon the ladder , putting his arm about her to help her . 
That arm could have thrown Thor's hammer out in the cornfields yonder , yet it scarcely touched her , and his hand trembled as it had done in the dance . 
His face was level with hers now and the moonlight fell sharply upon it . 
All her life she had searched the faces of men for the look that lay in his eyes . 
This was Love's self , in a moment it would die . 
Stung by the agonized appeal that emanated from the man's whole being , she leaned forward and laid her lips on his . 
Once , twice and again she heard the deep respirations rattle in his throat while she held them there , and the riotous force under her head became an engulfing weakness . 
He drew her up to him until he felt all the resistance go out of her body , until every nerve relaxed and yielded . 
When she drew her face back from his , it was white with fear . 
Let us go down , oh , my God ! let us go down ! she muttered . 
And the drunken stars up yonder seemed reeling to some appointed doom as she clung to the rounds of the ladder . 
All that she was to know of love she had left upon his lips . 
The devil is loose again , whispered Olaf Oleson , as he saw Eric dancing a moment later , his eyes blazing . 
But Eric was thinking with an almost savage exultation of the time when he should pay for this . 
Ah , there would be no quailing then ! if ever a soul went fearlessly , proudly down to the gates infernal , his should go . 
For a moment he fancied he was there already , treading down the tempest of flame , hugging the fiery hurricane to his breast . 
It seemed but a little while till dawn . 
The carriage was brought to the door and Wyllis Elliot and his sister said goodbye . 
In a moment the carriage was gone . 
Eric changed his coat and plunged his head into the water tank and went to the barn to hook up his team . 
As he led his horses to the door , a shadow fell across his path , and he saw Skinner rising in his stirrups . 
His rugged face was pale and worn with looking after his wayward flock , with dragging men into the way of salvation . 
There was a dance here last night ? he asked , sternly . 
A dance ? Oh , yes , a dance , replied Eric , cheerfully . 
Certainly you did not dance , Eric ? Yes , I danced . 
I danced all the time . 
The minister's shoulders drooped , and an expression of profound discouragement settled over his haggard face . 
There was almost anguish in the yearning he felt for this soul . 
Eric , I didn't look for this from you . 
I thought God had set his mark on you if he ever had on any man . 
And it is for things like this that you set your soul back a thousand years from God . 
foolish and perverse generation ! Eric drew himself up to his full height and looked off to where the new day was gilding the corn tassels and flooding the uplands with light . 
The Enchanted Bluff We had our swim before sundown , and while we were cooking our supper the oblique rays of light made a dazzling glare on the white sand about us . 
The river was brown and sluggish , like any other of the half dozen streams that water the Nebraska corn lands . 
On one shore was an irregular line of bald clay bluffs where a few scrub oaks with thick trunks and flat , twisted tops threw light shadows on the long grass . 
The channel was never the same for two successive seasons . 
When the water fell low in midsummer , new sand bars were thus exposed to dry and whiten in the August sun . 
We had been careful not to mar the freshness of the place , although we often swam to it on summer evenings and lay on the sand to rest . 
This was our last watch fire of the year , and there were reasons why I should remember it better than any of the others . 
There were the two Hassler boys , Fritz and Otto , sons of the little German tailor . 
They were the youngest of us ragged boys of ten and twelve , with sunburned hair , weather stained faces , and pale blue eyes . 
Tip worked hard in his father's grocery store every afternoon , and swept it out before school in the morning . 
Even his recreations were laborious . 
He collected cigarette cards and tin tobacco tags indefatigably , and would sit for hours humped up over a snarling little scroll saw which he kept in his attic . 
His father had bought these dull things from a Baptist missionary who peddled them , and Tip seemed to derive great satisfaction from their remote origin . 
The tall boy was Arthur Adams . 
He had fine hazel eves that were almost too reflective and sympathetic for a boy , and such a pleasant voice that we all loved to hear him read aloud . 
Even when he had to read poetry aloud at school , no one ever thought of laughing . 
To be sure , he was not at school very much of the time . 
He was seventeen and should have finished the High School the year before , but he was always off somewhere with his gun . 
We would have followed Arthur anywhere , and I am bound to say that he led us into no worse places than the cattail marshes and the stubble fields . 
These , then , were the boys who camped with me that summer night upon the sand bar . 
After we finished our supper we beat the willow thicket for driftwood . 
By the time we had collected enough , night had fallen , and the pungent , weedy smell from the shore increased with the coolness . 
We threw ourselves down about the fire and made another futile effort to show Percy Pound the Little Dipper . 
We had tried it often before , but he could never be got past the big one . 
You see those three big stars just below the handle , with the bright one in the middle ? said Otto Hassler that's Orion's belt , and the bright one is the clasp . 
I crawled behind Otto's shoulder and sighted up his arm to the star that seemed perched upon the tip of his steady forefinger . 
The Hassler boys did seine fishing at night , and they knew a good many stars . 
Percy gave up the Little Dipper and lay back on the sand , his hands clasped under his head . 
I can see the North Star , he announced , contentedly , pointing toward it with his big toe . 
Anyone might get lost and need to know that . 
We all looked up at it . 
How do you suppose Columbus felt when his compass didn't point north any more ? Tip asked . 
My father says that there was another North Star once , and that maybe this one won't last always . 
I wonder what would happen to us down here if anything went wrong with it ? Arthur chuckled . 
I wouldn't worry , Ott . 
Nothing's apt to happen to it in your time . 
Look at the Milky Way ! There must be lots of good dead Indians . 
We lay back and looked , meditating , at the dark cover of the world . 
The gurgle of the water had become heavier . 
Our water had always these two moods the one of sunny complaisance , the other of inconsolable , passionate regret . 
Queer how the stars are all in sort of diagrams , remarked Otto . 
You could do most any proposition in geometry with 'em . 
They always look as if they meant something . 
Some folks say everybody's fortune is all written out in the stars , don't they ? They believe so in the old country , Fritz affirmed . 
But Arthur only laughed at him . 
You're thinking of Napoleon , Fritzey . 
He had a star that went out when he began to lose battles . 
I guess the stars don't keep any close tally on Sandtown folks . 
It came up like a galleon in full sail an enormous , barbaric thing , red as an angry heathen god . 
When the moon came up red like that , the Aztecs used to sacrifice their prisoners on the temple top , Percy announced . 
You got that out of i Golden Days i . 
Do you believe that , Arthur ? I appealed . 
Arthur answered , quite seriously Like as not . 
The moon was one of their gods . 
When my father was in Mexico City he saw the stone where they used to sacrifice their prisoners . 
As we dropped down by the fire again some one asked whether the Mound Builders were older than the Aztecs . 
When we once got upon the Mound Builders we never willingly got away from them , and we were still conjecturing when we heard a loud splash in the water . 
Must have been a big cat jumping , said Fritz . 
They must see bugs in the dark . 
Suppose there ever i was i any gold hid away in this old river ? Fritz asked . 
He lay like a little brown Indian , close to the fire , his chin on his hand and his bare feet in the air . 
His brother laughed at him , but Arthur took his suggestion seriously . 
Some of the Spaniards thought there was gold up here somewhere . 
Seven cities chuck full of gold , they had it , and Coronado and his men came up to hunt it . 
The Spaniards were all over this country once . 
Was that before the Mormons went through ? We all laughed at this . 
Before the Pilgrim Fathers , Perce . 
Maybe they came along this very river . 
They always followed the watercourses . 
I wonder where this river really does begin ? Tip mused . 
That was an old and a favorite mystery which the map did not clearly explain . 
On the map the little black line stopped somewhere in western Kansas but since rivers generally rose in mountains , it was only reasonable to suppose that ours came from the Rockies . 
Now they took up their old argument . 
If us boys had grit enough to try it , it wouldn't take no time to get to Kansas City and St . 
We began to talk about the places we wanted to go to . 
The Hassler boys wanted to see the stockyards in Kansas City , and Percy wanted to see a big store in Chicago . 
Arthur was interlocutor and did not betray himself . 
Now it's your turn , Tip . 
Tip rolled over on his elbow and poked the fire , and his eyes looked shyly out of his queer , tight little face . 
My place is awful far away . 
My Uncle Bill told me about it . 
Tip's Uncle Bill was a wanderer , bitten with mining fever , who had drifted into Sandtown with a broken arm , and when it was well had drifted out again . 
Where is it ? Aw , it's down in New Mexico somewheres . 
There aren't no railroads or anything . 
You have to go on mules , and you run out of water before you get there and have to drink canned tomatoes . 
Well , go on , kid . 
What's it like when you do get there ? Tip sat up and excitedly began his story . 
There's a big red rock there that goes right up out of the sand for about nine hundred feet . 
The country's flat all around it , and this here rock goes up all by itself , like a monument . 
They call it the Enchanted Bluff down there , because no white man has ever been on top of it . 
The sides are smooth rock , and straight up , like a wall . 
The Indians say that hundreds of years ago , before the Spaniards came , there was a village away up there in the air . 
They kept a big supply of water and dried meat up there , and never went down except to hunt . 
They were a peaceful tribe that made cloth and pottery , and they went up there to get out of the wars . 
You see , they could pick off any war party that tried to get up their little steps . 
The Indians say they were a handsome people , and they had some sort of queer religion . 
Uncle Bill thinks they were Cliff Dwellers who had got into trouble and left home . 
They weren't fighters , anyhow . 
Then the war party went on south and left the village to get down the best way they could . 
Of course they never got down . 
We exclaimed at this dolorous legend and sat up . 
There couldn't have been many people up there , Percy demurred . 
How big is the top , Tip ? Oh , pretty big . 
Big enough so that the rock doesn't look nearly as tall as it is . 
The top's bigger than the base . 
The bluff is sort of worn away for several hundred feet up . 
That's one reason it's so hard to climb . 
I asked how the Indians got up , in the first place . 
Nobody knows how they got up or when . 
A hunting party came along once and saw that there was a town up there , and that was all . 
Otto rubbed his chin and looked thoughtful . 
Of course there must be some way to get up there . 
Couldn't people get a rope over someway and pull a ladder up ? Tip's little eyes were shining with excitement . 
Me and Uncle Bill talked it over . 
I'm going to climb that there bluff , and I've got it all planned out . 
Fritz asked what he expected to find when he got up there . 
Bones , maybe , or the ruins of their town , or pottery , or some of their idols . 
There might be 'most anything up there . 
Anyhow , I want to see . 
Sure nobody else has been up there , Tip ? Arthur asked . 
Hardly anybody ever goes down there . 
Some hunters tried to cut steps in the rock once , but they didn't get higher than a man can reach . 
The Bluff's all red granite , and Uncle Bill thinks it's a boulder the glaciers left . 
It's a queer place , anyhow . 
Nothing but cactus and desert for hundreds of miles , and yet right under the Bluff there's good water and plenty of grass . 
That's why the bison used to go down there . 
We ran to the edge of the island , hoping we might see her alight , but she wavered southward along the rivercourse until we lost her . 
Several of us pretended to doze , but I fancy we were really thinking about Tip's Bluff and the extinct people . 
Over in the wood the ring doves were calling mournfully to one another , and once we heard a dog bark , far away . 
Somebody getting into old Tommy's melon patch , Fritz murmured sleepily , but nobody answered him . 
By and by Percy spoke out of the shadows . 
Say , Tip , when you go down there will you take me with you ? Maybe . 
Somewhat reassured , I dropped off to sleep . 
I sat up in my damp clothes and looked at the other boys , who lay tumbled in uneasy attitudes about the dead fire . 
It was still dark , but the sky was blue with the last wonderful azure of night . 
The stars glistened like crystal globes , and trembled as if they shone through a depth of clear water . 
Even as I watched , they began to pale and the sky brightened . 
Day came suddenly , almost instantaneously . 
I turned for another look at the blue night , and it was gone . 
Everywhere the birds began to call , and all manner of little insects began to chirp and hop about in the willows . 
A breeze sprang up from the west and brought the heavy smell of ripened corn . 
The boys rolled over and shook themselves . 
We stripped and plunged into the river just as the sun came up over the windy bluffs . 
When I came home to Sandtown at Christmas time , we skated out to our island and talked over the whole project of the Enchanted Bluff , renewing our resolution to find it . 
Although that was twenty years ago , none of us have ever climbed the Enchanted Bluff . 
Percy Pound is a stockbroker in Kansas City and will go nowhere that his red touring car cannot carry him . 
Otto Hassler went on the railroad and lost his foot braking after which he and Fritz succeeded their father as the town tailors . 
Arthur sat about the sleepy little town all his life he died before he was twenty five . 
He was very untidy and his hand was not steady , but when he rose , unabashed , to greet me , his eyes were as clear and warm as ever . 
He joked about Tip Smith's Bluff , and declared he was going down there just as soon as the weather got cooler he thought the Grand Canyon might be worth while , too . 
I was perfectly sure when I left him that he would never get beyond the high plank fence and the comfortable shade of the cottonwood . 
And , indeed , it was under that very tree that he died one summer morning . 
Tip Smith still talks about going to New Mexico . 
He married a slatternly , unthrifty country girl , has been much tied to a perambulator , and has grown stooped and grey from irregular meals and broken sleep . 
But the worst of his difficulties are now over , and he has , as he says , come into easy water . 
When I was last in Sandtown I walked home with him late one moonlight night , after he had balanced his cash and shut up his store . 
We took the long way around and sat down on the schoolhouse steps , and between us we quite revived the romance of the lone red rock and the extinct people . 
Tip insists that he still means to go down there , but he thinks now he will wait until his boy Bert is old enough to go with him . 
Bert has been let into the story , and thinks of nothing but the Enchanted Bluff . 
There was a look of relaxation and of great passivity about his broad shoulders , which seemed almost too heavy until he stood up and squared them . 
He wore a pale flannel shirt and a blue silk necktie with loose ends . 
His trousers were wide and belted at the waist , and his short sack coat hung open . 
His heavy shoes had seen good service . 
His reddish brown hair , like his clothes , had a foreign cut . 
He had deep set , dark blue eyes under heavy reddish eyebrows . 
His face was kept clean only by close shaving , and even the sharpest razor left a glint of yellow in the smooth brown of his skin . 
His teeth and the palms of his hands were very white . 
He told himself , apparently , that there was no point in getting excited and he seemed a master hand at taking his ease when he could . 
Neither the sharp whistle of the locomotive nor the brakeman's call disturbed him . 
The baggage was already unloaded , and the stranger presented a check for a battered sole leather steamer trunk . 
Can you keep it here for a day or two ? he asked the agent . 
I may send for it , and I may not . 
Depends on whether you like the country , I suppose ? demanded the agent in a challenging tone . 
The agent shrugged his shoulders , looked scornfully at the small trunk , which was marked N. E. , and handed out a claim check without further comment . 
The stranger watched him as he caught one end of the trunk and dragged it into the express room . 
The agent's manner seemed to remind him of something amusing . 
Doesn't seem to be a very big place , he remarked , looking about . 
It's big enough for us , snapped the agent , as he banged the trunk into a corner . 
That remark , apparently , was what Nils Ericson had wanted . 
He chuckled quietly as he took a leather strap from his pocket and swung his valise around his shoulder . 
Then he settled his Panama securely on his head , turned up his trousers , tucked the flute case under his arm , and started off across the fields . 
When one of the farmers pulled up and offered to give him a lift , he clambered in willingly . 
The driver was a thin , grizzled old man with a long lean neck and a foolish sort of beard , like a goat's . 
How fur ye goin' ? he asked , as he clucked to his horses and started off . 
Do you go by the Ericson place ? Which Ericson ? The old man drew in his reins as if he expected to stop again . 
Oh , the Old Lady Ericson's ! He turned and looked at Nils . 
La , me ! If you're goin' out there you might a' rid out in the automobile . 
That's a pity , now . 
The Old Lady Ericson was in town with her auto . 
You might 'a' heard it snortin' anywhere about the post office er the butcher shop . 
Has she a motor ? asked the stranger absently . 
'Deed an' she has ! She runs into town every night about this time for her mail and meat for supper . 
Some folks say she's afraid her auto won't get exercise enough , but I say that's jealousy . 
Aren't there any other motors about here ? Oh , yes ! we have fourteen in all . 
But nobody else gets around like the Old Lady Ericson . 
She's out , rain er shine , over the whole county , chargin' into town and out amongst her farms , an' up to her sons' places . 
Sure you ain't goin' to the wrong place ? He craned his neck and looked at Nils' flute case with eager curiosity . 
The old woman ain't got any piany that I knows on . 
Olaf , he has a grand . 
His wife's musical took lessons in Chicago . 
I'm going up there tomorrow , said Nils imperturbably . 
He saw that the driver took him for a piano tuner . 
Oh , I see ! The old man screwed up his eyes mysteriously . 
He was a little dashed by the stranger's noncommunicativeness , but he soon broke out again . 
I'm one o' Miss Ericson's tenants . 
Look after one of her places . 
I did own the place myself once , but I lost it a while back , in the bad years just after the World's Fair . 
Just as well , too , I say . 
Lets you out o' payin' taxes . 
The Ericsons do own most of the county now . 
I remember the old preacher's favorite text used to be , 'To them that hath shall be given . 
They've spread something wonderful run over this here country like bindweed . 
But I ain't one that begretches it to 'em . 
Folks is entitled to what they kin git and they're hustlers . 
Olaf , he's in the Legislature now , and a likely man fur Congress . 
Listen , if that ain't the old woman comin' now . 
Want I should stop her ? Nils shook his head . 
He heard the deep chug chug of a motor vibrating steadily in the clear twilight behind them . 
The motor was running at a hot , even speed , and passed without turning an inch from its course . 
The driver was a stalwart woman who sat at ease in the front seat and drove her car bareheaded . 
She left a cloud of dust and a trail of gasoline behind her . 
Her tenant threw back his head and sneezed . 
Whew ! I sometimes say I'd as lief be i before i Mrs. Ericson as behind her . 
She does beat all ! Nearly seventy , and never lets another soul touch that car . 
Puts it into commission herself every morning , and keeps it tuned up by the hitch bar all day . 
I never stop work for a drink o' water that I don't hear her a churnin' up the road . 
I reckon her darter in laws never sets down easy nowadays . 
Never know when she'll pop in . 
Mis' Otto , she says to me 'We're so afraid that thing'll blow up and do Ma some injury yet , she's so turrible venturesome . 
Says I 'I wouldn't stew , Mis' Otto the old lady'll drive that car to the funeral of every darter in law she's got . 
That was after the old woman had jumped a turrible bad culvert . 
The stranger heard vaguely what the old man was saying . 
Just now he was experiencing something very much like homesickness , and he was wondering what had brought it about . 
He squared his shoulders with a comfortable sense of strength . 
The wagon , as it jolted westward , climbed a pretty steady up grade . 
The country , receding from the rough river valley , swelled more and more gently , as if it had been smoothed out by the wind . 
On one of the last of the rugged ridges , at the end of a branch road , stood a grim square house with a tin roof and double porches . 
Behind the house stretched a row of broken , wind racked poplars , and down the hill slope to the left straggled the sheds and stables . 
The old man stopped his horses where the Ericsons' road branched across a dry sand creek that wound about the foot of the hill . 
That's the old lady's place . 
Want I should drive in ? No , thank you . 
His passenger stepped down over the front wheel , and the old man drove on reluctantly , looking back as if he would like to see how the stranger would be received . 
As Nils was crossing the dry creek he heard the restive tramp of a horse coming toward him down the hill . 
Instantly he flashed out of the road and stood behind a thicket of wild plum bushes that grew in the sandy bed . 
Peering through the dusk , be saw a light horse , under tight rein , descending the hill at a sharp walk . 
The rider was a slender woman barely visible against the dark hillside wearing an old fashioned derby hat and a long riding skirt . 
She sat lightly in the saddle , with her chin high , and seemed to be looking into the distance . 
As she passed the plum thicket her horse snuffed the air and shied . 
She struck him , pulling him in sharply , with an angry exclamation , i Blazne ! i in Bohemian . 
This horse and rider , with their free , rhythmical gallop , were the only moving things to be seen on the face of the flat country . 
They seemed , in the last sad light of evening , not to be there accidentally , but as an inevitable detail of the landscape . 
Nils watched them until they had shrunk to a mere moving speck against the sky , then he crossed the sand creek and climbed the hill . 
When he reached the gate the front of the house was dark , but a light was shining from the side windows . 
The pigs were squealing in the hog corral , and Nils could see a tall boy , who carried two big wooden buckets , moving about among them . 
Halfway between the barn and the house , the windmill wheezed lazily . 
Following the path that ran around to the back porch , Nils stopped to look through the screen door into the lamplit kitchen . 
The kitchen was the largest room in the house Nils remembered that his older brothers used to give dances there when he was a boy . 
Beside the stove stood a little girl with two light yellow braids and a broad , flushed face , peering anxiously into a frying pan . 
In the dining room beyond , a large , broad shouldered woman was moving about the table . 
She walked with an active , springy step . 
Her face was heavy and florid , almost without wrinkles , and her hair was black at seventy . 
Nils felt proud of her as he watched her deliberate activity never a momentary hesitation , or a movement that did not tell . 
He waited until she came out into the kitchen and , brushing the child aside , took her place at the stove . 
Then he tapped on the screen door and entered . 
It's nobody but Nils , Mother . 
I expect you weren't looking for me . 
Mrs. Ericson turned away from the stove and stood staring at him . 
Bring the lamp , Hilda , and let me look . 
Nils laughed and unslung his valise . 
What's the matter , Mother ? Don't you know me ? Mrs. Ericson put down the lamp . 
You don't look very different , anyway . 
Don't you wear glasses yet ? Only to read by . 
Where's your trunk , Nils ? Oh , I left that in town . 
I thought it might not be convenient for you to have company so near threshing time . 
Don't be foolish , Nils . 
Mrs. Ericson turned back to the stove . 
I hitched the wheat land onto the next farm and have a tenant . 
Hilda , take some hot water up to the company room , and go call little Eric . 
Who's the youngster ? Nils asked , dropping down on the bench behind the kitchen stove . 
One of your Cousin Henrik's . 
How long has Cousin Henrik been dead ? Six years . 
One stays with Peter and one with Anders . 
There was a clatter of pails on the porch , and a tall , lanky boy peered wonderingly in through the screen door . 
He had a fair , gentle face and big grey eyes , and wisps of soft yellow hair hung down under his cap . 
Nils sprang up and pulled him into the kitchen , hugging him and slapping him on the shoulders . 
I guess it's Nils , he said shyly . 
You're a good guesser , laughed Nils giving the lad's hand a swing . 
To himself he was thinking That's why the little girl looked so friendly . 
He's taught her to like me . 
He was only six when I went away , and he's remembered for twelve years . 
Eric stood fumbling with his cap and smiling . 
You look just like I thought you would , he ventured . 
Go wash your hands , Eric , called Mrs. Ericson . 
I've got cob corn for supper , Nils . 
You used to like it . 
I guess you don't get much of that in the old country . 
Here's Hilda she'll take you up to your room . 
You'll want to get the dust off you before you eat . 
Mrs. Ericson went into the dining room to lay another plate , and the little girl came up and nodded to Nils as if to let him know that his room was ready . 
He put out his hand and she took it , with a startled glance up at his face . 
Little Eric dropped his towel , threw an arm about Nils and one about Hilda , gave them a clumsy squeeze , and then stumbled out to the porch . 
During supper Nils heard exactly how much land each of his eight grown brothers farmed , how their crops were coming on , and how much livestock they were feeding . 
His mother watched him narrowly as she talked . 
You've got better looking , Nils , she remarked abruptly , whereupon he grinned and the children giggled . 
Eric , although he was eighteen and as tall as Nils , was always accounted a child , being the last of so many sons . 
His face seemed childlike , too , Nils thought , and he had the open , wandering eves of a little boy . 
All the others had been men at his age . 
After supper Nils went out to the front porch and sat down on the step to smoke a pipe . 
Mrs. Ericson drew a rocking chair up near him and began to knit busily . 
It was one of the few Old World customs she had kept up , for she could not bear to sit with idle hands . 
Where's little Eric , Mother ? He's helping Hilda with the dishes . 
He does it of his own will I don't like a boy to be too handy about the house . 
He seems like a nice kid . 
Nils smiled a little in the dark . 
It was just as well to shift the line of conversation . 
What are you knitting there , Mother ? Baby stockings . 
The boys keep me busy . 
Mrs. Ericson chuckled and clicked her needles . 
How many grandchildren have you ? Only thirty one now . 
They were sickly , like their mother . 
I supposed he had a second crop by this time ! His second wife has no children . 
She tears about on horseback all the time . 
But she'll get caught up with , yet . 
She sets herself very high , though nobody knows what for . 
They were low enough Bohemians she came of . 
I never thought much of Bohemians always drinking . 
Nils puffed away at his pipe in silence , and Mrs. Ericson knitted on . 
In a few moments she added grimly She was down here tonight , just before you came . 
She'd like to quarrel with me and come between me and Olaf , but I don't give her the chance . 
I suppose you'll be bringing a wife home some day . 
I've never thought much about it . 
Well , perhaps it's best as it is , suggested Mrs. Ericson hopefully . 
You'd never be contented tied down to the land . 
There was roving blood in your father's family , and it's come out in you . 
I expect your own way of life suits you best . 
Mrs. Ericson had dropped into a blandly agreeable tone which Nils well remembered . 
It seemed to amuse him a good deal and his white teeth flashed behind his pipe . 
His mother's strategies had always diverted him , even when he was a boy they were so flimsy and patent , so illy proportioned to her vigor and force . 
They've been waiting to see which way I'd jump , he reflected . 
He felt that Mrs. Ericson was pondering his case deeply as she sat clicking her needles . 
I don't suppose you've ever got used to steady work , she went on presently . 
Men ain't apt to if they roam around too long . 
It's a pity you didn't come back the year after the World's Fair . 
Your father picked up a good bit of land cheap then , in the hard times , and I expect maybe he'd have give you a farm . 
it's too bad you put off comin' back so long , for I always thought he meant to do something by you . 
Nils laughed and shook the ashes out of his pipe . 
I'd have missed a lot if I had come back then . 
But I'm sorry I didn't get back to see father . 
Well , I suppose we have to miss things at one end or the other . 
Perhaps you are as well satisfied with your own doings , now , as you'd have been with a farm , said Mrs. Ericson reassuringly . 
Land's a good thing to have , Nils commented , as he lit another match and sheltered it with his hand . 
His mother looked sharply at his face until the match burned out . 
Only when you stay on it ! she hastened to say . 
Eric came round the house by the path just then , and Nils rose , with a yawn . 
Mother , if you don't mind , Eric and I will take a little tramp before bedtime . 
It will make me sleep . 
Very well only don't stay long . 
I'll sit up and wait for you . 
I like to lock up myself . 
Nils put his hand on Eric's shoulder , and the two tramped down the hill and across the sand creek into the dusty highroad beyond . 
They swung along at an even gait , Nils puffing at his pipe . 
There was no moon , and the white road and the wide fields lay faint in the starlight . 
Over everything was darkness and thick silence , and the smell of dust and sunflowers . 
The brothers followed the road for a mile or more without finding a place to sit down . 
Finally , Nils perched on a stile over the wire fence , and Eric sat on the lower step . 
I began to think you never would come back , Nils , said the boy softly . 
Didn't I promise you I would ? Yes but people don't bother about promises they make to babies . 
Did you really know you were going away for good when you went to Chicago with the cattle that time ? I thought it very likely , if I could make my way . 
I don't see how you did it , Nils . 
Eric rubbed his shoulder against his brother's knee . 
The hard thing was leaving home you and father . 
It was easy enough , once I got beyond Chicago . 
Of course I got awful homesick used to cry myself to sleep . 
But I'd burned my bridges . 
You had always wanted to go , hadn't you ? Always . 
Do you still sleep in our little room ? Is that cottonwood still by the window ? Eric nodded eagerly and smiled up at his brother in the grey darkness . 
You remember how we always said the leaves were whispering when they rustled at night ? Well , they always whispered to me about the sea . 
Sometimes they said names out of the geography books . 
In a high wind they had a desperate sound , like someone trying to tear loose . 
How funny , Nils , said Eric dreamily , resting his chin on his hand . 
That tree still talks like that , and 'most always it talks to me about you . 
They sat a while longer , watching the stars . 
At last Eric whispered anxiously Hadn't we better go back now ? Mother will get tired waiting for us . 
They rose and took a short cut home , through the pasture . 
II The next morning Nils woke with the first flood of light that came with dawn . 
The white plastered walls of his room reflected the glare that shone through the thin window shades , and he found it impossible to sleep . 
He dressed hurriedly and slipped down the hall and up the back stairs to the half story room which be used to share with his little brother . 
Eric , in a skimpy nightshirt , was sitting on the edge of the bed , rubbing his eyes , his pale yellow hair standing up in tufts all over his head . 
When he saw Nils , he murmured something confusedly and hustled his long legs into his trousers . 
I didn't expect you'd be up so early , Nils , he said , as his head emerged from his blue shirt . 
Oh , you thought I was a dude , did you ? Nils gave him a playful tap which bent the tall boy up like a clasp knife . 
See here I must teach you to box . 
Nils thrust his hands into his pockets and walked about . 
You haven't changed things much up here . 
Got most of my old traps , haven't you ? He took down a bent , withered piece of sapling that hung over the dresser . 
If this isn't the stick Lou Sandberg killed himself with ! The boy looked up from his shoe lacing . 
Yes you never used to let me play with that . 
Just how did he do it , Nils ? You were with father when he found Lou , weren't you ? Yes . 
Father was going off to preach somewhere , and , as we drove along , Lou's place looked sort of forlorn , and we thought we'd stop and cheer him up . 
When we found him father said he'd been dead a couple days . 
What made him kill himself such a silly way ? The simplicity of the boy's question set Nils laughing . 
He clapped little Eric on the shoulder . 
Oh , scat ! He could have had lots of fun with other people's hogs . 
He was a chump , Lou Sandberg . 
While he was parting his wet hair at the kitchen looking glass , a heavy tread sounded on the stairs . 
The boy dropped his comb . 
We must have talked too long . 
He hurried out to the shed , slipped on his overalls , and disappeared with the milking pails . 
Mrs. Ericson came in , wearing a clean white apron , her black hair shining from the application of a wet brush . 
Can't I make the fire for you ? No , thank you , Nils . 
It's no trouble to make a cob fire , and I like to manage the kitchen stove myself Mrs. Ericson paused with a shovel full of ashes in her hand . 
I expect you will be wanting to see your brothers as soon as possible . 
I'll take you up to Anders' place this morning . 
He's threshing , and most of our boys are over there . 
Will Olaf be there ? Mrs. Ericson went on taking out the ashes , and spoke between shovels . 
No Olaf's wheat is all in , put away in his new barn . 
He got six thousand bushel this year . 
He's going to town today to get men to finish roofing his barn . 
So Olaf is building a new barn ? Nils asked absently . 
Biggest one in the county , and almost done . 
You'll likely be here for the barn raising . 
He's going to have a supper and a dance as soon as everybody's done threshing . 
Says it keeps the voters in good humour . 
I tell him that's all nonsense but Olaf has a head for politics . 
Does Olaf farm all Cousin Henrik's land ? Mrs. Ericson frowned as she blew into the faint smoke curling up about the cobs . 
Yes he holds it in trust for the children , Hilda and her brothers . 
He keeps strict account of everything he raises on it , and puts the proceeds out at compound interest for them . 
Nils smiled as he watched the little flames shoot up . 
The door of the back stairs opened , and Hilda emerged , her arms behind her , buttoning up her long gingham apron as she came . 
He nodded to her gaily , and she twinkled at him out of her little blue eyes , set far apart over her wide cheekbones . 
As her hand went round and round he touched the ring with the tip of his finger , smiling . 
Hilda glanced toward the shed door through which Mrs. Ericson had disappeared . 
My Cousin Clara gave me that , she whispered bashfully . 
III Mrs. Olaf Ericson Clara Vavrika , as many people still called her was moving restlessly about her big bare house that morning . 
Her husband had left for the county town before his wife was out of bed her lateness in rising was one of the many things the Ericson family had against her . 
Clara seldom came downstairs before eight o'clock , and this morning she was even later , for she had dressed with unusual care . 
She put on , however , only a tightfitting black dress , which people thereabouts thought very plain . 
Her hair , parted evenly above her low forehead , was so black that there were distinctly blue lights in it . 
Her black eyebrows were delicate half moons and her lashes were long and heavy . 
Her eyes slanted a little , as if she had a strain of Tartar or gypsy blood , and were sometimes full of fiery determination and sometimes dull and opaque . 
Her expression was never altogether amiable was often , indeed , distinctly sullen , or , when she was animated , sarcastic . 
The entire management of Mrs. Olaf's household devolved upon her aunt , Johanna Vavrika , a superstitious , doting woman of fifty . 
When Clara was a little girl her mother died , and Johanna's life had been spent in ungrudging service to her niece . 
Johanna Vavrika had been deeply scarred by smallpox in the old country . 
She was short and fat , homely and jolly and sentimental . 
She was so broad , and took such short steps when she walked , that her brother , Joe Vavrika , always called her his duck . 
She adored her niece because of her talent , because of her good looks and masterful ways , but most of all because of her selfishness . 
Clara's marriage with Olaf Ericson was Johanna's particular triumph . 
Old Mrs. Ericson frequently said that her daughter in law would not know what day of the week it was if Johanna did not tell her every morning . 
Mrs. Ericson despised and pitied Johanna , but did not wholly dislike her . 
The one thing she hated in her daughter in law above everything else was the way in which Clara could come it over people . 
Suppose Johanna Vavrika died or got sick ? the old lady used to say to Olaf . 
Your wife wouldn't know where to look for her own dish cloth . 
Olaf only shrugged his shoulders . 
The fact remained that Johanna did not die , and , although Mrs. Ericson often told her she was looking poorly , she was never ill . 
She seldom left the house , and she slept in a little room off the kitchen . 
No Ericson , by night or day , could come prying about there to find fault without her knowing it . 
Her one weakness was that she was an incurable talker , and she sometimes made trouble without meaning to . 
This morning Clara was tying a wine coloured ribbon about her throat when Johanna appeared with her coffee . 
After putting the tray on a sewing table , she began to make Clara's bed , chattering the while in Bohemian . 
Well , Olaf got off early , and the girls are baking . 
I'm going down presently to make some poppy seed bread for Olaf . 
He asked for prune preserves at breakfast , and I told him I was out of them , and to bring some prunes and honey and cloves from town . 
Ugh ! I don't see how men can eat so much sweet stuff . 
In the morning , too ! Her aunt chuckled knowingly . 
Bait a bear with honey , as we say in the old country . 
Was he cross ? her niece asked indifferently . 
Olaf ? Oh , no ! He was in fine spirits . 
He's never cross if you know how to take him . 
I never knew a man to make so little fuss about bills . 
I gave him a list of things to get a yard long , and he didn't say a word just folded it up and put it in his pocket . 
I can well believe he didn't say a word , Clara remarked with a shrug . 
Some day he'll forget how to talk . 
Oh , but they say he's a grand speaker in the Legislature . 
He knows when to keep quiet . 
That's why he's got such influence in politics . 
The people have confidence in him . 
Johanna beat up a pillow and held it under her fat chin while she slipped on the case . 
Maybe we could make people believe we were wise , Aunty , if we held our tongues . 
Why did you tell Mrs. Ericson that Norman threw me again last Saturday and turned my foot ? She's been talking to Olaf . 
Johanna fell into great confusion . 
Oh , but , my precious , the old lady asked for you , and she's always so angry if I can't give an excuse . 
Anyhow , she needn't talk she's always tearing up something with that motor of hers . 
When her aunt clattered down to the kitchen , Clara went to dust the parlour . 
Since there was not much there to dust , this did not take very long . 
Olaf had built the house new for her before their marriage , but her interest in furnishing it had been short lived . 
It went , indeed , little beyond a bathtub and her piano . 
They had disagreed about almost even , other article of furniture , and Clara had said she would rather have her house empty than full of things she didn't want . 
The house was set in a hillside , and the west windows of the parlour looked out above the kitchen yard thirty feet below . 
The east windows opened directly into the front yard . 
At one of the latter , Clara , while she was dusting , heard a low whistle . 
She did not turn at once , but listened intently as she drew her cloth slowly along the round of a chair . 
Yes , there it was I dreamt that I dwelt in ma a arble halls . 
She turned and saw Nils Ericson laughing in the sunlight , his hat in his hand , just outside the window . 
As she crossed the room he leaned against the wire screen . 
Aren't you at all surprised to see me , Clara Vavrika ? No I was expecting to see you . 
Mother Ericson telephoned Olaf last night that you were here . 
Nils squinted and gave a long whistle . 
Telephoned ? That must have been while Eric and I were out walking . 
Isn't she enterprising ? Lift this screen , won't you ? Clara lifted the screen , and Nils swung his leg across the window sill . 
As he stepped into the room she said You didn't think you were going to get ahead of your mother , did you ? He threw his hat on the piano . 
Oh , I do sometimes . 
You see , I'm ahead of her now . 
I'm supposed to be in Anders' wheat field . 
But , as we were leaving , Mother ran her car into a soft place beside the road and sank up to the hubs . 
While they were going for the horses to pull her out , I cut away behind the stacks and escaped . 
Clara's dull eyes lit up as she looked at him admiringly . 
You've got them guessing already . 
He sat out on the porch in the dark like a graven image . 
It had been one of his talkative days , too . 
They both laughed , easily and lightly , like people who have laughed a great deal together but they remained standing . 
Anders and Otto and Peter looked as if they had seen ghosts , too , over in the threshing field . 
What's the matter with them all ? Clara gave him a quick , searching look . 
Well , for one thing , they've always been afraid you have the other will . 
The other will ? Yes . 
They knew your father made another , but they never knew what he did with it . 
They almost tore the old house to pieces looking for it . 
They always suspected that he carried on a clandestine correspondence with you , for the one thing he would do was to get his own mail himself . 
So they thought he might have sent the new will to you for safekeeping . 
Your father made the second will to prevent that . 
I've been hoping you had it . 
It would be such fun to spring it on them . 
Clara laughed mirthfully , a thing she did not often do now . 
Nils shook his head reprovingly . 
Come , now , you're malicious . 
But I'd like something to happen to stir them all up , just for once . 
There never was such a family for having nothing ever happen to them but dinner and threshing . 
I'd almost be willing to die , just to have a funeral . 
i You i wouldn't stand it for three weeks . 
Nils bent over the piano and began pecking at the keys with the finger of one hand . 
I wouldn't ? My dear young lady , how do you know what I can stand ? i You i wouldn't wait to find out . 
Clara flushed darkly and frowned . 
I didn't believe you would ever come back she said defiantly . 
Eric believed I would , and he was only a baby when I went away . 
However , all's well that ends well , and I haven't come back to be a skeleton at the feast . 
Mother mill be here with a search warrant pretty soon . 
He swung round and faced her , thrusting his hands into his coat pockets . 
Come , you ought to be glad to see me , if you want something to happen . 
I'm something , even without a will . 
We can have a little fun , can't we ? I think we can ! She echoed him , I think we can ! They both laughed and their eyes sparkled . 
Clara Vavrika looked ten years younger than when she had put the velvet ribbon about her throat that morning . 
You know , I'm so tickled to see mother , Nils went on . 
I didn't know I was so proud of her . 
How about little pigtails , down at the house ? Is Olaf doing the square thing by those children ? Clara frowned pensively . 
Olaf has to do something that looks like the square thing , now that he's a public man ! She glanced drolly at Nils . 
But he makes a good commission out of it . 
On Sundays they all get together here and figure . 
He lets Peter and Anders put in big bills for the keep of the two boys , and he pays them out of the estate . 
They are always having what they call accountings . 
Olaf gets something out of it , too . 
I don't know just how they do it , but it's entirely a family matter , as they say . 
And when the Ericsons say that Clara lifted her eyebrows . 
Just then the angry i honk honk i of an approaching motor sounded from down the road . 
Their eyes met and they began to laugh . 
They laughed as children do when they can not contain themselves , and can not explain the cause of their mirth to grown people , but share it perfectly together . 
When Clara Vavrika sat down at the piano after he was gone , she felt that she had laughed away a dozen years . 
She practised as if the house were burning over her head . 
Then she remarked dryly If I were you I wouldn't see too much of Olaf's wife while you are here . 
She's the kind of woman who can't see much of men without getting herself talked about . 
She was a good deal talked about before he married her . 
Hasn't Olaf tamed her ? Nils asked indifferently . 
Mrs. Ericson shrugged her massive shoulders . 
Olaf don't seem to have much luck , when it comes to wives . 
The first one was meek enough , but she was always ailing . 
And this one has her own way . 
He says if he quarreled with her she'd go back to her father , and then he'd lose the Bohemian vote . 
There are a great many Bohunks in this district . 
But when you find a man under his wife's thumb you can always be sure there's a soft spot in him somewhere . 
Nils thought of his own father , and smiled . 
She brought him a good deal of money , didn't she , besides the Bohemian vote ? Mrs. Ericson sniffed . 
Well , she has a fair half section in her own name , but I can't see as that does Olaf much good . 
She will have a good deal of property some day , if old Vavrika don't marry again . 
But I don't consider a saloonkeeper's money as good as other people's money , Nils laughed outright . 
Come , Mother , don't let your prejudices carry you that far . 
Old Vavrika's a mighty decent sort of saloonkeeper . 
Mrs. Ericson spoke up angrily . 
There weren't so many after her when she married Olaf , let me tell you . 
She knew enough to grab her chance . 
Nils settled back in his seat . 
Of course I liked to go there , Mother , and you were always cross about it . 
You never took the trouble to find out that it was the one jolly house in this country for a boy to go to . 
All the rest of you were working yourselves to death , and the houses were mostly a mess , full of babies and washing and flies . 
oh , it was all right I understand that but you are young only once , and I happened to be young then . 
Now , Vavrika's was always jolly . 
He played the violin , and I used to take my flute , and Clara played the piano , and Johanna used to sing Bohemian songs . 
She always had a big supper for us herrings and pickles and poppy seed bread , and lots of cake and preserves . 
Old Joe had been in the army in the old country , and he could tell lots of good stories . 
I can see him cutting bread , at the head of the table , now . 
I don't know what I'd have done when I was a kid if it hadn't been for the Vavrikas , really . 
And all the time he was taking money that other people had worked hard in the fields for , Mrs. Ericson observed . 
So do the circuses , Mother , and they're a good thing . 
People ought to get fun for some of their money . 
Even father liked old Joe . 
Your father , Mrs. Ericson said grimly , liked everybody . 
As they crossed the sand creek and turned into her own place , Mrs. Ericson observed , There's Olaf's buggy . 
He's stopped on his way from town . 
Nils shook himself and prepared to greet his brother , who was waiting on the porch . 
Olaf was a big , heavy Norwegian , slow of speech and movement . 
His head was large and square , like a block of wood . 
When Olaf shook hands with Nils he looked at him from under his light eyebrows , but Nils felt that no one could ever say what that pale look might mean . 
The one thing he had always felt in Olaf was a heavy stubbornness , like the unyielding stickiness of wet loam against the plow . 
He had always found Olaf the most difficult of his brothers . 
How do you do , Nils ? Expect to stay with us long ? Oh , I may stay forever , Nils answered gaily . 
I like this country better than I used to . 
There's been some work put into it since you left , Olaf remarked . 
I think it's about ready to live in now and I'm about ready to settle down . 
Mother's been persuading me to slow down now , and go in for farming , he went on lightly . 
Olaf made a deep sound in his throat . 
Farming ain't learned in a day , he brought out , still looking at the ground . 
Oh , I know ! But I pick things up quickly . 
Nils had not meant to antagonize his brother , and he did not know now why he was doing it . 
Of course , he went on , I shouldn't expect to make a big success , as you fellows have done . 
But then , I'm not ambitious . 
A little land , and some cattle , maybe . 
Olaf still stared at the ground , his head down . 
He did not ask one of these questions , but he made them all felt distinctly . 
No wonder the man never talks , when he can butt his ideas into you like that without ever saying a word . 
I suppose he uses that kind of smokeless powder on his wife all the time . 
But I guess she has her innings . 
He chuckled , and Olaf looked up . 
Never mind me , Olaf . 
I laugh without knowing why , like little Eric . 
Eric , said Olaf slowly , is a spoiled kid . 
He's just let his mother's best cow go dry because he don't milk her right . 
I was hoping you'd take him away somewhere and put him into business . 
If he don't do any good among strangers , he never will . 
This was a long speech for Olaf , and as he finished it he climbed into his buggy . 
Same old tricks , he thought . 
Hits from behind you every time . 
What a whale of a man ! He turned and went round to the kitchen , where his mother was scolding little Eric for letting the gasoline get low . 
Clara rode up to see her father almost every day . 
Vavrika's house was , so to speak , in the back yard of his saloon . 
At one of these tables Nils Ericson was seated in the late afternoon , three days after his return home . 
Clara , in her riding habit , was standing at the back door of the house , under the grapevine trellis that old Joe had grown there long ago . 
Come out and keep your father and me company . 
We've been gossiping all afternoon . 
Nobody to bother us but the flies . 
No , I never come out here any more . 
I must live up to my position , you know . 
But I am never here when the bar is open . 
What have you two been doing ? Talking , as I told you . 
I've been telling him about my travels . 
I find I can't talk much at home , not even to Eric . 
Clara reached up and poked with her riding whip at a white moth that was fluttering in the sunlight among the vine leaves . 
I suppose you will never tell me about all those things . 
Where can I tell them ? Not in Olaf's house , certainly . 
What's the matter with our talking here ? He pointed persuasively with his hat to the bushes and the green table , where the flies were singing lazily above the empty beer glasses . 
Clara shook her head weakly . 
No , it wouldn't do . 
Besides , I am going now . 
Would you be angry if I overtook you ? Clara looked back and laughed . 
You might try and see . 
I can leave you if I don't want you . 
Eric's mare can't keep up with Norman . 
Nils went into the bar and attempted to pay his score . 
Big Joe , six feet four , with curly yellow hair and mustache , clapped him on the shoulder . 
Not a Goddamn a your money go in my drawer , you hear ? Only next time you bring your flute , te te te te te ty . 
Joe wagged his fingers in imitation of the flute player's position . 
My Clara , she come all a time Sundays an' play for me . 
She not like to play at Ericson's place . 
He shook his yellow curls and laughed . 
Not a Goddamn a fun at Ericson's . 
Joe talked very rapidly and always tumbled over his English . 
He seldom spoke it to his customers , and had never learned much . 
Nils swung himself into the saddle and trotted to the west of the village , where the houses and gardens scattered into prairie land and the road turned south . 
Far ahead of him , in the declining light , he saw Clara Vavrika's slender figure , loitering on horseback . 
He touched his mare with the whip , and shot along the white , level road , under the reddening sky . 
When he overtook Olaf's wife he saw that she had been crying . 
What's the matter , Clara Vavrika ? he asked kindly . 
Oh , I get blue sometimes . 
It was awfully jolly living there with father . 
I wonder why I ever went away . 
Nils spoke in a low , kind tone that he sometimes used with women That's what I've been wondering these many years . 
You were the last girl in the country I'd have picked for a wife for Olaf . 
What made you do it , Clara ? I suppose I really did it to oblige the neighbours Clara tossed her head . 
People were beginning to wonder . 
To wonder ? Yes why I didn't get married . 
I suppose I didn't like to keep them in suspense . 
I've discovered that most girls marry out of consideration for the neighbourhood . 
Nils bent his head toward her and his white teeth flashed . 
I'd have gambled that one girl I knew would say , 'Let the neighbourhood be damned . 
Clara shook her head mournfully . 
You see , they have it on you , Nils that is , if you're a woman . 
They say you're beginning to go off . 
That's what makes us get married we can't stand the laugh . 
Nils looked sidewise at her . 
He had never seen her head droop before . 
Resignation was the last thing he would have expected of her . 
In your case , there wasn't something else ? Something else ? I mean , you didn't do it to spite somebody ? Somebody who didn't come back ? Clara drew herself up . 
Oh , I never thought you'd come back . 
Not after I stopped writing to you , at least . 
i That i was all over , long before I married Olaf . 
It never occurred to you , then , that the meanest thing you could do to me was to marry Olaf ? Clara laughed . 
No I didn't know you were so fond of Olaf . 
Nils smoothed his horse's mane with his glove . 
You know , Clara Vavrika , you are never going to stick it out . 
You'll cut away some day , and I've been thinking you might as well cut away with me . 
Clara threw up her chin . 
Oh , you don't know me as well as you think . 
Sometimes , when I'm with father , I feel like it . 
But I can hold out as long as the Ericsons can . 
They've never got the best of me yet , and one can live , so long as one isn't beaten . 
If I go back to father , it's all up with Olaf in politics . 
He knows that , and he never goes much beyond sulking . 
I've as much wit as the Ericsons . 
I'll never leave them unless I can show them a thing or two . 
You mean unless you can come it over them ? Yes unless I go away with a man who is cleverer than they are , and who has more money . 
Dear me , you are demanding a good deal . 
The Ericsons , take the lot of them , are a bunch to beat . 
But I should think the excitement of tormenting them would have worn off by this time . 
It has , I'm afraid , Clara admitted mournfully . 
Then why don't you cut away ? There are more amusing games than this in the world . 
Clara took in her breath sharply . 
Ah , you have got the other will ! That was why you came home ! No , it wasn't . 
I came home to see how you were getting on with Olaf . 
Clara struck her horse with the whip , and in a bound she was far ahead of him . 
Nils dropped one word , Damn ! and whipped after her but she leaned forward in her saddle and fairly cut the wind . 
Her long riding skirt rippled in the still air behind her . 
When he overtook her he caught her horse by the bridle . 
Norman reared , and Nils was frightened for her but Clara kept her seat . 
Let me go , Nils Ericson ! she cried . 
I hate you more than any of them . 
You were created to torture me , the whole tribe of you to make me suffer in every possible way . 
She struck her horse again and galloped away from him . 
Nils set his teeth and looked thoughtful . 
He rode slowly home along the deserted road , watching the stars come out in the clear violet sky . 
They flashed softly into the limpid heavens , like jewels let fall into clear water . 
They were a reproach , he felt , to a sordid world . 
As he turned across the sand creek , he looked up at the North Star and smiled , as if there were an understanding between them . 
His mother scolded him for being late for supper . 
Clara sat under the cherry tree , reading aloud to him from the , weekly Bohemian papers . 
She had worn a white muslin dress under her riding habit , and the leaves of the cherry tree threw a pattern of sharp shadows over her skirt . 
The black cat was dozing in the sunlight at her feet , and Joe's dachshund was scratching a hole under the scarlet geraniums and dreaming of badgers . 
Joe was filling his pipe for the third time since dinner , when he heard a knocking on the fence . 
He broke into a loud guffaw and unlatched the little door that led into the street . 
He did not call Nils by name , but caught him by the hand and dragged him in . 
Clara stiffened and the colour deepened under her dark skin . 
Nils , too , felt a little awkward . 
He had not seen her since the night when she rode away from him and left him alone on the level road between the fields . 
Joe dragged him to the wooden bench beside the green table . 
You bring de flute , he cried , tapping the leather case under Nils' arm . 
Ah , das a good' Now we have some liddle fun like old times . 
I got somet'ing good for you . 
Joe shook his finger at Nils and winked his blue eye , a bright clear eye , full of fire , though the tiny bloodvessels on the ball were always a little distended . 
I got somet'ing for you from he paused and waved his hand Hongarie . 
You know Hongarie ? You wait ! He pushed Nils down on the bench , and went through the back door of his saloon . 
Nils looked at Clara , who sat frigidly with her white skirts drawn tight about her . 
He didn't tell you he had asked me to come , did he ? He wanted a party and proceeded to arrange it . 
Isn't he fun ? Don't be cross let's give him a good time . 
Clara smiled and shook out her skirt . 
Isn't that like Father ? And he has sat here so meekly all day . 
Well , I won't pout . 
He doesn't have very many good times now any more . 
There are so few of his kind left . 
The second generation are a tame lot . 
Joe came back with a flask in one hand and three wine glasses caught by the stems between the fingers of the other . 
These he placed on the table with an air of ceremony , and , going behind Nils , held the flask between him and the sun , squinting into it admiringly . 
You know dis , Tokai ? A great friend of mine , he bring dis to me , a present out of Hongarie . 
You know how much it cost , dis wine ? Chust so much what it weigh in gold . 
Nobody but de nobles drink him in Bohemie . 
Many , many years I save him up , dis Tokai . 
Joe whipped out his official corkscrew and delicately removed the cork . 
De old man die what bring him to me , an' dis wine he lay on his belly in my cellar an' sleep . 
Clara shook her head , but , seeing her father's disappointment , relented . 
I don't want so much . 
Joe sampled it with a beatific expression , and turned to Nils . 
You drink him slow , dis wine . 
He very soft , but he go down hot . 
You see ! After a second glass Nils declared that he couldn't take any more without getting sleepy . 
Now get your fiddle , Vavrika , he said as he opened his flute case . 
But Joe settled back in his wooden rocker and wagged his big carpet slipper . 
No no no no no no no ! No play fiddle now any more too much ache in de finger , waving them , all a time rheumatic . 
You play de flute , te tety tetety te . 
I've forgotten all the Bohemian songs I used to play with you and Johanna . 
But here's one that will make Clara pout . 
Oh h h , das a fine music , he cried , clapping his hands as Nils finished . 
Now 'Marble Halls , Marble Halls' ! Clara , you sing him . 
There's one more you always played , Clara said quietly , I remember that best . 
She locked her hands over her knee and began The Heart Bowed Down , and sang it through without groping for the words . 
She was singing with a good deal of warmth when she came to the end of the old song For memory is the only friend That grief can call its own . 
Joe flashed out his red silk handkerchief and blew his nose , shaking his head . 
No no no no no no no ! Too sad , too sad ! I not like a dat . 
Play quick somet'ing gay now . 
Nils put his lips to the instrument , and Joe lay back in his chair , laughing and singing , Oh , Evelina , Sweet Evelina ! Clara laughed , too . 
Long ago , when she and Nils went to high school , the model student of their class was a very homely girl in thick spectacles . 
Her name was Evelina Oleson she had a long , swinging walk which somehow suggested the measure of that song , and they used mercilessly to sing it at her . 
Oh , yes yes yes yes yes yes i yes i ! Dis time you haf to drink , and Clara she haf to , so she show she not jealous . 
So , we all drink to your girl . 
You not tell her name , eh ? No no no , I no make you tell . 
She pretty , eh ? She make good sweetheart ? I bet ! Joe winked and lifted his glass . 
How soon you get married ? Nils screwed up his eyes . 
Joe threw out his chest . 
Das a way boys talks . 
Mans say , 'You come to de church , an' get a hurry on you . 
Das a way mans talks . 
Maybe Nils hasn't got enough to keep a wife , put in Clara ironically . 
How about that , Nils ? she asked him frankly , as if she wanted to know . 
Nils looked at her coolly , raising one eyebrow . 
oh , I can keep her , all right . 
The way she wants to be kept ? With my wife , I'll decide that , replied Nils calmly . 
I'll give her what's good for her . 
Clara made a wry face . 
You'll give her the strap , I expect , like old Peter Oleson gave his wife . 
When she needs it , said Nils lazily , locking his hands behind his head and squinting up through the leaves of the cherry tree . 
I liked to have fun with you you'd get so mad . 
We i did i have fun , didn't we ? None of the other kids ever had so much fun . 
We knew how to play . 
Nils dropped his elbows on the table and looked steadily across at her . 
I've played with lots of girls since , but I haven't found one who was such good fun . 
Can you still play , or are you only pretending ? I can play better than I used to , and harder . 
Don't you ever work , then ? She had not intended to say it . 
It slipped out because she was confused enough to say just the wrong thing . 
Nils' steady gaze still beat upon her . 
Don't you worry about my working , Mrs. Ericson . 
You're getting like all the rest of them . 
He reached his brown , warm hand across the table and dropped it on Clara's , which was cold as an icicle . 
Last call for play , Mrs. Ericson ! Clara shivered , and suddenly her hands and cheeks grew warm . 
Her fingers lingered in his a moment , and they looked at each other earnestly . 
Joe Vavrika had put the mouth of the bottle to his lips and was swallowing the last drops of the Tokai , standing . 
The sun , just about to sink behind his shop , glistened on the bright glass , on his flushed face and curly yellow hair . 
Look , Clara whispered , that's the way I want to grow old . 
VI On the day of Olaf Ericson's barn raising , his wife , for once in a way , rose early . 
By four o'clock in the afternoon buggies and wagons began to arrive at the big unpainted building in front of Olaf's house . 
When Nils and his mother came at five , there were more than fifty people in the barn , and a great drove of children . 
On the ground floor stood six long tables , set with the crockery of seven flourishing Ericson families , lent for the occasion . 
In the middle of each table was a big yellow pumpkin , hollowed out and filled with woodbine . 
The box stalls Clara had converted into booths . 
The framework was hidden by goldenrod and sheaves of wheat , and the partitions were covered 'With wild grapevines full of fruit . 
At the third stall , little Hilda , in a bright pink lawn dress , dispensed lemonade throughout the afternoon . 
Hasn't Cousin Clara fixed things lovely ? little Hilda whispered , when Nils went up to her stall and asked for lemonade . 
Nils leaned against the booth , talking to the excited little girl and watching the people . 
Few of them wore glasses , and old Mrs. Svendsen , a Danish woman , who was quite bald , wore the only cap among them . 
Mrs. Oleson , who had twelve big grandchildren , could still show two braids of yellow hair as thick as her own wrists . 
Among all these grandmothers there were more brown heads than white . 
They all had a pleased , prosperous air , as if they were more than satisfied with themselves and with life . 
Nils , leaning against Hilda's lemonade stand , watched them as they sat chattering in four languages , their fingers never lagging behind their tongues . 
Look at them over there , he whispered , detaining Clara as she passed him . 
Aren't they the Old Guard ? I've just counted thirty hands . 
I guess they've wrung many a chicken's neck and warmed many a boy's jacket for him in their time . 
Clara Vavrika smiled a hard , enigmatical smile at him and walked rapidly away . 
Nils' eyes followed her white figure as she went toward the house . 
He watched her walking alone in the sunlight , looked at her slender , defiant shoulders and her little hard set head with its coils of blue black hair . 
No , he reflected she'd never be like them , not if she lived here a hundred years . 
She'd only grow more bitter . 
You can't tame a wild thing you can only chain it . 
I mustn't lose my nerve . 
He gave Hilda's pigtail a parting tweak and set out after Clara . 
Where to ? he asked , as he came upon her in the kitchen . 
I'm going to the cellar for preserves . 
Let me go with you . 
I never get a moment alone with you . 
Why do you keep out of my way ? Clara laughed . 
I don't usually get in anybody's way . 
Nils followed her down the stairs and to the far corner of the cellar , where a basement window let in a stream of light . 
From a swinging shelf Clara selected several glass jars , each labeled in Johanna's careful hand . 
Nils took up a brown flask . 
What's this ? It looks good . 
It's some French brandy father gave me when I was married . 
Would you like some ? Have you a corkscrew ? I'll get glasses . 
When she brought them , Nils took them from her and put them down on the window sill . 
Clara Vavrika , do you remember how crazy I used to be about you ? Clara shrugged her shoulders . 
Boys are always crazy about somebody or another . 
I dare say some silly has been crazy about Evelina Oleson . 
You got over it in a hurry . 
Because I didn't come back , you mean ? I had to get on , you know , and it was hard sledding at first . 
Then I heard you'd married Olaf . 
And then you stayed away from a broken heart , Clara laughed . 
And then I began to think about you more than I had since I first went away . 
I began to wonder if you were really as you had seemed to me when I was a boy . 
I thought I'd like to see . 
I've had lots of girls , but no one ever pulled me the same way . 
The more I thought about you , the more I remembered how it used to be like hearing a wild tune you can't resist , calling you out at night . 
It had been a long while since anything had pulled me out of my boots , and I wondered whether anything ever could again . 
Nils thrust his hands into his coat pockets and squared his shoulders , as his mother sometimes squared hers , as Olaf , in a clumsier manner , squared his . 
So I thought I'd come back and see . 
Of course the family have tried to do me , and I rather thought I'd bring out father's will and make a fuss . 
But they can have their old land they've put enough sweat into it . 
He took the flask and filled the two glasses carefully to the brim . 
I've found out what I want from the Ericsons . 
Drink i skoal i , Clara . 
He lifted his glass , and Clara took hers with downcast eyes . 
Look at me , Clara Vavrika . 
i Skoal ! i She raised her burning eyes and answered fiercely i Skoal ! i The barn supper began at six o'clock and lasted for two hilarious hours . 
Yense Nelson had made a wager that he could eat two whole fried chickens , and he did . 
Eli Swanson stowed away two whole custard pies , and Nick Hermanson ate a chocolate layer cake to the last crumb . 
Fritz Sweiheart , the German carpenter , won in the pickle contest , but he disappeared soon after supper and was not seen for the rest of the evening . 
Joe Vavrika said that Fritz could have managed the pickles all right , but he had sampled the demijohn in his buggy too often before sitting down to the table . 
While the supper was being cleared away the two fiddlers began to tune up for the dance . 
Clara was to accompany them on her old upright piano , which had been brought down from her father's . 
By this time Nils had renewed old acquaintances . 
When he dropped the bow every one was ready to dance . 
Olaf , in a frock coat and a solemn made up necktie , led the grand march with his mother . 
Clara had kept well out of i that i by sticking to the piano . 
She played the march with a pompous solemnity which greatly amused the prodigal son , who went over and stood behind her . 
Oh , aren't you rubbing it into them , Clara Vavrika ? And aren't you lucky to have me here , or all your wit would be thrown away . 
I'm used to being witty for myself . 
The fiddles struck up a polka , and Nils convulsed Joe Vavrika by leading out Evelina Oleson , the homely schoolteacher . 
Ask Olena Yenson , she whispered . 
Olena , too , was rather inconveniently plump , handsome in a smooth , heavy way , with a fine colour and good natured , sleepy eyes . 
She was redolent of violet sachet powder , and had warm , soft , white hands , but she danced divinely , moving as smoothly as the tide coming in . 
There , that's something like , Nils said as he released her . 
You'll give me the next waltz , won't you ? Now I must go and dance with my little cousin . 
Hilda was greatly excited when Nils went up to her stall and held out his arm . 
Her little eyes sparkled , but she declared that she could not leave her lemonade . 
Old Mrs. Ericson , who happened along at this moment , said she would attend to that , and Hilda came out , as pink as her pink dress . 
The dance was a schottische , and in a moment her yellow braids were fairly standing on end . 
Bravo ! Nils cried encouragingly . 
Where did you learn to dance so nicely ? My Cousin Clara taught me , the little girl panted . 
Nils found Eric sitting with a group of boys who were too awkward or too shy to dance , and told him that he must dance the next waltz with Hilda . 
The boy screwed up his shoulders . 
Aw , Nils , I can't dance . 
My feet are too big I look silly . 
Don't be thinking about yourself . 
It doesn't matter how boys look . 
Nils had never spoken to him so sharply before , and Eric made haste to scramble out of his corner and brush the straw from his coat . 
Good for you , Nils . 
I've been trying to get hold of him . 
They dance very nicely together I sometimes play for them . 
I'm obliged to you for teaching him . 
There's no reason why he should grow up to be a lout . 
He's more like you than any of them . 
Only he hasn't your courage . 
Clara was proving a much better host than Olaf , who , once the supper was over , seemed to feel no interest in anything but the lanterns . 
His wife , on the contrary , was cordial to every one , was animated and even gay . 
The deep salmon colour in her cheeks burned vividly , and her eyes were full of life . 
In his youth Joe had been a famous dancer , and his daughter got him so limbered up that every one sat around and applauded them . 
The old ladies were particularly delighted , and made them go through the dance again . 
Clara was waltzing with little Eric when Nils came up to them , brushed his brother aside , and swung her out among the dancers . 
Remember how we used to waltz on rollers at the old skating rink in town ? I suppose people don't do that any more . 
We used to keep it up for hours . 
You know , we never did moon around as other boys and girls did . 
It was dead serious with us from the beginning . 
When we were most in love with each other , we used to fight . 
You were always pinching people your fingers were like little nippers . 
A regular snapping turtle , you were . 
Lord , how you'd like Stockholm ! Sit out in the streets in front of cafes and talk all night in summer . 
just like a reception officers and ladies and funny English people . 
Jolliest people in the world , the Swedes , once you get them going . 
Always drinking things champagne and stout mixed , half and half , serve it out of big pitchers , and serve plenty . 
Slow pulse , you know they can stand a lot . 
Once they light up , they're glowworms , I can tell you . 
All the same , you don't really like gay people . 
i I i don't ? No I could tell that when you were looking at the old women there this afternoon . 
They're the kind you really admire , after all women like your mother . 
And that's the kind you'll marry . 
Is it , Miss Wisdom ? You'll see who I'll marry , and she won't have a domestic virtue to bless herself with . 
She'll be a snapping turtle , and she'll be a match for me . 
All the same , they're a fine bunch of old dames over there . 
You admire them yourself No , I don't I detest them . 
You won't , when you look back on them from Stockholm or Budapest . 
Hush , Nils every one is looking at you . 
It's all in the family , as the Ericsons say when they divide up little Hilda's patrimony amongst them . 
Besides , we'll give them something to talk about when we hit the trail . 
Lord , it will be a godsend to them ! They haven't had anything so interesting to chatter about since the grasshopper year . 
It'll give them a new lease of life . 
And Olaf won't lose the Bohemian vote , either . 
They'll have the laugh on him so that they'll vote two apiece . 
They'll send him to Congress . 
They'll never forget his barn party , or us . 
They'll always remember us as we're dancing together now . 
Where's my waltz , boys ? he called as they whirled past the fiddlers . 
The old women applauded vigorously . 
What a gay one he is , that Nils ! And old Mrs. Svendsen's cap lurched dreamily from side to side to the flowing measure of the dance . 
Of days that have as ha a p py been , And you'll remember me . 
VII The moonlight flooded that great , silent land . 
The reaped fields lay yellow in it . 
The straw stacks and poplar windbreaks threw sharp black shadows . 
The roads were white rivers of dust . 
The sky was a deep , crystalline blue , and the stars were few and faint . 
Everything seemed to have succumbed , to have sunk to sleep , under the great , golden , tender , midsummer moon . 
The splendour of it seemed to transcend human life and human fate . 
Near the road , Nils Ericson was lying against a straw stack in Olaf's wheat field . 
His own life seemed strange and unfamiliar to him , as if it were something he had read about , or dreamed , and forgotten . 
At last , against this white band he saw something moving rapidly , and he got up and walked to the edge of the field . 
She is passing the row of poplars now , he thought . 
He heard the padded beat of hoofs along the dusty road , and as she came into sight he stepped out and waved his arms . 
Then , for fear of frightening the horse , he drew back and waited . 
Clara had seen him , and she came up at a walk . 
Nils took the horse by the bit and stroked his neck . 
What are you doing out so late , Clara Vavrika ? I went to the house , but Johanna told me you had gone to your father's . 
Who can stay in the house on a night like this ? Aren't you out yourself ? Ah , but that's another matter . 
Nils turned the horse into the field . 
What are you doing ? Where are you taking Norman ? Not far , but I want to talk to you tonight I have something to say to you . 
I can't talk to you at the house , with Olaf sitting there on the porch , weighing a thousand tons . 
He won't be sitting there now . 
He's in bed by this time , and asleep weighing a thousand tons . 
Nils plodded on across the stubble . 
His little place will be shut up or sold , and then you'll have nobody but the Ericsons . 
You'll have to fasten down the hatches for the winter then . 
Clara moved her head restlessly . 
I try never to think of it . 
If I lost Father I'd lose everything , even my hold over the Ericsons . 
Bah ! You'd lose a good deal more than that . 
You'd lose your race , everything that makes you yourself . 
You've lost a good deal of it now . 
Of what ? Of your love of life , your capacity for delight . 
Clara put her hands up to her face . 
I haven't , Nils Ericson , I haven't ! Say anything to me but that . 
I won't have it ! she declared vehemently . 
Nils led the horse up to a straw stack , and turned to Clara , looking at her intently , as he had looked at her that Sunday afternoon at Vavrika's . 
That is how I remembered you . 
And I come back and find you a bitter woman . 
This is a perfect ferret fight here you live by biting and being bitten . 
Can't you remember what life used to be ? Can't you remember that old delight ? I've never forgotten it , or known its like , on land or sea . 
He drew the horse under the shadow of the straw stack . 
Clara felt him take her foot out of the stirrup , and she slid softly down into his arms . 
He was a deliberate man , but his nerves were steel when he wanted anything . 
Something flashed out from him like a knife out of a sheath . 
Clara felt everything slipping away from her she was flooded by the summer night . 
He thrust his hand into his pocket , and then held it out at arm's length . 
The shadow of the straw stack fell sharp across his wrist , and in the palm of his hand she saw a silver dollar shining . 
That's my pile , he muttered will you go with me ? Clara nodded , and dropped her forehead on his shoulder . 
Nils took a deep breath . 
Will you go with me tonight ? Where ? she whispered softly . 
To town , to catch the midnight flyer . 
Clara lifted her head and pulled herself together . 
Are you crazy , Nils ? We couldn't go away like that . 
That's the only way we ever will go . 
You can't sit on the bank and think about it . 
That's the way I've always done , and it's the right way for people like you and me . 
There's nothing so dangerous as sitting still . 
You've only got one life , one youth , and you can let it slip through your fingers if you want to nothing easier . 
You'd be better off tramping the roads with me than you are here . 
Nils held back her head and looked into her eyes . 
But I'm not that kind of a tramp , Clara . 
You won't have to take in sewing . 
I'm with a Norwegian shipping line came over on business with the New York offices , but now I'm going straight back to Bergen . 
I expect I've got as much money as the Ericsons . 
Father sent me a little to get started . 
They never knew about that . 
There , I hadn't meant to tell you I wanted you to come on your own nerve . 
Clara looked off across the fields . 
It isn't that , Nils , but something seems to hold me . 
I'm afraid to pull against it . 
It comes out of the ground , I think . 
I know all about that . 
One has to tear loose . 
Your father will understand he's made like us . 
As for Olaf , Johanna will take better care of him than ever you could . 
It's now or never , Clara Vavrika . 
My bag's at the station I smuggled it there yesterday . 
Clara clung to him and hid her face against his shoulder . 
Not tonight , she whispered . 
Sit here and talk to me tonight . 
I don't want to go anywhere tonight . 
I may never love you like this again . 
Nils laughed through his teeth . 
You can't come that on me . 
That's not my way , Clara Vavrika . 
Eric's mare is over there behind the stacks , and I'm off on the midnight . 
It's goodbye , or off across the world with me . 
I've written a letter to Olaf , I'll mail it in town . 
When he reads it he won't bother us not if I know him . 
He'd rather have the land . 
Besides , I could demand an investigation of his administration of Cousin Henrik's estate , and that would be bad for a public man . 
You've no clothes , I know but you can sit up tonight , and we can get everything on the way . 
Where's your old dash , Clara Vavrika ? What's become of your Bohemian blood ? I used to think you had courage enough for anything . 
Where's your nerve what are you waiting for ? Clara drew back her head , and he saw the slumberous fire in her eyes . 
For you to say one thing , Nils Ericson . 
I never say that thing to any woman , Clara Vavrika . 
Clara sank down on a sheaf of wheat and covered her face with her hands . 
She did not know what she was going to do whether she would go or stay . 
The great , silent country seemed to lay a spell upon her . 
The ground seemed to hold her as if by roots . 
Her knees were soft under her . 
She felt as if she could not bear separation from her old sorrows , from her old discontent . 
They were dear to her , they had kept her alive , they were a part of her . 
There would be nothing left of her if she were wrenched away from them . 
Never could she pass beyond that skyline against which her restlessness had beat so many times . 
She pressed her fingers against her eyeballs to shut it out . 
Beside her she heard the tramping of horses in the soft earth . 
Nils said nothing to her . 
He put his hands under her arms and lifted her lightly to her saddle . 
Then he swung himself into his own . 
We shall have to ride fast to catch the midnight train . 
A last gallop , Clara Vavrika . 
VII A year after the flight of Olaf Ericson's wife , the night train was steaming across the plains of Iowa . 
What is the next stop , please , sir ? Red Oak , Iowa . 
But I was wondering whether I could get off at the next place and get a train back to Omaha . 
Well , I suppose you could . 
Live in Omaha ? No. In the western part of the State . 
How soon do we get to Red Oak ? Forty minutes . 
You'd better make up your mind , so I can tell the baggageman to put your trunk off . 
Oh , never mind about that ! I mean , I haven't got any , the boy added , blushing . 
Run away , the conductor thought , as he slammed the coach door behind him . 
Eric Ericson crumpled down in his seat and put his brown hand to his forehead . 
He had been crying , and he had had no supper , and his head was aching violently . 
Oh , what shall I do ? he thought , as he looked dully down at his big shoes . 
Nils will be ashamed of me I haven't got any spunk . 
Ever since Nils had run away with his brother's wife , life at home had been hard for little Eric . 
His mother and Olaf both suspected him of complicity . 
Mrs. Ericson was harsh and faultfinding , constantly wounding the boy's pride and Olaf was always setting her against him . 
Joe Vavrika heard often from his daughter . 
Clara had always been fond of her father , and happiness made her kinder . 
These letters Joe always managed to read to little Eric . 
They contained messages for Eric and Hilda . 
But Olaf once saw Eric coming out of Vavrika's house the old man had never asked the boy to come into his saloon and Olaf went straight to his mother and told her . 
That night Mrs. Ericson came to Eric's room after he was in bed and made a terrible scene . 
She could be very terrifying when she was really angry . 
She forbade him ever to speak to Vavrika again , and after that night she would not allow him to go to town alone . 
So it was a long while before Eric got any more news of his brother . 
But old Joe suspected what was going on , and he carried Clara's letters about in his pocket . 
One Sunday he drove out to see a German friend of his , and chanced to catch sight of Eric , sitting by the cattle pond in the big pasture . 
They went together into Fritz Oberlies' barn , and read the letters and talked things over . 
Eric admitted that things were getting hard for him at home . 
That very night old Joe sat down and laboriously penned a statement of the case to his daughter . 
Things got no better for Eric . 
His mother and Olaf felt that , however closely he was watched , he still , as they said , heard . 
Mrs. Ericson could not admit neutrality . 
She had sent Johanna Vavrika packing back to her brother's , though Olaf would much rather have kept her than Anders' eldest daughter , whom Mrs. Ericson installed in her place . 
He was not so highhanded as his mother , and he once sulkily told her that she might better have taught her granddaughter to cook before she sent Johanna away . 
Olaf could have borne a good deal for the sake of prunes spiced in honey , the secret of which Johanna had taken away with her . 
He was to leave New York on one of the boats of Nils' own line the captain was one of their friends , and Eric was to make himself known at once . 
Nils' directions were so explicit that a baby could have followed them , Eric felt . 
And here he was , nearing Red Oak , Iowa , and rocking backward and forward in despair . 
Never had he loved his brother so much , and never had the big world called to him so hard . 
But there was a lump in his throat which would not go down . 
Ever since nightfall he had been tormented by the thought of his mother , alone in that big house that had sent forth so many men . 
Her unkindness now seemed so little , and her loneliness so great . 
He remembered everything she had ever done for him how frightened she had been when he tore his hand in the corn sheller , and how she wouldn't let Olaf scold him . 
When Nils went away he didn't leave his mother all alone , or he would never have gone . 
Eric felt sure of that . 
The conductor came in , smiling not unkindly . 
Well , young man , what are you going to do ? We stop at Red Oak in three minutes . 
The conductor went out , and the boy doubled up with misery . 
He couldn't let his one chance go like this . 
He felt for his breast pocket and crackled Nils' letter to give him courage . 
He didn't want Nils to be ashamed of him . 
Suddenly he remembered his brother's kind , twinkling eyes , that always looked at you as if from far away . 
The lump in his throat softened . 
Ah , but Nils , Nils would i understand i ! he thought . 
That's just it about Nils he always understands . 
Little Hilda had been sent to bed and had cried herself to sleep . 
The old woman's knitting was on her lap , but her hands lay motionless on top of it . 
For more than an hour she had not moved a muscle . 
She simply sat , as only the Ericsons and the mountains can sit . 
The house was dark , and there was no sound but the croaking of the frogs down in the pond of the little pasture . 
Eric did not come home by the road , but across the fields , where no one could see him . 
He set his telescope down softly in the kitchen shed , and slipped noiselessly along the path to the front porch . 
He sat down on the step without saying anything . 
Mrs. Ericson made no sign , and the frogs croaked on . 
At last the boy spoke timidly . 
I've come back , Mother . 
Very well , said Mrs. Ericson . 
Eric leaned over and picked up a little stick out of the grass . 
How about the milking ? he faltered . 
That's been done , hours ago . 
Who did you get ? Get ? I did it myself . 
I can milk as good as any of you . 
Eric slid along the step nearer to her . 
Oh , Mother , why did you ? he asked sorrowfully . 
Why didn't you get one of Otto's boys ? I didn't want anybody to know I was in need of a boy , said Mrs. Ericson bitterly . 
She looked straight in front of her and her mouth tightened . 
I always meant to give you the home farm , she added . 
The boy stared and slid closer . 
Oh , Mother , he faltered , I don't care about the farm . 
I came back because I thought you might be needing me , maybe . 
He hung his head and got no further . 
Very well , said Mrs. Ericson . 
Her hand went out from her suddenly and rested on his head . 
Her fingers twined themselves in his soft , pale hair . 
His tears splashed down on the boards happiness filled his heart . 
The Troll Garden Flavia and Her Artists As the train neared Tarrytown , Imogen Willard began to wonder why she had consented to be one of Flavia's house party at all . 
Perhaps it was a vague curiosity to see Flavia's husband , who had been the magician of her childhood and the hero of innumerable Arabian fairy tales . 
Perhaps it was a desire to see M. Roux , whom Flavia had announced as the especial attraction of the occasion . 
Perhaps it was a wish to study that remarkable woman in her own setting . 
Imogen admitted a mild curiosity concerning Flavia . 
She was in the habit of taking people rather seriously , but somehow found it impossible to take Flavia so , because of the very vehemence and insistence with which Flavia demanded it . 
When Imogen stepped upon the station platform she was immediately appropriated by her hostess , whose commanding figure and assurance of attire she had recognized from a distance . 
She was hurried into a high tilbury and Flavia , taking the driver's cushion beside her , gathered up the reins with an experienced hand . 
My dear girl , she remarked , as she turned the horses up the street , I was afraid the train might be late . 
M. Roux insisted upon coming up by boat and did not arrive until after seven . 
He is the sort of man who must dissolve and become a shadow outside of Paris . 
Oh , we have a houseful of the most interesting people , said Flavia , professionally . 
We have actually managed to get Ivan Schemetzkin . 
He was ill in California at the close of his concert tour , you know , and he is recuperating with us , after his wearing journey from the coast . 
Then there is my second cousin , Jemima Broadwood , who made such a hit in Pinero's comedy last winter , and Frau Lichtenfeld . 
i Have i you read her ? Imogen confessed her utter ignorance of Frau Lichtenfeld , and Flavia went on . 
Such a story ! Her novels were the talk of all Germany when I was there last , and several of them have been suppressed an honor in Germany , I understand . 
'At Whose Door' has been translated . 
I am so unfortunate as not to read German . 
I'm all excitement at the prospect of meeting Miss Broadwood , said Imogen . 
I've seen her in nearly everything she does . 
Her stage personality is delightful . 
She always reminds me of a nice , clean , pink and white boy who has just had his cold bath , and come down all aglow for a run before breakfast . 
I don't at all agree with you , she said reservedly . 
I thought everyone admitted that the most remarkable thing about Miss Broadwood is her admirable sense of fitness , which is rare enough in her profession . 
Flavia could not endure being contradicted she always seemed to regard it in the light of a defeat , and usually colored unbecomingly . 
Now she changed the subject . 
Look , my dear , she cried , there is Frau Lichtenfeld now , coming to meet us . 
Doesn't she look as if she had just escaped out of Valhalla ? She is actually over six feet . 
Imogen saw a woman of immense stature , in a very short skirt and a broad , flapping sun hat , striding down the hillside at a long , swinging gait . 
The refugee from Valhalla approached , panting . 
Her heavy , Teutonic features were scarlet from the rigor of her exercise , and her hair , under her flapping sun hat , was tightly befrizzled about her brow . 
She fixed her sharp little eves upon Imogen and extended both her hands . 
So this is the little friend ? she cried , in a rolling baritone . 
Imogen was quite as tall as her hostess but everything , she reflected , is comparative . 
After the introduction Flavia apologized . 
I wish I could ask you to drive up with us , Frau Lichtenfeld . 
Ah , no ! cried the giantess , drooping her head in humorous caricature of a time honored pose of the heroines of sentimental romances . 
It has never been my fate to be fitted into corners . 
I have never known the sweet privileges of the tiny . 
When they arrived at the house , Imogen looked about her with keen curiosity , for this was veritably the work of Flavia's hands , the materialization of hopes long deferred . 
They passed directly into a large , square hall with a gallery on three sides , studio fashion . 
This opened at one end into a Dutch breakfast room , beyond which was the large dining room . 
At the other end of the hall was the music room . 
There was a smoking room , which one entered through the library behind the staircase . 
When Imogen went to her room , the guests had begun to return from their various afternoon excursions . 
Boys were gliding through the halls with ice water , covered trays , and flowers , colliding with maids and valets who carried shoes and other articles of wearing apparel . 
Yet , all this was done in response to inaudible bells , on felt soles , and in hushed voices , so that there was very little confusion about it . 
Her ambition had long ago outgrown the dimensions of her house on Prairie Avenue besides , she had bitterly complained that in Chicago traditions were against her . 
Flavia's house was the mirror of her exultation it was a temple to the gods of Victory , a sort of triumphal arch . 
In her earlier days she had swallowed experiences that would have unmanned one of less torrential enthusiasm or blind pertinacity . 
In the stead of this multitude of the unarrived , she had now the few , the select , the best . 
Of all that band of indigent retainers who had once fed at her board like the suitors in the halls of Penelope , only Alcee Buisson still retained his right of entree . 
Then , as Miss Broadwood put it , he was her first real one , and Flavia , like Mohammed , could remember her first believer . 
The House of Song , as Miss Broadwood had called it , was the outcome of Flavia's more exalted strategies . 
This must be a refuge where the shrinking soul , the sensitive brain , should be unconstrained where the caprice of fancy should outweigh the civil code , if necessary . 
She considered that this much Arthur owed her for she , in her turn , had made concessions . 
Arthur Hamilton was born and had spent his boyhood in the West Indies , and physically he had never lost the brand of the tropics . 
His father , after inventing the machine which bore his name , had returned to the States to patent and manufacture it . 
After leaving college , Arthur had spent five years ranching in the West and traveling abroad . 
While there was something unmistakably professional in her frank i savoir faire i , Jimmy's was one of those faces to which the rouge never seems to stick . 
She wore her thick , brown hair short and parted at the side and , rather than hinting at freakishness , this seemed admirably in keeping with her fresh , boyish countenance . 
She extended to Imogen a large , well shaped hand which it was a pleasure to clasp . 
Ah ! You are Miss Willard , and I see I need not introduce myself . 
Flavia said you were kind enough to express a wish to meet me , and I preferred to meet you alone . 
Do you mind if I smoke ? Why , certainly not , said Imogen , somewhat disconcerted and looking hurriedly about for matches . 
She sat down in a deep chair , crossed her patent leather Oxfords , and lit her cigarette . 
This matchbox , she went on meditatively , once belonged to a Prussian officer . 
He shot himself in his bathtub , and I bought it at the sale of his effects . 
I wanted very much to meet you . 
Flavia gave me your thesis to read . 
Why , how funny ! ejaculated Imogen . 
On the contrary , remarked Miss Broadwood . 
I thought it decidedly lacked humor . 
I meant , stammered Imogen , beginning to feel very much like Alice in Wonderland , I meant that I thought it rather strange Mrs. Hamilton should fancy you would be interested . 
Now , don't let my rudeness frighten you . 
Really , I found it very interesting , and no end impressive . 
Strange to say , scholarship is the object of our envious and particular admiration . 
Anything in type impresses us greatly that's why so many of us marry authors or newspapermen and lead miserable lives . 
Miss Broadwood saw that she had rather disconcerted Imogen , and blithely tacked in another direction . 
I've Pinero to thank for both pleasures . 
It all depends on the class of business I'm playing whether I'm in favor or not . 
Flavia is my second cousin , you know , so I can say whatever disagreeable things I choose with perfect good grace . 
I don't intend you shall lose the humor of the situation . 
So far , you are the only one of the artists I've met . 
One of them ? echoed Miss Broadwood . 
One of the i artists i ? My offense may be rank , my dear , but I really don't deserve that . 
Come , now , whatever badges of my tribe I may bear upon me , just let me divest you of any notion that I take myself seriously . 
Imogen turned from the mirror in blank astonishment and sat down on the arm of a chair , facing her visitor . 
I can't fathom you at all , Miss Broadwood , she said frankly . 
Now we are quite even about the thesis , aren't we ? Oh , did you mean it ? Well , you i are i a clever girl . 
But you see it doesn't do to permit oneself to look at it in that light . 
If we do , we always go to pieces and waste our substance astarring as the unhappy daughter of the Capulets . 
But there , I hear Flavia coming to take you down and just remember I'm not one of them the artists , I mean . 
Flavia conducted Imogen and Miss Broadwood downstairs . 
The June evening was chilly , and a fire had been lighted in the fireplace . 
Through the deepening dusk , the firelight flickered upon the pipes and curious weapons on the wall and threw an orange glow over the Turkish hangings . 
One side of the smoking room was entirely of glass , separating it from the conservatory , which was flooded with white light from the electric bulbs . 
There was about the darkened room some suggestion of certain chambers in the Arabian Nights , opening on a court of palms . 
He was long , and thin , and brown . 
His long , nerveless hands drooped from the arms of his chair . 
A brown mustache shaded his mouth , and his eyes were sleepy and apathetic . 
When Imogen entered he rose indolently and gave her his hand , his manner barely courteous . 
I am glad you arrived promptly , Miss Willard , he said with an indifferent drawl . 
Flavia was afraid you might be late . 
Well , Jimmy , he remarked , I brought up a piano box full of fireworks for the boys . 
Have you seen Helen , and has she told you the tragedy of the tooth ? She met me at the station , with her tooth wrapped up in tissue paper . 
I had tea with her an hour ago . 
Better sit down , Miss Willard he rose and pushed a chair toward Imogen , who was standing peering into the conservatory . 
We are scheduled to dine at seven , but they seldom get around before eight . 
By this time Imogen had made out that here the plural pronoun , third person , always referred to the artists . 
She turned quickly in the direction of his glance , and saw Flavia , just entering , dressed for dinner and lit by the effulgence of her most radiant manner . 
Most people considered Flavia handsome , and there was no gainsaying that she carried her five and thirty years splendidly . 
Her figure had never grown matronly , and her face was of the sort that does not show wear . 
Its blond tints were as fresh and enduring as enamel and quite as hard . 
Its usual expression was one of tense , often strained , animation , which compressed her lips nervously . 
A perfect scream of animation , Miss Broadwood had called it , created and maintained by sheer , indomitable force of will . 
At least this was the impression Imogen got from that note in Flavia which was so manifestly false . 
Hamilton's keen , quick , satisfied glance at his wife had recalled to Imogen all her inventory of speculations about them . 
She looked at him with compassionate surprise . 
It seemed quite as irrational as trying to possess oneself of Broadway at noon . 
When they went out to dinner Imogen realized the completeness of Flavia's triumph . 
They were people of one name , mostly , like kings people whose names stirred the imagination like a romance or a melody . 
Frau Lichtenfeld shone in a gown of emerald green , fitting so closely as to enhance her natural floridness . 
However , to do the good lady justice , let her attire be never so modest , it gave an effect of barbaric splendor . 
At her left sat Herr Schotte , the Assyriologist , whose features were effectually concealed by the convergence of his hair and beard , and whose glasses were continually falling into his plate . 
His eyes were small and deeply set , and his forehead bulged fiercely above his eves in a bony ridge . 
His heavy brows completed the leonine suggestion of his face . 
Even to Imogen , who knew something of his work and greatly respected it , he was entirely too reminiscent of the Stone Age to be altogether an agreeable dinner companion . 
He seemed , indeed , to have absorbed something of the savagery of those early types of life which he continually studied . 
Feeling the security of his position he stoutly defended those passages which jarred upon the sensitive nerves of the young editor of i Woman i . 
Restzhoff , the chemist , demanded the attention of the entire company for his exposition of his devices for manufacturing ice cream from vegetable oils and for administering drugs in bonbons . 
Imogen was considerably shocked at his unlikeness to the slender , black stocked Rolla he had looked at twenty . 
He had declined into the florid , settled heaviness of indifference and approaching age . 
Throughout the discussion between Wellington and Will Maidenwood , though they invited his participation , he remained silent , betraying no sign either of interest or contempt . 
Since his arrival he had directed most of his conversation to Hamilton , who had never read one of his twelve great novels . 
This perplexed and troubled Flavia . 
Flavia bad already repeated this remark to Imogen . 
It haunted her , and each time she quoted it she was impressed anew . 
Flavia shifted the conversation uneasily , evidently exasperated and excited by her repeated failures to draw the novelist out . 
And you still think a woman so constituted a mythical personage ? persisted Flavia , nodding her head encouragingly . 
i Une Meduse i , madam , who , if she were discovered , would transmute us all into stone , said the novelist , bowing gravely . 
If she existed at all , he added deliberately , it was my business to find her , and she has cost me many a vain pilgrimage . 
Like Rudel of Tripoli , I have crossed seas and penetrated deserts to seek her out . 
And Mrs. Browning , George Eliot , and your own Mme . 
Madam , while the intellect was undeniably present in the performances of those women , it was only the stick of the rocket . 
Although this woman has eluded me I have studied her conditions and perturbances as astronomers conjecture the orbits of planets they have never seen . 
if she exists , she is probably neither an artist nor a woman with a mission , but an obscure personage , with imperative intellectual needs , who absorbs rather than produces . 
Flavia , still nodding nervously , fixed a strained glance of interrogation upon M. Roux . 
Exactly so you are really remarkable , madam , he added , in a tone of cold astonishment . 
He flatly refused to play anything more serious , and would practice only in the morning , when he had the music room to himself . 
Hamilton and M. Roux repaired to the smoking room to discuss the necessity of extending the tax on manufactured articles in France one of those conversations which particularly exasperated Flavia . 
Hamilton rose with an annoyed look and placed his cigarette on the mantel . 
Why yes , Flavia , I'll accompany him , provided he sings something with a melody , Italian arias or ballads , and provided the recital is not interminable . 
You will join us , M. Roux ? Thank you , but I have some letters to write , replied the novelist , bowing . 
As Flavia had remarked to Imogen , Arthur really played accompaniments remarkably well . 
To hear him recalled vividly the days of her childhood , when he always used to spend his business vacations at her mother's home in Maine . 
He had possessed for her that almost hypnotic influence which young men sometimes exert upon little girls . 
It was a sort of phantom love affair , subjective and fanciful , a precocity of instinct , like that tender and maternal concern which some little girls feel for their dolls . 
Yet this childish infatuation is capable of all the depressions and exaltations of love itself , it has its bitter jealousies , cruel disappointments , its exacting caprices . 
Summer after summer she had awaited his coming and wept at his departure , indifferent to the gayer young men who had called her their sweetheart and laughed at everything she said . 
Although Hamilton never said so , she had been always quite sure that he was fond of her . 
He would lie in the sand smoking , his eyes half closed , watching her play , and she was always conscious that she was entertaining him . 
No one else could laugh so , with just their eyes , and without moving a muscle of their face . 
But he highly disapproved of this preference , and had called it a morbid taste , and always shook his finger at her when she asked for the story . 
When Flavia had taken him away and he came no more , she wept inconsolably for the space of two weeks , and refused to learn her lessons . 
Then she found the story of the Little Mermaid herself , and forgot him . 
She was intensely curious about his exact state of feeling toward his wife , and more curious still to catch a sense of his final adjustment to the conditions of life in general . 
That evening , before retiring , Flavia entered her husband's room , where be sat in his smoking jacket , in one of his favorite low chairs . 
I suppose it's a grave responsibility to bring an ardent , serious young thing like Imogen here among all these fascinating personages , she remarked reflectively . 
But , after all , one can never tell . 
These grave , silent girls have their own charm , even for facile people . 
Oh , so that is your plan ? queried her husband dryly . 
I was wondering why you got her up here . 
She doesn't seem to mix well with the faciles . 
At least , so it struck me . 
Flavia paid no heed to this jeering remark , but repeated , No , after all , it may not be a bad thing . 
Then do consign her to that shaken reed , the tenor , said her husband yawning . 
I remember she used to have a taste for the pathetic . 
And then , remarked Flavia coquettishly , after all , I owe her mother a return in kind . 
She was not afraid to trifle with destiny . 
But Hamilton was asleep in his chair . 
Next morning Imogen found only Miss Broadwood in the breakfast room . 
Good morning , my dear girl , whatever are you doing up so early ? They never breakfast before eleven . 
Most of them take their coffee in their room . 
Take this place by me . 
She wore a white rosebud in the lapel of her coat , and decidedly she seemed more than ever like a nice , clean boy on his holiday . 
Imogen was just hoping that they would breakfast alone when Miss Broadwood exclaimed , Ah , there comes Arthur with the children . 
That's the reward of early rising in this house you never get to see the youngsters at any other time . 
Hamilton entered , followed by two dark , handsome little boys . 
The girl , who was very tiny , blonde like her mother , and exceedingly frail , he carried in his arms . 
The boys came up and said good morning with an ease and cheerfulness uncommon , even in well bred children , but the little girl hid her face on her father's shoulder . 
She's a shy little lady , he explained as he put her gently down in her chair . 
I'm afraid she's like her father she can't seem to get used to meeting people . 
His elder brother looked up at him with apprehensive astonishment , while Miss Broadwood hastily put her napkin to her lips and Hamilton dropped his eyes . 
If little boys dream things , they are so apt not to come true , he reflected sadly . 
This shook even the redoubtable William , and he glanced nervously at his brother . 
But do things vanish just because they have been dreamed ? he objected . 
Generally that is the very best reason for their vanishing , said Arthur gravely . 
But , Father , people can't help what they dream , remonstrated Edward gently . 
Oh , come ! You're making these children talk like a Maeterlinck dialogue , laughed Miss Broadwood . 
Flavia presently entered , a book in her hand , and bade them all good morning . 
Come , little people , which story shall it be this morning ? she asked winningly . 
Greatly excited , the children followed her into the garden . 
She does then , sometimes , murmured Imogen as they left the breakfast room . 
Oh , yes , to be sure , said Miss Broadwood cheerfully . 
She reads a story to them every morning in the most picturesque part of the garden . 
The mother of the Gracchi , you know . 
She does so long , she says , for the time when they will be intellectual companions for her . 
Aren't they the most attractive little children , exclaimed Imogen as they wound down the road toward the river . 
Yes , and you must not fail to tell Flavia that you think so . 
She is awfully afraid of missing anything good , is Flavia . 
The way those youngsters manage to conceal their guilty presence in the House of Song is a wonder . 
But don't any of the artist folk fancy children ? asked Imogen . 
Yes , they just fancy them and no more . 
The chemist remarked the other day that children are like certain salts which need not be actualized because the formulae are quite sufficient for practical purposes . 
I don't see how even Flavia can endure to have that man about . 
I have always been rather curious to know what Arthur thinks of it all , remarked Imogen cautiously . 
Thinks of it ! ejaculated Miss Broadwood . 
Bah ! interrupted Miss Broadwood impatiently , why did he in the first place ? That's the question . 
Marry her , you mean ? said Imogen coloring . 
Exactly so , said Miss Broadwood sharply , as she snapped the lid of her matchbox . 
I suppose that is a question rather beyond us , and certainly one which we cannot discuss , said Imogen . 
But his toleration on this one point puzzles me , quite apart from other complications . 
Toleration ? Why this point , as you call it , simply is Flavia . 
But will it end at all , now ? Such an absurd state of things can't go on indefinitely . 
A man isn't going to see his wife make a guy of herself forever , is he ? Chaos has already begun in the servants' quarters . 
There are six different languages spoken there now . 
You see , it's all on an entirely false basis . 
Flavia hasn't the slightest notion of what these people are really like , their good and their bad alike escape her . 
They , on the other hand , can't imagine what she is driving at . 
There you have the situation . 
Why can't he see her as we do ? My dear , that has kept me awake o' nights . 
This man who has thought so much and lived so much , who is naturally a critic , really takes Flavia at very nearly her own estimate . 
But now I am entering upon a wilderness . 
From a brief acquaintance with her you can know nothing of the icy fastnesses of Flavia's self esteem . 
Peter's you can't realize its magnitude at once . 
You have to grow into a sense of it by living under its shadow . 
It has perplexed even Emile Roux , that merciless dissector of egoism . 
Then , in the name of goodness , why does she bother ? gasped Imogen . 
She is pretty , wealthy , well established why should she bother ? That's what M. Roux has kept asking himself . 
I can't pretend to analyze it . 
She reads papers on the Literary Landmarks of Paris , the Loves of the Poets , and that sort of thing , to clubs out in Chicago . 
To Flavia it is more necessary to be called clever than to breathe . 
I would give a good deal to know that glum Frenchman's diagnosis . 
He has been watching her out of those fishy eyes of his as a biologist watches a hemisphereless frog . 
For several days after M. Roux's departure Flavia gave an embarrassing share of her attention to Imogen . 
Embarrassing , because Imogen had the feeling of being energetically and futilely explored , she knew not for what . 
She felt herself under the globe of an air pump , expected to yield up something . 
One has no right to accept their best from people unless one gives , isn't it so ? I want to be able to give ! she declared vaguely . 
I'm sure I don't know what it is that she wants of me . 
Ah , chuckled Jemima , you are not equal to these heart to heart talks with Flavia . 
You utterly fail to communicate to her the atmosphere of that untroubled joy in which you dwell . 
You must remember that she gets no feeling out of things herself , and she demands that you impart yours to her by some process of psychic transmission . 
I once met a blind girl , blind from birth , who could discuss the peculiarities of the Barbizon school with just Flavia's glibness and enthusiasm . 
Ordinarily Flavia knows how to get what she wants from people , and her memory is wonderful . 
After some days of unsuccessful effort , Flavia withdrew herself , and Imogen found Hamilton ready to catch her when she was tossed afield . 
He seemed only to have been awaiting this crisis , and at once their old intimacy reestablished itself as a thing inevitable and beautifully prepared for . 
Herr Schotte and Restzhoff sat on the window seat with a newspaper between them , while Wellington , Schemetzkin , and Will Maidenwood looked over their shoulders . 
They seemed intensely interested , Herr Schotte occasionally pounding his knees with his fists in ebullitions of barbaric glee . 
When imogen entered the hall , however , the men were all sauntering toward the breakfast room and the paper was lying innocently on the divan . 
Will Maidenwood seemed embarrassed and annoyed the chemist employed himself with making polite speeches to Hamilton . 
Flavia did not come down to lunch and there was a malicious gleam under Herr Schotte's eyebrows . 
Frank Wellington announced nervously that an imperative letter from his protecting syndicate summoned him to the city . 
After luncheon the men went to the golf links , and Imogen , at the first opportunity , possessed herself of the newspaper which had been left on the divan . 
One of the first things that caught her eye was an article headed Roux on Tuft Hunters The Advanced American Woman as He Sees Her Aggressive , Superficial , and Insincere . 
The entire interview was nothing more nor less than a satiric characterization of Flavia , aquiver with irritation and vitriolic malice . 
No one could mistake it it was done with all his deftness of portraiture . 
Imogen had not finished the article when she heard a footstep , and clutching the paper she started precipitately toward the stairway as Arthur entered . 
He put out his hand , looking critically at her distressed face . 
Wait a moment , Miss Willard , he said peremptorily , I want to see whether we can find what it was that so interested our friends this morning . 
Give me the paper , please . 
Imogen grew quite white as he opened the journal . 
She reached forward and crumpled it with her hands . 
Please don't , please don't , she pleaded it's something I don't want you to see . 
Oh , why will you ? it's just something low and despicable that you can't notice . 
Arthur had gently loosed her hands , and he pointed her to a chair . 
He lit a cigar and read the article through without comment . 
When he had finished it he walked to the fireplace , struck a match , and tossed the flaming journal between the brass andirons . 
You are right , he remarked as he came back , dusting his hands with his handkerchief . 
It's quite impossible to comment . 
There are extremes of blackguardism for which we have no name . 
The only thing necessary is to see that Flavia gets no wind of this . 
This seems to be my cue to act poor girl . 
Imogen looked at him tearfully she could only murmur , Oh , why did you read it ! Hamilton laughed spiritlessly . 
Come , don't you worry about it . 
You always took other people's troubles too seriously . 
When you were little and all the world was gay and everybody happy , you must needs get the Little Mermaid's troubles to grieve over . 
Come with me into the music room . 
How I wish I could give you some of the cake that Alice ate and make you a little girl again . 
What a pity it is that you ever grew up ! he added , laughing and Imogen , too , was thinking just that . 
At dinner that evening , Flavia , with fatal persistence , insisted upon turning the conversation to M. Roux . 
She had been reading one of his novels and had remembered anew that Paris set its watches by his clock . 
Imogen surmised that she was tortured by a feeling that she had not sufficiently appreciated him while she had had him . 
When she first mentioned his name she was answered only by the pall of silence that fell over the company . 
Then everyone began to talk at once , as though to correct a false position . 
They spoke of him with a fervid , defiant admiration , with the sort of hot praise that covers a double purpose . 
She was reminded of the fury of the crowd in the fairy tale , when once the child had called out that the king was in his night clothes . 
Surely these people knew no more about Flavia than they had known before , but the mere fact that the thing had been said altered the situation . 
Flavia , meanwhile , sat chattering amiably , pathetically unconscious of her nakedness . 
Hamilton lounged , fingering the stem of his wineglass , gazing down the table at one face after another and studying the various degrees of self consciousness they exhibited . 
Imogen's eyes followed his , fearfully . 
Fortunately for Flavia , this mine was not exploded until just before the coffee was brought . 
After dinner the guests retired immediately to their rooms , and Imogen went upstairs on tiptoe , feeling the echo of breakage and the dust of crumbling in the air . 
She wondered whether Flavia's habitual note of uneasiness were not , in a manner , prophetic , and a sort of unconscious premonition , after all . 
She sat down to write a letter , but she found herself so nervous , her head so hot and her hands so cold , that she soon abandoned the effort . 
just as she was about to seek Miss Broadwood , Flavia entered and embraced her hysterically . 
My dear , you have no idea what that speech has done . 
Schemetzkin and Herr Schotte have already sent me word that they must leave us tomorrow . 
Such a thing from a host ! Flavia paused , choked by tears of vexation and despair . 
Imogen was thoroughly disconcerted this was the first time she had ever seen Flavia betray any personal emotion which was indubitably genuine . 
She replied with what consolation she could . 
Ah , my dear , you could not be i expected i to understand . 
You can't realize , knowing Arthur as you do , his entire lack of any aesthetic sense whatever . 
He is absolutely i nil i , stone deaf and stark blind , on that side . 
He doesn't mean to be brutal , it is just the brutality of utter ignorance . 
They always feel it they are so sensitive to unsympathetic influences , you know they know it the moment they come into the house . 
I have spent my life apologizing for him and struggling to conceal it but in spite of me , he wounds them his very attitude , even in silence , offends them . 
It was neither more personal nor more extravagant than many of M. Roux's remarks . 
But , Imogen , certainly M. Roux has the right . 
It is a part of his art , and that is altogether another matter . 
Oh , this is not the only instance ! continued Flavia passionately , I've always had that narrow , bigoted prejudice to contend with . 
It has always held me back . 
But this ! I think you mistake his attitude , replied Imogen , feeling a flush that made her ears tingle . 
That is , I fancy he is more appreciative than he seems . 
A man can't be very demonstrative about those things not if he is a real man . 
I should not think you would care much about saving the feelings of people who are too narrow to admit of any other point of view than their own . 
Flavia took her hand and glanced at her affectionately , nodding nervously . 
Of course , dear girl , I can't ask you to be quite frank with me . 
Poor child , you are trembling and your hands are icy . 
Poor Arthur ! But you must not judge him by this altogether think how much he misses in life . 
What a cruel shock you've had . 
I'll send you some sherry , Good night , my dear . 
When Flavia shut the door Imogen burst into a fit of nervous weeping . 
Next morning she awoke after a troubled and restless night . 
At eight o'clock Miss Broadwood entered in a red and white striped bathrobe . 
Up , up , and see the great doom's image ! she cried , her eyes sparkling with excitement . 
The hall is full of trunks , they are packing . 
Imogen , rising on her elbow , plunged excitedly into the story of the Roux interview , which Miss Broadwood heard with the keenest interest , frequently interrupting her with exclamations of delight . 
Of course he didn't ! He bared his back to the tormentor , signed himself over to punishment in that speech he made at dinner , which everyone understands but Flavia . 
She was here for an hour last night and disregarded every limit of taste in her maledictions . 
My dear ! cried Miss Broadwood , catching her hand in inordinate delight at the situation , do you see what he has done ? There'll be no end to it . 
If you could have heard that woman talk of him ! Why , she thinks him stupid , bigoted , blinded by middleclass prejudices . 
She talked about his having no aesthetic sense and insisted that her artists had always shown him tolerance . 
I don't know why it should get on my nerves so , I'm sure , but her stupidity and assurance are enough to drive one to the brink of collapse . 
Yes , as opposed to his singular fineness , they are calculated to do just that , said Miss Broadwood gravely , wisely ignoring Imogen's tears . 
But what has been is nothing to what will be . 
Just wait until Flavia's black swans have flown ! You ought not to try to stick it out that would only make it harder for everyone . 
Suppose you let me telephone your mother to wire you to come home by the evening train ? Anything , rather than have her come at me like that again . 
I will stay because such things interest me , and Frau Lichtenfeld will stay because she has no money to get away , and Buisson will stay because he feels somewhat responsible . 
Miss Broadwood's counsel was all the more generous seeing that , for her , the most interesting element of this denouement would be eliminated by Imogen's departure . 
If she goes now , she'll get over it , soliloquized Miss Broadwood . 
If she stays , she'll be wrung for him and the hurt may go deep enough to last . 
I haven't the heart to see her spoiling things for herself . 
She telephoned Mrs. Willard and helped Imogen to pack . 
She even took it upon herself to break the news of Imogen's going to Arthur , who remarked , as he rolled a cigarette in his nerveless fingers Right enough , too . 
You've been very tender of her , haven't you ? I've watched you . 
And to think it may all be gone when we see her next . 
'The common fate of all things rare , you know . 
What a good fellow you are , anyway , Jimmy , he added , putting his hands affectionately on her shoulders . 
Arthur went with them to the station . 
On the way to the station both Arthur and Imogen threw the burden of keeping up appearances entirely upon Miss Broadwood , who blithely rose to the occasion . 
The Sculptor's Funeral A group of the townspeople stood on the station siding of a little Kansas town , awaiting the coming of the night train , which was already twenty minutes overdue . 
They conversed in low tones and moved about restlessly , seeming uncertain as to what was expected of them . 
I reckon she's agoin' to be pretty late ag'in tonight , Jim , he remarked in a squeaky falsetto . 
The spare man shifted the quill toothpick he was chewing to the other side of his mouth . 
It ain't likely that anybody from the East will come with the corpse , I s'pose , he went on reflectively . 
I don't know , responded the other , more curtly than before . 
It's too bad he didn't belong to some lodge or other . 
I like an order funeral myself . 
He always carried the flag at the G. A. R. funerals in the town . 
The heavy man turned on his heel , without replying , and walked up the siding . 
The spare man shuffled back to the uneasy group . 
Jim's ez full ez a tick , ez ushel , he commented commiseratingly . 
Just then a distant whistle sounded , and there was a shuffling of feet on the platform . 
Two clambered down from the driver's seat of a hearse that stood backed up against the siding . 
They straightened their stooping shoulders and lifted their heads , and a flash of momentary animation kindled their dull eyes at that cold , vibrant scream , the world wide call for men . 
It stirred them like the note of a trumpet just as it had often stirred the man who was coming home tonight , in his boyhood . 
In a moment the red glare from the headlight streamed up the snow covered track before the siding and glittered on the wet , black rails . 
The burly man with the disheveled red beard walked swiftly up the platform toward the approaching train , uncovering his head as he went . 
The group of men behind him hesitated , glanced questioningly at one another , and awkwardly followed his example . 
The express messenger appeared in the doorway , accompanied by a young man in a long ulster and traveling cap . 
Are Mr. Merrick's friends here ? inquired the young man . 
The group on the platform swayed and shuffled uneasily . 
Philip Phelps , the banker , responded with dignity We have come to take charge of the body . 
Mr. Merrick's father is very feeble and can't be about . 
Send the agent out here , growled the express messenger , and tell the operator to lend a hand . 
The coffin was got out of its rough box and down on the snowy platform . 
The townspeople drew back enough to make room for it and then formed a close semicircle about it , looking curiously at the palm leaf which lay across the black cover . 
The baggage man stood by his truck , waiting to get at the trunks . 
The engine panted heavily , and the fireman dodged in and out among the wheels with his yellow torch and long oilcan , snapping the spindle boxes . 
The young Bostonian , one of the dead sculptor's pupils who had come with the body , looked about him helplessly . 
He turned to the banker , the only one of that black , uneasy , stoop shouldered group who seemed enough of an individual to be addressed . 
None of Mr. Merrick's brothers are here ? he asked uncertainly . 
The man with the red heard for the first time stepped up and joined the group . 
No , they have not come yet the family is scattered . 
The body will be taken directly to the house . 
He stooped and took hold of one of the handles of the coffin . 
Laird , the red bearded lawyer , turned again to the stranger We didn't know whether there would be anyone with him or not , he explained . 
It's a long walk , so you'd better go up in the hack . 
He pointed to a single , battered conveyance , but the young man replied stiffly Thank you , but I think I will go up with the hearse . 
If you don't object , turning to the undertaker , I'll ride with you . 
They clambered up over the wheels and drove off in the starlight tip the long , white hill toward the town . 
The front yard was an icy swamp , and a couple of warped planks , extending from the sidewalk to the door , made a sort of rickety footbridge . 
The gate hung on one hinge and was opened wide with difficulty . 
Steavens , the young stranger , noticed that something black was tied to the knob of the front door . 
The bearers carried the coffin along the narrow boards , while the undertaker ran ahead with the coffin rests . 
Henry Steavens stared about him with the sickening conviction that there had been some horrible mistake , and that he had somehow arrived at the wrong destination . 
Take the lid off , Mr. Thompson let me see my boy's face , wailed the elder woman between her sobs . 
This time Steavens looked fearfully , almost beseechingly into her face , red and swollen under its masses of strong , black , shiny hair . 
He flushed , dropped his eyes , and then , almost incredulously , looked again . 
She filled the room the men were obliterated , seemed tossed about like twigs in an angry water , and even Steavens felt himself being drawn into the whirlpool . 
Near the door stood a mulatto woman , evidently a servant in the house , with a timid bearing and an emaciated face pitifully sad and gentle . 
She was weeping silently , the corner of her calico apron lifted to her eyes , occasionally suppressing a long , quivering sob . 
Steavens walked over and stood beside her . 
There , there , Annie , dear , don't take on so , he quavered timidly , putting out a shaking hand and awkwardly patting her elbow . 
She turned with a cry and sank upon his shoulder with such violence that he tottered a little . 
He did not even glance toward the coffin , but continued to look at her with a dull , frightened , appealing expression , as a spaniel looks at the whip . 
His sunken cheeks slowly reddened and burned with miserable shame . 
When his wife rushed from the room her daughter strode after her with set lips . 
The old man stood trembling and looking down at his dead son's face . 
The sculptor's splendid head seemed even more noble in its rigid stillness than in life . 
The brows were so drawn that there were two deep lines above the beaked nose , and the chin was thrust forward defiantly . 
The old man's lips were working under his stained beard . 
He turned to the lawyer with timid deference Phelps and the rest are comin' back to set up with Harve , ain't they ? he asked . 
Thank 'ee , Jim , thank 'ee . 
He brushed the hair back gently from his son's forehead . 
He was a good boy , Jim always a good boy . 
He was ez gentle ez a child and the kindest of 'em all only we didn't none of us ever onderstand him . 
The tears trickled slowly down his beard and dropped upon the sculptor's coat . 
Oh , Martin ! come here , his wife wailed from the top of the stairs . 
The old man started timorously Yes , Annie , I'm coming . 
He turned away , hesitated stood for a moment in miserable indecision then he reached back and patted the dead man's hair softly , and stumbled from the room . 
Poor old man , I didn't think he had any tears left . 
Seems as if his eyes would have gone dry long ago . 
At his age nothing cuts very deep , remarked the lawyer . 
Something in his tone made Steavens glance up . 
The man was red as his beard , with features swollen and blurred by dissipation , and a hot , blazing blue eye . 
His face was strained that of a man who is controlling himself with difficulty and he kept plucking at his beard with a sort of fierce resentment . 
He could not help wondering what link there could have been between the porcelain vessel and so sooty a lump of potter's clay . 
From the kitchen an uproar was sounding when the dining room door opened the import of it was clear . 
The mother was abusing the maid for having forgotten to make the dressing for the chicken salad which had been prepared for the watchers . 
With a shudder of disgust the lawyer went into the dining room and closed the door into the kitchen . 
Poor Roxy's getting it now , he remarked when he came back . 
The Merricks took her out of the poorhouse years ago and if her loyalty would let her , I guess the poor old thing could tell tales that would curdle your blood . 
She's the mulatto woman who was standing in here a while ago , with her apron to her eyes . 
The old woman is a fury there never was anybody like her for demonstrative piety and ingenious cruelty . 
She made Harvey's life a hell for him when he lived at home he was so sick ashamed of it . 
I never could see how he kept himself so sweet . 
He was wonderful , said Steavens slowly , wonderful but until tonight I have never known how wonderful . 
I think I'll see whether I can get a little air . 
The room is so close I am beginning to feel rather faint , murmured Steavens , struggling with one of the windows . 
The sash was stuck , however , and would not yield , so he sat down dejectedly and began pulling at his collar . 
The lawyer came over , loosened the sash with one blow of his red fist , and sent the window up a few inches . 
Steavens , impressed by the tender and delicate modeling of the thin , tired face , had asked him if it were his mother . 
He remembered the dull flush that had burned up in the sculptor's face . 
The lawyer was sitting in a rocking chair beside the coffin , his head thrown back and his eyes closed . 
Steavens looked at him earnestly , puzzled at the line of the chin , and wondering why a man should conceal a feature of such distinction under that disfiguring shock of beard . 
Suddenly , as though he felt the young sculptor's keen glance , he opened his eyes . 
Was he always a good deal of an oyster ? he asked abruptly . 
He was terribly shy as a boy . 
Yes , he was an oyster , since you put it so , rejoined Steavens . 
Although he could be very fond of people , he always gave one the impression of being detached . 
He disliked violent emotion he was reflective , and rather distrustful of himself except , of course , as regarded his work . 
He was surefooted enough there . 
He distrusted men pretty thoroughly and women even more , yet somehow without believing ill of them . 
He was determined , indeed , to believe the best , but he seemed afraid to investigate . 
A burnt dog dreads the fire , said the lawyer grimly , and closed his eyes . 
Steavens went on and on , reconstructing that whole miserable boyhood . 
Surely , if ever a man had the magic word in his fingertips , it was Merrick . 
Whatever he touched , he revealed its holiest secret liberated it from enchantment and restored it to its pristine loveliness , like the Arabian prince who fought the enchantress spell for spell . 
At eleven o'clock the tall , flat woman in black crepe entered , announced that the watchers were arriving , and asked them to step into the dining room . 
As Steavens closed the door after him be glanced back at the lawyer , sitting by the coffin in the dim light , with his chin resting on his hand . 
The same misty group that had stood before the door of the express car shuffled into the dining room . 
In the light of the kerosene lamp they separated and became individuals . 
The minister , a pale , feeble looking man with white hair and blond chin whiskers , took his seat beside a small side table and placed his Bible upon it . 
The Grand Army man sat down behind the stove and tilted his chair back comfortably against the wall , fishing his quill toothpick from his waistcoat pocket . 
The real estate agent , an old man with a smiling , hypocritical face , soon joined them . 
The coal and lumber dealer and the cattle shipper sat on opposite sides of the hard coal burner , their feet on the nickelwork . 
Steavens took a book from his pocket and began to read . 
The talk around him ranged through various topics of local interest while the house was quieting down . 
S'pose there'll be a will , Phelps ? he queried in his weak falsetto . 
The banker laughed disagreeably and began trimming his nails with a pearl handled pocketknife . 
There'll scarcely be any need for one , will there ? he queried in his turn . 
The restless Grand Army man shifted his position again , getting his knees still nearer his chin . 
Why , the ole man says Harve's done right well lately , he chirped . 
The other banker spoke up . 
I reckon he means by that Harve ain't asked him to mortgage any more farms lately , so as he could go on with his education . 
Seems like my mind don't reach back to a time when Harve wasn't bein' edycated , tittered the Grand Army man . 
There was a general chuckle . 
The minister took out his handkerchief and blew his nose sonorously . 
Banker Phelps closed his knife with a snap . 
It's too bad the old man's sons didn't turn out better , he remarked with reflective authority . 
He spent money enough on Harve to stock a dozen cattle farms and he might as well have poured it into Sand Creek . 
If Harve had stayed at home and helped nurse what little they had , and gone into stock on the old man's bottom farm , they might all have been well fixed . 
But the old man had to trust everything to tenants and was cheated right and left . 
Harve never could have handled stock none , interposed the cattleman . 
He hadn't it in him to be sharp . 
Everyone chuckled , and the Grand Army man rubbed his knees with a spasm of childish delight . 
Harve never was much account for anything practical , and he shore was never fond of work , began the coal and lumber dealer . 
That's Harve for you , approved the Grand Army man gleefully . 
He killed a cow of mine that a way onc't a pure Jersey and the best milker I had , an' the ole man had to put up for her . 
Harve , he was watchin' the sun set acros't the marshes when the anamile got away he argued that sunset was oncommon fine . 
Where the old man made his mistake was in sending the boy East to school , said Phelps , stroking his goatee and speaking in a deliberate , judicial tone . 
There was where he got his head full of traipsing to Paris and all such folly . 
What Harve needed , of all people , was a course in some first class Kansas City business college . 
The letters were swimming before Steavens's eyes . 
The townspeople will come in for a look at me and after they have had their say I shan't have much to fear from the judgment of God . 
The wings of the Victory , in there with a weak gesture toward his studio will not shelter me . 
The cattleman took up the comment . 
Forty's young for a Merrick to cash in they usually hang on pretty well . 
Probably he helped it along with whisky . 
His mother's people were not long lived , and Harvey never had a robust constitution , said the minister mildly . 
He would have liked to say more . 
He had been the boy's Sunday school teacher , and had been fond of him but he felt that he was not in a position to speak . 
Just then the door leading into the parlor rattled loudly , and everyone started involuntarily , looking relieved when only Jim Laird came out . 
His red face was convulsed with anger , and the Grand Army man ducked his head when he saw the spark in his blue , bloodshot eye . 
The lawyer closed the door gently behind him , leaned back against it and folded his arms , cocking his head a little to one side . 
When he assumed this attitude in the courtroom , ears were always pricked up , as it usually foretold a flood of withering sarcasm . 
But maybe I'm getting personal , and I'd better be driving ahead at what I want to say . 
The lawyer paused a moment , squared his heavy shoulders , and went on Harvey Merrick and I went to school together , back East . 
We were dead in earnest , and we wanted you all to be proud of us some day . 
We meant to be great men . 
Even , and I haven't lost my sense of humor , gentlemen , I meant to be a great man . 
I came back here to practice , and I found you didn't in the least want me to be a great man . 
Oh , you needed me hard enough , and you'll go on needing me and that's why I'm not afraid to plug the truth home to you this once . 
Well , I came back here and became the damned shyster you wanted me to be . 
You pretend to have some sort of respect for me and yet you'll stand up and throw mud at Harvey Merrick , whose soul you couldn't dirty and whose hands you couldn't tie . 
Next day Jim Laird was drunk and unable to attend the funeral services . 
Steavens called twice at his office , but was compelled to start East without seeing him . 
He had a presentiment that he would hear from him again , and left his address on the lawyer's table but if Laird found it , he never acknowledged it . 
A Death in the Desert Everett Hilgarde was conscious that the man in the seat across the aisle was looking at him intently . 
He was a large , florid man , wore a conspicuous diamond solitaire upon his third finger , and Everett judged him to be a traveling salesman of some sort . 
He had the air of an adaptable fellow who had been about the world and who could keep cool and clean under almost any circumstances . 
The High Line Flyer , as this train was derisively called among railroad men , was jerking along through the hot afternoon over the monotonous country between Holdridge and Cheyenne . 
The four uncomfortable passengers were covered with a sediment of fine , yellow dust which clung to their hair and eyebrows like gold powder . 
It blew up in clouds from the bleak , lifeless country through which they passed , until they were one color with the sagebrush and sandhills . 
But wherever Everett went someone was almost sure to look at him with that curious interest , and it had ceased to embarrass or annoy him . 
There was literally no way of escaping his brother's precocity . 
Everett unbent a trifle and smiled at his neighbor across the aisle . 
Immediately the large man rose and , coming over , dropped into the seat facing Hilgarde , extending his card . 
Dusty ride , isn't it ? I don't mind it myself I'm used to it . 
Born and bred in de briar patch , like Br'er Rabbit . 
I've been trying to place you for a long time I think I must have met you before . 
Thank you , said Everett , taking the card my name is Hilgarde . 
You've probably met my brother , Adriance people often mistake me for him . 
The traveling man brought his hand down upon his knee with such vehemence that the solitaire blazed . 
So I was right after all , and if you're not Adriance Hilgarde , you're his double . 
I thought I couldn't be mistaken . 
I used to be on the i Commercial i there before I i i began to travel for the publishing department of the concern . 
So you're Hilgarde's brother , and here I've run into you at the jumping off place . 
At length the salesman and the two girls alighted at a Colorado way station , and Everett went on to Cheyenne alone . 
When Everett alighted from the train he walked down the platform and stopped at the track crossing , uncertain as to what direction he should take to reach a hotel . 
A phaeton stood near the crossing , and a woman held the reins . 
She was dressed in white , and her figure was clearly silhouetted against the cushions , though it was too dark to see her face . 
Everett had scarcely noticed her , when the switch engine came puffing up from the opposite direction , and the headlight threw a strong glare of light on his face . 
Suddenly the woman in the phaeton uttered a low cry and dropped the reins . 
Everett started forward and caught the horse's head , but the animal only lifted its ears and whisked its tail in impatient surprise . 
The woman sat perfectly still , her head sunk between her shoulders and her handkerchief pressed to her face . 
He was accustomed to sudden recognitions in the most impossible places , especially by women , but this cry out of the night had shaken him . 
While Everett was breakfasting the next morning , the headwaiter leaned over his chair to murmur that there was a gentleman waiting to see him in the parlor . 
Everett finished his coffee and went in the direction indicated , where he found his visitor restlessly pacing the floor . 
His whole manner betrayed a high degree of agitation , though his physique was not that of a man whose nerves lie near the surface . 
He was something below medium height , square shouldered and solidly built . 
His thick , closely cut hair was beginning to show gray about the ears , and his bronzed face was heavily lined . 
Good morning , Mr. Hilgarde , he said , extending his hand I found your name on the hotel register . 
I'm afraid my sister startled you at the station last night , Mr. Hilgarde , and I've come around to apologize . 
Ah ! The young lady in the phaeton ? I'm sure I didn't know whether I had anything to do with her alarm or not . 
If I did , it is I who owe the apology . 
The man colored a little under the dark brown of his face . 
Oh , it's nothing you could help , sir , I fully understand that . 
Everett wheeled about in his chair . 
Oh ! i Katharine i Gaylord ! Is it possible ! Now it's you who have given me a turn . 
Why , I used to know her when I was a boy . 
What on earth Is she doing here ? said Gaylord , grimly filling out the pause . 
You've got at the heart of the matter . 
You knew my sister had been in bad health for a long time ? No , I had never heard a word of that . 
The last I knew of her she was singing in London . 
My brother and I correspond infrequently and seldom get beyond family matters . 
I am deeply sorry to hear this . 
There are more reasons why I am concerned than I can tell you . 
The lines in Charley Gaylord's brow relaxed a little . 
What I'm trying to say , Mr. Hilgarde , is that she wants to see you . 
I hate to ask you , but she's so set on it . 
We live several miles out of town , but my rig's below , and I can take you out anytime you can go . 
I can go now , and it will give me real pleasure to do so , said Everett , quickly . 
I'll get my hat and be with you in a moment . 
You see , I think I'd better tell you something about my sister before you see her , and I don't know just where to begin . 
She traveled in Europe with your brother and his wife , and sang at a lot of his concerts but I don't know just how much you know about her . 
Everett saw that Gaylord's mind was quite engrossed by his grief . 
He was wrought up to the point where his reserve and sense of proportion had quite left him , and his trouble was the one vital thing in the world . 
That's the whole thing , he went on , flicking his horses with the whip . 
She was a great woman , as you say , and she didn't come of a great family . 
She had to fight her own way from the first . 
We've grown apart , some way miles and miles apart and I'm afraid she's fearfully unhappy . 
It's a very tragic story that you are telling me , Gaylord , said Everett . 
They were well out into the country now , spinning along over the dusty plains of red grass , with the ragged blue outline of the mountains before them . 
Tragic ! cried Gaylord , starting up in his seat , my God , man , nobody will ever know how tragic . 
It's a tragedy I live with and eat with and sleep with , until I've lost my grip on everything . 
You see she had made a good bit of money , but she spent it all going to health resorts . 
It's her lungs , you know . 
I've got money enough to send her anywhere , but the doctors all say it's no use . 
She hasn't the ghost of a chance . 
It's just getting through the days now . 
I had no notion she was half so bad before she came to me . 
She just wrote that she was all run down . 
Now that she's here , I think she'd be happier anywhere under the sun , but she won't leave . 
She says it's easier to let go of life here , and that to go East would be dying twice . 
Presently Gaylord went on You can understand how she has outgrown her family . 
We're all a pretty common sort , railroaders from away back . 
My father was a conductor . 
He died when we were kids . 
Maggie , my other sister , who lives with me , was a telegraph operator here while I was getting my grip on things . 
We had no education to speak of . 
I have to hire a stenographer because I can't spell straight the Almighty couldn't teach me to spell . 
The reins slackened in Charley Gaylord's hand as they drew up before a showily painted house with many gables and a round tower . 
Here we are , he said , turning to Everett , and I guess we understand each other . 
They were met at the door by a thin , colorless woman , whom Gaylord introduced as my sister , Maggie . 
She asked her brother to show Mr. Hilgarde into the music room , where Katharine wished to see him alone . 
The haunting air of familiarity about the room perplexed him . 
Suddenly his eye fell upon a large photograph of his brother above the piano . 
Then it all became clear to him this was veritably his brother's room . 
In every detail Adriance's taste was so manifest that the room seemed to exhale his personality . 
Even now , he stood before the portrait with a certain degree of embarrassment . 
It was the face of a woman already old in her first youth , thoroughly sophisticated and a trifle hard , and it told of what her brother had called her fight . 
The camaraderie of her frank , confident eyes was qualified by the deep lines about her mouth and the curve of the lips , which was both sad and cynical . 
Certainly she had more good will than confidence toward the world , and the bravado of her smile could not conceal the shadow of an unrest that was almost discontent . 
Her head , Everett remembered as peculiarly well shaped and proudly poised . 
Everett was still standing before the picture , his hands behind him and his head inclined , when he heard the door open . 
A very tall woman advanced toward him , holding out her hand . 
How good of you to come , Mr. Hilgarde . 
He had not reckoned upon the ravages of a long illness . 
The splendid shoulders were stooped , there was a swaying unevenness in her gait , her arms seemed disproportionately long , and her hands were transparently white and cold to the touch . 
She sat down upon the divan and began nervously to arrange the pillows . 
And if I'm a trifle irritable you won't mind ? for I'm more than usually nervous . 
Don't bother with me this morning , if you are tired , urged Everett . 
I can come quite as well tomorrow . 
Gracious , no ! she protested , with a flash of that quick , keen humor that he remembered as a part of her . 
It's solitude that I'm tired to death of solitude and the wrong kind of people . 
You see , the minister , not content with reading the prayers for the sick , called on me this morning . 
He happened to be riding by on his bicycle and felt it his duty to stop . 
Of course , he disapproves of my profession , and I think he takes it for granted that I have a dark past . 
Oh ! I'm afraid I'm not the person to call after such a serious gentleman I can't sustain the situation . 
At my best I don't reach higher than low comedy . 
I didn't study that method . 
She laughed and went on nervously The parson's not so bad . 
His English never offends me , and he has read Gibbon's i Decline and Fall i , all five volumes , and that's something . 
Then , he has been to New York , and that's a great deal . 
But how we are losing time ! Do tell me about New York Charley says you're just on from there . 
How does it look and taste and smell just now ? I think a whiff of the Jersey ferry would be as flagons of cod liver oil to me . 
Katharine was lying back among the pillows , watching him through half closed eyes , as a painter looks at a picture . 
He finished his explanation vaguely enough and put the envelope back in his pocket . 
As he did so she said , quietly How wonderfully like Adriance you are ! and he felt as though a crisis of some sort had been met and tided over . 
He laughed , looking up at her with a touch of pride in his eyes that made them seem quite boyish . 
Yes , isn't it absurd ? It's almost as awkward as looking like Napoleon but , after all , there are some advantages . 
It has made some of his friends like me , and I hope it will make you . 
Katharine smiled and gave him a quick , meaning glance from under her lashes . 
Oh , it did that long ago . 
What a haughty , reserved youth you were then , and how you used to stare at people and then blush and look cross if they paid you back in your own coin . 
Perhaps you suspected something of the sort ? I remember you saw fit to be very grown up and worldly . 
I believe I suspected a pose the one that college boys usually affect with singers 'an earthen vessel in love with a star , you know . 
But it rather surprised me in you , for you must have seen a good deal of your brother's pupils . 
But I was not so sophisticated as you imagined . 
I saw my brother's pupils come and go , but that was about all . 
But they never spent any time on me , unless it was to notice the resemblance you speak of . 
Yes , observed Katharine , thoughtfully , I noticed it then , too but it has grown as you have grown older . 
That is rather strange , when you have lived such different lives . 
But I'm not attempting to define it it's beyond me something altogether unusual and a trifle well , uncanny , she finished , laughing . 
People were naturally always fonder of Ad than of me , and I used to feel the chill of reflected light pretty often . 
It came into even my relations with my mother . 
Ad went abroad to study when he was absurdly young , you know , and mother was all broken up over it . 
She did her whole duty by each of us , but it was sort of generally understood among us that she'd have made burnt offerings of us all for Ad any day . 
Poor little chap , said Katharine , and her tone was a trifle huskier than usual . 
How fond people have always been of Adriance ! Now tell me the latest news of him . 
I haven't heard , except through the press , for a year or more . 
How many countries and faiths has be adopted , I wonder ? Probably he was playing Arab to himself all the time . 
I remember he was a sixteenth century duke in Florence once for weeks together . 
Oh , that's Adriance , chuckled Everett . 
He is himself barely long enough to write checks and be measured for his clothes . 
I didn't hear from him while he was an Arab I missed that . 
He was writing an Algerian suite for the piano then it must be in the publisher's hands by this time . 
I have been too ill to answer his letter , and have lost touch with him . 
Everett drew a letter from his pocket . 
This came about a month ago . 
It's chiefly about his new opera , which is to be brought out in London next winter . 
Read it at your leisure . 
I think I shall keep it as a hostage , so that I may be sure you will come again . 
Now I want you to play for me . 
Whatever you like but if there is anything new in the world , in mercy let me hear it . 
For nine months I have heard nothing but 'The Baggage Coach Ahead' and 'She Is My Baby's Mother . 
He sat down at the piano , and Katharine sat near him , absorbed in his remarkable physical likeness to his brother and trying to discover in just what it consisted . 
She told herself that it was very much as though a sculptor's finished work had been rudely copied in wood . 
He was of a larger build than Adriance , and his shoulders were broad and heavy , while those of his brother were slender and rather girlish . 
His face was of the same oval mold , but it was gray and darkened about the mouth by continual shaving . 
But it was hard to see why this earnest man should so continually suggest that lyric , youthful face that was as gay as his was grave . 
As Everett sat smoking on the veranda of the InterOcean House that night , he was a victim to random recollections . 
His infatuation for Katharine Gaylord , visionary as it was , had been the most serious of his boyish love affairs , and had long disturbed his bachelor dreams . 
He was painfully timid in everything relating to the emotions , and his hurt had withdrawn him from the society of women . 
He bethought himself of something he had read about sitting by the hearth and remembering the faces of women without desire , and felt himself an octogenarian . 
The footlights had seemed a hard , glittering line drawn sharply between their life and his a circle of flame set about those splendid children of genius . 
He told himself that he had in common with this woman only the baser uses of life . 
Everett's week in Cheyenne stretched to three , and he saw no prospect of release except through the thing he dreaded . 
The bright , windy days of the Wyoming autumn passed swiftly . 
Letters and telegrams came urging him to hasten his trip to the coast , but he resolutely postponed his business engagements . 
The mornings he spent on one of Charley Gaylord's ponies , or fishing in the mountains , and in the evenings he sat in his room writing letters or reading . 
In the afternoon he was usually at his post of duty . 
Destiny , he reflected , seems to have very positive notions about the sort of parts we are fitted to play . 
The scene changes and the compensation varies , but in the end we usually find that we have played the same class of business from first to last . 
Everett had been a stopgap all his life . 
It was not the first time that his duty had been to comfort , as best he could , one of the broken things his brother's imperious speed had cast aside and forgotten . 
His power to minister to her comfort , he saw , lay solely in his link with his brother's life . 
He understood all that his physical resemblance meant to her . 
He had merely said that she was mortally ill he could depend on Adriance to say the right thing that was a part of his gift . 
Adriance always said not only the right thing , but the opportune , graceful , exquisite thing . 
His phrases took the color of the moment and the then present condition , so that they never savored of perfunctory compliment or frequent usage . 
He always caught the lyric essence of the moment , the poetic suggestion of every situation . 
Three weeks after Everett had sent his cable , when he made his daily call at the gaily painted ranch house , he found Katharine laughing like a schoolgirl . 
You are the kindest man living the kindest , she added , softly . 
Everett's gray face colored faintly as he drew his hand away , for he felt that this time she was looking at him and not at a whimsical caricature of his brother . 
Why , what have I done now ? he asked , lamely . 
I can't remember having sent you any stale candy or champagne since yesterday . 
She drew a letter with a foreign postmark from between the leaves of a book and held it out , smiling . 
You got him to write it . 
Don't say you didn't , for it came direct , you see , and the last address I gave him was a place in Florida . 
This deed shall be remembered of you when I am with the just in Paradise . 
But one thing you did not ask him to do , for you didn't know about it . 
But first for the letter I think you would better read it aloud to me . 
Everett sat down in a low chair facing the window seat in which she reclined with a barricade of pillows behind her . 
The letter was from Granada , written in the Alhambra , as he sat by the fountain of the Patio di Lindaraxa . 
The sky was one great turquoise , heated until it glowed . 
The wonderful Moorish arches threw graceful blue shadows all about him . 
He had sketched an outline of them on the margin of his notepaper . 
The subtleties of Arabic decoration had cast an unholy spell over him , and the brutal exaggerations of Gothic art were a bad dream , easily forgotten . 
As Everett folded the letter he felt that Adriance had divined the thing needed and had risen to it in his own wonderful way . 
The letter was consistently egotistical and seemed to him even a trifle patronizing , yet it was just what she had wanted . 
Then he looked down at this white , burnt out brand that lay before him . 
Like him , isn't it ? she said , quietly . 
I think I can scarcely answer his letter , but when you see him next you can do that for me . 
Do you understand me ? I know perfectly well what you mean , answered Everett , thoughtfully . 
I have often felt so about him myself . 
And yet it's difficult to prescribe for those fellows so little makes , so little mars . 
Katharine raised herself upon her elbow , and her face flushed with feverish earnestness . 
Ah , but it is the waste of himself that I mean his lashing himself out on stupid and uncomprehending people until they take him at their own estimate . 
He can kindle marble , strike fire from putty , but is it worth what it costs him ? Come , come , expostulated Everett , alarmed at her excitement . 
Where is the new sonata ? Let him speak for himself . 
He sat down at the piano and began playing the first movement , which was indeed the voice of Adriance , his proper speech . 
The sonata was the most ambitious work he had done up to that time and marked the transition from his purely lyric vein to a deeper and nobler style . 
Everett played intelligently and with that sympathetic comprehension which seems peculiar to a certain lovable class of men who never accomplish anything in particular . 
When he had finished he turned to Katharine . 
How he has grown ! she cried . 
This is the tragedy of effort and failure , the thing Keats called hell . 
This is my tragedy , as I lie here spent by the racecourse , listening to the feet of the runners as they pass me . 
Ah , God ! The swift feet of the runners ! She turned her face away and covered it with her straining hands . 
Everett crossed over to her quickly and knelt beside her . 
In all the days he had known her she had never before , beyond an occasional ironical jest , given voice to the bitterness of her own defeat . 
Her courage had become a point of pride with him , and to see it going sickened him . 
Don't do it , he gasped . 
I can't stand it , I really can't , I feel it too much . 
We mustn't speak of that it's too tragic and too vast . 
When she turned her face back to him there was a ghost of the old , brave , cynical smile on it , more bitter than the tears she could not shed . 
No , I won't be so ungenerous I will save that for the watches of the night when I have no better company . 
Now you may mix me another drink of some sort . 
But broken music boxes may drink whatsoever they list , and no one cares whether they lose their figure . 
Run over that theme at the beginning again . 
That , at least , is not new . 
It was running in his head when we were in Venice years ago , and he used to drum it on his glass at the dinner table . 
His wife was hurrying to him from Paris , but I reached him first . 
I arrived at dusk , in a terrific storm . 
They had taken an old palace there for the winter , and I found him in the library a long , dark room full of old Latin books and heavy furniture and bronzes . 
Ah , it is so good that you i do i know ! Even his red smoking jacket lent no color to his face . 
i She gave the old line with a certain bitter humor , and with the hard , bright smile in which of old she had wrapped her weakness as in a glittering garment . 
Everett dropped his head upon his hand and sat looking at the rug . 
How much you have cared ! he said . 
I used to want to shriek it out to the world in the long nights when I could not sleep . 
It seemed to me that I could not die with it . 
It demanded some sort of expression . 
And now that you know , you would scarcely believe how much less sharp the anguish of it is . 
Everett continued to look helplessly at the floor . 
I was not sure how much you wanted me to know , he said . 
Oh , I intended you should know from the first time I looked into your face , when you came that day with Charley . 
I flatter myself that I have been able to conceal it when I chose , though I suppose women always think that . 
The more observing ones may have seen , but discerning people are usually discreet and often kind , for we usually bleed a little before we begin to discern . 
But I wanted you to know you are so like him that it is almost like telling him himself . 
At least , I feel now that he will know some day , and then I will be quite sacred from his compassion , for we none of us dare pity the dead . 
Since it was what my life has chiefly meant , I should like him to know . 
On the whole I am not ashamed of it . 
I have fought a good fight . 
And has he never known at all ? asked Everett , in a thick voice . 
Oh ! Never at all in the way that you mean . 
He has a genuine fondness for everyone who is not stupid or gloomy , or old or preternaturally ugly . 
Granted youth and cheerfulness , and a moderate amount of wit and some tact , and Adriance will always be glad to see you coming around the corner . 
I shared with the rest shared the smiles and the gallantries and the droll little sermons . 
It was quite like a Sunday school picnic we wore our best clothes and a smile and took our turns . 
It was his kindness that was hardest . 
I have pretty well used my life up at standing punishment . 
Don't you'll make me hate him , groaned Everett . 
Katharine laughed and began to play nervously with her fan . 
It wasn't in the slightest degree his fault that is the most grotesque part of it . 
Why , it had really begun before I ever met him . 
I fought my way to him , and I drank my doom greedily enough . 
Everett rose and stood hesitating . 
I think I must go . 
You ought to be quiet , and I don't think I can hear any more just now . 
She put out her hand and took his playfully . 
Everett knelt beside her , saying , brokenly I stayed because I wanted to be with you , that's all . 
I have never cared about other women since I met you in New York when I was a lad . 
You are a part of my destiny , and I could not leave you if I would . 
She put her hands on his shoulders and shook her head . 
No , no don't tell me that . 
I have seen enough of tragedy , God knows . 
Don't show me any more just as the curtain is going down . 
No , no , it was only a boy's fancy , and your divine pity and my utter pitiableness have recalled it for a moment . 
One does not love the dying , dear friend . 
If some fancy of that sort had been left over from boyhood , this would rid you of it , and that were well . 
The courage in her eyes was like the clear light of a star to him as he went out . 
She labored under a delusion at once pitiful and merciful , thinking that she was in the Pullman on her way to New York , going back to her life and her work . 
At midnight Everett and the nurse were left alone with her . 
Poor Charley Gaylord had lain down on a couch outside the door . 
Everett sat looking at the sputtering night lamp until it made his eyes ache . 
His head dropped forward on the foot of the bed , and he sank into a heavy , distressful slumber . 
He was dreaming of Adriance's concert in Paris , and of Adriance , the troubadour , smiling and debonair , with his boyish face and the touch of silver gray in his hair . 
Down this crimson pathway came Adriance with his youthful step , leading his prima donna by the hand a dark woman this time , with Spanish eyes . 
The nurse touched him on the shoulder he started and awoke . 
She screened the lamp with her hand . 
Everett saw that Katharine was awake and conscious , and struggling a little . 
He lifted her gently on his arm and began to fan her . 
She laid her hands lightly on his hair and looked into his face with eyes that seemed never to have wept or doubted . 
Ah , dear Adriance , dear , dear , she whispered . 
Everett went to call her brother , but when they came back the madness of art was over for Katharine . 
Two days later Everett was pacing the station siding , waiting for the westbound train . 
Charley Gaylord walked beside him , but the two men had nothing to say to each other . 
As the train pulled in Everett wrung Gaylord's hand among the crowd of alighting passengers . 
The people of a German opera company , en route to the coast , rushed by them in frantic haste to snatch their breakfast during the stop . 
i Herr Gott i , Adriance , i lieber Freund i , she cried , emotionally . 
Everett quickly withdrew his arm and lifted his hat , blushing . 
Pardon me , madam , but I see that you have mistaken me for Adriance Hilgarde . 
I am his brother , he said quietly , and turning from the crestfallen singer , he hurried into the car . 
The Sound , steel blue and dotted with white sails , was splendidly seen from the windows of the lodge . 
Perhaps some of them suspected that this was exactly why she did get him , and it but nettled them the more . 
That was why , everyone said , she had married Howard Noble . 
It was not a cheerful home for a girl to grow up in . 
The son , Heinrich , a painter , Caroline's only brother , had inherited all his father's vindictive sensitiveness without his capacity for slavish application . 
Heinrich , when he worked at all , did newspaper sketches at twenty five dollars a week . 
At twenty six he shot himself in a frenzy , and the whole wretched affair had effectually shattered his mother's health and brought on the decline of which she died . 
After her mother's death Caroline assumed the management of that bankrupt establishment . 
The funeral expenses were unpaid , and Auguste's pupils had been frightened away by the shock of successive disasters and the general atmosphere of wretchedness that pervaded the house . 
Auguste himself was writing a symphonic poem , Icarus , dedicated to the memory of his son . 
Caroline was barely twenty when she was called upon to face this tangle of difficulties , but she reviewed the situation candidly . 
The house had served its time at the shrine of idealism vague , distressing , unsatisfied yearnings had brought it low enough . 
Her mother , thirty years before , had eloped and left Germany with her music teacher , to give herself over to lifelong , drudging bondage at the kitchen range . 
Ever since Caroline could remember , the law in the house had been a sort of mystic worship of things distant , intangible and unattainable . 
All these emotional pyrotechnics had ended in petty jealousies , in neglected duties , and in cowardly fear of the little grocer on the corner . 
When she came into the control of herself and the house she refused to proceed any further with her musical education . 
Her father , who had intended to make a concert pianist of her , set this down as another item in his long list of disappointments and his grievances against the world . 
She was young and pretty , and she had worn turned gowns and soiled gloves and improvised hats all her life . 
She rented a little studio away from that house of misfortune and began to give lessons . 
She managed well and was the sort of girl people liked to help . 
The bills were paid and Auguste went on composing , growing indignant only when she refused to insist that her pupils should study his compositions for the piano . 
She began to get engagements in New York to play accompaniments at song recitals . 
She dressed well , made herself agreeable , and gave herself a chance . 
There were two things she feared even more than poverty the part of one that sets up an idol and the part of one that bows down and worships it . 
When Caroline was twenty four she married Howard Noble , then a widower of forty , who had been for ten years a power in Wall Street . 
Then , for the first time , she had paused to take breath . 
It took a substantialness as unquestionable as his his money , his position , his energy , the big vigor of his robust person , to satisfy her that she was entirely safe . 
Then she relaxed a little , feeling that there was a barrier to be counted upon between her and that world of visions and quagmires and failure . 
Caroline had been married for six years when Raymond d'Esquerre came to stay with them . 
The hours he had spent in the garden lodge were hours of such concentrated study as , in his fevered life , he seldom got in anywhere . 
She had , as he told Noble , a fine appreciation of the seriousness of work . 
One evening two weeks after d'Esquerre had sailed , Caroline was in the library giving her husband an account of the work she had laid out for the gardeners . 
She superintended the care of the grounds herself . 
Her garden , indeed , had become quite a part of her a sort of beautiful adjunct , like gowns or jewels . 
It was a famous spot , and Noble was very proud of it . 
The lodge ? repeated Caroline looking at him quickly . 
Why , that seems almost a shame , doesn't it , after d'Esquerre has used it ? Noble put down his book with a smile of amusement . 
Are you going to be sentimental about it ? Why , I'd sacrifice the whole place to see that come to pass . 
But I don't believe you could do it for an hour together . 
I don't believe so , either , said his wife , smiling . 
Noble took up his book again and Caroline went into the music room to practice . 
She was not ready to have the lodge torn down . 
She had gone there for a quiet hour every day during the two weeks since d'Esquerre had left them . 
It was the sheerest sentiment she had ever permitted herself . 
She was ashamed of it , but she was childishly unwilling to let it go . 
Caroline went to bed soon after her husband , but she was not able to sleep . 
The night was close and warm , presaging storm . 
The wind had fallen , and the water slept , fixed and motionless as the sand . 
She rose and thrust her feet into slippers and , putting a dressing gown over her shoulders , opened the door of her husband's room he was sleeping soundly . 
She went into the hall and down the stairs then , leaving the house through a side door , stepped into the vine covered arbor that led to the garden lodge . 
The scent of the June roses was heavy in the still air , and the stones that paved the path felt pleasantly cool through the thin soles of her slippers . 
Caroline had the key of the lodge , and the door creaked as she opened it . 
She stepped into the long , low room radiant with the moonlight which streamed through the bow window and lay in a silvery pool along the waxed floor . 
Caroline sat down to think it all over . 
It was a mistake , she felt , ever to have asked d'Esquerre to come at all . 
She had an angry feeling that she had done it rather in self defiance , to rid herself finally of that instinctive fear of him which had always troubled and perplexed her . 
She knew that she had reckoned with herself before he came but she had been equal to so much that she had never really doubted she would be equal to this . 
And d'Esquerre was a man to reckon with . 
Caroline did not deceive herself now upon that score . 
She admitted it humbly enough , and since she had said good by to him she had not been free for a moment from the sense of his formidable power . 
There was a moment of this tonight , and Caroline rose and stood shuddering , looking about her in the blue duskiness of the silent room . 
She had not been here at night before , and the spirit of the place seemed more troubled and insistent than ever it had in the quiet of the afternoons . 
Caroline brushed her hair back from her damp forehead and went over to the bow window . 
After raising it she sat down upon the low seat . 
Yes , she knew , she knew well enough , of what absurdities this spell was woven she mocked , even while she winced . 
D'Esquerre had become the center of a movement , and the Metropolitan had become the temple of a cult . 
When he could be induced to cross the Atlantic , the opera season in New York was successful when he could not , the management lost money so much everyone knew . 
It was understood , too , that his superb art had disproportionately little to do with his peculiar position . 
Caroline understood all this tonight was not the first time that she had put it to herself so . 
D'Esquerre's arrival in the early winter was the signal for a feminine hegira toward New York . 
On the nights when he sang women flocked to the Metropolitan from mansions and hotels , from typewriter desks , schoolrooms , shops , and fitting rooms . 
They were of all conditions and complexions . 
There were the maimed , even those who came on crutches , who were pitted by smallpox or grotesquely painted by cruel birth stains . 
These , too , entered with him into enchantment . 
Stout matrons became slender girls again worn spinsters felt their cheeks flush with the tenderness of their lost youth . 
For the moment he , too , believed again , desired again , he knew not what , but something . 
But it was not in these exalted moments that Caroline had learned to fear him most . 
The storm had held off unconscionably long the air within the lodge was stifling , and without the garden waited , breathless . 
Everything seemed pervaded by a poignant distress the hush of feverish , intolerable expectation . 
The still earth , the heavy flowers , even the growing darkness , breathed the exhaustion of protracted waiting . 
Caroline felt that she ought to go that it was wrong to stay that the hour and the place were as treacherous as her own reflections . 
She rose and began to pace the floor , stepping softly , as though in fear of awakening someone , her figure , in its thin drapery , diaphanously vague and white . 
In the duet at the end of the first act she heard him clearly i Thou art the Spring for which I sighed in Winter's cold embraces . 
She had been wonderfully the mistress of herself at the time neither repellent nor acquiescent . 
i Thou art the Spring for which I sighed in Winter's cold embraces . 
i Caroline lifted her hands quickly from the keyboard , and she bowed her head in them , sobbing . 
The storm broke and the rain beat in , spattering her nightdress until she rose and lowered the windows . 
It was not enough this happy , useful , well ordered life was not enough . 
It did not satisfy , it was not even real . 
No , the other things , the shadows they were the realities . 
Her sure foundation was but made ground , after all , and the people in Klingsor's garden were more fortunate , however barren the sands from which they conjured their paradise . 
The lodge was still and silent her fit of weeping over , Caroline made no sound , and within the room , as without in the garden , was the blackness of storm . 
Only now and then a flash of lightning showed a woman's slender figure rigid on the couch , her face buried in her hands . 
Something seemed to slip from the clinging hold of her arms , and she groaned protestingly through her parted lips , following it a little way with fluttering hands . 
The dream was gone , but the feverish reality of it still pervaded her and she held it as the vibrating string holds a tone . 
In the last hour the shadows had had their way with Caroline . 
They had shown her the nothingness of time and space , of system and discipline , of closed doors and broad waters . 
Caroline closed her eyes and dropped her elbows weakly upon her knees , her shoulders sinking together . 
The horror was that it had not come from without , but from within . 
At breakfast her husband looked across the table at her with concern . 
It seems to me that you are looking rather fagged , Caroline . 
It was a beastly night to sleep . 
Why don't you go up to the mountains until this hot weather is over ? By the way , were you in earnest about letting the lodge stand ? Caroline laughed quietly . 
No , I find I was not very serious . 
I haven't sentiment enough to forego a summer house . 
Noble gave her a glance , half humorous , half vexed . 
Do you know I am rather disappointed ? he said . 
I had almost hoped that , just for once , you know , you would be a little bit foolish . 
Not now that I've slept over it , replied Caroline , and they both rose from the table , laughing . 
The Marriage of Phaedra The sequence of events was such that MacMaster did not make his pilgrimage to Hugh Treffinger's studio until three years after that painter's death . 
Treffinger was a comparatively young man at the time of his death , and there had seemed no occasion for haste until haste was of no avail . 
Then , possibly , though there had been some correspondence between them , MacMaster felt certain qualms about meeting in the flesh a man who in the flesh was so diversely reported . 
His intercourse with Treffinger's work had been so deep and satisfying , so apart from other appreciations , that he rather dreaded a critical juncture of any sort . 
He had always felt himself singularly inept in personal relations , and in this case he had avoided the issue until it was no longer to be feared or hoped for . 
The young man arrived in London in the evening , and the next morning went out to Kensington to find Treffinger's studio . 
Treffinger's plate was still there , and a card requesting visitors to ring for the attendant . 
In response to MacMaster's ring , the door was opened by a cleanly built little man , clad in a shooting jacket and trousers that had been made for an ampler figure . 
He had a fresh complexion , eyes of that common uncertain shade of gray , and was closely shaven except for the incipient muttonchops on his ruddy cheeks . 
He bore himself in a manner strikingly capable , and there was a sort of trimness and alertness about him , despite the too generous shoulders of his coat . 
In one hand he held a bulldog pipe , and in the other a copy of i Sporting Life i . 
While MacMaster was explaining the purpose of his call he noticed that the man surveyed him critically , though not impertinently . 
He was admitted into a little tank of a lodge made of whitewashed stone , the back door and windows opening upon a garden . 
A visitor's book and a pile of catalogues lay on a deal table , together with a bottle of ink and some rusty pens . 
The wall was ornamented with photographs and colored prints of racing favorites . 
The studio is h'only open to the public on Saturdays and Sundays , explained the man he referred to himself as Jymes but of course we make exceptions in the case of pynters . 
Lydy Elling Treffinger 'erself is on the Continent , but Sir 'Ugh's orders was that pynters was to 'ave the run of the place . 
He selected a key from his pocket and threw open the door into the studio which , like the lodge , was built against the wall of the garden . 
MacMaster entered a long , narrow room , built of smoothed planks , painted a light green cold and damp even on that fine May morning . 
MacMaster had never seen so many of Treffinger's paintings together . 
He knew the painter had married a woman with money and had been able to keep such of his pictures as he wished . 
These , with all of i i his replicas and studies , he had left as a sort of common legacy to the younger men of the school he had originated . 
As soon as he was left alone MacMaster sat down on the edge of the model throne before the unfinished picture . 
Here indeed was what he had come for it rather paralyzed his receptivity for the moment , but gradually the thing found its way to him . 
At one o'clock he was standing before the collection of studies done for i Boccaccio's Garden i when he heard a voice at his elbow . 
Pardon , sir , but I was just about to lock up and go to lunch . 
Are you lookin' for the figure study of Boccaccio 'imself ? James queried respectfully . 
Lydy Elling Treffinger give it to Mr. Rossiter to take down to Oxford for some lectures he's been agiving there . 
Did he never paint out his studies , then ? asked MacMaster with perplexity . 
Here are two completed ones for this picture . 
Why did he keep them ? I don't know as I could say as to that , sir , replied James , smiling indulgently , but that was 'is way . 
You see , 'e wasn't so keen for the final effect as for the proper pyntin' of 'is pictures . 
'E used to say they ought to be well made , the same as any other h'article of trade . 
I can lay my 'and on the pose studies for you , sir . 
That's in Paris , as I remember , James continued reflectively . 
It went with the i Saint Cecilia i into the Baron H 's collection . 
Could you tell me , sir , 'as 'e it still ? I don't like to lose account of them , but some 'as changed 'ands since Sir 'Ugh's death . 
H 's collection is still intact , I believe , replied MacMaster . 
You were with Treffinger long ? From my boyhood , sir , replied James with gravity . 
I was a stable boy when 'e took me . 
You were his man , then ? That's it , sir . 
Nobody else ever done anything around the studio . 
I always mixed 'is colors and 'e taught me to do a share of the varnishin' 'e said as 'ow there wasn't a 'ouse in England as could do it proper . 
You ayn't looked at the i Marriage i yet , sir ? he asked abruptly , glancing doubtfully at MacMaster , and indicating with his thumb the picture under the north light . 
I prefer to begin with something simpler that's rather appalling , at first glance , replied MacMaster . 
Well may you say that , sir , said James warmly . 
That one regular killed Sir 'Ugh it regular broke 'im up , and nothink will ever convince me as 'ow it didn't bring on 'is second stroke . 
When MacMaster walked back to High Street to take his bus his mind was divided between two exultant convictions . 
Lady Mary was an only sister of Lady Ellen Treffinger , the painter's widow , and MacMaster had known her during one winter he spent at Nice . 
In her reply to his note Lady Mary named an afternoon when she would be alone . 
She was as good as her word , and when MacMaster arrived he found the drawing room empty . 
Lady Mary entered shortly after he was announced . 
She was a tall woman , thin and stiffly jointed , and her body stood out under the folds of her gown with the rigor of cast iron . 
It's four years since I saw you at Nice , isn't it ? I was in Paris last winter , but I heard nothing from you . 
I was in New York then . 
It occurred to me that you might be . 
And why are you in London ? Can you ask ? replied MacMaster gallantly . 
But for what else , incidentally ? Well , incidentally , I came to see Treffinger's studio and his unfinished picture . 
Since I've been here , I've decided to stay the summer . 
I'm even thinking of attempting to do a biography of him . 
So that is what brought you to London ? Not exactly . 
I had really no intention of anything so serious when I came . 
It's his last picture , I fancy , that has rather thrust it upon me . 
The notion has settled down on me like a thing destined . 
You'll not be offended if I question the clemency of such a destiny , remarked Lady Mary dryly . 
Isn't there rather a surplus of books on that subject already ? Such as they are . 
Oh , I've read them all here MacMaster faced Lady Mary triumphantly . 
He has quite escaped your amiable critics , he added , smiling . 
I know well enough what you think , and I daresay we are not much on art , said Lady Mary with tolerant good humor . 
We leave that to peoples who have no physique . 
Treffinger made a stir for a time , but it seems that we are not capable of a sustained appreciation of such extraordinary methods . 
In the end we go back to the pictures we find agreeable and unperplexing . 
He was regarded as an experiment , I fancy and now it seems that he was rather an unsuccessful one . 
If you've come to us in a missionary spirit , we'll tolerate you politely , but we'll laugh in our sleeve , I warn you . 
That really doesn't daunt me , Lady Mary , declared MacMaster blandly . 
As I told you , I'm a man with a mission . 
Lady Mary laughed her hoarse , baritone laugh . 
Bravo ! And you've come to me for inspiration for your panegyric ? MacMaster smiled with some embarrassment . 
Not altogether for that purpose . 
But I want to consult you , Lady Mary , about the advisability of troubling Lady Ellen Treffinger in the matter . 
It seems scarcely legitimate to go on without asking her to give some sort of grace to my proceedings , yet I feared the whole subject might be painful to her . 
I shall rely wholly upon your discretion . 
I think she would prefer to be consulted , replied Lady Mary judicially . 
I can't understand how she endures to have the wretched affair continually raked up , but she does . 
She seems to feel a sort of moral responsibility . 
Ellen has always been singularly conscientious about this matter , insofar as her light goes , which rather puzzles me , as hers is not exactly a magnanimous nature . 
She is certainly trying to do what she believes to be the right thing . 
I shall write to her , and you can see her when she returns from Italy . 
I want very much to meet her . 
She is , I hope , quite recovered in every way , queried MacMaster , hesitatingly . 
No , I can't say that she is . 
She has remained in much the same condition she sank to before his death . 
He trampled over pretty much whatever there was in her , I fancy . 
Women don't recover from wounds of that sort at least , not women of Ellen's grain . 
They go on bleeding inwardly . 
You , at any rate , have not grown more reconciled , MacMaster ventured . 
Oh I give him his dues . 
He was a colorist , I grant you but that is a vague and unsatisfactory quality to marry to Lady Ellen Treffinger found it so . 
Lady Mary poised her glasses on her large forefinger and assumed an attitude suggestive of the clinical lecture room as she replied . 
Ellen , my dear boy , is an essentially romantic person . 
She is quiet about it , but she runs deep . 
I never knew how deep until I came against her on the issue of that marriage . 
She was always discontented as a girl she found things dull and prosaic , and the ardor of his courtship was agreeable to her . 
He met her during her first season in town . 
She is handsome , and there were plenty of other men , but I grant you your scowling brigand was the most picturesque of the lot . 
In his courtship , as in everything else , he was theatrical to the point of being ridiculous , but Ellen's sense of humor is not her strongest quality . 
He had the charm of celebrity , the air of a man who could storm his way through anything to get what he wanted . 
That sort of vehemence is particularly effective with women like Ellen , who can be warmed only by reflected heat , and she couldn't at all stand out against it . 
He convinced her of his necessity and that done , all's done . 
I can't help thinking that , even on such a basis , the marriage should have turned out better , MacMaster remarked reflectively . 
The marriage , Lady Mary continued with a shrug , was made on the basis of a mutual misunderstanding . 
After his marriage he relapsed into his old habits of incessant work , broken by violent and often brutal relaxations . 
He insulted her friends and foisted his own upon her many of them well calculated to arouse aversion in any well bred girl . 
He had Ghillini constantly at the house a homeless vagabond , whose conversation was impossible . 
I don't say , mind you , that he had not grievances on his side . 
He had probably overrated the girl's possibilities , and he let her see that he was disappointed in her . 
Only a large and generous nature could have borne with him , and Ellen's is not that . 
She could not at all understand that odious strain of plebeian pride which plumes itself upon not having risen above its sources . 
As MacMaster drove back to his hotel he reflected that Lady Mary Percy had probably had good cause for dissatisfaction with her brother in law . 
Treffinger was , indeed , the last man who should have married into the Percy family . 
From the moment he came under the eye and influence of that erratic Italian , then a political exile , his life had swerved sharply from its old channel . 
This man had been at once incentive and guide , friend and master , to his pupil . 
He had taken the raw clay out of the London streets and molded it anew . 
Seemingly he had divined at once where the boy's possibilities lay , and had thrown aside every canon of orthodox instruction in the training of him . 
That was the beginning of the wattle fences , the cobble pave , the brown roof beams , the cunningly wrought fabrics that gave to his pictures such a richness of decorative effect . 
As he had told Lady Mary Percy , MacMaster had found the imperative inspiration of his purpose in Treffinger's unfinished picture , the i Marriage of Phaedra i . 
There was in him alike the freshness and spontaneity , the frank brutality and the religious mysticism , which lay well back of the fifteenth century . 
In the i Marriage of Phaedra i MacMaster found the ultimate expression of this spirit , the final word as to Treffinger's point of view . 
As in all Treffinger's classical subjects , the conception was wholly medieval . 
The daughter of i heathenesse i and the early church she was doomed to torturing visions and scourgings , and the wrangling of soul with flesh . 
The venerable Theseus might have been victorious Charlemagne , and Phaedra's maidens belonged rather in the train of Blanche of Castile than at the Cretan court . 
This male figure , and the face of Phaedra , painted with such magical preservation of tone under the heavy shadow of the veil , were plainly Treffinger's highest achievements of craftsmanship . 
From James's attitude toward the picture MacMaster could well conjecture what the painter's had been . 
This picture was always uppermost in James's mind its custodianship formed , in his eyes , his occupation . 
He was manifestly apprehensive when visitors not many came nowadays lingered near it . 
By the end of his second week in London MacMaster had begun the notes for his study of Hugh Treffinger and his work . 
When his researches led him occasionally to visit the studios of Treffinger's friends and erstwhile disciples , he found their Treffinger manner fading as the ring of Treffinger's personality died out in them . 
One by one they were stealing back into the fold of national British art the hand that had wound them up was still . 
He could not himself have traced the successive steps by which he was gradually admitted into James's confidence . 
Certainly most of his adroit strategies to that end failed humiliatingly , and whatever it was that built up an understanding between them must have been instinctive and intuitive on both sides . 
When at last James became anecdotal , personal , there was that in every word he let fall which put breath and blood into MacMaster's book . 
James had so long been steeped in that penetrating personality that he fairly exuded it . 
Many of his very phrases , mannerisms , and opinions were impressions that he had taken on like wet plaster in his daily contact with Treffinger . 
Inwardly he was lined with cast off epitheliums , as outwardly he was clad in the painter's discarded coats . 
It was James who possessed Treffinger's legend it was with James that he had laid aside his pose . 
Only in his studio , alone , and face to face with his work , as it seemed , had the man invariably been himself . 
James had known him in the one attitude in which he was entirely honest their relation had fallen well within the painter's only indubitable integrity . 
James's report of Treffinger was distorted by no hallucination of artistic insight , colored by no interpretation of his own . 
He merely held what he had heard and seen his mind was a sort of camera obscura . 
His very limitations made him the more literal and minutely accurate . 
One morning , when MacMaster was seated before the i Marriage of Phaedra i , James entered on his usual round of dusting . 
I've 'eard from Lydy Elling by the post , sir , he remarked , an' she's give h'orders to 'ave the 'ouse put in readiness . 
I doubt she'll be 'ere by Thursday or Friday next . 
She spends most of her time abroad ? queried MacMaster on the subject of Lady Treffinger James consistently maintained a very delicate reserve . 
Well , you could 'ardly say she does that , sir . 
She finds the 'ouse a bit dull , I daresay , so durin' the season she stops mostly with Lydy Mary Percy , at Grosvenor Square . 
Lydy Mary's a h'only sister . 
Blowed if I ever see a man go in for a 'oman like 'im ! 'E was that gone , sir . 
'E wasn't strong for Lydy Elling's set they was a bit too stiff for 'im . 
A free an' easy gentleman , 'e was 'e liked 'is dinner with a few friends an' them jolly , but 'e wasn't much on what you might call big affairs . 
'E got 'imself put up for a club in Piccadilly 'e starved 'imself thin , an' worrited 'imself white , an' ironed 'imself out , an' drawed 'imself tight as a bow string . 
It was a good job 'e come a winner , or I don't know w'at'd 'a been to pay . 
The next week , in consequence of an invitation from Lady Ellen Treffinger , MacMaster went one afternoon to take tea with her . 
He was shown into the garden that lay between the residence and the studio , where the tea table was set under a gnarled pear tree . 
Lady Ellen rose as he approached he was astonished to note how tall she was and greeted him graciously , saying that she already knew him through her sister . 
MacMaster felt a certain satisfaction in her in her reassuring poise and repose , in the charming modulations of her voice and the indolent reserve of her full , almond eyes . 
He was even delighted to find her face so inscrutable , though it chilled his own warmth and made the open frankness he had wished to permit himself impossible . 
It was a long face , narrow at the chin , very delicately featured , yet steeled by an impassive mask of self control . 
It was behind just such finely cut , close sealed faces , MacMaster reflected , that nature sometimes hid astonishing secrets . 
While he was explaining the purpose of his frequent visits to the studio she heard him with courteous interest . 
I believe they are rather inadequate , she remarked vaguely . 
I have always asked that privilege . 
I see your meaning , I think , said Lady Ellen , looking at him with wide , uncomprehending eyes . 
He could well understand what manifold tortures the mere grain of the man's strong red and brown flesh might have inflicted upon a woman like Lady Ellen . 
Toward the close of the season Lady Ellen Treffinger left town . 
MacMaster's work was progressing rapidly , and he and James wore away the days in their peculiar relation , which by this time had much of friendliness . 
Excepting for the regular visits of a Jewish picture dealer , there were few intrusions upon their solitude . 
When , upon his first visit , Lichtenstein had declared the picture one of the things done for time , MacMaster had rather warmed toward him and had talked to him very freely . 
She has never abbreciated until she has lost , but , knowingly , she will buy back . 
James had , from the first , felt such a distrust of the man that he would never leave him alone in the studio for a moment . 
When Lichtenstein insisted upon having Lady Ellen Treffinger's address James rose to the point of insolence . 
It ayn't no use to give it , noway . 
Lydy Treffinger never has nothink to do with dealers . 
By this time the first chapters of MacMaster's book were in the hands of his publisher , and his visits to the studio were necessarily less frequent . 
The greater part of his time was now employed with the engravers who were to reproduce such of Treffinger's pictures as he intended to use as illustrations . 
Why , James , what's up ? he cried in astonishment , glancing inquiringly at the sheeted object . 
Ayn't you seen the pypers , sir ? jerked out the man . 
No , now I think of it , I haven't even looked at a paper . 
I've been at the engravers' plant all day . 
James drew a copy of the i Times i from his pocket and handed it to him , pointing with a tragic finger to a paragraph in the social column . 
It was merely the announcement of Lady Ellen Treffinger's engagement to Captain Alexander Gresham . 
Well , what of it , my man ? That surely is her privilege . 
MacMaster pursed up his lips and sat down , his overcoat still on . 
Well , James , this is something of a something of a jolt , eh ? It never occurred to me she'd really do it . 
Lord , you don't know 'er , sir , said James bitterly , still staring at the floor in an attitude of abandoned dejection . 
It's the i Marriage i itself . 
It ayn't agoing to H'Australia , no'ow ! But man , what are you going to do with it ? It's Lichtenstein's property now , as it seems . 
It ayn't , sir , that it ayn't . 
No , by Gawd , it ayn't ! shouted James , breaking into a choking fury . 
MacMaster sat down again and looked sadly at the doomed masterpiece . 
The notion of James having carried it across London that night rather appealed to his fancy . 
There was certainly a flavor about such a highhanded proceeding . 
However did you get it here ? he queried . 
I got a four wheeler and come over direct , sir . 
Good job I 'appened to 'ave the chaynge about me . 
You came up High Street , up Piccadilly , through the Haymarket and Trafalgar Square , and into the Strand ? queried MacMaster with a relish . 
Of course , sir , assented James with surprise . 
It was a beautiful idea , James , but I'm afraid we can't carry it any further . 
I'm afraid that's out of the question , James . 
I haven't the right stuff in me for a pirate , or even a vulgar smuggler , I'm afraid . 
MacMaster found it surprisingly difficult to say this , and he busied himself with the lamp as he said it . 
He heard James's hand fall heavily on the trunk top , and he discovered that he very much disliked sinking in the man's estimation . 
Well , sir , remarked James in a more formal tone , after a protracted silence then there's nothink for it but as 'ow I'll 'ave to make way with it myself . 
And how about your character , James ? The evidence would be heavy against you , and even if Lady Treffinger didn't prosecute you'd be done for . 
Blow my character ! your pardon , sir , cried James , starting to his feet . 
W'at do I want of a character ? I'll chuck the 'ole thing , and damned lively , too . 
The shop's to be sold out , an' my place is gone any'ow . 
I'm agoing to enlist , or try the gold fields . 
I've lived too long with h'artists I'd never give satisfaction in livery now . 
You know 'ow it is yourself , sir there ayn't no life like it , no'ow . 
For a moment MacMaster was almost equal to abetting James in his theft . 
But presently , with a sigh , he shook his head . 
No , James , it won't do at all . 
It has been tried over and over again , ever since the world has been agoing and pictures amaking . 
It was tried in Florence and in Venice , but the pictures were always carried away in the end . 
You see , the difficulty is that although Treffinger told you what was not to be done with the picture , he did not say definitely what was to be done with it . 
My memory is as clear as glass about it . 
After Sir 'Ugh got up from 'is first stroke , 'e took a fresh start at the i Marriage i . 
From that on 'e worked at the night picture in the mornin' a thing contrary to 'is custom . 
The i Marriage i went wrong , and wrong an' Sir 'Ugh agettin' seedier an' seedier every day . 
'E tried models an' models , an' smudged an' pynted out on account of 'er face goin' wrong in the shadow . 
Sometimes 'e layed it on the colors , an' swore at me an' things in general . 
It's worth the lot of 'em , my boy , an' it's not agoing to go shabby for lack of pains . 
'E said things to that effect repeated . 
He was workin' at the picture the last day , before 'e went to 'is club . 
'E kept the carriage waitin' near an hour while 'e put on a stroke an' then drawed back for to look at it , an' then put on another , careful like . 
After 'e 'ad 'is gloves on , 'e come back an' took away the brushes I was startin' to clean , an' put in another touch or two . 
'It's acomin' , Jymes , 'e says , 'by gad if it ayn't . 
An' with that 'e goes out . 
It was cruel sudden , w'at come after . 
That night I was lookin' to 'is clothes at the 'ouse when they brought 'im 'ome . 
He was conscious , but w'en I ran downstairs for to 'elp lift 'im up , I knowed 'e was a finished man . 
After we got 'im into bed 'e kept lookin' restless at me and then at Lydy Elling and ajerkin' of 'is 'and . 
Finally 'e quite raised it an' shot 'is thumb out toward the wall . 
'He wants water ring , Jymes , says Lydy Elling , placid . 
But I knowed 'e was pointin' to the shop . 
'Lydy Treffinger , says I , bold , 'he's pointin' to the studio . 
He means about the i Marriage i 'e told me today as 'ow 'e never wanted it sold unfinished . 
Is that it , Sir 'Ugh ? He smiled an' nodded slight an' closed 'is eyes . 
'Thank you , Jymes , says Lydy Elling , placid . 
Then 'e opened 'is eyes an' looked long and 'ard at Lydy Elling . 
'Of course I'll try to do as you'd wish about the picture , 'Ugh , if that's w'at's troublin' you , she says quiet . 
With that 'e closed 'is eyes and 'e never opened 'em . 
He died unconscious at four that mornin' . 
You see , sir , Lydy Elling was always cruel 'ard on the i Marriage i . 
From the first it went wrong , an' Sir 'Ugh was out of temper pretty constant . 
She came into the studio one day and looked at the picture an 'asked 'im why 'e didn't throw it up an' quit aworriting 'imself . 
He answered sharp , an' with that she said as 'ow she didn't see w'at there was to make such a row about , no'ow . 
If there was one thing Lydy Elling 'ad no comprehension of , it was the usefulness of swearin' . 
So the i Marriage i was a sore thing between 'em . 
She is uncommon calm , but uncommon bitter , is Lydy Elling . 
She's never come anear the studio since that day she went out 'oldin' up of 'er skirts . 
W'en 'er friends goes over she excuses 'erself along o' the strain . 
Strain Gawd ! James ground his wrath short in his teeth . 
I'll tell you what I'll do , James , and it's our only hope . 
I'll see Lady Ellen tomorrow . 
The i Times i says she returned today . 
You take the picture back to its place , and I'll do what I can for it . 
If anything is done to save it , it must be done through Lady Ellen Treffinger herself , that much is clear . 
I can't think that she fully understands the situation . 
If she did , you know , she really couldn't have any motive He stopped suddenly . 
Somehow , in the dusky lamplight , her small , close sealed face came ominously back to him . 
He rubbed his forehead and knitted his brows thoughtfully . 
After a moment he shook his head and went on I am positive that nothing can be gained by highhanded methods , James . 
Lady Ellen has , of course , every legal right to sell the picture . 
Treffinger made considerable inroads upon her estate , and , as she is about to marry a man without income , she doubtless feels that she has a right to replenish her patrimony . 
He found James amenable , though doggedly skeptical . 
He went down into the street , called a carriage , and saw James and his burden into it . 
It is rather a fine touch of irony , he reflected , that he , who is so out of it , should be the one to really care . 
Poor Treffinger , he murmured as , with a rather spiritless smile , he turned back into his hotel . 
Poor Treffinger i sic transit gloria i . 
The next afternoon MacMaster kept his promise . 
Lady Ellen came down alone , excusing her sister . 
She was dressed for receiving , and MacMaster had never seen one so beautiful . 
The color in her cheeks sent a softening glow over her small , delicately cut features . 
MacMaster apologized for his intrusion and came unflinchingly to the object of his call . 
He had come , he said , not only to offer her his warmest congratulations , but to express his regret that a great work of art was to leave England . 
Lady Treffinger looked at him in wide eyed astonishment . 
Surely , she said , she had been careful to select the best of the pictures for the X gallery , in accordance with Sir Hugh Treffinger's wishes . 
When she spoke there was a sharp tremor in her smooth voice , the edge of a resentment that tore her like pain . 
I think his man has some such impression , but I believe it to be utterly unfounded . 
I cannot find that he ever expressed any wish concerning the disposition of the picture to any of his friends . 
Unfortunately , Sir Hugh was not always discreet in his remarks to his servants . 
Captain Gresham , Lady Ellingham , and Miss Ellingham , announced a servant , appearing at the door . 
There was a murmur in the hall , and MacMaster greeted the smiling Captain and his aunt as he bowed himself out . 
To all intents and purposes the i Marriage of Phaedra i was already entombed in a vague continent in the Pacific , somewhere on the other side of the world . 
A Wagner Matinee I received one morning a letter , written in pale ink on glassy , blue lined notepaper , and bearing the postmark of a little Nebraska village . 
He requested me to meet her at the station and render her whatever services might be necessary . 
On examining the date indicated as that of her arrival I found it no later than tomorrow . 
He had characteristically delayed writing until , had I been away from home for a day , I must have missed the good woman altogether . 
I became , in short , the gangling farm boy my aunt had known , scourged with chilblains and bashfulness , my hands cracked and sore from the corn husking . 
I felt the knuckles of my thumb tentatively , as though they were raw again . 
I sat again before her parlor organ , fumbling the scales with my stiff , red hands , while she , beside me , made canvas mittens for the huskers . 
The next morning , after preparing my landlady somewhat , I set out for the station . 
When the train arrived I had some difficulty in finding my aunt . 
She was the last of the passengers to alight , and it was not until I got her into the carriage that she seemed really to recognize me . 
She had come all the way in a day coach her linen duster had become black with soot , and her black bonnet gray with dust , during the journey . 
When we arrived at my boardinghouse the landlady put her to bed at once and I did not see her again until the next morning . 
Whatever shock Mrs. Springer experienced at my aunt's appearance she considerately concealed . 
My Aunt Georgiana had been a music teacher at the Boston Conservatory , somewhere back in the latter sixties . 
Carpenter , who , of course , had no money , had taken a homestead in Red Willow County , fifty miles from the railroad . 
They built a dugout in the red hillside , one of those cave dwellings whose inmates so often reverted to primitive conditions . 
Their water they got from the lagoons where the buffalo drank , and their slender stock of provisions was always at the mercy of bands of roving Indians . 
For thirty years my aunt had not been further than fifty miles from the homestead . 
But Mrs. Springer knew nothing of all this , and must have been considerably shocked at what was left of my kinswoman . 
My poor aunt's figure , however , would have presented astonishing difficulties to any dressmaker . 
Originally stooped , her shoulders were now almost bent together over her sunken chest . 
She wore no stays , and her gown , which trailed unevenly behind , rose in a sort of peak over her abdomen . 
I owed to this woman most of the good that ever came my way in my boyhood , and had a reverential affection for her . 
She would sit beside me by the hour , darning and counting while I struggled with the Joyous Farmer , but she seldom talked to me about music , and I understood why . 
She was a pious woman she had the consolations of religion and , to her at least , her martyrdom was not wholly sordid . 
Oh , dear boy , pray that whatever your sacrifice may be , it be not that . 
When my aunt appeared on the morning after her arrival she was still in a semi somnambulant state . 
She seemed not to realize that she was in the city where she had spent her youth , the place longed for hungrily half a lifetime . 
Indeed , for her own sake , I could only wish her taste for such things quite dead , and the long struggle mercifully ended at last . 
I suggested our visiting the Conservatory and the Common before lunch , but she seemed altogether too timid to wish to venture out . 
She was further troubled because she had neglected to tell her daughter about the freshly opened kit of mackerel in the cellar , which would spoil if it were not used directly . 
I began to think it would have been best to get her back to Red Willow County without waking her , and regretted having suggested the concert . 
From the time we entered the concert hall , however , she was a trifle less passive and inert , and for the first time seemed to perceive her surroundings . 
But , again , I found how superficially I had judged her . 
We sat at the extreme left of the first balcony , facing the arc of our own and the balcony above us , veritable hanging gardens , brilliant as tulip beds . 
The matinee audience was made up chiefly of women . 
My Aunt Georgiana regarded them as though they had been so many daubs of tube paint on a palette . 
I could feel how all those details sank into her soul , for I had not forgotten how they had sunk into mine when . 
The first number was the i Tannhauser i overture . 
When the horns drew out the first strain of the Pilgrim's chorus my Aunt Georgiana clutched my coat sleeve . 
Then it was I first realized that for her this broke a silence of thirty years the inconceivable silence of the plains . 
The overture closed my aunt released my coat sleeve , but she said nothing . 
She had often told me of Mozart's operas and Meyerbeer's , and I could remember hearing her sing , years ago , certain melodies of Verdi's . 
As I pressed and gently quieted one of those groping hands I remembered with quivering eyelids their services for me in other days . 
Soon after the tenor began the Prize Song , I heard a quick drawn breath and turned to my aunt . 
Her eyes were closed , but the tears were glistening on her cheeks , and I think , in a moment more , they were in my eyes as well . 
She wept so throughout the development and elaboration of the melody . 
During the intermission before the second half of the concert , I questioned my aunt and found that the Prize Song was not new to her . 
All this my aunt told me huskily , wanderingly , as though she were talking in the weak lapses of illness . 
Well , we have come to better things than the old i Trovatore i at any rate , Aunt Georgie ? I queried , with a well meant effort at jocularity . 
Her lip quivered and she hastily put her handkerchief up to her mouth . 
From behind it she murmured , And you have been hearing this ever since you left me , Clark ? Her question was the gentlest and saddest of reproaches . 
The second half of the program consisted of four numbers from the i Ring i , and closed with Siegfried's funeral march . 
My aunt wept quietly , but almost continuously , as a shallow vessel overflows in a rainstorm . 
From time to time her dim eyes looked up at the lights which studded the ceiling , burning softly under their dull glass globes doubtless they were stars in truth to her . 
I was wholly unable to gauge how much of it had been dissolved in soapsuds , or worked into bread , or milked into the bottom of a pail . 
The concert was over the people filed out of the hall chattering and laughing , glad to relax and find the living level again , but my kinswoman made no effort to rise . 
I spoke to my aunt . 
She burst into tears and sobbed pleadingly . 
I don't want to go , Clark , I don't want to go ! I understood . 
Paul's Case i A Study in Temperament i It was Paul's afternoon to appear before the faculty of the Pittsburgh High School to account for his various misdemeanors . 
He had been suspended a week ago , and his father had called at the Principal's office and confessed his perplexity about his son . 
Paul entered the faculty room suave and smiling . 
This latter adornment the faculty somehow felt was not properly significant of the contrite spirit befitting a boy under the ban of suspension . 
Paul was tall for his age and very thin , with high , cramped shoulders and a narrow chest . 
His eyes were remarkable for a certain hysterical brilliancy , and he continually used them in a conscious , theatrical sort of way , peculiarly offensive in a boy . 
The pupils were abnormally large , as though he were addicted to belladonna , but there was a glassy glitter about them which that drug does not produce . 
When questioned by the Principal as to why he was there Paul stated , politely enough , that he wanted to come back to school . 
This was a lie , but Paul was quite accustomed to lying found it , indeed , indispensable for overcoming friction . 
Once , when he had been making a synopsis of a paragraph at the blackboard , his English teacher had stepped to his side and attempted to guide his hand . 
Paul had started back with a shudder and thrust his hands violently behind him . 
The astonished woman could scarcely have been more hurt and embarrassed had he struck at her . 
The insult was so involuntary and definitely personal as to be unforgettable . 
in one way and another he had made all his teachers , men and women alike , conscious of the same feeling of physical aversion . 
He stood through it smiling , his pale lips parted over his white teeth . 
Paul was always smiling , always glancing about him , seeming to feel that people might be watching him and trying to detect something . 
This conscious expression , since it was as far as possible from boyish mirthfulness , was usually attributed to insolence or smartness . 
As the inquisition proceeded one of his instructors repeated an impertinent remark of the boy's , and the Principal asked him whether he thought that a courteous speech to have made a woman . 
Paul shrugged his shoulders slightly and his eyebrows twitched . 
I don't know , he replied . 
I didn't mean to be polite or impolite , either . 
I guess it's a sort of way I have of saying things regardless . 
The Principal , who was a sympathetic man , asked him whether he didn't think that a way it would be well to get rid of . 
Paul grinned and said he guessed so . 
When he was told that he could go he bowed gracefully and went out . 
His bow was but a repetition of the scandalous red carnation . 
His teachers were in despair , and his drawing master voiced the feeling of them all when he declared there was something about the boy which none of them understood . 
He added I don't really believe that smile of his comes altogether from insolence there's something sort of haunted about it . 
The boy is not strong , for one thing . 
I happen to know that he was born in Colorado , only a few months before his mother died out there of a long illness . 
There is something wrong about the fellow . 
The drawing master had come to realize that , in looking at Paul , one saw only his white teeth and the forced animation of his eyes . 
Some of them remembered having seen a miserable street cat set at bay by a ring of tormentors . 
As it was now late in the afternoon and Paul was on duty that evening as usher at Carnegie Hall , he decided that he would not go home to supper . 
Paul possessed himself of the peace and walked confidently up and down , whistling under his breath . 
After a while he sat down before a blue Rico and lost himself . 
When Paul reached the ushers' dressing room half a dozen boys were there already , and he began excitedly to tumble into his uniform . 
Somewhat calmed by his suppression , Paul dashed out to the front of the house to seat the early comers . 
As the house filled , he grew more and more vivacious and animated , and the color came to his cheeks and lips . 
It was very much as though this were a great reception and Paul were the host . 
just as the musicians came out to take their places , his English teacher arrived with checks for the seats which a prominent manufacturer had taken for the season . 
She betrayed some embarrassment when she handed Paul the tickets , and a hauteur which subsequently made her feel very foolish . 
When the symphony began Paul sank into one of the rear seats with a long sigh of relief , and lost himself as he had done before the Rico . 
He felt a sudden zest of life the lights danced before his eyes and the concert hall blazed into unimaginable splendor . 
When the soprano soloist came on Paul forgot even the nastiness of his teacher's being there and gave himself up to the peculiar stimulus such personages always had for him . 
After a concert was over Paul was always irritable and wretched until he got to sleep , and tonight he was even more than usually restless . 
During the last number he withdrew and , after hastily changing his clothes in the dressing room , slipped out to the side door where the soprano's carriage stood . 
Here he began pacing rapidly up and down the walk , waiting to see her come out . 
All the actors and singers of the better class stayed there when they were in the city , and a number of the big manufacturers of the place lived there in the winter . 
Paul had often hung about the hotel , watching the people go in and out , longing to enter and leave schoolmasters and dull care behind him forever . 
In the moment that the door was ajar it seemed to Paul that he , too , entered . 
He seemed to feel himself go after her up the steps , into the warm , lighted building , into an exotic , tropical world of shiny , glistening surfaces and basking ease . 
He turned and walked reluctantly toward the car tracks . 
Half an hour later Paul alighted from his car and went slowly down one of the side streets off the main thoroughfare . 
Paul never went up Cordelia Street without a shudder of loathing . 
His home was next to the house of the Cumberland minister . 
He approached it tonight with the nerveless sense Of defeat , the hopeless feeling of sinking back forever into ugliness and commonness that he had always had when he came home . 
The moment he turned into Cordelia Street he felt the waters close above his head . 
He was so much later than usual that there would certainly be inquiries and reproaches . 
Paul stopped short before the door . 
He felt that he could not be accosted by his father tonight that he could not toss again on that miserable bed . 
He would not go in . 
He would tell his father that he had no carfare and it was raining so hard he had gone home with one of the boys and stayed all night . 
Meanwhile , he was wet and cold . 
There he stood , holding his breath , terrified by the noise he had made , but the floor above him was silent , and there was no creak on the stairs . 
He found a soapbox , and carried it over to the soft ring of light that streamed from the furnace door , and sat down . 
He was horribly afraid of rats , so he did not try to sleep , but sat looking distrustfully at the dark , still terrified lest he might have awakened his father . 
The following Sunday was fine the sodden November chill was broken by the last flash of autumnal summer . 
In the morning Paul had to go to church and Sabbath school , as always . 
The children played in the streets there were so many of them that the place resembled the recreation grounds of a kindergarten . 
This the girls thought very fine , and the neighbors always joked about the suspicious color of the pitcher . 
Today Paul's father sat on the top step , talking to a young man who shifted a restless baby from knee to knee . 
He happened to be the young man who was daily held up to Paul as a model , and after whom it was his father's dearest hope that he would pattern . 
He was clerk to one of the magnates of a great steel corporation , and was looked upon in Cordelia Street as a young man with a future . 
She happened to be an angular schoolmistress , much older than he , who also wore thick glasses , and who had now borne him four children , all nearsighted , like herself . 
His father told , in turn , the plan his corporation was considering , of putting in an electric railway plant in Cairo . 
Paul snapped his teeth he had an awful apprehension that they might spoil it all before he got there . 
This latter request he had to repeat , as his father , on principle , did not like to hear requests for money , whether much or little . 
He was not a poor man , but he had a worthy ambition to come up in the world . 
His only reason for allowing Paul to usher was that he thought a boy ought to be earning a little . 
For more than a year Paul had spent every available moment loitering about Charley Edwards's dressing room . 
It was at the theater and at Carnegie Hall that Paul really lived the rest was but a sleep and a forgetting . 
This was Paul's fairy tale , and it had for him all the allurement of a secret love . 
Perhaps it was because , in Paul's world , the natural nearly always wore the guise of ugliness , that a certain element of artificiality seemed to him necessary in beauty . 
It would be difficult to put it strongly enough how convincingly the stage entrance of that theater was for Paul the actual portal of Romance . 
Certainly none of the company ever suspected it , least of all Charley Edwards . 
Several of Paul's teachers had a theory that his imagination had been perverted by garish fiction , but the truth was that he scarcely ever read at all . 
He needed only the spark , the indescribable thrill that made his imagination master of his senses , and he could make plots and pictures enough of his own . 
It was equally true that he was not stagestruck not , at any rate , in the usual acceptation of that expression . 
He had no desire to become an actor , any more than he had to become a musician . 
Then , next Monday , he would slip back , conscious and nervously smiling his sister was ill , and he should have to defer his voyage until spring . 
Matters went steadily worse with Paul at school . 
The upshot of the matter was that the Principal went to Paul's father , and Paul was taken out of school and put to work . 
The members of the stock company were vastly amused when some of Paul's stories reached them especially the women . 
They were hardworking women , most of them supporting indigent husbands or brothers , and they laughed rather bitterly at having stirred the boy to such fervid and florid inventions . 
They agreed with the faculty and with his father that Paul's was a bad case . 
The eastbound train was plowing through a January snowstorm the dull dawn was beginning to show gray when the engine whistled a mile out of Newark . 
Paul started up from the seat where he had lain curled in uneasy slumber , rubbed the breath misted window glass with his hand , and peered out . 
Lights shone from the scattered houses , and a gang of laborers who stood beside the track waved their lanterns . 
Paul had slept very little , and he felt grimy and uncomfortable . 
When the whistle awoke him , he clutched quickly at his breast pocket , glancing about him with an uncertain smile . 
Paul settled back to struggle with his impatience as best he could . 
When he arrived at the Jersey City station he hurried through his breakfast , manifestly ill at ease and keeping a sharp eye about him . 
After he reached the Twenty third Street station , he consulted a cabman and had himself driven to a men's furnishings establishment that was just opening for the day . 
He spent upward of two hours there , buying with endless reconsidering and great care . 
His new street suit he put on in the fitting room the frock coat and dress clothes he had bundled into the cab with his linen . 
Then he drove to a hatter's and a shoe house . 
His next errand was at Tiffany's , where he selected his silver and a new scarf pin . 
He would not wait to have his silver marked , he said . 
Lastly , he stopped at a trunk shop on Broadway and had his purchases packed into various traveling bags . 
It was a little after one o'clock when he drove up to the Waldorf , and after settling with the cabman , went into the office . 
He registered from Washington said his mother and father had been abroad , and that he had come down to await the arrival of their steamer . 
He told his story plausibly and had no trouble , since he volunteered to pay for them in advance , in engaging his rooms a sleeping room , sitting room , and bath . 
Not once , but a hundred times , Paul had planned this entry into New York . 
He had gone over every detail of it with Charley Edwards , and in his scrapbook at home there were pages of description about New York hotels , cut from the Sunday papers . 
He moved about nervously until the boy returned , putting away his new linen and fingering it delightedly as he did so . 
When the flowers came he put them hastily into water , and then tumbled into a hot bath . 
Presently he came out of his white bathroom , resplendent in his new silk underwear , and playing with the tassels of his red robe . 
The snow was whirling so fiercely outside his windows that he could scarcely see across the street , but within the air was deliciously soft and fragrant . 
He put the violets and jonquils on the taboret beside the couch , and threw himself down , with a long sigh , covering himself with a Roman blanket . 
Lulled by the sound of the wind , the warm air , and the cool fragrance of the flowers , he sank into deep , drowsy retrospection . 
It had been wonderfully simple when they had shut him out of the theater and concert hall , when they had taken away his bone , the whole thing was virtually determined . 
The rest was a mere matter of opportunity . 
Until now he could not remember the time when he had not been dreading something . 
Even when he was a little boy it was always there behind him , or before , or on either side . 
But now he had a curious sense of relief , as though he had at last thrown down the gauntlet to the thing in the corner . 
There was above two thousand dollars in checks , and nearly a thousand in the bank notes which he had taken from the book and quietly transferred to his pocket . 
At the bank he had made out a new deposit slip . 
The bankbook , be knew , would not be returned before Monday or Tuesday , and his father would be out of town for the next week . 
From the time he slipped the bank notes into his pocket until he boarded the night train for New York , he had not known a moment's hesitation . 
It was not the first time Paul had steered through treacherous waters . 
How astonishingly easy it had all been here he was , the thing done and this time there would be no awakening , no figure at the top of the stairs . 
He watched the snowflakes whirling by his window until he fell asleep . 
When he awoke , it was three o'clock in the afternoon . 
Everything was quite perfect he was exactly the kind of boy he had always wanted to be . 
When he went downstairs Paul took a carriage and drove up Fifth Avenue toward the Park . 
The Park itself was a wonderful stage winterpiece . 
When he returned , the pause of the twilight had ceased and the tune of the streets had changed . 
The snow was falling faster , lights streamed from the hotels that reared their dozen stories fearlessly up into the storm , defying the raging Atlantic winds . 
A long , black stream of carriages poured down the avenue , intersected here and there by other streams , tending horizontally . 
There were a score of cabs about the entrance of his hotel , and his driver had to wait . 
Boys in livery were running in and out of the awning stretched across the sidewalk , up and down the red velvet carpet laid from the door to the street . 
He burnt like a faggot in a tempest . 
When Paul went down to dinner the music of the orchestra came floating up the elevator shaft to greet him . 
His head whirled as he stepped into the thronged corridor , and he sank back into one of the chairs against the wall to get his breath . 
The lights , the chatter , the perfumes , the bewildering medley of color he had , for a moment , the feeling of not being able to stand it . 
But only for a moment these were his own people , he told himself . 
When he reached the dining room he sat down at a table near a window . 
This was what all the world was fighting for , he reflected this was what all the struggle was about . 
He doubted the reality of his past . 
He was not in the least abashed or lonely . 
He had no especial desire to meet or to know any of these people all he demanded was the right to look on and conjecture , to watch the pageant . 
The mere stage properties were all he contended for . 
Nor was he lonely later in the evening , in his lodge at the Metropolitan . 
He was now entirely rid of his nervous misgivings , of his forced aggressiveness , of the imperative desire to show himself different from his surroundings . 
He felt now that his surroundings explained him . 
Nobody questioned the purple he had only to wear it passively . 
He had only to glance down at his attire to reassure himself that here it would be impossible for anyone to humiliate him . 
He found it hard to leave his beautiful sitting room to go to bed that night , and sat long watching the raging storm from his turret window . 
Sunday morning the city was practically snowbound . 
They had started out in the confiding warmth of a champagne friendship , but their parting in the elevator was singularly cool . 
The freshman pulled himself together to make his train , and Paul went to bed . 
He awoke at two o'clock in the afternoon , very thirsty and dizzy , and rang for icewater , coffee , and the Pittsburgh papers . 
On the part of the hotel management , Paul excited no suspicion . 
There was this to be said for him , that he wore his spoils with dignity and in no way made himself conspicuous . 
Even under the glow of his wine he was never boisterous , though he found the stuff like a magician's wand for wonder building . 
His chief greediness lay in his ears and eyes , and his excesses were not offensive ones . 
He could not remember a time when he had felt so at peace with himself . 
The mere release from the necessity of petty lying , lying every day and every day , restored his self respect . 
It was characteristic that remorse did not occur to him . 
His golden days went by without a shadow , and he made each as perfect as he could . 
The firm of Denny Carson announced that the boy's father had refunded the full amount of the theft and that they had no intention of prosecuting . 
The Cumberland minister had been interviewed , and expressed his hope of yet reclaiming the motherless lad , and his Sabbath school teacher declared that she would spare no effort to that end . 
The rumor had reached Pittsburgh that the boy had been seen in a New York hotel , and his father had gone East to find him and bring him home . 
Paul had just come in to dress for dinner he sank into a chair , weak to the knees , and clasped his head in his hands . 
It was to be worse than jail , even the tepid waters of Cordelia Street were to close over him finally and forever . 
He had the old feeling that the orchestra had suddenly stopped , the sinking sensation that the play was over . 
The glare and glitter about him , the mere scenic accessories had again , and for the last time , their old potency . 
He would show himself that he was game , he would finish the thing splendidly . 
He doubted , more than ever , the existence of Cordelia Street , and for the first time he drank his wine recklessly . 
He reflected drowsily , to the swell of the music and the chill sweetness of his wine , that he might have done it more wisely . 
He might have caught an outbound steamer and been well out of their clutches before now . 
But the other side of the world had seemed too far away and too uncertain then he could not have waited for it his need had been too sharp . 
If he had to choose over again , he would do the same thing tomorrow . 
He looked affectionately about the dining room , now gilded with a soft mist . 
Ah , it had paid indeed ! Paul was awakened next morning by a painful throbbing in his head and feet . 
He had thrown himself across the bed without undressing , and had slept with his shoes on . 
His limbs and hands were lead heavy , and his tongue and throat were parched and burnt . 
There came upon him one of those fateful attacks of clearheadedness that never occurred except when he was physically exhausted and his nerves hung loose . 
He lay still , closed his eyes , and let the tide of things wash over him . 
His father was in New York stopping at some joint or other , he told himself . 
The memory of successive summers on the front stoop fell upon him like a weight of black water . 
He had not a hundred dollars left and he knew now , more than ever , that money was everything , the wall that stood between all he loathed and all he wanted . 
The thing was winding itself up he had thought of that on his first glorious day in New York , and had even provided a way to snap the thread . 
He rose and moved about with a painful effort , succumbing now and again to attacks of nausea . 
It was the old depression exaggerated all the world had become Cordelia Street . 
Yet somehow he was not afraid of anything , was absolutely calm perhaps because he had looked into the dark corner at last and knew . 
It was bad enough , what he saw there , but somehow not so bad as his long fear of it had been . 
He saw everything clearly now . 
But he told himself that was not the way , so he went downstairs and took a cab to the ferry . 
When Paul arrived in Newark he got off the train and took another cab , directing the driver to follow the Pennsylvania tracks out of the town . 
The snow lay heavy on the roadways and had drifted deep in the open fields . 
Only here and there the dead grass or dried weed stalks projected , singularly black , above it . 
Once well into the country , Paul dismissed the carriage and walked , floundering along the tracks , his mind a medley of irrelevant things . 
He seemed to hold in his brain an actual picture of everything he had seen that morning . 
His mind , unable to cope with vital matters near at hand , worked feverishly and deftly at sorting and grouping these images . 
They made for him a part of the ugliness of the world , of the ache in his head , and the bitter burning on his tongue . 
He stooped and put a handful of snow into his mouth as he walked , but that , too , seemed hot . 
When he reached a little hillside , where the tracks ran through a cut some twenty feet below him , he stopped and sat down . 
The carnations in his coat were drooping with the cold , he noticed , their red glory all over . 
It occurred to him that all the flowers he had seen in the glass cases that first night must have gone the same way , long before this . 
Paul took one of the blossoms carefully from his coat and scooped a little hole in the snow , where he covered it up . 
Then he dozed awhile , from his weak condition , seemingly insensible to the cold . 
The sound of an approaching train awoke him , and he started to his feet , remembering only his resolution , and afraid lest he should be too late . 
When the right moment came , he jumped . 
As he fell , the folly of his haste occurred to him with merciless clearness , the vastness of what he had left undone . 
There flashed through his brain , clearer than ever before , the blue of Adriatic water , the yellow of Algerian sands . 
Then , because the picture making mechanism was crushed , the disturbing visions flashed into black , and Paul dropped back into the immense design of things . 
