The Romany Rye by George Borrow Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk THE ROMANY RYE CHAPTER I The Making of the Linch pin The Sound Sleeper Breakfast The Postillion's Departure . 
I AWOKE at the first break of day , and , leaving the postillion fast asleep , stepped out of the tent . 
The dingle was dank and dripping . 
I lighted a fire of coals , and got my forge in readiness . 
I then ascended to the field , where the chaise was standing as we had left it on the previous evening . 
The only thing requisite to set the chaise in a travelling condition appeared to be a linch pin , which I determined to make . 
Going to the companion wheel , I took out the linch pin , which I carried down with me to the dingle , to serve as a model . 
The dingle resounded with my strokes . 
Belle sat still , and occasionally smiled , but suddenly started up , and retreated towards her encampment , on a spark which I purposely sent in her direction alighting on her knee . 
In about three quarters of an hour I had succeeded tolerably well , and had produced a linch pin which I thought would serve . 
During all this time , notwithstanding the noise which I was making , the postillion never showed his face . 
His non appearance at first alarmed me I was afraid he might be dead , but , on looking into the tent , I found him still buried in the soundest sleep . 
He must surely be descended from one of the seven sleepers , said I , as I turned away , and resumed my work . 
Belle set about making preparations for breakfast and I taking the kettle , went and filled it at the spring . 
Having hung it over the fire , I went to the tent in which the postillion was still sleeping , and called upon him to arise . 
He awoke with a start , and stared around him at first with the utmost surprise , not unmixed , I could observe , with a certain degree of fear . 
At last , looking in my face , he appeared to recollect himself . 
I had quite forgot , said he , as he got up , where I was , and all that happened yesterday . 
However , I remember now the whole affair , thunder storm , thunder bolt , frightened horses , and all your kindness . 
Come , I must see after my coach and horses I hope we shall be able to repair the damage . 
The damage is already quite repaired , said I , as you will see , if you come to the field above . 
You don't say so , said the postillion , coming out of the tent well , I am mightily beholden to you . 
Good morning , young gentle woman , said he , addressing Belle , who , having finished her preparations , was seated near the fire . 
Good morning , young man , said Belle , I suppose you would be glad of some breakfast however , you must wait a little , the kettle does not boil . 
I heard you all the time , said the postillion , but your hammering made me sleep all the sounder I am used to hear hammering in my morning sleep . 
We now ascended to the field , where I showed the postillion his chaise . 
He looked at the pin attentively , rubbed his hands , and gave a loud laugh . 
Is it not well done ? said I. It will do till I get home , he replied . 
And that is all you have to say ? I demanded . 
And that's a good deal , said he , considering who made it . 
I shan't let it remain where it is , but will keep it , as a remembrance of you , as long as I live . 
He then again rubbed his hands with great glee , and said , I will now go and see after my horses , and then to breakfast , partner , if you please . 
As much water as you please , said I , but if you want soap , I must go and trouble the young gentle woman for some . 
By no means , said the postillion , water will do at a pinch . 
We then went to look after the horses , which we found not much the worse for having spent the night in the open air . 
We sat down , and Belle made tea and did the honours of the meal . 
Breakfast over , he said that he must now go and harness his horses , as it was high time for him to return to his inn . 
Recovering himself , however , he made a low bow , and proceeded up the path . 
CHAPTER II The Man in Black The Emperor of Germany Nepotism Donna Olympia Omnipotence Camillo Astalli The Five Propositions . 
IN the evening I received another visit from the man in black . 
After leaving you the other night , I remembered having read of an Emperor of Germany who conceived the idea of applying to Rome for money , and actually put it into practice . 
Urban the Eighth then occupied the papal chair , of the family of the Barbarini , nicknamed the Mosche , or Flies , from the circumstance of bees being their armorial bearing . 
This affair , said he , occurred in what were called the days of nepotism . 
That the system , notwithstanding its occasional disorders , went on . 
Popes and cardinals might prey upon its bowels , and sell its interests , but the system survived . 
I was about to speak , when I was interrupted by the arrival of Belle . 
After unharnessing her donkey , and adjusting her person a little , she came and sat down by us . 
In the meantime I had helped my companion to some more hollands and water , and had plunged with him into yet deeper discourse . 
CHAPTER III Necessity of Religion The Great Indian One Image worship Shakespeare The Pat Answer Krishna Amen . 
You told me that you intended to be frank , said I but , however frank you may be , I think you are rather wild . 
But how ? I demanded . 
It was brought about , I believe , by the wanderings of nations , said the man in black . 
All of one religion , said the man in black and now follow different modifications of the same religion . 
Did you never bow before that of Shakespeare ? said the man in black , addressing himself to me , after a low bow to Belle . 
Antonio , or Ignacio , or of a greater personage still ! I know what you are going to say , he cried , interrupting me , as I was about to speak . 
I am surprised that they have not been forgotten long ago I am no admirer of them . 
But I can't imagine , said I , how you will put aside the authority of Moses . 
'Christ might err as a man , said he , 'but the Pope can never err , being God . 
The whole story is related in the Nipotismo . 
? It was said that they persecuted terribly , but who said so ? The Christians . 
The Christians could have given them a lesson in the art of persecution , and eventually did so . 
None but Christians have ever been good persecutors well , the old religion succumbed , Christianity prevailed , for the ferocious is sure to prevail over the gentle . 
But you reject his image , sad the man in black better reject his words than his image no religion can exist long which rejects a good bodily image . 
How came you to know anything about him ? said the man in black , with a look of some surprise . 
Some of us poor Protestants tinkers , said I , though we live in dingles , are also acquainted with a thing or two . 
It would be quite unnecessary , said I I would much sooner hear you talk about Krishna , his words and image . 
For example , said I , upon this rock I will found my church . 
He ! he ! said the man in black you must really become one of us . 
But what has the New Testament to do with heathen customs , said I , except to destroy them ? More than you suppose , said the man in black . 
The New Testament is crowded with allusions to heathen customs , and with words connected with pagan sorcery . 
Now , with respect to words , I would fain have you , who pretend to be a philologist , tell me the meaning of Amen . 
We got it from our ancestors , the priests of ancient Rome and they got the word from their ancestors of the East , the priests of Buddh and Brahma . 
And what is the meaning of the word ? I demanded . 
Shame on you , Belle , said I consider the obligations of hospitality . 
Pray be quiet , Belle , said I. You had better help yourself , said I , addressing myself to the man in black , the lady is angry with you . 
CHAPTER IV The Proposal The Scotch Novel Latitude Miracles Pestilent Heretics Old Fraser Wonderful Texts No Armenian . 
I think you said some time ago that one of your motives for coming hither was to induce me to enlist under the banner of Rome . 
Would you enlist my companion as well ? I demanded . 
We should be only too proud to have her among us , whether she comes with you or alone , said the man in black , with a polite bow to Belle . 
We will now proceed to business , said I. You must be aware that we English are generally considered a self interested people . 
And with considerable justice , said the man in black , drinking . 
Well , you are a person of acute perception , and I will presently make it evident to you that it would be to your interest to join with us . 
I tell you confidently that our popish females would make a saint , nay , a God of you they are fools enough for anything . 
I am sure that you could help us to deal with him sometimes with your humour , sometimes with your learning , and perhaps occasionally with your fists . 
Holy Mother Maria Theresa glorified and celestial saint , I have the honour of drinking to your health , and the man in black drank . 
Well , Belle , said I , what have you to say to the gentleman's proposal ? That if he goes on in this way I will break his glass against his mouth . 
You have heard the lady's answer , said I. I have , said the man in black , and shall not press the matter . 
No offence , madam , no offence , pray retain your seat , said he , observing that Belle had started up I mean no offence . 
Well , if you will not consent to be an abbess , perhaps you will consent to follow this young Zingaro , and to co operate with him and us . 
I am a priest , madam , and can join you both in an instant , CONNUBIO STABILI , as I suppose the knot has not been tied already . 
Hold your mumping gibberish , said Belle , and leave the dingle this moment , for though 'tis free to every one , you have no right to insult me in it . 
I should wish to have your answer to my proposal first , said he . 
Well , then , here you shall have it I will not entertain your proposal I detest your schemes they are both wicked and foolish . 
It was nearly extirpated in these regions , but it is springing up again , owing to circumstances . 
Some of them have really come over to us . 
Then the love of what is foreign is a great friend to us this love is chiefly confined to the middle and upper classes . 
Some admire the French , and imitate them others must needs be Spaniards , dress themselves up in a zamarra , stick a cigar in their mouth , and say , 'Carajo . 
The very Scotch Presbyterians , since they have read the novels , are become all but Papists I speak advisedly , having lately been amongst them . 
There's stuff for you ! Not that I object to the first part of the ditty . 
Don't be too sure of that , said the man in black you know little of Popery if you imagine that it cannot extinguish love of country , even in a Scotchman . 
A thorough going Papist and who more thorough going than myself ? cares nothing for his country and why should he ? he belongs to a system , and not to a country . 
Rome is a very sensible old body , said the man in black , and little cares what her children say , provided they do her bidding . 
She knows several things , and amongst others , that no servants work so hard and faithfully as those who curse their masters at every stroke they do . 
She was not fool enough to be angry with the Miquelets of Alba , who renounced her , and called her 'puta' all the time they were cutting the throats of the Netherlanders . 
They believe in the Alcoran des Cordeliers that is , those who have read it but they make no sign . 
The system , said the man in black , is a grand one , with unbounded vitality . 
Compare it with your Protestantism , and you will see the difference . 
Popery is ever at work , whilst Protestantism is supine . 
A pretty church , indeed , the Protestant ! Why , it can't even work a miracle . 
Can your church work miracles ? I demanded . 
That was the very question , said the man in black , which the ancient British clergy asked of Austin Monk , after they had been fools enough to acknowledge their own inability . 
'We don't pretend to work miracles do you ? 'Oh ! dear me , yes , said Austin 'we find no difficulty in the matter . 
We can raise the dead , we can make the blind see and to convince you , I will give sight to the blind . 
So we manage matters ! A pretty church , that old British church , which could not work miracles quite as helpless as the modern one . 
Clearly , said the man in black that's what they ought to have done but they were fools without a single resource . 
Here he took a sip at his glass . 
But they did not believe in the miracle ? said I. And what did their not believing avail them ? said the man in black . 
Austin remained master of the field , and they went away holding their heads down , and muttering to themselves . 
has lately been performing miracles in Ireland , destroying devils that had got possession of people he has been eminently successful . 
You must not imagine , said I , that all Protestants are supine some of them appear to be filled with unbounded zeal . 
They deal , it is true , not in lying miracles , but they propagate God's Word . 
I remember only a few months ago , having occasion for a Bible , going to an establishment , the object of which was to send Bibles all over the world . 
The countenance of the man in black slightly fell . 
I know the people to whom you allude , said he indeed , unknown to them , I have frequently been to see them , and observed their ways . 
I tell you frankly that there is not a set of people in this kingdom who have caused our church so much trouble and uneasiness . 
Whether he suspected who I was , I know not but I did not like his look at all , and do not intend to go again . 
Old Rome will win , so you had better join her . 
And the man in black drained the last drop in his glass . 
Never , said I , will I become the slave of Rome . 
I thought it had been seared with a brand of iron . 
He was very fond of calling the church by that name , and other popes have taken it up . 
She will allow you to call her by it , if you belong to her . 
I shall call her so , said I , without belonging to her , or asking her permission . 
I have read all about that in 'Keysler's Travels , said I do you tell her that I would not touch her with a pair of tongs , unless to seize her nose . 
She is fond of lucre , said the man in black but does not grudge a faithful priest a little private perquisite , and he took out a very handsome gold repeater . 
It is getting late , said I I care not for perquisites . 
So you will not join us ? said the man in black . 
Old Fraser , of Lovat , said I , the prince of all conspirators and machinators he made sure of placing the Pretender on the throne of these realms . 
I was born at Madrid , of pure , OIME , Fraser blood . 
After some years at college but why should I tell you my history ? you know it already perfectly well , probably much better than myself . 
I have read his life by Arbuthnot , it is in the library of our college . 
He then arose and without further salutation departed from the dingle , in which I never saw him again . 
How , in the name of wonder , came you to know that man's name ? said Belle , after he had been gone some time . 
I , Belle ? I knew nothing of the fellow's name , I assure you . 
But you mentioned his name . 
If I did , it was merely casually , by way of illustration . 
Belle , prepare tea this moment , or dread my anger . 
I have not a gold headed cane like old Fraser of Lovat , but I have , what some people would dread much more , an Armenian rune stick . 
CHAPTER V Fresh Arrivals Pitching the Tent Certificated Wife High flying Notions . 
Thereupon hurrying up the ascent , I presently found myself outside the dingle . 
A rather numerous body of my ancient friends and allies occupied the ground in the vicinity of the mouth of the dingle . 
Good day to you , sir , said Mrs. Petulengro you look , as usual , charmingly , and speak so , too you have not forgot your manners . 
It is not all gold that glitters , said Mrs. Chikno . 
However , good morrow to you , young rye . 
I can't indeed , said Mrs. Chikno . 
And why not , sister ? Because I place no confidence in your words , brother as I said before , you countenances him . 
Well , said I , I know nothing of your private concerns I am come on an errand . 
Isopel Berners , down in the dell there , requests the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro's company at breakfast . 
She will be happy also to see you , madam , said I , addressing Mrs. Chikno . 
Is that young female your wife , young man ? said Mrs. Chikno . 
My wife ? said I. Yes , young man your wife , your lawful certificated wife ? No , said I she is not my wife . 
Then I will not visit with her , said Mrs. Chikno I countenance nothing in the roving line . 
What do you mean by the roving line ? I demanded . 
What do I mean by the roving line ? Why , by it I mean such conduct as is not tatcheno . 
I have suffered too much by my own certificated husband's outbreaks in that line to afford anything of the kind the slightest shadow of countenance . 
In whatever line it was , said Mrs. Petulengro , the offer was a good one . 
So you see Yes , yes , said Mrs. Chikno , I see , what I before thought , that it was altogether in the uncertificated line . 
Young gentleman , said she , pray present my compliments to Miss Isopel Berners , and inform her that I am very sorry that I cannot accept her polite invitation . 
With respect to my husband he can answer for himself , as I , not being of a jealous disposition , never interferes with his matters . 
The kettle was by this time boiling . 
We sat down , and , as we breakfasted , I gave Isopel Berners another lesson in the Armenian language . 
CHAPTER VI The Promised Visit Roman Fashion Wizard and Witch Catching at Words The Two Females Dressing of Hair The New Roads Belle's Altered Appearance Herself Again . 
ABOUT mid day Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro came to the dingle to pay the promised visit . 
On perceiving them I forthwith went to receive them . 
He had leggings of buff cloth , furred at the bottom and upon his feet were highlows . 
Under his left arm was a long black whalebone riding whip , with a red lash , and an immense silver knob . 
Upon his head was a hat with a high peak , somewhat of the kind which the Spaniards call CALANE , so much in favour with the bravos of Seville and Madrid . 
Now , when I have added that Mr. Petulengro had on a very fine white holland shirt , I think I have described his array . 
Mrs. Petulengro I beg pardon for not having spoken of her first was also arrayed very much in the Roman fashion . 
Her hair , which was exceedingly black and lustrous , fell in braids on either side of her head . 
In her ears were rings , with long drops of gold . 
Round her neck was a string of what seemed very much like very large pearls , somewhat tarnished , however , and apparently of considerable antiquity . 
Hold your tongue , sir , said Mrs. Petulengro you make me ashamed of you with your vulgar ditties . 
We are come a visiting now , and everything low should be left behind . 
All fools , said Mrs. Petulengro , catch at words , and very naturally , as by so doing they hope to prevent the possibility of rational conversation . 
Catching at words confined to pothouse farmers , and village witty bodies ! No , not to Jasper Petulengro . 
Ill favoured dogs they were and their attempts at what they called wit almost as unfortunate as their countenances . 
Well , said I , madam , we will drop all catchings and carpings for the present . 
Pray take your seat on this stool , whilst I go and announce to Miss Isopel Berners your arrival . 
Thereupon I went to Belle's habitation , and informed her that Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro had paid us a visit of ceremony , and were awaiting her at the fire place . 
Pray go and tell them that I am busy , said Belle , who was engaged with her needle . 
I do not feel disposed to take part in any such nonsense . 
I shall do no such thing , said I and I insist upon your coming forthwith , and showing proper courtesy to your visitors . 
If you do not , their feelings will be hurt , and you are aware that I cannot bear that people's feelings should be outraged . 
Come this moment , or Or what ? said Belle , half smiling . 
I was about to say something in Armenian , said I. Well , said Belle , laying down her work , I will come . 
No , said Belle , I will make no alteration in my appearance you told me to come this moment , and you shall be obeyed . 
So Belle and I advanced towards our guests . 
As we drew nigh Mr. Petulengro took off his hat , and made a profound obeisance to Belle , whilst Mrs. Petulengro rose from the stool , and made a profound curtsey . 
Belle , in demeanour calm and proud the gypsy graceful , but full of movement and agitation . 
And then how different were those two in stature ! The head of the Romany rawnie scarcely ascended to the breast of Isopel Berners . 
I could see that Mrs. Petulengro gazed on Belle with unmixed admiration so did her husband . 
He stand up against this rawnie ! why , the look she has given me would knock the fellow down . 
I have heard of her often enough , and have seen her once or twice , though not so near as now . 
I wonder whether you and he have had any tongue work already . 
We have dressed ourselves in our best Roman way , in order to do honour to you perhaps you do not like it if so , I am sorry . 
I have no French clothes , madam if I had any , madam , I would have come in them , in order to do you more honour . 
I like to see you much better as you are , said Belle people should keep to their own fashions , and yours is very pretty . 
I should esteem your allowing me a great mark of condescension . 
Then why did you turn off the lord , and take up with me ? said Mr. Petulengro that same lord was fair enough all about him . 
People do when they are young and silly what they sometimes repent of when they are of riper years and understandings . 
I sometimes think that had I not been something of a simpleton , I might at this time be a great court lady . 
You hear what the young rye says ? said Mrs. Petulengro . 
I am sure you will oblige the young rye , if not myself . 
Many people would be willing to oblige the young rye , if he would but ask them but he is not in the habit of asking favours . 
I don't mean for her word perhaps he will some day ask you for your word . 
If so Why , here you are , after railing at me for catching at words , catching at a word yourself , said Mr. Petulengro . 
Hold your tongue , sir , said Mrs. Petulengro . 
Don't interrupt me in my discourse if I caught at a word now , I am not in the habit of doing so . 
I am no conceited body no newspaper Neddy no pothouse witty person . 
I shall not do it to oblige him , said Belle the young rye , as you call him , is nothing to me . 
Well , then , to oblige me , said Mrs. Petulengro do allow me to become your poor tire woman . 
Thank you your hair is very beautiful , madam , she continued , as she proceeded to braid Belle's hair so is your countenance . 
Should you ever go to the great city , among the grand folks , you would make a sensation , madam . 
I have made one myself , who am dark the chi she is kauley , which last word signifies black , which I am not , though rather dark . 
There is no colour like white , madam it's so lasting , so genteel . 
Gentility will carry the day , madam , even with the young rye . 
He will ask words of the black lass , but beg the word of the fair . 
In the meantime Mr. Petulengro and myself entered into conversation . 
I had asked Tawno to go , but his wife would not let him . 
Now , madam , said Mrs. Petulengro , I have braided your hair in our fashion you look very beautiful , madam more beautiful , if possible , than before . 
Belle now rose , and came forward with her tire woman . 
Mr. Petulengro was loud in his applause , but I said nothing , for I did not think Belle was improved in appearance by having submitted to the ministry of Mrs. Petulengro's hand . 
Nature never intended Belle to appear as a gypsy she had made her too proud and serious . 
I have looked in one already , said Belle and the glass does not flatter . 
I assure you , that you never looked so well before and I hope that , from this moment , you will wear your hair in this way . 
And who is to braid it in this way ? said Belle , smiling . 
I , madam , said Mrs. Petulengro I will braid it for you every morning , if you will but be persuaded to join us . 
Do so , madam , and I think , if you did , the young rye would do so too . 
The young rye is nothing to me , nor I to him , said Belle we have stayed some time together but our paths will soon be apart . 
Now , farewell , for I am about to take a journey . 
And you will go out with your hair as I have braided it , said Mrs. Petulengro if you do , everybody will be in love with you . 
No , said Belle hither to I have allowed you to do what you please , but henceforth I shall have my own way . 
Come , wife , said Mr. Petulengro we will no longer intrude upon the rye and rawnie there is such a thing as being troublesome . 
Thereupon Mr. Petulengro and his wife took their leave , with many salutations . 
Then you are going ? said I , when Belle and I were left alone . 
Yes , said Belle I am going on a journey my affairs compel me . 
But you will return again ? said I. Yes , said Belle , I shall return once more . 
Yes , said I , that was before I knew you but having lived with you here , I should be very loth to live here without you . 
Indeed , said Belle I did not know that I was of so much consequence to you . 
Well , the day is wearing away I must go and harness Traveller to the cart . 
I will do that , said I , or anything else you may wish me . 
Go and prepare yourself I will see after Traveller and the cart . 
Belle departed to her tent , and I set about performing the task I had undertaken . 
In about half an hour Belle again made her appearance she was dressed neatly and plainly . 
Her hair was no longer in the Roman fashion , in which Pakomovna had plaited it , but was secured by a comb she held a bonnet in her hand . 
Is there anything else I can do for you ? I demanded . 
There are two or three bundles by my tent , which you can put into the cart , said Belle . 
I put the bundles into the cart , and then led Traveller and the cart up the winding path to the mouth of the dingle , near which was Mr. Petulengro's encampment . 
At the top , I delivered the reins into her hands we looked at each other stedfastly for some time . 
Belle then departed , and I returned to the dingle , where , seating myself on my stone , I remained for upwards of an hour in thought . 
CHAPTER VII The Festival The Gypsy Song Piramus of Rome The Scotchman Gypsy Names . 
ON the following day there was much feasting amongst the Romany chals of Mr. Petulengro's party . 
Throughout the forenoon the Romany chies did scarcely anything but cook flesh , and the flesh which they cooked was swine's flesh . 
About two o'clock , the chals dividing themselves into various parties , sat down and partook of the fare , which was partly roasted , partly sodden . 
I dined that day with Mr. Petulengro and his wife and family , Ursula , Mr. and Mrs. Chikno , and Sylvester and his two children . 
All our party ate with a good appetite , except myself , who , feeling rather melancholy that day , had little desire to eat . 
During the dinner a horn filled with ale passed frequently around I drank of it more than once , and felt inspirited by the draughts . 
I was about to fall asleep also , when I heard the sound of music and song . 
CHIKNO To mande shoon ye Romany chals Who besh in the pus about the yag , I'll pen how we drab the baulo , I'll pen how we drab the baulo . 
And then we kairs the drab opre , And then we jaws to the farming ker , To mang a beti habben , A beti poggado habben . 
Coliko , coliko saulo we Apopli to the farming ker Will wel and mang him mullo , Will wel and mang his truppo . 
And so we kairs , and so we kairs The baulo in the rarde mers We mang him on the saulo , And rig to the tan the baulo . 
And then we toves the wendror well Till sore the wendror iuziou se , Till kekkeno drab's adrey lis , Till drab there's kek adrey lis . 
And then his truppo well we hatch , Kin levinor at the kitchema , And have a kosko habben , A kosko Romano habben . 
The boshom engro kils , he kils , The tawnie juva gils , she gils A puro Romano gillie , Now shoon the Romano gillie . 
We then make up the poison , and then we take our way to the house of the farmer , as if to beg a bit of victuals , a little broken victuals . 
Early on the morrow , we will return to the farm house , and beg the dead porker , the body of the dead porker . 
And so we do , even so we do the porker dieth during the night on the morrow we beg the porker , and carry to the tent the porker . 
And then we wash the inside well , till all the inside is perfectly clean , till there's no bane within it , not a poison grain within it . 
And then we roast the body well , send for ale to the alehouse , and have a merry banquet , a merry Roman banquet . 
The fellow with the fiddle plays , he plays the little lassie sings , she sings an ancient Roman ditty now hear the Roman ditty . 
There's some kernel in those songs , brother , said Mr. Petulengro , when the songs and music were over . 
Yes , said I they are certainly very remarkable songs . 
I say , Jasper , I hope you have not been drabbing baulor lately . 
And suppose we have , brother , what then ? Why , it is a very dangerous practice , to say nothing of the wickedness of it . 
Necessity has no law , brother . 
That is true , said I I have always said so , but you are not necessitous , and should not drab baulor . 
Brother , you occasionally utter a word or two of common sense . 
What have you to say to that ? That I am very glad of it . 
Had you tasted that pork , brother , you would have found that it was sweet and tasty , which balluva that is drabbed can hardly be expected to be . 
We have no reason to drab baulor at present , we have money and credit but necessity has no law . 
Our forefathers occasionally drabbed baulor some of our people may still do such a thing , but only from compulsion . 
Do you know what I most dislike , brother ? I do not , unless it be the constable , Jasper . 
It is not the constable it's a beggar on horseback , brother . 
What do you mean by a beggar on horseback ? Why , a scamp , brother , raised above his proper place , who takes every opportunity of giving himself fine airs . 
About a week ago , my people and myself camped on a green by a plantation in the neighbourhood of a great house . 
'Why , then , if that be the case , fellow , I will tell you it is e'en spaeing , said he , very seriously . 
'Perhaps it's Scotch also for that ? 'What do ye mean by speaking in that guise to a gentleman ? said he 'you insolent vagabond , without a name or a country . 
At that , brother , the gentlemen burst into a roar of laughter , and all the ladies tittered . 
You were rather severe on the Scotchman , Jasper . 
Scotchmen are never so fat as that , said I , unless indeed , they have been a long time pensioners of England . 
Then there's your wife's name , Pakomovna then there's Ursula and Morella . 
Then , brother , there's Ercilla . 
Ercilla ! the name of the great poet of Spain , how wonderful then Leviathan . 
The name of a ship , brother Leviathan was named after a ship , so don't make a wonder out of her . 
But there's Sanpriel and Synfye . 
I hope Come , no hoping ! She got it from her grandmother , who died at the age of a hundred and three , and sleeps in Coggeshall churchyard . 
Whence could they have got it ? Why , perhaps where they got their names , brother . 
A gentleman , who had travelled much , once told me that he had seen the sister of it about the neck of an Indian queen . 
You have heard of the Russians , Jasper ? Yes , brother and seen some . 
I saw their crallis at the time of the peace he was not a bad looking man for a Russian . 
By the bye , Jasper , I'm half inclined to think that crallis is a Slavish word . 
I saw something like it in a lil called 'Voltaire's Life of Charles . 
How you should have come by such names and words is to me incomprehensible . 
You seem posed , brother . 
I really know very little about you , Jasper . 
Very little indeed , brother . 
You will say that was wrong perhaps it was . 
Well , Sunday will be here in a day or two , when we will go to church , where possibly we shall hear a sermon on the disastrous consequences of lying . 
I found Mr. Petulengro seated by the door of his tent , smoking his pipe , in rather an ungenteel undress . 
Well , Jasper , said I , are you ready to go to church ? for if you are , I am ready to accompany you . 
Thereupon I returned to my dingle , where I passed several hours in conning the Welsh Bible , which the preacher , Peter Williams , had given me . 
At last I gave over reading , took a slight refreshment , and was about to emerge from the dingle , when I heard the voice of Mr. Petulengro calling me . 
I went up again to the encampment , where I found Mr. Petulengro , his wife , and Tawno Chikno , ready to proceed to church . 
Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro were dressed in Roman fashion , though not in the full blown manner in which they had paid their visit to Isopel and myself . 
Tawno had on a clean white slop , with a nearly new black beaver , with very broad rims , and the nap exceedingly long . 
It was surrounded by lofty beech trees of brilliant green foliage . 
We entered the gate , Mrs. Petulengro leading the way , and proceeded to a small door near the east end of the church . 
As we advanced , the sound of singing within the church rose upon our ears . 
Arrived at the small door , Mrs. Petulengro opened it and entered , followed by Tawno Chikno . 
Mrs. Petulengro , however , appeared to feel not the least embarrassment , but tripped along the aisle with the greatest nonchalance . 
This functionary motioned towards the lower end of the church , where were certain benches , partly occupied by poor people and boys . 
I took up a prayer book , on which was engraved an earl's coronet . 
The clergyman uttered , I will arise , and go to my father . 
England's sublime liturgy had commenced . 
I had occasionally done so when a child , and had suddenly woke up . 
The clergyman now ascended the pulpit , arrayed in his black gown . 
The clergyman gave out his text , and began to preach . 
My friends , he added , if the man is a fool who barters his soul for the whole world , what a fool he must be who barters his soul for nothing . 
CHAPTER IX Return from Church The Cuckoo and Gypsy Spiritual Discourse . 
THE service over , my companions and myself returned towards the encampment , by the way we came . 
Some of the humble part of the congregation laughed and joked at us as we passed . 
Mr. Petulengro and his wife , however , returned their laughs and jokes with interest . 
Mrs. Petulengro and Tawno Chikno walked together , even as they had come whilst Mr. Petulengro and myself followed at a little distance . 
That was a very fine preacher we heard , said I to Mr. Petulengro , after we had crossed the stile into the fields . 
He looks rather melancholy , Jasper . 
He lost his wife several years ago , who , they say , was one of the most beautiful women ever seen . 
Those two nice young gentlewomen , whom you saw with the female childer , are his daughters . 
You seem to know all about him , Jasper . 
You should learn to read , Jasper . 
We have no time , brother . 
Are you not frequently idle ? Never , brother when we are not engaged in our traffic , we are engaged in taking our relaxation so we have no time to learn . 
You really should make an effort . 
If you were disposed to learn to read , I would endeavour to assist you . 
You would be all the better for knowing how to read . 
In what way , brother ? Why , you could read the Scriptures , and , by so doing , learn your duty towards your fellow creatures . 
We know that already , brother the constables and justices have contrived to knock that tolerably into our heads . 
Yet you frequently break the laws . 
So , I believe , do now and then those who know how to read , brother . 
Very little indeed , Jasper . 
Well , then , you ought to be , Jasper . 
Isn't it a kind of roguish , chaffing bird , brother ? I believe it is , Jasper . 
Nobody knows whence it comes , brother ? I believe not , Jasper . 
Very poor , brother , not a nest of its own ? So they say , Jasper . 
With every person's bad word , brother ? Yes , Jasper , every person is mocking it . 
Tolerably merry , brother ? Yes , tolerably merry , Jasper . 
Of no use at all , brother ? None whatever , Jasper . 
Well , brother , what's a Romany chal ? You must answer that question yourself , Jasper . 
A roguish , chaffing fellow , a'n't he , brother ? Ay , ay , Jasper . 
Of no use at all , brother ? Just so , Jasper I see Something very much like a cuckoo , brother ? I see what you are after , Jasper . 
You would like to get rid of us , wouldn't you ? Why no , not exactly . 
You would wish to turn the cuckoos into barn door fowls , wouldn't you ? Can't say I should , Jasper , whatever some people might wish . 
And the chals and chies into radical weavers and factory wenches , hey , brother ? Can't say that I should , Jasper . 
You are certainly a picturesque people , and in many respects an ornament both to town and country painting and lil writing too are under great obligations to you . 
I think if we were without you , we should begin to miss you . 
Just as you would the cuckoos , if they were all converted into barn door fowls . 
Everybody speaks ill of us both , and everybody is glad to see both of us again . 
How should a bird have a soul ? And how should a man ? Oh , we know very well that a man has a soul . 
How do you know it ? We know very well . 
Then how could you swear to it ? A pretty figure you would make in a court of justice , to swear to a thing which you never saw . 
Hold up your head , fellow . 
Our people when they are in a hobble always like to employ him , though he is somewhat dear . 
I have some kind of remembrance of it , brother . 
Then , again , I heard you say that the dook of Abershaw rode every night on horseback down the wooded hill . 
I say , brother , what a wonderful memory you have ! I wish I had not , Jasper but I can't help it , it is my misfortune . 
Misfortune ! well , perhaps it is at any rate it is very ungenteel to have such a memory . 
I did , did I ? Lor' what a memory you have , brother . 
But you are not sure that I hold that opinion now . 
Indeed , after such a sermon as we have been hearing , I should be very shocked if you held such an opinion . 
However , brother , don't be sure I do not , however shocking such an opinion may be to you . 
What an incomprehensible people you are , Jasper . 
We are rather so , brother indeed , we have posed wiser heads than yours before now . 
You seem to care for so little , and yet you rove about a distinct race . 
I say , brother ! Yes , Jasper . 
What do you think of our women ? They have certainly very singular names , Jasper . 
Names ! Lavengro ! However , brother , if you had been as fond of things as of names , you would never have been a pal of ours . 
What do you mean , Jasper ? A'n't they rum animals ? They have tongues of their own , Jasper . 
Did you ever feel their teeth and nails , brother ? Never , Jasper , save Mrs. Herne's . 
I have always been very civil to them , so They let you alone . 
I say , brother , some part of the secret is in them . 
They seem rather flighty , Jasper . 
Ay , ay , brother ! Rather fond of loose discourse ! Rather so , brother . 
Can you always trust them , Jasper ? We never watch them , brother . 
Can they always trust you ? Not quite so well as we can them . 
Ay , but would not the chi part with the chal for a duke , Jasper ? My Pakomovna gave up the duke for me , brother . 
But she occasionally talks of him , Jasper . 
Yes , brother , but Pakomovna was born on a common not far from the sign of the gammon . 
Gammon of bacon , I suppose . 
Yes , brother but gammon likewise means I know it does , Jasper it means fun , ridicule , jest it is an ancient Norse word , and is found in the Edda . 
Lor' , brother ! how book learned you be . 
Then you think you might trust your wife with the duke ? I think I could , brother , or even with yourself . 
Myself , Jasper ! Oh , I never troubled my head about your wife but I suppose there have been love affairs between gorgios and Romany chies . 
Why , novels are stuffed with such matters and then even one of your own songs says so the song which Ursula was singing the other afternoon . 
That is somewhat of an old song , brother , and is sung by the chies as a warning at our solemn festivals . 
Well ! but there's your sister in law , Ursula , herself , Jasper . 
Ursula , herself , brother ? You were talking of my having her , Jasper . 
Well , brother , why didn't you have her ? Would she have had me ? Of course , brother . 
You are so much of a Roman , and speak Romany so remarkably well . 
I should like to ask her a question or two , Jasper , in connection with that song . 
You can do no better , brother . 
Here we are at the camp . 
After tea , take Ursula under a hedge , and ask her a question or two in connection with that song . 
CHAPTER X Sunday Evening Ursula Action at Law Meridiana Married Already . 
I TOOK tea that evening with Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro and Ursula , outside of their tent . 
Tawno was not present , being engaged with his wife in his own tabernacle Sylvester was there , however , lolling listlessly upon the ground . 
As I looked upon this man , I thought him one of the most disagreeable fellows I had ever seen . 
His features were ugly , and , moreover , as dark as pepper and , besides being dark , his skin was dirty . 
As for his dress , it was torn and sordid . 
His chest was broad , and his arms seemed powerful but , upon the whole , he looked a very caitiff . 
I am sorry that man has lost his wife , thought I for I am sure he will never get another . 
What surprises me is , that he ever found a woman disposed to unite her lot with his ! After tea I got up and strolled about the field . 
My thoughts were upon Isopel Berners . 
I wondered where she was , and how long she would stay away . 
At length becoming tired and listless , I determined to return to the dingle , and resume the reading of the Bible at the place where I had left off . 
Suddenly , on turning round the southern corner of the copse , which surrounded the dingle , I perceived Ursula seated under a thornbush . 
I thought I never saw her look prettier than then , dressed as she was , in her Sunday's best . 
Good evening , Ursula , said I I little thought to have the pleasure of seeing you here . 
I think I will sit down with you , Ursula for , after all , reading godly books in dingles at eve , is rather sombre work . 
Yes , I think I will sit down with you and I sat down by her side . 
Well , brother , now you have sat down with me under the hedge , what have you to say to me ? Why , I hardly know , Ursula . 
Oh ! ah ! I remember do you know , Ursula , that I take a great interest in you ? Thank ye , brother kind of you , at any rate . 
You must be exposed to a great many temptations , Ursula . 
A great many indeed , brother . 
Then you think gold and fine things temptations , Ursula ? Of course , brother , very great temptations don't you think them so ? Can't say I do , Ursula . 
Then more fool you , brother but have the kindness to tell me what you would call a temptation ? Why , for example , the hope of honour and renown , Ursula . 
I should have thought , Ursula , that the Romany chals , roaming about the world as they do , free and independent , were above being led by such trifles . 
Then money and fine clothes would induce you to do anything , Ursula ? Ay , ay , brother , anything . 
To chore , Ursula ? Like enough , brother gypsies have been transported before now for choring . 
To hokkawar ? Ay , ay I was telling dukkerin only yesterday , brother . 
In fact , to break the law in everything ? Who knows , brother , who knows ? as I said before , gold and fine clothes are great temptations . 
Well , Ursula , I am sorry for it , I should never have thought you so depraved . 
To think that I am seated by one who is willing to to Go on , brother . 
The the Go on , brother . 
The what , brother ? said Ursula , starting from her seat . 
The the I'll not say it but I only wish I had something in my hand . 
If I have offended , Ursula , I am very sorry for it any offence I may have given you was from want of understanding you . 
Come , pray be seated , I have much to question you about to talk to you about . 
Seated , not I ! It was only just now that you gave me to understand that you was ashamed to be seated by me , a thief , a liar . 
I tell you what , brother , if you ever sinivate again that I could be the third thing , so help me duvel ! I'll do you a mischief . 
By my God I will ! Well , Ursula , I assure you that I shall sinivate , as you call it , nothing of the kind about you . 
You confess that you are very fond of gold . 
Now , how is it that you don't barter your virtue for gold sometimes ? I am a philosopher , Ursula , and like to know everything . 
You must be every now and then exposed to great temptation , Ursula for you are of a beauty calculated to captivate all hearts . 
And thereupon Ursula sat down by my side . 
Well , Ursula , we will , if you please , discourse on the subject of your temptations . 
And do not people often address you in a very free manner ? Frequently , brother and I give them tolerably free answers . 
Do people ever offer to make you presents ? I mean presents of value , such as Silk handkerchiefs , shawls , and trinkets very frequently , brother . 
And what do you do , Ursula ? I takes what people offers me , brother , and stows it away as soon as I can . 
Well , do the people who give you the fine things never expect a choomer in return ? Very frequently , brother . 
And do you ever grant it ? Never , brother . 
How do you avoid it ? I gets away as soon as possible , brother . 
But if your terrible language has no effect ? Then I screams for the constable , and if he comes not , I uses my teeth and nails . 
And are they always sufficient ? I have only had to use them twice , brother but then I found them sufficient . 
Well , Ursula , the world will hardly give you credit for such indifference . 
What cares we for the world , brother ! we are not of the world . 
But your fathers , brothers , and uncles , give you credit , I suppose , Ursula . 
They know they can trust you , Ursula ? Ay , ay , brother and , what's more , I knows I can trust myself . 
So you would merely go out to make a fool of him , Ursula ? Merely go out to make a fool of him , brother , I assure you . 
But such proceedings really have an odd look , Ursula . 
Amongst gorgios , very so , brother . 
'What's the matter , Ursula ? says my coko . 
'Nothing at all , I replies , 'save and except that gorgio , in his greens and his Lincolns , says that I have played the with him . 
'You are a liar , says I , and forthwith I breaks his head with the stick which I holds behind me , and which my coko has conveyed privily into my hand . 
And this is your action at law , Ursula ? Yes , brother , this is my action at club law . 
Did you ever try it , Ursula ? Can't say I ever did , brother , but it would do . 
And how did you ever learn such a method of proceeding ? Why , 't is advised by gypsy liri , brother . 
I wish you now to clear up a certain point which is rather mysterious to me . 
A sad let down , said Ursula . 
Well , said I , sad or not , there's the song that speaks of the thing , which you give me to understand is not . 
Well , if the thing ever was , said Ursula , it was a long time ago , and perhaps , after all , not true . 
Marriage is an honourable estate , Ursula . 
Well , brother , suppose it be ? I don't see why a Romany chi should object to enter into the honourable estate of wedlock with a gorgio . 
As for the half and halfs , said Ursula , they are a bad set and there is not a worse blackguard in England than Anselo Herne . 
All that you say may be very true , Ursula , but you admit that there are half and halfs . 
The more's the pity , brother . 
But would not plenty of money induce you ? I hate houses , brother , and those who live in them . 
Well , brother , suppose you produce your man where is he ? I was merely supposing such a person , Ursula . 
Myself ! Ursula I have no fine house to resign nor have I money . 
Why , in old Pulci's At old Fulcher's ! that's not true , brother . 
Meridiana is a Borzlam , and travels with her own people , and not with old Fulcher , who is a gorgio , and a basket maker . 
I see , said , Ursula , that it must have been altogether a different person , for I am sure that Meridiana Borzlam would never have fallen in love with Oliver . 
No , no ! Meridiana Borzlam would never have so far forgot her blood as to take up with Tom Oliver . 
You do , do you , brother ? Yes . 
You are still very beautiful , but I advise you to accept the first offer that's made to you . 
Thank you , brother , but your advice comes rather late I accepted the first offer that was made me five years ago . 
You married five years ago , Ursula ! is it possible ? Quite possible , brother , I assure you . 
And you believed him ? I'll tell you , brother , for your instruction , that there is not in the whole world a greater liar than Jasper Petulengro . 
I shall go to my house . 
Do sit a little longer , sister Ursula . 
I most heartily congratulate you on your marriage . 
But where is this same Lovell ? I have never seen him I wish to congratulate him too . 
You are quite as handsome as the Meridiana of Pulci , Ursula , ay , or the Despina of Riciardetto . 
Riciardetto , Ursula , is a poem written by one Fortiguerra , about ninety years ago , in imitation of the Morgante of Pulci . 
It treats of the wars of Charlemagne and his Paladins with various barbarous nations , who came to besiege Paris . 
CHAPTER XI Ursula's Tale The Patteran The Deep Water Second Husband . 
BROTHER , said Ursula , plucking a dandelion which grew at her feet , I have always said that a more civil and pleasant spoken person than yourself can't be found . 
I have a great regard for you and your learning , and am willing to do you any pleasure in the way of words or conversation . 
Mine is not a very happy story , but as you wish to hear it , it is quite at your service . 
I then took on wonderfully , turned my eyes inside out , fell down in a seeming fit , and was carried out of the prison . 
You saw your husband's patteran ? Yes , brother . 
The gypsy patteran has always had a strange interest for me , Ursula . 
Like enough , brother but what does patteran mean ? Why , the gypsy trail , formed as I told you before . 
No more they did , brother there's only one person in England that knows , and that's myself the name for a leaf is patteran . 
Now there are two that knows it the other is yourself . 
Dear me , Ursula , how very strange ! I am much obliged to you . 
She told me the word for leaf was patteran , which our people use now for trail , having forgotten the true meaning . 
The body , after it had been in the water a long time , came up of itself , and was found floating . 
A man , by gypsy law , brother , is allowed to kick and beat his wife , and to bury her alive , if he thinks proper . 
I am a gypsy , and have nothing to say against the law . 
Your sister does not seem to stand much in awe of Jasper Petulengro , Ursula . 
I should have mentioned her before , only I wanted to know what you had to say to me and when we got into discourse , I forgot her . 
I say , brother , let me tell you your dukkerin , with respect to her , you will never I want to hear no dukkerin , Ursula . 
Do let me tell you your dukkerin , brother , you will never manage I want to hear no dukkerin , Ursula , in connection with Isopel Berners . 
Moreover , it is Sunday , we will change the subject it is surprising to me that , after all you have undergone , you should look so beautiful . 
Such a good husband ! why , I thought you told me your husband was drowned ? Yes , brother , my first husband was . 
And have you a second ? To be sure , brother . 
And who is he ? in the name of wonder . 
Who is he ? why Sylvester , to be sure . 
I tell you what , brother , I will chore , if necessary , and tell dukkerin for Sylvester , if even so heavy as scarcely to be able to stand . 
Well , if you like him , I , of course , can have no objection . 
Have you been long married ? About a fortnight , brother that dinner , the other day , when I sang the song , was given in celebration of the wedding . 
Were you married in a church , Ursula ? We were not , brother none but gorgios , cripples , and lubbenys are ever married in a church we took each other's words . 
Brother , I have been with you near three hours beneath this hedge . 
I will go to my husband . 
Does he know that you are here ? He does , brother . 
And is he satisfied ? Satisfied ! of course . 
Lor' , you gorgies ! Brother , I go to my husband and my house . 
And , thereupon , Ursula rose and departed . 
Well , brother , I did much the same , for I went and sat down behind you . 
Behind the hedge , Jasper ? Behind the hedge , brother . 
And heard all our conversation . 
Every word , brother and a rum conversation it was . 
'Tis an old saying , Jasper , that listeners never hear any good of themselves perhaps you heard the epithet that Ursula bestowed upon you . 
You deceived me about Ursula , giving me to understand she was not married . 
She was not married when I told you so , brother that is , not to Sylvester nor was I aware that she was going to marry him . 
I once thought you had a kind of regard for her , and I am sure she had as much for you as a Romany chi can have for a gorgio . 
I half expected to have heard you make love to her behind the hedge , but I begin to think you care for nothing in this world but old words and strange stories . 
You are a cunning one , brother . 
There you are mistaken , Jasper . 
If people think I am , it is because , being made up of art themselves , simplicity of character is a puzzle to them . 
Your women are certainly extraordinary creatures , Jasper . 
Didn't I say they were rum animals ? Brother , we Romans shall always stick together as long as they stick fast to us . 
Do you think they always will , Jasper ? Can't say , brother nothing lasts for ever . 
Romany chies are Romany chies still , though not exactly what they were sixty years ago . 
My wife , though a rum one , is not Mrs. Herne , brother . 
I think she is rather fond of Frenchmen and French discourse . 
I tell you what , brother , if ever gypsyism breaks up , it will be owing to our chies having been bitten by that mad puppy they calls gentility . 
CHAPTER XII The Dingle at Night The Two Sides of the Question Roman Females Filling the Kettle The Dream The Tall Figure . 
I DESCENDED to the bottom of the dingle . 
It was nearly involved in obscurity . 
Sitting down , I fixed my eyes upon the blaze , and soon fell into a deep meditation . 
I thought over the various arguments which I had either heard , or which had come spontaneously to my mind , for or against the probability of a state of future existence . 
They appeared to me to be tolerably evenly balanced . 
I then thought that it was at all events taking the safest part to conclude that there was a soul . 
Yes , methought I would come to the conclusion that one has a soul . 
Choosing the safe side , however , appeared to me to be playing a rather dastardly part . 
I had never been an admirer of people who chose the safe side in everything indeed I had always entertained a thorough contempt for them . 
I mused deeply on what she had told me as to the virtue of the females of her race . 
I liked the idea of the grand city of the world owing its origin to a people who had been in the habit of carrying their houses in their carts . 
I almost wished that I had lived some two or three hundred years ago , that I might have observed these people when they were yet stranger than at present . 
It was much more agreeable to play the gypsy or the tinker than to become either in reality . 
I had seen enough of gypsying and tinkering to be convinced of that . 
I figured myself in America , in an immense forest , clearing the land destined , by my exertions , to become a fruitful and smiling plain . 
Well , why not marry , and go and till the ground in America ? I was young , and youth was the time to marry in , and to labour in . 
I continued dozing over the fire , until rousing myself I perceived that the brands were nearly consumed , and I thought of retiring for the night . 
I arose , and was about to enter my tent , when a thought struck me . 
Thereupon , I piled more wood upon the fire , and soon succeeded in procuring a better blaze than before then , taking the kettle , I set out for the spring . 
It is only I , Tawno , said I , going to fill the kettle , as it is possible that Miss Berners may arrive this night . 
Kos ko , drawled out Tawno , and replaced the curtain . 
Passing on , I proceeded to the spring , where I filled the kettle , and then returned to the dingle . 
Who is that ? said I , whilst I felt my blood rush to my heart . 
It is I , said the voice of Isopel Berners you little expected me , I dare say well , sleep on , I do not wish to disturb you . 
But I was expecting you , said I , recovering myself , as you may see by the fire and kettle . 
I will be with you in a moment . 
Now , sit down by the fire whilst I lead the donkey and cart to the place where you stay I will unharness the animal , and presently come and join you . 
I need not trouble you , said Isopel I will go myself and see after my things . 
We will go together , said I , and then return and have some tea . 
Isopel made no objection , and in about half an hour we had arranged everything at her quarters , I then hastened and prepared tea . 
Have you made a long journey to night ? said I. A very long one , replied Belle . 
I have come nearly twenty miles since six o'clock . 
When and where was that ? said Isopel . 
Yesterday evening , said I , beneath the dingle hedge . 
Then you were talking with her beneath the hedge ? I was , said I , but only upon gypsy matters . 
Isopel was now silent for some time . 
I am very fond of having my own way , said I , but utterly selfish I am not , as I dare say I shall frequently prove to you . 
You will often find the kettle boiling when you come home . 
Not heated by you , said Isopel , with a sigh . 
Well , said I , we can go together to tell you the truth , I am rather tired of this place . 
Our paths must be separate , said Belle . 
Come , said I , take another cup of tea . 
Belle took another cup of tea , and yet another we had some indifferent conversation , after which I arose and gave her donkey a considerable feed of corn . 
Belle thanked me , shook me by the hand , and then went to her own tabernacle , and I returned to mine . 
CHAPTER XIII Visit to the Landlord His Mortifications Hunter and his Clan Resolution . 
ON the following morning , after breakfasting with Belle , who was silent and melancholy , I left her in the dingle , and took a stroll amongst the neighbouring lanes . 
I therefore directed my steps to the house , and on entering it found the landlord standing in the kitchen . 
That's the way they serve me now , said the landlord , with a sigh . 
Thank you , said the landlord but as they are gone , let them go on . 
What they have drank is not of much consequence . 
I wish I could assist you , said I , with money , but that is quite out of my power . 
However , I can give you a piece of advice . 
Don't change your religion by any means you can't hope to prosper if you do and if the brewer chooses to deal hardly with you , let him . 
Everybody would respect you ten times more provided you allowed yourself to be turned into the roads rather than change your religion , than if you got fifty pounds for renouncing it . 
I am half inclined to take your advice , said the landlord , only , to tell you the truth , I feel quite low , without any heart in me . 
Come into the bar , said I , and let us have something together you need not be afraid of my not paying for what I order . 
After spending several hours at the public house I departed , not forgetting to pay for the two bottles of ale . 
CHAPTER XIV Preparations for the Fair The Last Lesson The Verb Siriel . 
IT might be about five in the evening , when I reached the gypsy encampment . 
Here I found Mr. Petulengro , Tawno Chikno , Sylvester , and others in a great bustle , clipping and trimming certain ponies and old horses which they had brought with them . 
It was agreed that we should start early on the following morning . 
Thereupon I descended into the dingle . 
Belle was sitting before the fire , at which the kettle was boiling . 
Were you waiting for me ? I inquired . 
Yes , said Belle , I thought that you would come , and I waited for you . 
The tea things were brought forward , and we sat down . 
Have you been far ? said Belle . 
Merely to that public house , said I , to which you directed me on the second day of our acquaintance . 
Young men should not make a habit of visiting public houses , said Belle , they are bad places . 
They may be so to some people , said I , but I do not think the worst public house in England could do me any harm . 
Perhaps you are so bad already , said Belle , with a smile , that it would be impossible to spoil you . 
You may well say inflicted , said Belle , but pray spare me . 
I do not wish to hear anything about Armenian , especially this evening . 
Why this evening ? said I. Belle made no answer . 
I will not spare you , said I this evening I intend to make you conjugate an Armenian verb . 
Well , be it so , said Belle for this evening you shall command . 
To command is hramahyel , said I. Ram her ill , indeed , said Belle I do not wish to begin with that . 
No , said I , as we have come to the verbs , we will begin regularly hramahyel is a verb of the second conjugation . 
We will begin with the first . 
I have given you no cause to hate me , said Belle , looking me sorrowfully in the face . 
I was merely giving two examples , said I , and neither was directed at you . 
In those examples , to command and hate are verbs . 
Belle , in Armenian there are four conjugations of verbs the first ends in al , the second in yel , the third in oul , and the fourth in il . 
Now , have you understood me ? I am afraid , indeed , it will all end ill , said Belle . 
Hold your tongue , said I , or you will make me lose my patience . 
You have already made me nearly lose mine , said Belle . 
Let us have no unprofitable interruptions , said I the conjugations of the Armenian verbs are neither so numerous nor so difficult as the declensions of the nouns hear that , and rejoice . 
Come , we will begin with the verb hntal , a verb of the first conjugation , which signifies to rejoice . 
Come along hntam , I rejoice hntas , thou rejoicest why don't you follow , Belle ? I am sure I don't rejoice , whatever you may do , said Belle . 
The chief difficulty , Belle , said I , that I find in teaching you the Armenian grammar , proceeds from your applying to yourself and me every example I give . 
Come along hntam , I rejoice hntas , thou rejoicest hnta , he rejoices hntamk we rejoice now , repeat those words . 
I can't , said Belle , they sound more like the language of horses than human beings . 
Do you take me for ? For what ? said I. Belle was silent . 
So if I were to call you a mare without prefixing bad , you must not be offended . 
But I should though , said Belle . 
There is no such confusion of sounds in Armenian , not , at least , in the same instance . 
I can't bear this much longer , said Belle . 
Belle , I will now select for you to conjugate the prettiest verb in Armenian not only of the second , but also of all the four conjugations that verb is siriel . 
Here is the present tense siriem , siries , sire , siriemk , sirek , sirien . 
Come on , Belle , and say siriem . 
Pray oblige me , Belle , by saying siriem ! Belle still appeared to hesitate . 
You must admit , Belle , that it is much softer than hntam . 
It is so , said Belle and to oblige you I will say siriem . 
Please to repeat siriem zkiez ! Siriem zkiez ! said Belle that last word is very hard to say . 
Sorry that you think so , Belle , said I. Now please to say siria zis . 
Exceedingly well , said I. Now say , yerani the sireir zis . 
Yerani the sireir zis , said Belle . 
Capital ! said I you have now said , I love you love me ah ! would that you would love me ! And I have said all these things ? said Belle . 
Yes , said I you have said them in Armenian . 
Why so ? said I if you said them , I said them too . 
You did so , said Belle but I believe you were merely bantering and jeering . 
Then you meant nothing after all , said Belle , raising her voice . 
Let us proceed , said I sirietsi , I loved . 
You never loved any one but yourself , said Belle and what's more Sirietsits , I will love , said I sirietsies , thou wilt love . 
Never one so thoroughly heartless , said Belle . 
As old Villotte says from whose work I first contrived to pick up the rudiments of Armenian 'Est verborum transitivorum , quorum infinitivus but I forgot , you don't understand Latin . 
You do , indeed , said Belle , sobbing . 
I have deserved better at your hands than such treatment . 
I have been of an unsubdued spirit , I acknowledge , but I was always kind to you and if you have made me cry , it's a poor thing to boast of . 
Boast of ! said I a pretty thing indeed to boast of I had no idea of making you cry . 
Come , I beg your pardon what more can I do ? Come , cheer up , Belle . 
You were talking of parting don't let us part , but depart , and that together . 
Our ways lie different , said Belle . 
I don't see why they should , said I. Come , let us he off to America together . 
To America together ? said Belle , looking full at me . 
Yes , said I where we will settle down in some forest , and conjugate the verb siriel conjugally . 
Yes , said I as man and wife in America , air yew ghin . 
You are jesting , as usual , said Belle . 
Come , Belle , make up your mind , and let us be off to America and leave priests , humbug , learning , and languages behind us . 
I don't think you are jesting , said Belle but I can hardly entertain your offers however , young man , I thank you . 
You had better make up your mind at once , said I , and let us be off . 
I shan't make a bad husband , I assure you . 
Brynhilda , the valkyrie , swore that no one should ever marry her who could not fling her down . 
Perhaps you have done the same . 
The man who eventually married her , got a friend of his , who was called Sygurd , the serpent killer , to wrestle with her , disguising him in his own armour . 
Sygurd flung her down , and won her for his friend , though he loved her himself . 
I shall not use a similar deceit , nor employ Jasper Petulengro to personate me so get up , Belle , and I will do my best to fling you down . 
I require no such thing of you , or anybody , said Belle you are beginning to look rather wild . 
Just as you please , said I , to morrow I go to a fair with Mr. Petulengro , perhaps you will consider whilst I am away . 
Come , Belle , let us have some more tea . 
I wonder whether we shall be able to procure tea as good as this in the American forest . 
CHAPTER XV The Dawn of Day The Last Farewell Departure for the Fair The Fine Horse Return to the Dingle No Isopel . 
IT was about the dawn of day when I was awakened by the voice of Mr. Petulengro shouting from the top of the dingle , and bidding me get up . 
I arose instantly , and dressed myself for the expedition to the fair . 
On leaving my tent , I was surprised to observe Belle , entirely dressed , standing close to her own little encampment . 
Dear me , said I , I little expected to find you up so early . 
I suppose Jasper's call awakened you , as it did me . 
I merely lay down in my things , said Belle , and have not slept during the night . 
Well , God bless you ! said I , taking Belle by the hand . 
Belle made no answer , and I observed that her hand was very cold . 
What is the matter with you ? said I , looking her in the face . 
Belle looked at me for a moment in the eyes and then cast down her own her features were very pale . 
You are really unwell , said I , I had better not go to the fair , but stay here , and take care of you . 
No , said Belle , pray go , I am not unwell . 
Then go to your tent , said I , and do not endanger your health by standing abroad in the raw morning air . 
God bless you , Belle . 
I shall be home to night , by which time I expect you will have made up your mind if not , another lesson in Armenian , however late the hour be . 
I then wrung Belle's hand , and ascended to the plain above . 
I found the Romany party waiting for me , and everything in readiness for departing . 
Mr. Petulengro and Tawno Chikno were mounted on two old horses . 
The rest , who intended to go to the fair , amongst whom were two or three women , were on foot . 
On arriving at the extremity of the plain , I looked towards the dingle . 
Isopel Berners stood at the mouth , the beams of the early morning sun shone full on her noble face and figure . 
I waved my hand towards her . 
She slowly lifted up her right arm . 
I turned away , and never saw Isopel Berners again . 
My companions and myself proceeded on our way . 
In about two hours we reached the place where the fair was to be held . 
After breakfasting on bread and cheese and ale behind a broken stone wall , we drove our animals to the fair . 
The fair was a common cattle and horse fair there was little merriment going on , but there was no lack of business . 
As we were proceeding to one , a very fine horse , led by a jockey , made its appearance on the ground . 
Mr. Petulengro stopped short , and looked at it stedfastly Fino covar dove odoy sas miro a fine thing were that if it were but mine ! he exclaimed . 
Then why did you say just now , 'It were a fine thing if it were but yours ? said I. We 'Gyptians always say so when we see anything that we admire . 
An animal like that is not intended for a little hare like me , but for some grand gentleman like yourself . 
You talk nonsense , said I however , I wish you would ask the man the price of it . 
Mr. Petulengro , going up to the jockey , inquired the price of the horse the man , looking at him scornfully , made no reply . 
Young man , said I , going up to the jockey , do me the favour to tell me the price of that horse , as I suppose it is to sell . 
The jockey , who was a surly looking man , of about fifty , looked at me for a moment , then , after some hesitation , said , laconically , Seventy . 
Thank you , said I , and turned away . 
Buy that horse , said Mr. Petulengro , coming after me the dook tells me that in less than three months he will be sold for twice seventy . 
I will have nothing to do with him , said I besides , Jasper , I don't like his tail . 
Did you observe what a mean scrubby tail he has ? What a fool you are , brother , said Mr. Petulengro that very tail of his shows his breeding . 
No good bred horse ever yet carried a fine tail 'tis your scrubby tailed horses that are your out and outers . 
Did you ever hear of Syntax , brother ? That tail of his puts me in mind of Syntax . 
We then made the best of our way to a public house , where we had some refreshment . 
Mr. Petulengro , however , instead of thanking me , told me to mind my own bread and butter , and forthwith returned to his game . 
I continued watching the players for some hours . 
The gypsies lost considerably , and I saw clearly that the jockeys were cheating them most confoundedly . 
I therefore once more called Mr. Petulengro aside , and told him that the jockeys were cheating him , conjuring him to return to the encampment . 
Isopel Berners is waiting for me , said I , and the first words that I shall hear from her lips is that she has made up her mind . 
We shall go to America , and be so happy together . 
Very strange , thought I then dismissing the gypsy girl I sat down by the fire . 
I had no wish for tea , but sat looking on the embers , wondering what could be the motive of the sudden departure of Isopel . 
Does she mean to return ? thought I to myself . 
Husbands do not grow upon hedgerows she is merely gone after a little business and will return to morrow . 
Comforted in some degree by these hopeful imaginings , I retired to my tent , and went to sleep . 
CHAPTER XVI Gloomy Forebodings The Postman's Mother The Letter Bears and Barons The Best of Advice . 
NOTHING occurred to me of any particular moment during the following day . 
Isopel Berners did not return but Mr. Petulengro and his companions came home from the fair early in the morning . 
When I saw him , which was about midday , I found him with his face bruised and swelled . 
Two more days passed , and still Isopel Berners did not return . 
Gloomy thoughts and forebodings filled my mind . 
Once at midnight , just as I was about to fall into unconsciousness , I suddenly started up , for I was convinced that I heard the sound of wheels . 
I listened most anxiously , and the sound of wheels striking against stones was certainly plain enough . 
The next moment the sound became very loud , rather too loud , I thought , to proceed from her wheels , and then by degrees became fainter . 
I could , moreover , hear the stamping of a horse's hoof at a lumbering trot . 
Well , if I ever ! said she , as she looked about her . 
It is true , civil words cost nothing nevertheless , we do not always get them . 
There's no name upon it , said she , taking a letter out of her scrip , and looking at it . 
It is directed to the young man in Mumper's Dingle . 
Then it is for me , I make no doubt , said I , stretching out my hand to take it . 
Please to pay me ninepence first , said the old woman . 
However , said she , after a moment's thought , civility is civility , and , being rather a scarce article , should meet with some return . 
Here's the letter , young man , and I hope you will pay for it for if you do not I must pay the postage myself . 
You are the postwoman , I suppose , said I , as I took the letter . 
You say the postage is ninepence , said I , here's a shilling . 
Pray keep that for yourself , said I you deserve it for your trouble . 
Let's see it it's from some young woman or other , I dare say . 
Thank you , said I , but I can read . 
Well , I won't intrude upon you , but leave you alone with your letter . 
I wish it may contain something pleasant . 
God bless you , and with these words she departed . 
I sat down on my stone , with my letter in my hand . 
There I sat with the letter , putting off the evil moment as long as possible . 
Could it be so ? Alas ! no , presently said Foreboding . 
At last I became ashamed of my weakness . 
The letter must be opened sooner or later . 
I had no sooner done so than a paper fell out . 
I examined it it contained a lock of bright flaxen hair . 
And now , young man , I will , in the first place , say something about the manner in which I quitted you . 
FEAR GOD , and take your own part . 
There's Bible in that , young man see how Moses feared God , and how he took his own part against everybody who meddled with him . 
After reading the letter I sat for some time motionless , holding it in my hand . 
I then knew with tolerable certainty the port where she had embarked , and I almost determined to follow her , but I almost instantly determined to do no such thing . 
Is it not from Miss Berners , brother ? said he . 
I told him it was . 
Is she coming back , brother ? Never , said I she is gone to America , and has deserted me . 
I always knew that you two were never destined for each other , said he . 
How did you know that ? I inquired . 
The dook told me so , brother you are born to be a great traveller . 
Well , said I , if I had gone with her to America , as I was thinking of doing , I should have been a great traveller . 
You are to travel in another direction , brother , said he . 
I wish you would tell me all about my future wanderings , said I. I can't , brother , said Mr. Petulengro , there's a power of clouds before my eye . 
CHAPTER XVII The Public house Landlord on His Legs Again A Blow in Season The Way of the World The Grateful Mind The Horse's Neigh . 
IT was rather late on the following morning when I awoke . 
After some time , feeling myself in better spirits , I determined to pay another visit to the landlord of the public house . 
From the position of his affairs when I had last visited him I entertained rather gloomy ideas with respect to his present circumstances . 
Nothing more entirely differing from either of these anticipations could have presented itself to my view than what I saw about one o'clock in the afternoon , when I entered the house . 
Such another , said one , you will not find in a summer's day . 
No , nor in the whole of England , said the other . 
Tom of Hopton , said the first ah ! Tom of Hopton , echoed the other the man who could beat Tom of Hopton could beat the world . 
I glory in him , said the first . 
So do I , said the second , I'll back him against the world . 
Presently the landlord , as he moved about , observing me , stopped short Ah ! said he , are you here ? I am glad to see you , come this way . 
Stand back , said he to his company , as I followed him to the bar , stand back for me and this gentleman . 
Two or three young fellows were in the bar , seemingly sporting yokels , drinking sherry and smoking . 
Come , gentlemen , said the landlord , clear the bar , I must have a clear bar for me and my friend here . 
Landlord , what will you take , said one , a glass of sherry ? I know you like it . 
The customers ! said the landlord , let the scoundrels wait till you have time to serve them , or till I have leisure to see after them . 
The kitchen won't contain half of them , said his niece . 
Then let them sit out abroad , said the landlord . 
But there are not benches enough , uncle , said the niece . 
Then opening a side door which led from the bar into the back yard , he beckoned me to follow him . 
You treat your customers in rather a cavalier manner , said I , when we were alone together in the yard . 
Don't I ? said the landlord and I'll treat them more so yet now I have got the whiphand of the rascals I intend to keep it . 
I dare say you are a bit surprised with regard to the change which has come over things since you were last here . 
I'll tell you how it happened . 
I said little or nothing , for my spirits had again become very low , and I was verily scared and afraid . 
'Ah , what do you mean by calling us his people ? said the clan . 
'We are nobody's people and then there was a pretty load of abuse , and threatening to serve me out . 
'Well , said I , 'I was perhaps wrong to call them your people , and beg your pardon and theirs . 
And now you will please to pay me for what you have had yourself , and afterwards I can settle with them . 
'I shall pay you when I think fit , said Hunter . 
'Yes , said the rest , 'and so shall we . 
We shall pay you when we think fit . 
I wish you had but seen how my company looked at me and at each other . 
Two or three of them then led him away , while the rest stayed behind , and flattered me , and worshipped me , and called Hunter all kinds of dogs' names . 
What do you think of that ? Why , said I , it makes good what I read in a letter which I received yesterday . 
It is just the way of the world . 
A'n't it , said the landlord . 
Well , that a'n't all let me go on . 
Good fortune never yet came alone . 
In about an hour comes home my poor niece , almost in high sterricks with joy , smiling and sobbing . 
I really cannot help congratulating you on your good fortune , said I. That a'n't all , said the landlord . 
Why so ? said the landlord . 
I am not fit for service , said I moreover , I am about to leave this part of the country . 
As I spoke a horse neighed in the stable . 
Are you fond of horses ? Very much , said I. Then come and look at it . 
He led me into the stable , where , in a stall , stood a noble looking animal . 
Dear me , said I , I saw this horse at fair . 
Like enough , said the landlord he was there and was offered for seventy pounds , but didn't find a bidder at any price . 
What do you think of him ? He's a splendid creature . 
I am no judge of horses , said the landlord but I am told he's a firstrate trotter , good leaper , and has some of the blood of Syntax . 
What does all that signify ? the game is against his master , who is a down pin , is thinking of emigrating , and wants money confoundedly . 
He asked seventy pounds at the fair but , between ourselves , he would be glad to take fifty here . 
I almost wish , said I , that I were a rich squire . 
You would buy him then , said the landlord . 
Here he mused for some time , with a very profound look . 
It would be a rum thing , said he , if , some time or other , that horse should come into your hands . 
If she had been here , she would have said at once that that horse was fated to carry you away . 
On that point , however , I can say nothing , for under fifty pounds no one can have him . 
Are you taking that money out of your pocket to pay me for the ale ? That won't do nothing to pay I invited you this time . 
Now if you are going , you had best get into the road through the yard gate . 
I won't trouble you to make your way through the kitchen and my fine weather company confound them ! CHAPTER XVIII Mr. Petulengro's Device The Leathern Purse Consent to Purchase a Horse . 
I shouldn't wonder if you buy that horse after all , brother , said Mr. Petulengro . 
With a smile at the absurdity of such a supposition , I left him and his companion , and betook myself to the dingle . 
I begged him to desist from such foolish importunity , assuring him that I had never so much money in all my life as would enable me to purchase the horse . 
Whilst this discourse was going on , Mr. Petulengro and myself were standing together in the midst of the dingle . 
Done ! said I I have scarcely more than the fifth part of what you say . 
I know better , brother , said Mr. Petulengro if you only pull out what you have in the pocket of your slop , I am sure you will have lost your wager . 
Didn't I tell you so , brother ? said Mr. Petulengro . 
Now , in the first place , please to pay me the five shillings you have lost . 
This is only a foolish piece of pleasantry , said I you put it into my pocket whilst you were moving about me , making faces like a distracted person . 
Here , take your purse back . 
I ? said Mr. Petulengro , not I , indeed I don't think I am such a fool . 
I have won my wager , so pay me the five shillings , brother . 
Do drop this folly , said I , and take your purse and I flung it on the ground . 
Brother , said Mr. Petulengro , you were talking of quarrelling with me just now . 
I tell you now one thing , which is , that if you do not take back the purse I will quarrel with you and it shall be for good and all . 
I'll drop your acquaintance , no longer call you my pal , and not even say sarshan to you when I meet you by the roadside . 
Hir mi diblis I never will . 
I saw by Jasper's look and tone that he was in earnest , and , as I had really a regard for the strange being , I scarcely knew what to do . 
Moreover , brother , I want to dispose of this fifty pounds in a safe manner . 
But , said I , you had better employ it in your traffic . 
But , said I , after all , the horse may have found another purchaser by this time . 
Allowing myself to be persuaded , I kept possession of the purse . 
Are you satisfied now ? said I. By no means , brother , said Mr. Petulengro , you will please to pay me the five shillings which you lost to me . 
Why , said I , the fifty pounds which I found in my pocket were not mine , but put in by yourself . 
Not wishing to have any dispute about such a matter , I took five shillings out of my under pocket , and gave them to him . 
He then departed , and I remained alone in the dingle . 
Nevertheless , it was possible that I might sell the horse very advantageously , and by so doing obtain a fund sufficient to enable me to execute some grand enterprise or other . 
CHAPTER XIX Trying the Horse The Feats of Tawno Man with the Red Waist coat Disposal of Property . 
At the hour appointed , therefore , I went with Mr. Petulengro and Tawno to the public , where , as before , there was a crowd of company . 
The landlord received us in the bar with marks of much satisfaction and esteem , made us sit down , and treated us with some excellent mild draught ale . 
I read him a pretty lecture , calling him several unhandsome names , and asking him what he meant by attempting to seduce a church warden of the Church of England . 
I , however , interfered , and said , 'that what he came about was between me and him , and that it was no business of theirs . 
How did you ever come by the money ? however , that's no matter of mine . 
I suppose you are strongly backed by certain friends you have . 
I informed the landlord that he was right in supposing that I came for the horse , but that , before I paid for him , I should wish to prove his capabilities . 
With all my heart , said the landlord . 
You shall mount him this moment . 
Then going into the stable , he saddled and bridled the horse , and presently brought him out before the door . 
I mounted him , Mr. Petulengro putting a heavy whip into my hand , and saying a few words to me in his own mysterious language . 
The horse wants no whip , said the landlord . 
Hold your tongue , daddy , said Mr. Petulengro . 
My pal knows quite well what to do with the whip , he's not going to beat the horse with it . 
On reaching the foot of the hill , I wheeled the animal round , and trotted him towards the house the horse sped faster than before . 
Whereupon I turned slowly and waited for him . 
We then set off towards the house , but now the cob had no chance , being at least twenty yards behind when I reached the door . 
I almost imagined myself Gunnar of Hlitharend at the race of Are you satisfied ? said the landlord . 
Didn't you tell me that he could leap ? I demanded . 
I am told he can , said the landlord but I can't consent that he should be tried in that way , as he might be damaged . 
That's right ! said Mr. Petulengro , don't trust my pal to leap that horse , he'll merely fling him down , and break his neck and his own . 
There's a better man than he close by let him get on his back and leap him . 
You mean yourself , I suppose , said the landlord . 
Well , I call that talking modestly , and nothing becomes a young man more than modesty . 
It a'n't I , daddy , said Mr. Petulengro . 
Here's the man , said he , pointing to Tawno . 
Here's the horse leaper of the world ! You mean the horse back breaker , said the landlord . 
That big fellow would break down my cousin's horse . 
Why , he weighs only sixteen stone , said Mr. Petulengro . 
And his sixteen stone , with his way of handling a horse , does not press so much as any other one's thirteen . 
Only let him get on the horse's back , and you'll see what he can do ! No , said the landlord , it won't do . 
Well , said the landlord , for the sport of the thing I consent , so let your white pal get down , and our black pal mount as soon as he pleases . 
Let every dog be praised for his own gift . 
There's a leaping bar behind the house , said the landlord . 
Leaping bar ! said Mr. Petulengro , scornfully . 
Do you think my black pal ever rides at a leaping bar ? No more than a windle straw . 
Leap over that meadow wall , Tawno . 
Just past the house , in the direction in which I had been trotting , was a wall about four feet high , beyond which was a small meadow . 
Well done , man and horse ! said Mr. Petulengro , now come back , Tawno . 
A near thing , said the landlord but a good leap . 
Now , no more leaping , so long as I have control over the animal . 
The horse was then led back to the stable and the landlord , myself and companions going into the bar , I paid down the money for the horse . 
Take yourself out of my bar , I say , you and all of you , and he turned the fellows out . 
CHAPTER XX Farewell to the Romans The Landlord and His Niece Set Out as a Traveller . 
ON reaching the plain above , I found my Romany friends breakfasting , and on being asked by Mr. Petulengro to join them , I accepted the invitation . 
CHAPTER XXI An Adventure on the Road The Six Flint Stone A Rural Scene Mead The Old Man and His Bees . 
I BENT my course in the direction of the north , more induced by chance than any particular motive all quarters of the world having about equal attractions for me . 
I might have travelled about six miles amongst cross roads and lanes , when suddenly I found myself upon a broad and very dusty road which seemed to lead due north . 
As I wended along this I saw a man upon a donkey riding towards me . 
I really scarcely understand you , said I , I wish you would explain yourself more clearly . 
I suppose he was the fellow , said I , whom I just now met upon a fine gray ass , which he was beating with a cudgel . 
I dare say he was , said the old man , I saw him beating her as he rode away , and I thought I should have died . 
Shall I go ? said I the fellow is a thief , and any one has a right to stop him . 
I asked six pounds for her , and he gave me six pounds . 
At all events , I'll ride after the fellow . 
The fellow hearing the thunder of the horse's hoofs behind him , drew up on one side of the road . 
What do you want ? said he , as I stopped my charger , now almost covered with sweat and foam close beside him . 
Do you want to rob me ? To rob you ? said I. No ! but to take from you that ass , of which you have just robbed its owner . 
Stop , said the man , I'll get down , and then try if I can't serve you out . 
He then got down , and confronted me with his cudgel he was a horrible looking fellow , and seemed prepared for anything . 
Pretty treatment this , said the fellow , getting up without his cudgel , and holding his hand to his side , I wish I may not be lamed for life . 
I read the newspapers , and knows what's what . 
The fellow followed me with a torrent of abuse . 
Confound you , said he yet that was not the expression either I know you you are one of the horse patrol come down into the country on leave to see your relations . 
Confound you , you and the like of you have knocked my business on the head near Lunnon , and I suppose we shall have you shortly in the country . 
After thanking me for my offer , which he said he would accept , he got upon his ass , and we proceeded together down the road . 
My new acquaintance said very little of his own accord and when I asked him a question , answered rather incoherently . 
Health and thanks , I replied and being very thirsty , emptied my cup at a draught I had scarcely done so , however , when I half repented . 
The mead was deliciously sweet and mellow , but appeared strong as brandy my eyes reeled in my head , and my brain became slightly dizzy . 
Mead is a strong drink , said the old man , as he looked at me , with a half smile on his countenance . 
This is at any rate , said I , so strong , indeed , that I would not drink another cup for any consideration . 
Mead is a good drink , but woundily strong , especially to those who be not used to it , as I suppose you are not . 
Where do you get it ? said I. I make it myself , said the old man , from the honey which my bees make . 
Have you many bees ? I inquired . 
A great many , said the old man . 
And do you live alone ? Yes , said he with the exception of the bees and the donkey , I live quite alone . 
And have you always lived alone ? The old man emptied his cup , and his heart being warmed with the mead , he told his history , which was simplicity itself . 
About the age of twenty five he had married an industrious young woman , by whom he had one daughter , who died before reaching years of womanhood . 
Such was the old man's tale . 
When he had finished speaking , he led me behind his house , and showed me his little domain . 
The air was full of ambrosial sweets , resembling those proceeding from an orange grove a place which though I had never seen at that time , I since have . 
In the garden was the habitation of the bees , a long box , supported upon three oaken stumps . 
It was full of small round glass windows , and appeared to be divided into a great many compartments , much resembling drawers placed sideways . 
As I looked around on the well cultivated field , the garden , and the bees , I thought I had never before seen so rural and peaceful a scene . 
When we returned to the cottage we again sat down , and I asked the old man whether he was not afraid to live alone . 
He told me that he was not , for that , upon the whole , his neighbours were very kind to him . 
I mentioned the fellow who had swindled him of his donkey upon the road . 
That was no neighbour of mine , said the old man , and , perhaps , I shall never see him again , or his like . 
It's a dreadful thing , said I , to have no other resource , when injured , than to shed tears on the road . 
It is so , said the old man but God saw the tears of the old , and sent a helper . 
You think so now , said the old man , because you are young and strong perhaps when you are as old as I , you will not be ashamed to cry . 
Upon the whole I was rather pleased with the old man , and much with all about him . 
I , however , declined and bidding him farewell , mounted my horse , and departed . 
CHAPTER XXII The Singular Noise Sleeping in a Meadow The Book Cure for Wakefulness Literary Tea Party Poor Byron . 
After feeding my horse , and breakfasting , I proceeded on my wanderings . 
Nothing occurred worthy of relating till mid day was considerably past , when I came to a pleasant valley , between two gentle hills . 
I stopped short and listened , and presently said to myself , Surely this is snoring , perhaps that of a hedgehog . 
Impelled by curiosity , I fastened the bridle of my horse to the gate , and went up to the man . 
He was a genteelly dressed individual rather corpulent , with dark features , and seemingly about forty five . 
He lay on his back , his hat slightly over his brow , and at his right hand lay an open book . 
So strenuously did he snore that the wind from his nostrils agitated , perceptibly , a fine cambric frill which he wore at his bosom . 
I gazed upon him for some time , expecting that he might awake but he did not , but kept on snoring , his breast heaving convulsively . 
I therefore exclaimed , Sir , sir , awake ! you sleep over much . 
Well , said I , I beg your pardon once more . 
I assure you that what I did was with the best intention . 
Pray pardon me , said I , if I tell you that I never saw one sleep more heartily . 
If I did so , said the individual , I am beholden to this meadow and this book but I am talking riddles , and will explain myself . 
I am the owner of a very pretty property , of which this valley forms part . 
I sometimes passed nights without closing an eye I took opiates , but they rather increased than alleviated my malady . 
Every day since then I have repeated the experiment , and every time with equal success . 
Does the book consist of prose or poetry ? It consists of poetry , said the individual . 
Not Byron's ? said I. Byron's ! repeated the individual , with a smile of contempt no , no there is nothing narcotic in Byron's poetry . 
I used to read it , but it thrilled , agitated , and kept me awake . 
No this is not Byron's poetry , but the inimitable 's mentioning a name which I had never heard till then . 
Will you permit me to look at it ? said I. With pleasure , he answered , politely handing me the book . 
I took the volume , and glanced over the contents . 
It was written in blank verse , and appeared to abound in descriptions of scenery there was much mention of mountains , valleys , streams , and waterfalls , harebells and daffodils . 
He then moved towards the gate , where we parted he going one way , and I and my horse the other . 
At first , I received no answer to what I said the company merely surveying me with a kind of sleepy stare . 
Now emotion is what I dislike drawling out the last syllable of the word dislike . 
Ah ! there is no one like him ! murmured some more of the company the poet of nature of nature without its vulgarity . 
Well , all things are doomed to terminate in sleep . 
CHAPTER XXIII Drivers and Front Outside Passengers Fatigue of Body and Mind Unexpected Greeting My Inn The Governor Engagement . 
I CONTINUED my journey , passing through one or two villages . 
The day was exceedingly hot , and the roads dusty . 
Ah ! said I , is it you ? I am glad to see you , for I was feeling very lonely and melancholy . 
It is your own ? Yes , said I , I may call it my own , though I borrowed the money to purchase it . 
Well , replied he , but you will soon come together again . 
No , said I , we are parted for ever . 
For ever ! Pooh ! you little know how people sometimes come together again who think they are parted for ever . 
Here's something on that point relating to myself . 
Come along , you and your horse both will find a welcome at my inn . 
Our upper ostler , said he , died about a week ago he was a clever fellow , and , besides his trade , understood reading and accounts . 
The postillion burst into a laugh . 
We have , moreover , the best under ostler in all England old Bill , with the drawback that he is rather fond of drink . 
CHAPTER XXIV An Inn of Times gone by A First rate Publican Hay and Corn Old fashioned Ostler Highwaymen Mounted Police Grooming . 
THE inn , of which I had become an inhabitant , was a place of infinite life and bustle . 
Jacks creaked in the kitchens turning round spits , on which large joints of meat piped and smoked before great big fires . 
Truly a very great place for life and bustle was this inn . 
And often in after life , when lonely and melancholy , I have called up the time I spent there , and never failed to become cheerful from the recollection . 
I found the master of the house a very kind and civil person . 
He was no vulgar inn keeper , had a host of friends , and deserved them all . 
I learned from him that both were capital customers at the Hounslow inn , and that he had frequently drank with them in the corn room . 
What does the reader think ? CHAPTER XXV Stable Hartshorn How to Manage a Horse on a Journey Your Best Friend . 
See to your horse at night , and have him well rubbed down . 
CHAPTER XXVI The Stage Coachmen of England A Bully Served Out Broughton's Guard The Brazen Head . 
Amongst the coachmen who frequented the inn was one who was called the bang up coachman . 
He drove to our inn , in the fore part of every day , one of what were called the fast coaches , and afterwards took back the corresponding vehicle . 
I was nearly having a fracas with this worthy . 
If you expect me to give you anything , said he to the coachman , you are mistaken I will give you nothing . 
You say it is three miles to , said the individual to me I think I shall light my pipe , and smoke it as I go along . 
Thereupon he took out from a side pocket a tobacco box and short meerschaum pipe , and implements for striking a light , filled his pipe , lighted it , and commenced smoking . 
Presently the coachman drew near . 
What do you mean by smoking in my face ? said he , striking the pipe of the elderly individual out of his mouth . 
The coachman reeled like a fir tree in a gale , and seemed nearly unsensed . 
Ho ! what's this ? a fight ! a fight ! sounded from a dozen voices , and people came running from all directions to see what was going on . 
The coachman did not drive his coach back that day , he did not appear on the box again for a week but he never held up his head afterwards . 
Before I quitted the inn , he had disappeared from the road , going no one knew where . 
I never saw such a fight before , said one . 
So he would , said another , it was all owing to that guard . 
However , I think I see into it , and if I had not to drive this afternoon , I would have a turn with the old fellow and soon serve him out . 
Then putting on his coat and hat , and taking up his bundle , not forgetting his meerschaum , and the rest of his smoking apparatus , he departed on his way . 
Filled with curiosity , I followed him . 
I will tell you how I became able to do so , said the elderly individual , proceeding to fill and light his pipe as he walked along . 
My father was a journeyman engraver , who lived in a very riotous neighbourhood in the outskirts of London . 
He lived only four doors from our house so , as I was running along the street , with my tyrant behind me , Sergeant Broughton seized me by the arm . 
The old gentleman , however , made me promise never to be quarrelsome , nor to turn his instructions to account , except in self defence . 
I have always borne in mind my promise , and have made it a point of conscience never to fight unless absolutely compelled . 
Folks may rail against boxing if they please , but being able to box may sometimes stand a quiet man in good stead . 
How should I have fared to day , but for the instructions of Sergeant Broughton ? But for them , the brutal ruffian who insulted me must have passed unpunished . 
He will not soon forget the lesson which I have just given him the only lesson he could understand . 
What would have been the use of reasoning with a fellow of that description ? Brave old Broughton ! I owe him much . 
He then , shaking me by the hand , proceeded on his way , whilst I returned to the inn . 
CHAPTER XXVII Francis Ardry His Misfortunes Dog and Lion Fight Great Men of the World . 
And whither are you bound ? demanded my friend . 
I am stopping at present in this house , quite undetermined as to what to do . 
Then come along with me , said Francis Ardry . 
That I can scarcely do , said I I have a horse in the stall which I cannot afford to ruin by racing to L by the side of your coach . 
No very agreeable posture of affairs , said Francis Ardry , looking rather seriously at me . 
Ah ! woman's love , said I , and sighed . 
What's the matter with the fellow ? said Francis Ardry . 
Nonsense , said I why I was repeating , to the best of my recollection , what I heard you say on a former occasion . 
What do you think ? that false Annette has cruelly abandoned me . 
I treated her in a manner diametrically opposite to that . 
Francis Ardry and myself dined together , and after dinner partook of a bottle of the best port which the inn afforded . 
Becoming , notwithstanding my friend's eloquence and learning , somewhat tired of the subject , I began to talk about Alexander . 
No , said he , Alexander and Napoleon are the great men of the world , their names are known everywhere . 
Wishing to make up a triumvirate , I mentioned the name of Wellington , to which Francis Ardry merely said , bah ! and resumed the subject of dog fighting . 
A desire , a craving , to perform something great and good . 
CHAPTER XXVIII Mr. Platitude and the Man in Black The Postillion's Adventures The Lone House A Goodly Assemblage . 
IT never rains , but it pours . 
I was destined to see at this inn more acquaintances than one . 
Here they both are , he gasped out pray do come and look at them . 
I have no time to lose , for I must get myself ready so do come and look at them . 
Not wishing to be standing an idle gazer , I went to the chaise and assisted in attaching the horses , which had now been brought out , to the pole . 
In got the man in black , and seated himself nearest to me . 
All is right , said I , as I shut the door , whereupon the postillion cracked his whip , and the chaise drove out of the yard . 
I did not see my friend the postillion till the next morning , when he gave me an account of the adventures he had met with on his expedition . 
It appeared that he had driven the man in black and the Reverend Platitude across the country by roads and lanes which he had some difficulty in threading . 
The postillion said it was a strange looking house , with a wall round it and , upon the whole , bore something of the look of a madhouse . 
He was dressed very much like the man in black , and the postillion said that he could almost have taken his Bible oath that they were both of the same profession . 
The other two he said were parsons , he could swear that , though he had never seen them before there could be no mistake about them . 
I say , partner , I am a poor postillion , but when he gave me the crown I had a good mind to fling it in his face . 
The landlord , however , told him that there was no negus , but that if he pleased , he could have a jug of as good beer as any in the country . 
'You have ? said I , getting up , and laying down my pipe . 
'Well , I'll now give you an opportunity . 
CHAPTER XXIX Deliberations with Self Resolution Invitation to Dinner The Commercial Traveller The Landlord's Offer The Comet Wine . 
IT was now that I had frequent deliberations with myself . 
The people of the inn were very sorry on being informed of my determination to depart . 
At which he said that he was exceedingly sorry , and finding me determined to go , wished me success in all my undertakings . 
I informed him that I should be only too happy . 
On the following day at four o'clock I dined with the landlord , in company with a commercial traveller . 
But , said he , receiving this money will not be incurring an obligation , it is your due . 
I do not think so , said I I did not engage to serve you for money , nor will I take any from you . 
Perhaps you will take it as a loan ? said he . 
No , I replied , I never borrow . 
Well , said the landlord , smiling , you are different from all others that I am acquainted with . 
Come , you need not be more scrupulous than your superiors I mean in station . 
Every vessel must stand on its own bottom , said I they take pleasure in receiving obligations , I take pleasure in being independent . 
Have you any relations ? said the landlord , looking at me compassionately excuse me , but I don't think you are exactly fit to take care of yourself . 
I am going to take my horse to Horncastle , and when there I shall endeavour to obtain his full value ay to the last penny . 
Horncastle ! said the landlord , I have heard of that place you mustn't be dreaming visions when you get there , or they'll steal the horse from under you . 
Well , said he , rising , I shall not press you further on the subject of the cheque . 
I intend , however , to put you under an obligation to me . 
CHAPTER XXX Triumphal Departure No Season like Youth Extreme Old Age Beautiful England The Ratcatcher A Misadventure . 
It was at the end of these three miles , just opposite a milestone , that I struck into a cross road . 
Ah ! there is nothing like youth not that after life is valueless . 
Even in extreme old age one may get on very well , provided we will but accept of the bounties of God . 
I met the other day an old man , who asked me to drink . 
I am not thirsty , said I , and will not drink with you . 
So I broke my word , and drank . 
And he drank off a glass of ale . 
On I went in my journey , traversing England from west to east ascending and descending hills crossing rivers by bridge and ferry and passing over extensive plains . 
Witness the number of adventures narrated in the present book a book entirely devoted to England . 
Why , there is not a chapter in the present book which is not full of adventures , with the exception of the present one , and this is not yet terminated . 
After traversing two or three counties , I reached the confines of Lincolnshire . 
In requital for which I treated them with a song , not of Romanvile , but the song of Sivory and the horse Grayman . 
I fell upon the ground felt a kind of crashing about my neck and forthwith became senseless . 
CHAPTER XXXI A Novel Situation The Elderly Individual The Surgeon A Kind Offer Chimerical Ideas Strange Dream . 
I attempted to move , but felt very stiff my right arm appeared nearly paralysed , and there was a strange dull sensation in my head . 
You had better remain still , young man , said the elderly individual , the surgeon will be here presently I have sent a message for him to the neighbouring village . 
Where am I ? said I , and what has happened ? You are in my house , said the old man , and you have been flung from a horse . 
I am sorry to say that I was the cause . 
As I was driving home , the lights in my gig frightened the animal . 
Where is the horse ? said I. Below , in my stable , said the elderly individual . 
We raised you up , and brought you here . 
My lad then went in quest of the horse , who had run away as we drew nigh . 
When we saw him first he was standing near you he caught him with some difficulty , and brought him home . 
What are you about ? said the old man , as I strove to get off the bed . 
I want to see the horse , said I. I entreat you to be still , said the old man the horse is safe , I assure you . 
I am thinking about his knees , said I. Instead of thinking about your horse's knees , said the old man , be thankful that you have not broke your own neck . 
A pretty figure I should cut at Horncastle , mounted on a horse blood raw at the knees . 
He left the room and returned in about ten minutes , followed by another person . 
Your horse is safe , said he , and his knees are unblemished not a hair ruffled . 
He is a fine animal , and will do credit to Horncastle but here is the surgeon come to examine into your own condition . 
He was dressed very neatly , and spoke in a very precise tone . 
Allow me to feel your pulse , friend ? said he , taking me by the right wrist . 
I uttered a cry , for at the motion which he caused a thrill of agony darted through my arm . 
I hope your arm is not broke , my friend , said the surgeon , allow me to see first of all , we must divest you of this cumbrous frock . 
The frock was removed with some difficulty , and then the upper vestments of my frame , with more difficulty still . 
The surgeon felt my arm , moving it up and down , causing me unspeakable pain . 
There is no fracture , said he , at last , but a contusion a violent contusion . 
He then departed with the master of the house , and the woman , leaving me to my repose . 
I hope I don't disturb you , said the former my reason for returning is to relieve your mind from any anxiety with respect to your horse . 
I have been down to the stable , and approve of his figure . 
Thirty pounds , said the surgeon , is all I can afford to give and that is a great deal for a country surgeon to offer for a horse . 
Thirty pounds ! said I , why , he cost me nearly double that sum . 
To tell you the truth , I am afraid that you want to take advantage of my situation . 
Good night , I will see you again on the morrow . 
Thereupon he once more departed with the master of the house . 
A sharp one , I heard him say , with a laugh , as the door closed upon him . 
Left to myself , I again essayed to compose myself to rest , but for some time in vain . 
took possession of my mind . 
, the door opened , and the surgeon who had attended me came in . 
If your paces are good , I shall keep you for my own riding if not , I shall take you to Horncastle , your original destination . 
I like his paces well , said the surgeon I think I shall take him for my own use . 
The consciousness of having done your duty to a fellow creature in succouring him in a time of distress , must be your reward , said the surgeon . 
So I increased my speed , till arriving within about ten yards of the heap , I made a desperate start , turning half round with nearly the velocity of a mill stone . 
Oh , the joy I experienced when I felt my enemy canted over my neck , and saw him lying senseless in the road . 
I have you now in my power , I said , or rather neighed , as , going up to my prostrate foe , I stood over him . 
With some difficulty I readjusted myself in bed . 
For some time I felt uneasy and anxious , my spirits being in a strange fluttering state . 
At last my eyes fell upon a small row of tea cups seemingly of china , which stood on a mantelpiece exactly fronting the bottom of the bed . 
CHAPTER XXXII The Morning after a Fall The Teapot Unpretending Hospitality The Chinese Student . 
IT might be about eight o'clock in the morning when I was awakened by the entrance of the old man . 
How have you rested ? said he , coming up to the bedside , and looking me in the face . 
Well , said I , and I feel much better , but I am still very sore . 
I surveyed him now for the first time with attention . 
He was dressed in a sober coloured suit , and was apparently between sixty and seventy . 
At length he said , It is now time for you to take some refreshment . 
I hear my old servant coming up with your breakfast . 
In a moment the elderly female entered with a tray , on which was some bread and butter , a teapot and cup . 
The cup was of common blue earthenware , but the pot was of china , curiously fashioned , and seemingly of great antiquity . 
The old man poured me out a cupful of tea , and then , with the assistance of the woman , raised me higher , and propped me up with the pillows . 
, I raised it up with my left hand to inspect it . 
The sides were covered with curious characters , seemingly hieroglyphics . 
After surveying them for some time , I replaced it upon the tray . 
The old man fixed his eyes intently on me , and methought the expression of his countenance became yet more melancholy . 
Yes , said he , at last , I am fond of china I have reason to be fond of china but for china I should and here he sighed again . 
You value it for the quaintness and singularity of its form , said I it appears to be less adapted for real use than our own pottery . 
The old man then left me , and in about an hour returned with the surgeon , who examined me and reported favourably as to my case . 
He spoke to me with kindness and feeling , and did not introduce the subject of the horse . 
I asked him whether he thought I should be in time for the fair . 
I saw some people making their way thither to day , said he the fair lasts three weeks , and it has just commenced . 
Yes , I think I may promise you that you will be in time for the very heat of it . 
You must , by all means , drop the sling before you get to Horncastle . 
For three days I kept my apartment by the advice of the surgeon . 
I passed my time as I best could . 
Stretched on my bed , I either abandoned myself to reflection , or listened to the voices of the birds in the neighbouring garden . 
Sometimes , as I lay awake at night , I would endeavour to catch the tick of a clock , which methought sounded from some distant part of the house . 
The old man visited me twice or thrice every day to inquire into my state . 
His words were few on these occasions , and he did not stay long . 
Yet his voice and his words were kind . 
The county in which I am now , thought I at last , must be either extraordinarily devoted to hospitality , or this old host of mine must be an extraordinary individual . 
On the evening of the fourth day , feeling tired of my confinement , I put my clothes on in the best manner I could , and left the chamber . 
There was nothing remarkable in this room , except a large quantity of china . 
I entered the room , which seemed to be a counterpart of the one which I had just left . 
There it hung on the wall , with its pendulum moving tick a tick . 
The old gentleman was seated in an easy chair a little way into the room , having the glass door on his right hand . 
On a table before him lay a large open volume , in which I observed Roman letters as well as characters . 
A few inches beyond the book on the table , covered all over with hieroglyphics , stood a china vase . 
The eyes of the old man were fixed upon it . 
Sit down , said he , motioning me with his hand to a stool close by , but without taking his eyes from the vase . 
I can't make it out , said he , at last , removing his eyes from the vase , and leaning back on the chair , I can't make it out . 
I wish I could assist you , said I. Assist me , said the old man , looking at me with a half smile . 
Yes , said I , but I don't understand Chinese . 
Do you know any language besides English ? Yes , said I , I know a little of two or three . 
May I ask their names ? Why not ? said I , I know a little French . 
Anything else ? Yes , a little Welsh , and a little Haik . 
What is Haik ? Armenian . 
How came you to acquire it ? The old man looked at me , and sighed . 
I wish I knew Chinese , said I. Is it a difficult language to acquire ? I have reason to think so , said the old man . 
Are your Chinese studies , said I , confined to crockery literature ? Entirely , said the old man I read nothing else . 
Does the Chinese resemble any of the European languages in words ? said I. I am scarcely competent to inform you , said the old man but I believe not . 
What does that character represent ? said I , pointing to one on the vase . 
A knife , said the old man , that character is one of the simplest radicals or keys . 
And what is the sound of it ? said I. Tau , said the old man . 
Tau ! said I tau ! A strange word for a knife is it not ? said the old man . 
Tawse ! said I tawse ! What is tawse ? said the old man . 
You were never at school at Edinburgh , I suppose ? Never , said the old man . 
It is a leathern thong , with which refractory urchins are recalled to a sense of their duty by the dominie . 
Tau tawse how singular ! I cannot see what the two words have in common , except a slight agreement in sound . 
TWO days three days passed away and I still remained at the house of my hospitable entertainer my bruised limb rapidly recovering the power of performing its functions . 
As a small requital for his kindness , I gave him one day , after dinner , unasked , a brief account of my history and pursuits . 
He listened with attention and when it was concluded , thanked me for the confidence which I had reposed in him . 
Such conduct , said he , deserves a return . 
I will tell you my own history it is brief , but may perhaps not prove uninteresting to you though the relation of it will give me some pain . 
Pray , then , do not recite it , said I. Yes , said the old man , I will tell you , for I wish you to know it . 
He was about to begin , when he was interrupted by the arrival of the surgeon . 
The surgeon examined into the state of my bruised limb , and told me , what indeed I already well knew , that it was rapidly improving . 
You will not even require a sling , said he , to ride to Horncastle . 
When do you propose going ? he demanded . 
When do you think I may venture ? I replied . 
I think , if you are a tolerably good horseman , you may mount the day after to morrow , answered the medical man . 
By the bye , are you acquainted with anybody at Horncastle ? With no living soul , I answered . 
Then you would scarcely find stable room for your horse . 
But I am happy to be able to assist you . 
I will give you a letter to him , and he will see after the accommodation of your horse . 
To morrow I will pay you a farewell visit , and bring you the letter . 
Thank you , said I and do not forget to bring your bill . 
The surgeon looked at the old man , who gave him a peculiar nod . 
Oh ! said he , in reply to me , for the little service I have rendered you , I require no remuneration . 
You are in my friend's house , and he and I understand each other . 
I never receive such favours , said I , as you have rendered me , without remunerating them therefore I shall expect your bill . 
Oh ! just as you please , said the surgeon and shaking me by the hand more warmly than he had hitherto done , he took his leave . 
My mother had died about three years previously . 
I felt the death of my mother keenly , but that of my father less than was my duty indeed , truth compels me to acknowledge that I scarcely regretted his death . 
The cause of this want of proper filial feeling was the opposition which I had experienced from him in an affair which deeply concerned me . 
She was , at the time of which I am speaking , an orphan , having lost both her parents , and supported herself by keeping a small school . 
He was wrong , for she was a fortune in herself amiable and accomplished . 
Oh ! I cannot tell you all she was and here the old man drew his hand across his eyes . 
By the death of my father , the only obstacle to our happiness appeared to be removed . 
We agreed , therefore , that our marriage should take place within the course of a year and I forthwith commenced enlarging my house and getting my affairs in order . 
To the fair I went , a couple of trusty men following me with the horses . 
I soon found a purchaser for the animals , a portly , plausible person , of about forty , dressed in a blue riding coat , brown top boots , and leather breeches . 
There was a strange looking urchin with him , attired in nearly similar fashion , with a beam in one of his eyes , who called him father . 
The man paid me for the purchase in bank notes three fifty pound notes for the two horses . 
Concluding that I was merely summoned on some unimportant business connected with the neighbourhood , I felt no surprise , and forthwith departed in company with the officer . 
The demeanour of the man upon the way struck me as somewhat singular . 
At sight of me they became silent , but crowded after me as I followed the man into the magistrates' room . 
It was owing to the apparition of this second note that the agent had determined , without further inquiry , to cause me to be summoned before the rural tribunal . 
In a few words the magistrates' clerk gave me to understand the state of the case . 
I was filled with surprise and consternation . 
The law with respect to forgery was terribly severe , and the innocent as well as the guilty occasionally suffered . 
Thereupon , I produced from my pocket book the third note , which was forthwith pronounced a forgery . 
Thereupon , one of the three magistrates , who were present , asked me whether I chanced to have any more of these spurious notes in my possession . 
He certainly had a right to ask the question but there was something peculiar in his tone insinuating suspicion . 
Thereupon the magistrate in the same kind of tone , demanded to see my pocket book . 
The agent took it up and examined it with attention . 
'Well , is it a genuine note ? asked the magistrate . 
'I am sorry to say that it is not , said the agent 'it is a forgery , like the other three . 
The magistrate shrugged his shoulders , as indeed did several people in the room . 
So I was permitted to depart from the tribunal of petty justice without handcuffs , and uncollared by a constable but people looked coldly and suspiciously upon me . 
The first thing I did was to hasten to the house of my beloved , in order to inform her of every circumstance attending the transaction . 
I was distracted he bade me have hope , but I observed he looked very grave . 
Time passed on in a very wretched manner . 
Our friend the surgeon showing to us both every mark of kindness and attention . 
It was owing to this excellent man that my innocence was eventually established . 
The landlord took the note , and looked at it . 
At the mention of Horncastle , it appeared to my friend that the Quaker gave a slight start . 
'Just as you please , friend , said the Quaker , pocketing the suspicious note , 'I will now pay my bill . 
Thereupon he discharged the bill with a five pound note , which he begged the landlord to inspect carefully , and with two pieces of gold . 
'Is that boy your servant ? said the surgeon . 
'He is , friend , said the Quaker . 
'Knock the fellow down , father , said the boy , 'I'll help you . 
And , forsooth , the pretended Quaker took the boy's advice , and knocked my friend down in a twinkling . 
He was subsequently tried on two indictments , in the second of which I appeared against him . 
He was condemned to die but , in consideration of the disclosures he had made , his sentence was commuted to perpetual transportation . 
My innocence was thus perfectly established before the eyes of the world , and all my friends hastened to congratulate me . 
A little time before her death she expressed a wish that we should be united . 
I was too happy to comply with her request . 
We were united , I brought her to this house , where , in less than a week , she expired in my arms . 
CHAPTER XXXIV The Old Man's Story continued Misery in the Head The Strange Marks Tea dealer from London Difficulties of the Chinese Language . 
AFTER another pause the old man once more resumed his narration If ever there was a man perfectly miserable it was myself , after the loss of that cherished woman . 
Within a little time he had an opportunity , in his own case , of practising resignation , and of realizing the benefit of being afflicted . 
A merchant , to whom he had entrusted all his fortune , in the hope of a large interest , became suddenly a bankrupt , with scarcely any assets . 
I will not say that it was owing to this misfortune that the divine died in less than a month after its occurrence , but such was the fact . 
Oh , how fondly would I dwell upon them ! There were some books I cared not for books , but these had belonged to my beloved . 
By deferring the examination thus , I had something to look forward to on the next morning . 
The day was a melancholy one , but it certainly was more tolerable to me than any of the others had been since the death of my beloved . 
As I lay awake that night I occasionally thought of the marks , and in my sleep methought I saw them upon the teapot vividly before me . 
I produced it , and after having surveyed the marks with attention , he observed that they were highly curious , and also wondered what they meant . 
'I strongly advise you , said he , 'to attempt to make them out , and also to take moderate exercise , and to see after your concerns . 
He was a man well skilled in his profession , but had read and thought very little on matters unconnected with it . 
He had no idea that the marks had any particular signification , or were anything else but common and fortuitous ones . 
That I became at all acquainted with their nature was owing to a ludicrous circumstance which I will now relate . 
One day , chancing to be at a neighbouring town , I was struck with the appearance of a shop recently established . 
It had an immense bow window , and every part of it , to which a brush could be applied , was painted in a gaudy flaming style . 
Large bowls of green and black tea were placed upon certain chests , which stood at the window . 
I have observed similar ones on a teapot at home . 
Allow me to sell you this pound of tea , he added , showing me a paper parcel . 
'On the envelope there is a printed account of the Chinese system of writing , extracted from authors of the most established reputation . 
These things I print , principally with the hope of , in some degree , removing the worse than Gothic ignorance prevalent amongst natives of these parts . 
I am from London myself . 
In this dilemma I determined to apply again to the shopkeeper from whom I bought the tea . 
I found him in rather low spirits , his shirt sleeves were soiled , and his hair was out of curl . 
'You are come for some more , I suppose ? said he . 
'You must get a grammar , said he , rubbing his hands . 
'Have you not one ? said I. 'No , he replied , 'but any bookseller can procure you one . 
I consented , and two or three days afterwards took from off his hands all the china in his possession which bore the inscriptions , paying what he demanded . 
I did not , however , grudge the poor fellow what he got from me , as I considered myself to be somewhat in his debt for the information he had afforded me . 
As for the rest of my story , it may be briefly told . 
I followed the advice of the shopkeeper , and applied to a bookseller who wrote to his correspondent in London . 
I was at first very much disheartened . 
I determined , however , at last to gratify my desire of learning Chinese , even at the expense of learning French . 
I procured the books , and in order to qualify myself to turn them to account , took lessons in French from a little Swiss , the usher of a neighbouring boarding school . 
I was very stupid in acquiring French perseverance , however , enabled me to acquire a knowledge sufficient for the object I had in view . 
In about two years I began to study Chinese by myself , through the medium of the French . 
It appeared , however , that ten years elapsed before he was able to use ten of the two hundred and fourteen keys , which serve to undo the locks of Chinese writing . 
And are you able at present to use the entire number ? I demanded . 
Yes , said the old man I can at present use the whole number . 
I know the key for every particular lock , though I frequently find the wards unwilling to give way . 
His death was a great shock to me , and for a time interrupted my studies . 
The first inscription which I translated was that on the teapot of my beloved . 
And how many other pieces of porcelain may you have at present in your possession ? About fifteen hundred . 
And how did you obtain them ? I demanded . 
Without much labour , said the old man , in the neighbouring towns and villages chiefly at auctions of which , about twenty years ago , there were many in these parts . 
'Translations from the crockery literature of China . 
Such a book would be sure to take even glorious John himself would not disdain to publish it . 
I have no desire for literary distinction , said he no ambition . 
My original wish was to pass my life in easy , quiet obscurity , with her whom I loved . 
I was disappointed in my wish she was removed , who constituted my only felicity in this life desolation came to my heart , and misery to my head . 
To escape from the latter I had recourse to Chinese . 
By degrees the misery left my head , but the desolation of the heart yet remains . 
Be of good cheer , said I through the instrumentality of this affliction you have learnt Chinese , and , in so doing , learnt to practise the duties of hospitality . 
I am by nature indolent , and , but for this affliction , should , perhaps , have hardly taken the trouble to do my duty to my fellow creatures . 
Hearing that the old gentleman was in his study , I repaired to him . 
I am come to take leave of you , said I , and to thank you for all the hospitality which I have received at your hands . 
The eyes of the old man were fixed steadfastly on the inscription which I had found him studying on a former occasion . 
Yes , said the old man , I believe I have mastered it it seems to consist of some verses relating to the worship of the Spirit of the Hearth . 
What is the Spirit of the Hearth ? said I. One of the many demons which the Chinese worship , said the old man they do not worship one God , but many . 
And then the old man told me a great many highly interesting particulars respecting the demon worship of the Chinese . 
After the lapse of at least half an hour I said , I must not linger here any longer , however willing . 
Horncastle is distant , and I wish to be there to night . 
I am rather short sighted , said I , and cannot distinguish the number , at that distance . 
It is ten o'clock , said the old man I believe somewhat past . 
A quarter , perhaps ? Yes , said the old man a quarter or Seven minutes , or ten minutes past ten . 
I do not understand you . 
Why , to tell you the truth , said the old man , with a smile , there is one thing to the knowledge of which I could never exactly attain . 
Do you mean to say , said I , that you do not know what's o'clock ? I can give a guess , said the old man , to within a few minutes . 
But you cannot tell the exact moment ? No , said the old man . 
But you have learnt Chinese , said I. Yes , said the old man , I have learnt Chinese . 
Well , said I , I really would counsel you to learn to know what's o'clock as soon as possible . 
Consider what a sad thing it would be to go out of the world not knowing what's o'clock . 
A millionth part of the trouble required to learn Chinese would , if employed , infallibly teach you to know what's o'clock . 
I had a motive for learning Chinese , said the old man , the hope of appeasing the misery in my head . 
With respect to not knowing what's o'clock , I cannot see anything particularly sad in the matter . 
A man may get through the world very creditably without knowing what's o'clock . 
I'll now see you off . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Arrival at Horncastle The Inn and Ostlers The Garret Figure of a Man with a Candle . 
The town was a small one , seemingly ancient , and was crowded with people and horses . 
I proceeded , without delay , to the inn to which my friend the surgeon had directed me . 
I want to see the master of this inn , said I , as I dismounted from the horse . 
I bring a letter to him , said I , pulling out the surgeon's epistle . 
I wish you would deliver it to him , I added , offering a half crown . 
And with these words he hurried into the house . 
That's a nice horse , young man , said another ostler , what will you take for it ? to which interrogation I made no answer . 
Rather leary ! said a third ostler . 
Well , young man , perhaps you will drink tonight with me and my partners , when we can talk the matter over . 
Before I had time to answer , the landlord , a well dressed , good looking man , made his appearance with the ostler he bore the letter in his hand . 
Without glancing at me , he betook himself at once to consider the horse , going round him , and observing every point with the utmost minuteness . 
At last , having gone round the horse three times , he stopped beside me , and keeping his eyes on the horse , bent his head towards his right shoulder . 
Pooh ! said the landlord , the young man' knows what he is about in the meantime lead the horse to the reserved stall , and see well after him . 
And thereupon went into the house . 
It was late at night when I began to think of retiring to rest . 
Presently , bidding me good night , she left me with a candle and I , having undressed myself and extinguished the light , went to bed . 
Notwithstanding the noises which sounded from every part of the house , I was not slow in falling asleep , being thoroughly tired . 
Just as I was beginning to recollect myself , the curtain dropped , and I heard , or thought I heard , a voice say , Don't know the cove . 
Having dressed myself , I descended , and going to the stable , found my horse under the hands of my friend the ostler , who was carefully rubbing him down . 
Well , said I , thank you for your advice , which I will take , and , if successful , will give you 'summut' handsome . 
After a slight breakfast I mounted the horse , which , decked out in his borrowed finery , really looked better by a large sum of money than on any former occasion . 
A wonderful small quantity of good horses in the fair this time ! I heard a stout jockey looking individual say , who was staring up the street with his side towards me . 
What do you ask for him ? Too much for any of you to pay , said I. A horse like this is intended for other kind of customers than any of you . 
How do you know that ? said one the very same person whom I had heard complaining in the street of the paucity of good horses in the fair . 
Come , let us know what you ask for him ? A hundred and fifty pounds ! said I neither more nor less . 
Do you call that a great price ? said the man . 
Why , I thought you would have asked double that amount ! You do yourself injustice , young man . 
Perhaps I do , said I , but that's my affair I do not choose to take more . 
Will you let me get into the saddle , young man ? No , said I I will not let you get into the saddle . 
Why not ? said the man . 
Lest you should be a Yorkshireman , said I and should run away with the horse . 
Yorkshire ? said the man I am from Suffolk silly Suffolk so you need not be afraid of my running away with the horse . 
Oh ! if that's the case , said I , I should be afraid that the horse would run away with you so I will by no means let you mount . 
Will you let me look in his mouth ? said the man . 
If you please , said I but I tell you , he's apt to bite . 
He can scarcely be a worse bite than his master , said the man , looking into the horse's mouth he's four off . 
I say , young man , will you warrant this horse ? No , said I I never warrant horses the horses that I ride can always warrant themselves . 
I wish you would let me speak a word to you , said he . 
It's a nice horse , said he , in a half whisper , after I had ridden a few paces aside with him . 
I had been standing in this manner about five minutes , when I saw the jockey enter the yard , accompanied by another individual . 
They advanced directly towards me . 
Here is my lord come to look at the horse , young man , said the jockey . 
My lord , as the jockey called him , was a tall figure , of about five and thirty . 
He had on his head a hat somewhat rusty , and on his back a surtout of blue rather the worse for wear . 
Is this horse yours ? said he , suddenly turning towards me , with a kind of smirk . 
Well , said I , have you ever seen me before ? I suppose you are asking yourself that question . 
I have never had that pleasure my business with you , at present , is to inquire the lowest price you are willing to take for this horse . 
Who am I ? said the man , still looking into the horse's mouth who am I ? his lordship asks me . 
Ah , I see , close on five , said he , releasing the horse's jaws , and looking at me . 
Who are you , sir , I demand once more ? said he of the hungry look . 
A hundred and fifty , said I. I shouldn't mind giving it to you , said he . 
You will do no such thing , said his lordship , speaking so fast that he almost stuttered . 
Sir , said he to me , I must give you what you ask Symmonds , take possession of the animal for me , said he to the other jockey who attended him . 
You will please to do no such thing without my consent , said I , I have not sold him . 
You behave in this manner , I suppose , said his lordship , because this fellow has expressed a willingness to come to your terms . 
Restraining himself , however , he suddenly turned to his understrapper , saying , Symmonds , will you see me thus insulted ? go and trounce this scoundrel you can , I know . 
That's right , Symmonds , said the other , especially every one from whom there is nothing to be got . 
Come , take yourselves both off there's nothing to be made here . 
By no means , said I , I am utterly unacquainted with either of you , and before parting with the horse I must be satisfied as to the respectability of the purchaser . 
These are the kind of things , said he , which vouch best for a man's respectability . 
Not always , said I indeed , sometimes these kind of things need vouchers for themselves . 
The man looked at me with a peculiar look . 
Thereupon I delivered the horse to my friend the ostler . 
The jockey frequently emptied and replenished his glass the foreigner sometimes raised his to his lips , for no other purpose seemingly than to moisten them , as he never drained his glass . 
As for myself , though I did not smoke , I had a glass before me , from which I sometimes took a sip . 
The deuce you can , said the jockey , taking his pipe out of his mouth , and staring at me through the smoke . 
Ha ! you speak German , vociferated the foreigner in that language . 
I never saw a more acute countenance than your own . 
No soft soap , said the jockey , for I never uses any . 
I cannot speak German , said I , but I can understand tolerably well what others say in it . 
Come no backing out , said the jockey , let's hear you fire away for the glory of Old England . 
Then you are a German ? said I , in German to the foreigner . 
That will do , said the jockey , keep it up . 
A German ! said the tall foreigner . 
Keep on with it , said the jockey , I shall go on listening very contentedly till I fall asleep , no bad thing to do at most times . 
Ah ! you have heard of Tekeli , and of L'eau de la Reine d'Hongrie . 
How is that ? MYSELF . 
As for the water , I have heard a lady , the wife of a master of mine , speak of it . 
Was she handsome ? MYSELF . 
Did she possess the water ? MYSELF . 
I should say not for I have heard her express a great curiosity about it . 
Was she growing old ? MYSELF . 
Of course not but why do you put all these questions ? HUNGARIAN . 
Because the water is said to make people handsome , and above all , to restore to the aged the beauty of their youth . 
She was a great woman and celebrated politician , though at present chiefly known by her water . 
How came she to invent it ? HUNGARIAN . 
If her own account may be believed , she did not invent it . 
The receipt for making it and directions for using it , were also found on the fly leaf . 
I should wish to see some old woman who has been restored to youthful beauty by the use of L'eau de la Reine d'Hongrie . 
Perhaps , if you did , the old gentlewoman would hardly be so ingenuous as the queen . 
Here they rested meditating , however , fresh conquests . 
Oh , the Magyars soon showed themselves a mighty people . 
Besides Hungary and Transylvania , they subdued Bulgaria and Bosnia , and the land of Tot , now called Sclavonia . 
The generals of Zoltan , the son of Arpad , led troops of horsemen to the banks of the Rhine . 
One of them , at the head of a host , besieged Constantinople . 
It was then that Botond engaged in combat with a Greek of gigantic stature , who came out of the city and challenged the two best men in the Magyar army . 
Of what religion were the old Hungarians ? HUNGARIAN . 
They were converted to Christianity chiefly through the instrumentality of Istvan or Stephen , called after his death St . 
Istvan , who ascended the throne in the year one thousand . 
He was born in heathenesse , and his original name was Vojk he was the first kiraly , or king of the Magyars . 
Their former leaders had been called fejedelmek , or dukes . 
The Magyar language has properly no term either for king or house . 
Kiraly is a word derived from the Sclaves haz , or house , from the Germans , who first taught them to build houses , their original dwellings having been tilted waggons . 
Many thanks for your account of the great men of your country . 
It may be so , though I rather doubt it but , however that may be , I confess my ignorance . 
I have never , until this moment , heard the name of Hunyadi . 
Yes , I have heard the name of Corvinus . 
By my God , I am glad of it I thought our hammer of destruction , our thunderbolt , whom the Greeks called Achilles , must be known to the people of Horncastle . 
Well , Hunyadi and Corvinus are the same . 
Corvinus means the man of the crow , or raven . 
I suppose that your John , when a boy , climbed up to a crow or a raven's nest , and stole the young a bold feat , well befitting a young hero . 
By Isten , you are an acute guesser a robbery there was , but it was not Hunyadi who robbed the raven , but the raven who robbed Hunyadi . 
How was that ? HUNGARIAN . 
In this manner Hunyadi , according to tradition , was the son of King Sigmond , by a peasant's daughter . 
The king saw and fell in love with her , whilst marching against the vaivode of Wallachia . 
When her time was up , the peasant's daughter brought forth a fair son , who was baptized by the name of John . 
The brother consented , and both set out , taking the child with them . 
On their way , the woman , wanting to wash her clothes , laid the child down , giving it the king's ring to play with . 
The woman , in great terror , called her brother , and told him what had happened , adding that she durst not approach the king if the raven took away the ring . 
Taking up the ring , they went on their way , and shortly arrived at Buda . 
Such , oh young man of Horncastle ! is the popular account of the birth of the great captain of Hungary , as related by Florentius of Buda . 
I heartily thank you but you must tell me something more of Hunyadi . 
You call him your great captain what did he do ? HUNGARIAN . 
Do ! what no other man of his day could have done . 
He broke the power of the Turk when he was coming to overwhelm Europe . 
How was it that he had an opportunity of displaying his military genius ? HUNGARIAN . 
I can hardly tell you , but his valour soon made him famous King Albert made him Ban of Szorenyi . 
He became eventually waivode of Transylvania , and governor of Hungary . 
His first grand action was the defeat of Bashaw Isack and though himself surprised and routed at St . 
It was then that the Greeks called him Achilles . 
He was not always successful . 
Who could be always successful against the early Turk ? He was defeated in the battle in which King Vladislaus lost his life , but his victories outnumbered his defeats three fold . 
Hunyadi , undismayed by the great disparity between his forces and those of the Turk , advanced to relieve Belgrade , and encamped at Szalankemen with his army . 
On the th came on the commencement of the great battle of Belgrade , between Hunyadi and the Turk . 
One has described it well Florentius of Buda . 
After this victory , Hunyadi , with his army , entered Belgrade , to the great joy of the Magyars . 
His last and most desperate assault was made on the st day of July . 
Twice did the Turks gain possession of the outer town , and twice was it retaken with indescribable slaughter . 
The next day the combat raged without ceasing till mid day , when the Turks were again beaten out of the town , and pursued by the Magyars to their camp . 
There the combat was renewed , both sides displaying the greatest obstinacy , until Mahomed received a great wound over his left eye . 
After that battle , I suppose Hunyadi enjoyed his triumphs in peace ? HUNGARIAN . 
In the deepest , for he shortly died . 
His great soul quitted his body , which was exhausted by almost superhuman exertions , on the th of August , . 
Shortly before he died , according to Florentius , a comet appeared , sent , as it would seem , to announce his coming end . 
The whole Christian world mourned his loss . 
The Pope ordered the cardinals to perform a funeral ceremony at Rome in his honour . 
His great enemy himself grieved for him , and pronounced his finest eulogium . 
When Mahomed the Second heard of his death , he struck his head for some time against the ground without speaking . 
What was the name of his Prince ? HUNGARIAN . 
Was this Matyas a good king ? HUNGARIAN . 
It was he who organized the Hussar force , and it was he who took Vienna . 
Why does your Government always send fools to represent it at Vienna ? MYSELF . 
I really cannot say but with respect to the Hussar force , is it of Hungarian origin ? HUNGARIAN . 
Its name shows its origin . 
Huz , in Hungarian , is twenty and the Hussar force is so called because it is formed of twentieths . 
Why did Matyas capture Venna ? HUNGARIAN . 
Because the Emperor Frederick took part against him with the King of Poland , who claimed the kingdom of Hungary for his son , and had also assisted the Turk . 
He captured it in the year , but did not survive his triumph long , expiring there in the year . 
He was so veracious a man , that it was said of him , after his death , Truth died with Matyas . 
It might be added that the glory of Hungary departed with him . 
I wish to say nothing more connected with Hungarian history . 
Did Matyas leave a son ? HUNGARIAN . 
A natural son , Hunyadi John , called so after the great man . 
He would have been universally acknowledged as King of Hungary but for the illegitimacy of his birth . 
To what ? Tche Drak , to the Mohacs Veszedelem . 
Ulaszlo left a son , Lajos the Second , born without skin , as it is said , certainly without a head . 
Drak ! the Magyars were annihilated , King Lajos disappeared with his heavy horse and armour in a bog . 
We call that battle , which was fought on the th of August , , the destruction of Mohacs , but it was the destruction of Hungary . 
You have twice used the word drak , what is the meaning of it ? Is it Hungarian ? HUNGARIAN . 
No ! it belongs to the mad Wallacks . 
They are a nation of madmen on the other side of Transylvania . 
Their country was formerly a fief of Hungary , like Moldavia , which is inhabited by the same race , who speak the same language and are equally mad . 
What language do they speak ? HUNGARIAN . 
A strange mixture of Latin and Sclavonian they themselves being a mixed race of Romans and Sclavonians . 
I say to a certain extent , for the Sclavonian element both in blood and language seems to prevail . 
And what is drak ? HUNGARIAN . 
Dragon which the Wallacks use for devil . 
The term is curious , as it shows that the old Romans looked upon the dragon as an infernal being . 
You have been in Wallachia ? HUNGARIAN . 
I have , and glad I was to get out of it . 
I hate the mad Wallacks . 
Why do you call them mad ? HUNGARIAN . 
They are always drinking or talking . 
I never saw a Wallachian eating or silent . 
They talk like madmen , and drink like madmen . 
In drinking they use small phials , the contents of which they pour down their throats . 
When I first went amongst them I thought the whole nation was under a course of physic , but the terrible jabber of their tongues soon undeceived me . 
Drak was the first word I heard on entering Dacia , and the last when I left it . 
The Moldaves , if possible , drink more , and talk more than the Wallachians . 
It is singular enough that the only Moldavian I have known could not speak . 
I suppose he was born dumb . 
His master , an Armenian , snipped off part of his tongue at Adrianople . 
He drove him mad with his jabber . 
He is now in London , where his master has a house . 
I have letters of credit on the house the clerk paid me money in London , the master was absent the money which you received for the horse belonged to that house . 
Another word with respect to Hungarian history . 
Drak ! I wish to say nothing more about Hungarian history . 
The Turk , I suppose , after Mohacs , got possession of Hungary ? HUNGARIAN . 
The Turk , upon the whole , showed great moderation not so the Austrian . 
Ferdinand the First claimed the crown of Hungary as being the cousin of Maria , widow of Lajos he found too many disposed to support him . 
His claim , however , was resisted by Zapolya John , a Hungarian magnate , who caused himself to be elected king . 
Hungary was for a long time devastated by wars between the partisans of Zapolya and Ferdinand . 
At last Zapolya called in the Turk . 
Soliman behaved generously to him , and after his death befriended his young son , and Isabella his queen eventually the Turks became masters of Transylvania and the greater part of Hungary . 
Many Hungarians went with the Turks to the siege of Vienna , whilst Tekeli and his horsemen guarded Hungary for them . 
His defence of Buda will not be soon forgotten , where Apty Basha , the governor , died fighting like a lion in the breach . 
There's many a Hungarian would prefer Stamboul to Vienna . 
Why does your Government always send fools to represent it at Vienna ? MYSELF . 
I have already told you that I cannot say . 
What became of Tekeli ? HUNGARIAN . 
When Hungary was lost he retired with the Turks into Turkey . 
Count Renoncourt , in his Memoirs , mentions having seen him at Adrianople . 
The Sultan , in consideration of the services which he had rendered to the Moslem in Hungary , made over the revenues of certain towns and districts for his subsistence . 
His end is wrapped in mystery , I whose greatest boast , next to being a Hungarian , is to be of his blood know nothing of his end . 
Allow me to ask who you are ? HUNGARIAN . 
Egy szegeny Magyar Nemes ember , a poor Hungarian nobleman , son of one yet poorer . 
I was born in Transylvania , not far to the west of good Coloscvar . 
I served some time in the Austrian army as a noble Hussar , but am now equerry to a great nobleman , to whom I am distantly related . 
In his service I have travelled far and wide , buying horses . 
For a soldier and equerry you seem to know a great deal of the history of your country . 
All I know is derived from Florentius of Buda , whom we call Budai Ferentz . 
He was professor of Greek and Latin at the Reformed College of Debreczen , where I was educated he wrote a work entitled Magyar Polgari Lexicon , Lives of Great Hungarian Citizens . 
Oh I how my blood used to glow at the descriptions of Magyar valour , and likewise of Turkish for Florentius has always done justice to the Turk . 
I will go to Hungary rather than not read it . 
I am glad that the Turk beat the Magyar . 
When I used to read the ballads of Spain I always sided with the Moor against the Christian . 
The Turk is a noble fellow I should wish to be a Turk , were I not a Magyar . 
The Turk always keeps his word , I am told . 
Which the Christian very seldom does , and even the Hungarian does not always . 
The consequence was the battle of Varna , of the th of November , in which Hunyadi was routed , and Ulaszlo slain . 
I suppose you want to insult me , because I was once a dicky boy . 
Nothing of the kind , said I the gentleman was making a quotation in Latin . 
Latin , was it ? said the jockey that alters the case . 
Latin is genteel , and I have sent my eldest boy to an academy to learn it . 
That's more , said I , than I have done in the colleges where I have been in any little conversation which we may yet have , I wish you would use German . 
You were saying you had been in Russia , said I I believe the Russians are part of the Sclavonian race . 
Yes , part of the great Sclavonian family one of the most numerous races in the world . 
The Russians themselves are very numerous would that the Magyars could boast of the fifth part of their number ! MYSELF . 
What is the number of the Magyars ? HUNGARIAN . 
We came a tribe of Tartars into Europe , and settled down amongst Sclavonians , whom we conquered , but who never coalesced with us . 
Who will bring about his downfall ? HUNGARIAN . 
The Rysckie Tsar will lead his people forth , all the Sclavonians will join him , he will conquer all before him . 
Are the Russians good soldiers ? HUNGARIAN . 
They are stubborn and unflinching to an astonishing degree , and their fidelity to their Tsar is quite admirable . 
Stephen offered them two alternatives to enter into his service , in which they would have good pay , clothing , and fair treatment or to be allowed to return to Russia . 
You speak Russian ? HUNGARIAN . 
Have the Russians any literature ? HUNGARIAN . 
Who is the Baba Yaga ? HUNGARIAN . 
She has several daughters , very handsome , and with plenty of money happy the young Mujik who catches and marries one of them , for they make excellent wives . 
First of all there is Tokay , the most celebrated in the world , though I confess I prefer the wine of Eger Tokay is too sweet . 
Have you ever been at Tokay ? I have , said the Hungarian . 
The top of the mountain is called Kopacs Teto , or the bald tip the hill is so steep that during thunder storms pieces frequently fall down upon the roofs of the houses . 
It was planted with vines by King Lajos , who ascended the throne in . 
The best wine called Tokay is , however , not made at Tokay , but at Kassau , two leagues farther into the Carpathians , of which Tokay is a spur . 
If you wish to drink the best Tokay , you must go to Vienna , to which place all the prime is sent . 
Oh ! the English are a clever people , and have a deep meaning in all they do . 
Oh ! the English are a deep people . 
CHAPTER XL The Horncastle Welcome Tzernebock and Bielebock . 
A finer ! where ? said the jockey whilst the Hungarian , who appeared to understand what we said , stood still , and looked full at me . 
Amongst a strange set of people , said I , whom , if I were to name , you would , I dare say , only laugh at me . 
Who be they ? said the jockey . 
Come , don't be ashamed I have occasionally kept queerish company myself . 
The people whom we call gypsies , said I whom the Germans call Zigeuner , and who call themselves Romany chals . 
Zigeuner ! said the Hungarian by Isten ! I do know those people . 
Romany chals ! said the jockey whew ! I begin to smell a rat . 
What do you mean by smelling a rat ? said I. I'll bet a crown , said the jockey , that you be the young chap what certain folks call 'the Romany Rye . 
Ah ! said I , how came you to know that name ? Be not you he ? said the jockey . 
Why , I certainly have been called by that name . 
I sat in silent astonishment until the waiter returned with a basket containing the wine , which , with three long glasses , he placed on the table . 
The latter , who seemed to understand him , answered by a nod . 
The crash was horrid , and wine and particles of glass flew back into the room , to the no small danger of its inmates . 
That's the way we of the cofrady honour great men at Horncastle , said the jockey . 
What , you are hurt ! never mind all the better your scratch shows that you are the body the compliment was paid to . 
William smiled , and slightly shrugging his shoulders , replied , Very little , I dare say , sir this a'n't the first time your honour has done a thing of this kind . 
Come , William , draw the cork , and let us taste the pink champagne . 
The waiter drew the cork , and filled the glasses with a pinky liquor , which bubbled , hissed , and foamed . 
How do you like it ? said the jockey , after I had imitated the example of my companions , by despatching my portion at a draught . 
Well said , Romany Rye , said the jockey , just my own opinion now , William , make yourself scarce . 
The power you have over them is wonderful that is , I should have thought it wonderful , had they not more than once told me the cause . 
And what is the cause ? said I , for I am sure I do not know . 
The cause is this , said the jockey , they never heard a bad word proceed from your mouth , and never knew you do a bad thing . 
They are a singular people , said I. And what a singular language they have got , said the jockey . 
Do you know it ? said I. Only a few words , said the jockey , they were always chary in teaching me any . 
A pretty philologist , said the Hungarian , who makes the gypsies speak Roth Welsch , the dialect of thieves a pretty historian , who couples together Thor and Tzernebock . 
Where does he do that ? said I. In his conceited romance of 'Ivanhoe , he couples Thor and Tzernebock together , and calls them gods of the heathen Saxons . 
Well , said I , Thur or Thor was certainly a god of the heathen Saxons . 
True , said the Hungarian but why couple him with Tzernebock ? Tzernebock was a word which your Valter had picked up somewhere without knowing the meaning . 
Tzernebock was no god of the Saxons , but one of the gods of the Sclaves , on the southern side of the Baltic . 
The Sclaves had two grand gods to whom they sacrificed , Tzernebock and Bielebock that is , the black and white gods , who represented the powers of dark and light . 
Zernevitz means the thing of blackness , as Tzernebock means the god of blackness . 
Prussia itself merely means , in Sclavish , Lower Russia . 
There is scarcely a race or language in the world more extended than the Sclavic . 
On the other side of the Dunau you will find the Sclaves and their language . 
Oh ! he is one great ignorant , that Valter . 
He is going , they say , to write one history about Napoleon . 
I do hope that in his history he will couple his Thor and Tzernebock together . 
By my God ! it would be good diversion that . 
Walter Scott appears to be no particular favourite of yours , said I. He is not , said the Hungarian I hate him for his slavish principles . 
He makes his great braggart , Coeur de Lion , fling a Magyar over his head . 
Ha ! it was well for Richard that he never felt the gripe of a Hungarian . 
I wish the braggart could have felt the gripe of me , who am 'a' magyarok kozt legkissebb , the least among the Magyars . 
I do hate that Scott , and all his vile gang of Lowlanders and Highlanders . 
Come , said the jockey , no more Dutch , whether high or low . 
I am tired of it unless we can have some English , I am off to bed . 
I should be very glad to hear some English , said I especially from your mouth . 
Several things which you have mentioned , have awakened my curiosity . 
Suppose you give us your history ? My history ? said the jockey . 
A rum idea ! however , lest conversation should lag , I'll give it you . 
First of all , however , a glass of champagne to each . 
After we had each taken a glass of champagne , the jockey commenced his history . 
CHAPTER XLI The Jockey's Tale Thieves' Latin Liberties with Coin The Smasher in Prison Old Fulcher Every One has His Gift Fashion of the English . 
MY grandfather was a shorter , and my father was a smasher the one was scragg'd , and the other lagg'd . 
I here interrupted the jockey by observing that his discourse was , for the greater part , unintelligible to me . 
What do you call the speech you were using ? said I , addressing myself to the jockey . 
Latin , said the jockey , very coolly , that is , that dialect of it which is used by the light fingered gentry . 
Welsch and Wallack being one and the same word , and tantamount to Latin . 
I dare say you are right , said I but why was Italy termed Welschland ? I do not know , said the Hungarian . 
Welsh seems merely a modification of Gwyltiad . 
My grandfather reduced or shortened the coin of this country by three processes . 
By aquafortis , by clipping , and by filing . 
He was connected with a numerous gang , or set , of people , who had given up their minds and talents entirely to shortening . 
Here I interrupted the jockey . 
How touching is this debasement of words in the course of time it puts me in mind of the decay of old houses and names . 
Odd enough , said the jockey but you were saying you knew one Berners man or woman ? I would ask . 
A woman , said I. What might her Christian name be ? said the jockey . 
It is not to be mentioned lightly , said I , with a sigh . 
I shouldn't wonder if it were Isopel , said the jockey with an arch glance of his one brilliant eye . 
Pray proceed with your story , said I I will not interrupt you again . 
Good ! said the jockey . 
'Tis said that misfortune never comes alone this is , however , not always the case . 
This property consisted of a farm of about a hundred acres , with its stock , and some money besides . 
My mother , however , made my father an excellent wife and if my father in the long run did not do well it was no fault of hers . 
My parents were married several years before I came into the world , who was their first and only child . 
Moreover , setting aside the affair of my eye , I had a very ugly countenance my mouth being slightly wrung aside , and my complexion swarthy . 
higher and farther than any one in the parish . 
Moreover , no boy could equal me at riding , and no people ride so well or desperately as boys . 
I was then bound apprentice to a farmer , in whose service I underwent much coarse treatment , cold , and hunger . 
He came to see me , took me into a field , and asked me how I was getting on . 
I asked him what he meant , but he made no reply , only saying that he would go and speak to the farmer . 
The people were companions of my father . 
Some objections appeared to be made to what he said however , all at last seemed to be settled , and we all sat down to some food . 
After that , all the people got up and went away , with the exception of the woman , who remained with my father and me . 
The next day my father also departed , leaving me with the woman , telling me before he went that she would teach me some things which it behoved me to know . 
I remained with her in the cottage upwards of a week several of those who had been there coming and going . 
I made great progress , because , for the first time in my life , I paid great attention to my lessons . 
At last my father returned , and , after some conversation with the woman , took me away in his cart . 
I shall be very short about what happened to my father and myself during two years . 
My father did his best to smash the Bank of England by passing forged notes , and I did my best to assist him . 
As soon as we had got the horses , we conveyed them to one of the places of call belonging to our gang , of which there were several . 
There they were delivered into the hands of our companions , who speedily sold them in a distant part of the country . 
The sum which they fetched for the gang kept very regular accounts formed an important item on the next day of sharing , of which there were twelve in the year . 
This person happened to be at an inn in Yorkshire , where my father , disguised as a Quaker , attempted to pass a forged note . 
The friend of the young man looked at my eye , and seized hold of my father , who made a desperate resistance , I assisting him , as in duty bound . 
Being , however , overpowered by numbers , he bade me by a look , and a word or two in Latin , to make myself scarce . 
Though my heart was fit to break , I obeyed my father , who was speedily committed . 
I followed him to the county town in which he was lodged , where shortly after I saw him tried , convicted , and condemned . 
I then , having made friends with the jailor's wife , visited him in his cell , where I found him very much cast down . 
He reproached himself much , saying , he was afraid he had been my ruin , by teaching me bad habits . 
I told him not to say any such thing , for that I had been the cause of his , owing to the misfortune of my eye . 
He begged me to give over all unlawful pursuits , saying , that if persisted in , they were sure of bringing a person to destruction . 
I was rather hard at that time I am not very soft now and I felt rather ashamed of my father's want of what I called spirit . 
He took an affectionate leave of me before he was sent away , giving me three out of five guineas , all the money he had left . 
He was a kind man , but not exactly fitted to fill my grandfather's shoes . 
I afterwards learned that he died of fever , as he was being carried across the sea . 
During the 'sizes I had made acquaintance with old Fulcher . 
I was in the town on my father's account , and he was there on his son's , who , having committed a small larceny , was in trouble . 
Old Fulcher , besides being an industrious basket maker , was an out and out thief , as was also his son , and , indeed , every member of his family . 
They used to make baskets during the day , and thieve during a great part of the night . 
I had not been with them twelve hours before old Fulcher told me that I must thieve as well as the rest . 
The next night old Fulcher took me out with himself . 
He was a great thief , though in a small way . 
He was all for petty larceny , and knew where to put his hand upon any little thing in England , which it was possible to steal . 
I shan't give a regular account of the larcenies he committed during the short time I knew him , either alone by himself , or with me and his son . 
I shall merely relate the last . 
Old Fulcher got thirty shillings for the carp , which I afterwards heard was much admired and relished by His Majesty . 
The master , however , of the carp , on losing his favourite , became more melancholy than ever , and in a little time hanged himself . 
'What's sport for one , is death to another , I once heard at the village school read out of a copy book . 
This was the last larceny old Fulcher ever committed . 
He could keep his neck always out of the noose , but he could not always keep his leg out of the trap . 
A few nights after , having removed to a distance , he went to an osier car in order to steal some osiers for his basket making , for he never bought any . 
I followed a little way behind . 
Old Fulcher had not got far into the car before he put his foot into a man trap . 
Hearing old Fulcher shriek , I ran up , and found him in a dreadful condition . 
Putting a large stick which I carried into the jaws of the trap , I contrived to prize them open , and get old Fulcher's leg out , but the leg was broken . 
So I ran to the caravan , and told young Fulcher of what had happened , and he and I helped his father home . 
Old Fulcher begged me to think better of it , and his mother joined with him . 
So the next morning I left them I was , as I said before , quite determined upon an honest livelihood , and I soon found one . 
He is a great fool who is ever dishonest in England . 
Any person who has any natural gift , and everybody has some natural gift , is sure of finding encouragement in this noble country of ours , provided he will but exhibit it . 
Without knowing it , I was showing off my gift to others besides myself , doing what , perhaps , not five men in England could do . 
The one was Hopping Ned , and the other Biting Giles . 
So we travelled , I and my companions , showing off our gifts , Giles and I occasionally for a gathering , but Ned never hopping , unless against somebody for a wager . 
CHAPTER XLII A Short tempered Person Gravitation The Best Endowment Mary Fulcher Fair Dealing Horse witchery Darius and his Groom The Jockey's Tricks The Two Characters The Jockey's Song . 
Well , said I , I confess it was wrong in me to interrupt you , and I ask your pardon . 
That won't do , said the jockey , asking pardon won't do . 
Oh , said I , getting up , if asking pardon does not satisfy you , you are a different man from what I considered you . 
By Isten ! there is more learning in what he has just said than in all the verdammt English histories of Thor and Tzernebock I ever read . 
I care nothing for his learning , said the jockey . 
I wonder you are not ashamed of yourself . 
I am rather a short tempered person , but I bear no malice . 
However , I bears no malice . 
Here is a hand to each of you we'll take another glass each , and think no more about it . 
Where was I ? Oh , roaming about the country with Hopping Ned and Biting Giles . 
Those were happy days , and a merry and prosperous life we led . 
However , nothing continues under the sun in the same state in which it begins , and our firm was soon destined to undergo a change . 
The parson , seeing the crowd , came waddling out of his rectory to see what was going on . 
He was called Ugly Moses . 
I was so amazed at his faces , that though poor myself I gave him sixpence , which I have never grudged to this day , for I never saw anything like them . 
The firm throve wonderfully after he had been admitted into it . 
He died some little time ago , keeper of a public house , which he had been enabled to take from the profits of his faces . 
A son of his , one of the children he was making faces to when my comrades entered his door , is at present a barrister , and a very rising one . 
He comes our circuit , and I occasionally employ him , when I am obliged to go to law about such a thing as an unsound horse . 
I have known coves with a better gift of the gab , though not many , but he always speaks to the purpose , and understands law thoroughly and that's not all . 
When at college , for he has been at college , he carried off everything before him as a Latiner , and was first rate at a game they call matthew mattocks . 
I don't exactly know what it is , but I have heard that he who is first rate at matthew mattocks is thought more of than if he were first rate Latiner . 
We all know what all barrister coves looks forward to a seat on the hop sack . 
Well , I'll bet a bull to fivepence , that the grinner gets upon it , and the snarler doesn't at any rate , that he gets there first . 
I have often thought it a pity he wasn't born with a grin on his face like the son of Ugly MOSES . 
After being turned out of the firm , I got my living in two or three honest ways , which I shall not trouble you with describing . 
I did not like any of them , however , as they did not exactly suit my humour at last I found one which did . 
One Saturday afternoon , I chanced to be in the cattle market of a place about eighty miles from here there I won the favour of an old gentleman who sold dickeys . 
The old gentleman was so pleased with my skill , that he took me home with him , and in a very little time into partnership . 
It's a good thing to have a gift , but yet better to have two . 
I lived very comfortably with the old gentleman till he died , which he did in about a fortnight after he had laid his old lady in the ground . 
Having no children , he left me what should remain after he had been buried decently , and the remainder was six dickeys and thirty shillings in silver . 
I remained in the dickey trade ten years , during which time I saved a hundred pounds . 
I then embarked in the horse line . 
Amongst other things , I begged her to have done with her family , and I believe she has never spoken to them since . 
I have thriven very well in business , and my name is up as being a person who can be depended on , when folks treats me handsomely . 
I always make a point when a gentleman comes to me , and says , 'Mr . 
All honest respectable people have at present great confidence in me , and frequently commissions me to buy them horses at great fairs like this . 
I wish now to ask a civil question , Mr. Romany Rye . 
And where did you learn all this ? said the jockey . 
Now tell me , do you bewitch horses in this way ? I ? said the jockey mercy upon us ! I wouldn't do such things for a hatful of money . 
Now you told me something I didn't know , and I'll tell you something which perhaps you do know . 
I takes my bottle in my hand , and goes into a field , suppose by night , where there is a very fine stag horse . 
I manage with great difficulty to get within ten yards of the horse , who stands staring at me just ready to run away . 
I corks up my bottle and puts it into my pocket . 
My business is done , for the next two hours the horse would follow me anywhere the difficulty , indeed , would be to get rid of him . 
In the history of Herod's ass ! said the jockey well , if I did write a book , it should be about something more genteel than a dickey . 
There was a dispute as to who should be king amongst certain imperious chieftains . 
Well , early the next day all the chieftains on their horses appeared in front of the palace before the dawn of day . 
His rider was forthwith elected king , and a brave king he was . 
So this shows what seemingly wonderful things may be brought about by a little preparation . 
It doth , said the jockey what was the chap's name ? His name his name Darius Hystaspes . 
And the groom's ? I don't know . 
And he made a good king ? First rate . 
Only think ! well , if he made a good king , what a wonderful king the groom would have made , through whose knowledge of 'orses he was put on the throne . 
I'll give you an example . 
The same cob could be soothed in a moment by another word , used by the same individual in a very different kind of tone the word was deaghblasda , or sweet tasted . 
There is nothing wonderful to be done , said the jockey , without a good deal of preparation , as I know myself . 
Can either of you lend me a handkerchief ? That won't do , said he , as I presented him with a silk one . 
I wish for a delicate white handkerchief . 
What do you think of that ? said he to the Hungarian . 
Why , that you have ruined me , said the latter . 
I placed this calico above it , and lighted not the handkerchief , but the rag . 
Now I will show you something else . 
I have a magic shilling in my pocket , which I can make run up along my arm . 
But , first of all , I would gladly know whether either of you can do the like . 
How do I do that ? said he , addressing himself to me . 
I really do not know , said I , unless it is by the motion of your arm . 
How is that done ? said he again . 
I suppose you wish to know how I got the hair , said he , grinning at me . 
'I must have a hair first , said I , making a snatch at one . 
And now , Mr. Romany Rye , to testify my regard for you , I give you the shilling and the hair . 
I believe I have told you my history , said he no , not quite there is one circumstance I had passed over . 
I told you that I have thriven very well in business , and so I have , upon the whole at any rate , I find myself comfortably off now . 
I have horses , money , and owe nobody a groat at any rate , nothing but what I could pay to morrow . 
Yet I have had my dreary day , ay , after I had obtained what I call a station in the world . 
I looked round for help , but what do you think ? nobody would help me . 
Somehow or other it had got abroad that I was in difficulties , and everybody seemed disposed to avoid me , as if I had got the plague . 
Those who were always offering me help when I wanted none , now , when they thought me in trouble , talked of arresting me . 
One day , whilst in trouble , I was visited by a person I had occasionally met at sporting dinners . 
I told him that I had none at that time that I could recommend in fact , that every horse in my stable was sick . 
He then invited me to dine with him at an inn close by , and I was glad to go with him , in the hope of getting rid of unpleasant thoughts . 
On paying it to him , I said that I had now a lunch which would just suit him , saying that I would give it to him a free gift for nothing . 
He swore at me telling me to keep my Punch , for that he was suited already . 
I wrung his hand , and told him I would , and I kept my word . 
I arrived at H just in the nick of time . 
There was the ugly jail the scaffold and there upon it stood the only friend I ever had in the world . 
The next moment my eyes water . 
It was by putting in that blow in his second fight with Spring that he beat noble Tom . 
Well , some are born to be hanged , and some are not and many of those who are not hanged are much worse than those who are . 
You ask the reason why , perhaps . 
In my rough way I'll draw their characters from their childhood , and then ask whether Jack was not the best character of the two . 
But Jack is hanged , and my lord it not . 
With her I differs , and says it is from want of courage . 
This Whitefeather , with one particle of Jack's courage , and with one tithe of his good qualities , would have been hanged long ago , for he has ten times Jack's malignity . 
I don't wish to be too hard with him , and so let him make the most of that compliment . 
The jockey then , with a very tolerable voice , sung the following song THE JOCKEY'S SONG . 
Now list to a ditty both funny and true ! Merrily moves the dance along A ditty that tells of a coward and screw , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
Sir Plume , though not liking a bullet at all , Merrily moves the dance along Had yet resolution to go to a BALL , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
Woulez wous danser , mademoiselle ? Merrily moves the dance along Said she , Sir , to dance I should like very well , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
Now , when shall we marry ? the gentleman cried Merrily moves the dance along Sir , get you to Jordan , the damsel replied , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
I never will wed with the pitiful elf Merrily moves the dance along Who ate up the ice which I wanted myself , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
I'd pardon your backing from red Waterloo , Merrily moves the dance along But I never will wed with a coward and screw , My Lord Lieutenant so free and young . 
Ere departing , however , I determined to stroll about and examine the town , and observe more particularly the humours of the fair than I had hitherto an opportunity of doing . 
Come this way , measter , and I will show you some remains of that day's field . 
Ah , the old fellow that my father knew , said he well remembered the time when General Monk went over and proclaimed Charles the Second . 
The more ungrateful scoundrels they , said I. Oliver and his men fought the battle of English independence against a wretched king and corrupt lords . 
Had I been living at the time , I should have been proud to be a trooper of Oliver . 
You would , measter , would you ? Well , I never quarrels with the opinions of people who come to look at the church , and certainly independence is a fine thing . 
What ! said I , the thimble engro of Fair here at Horncastle . 
Advancing nearer , however , I perceived that though the present person was a thimble engro , he was a very different one from my old acquaintance of Fair . 
The present one was a fellow about half a foot taller than the other . 
I observed , on drawing nearer , that he handled the pea and thimble with some awkwardness , like that which might be expected from a novice in the trade . 
He contrived , however , to win several shillings , for he did not seem to play for gold , from their honours . 
Awkward , as he was , he evidently did his best , and never flung a chance away by permitting any one to win . 
Come , cover that , or I shall be off , said the jockey . 
Well , then , produce the value in silver , said the jockey , and do it quickly , for I can't be staying here all day . 
The thimble man hesitated , looked at Jack with a dubious look , then at the gold , and then scratched his head . 
Them that finds wins , and them that can't find LOSES , interrupted Jack , lifting up a thimble , out of which rolled a pea . 
There , paddy , what do you think of that ? said he , seizing the heap of silver with one hand , whilst he pocketed the guinea with the other . 
Cheated you , said Jack , say that again , and I will knock you down . 
Arrah ! sure , master , you knows that the pea under the thimble was not mine here is mine , master now give me back my money . 
I think I saw you among them , and if I were only sure of it , I would take the liberty of trying to give you a big bating . 
You have had enough of trying to give people a beating , said I you had better be taking your table to some skilful carpenter to get it repaired . 
He will do it for sixpence . 
Come , you must not take matters so to heart cheer up such things will happen in connection with the trade you have taken up . 
Och ! the idea of being cheated and bamboozled by that one eyed thief in the horseman's dress . 
Let bygones be bygones , Murtagh , said I it is no use grieving for the past sit down , and let us have a little pleasant gossip . 
You have not forgotten Finn ma Coul , Murtagh , and how he sucked wisdom out of his thumb . 
Sorrow a bit have I forgot about him , Shorsha , said Murtagh , as we sat down together , nor what you yourself told me about the snake . 
Arrah , Shorsha ! what ye told me about the snake , bates anything I ever told you about Finn . 
After which , I said , Now , Murtagh , tit for tat ye will be telling me one of the old stories of Finn ma Coul . 
Och , Shorsha ! I haven't heart enough , said Murtagh . 
Thank you for your tale , but it makes me weep it brings to my mind Dungarvon times of old I mean the times we were at school together . 
Cheer up , man , said I , and let's have the story , and let it be about Ma Coul and the salmon and his thumb . 
Arrah , Shorsha ! I can't . 
Well , to oblige you , I'll give it you . 
Well , you know Ma Coul was an exposed child , and came floating over the salt sea in a chest which was cast ashore at Veintry Bay . 
This giant , whose name was Darmod David Odeen , was not a respectable person at all , but a big old vagabond . 
Stop , Murtagh ! stop ! MURTAGH . 
All the witchcraft , Shorsha . 
Was it not , Shorsha ? The salmon , do you see , was a fairy salmon . 
What a strange coincidence MURTAGH . 
A what , Shorsha ? MYSELF . 
Why , that the very same tale should be told of Finn ma Coul , which is related of Sigurd Fafnisbane . 
What thief was that , Shorsha ? Thief ! 'Tis true , he took the treasure of Fafnir . 
Sigurd was the hero of the North , Murtagh , even as Finn is the great hero of Ireland . 
I have heard you tell the tale of Finn a dozen times in the blessed days of old , but its identity with the tale of Sigurd never occurred to me till now . 
Och , Shorsha ! you , edicated in ould Ireland , to say that the Irish owes anything good to the plundering villains the Siol Loughlin . 
But , Shorsha , the world will never believe ye to say nothing of the Irish part of it . 
How few whom the world believes believe and respect themselves . 
Och , Shorsha ! shall I go on with the tale of Finn ? I'd rather you should not , Murtagh I know all about it already . 
Enough is as good as a feast , Murtagh , I am no longer in the cue for Finn . 
I would rather hear your own history . 
I owe you much , Murtagh you taught me Irish , and I will do all I can to help you . 
Why , then , Shorsha , I'll tell ye my history . 
Here goes ! CHAPTER XLV Murtagh's Tale . 
Sorrow a bit did I ever see of either them , Shorsha , for no one sent me to either . 
This threat obliged me to be more on my guard , though I occasionally contrived to get a game at night , and to win sixpennies and ha'pennies . 
On getting to I was received into the religious house for Irishes . 
In this Irish house I commenced my studies , learning to sing and to read the Latin prayers of the church . 
I soon found that his reverence knew quite as much about card playing as I did . 
Divil a trick was there connected with cards that his reverence did not seem awake to . 
The next day I had other games with him , and so on for a very long time , still playing for nothing . 
At last his reverence grew tired of playing for nothing , and proposed that we should play for money . 
Now , I had no desire to play with his reverence for money , as I knew that doing so would bring on a quarrel . 
As long as we were playing for nothing , I could afford to let his reverence use what tricks he pleased but if we played for money , I couldn't do so . 
If he played his tricks , I must play mine , and use every advantage to save my money and there was one I possessed which his reverence did not . 
Here was a purty alteration . 
He told the cook , moreover , that the rector frequently went out at night to the houses of the great clergy and cheated at cards . 
However , I wish to say nothing against the Pope . 
I apologized to Murtagh for interrupting him , and telling him that his history , whether true or not , was infinitely diverting , begged him to continue it . 
CHAPTER XLVI Murtagh's Story continued The Priest , Exorcist , and Thimble engro How to Check a Rebellion . 
I was pulled away and put out in the ould dungeon , and his Holiness went away sore frighted , crossing himself much , and never returned again . 
There was one thing in it which I disliked the priests drawing their Spanish knives occasionally , when they lost their money . 
I fainted with loss of blood , and on reviving I found myself in a hospital at Seville , to which the labourer and the people of the village had taken me . 
I looked at the play , and saw him win money , and run away , and hunted by constables more than once . 
'Faith , Shorsha , he had better have looked at home , for his appearance was not much in his favour he looked very much like a Jew , Shorsha . 
To that he consented willingly but , och ! a purty hand he made with Irish , 'faith , not much better than I did with his thaives' Hebrew . 
With the table , and other things which I had taken , I commenced trade on my own account , having contrived to learn a few of his tricks . 
I inquired How much would take him to Ireland , and establish him there with credit . 
I am not very rich , I replied , but I think I can accommodate you with what you want . 
Here is the money , Murtagh , said I , putting my hand into my pocket , and taking out five pounds , much good may it do you . 
And you give it me for the gratitude you bear me ? Yes , said I , and for Dungarvon times of old . 
Murtagh and I then went into the town , where we had some refreshment together , and then parted on our several ways . 
There is a holy island in a lake in Ireland , to which the people resort at a particular season of the year . 
He , however , again resumed the political mantle in the year , during the short period of the rebellion of the so called Young Irelanders . 
Murtagh was deemed the best qualified person in Ireland to be entrusted with the delicate office of getting their money from them . 
Having received his instructions , he invited the leaders to his parsonage amongst the mountains , under pretence of deliberating with them about what was to be done . 
Quite furious , they now swore that Murtagh had cheated them , and insisted on having their property restored to them . 
He is the boy to avenge the wrongs of Ireland , if ever foreigner is to do it . 
CHAPTER XLVII Departure from Horncastle Recruiting Sergeant Kauloes and Lolloes . 
LEAVING Horncastle I bent my steps in the direction of the east . 
Sleeping that night in the suburbs of the town , I departed early next morning in the direction of the south . 
A walk of about twenty miles brought me to another large town , situated on a river , where I again turned towards the east . 
At the end of the town I was accosted by a fiery faced individual , somewhat under the middle size , dressed as a recruiting sergeant . 
Young man , said the recruiting sergeant , you are just the kind of person to serve the Honourable East India Company . 
I had rather the Honourable Company should serve me , said I. Of course , young man . 
Well , the Honourable East India Company shall serve you that's reasonable . 
Here , take this shilling 'tis service money . 
The Honourable Company engages to serve you , and you the Honourable Company both parties shall be thus served that's just and reasonable . 
And what must I do for the Company ? Only go to India that's all . 
Kauloes ! said I blacks ! Yes , said the recruiting sergeant and they call us lolloes , which , in their beastly gibberish , means red . 
Why do you stare so ? Why , said I , this is the very language of Mr. Petulengro . 
Mr. Pet ? Yes , said I , and Tawno Chikno . 
Tawno Chik ? I say , young fellow , I don't like your way of speaking no , nor your way of looking . 
You are mad , sir you are mad and what's this ? Why , your hair is grey ! You won't do for the Honourable Company they like red . 
I'm glad I didn't give you the shilling . 
I shouldn't wonder , said I , as I proceeded rapidly along a broad causeway , in the direction of the east , if Mr. Petulengro and Tawno Chikno came originally from India . 
I think I'll go there . 
APPENDIX CHAPTER I A Word for Lavengro . 
It shows him doing no dishonourable jobs , and proves that if he occasionally associates with low characters , he does so chiefly to gratify the curiosity of a scholar . 
At the conclusion of the last chapter , which terminates the first part of the history , it hints that he is about to quit his native land on a grand philological expedition . 
But it contains matters of much more importance than anything in connection with philology , and the literature and manners of nations . 
He is left touching , in order to banish the evil chance from his book , his deity . 
God will not permit that man to rest till he has cured him to a certain extent of his selfishness , which has , however , hitherto been very useful to the world . 
The best medicines are not always found in the finest shops . 
Therefore the author requests the reader to drop any squeamish nonsense he may wish to utter about Mary Flanders , and the manner in which Peter Williams was cured . 
And now with respect to the old man who knew Chinese , but could not tell what was o'clock . 
This individual was a man whose natural powers would have been utterly buried and lost beneath a mountain of sloth and laziness , had not God determined otherwise . 
God had at any rate decreed that this man should not cumber it as a drone . 
But God did not intend that man should merely acquire Chinese . 
If it be observed , that this want of religion is a great defect in the story , the author begs leave to observe that he cannot help it . 
Lavengro relates the lives of people so far as they were placed before him , but no further . 
It is probable that he will go out of the world without knowing what's o'clock . 
THE writer will now say a few words about priestcraft , and the machinations of Rome , and will afterwards say something about himself , and his motives for writing against them . 
With respect to Rome , and her machinations , much valuable information can be obtained from particular parts of Lavengro , and its sequel . 
Shortly before the time when the hero of the book is launched into the world , the Popish agitation in England had commenced . 
The Popish propaganda had determined to make a grand attempt on England Popish priests were scattered over the land , doing the best they could to make converts to the old superstition . 
It is now necessary that the writer should say something with respect to himself , and his motives for waging war against Rome . 
And now a few words with respect to the motives of the writer for expressing a hatred for Rome . 
This expressed abhorrence of the author for Rome might be entitled to little regard , provided it were possible to attribute it to any self interested motive . 
But if not a clergyman , he is the servant of a certain society , which has the overthrow of Popery in view , and therefore , etc . 
This assertion , which has been frequently made , is incorrect , even as those who have made it probably knew it to be . 
He is the servant of no society whatever . 
He eats his own bread , and is one of the very few men in England who are independent in every sense of the word . 
The writer said that certain rulers would never forgive him for having been connected with that society he went perhaps too far in saying never . 
Oh ! the horror which haunts the mind of the two legged rogue who has parted with his principles , or those which he professed for what ? We'll suppose a government . 
But bigotry , it has been said , makes the author write against Popery and thorough going bigotry , indeed , will make a person say or do anything . 
No ! let those who are in search of bigotry , seek for it in a church very different from the inoffensive Church of England , which never encourages cruelty or calumny . 
Let them seek for it amongst the members of the Church of Rome , and more especially amongst those who have renegaded to it . 
It is a mock heroic and religious poem , in which the legends of knight errantry , and of the Popish Church , are turned to unbounded ridicule . 
And he does cut off the hands of his brethren , and carries them to the abbot , who blesses him for so doing . 
Pulci here is holding up to ridicule and execration the horrid butchery or betrayal of friends by popish converts , and the encouragement they receive from the priest . 
CHAPTER III On Foreign Nonsense . 
WITH respect to the third point , various lessons which the book reads to the nation at large , and which it would be well for the nation to ponder and profit by . 
There are many species of nonsense to which the nation is much addicted , and of which the perusal of Lavengro ought to give them a wholesome shame . 
First of all , with respect to the foreign nonsense so prevalent now in England . 
This is particularly the case with those who call themselves German students . 
So it is with these German students no sooner have they taken German in hand than there is nothing like German . 
Of all infatuations connected with what is foreign , the infatuation about everything that is German , to a certain extent prevalent in England , is assuredly the most ridiculous . 
One can find something like a palliation for people making themselves somewhat foolish about particular languages , literatures , and people . 
The Spanish certainly is a noble language , and there is something wild and captivating in the Spanish character , and its literature contains the grand book of the world . 
French is a manly language . 
The French are the great martial people in the world and French literature is admirable in many respects . 
Italian is a sweet language , and of beautiful simplicity its literature perhaps the first in the world . 
The Italians ! wonderful men have sprung up in Italy . 
The Germans ! he has been amongst them , and amongst many other nations , and confesses that his opinion of the Germans , as men , is a very low one . 
I had no peere if to myself I were true , Because I am not so , divers times do I rue . 
But I have such matters rowling in my pate , That I will and do I cannot tell what , etc . 
CHAPTER IV On Gentility Nonsense Illustrations of Gentility . 
but it must be something gorgeous , glittering , or tawdry , to be considered genteel by any of them . 
This person makes his grand debut in the year 'thirty nine , at a public meeting in the principal room of a country inn . 
But in the year 'forty nine , he is really in possession of the fortune which he and his agents pretended to be worth ten years before he is worth a million pounds . 
But the mechanic says , Well , the more fools they to let themselves be robbed . 
But I don't call that kind of thing robbery , I merely call it out witting and everybody in this free country has a right to outwit others if he can . 
It is true that he is rather under sized , but then madam , you know , makes up for all . 
CHAPTER V Subject of Gentility continued . 
The characteristics of a gentleman are high feeling a determination never to take a cowardly advantage of another a liberal education absence of narrow views generosity and courage , propriety of behaviour . 
Now a person may be genteel according to one or another of the three standards described above , and not possess one of the characteristics of a gentleman . 
Genteel ! Why at one time he is a hack author writes reviewals for eighteenpence a page edits a Newgate chronicle . 
The generality of his countrymen are far more careful not to transgress the customs of what they call gentility , than to violate the laws of honour or morality . 
They will shrink from carrying their own carpet bag , and from speaking to a person in seedy raiment , whilst to matters of much higher importance they are shamelessly indifferent . 
He has no abstract love for what is low , or what the world calls low . 
If he learns Irish , which all the world scoffs at , he likewise learns Italian , which all the world melts at . 
If he learns Gypsy , the language of the tattered tent , he likewise learns Greek , the language of the college hall . 
Swimming ? Yes , he learns to swim . 
Ah ! but some sticker up for gentility will exclaim , The hero did not refuse this office from an insurmountable dislike to its ungentility , but merely from a feeling of principle . 
It is not everybody who can mend kettles . 
It is not everybody who is in similar circumstances to those in which Lavengro was . 
Surely he was better employed in plying the trades of tinker and smith than in having recourse to vice , in running after milk maids , for example . 
He took to tinkering and smithery , because no better employments were at his command . 
The Cockney knew what the Lord of Session knew not , that the British public is gentility crazy , and he knew , moreover , that gentility and respectability are synonymous . 
How many a scarlet golden fish has of late perished in the mud amidst thee , cursing the genteel service , and the genteel leader which brought him to such a doom . 
This feeling amongst the vulgar has been , to a certain extent , the bane of two services , naval and military . 
The ringleaders in the mutiny were two scoundrels , Christian and Young , who had great influence with the crew , because they were genteelly connected . 
Bligh himself , in his journal , alludes to this feeling . 
He is our betters , the crew would have said , and it is our duty to obey him . 
The wonderful power of gentility in England is exemplified in nothing more than in what it is producing amongst Jews , Gypsies , and Quakers . 
It is breaking up their venerable communities . 
All the better , some one will say . 
It makes the young Jew ashamed of the young Jewess , it makes her ashamed of the young Jew . 
With respect to the gypsies , it is making the women what they never were before harlots and the men what they never were before careless fathers and husbands . 
It has made the daughter of Ursula the chaste take up with the base drummer of a wild beast show . 
It makes Gorgiko Brown , the gypsy man , leave his tent and his old wife , of an evening , and thrust himself into society which could well dispense with him . 
And the writer will now take the liberty of saying a few words about it on his own account . 
CHAPTER VI On Scotch Gentility Nonsense Charlie o'er the Waterism . 
OF the literature just alluded to Scott was the inventor . 
It was unfortunate enough , it is true but it owed its misfortunes entirely to its crimes , viciousness , bad faith , and cowardice . 
Nothing will be said of it here until it made its appearance in England to occupy the English throne . 
The first of the family which we have to do with , James , was a dirty , cowardly miscreant , of whom the less said the better . 
He was the haughtiest , yet meanest of mankind . 
Of them , it would be difficult to say whether they most hated or despised him . 
One day he favoured Popery the next , on hearing certain clamours of the people , he sent his wife's domestics back packing to France , because they were Papists . 
Papists , however , should make him a saint , for he was certainly the cause of the taking of Rochelle . 
He was too lazy and sensual to delight in playing the part of a tyrant himself but he never checked tyranny in others save in one instance . 
He was the personification of selfishness and as he loved and cared for no one , so did no one love or care for him . 
This worthy , in his last will , bequeathed his heart to England his right arm to Scotland and his bowels to Ireland . 
He was of a mean appearance , and , like his father , pusillanimous to a degree . 
He only stayed a short time in Scotland , and then , seized with panic , retreated to France , leaving his friends to shift for themselves as they best could . 
He died a pensioner of the Pope . 
When old , he was loathsome and contemptible to both friend and foe . 
In the year he came down from the Highlands of Scotland , which had long been a focus of rebellion . 
It was , indeed , Charlie o'er the water , and canny Highlanders o'er the water , but where were the poor prostitutes meantime ? IN THE WATER . 
The last of the Stuarts was a cardinal . 
Such were the Stuarts , such their miserable history . 
He wrote splendid novels about the Stuarts , in which he represents them as unlike what they really were as the graceful and beautiful papillon is unlike the hideous and filthy worm . 
In a word , he made them genteel , and that was enough to give them paramount sway over the minds of the British people . 
The public became Stuart mad , and everybody , specially the women , said , What a pity it was that we hadn't a Stuart to govern . 
All parties , Whig , Tory , or Radical , became Jacobite at heart , and admirers of absolute power . 
As for Tories , no great change in them was necessary everything favouring absolutism and slavery being congenial to them . 
As the Priest sarcastically observes in the text , As all the Jacobs were Papists , so the good folks who through Scott's novels admire the Jacobs must be Papists too . 
An idea got about that the religion of such genteel people as the Stuarts must be the climax of gentility , and that idea was quite sufficient . 
It did come immediately from Oxford , but how did it get to Oxford ? Why , from Scott's novels . 
Hurrah for the Church , and the principles of my FATHER ! CHAPTER VII Same Subject continued . 
Those who were born great , were , if he could have had his will , always to remain great , however worthless their characters . 
Scott was descended from the old cow stealers of Buccleuch was he ? Good ! and Murat was descended from the old Moors of Spain , from the Abencerages of Granada . 
The name Murat is Arabic , and is the same as Murad . 
But the writer of the novel of Bonaparte did not know that the names were one and the same . 
PORNY'S WAR OF THE GODS . 
He dies , his children die too , and then comes the crowning judgment of God on what remains of his race and the house which he had built . 
Money abounds with the husband , who buys the house , and then the house becomes the rankest Popish house in Britain . 
In their histories , they too talk about the Prince and Glenfinnan , and the pibroch and in their songs about Claverse and Bonny Dundee . 
But though they may be Scots , they are not Walter Scotts . 
CHAPTER VIII On Canting Nonsense . 
THE writer now wishes to say something on the subject of canting nonsense , of which there is a great deal in England . 
There are various cants in England , amongst which is the religious cant . 
Temperance canters say that it is unlawful to drink a glass of ale . 
Unmanly canters say that it is unlawful to use one's fists . 
The writer begs leave to tell both these species of canters that they do not speak words of truth . 
The Holy Scripture sayeth nothing to the contrary , but rather encourageth people in so doing by the text , Wine maketh glad the heart of man . 
But it is not lawful to intoxicate yourself with frequent cups of ale or wine , nor to make others intoxicated , nor does the Holy Scripture say it is . 
Noah is not commended in the Scripture for making himself drunken on the wine he brewed . 
Nor is it said that the Saviour , when he supplied the guests with first rate wine at the marriage feast , told them to make themselves drunk upon it . 
He is said to have supplied them with first rate wine , but He doubtless left the quantity which each should drink to each party's reason and discretion . 
When you set a good dinner before your guests , you do not expect that they should gorge themselves with the victuals you set before them . 
Wine may be abused , and so may a leg of mutton . 
Moses is not blamed in the Scripture for taking part with the oppressed , and killing an Egyptian persecutor . 
He likewise tells these people to part with various articles of raiment when asked for them , and to go a travelling without money , and take no thought of the morrow . 
The conduct of Lavengro with respect to drink may , upon the whole , serve as a model . 
He has a motive indeed in doing so a desire to learn from the knave in his cups the plans and hopes of the Propaganda of Rome . 
In that instance the hero is certainly wrong yet in all other cases with regard to drink , he is manifestly right . 
Some cants are not dangerous but the writer believes that a more dangerous cant than the temperance cant , or as it is generally called , teetotalism , is scarcely to be found . 
Let the reader note particularly the purpose to which this cry has been turned in America the land , indeed , par excellence , of humbug and humbug cries . 
It is there continually in the mouth of the most violent political party , and is made an instrument of almost unexampled persecution . 
The writer would say more on the temperance cant , both in England and America , but want of space prevents him . 
There is one point on which he cannot avoid making a few brief remarks that is , the inconsistent conduct of its apostles in general . 
The teetotal apostle says , it is a dreadful thing to be drunk . 
You are fond of telling your hearers what an awful thing it is to die drunken . 
So it is , teetotaller . 
One word of sense you have been heard to say , which is , that spirits may be taken as a medicine . 
Now you are in a fever of passion , teetotaller so , pray take this tumbler of brandy take it on the homoeopathic principle , that heat is to be expelled by heat . 
You are in a temperance fury , so swallow the contents of this tumbler , and it will , perhaps , cure you . 
You look at the glass wistfully you occasionally take a glass medicinally and it is probable you do . 
Consider what a dreadful thing it would be to die passion drunk to appear before your Maker with intemperate language on your lips . 
That's right ! You don't seem to wince at the brandy . 
That's right ! well done ! All down in two pulls . 
Ay , but he associates with prize fighters and that very fellow , Petulengro , is a prize fighter , and has fought for a stake in a ring . 
Now let any man of the present day try to whiffle . 
The old chap left his sword behind him let any one take up the old chap's sword and try to whiffle . 
Yet are the people better than they were when they knew how to use their fists ? The writer believes not . 
Is polite taste better than when it could bear the details of a fight ? The writer believes not . 
Some of them have been as noble , kindly men as the world ever produced . 
A woman was rescued from the top of a burning house but the man who rescued her was no aristocrat it was Pearce , not Percy , who ran up the burning stairs . 
Did ever one of those glittering ones save a fainting female from the libidinous rage of six ruffians ? The writer believes not . 
Beating of women by the lords of the creation has become very prevalent in England since pugilism has been discountenanced . 
Such is the deliberate advice of the author to his countrymen and women advice in which he believes there is nothing unscriptural or repugnant to common sense . 
Now , there are many writers of the present day whose conduct is very similar to that of the sailor . 
The strongest party had the sailor , and the strongest party has almost invariably the writer of the present day . 
A CERTAIN set of individuals calling themselves critics have attacked Lavengro with much virulence and malice . 
If what they call criticism had been founded on truth , the author would have had nothing to say . 
The duty of the true critic is to play the part of a leech , and not of a viper . 
Upon true and upon malignant criticism there is an excellent fable by the Spaniard Iriarte . 
There is as much difference , says the clever Spaniard , between true and malignant criticism , as between poison and medicine . 
First of all , however , he will notice one of their objections . 
The book isn't true , say they . 
We can't abide anything that isn't true ! they exclaim . 
Critics , when they review books , ought to have a competent knowledge of the subjects which those books discuss . 
Lavengro is a philological book , a poem if you choose to call it so . 
We duncie ! Ay , duncie . 
So here ye are held up by the tails , blood and foam streaming from your jaws . 
Oh , this will never do . 
These are fine lines ! The lines perhaps some horrid sycophantic rubbish addressed to Wellington , or Lord So and so . 
The WE says its say , but when fawning sycophancy or vulgar abuse are taken from that say , what remains ? Why a blank , a void like Ginnungagap . 
These people paint their cheeks , wear white kid gloves , and dabble in literature , or what they conceive to be literature . 
For abuse from such people , the writer was prepared . 
No , he is not going to waste words upon them , for verily he dislikes their company , and so he'll pass them by , and proceed to others . 
Two or three of their remarks on passages of Lavengro , he will reproduce and laugh at . 
Of course your Charlie o'er the water people are genteel exceedingly , and cannot abide anything low . 
He will now tell them what it is not a sister or an immediate daughter of the Sanscrit , which Romany is . 
About these people the writer will presently have occasion to say a good deal , and also of real Radicals . 
ABOUT Wellington , then , he says , that he believes him at the present day to be infinitely overrated . 
But there certainly was a time when he was shamefully underrated . 
Now what time was that ? Why the time of pseudo Radicalism , par excellence , from to . 
Wellington was turned out , and your Whigs and Radicals got in , and then commenced the period of ultra gentility in England . 
And why ? Because he was a duke , petted at Windsor and by foreign princes , and a very genteel personage . 
So they were willing to worship Wellington because he was very genteel , and could not keep the plunder of the country out of their hands . 
And Wellington has been worshipped , and prettily so , during the last fifteen or twenty years . 
His conduct to Warner , the poor Vaudois , and Marshal Ney , showed that . 
England has produced a better general France two or three both countries many braver men . 
The son of the Norfolk clergyman was a brave man Marshal Ney was a braver man . 
The writer has always had as much admiration for everything that is real and honest as he has had contempt for the opposite . 
a compound of petty larceny , popular instruction , and receiving of stolen goods . 
The writer wishes to speak in particular of two of these men , both of whom perished on the scaffold their names were Thistlewood and Ings . 
Thistlewood , who was , perhaps , the most calm and collected of all , just before he was turned off , said , We are now going to discover the great secret . 
Ings , the moment before he was choked , was singing Scots wha ha' wi' Wallace bled . 
Now there was no humbug about those men , nor about many more of the same time and of the same principles . 
Thistlewood tells the mob the Tower is a second Bastile let it be pulled down . 
A mob tries to pull down the Tower but Thistlewood is at the head of that mob he is not peeping from a garret on Tower Hill like Gulliver at Lisbon . 
Thistlewood and Ings say to twenty ragged individuals , Liverpool and Castlereagh are two satellites of despotism it would be highly desirable to put them out of the way . 
Now , these people were humbugs , which Thistlewood and Ings were not . 
Assuredly great is the cleverness of your Radicals of , in providing for themselves and their families . 
The writer is no admirer of Gothe , but the idea of that parvenu was certainly a good one . 
Now , this class of individuals entertain a mortal hatred for Lavengro and its writer , and never lose an opportunity of vituperating both . 
It is true that such hatred is by no means surprising . 
CHAPTER XI The Old Radical . 
This very dirty man , with his very dirty face , Would do any dirty act , which would get him a place . 
On the Lion asking the doctor what he meant , the Welshman , whose under jaw began to move violently , replied , that he meant what he said . 
Here the matter ended , for the Lion , turning from him , looked at the writer . 
The writer thought it rather odd that , after he himself had become acquainted with the Sclavonian languages and literature , the man of the spectacles talked little or nothing about them . 
In a little time , however , the matter ceased to cause him the slightest surprise , for he had discovered a key to the mystery . 
He managed , however , to ride out many a storm , having one trusty sheet anchor Radicalism . 
But may not many people be far more worthy of the appointment than myself ? said the writer . 
Where ? said the friendly Radical . 
And , in fact , it would appear that the honest and friendly patriot put his threat into execution . 
I have spoken , said he , more than once to this and that individual in Parliament , and everybody seems to think that the appointment should be given to you . 
Nay , that you should be forced to accept it . 
I intend next to speak to Lord A And so he did , at least it would appear so . 
Yes , said he , looking at the writer , he did indeed . 
What a scandal ! what an infamy ! But I see how it will be , it will be a job . 
The place will be given to some son of a steward or to some quack , as I said before . 
Oh , these Tories ! Well , if this does not make one Here he stopped short , crunched his teeth , and looked the image of desperation . 
Shortly afterwards the Tories were out , and the Whigs were in . 
So , though the place was given to a quack , and the whole affair a very pretty job , it was one in which the Tories had certainly no hand . 
In the meanwhile , however , the friendly Radical did not drop the writer . 
See what information he possesses and see that book written by himself in the court language of Serendib . 
This is the only man to send there . 
Let no one think the writer uncharitable in these suppositions . 
This was his especial practice with regard to translation , of which he would fain be esteemed the king . 
Well , the Radical got the appointment , and the writer certainly did not grudge it him . 
He had never sought for the appointment , nor wished for it , nor , indeed , ever believed himself to be qualified for it . 
He was conscious , it is true , that he was not altogether unacquainted with the language and literature of the country with which the appointment was connected . 
He was likewise aware that he was not altogether deficient in courage and in propriety of behaviour . 
Both of their own accord introduced the subject of Lavengro . 
See Muses' Library , pp . 
Genteel with them seems to be synonymous with Gentile and Gentoo if so , the manner in which it has been applied for ages ceases to surprise , for genteel is heathenish . 
Ideas of barbaric pearl and gold , glittering armour , plumes , tortures , blood shedding , and lust , should always be connected with it . 
Wace , in his grand Norman poem , calls the Baron genteel La furent li gentil Baron , etc . 
What could ever have made the English such admirers of gentility , it would be difficult to say for , during three hundred years , they suffered enough by it . 
Their genteel Norman landlords were their scourgers , their torturers , the plunderers of their homes , the dishonourers of their wives , and the deflourers of their daughters . 
Perhaps , after all , fear is at the root of the English veneration for gentility . 
Gentle and gentlemanly may be derived from the same root as genteel but nothing can be more distinct from the mere genteel , than the ideas which enlightened minds associate with these words . 
Gentle and gentlemanly mean something kind and genial genteel , that which is glittering or gaudy . 
A person can be a gentleman in rags , but nobody can be genteel . 
The writer has been checked in print by the Scotch with being a Norfolk man . 
It would have been well for Britain had she had the old Norfolk man to dispatch to the Baltic or the Black sea , lately , instead of Scotch admirals . 
As the present work will come out in the midst of a vehement political contest , people may be led to suppose that the above was written expressly for the time . 
The writer therefore begs to state that it was written in the year . 
He cannot help adding that he is neither Whig , Tory , nor Radical , and cares not a straw what party governs England , provided it is governed well . 
But he has no hopes of good government from the Whigs . 
If Palmerston would govern well , he must get rid of them but from that step , with all his courage and all his greatness , he will shrink . 
Yet how proper and easy a step it would be ! He could easily get better , but scarcely worse , associates . 
They appear to have one object in view , and only one jobbery . 
It was chiefly owing to a most flagitious piece of jobbery , which one of his lordship's principal colleagues sanctioned and promoted , that his lordship experienced his late parliamentary disasters . 
