But later , when the faculties have regained their equilibrium , one can measure the distance which separates the dream from reality , the project from execution . 
And on setting to work , how many discouragements arise ! The fever of revolt passes by , and the victim wavers . 
He still breathes bitter vengeance , but he does not act . 
He despairs , and asks himself what would be the good of it ? And in this way the success of villainy is once more assured . 
Similar despondency attacked Pascal Ferailleur when he awoke for the first time in the abode where he had hidden himself under the name of Maumejan . 
So the hope that had momentarily lightened his heart faded away again . 
What would be the use of victory even if he conquered ? Marguerite lost to him what did the rest matter ? Ah ! if he had been alone in the world . 
But he had his mother to think of he belonged to this brave hearted woman , who had saved him from suicide already . 
I will not yield , then I will struggle on for her sake , he muttered , like a man who foresees the futility of his efforts . 
He rose , and had nearly finished dressing , when he heard a rap at his chamber door . 
It is I , my son , said Madame Ferailleur outside . 
Pascal hastened to admit her . 
I have come for you because the woman you spoke about last evening is already here , and before employing her , I want your advice . 
Then the woman doesn't please you , mother ? I want you to see her . 
On entering the little parlor with his mother , Pascal found himself in the presence of a portly , pale faced woman , with thin lips and restless eyes , who bowed obsequiously . 
It certainly was not for pleasure that she had decided to go out to service again her dignity suffered terribly by this fall but then the stomach has to be cared for . 
Tenants were not numerous at the model lodging house , in spite of its seductive title and those who slept there occasionally , almost invariably succeeded in stealing something . 
What would you charge per month ? inquired Pascal . 
I shall do the marketing myself , declared Madame Ferailleur , boldly . 
Then I shall want thirty francs a month , replied Madame Vantrasson , promptly . 
Pascal and his mother exchanged glances . 
They were both unfavorably impressed by this woman , and were equally determined to rid themselves of her , which it was easy enough to do . 
Too dear ! said Madame Ferailleur I have never given over fifteen francs . 
She could only hope to obtain employment from strangers and newcomers , who were ignorant of the reputation of the model lodging house . 
For she belonged , like her husband , to a very respectable family , as the Maumejans might easily ascertain by inquiry . 
Vantrasson's sister was the wife of a man named Greloux , who had once been a bookbinder in the Rue Saint Denis , but who had now retired from business with a competency . 
However , these doleful complaints , far from rendering Madame Vantrasson interesting , imparted a deceitful and most disagreeable expression to her countenance . 
I told you that I could only give fifteen francs , interrupted Madame Ferailleur take it or leave it . 
If he were still alive I shouldn't be compelled to go out to service again . 
But he's dead and he's to be buried this very day . 
And with an air of profound secrecy , she added On going yesterday to the Hotel de Chalusse to ask for a little help , I heard of the great misfortune . 
Now , however , she's a young lady as lofty as the clouds , and the deceased count has been passing her off as his daughter . 
Ah ! this is a strange world . 
Pascal had become whiter than the ceiling . 
His eyes blazed and Madame Ferailleur trembled . 
Very well , she said , I will give you twenty five francs but on condition you come without complaining if I sometimes require your services of an evening . 
On these occasions I will give you your dinner . 
And taking five francs from her pocket she placed them in Madame Vantrasson's hand , adding Here is your earnest money . 
The other quickly pocketed the coin , not a little surprised by this sudden decision which she had scarcely hoped for , and which she by no means understood . 
If it had not been for me you would have betrayed yourself in that woman's presence . 
Pascal shook his head dejectedly . 
Didn't you hear , mother ? he faltered . 
Hear what ? What that vile woman said ? This young lady whom she spoke of , whom her husband recognized , can be none other than Marguerite . 
I am sure of it . 
You are sure of it ! he repeated and you can tell me this unmoved coldly , as if it were a natural , a possible thing . 
Madame Ferailleur would have thrown her arms round her son's neck , and have mingled her tears with his , but reason prevailed . 
In that case , mother , said Pascal , you were wrong to interrupt Madame Vantrasson . 
She would probably have told us many things . 
I interrupted her , it is true , and sent her away and you know why . 
But she is in our service now and when you are calm , when you have regained your senses , nothing will prevent you from questioning her . 
It may be useful for you to know who this man Vantrasson is , and how and where he met Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Shame , sorrow , and rage , brought tears to Pascal's eyes . 
My God ! he exclaimed , to be reduced to the unspeakable misery of hearing my mother doubt Marguerite ! He did not doubt her . 
HE could have listened to the most infamous accusations against her without feeling a single doubt . 
However , Madame Ferailleur had sufficient self control to shrug her shoulders . 
Ah , well ! silence this slander , she exclaimed . 
I wish for nothing better but don't forget that we have ourselves to rehabilitate . 
To crush your enemies will be far more profitable to Mademoiselle Marguerite than vain threats and weak lamentations . 
It seemed to me that you had sworn to act , not to complain . 
This ironical thrust touched Pascal's sensitive mind to the quick he rose at once to his feet , and coldly said , That's true . 
I thank you for having recalled me to myself . 
She made no rejoinder , but mentally thanked God . 
She had read her son's heart , and perceiving his hesitation and weakness she had supplied the stimulus he needed . 
Now she saw him as she wished to see him . 
Now he was ready to reproach himself for his lack of courage and his weakness in displaying his feelings . 
And as a test of his powers of endurance , he decided not to question Madame Vantrasson till four or five days had elapsed . 
If her suspicions had been aroused , this delay would suffice to dispel them . 
He said but little during breakfast for he was now eager to commence the struggle . 
He longed to act , and yet he scarcely knew how to begin the campaign . 
He remembered that this strange man had said If you ever need a helping hand , come to me . 
And at the recollection he made up his mind . 
I am going to Baron Trigault's , he remarked to his mother if my presentiments don't deceive me , he will be of service to us . 
In less than half an hour he was on his way . 
The visiting cards which he carried in his pocket bore the inscription P. Maumejan , Business Agent , Route de la Revolte . 
His knowledge of Parisian life had induced him to choose the same profession as M. Fortunat followed a profession which opens almost every door . 
I will enter the nearest cafe and ask for a directory , he said to himself . 
I shall certainly find Baron Trigault's address in it . 
The baron lived in the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque . 
The marvellous luxury so surprised Pascal , that he asked himself how the owner of this princely abode could find any pleasure at the gaming table of the Hotel d'Argeles . 
Five or six footmen were lounging about the courtyard when he entered it . 
His surprise , indeed , seemed so profound that Pascal feared he had made some mistake and added Doesn't he live here ? The servant laughed heartily . 
This is certainly his house , he replied , and strange to say , by some fortunate chance , he's here . 
I wish to speak with him on business . 
The servant called one of his colleagues . 
Eh ! Florestan is the baron receiving ? The baroness hasn't forbidden it . 
This seemed to satisfy the footman for , turning to Pascal he said In that case , you can follow me . 
The sumptuous interior of the Trigault mansion was on a par with its external magnificence . 
Even the entrance bespoke the lavish millionaire , eager to conquer difficulties , jealous of achieving the impossible , and never haggling when his fancies were concerned . 
The spacious hall , paved with costly mosaics , had been transformed into a conservatory full of flowers , which were renewed every morning . 
Tell me , inquired the servant who was escorting Pascal , can any one speak to the baron ? Why ? This gentleman has something to say to him . 
Upon my word ! exclaimed the eldest , he's just in time . 
Announce him , and madame will be greatly obliged to you . 
She and monsieur have been quarrelling for a good half hour . 
Madame's dressmaker ? The same . 
Monsieur and madame were breakfasting together a most unusual thing when M. Van Klopen made his appearance . 
There isn't a cab driver in Paris who's his equal for swearing . 
He has decidedly the best of the row . 
He has furnished the goods , and he'll have to be paid sooner or later What ! hasn't he been paid then ? I don't know he's still here . 
A terrible crash of breaking china interrupted this edifying conversation . 
There ! exclaimed one of the footmen , that's monsieur he has smashed two or three hundred francs' worth of dishes . 
He MUST be rich to pay such a price for his angry fits . 
Well , observed the other , if I were in monsieur's place I should be angry too . 
Would you let your wife have her dresses fitted on by a man ? I says that it's indecent . 
I'm only a servant , but Nonsense , it's the fashion . 
Besides , monsieur does not care about that . 
A man who He stopped short in fact , the others had motioned him to be silent . 
The baron was surrounded by exceptional servants , and the presence of a stranger acted as a restraint upon them . 
A profusion of rare and costly objects was to be seen on all sides , armor , statuary , pictures , and richly ornamented weapons . 
But Pascal , already amazed by the conversation of the servants , did not think of examining these objects of virtu . 
Through a partially open doorway , directly opposite the one he had entered by , came the sound of loud voices in excited conversation . 
Baron Trigault , the baroness , and the famous Van Klopen were evidently in the adjoining room . 
It is hard for the wife of one of the richest men in Paris to see a bill for absolute necessities disputed in this style , she was saying . 
A man's voice , with a strong Teutonic accent , the voice of Van Klopen , the Hollander , caught up the refrain . 
Yes , strict necessities , one can swear to that . 
Besides I haven't time to listen to your nonsense they are waiting for me to play a game of whist at the club . 
This time it was the master of the house , Baron Trigault , who spoke , and Pascal recognized his voice instantly . 
If monsieur would only allow me to read the items . 
It will take but a moment , rejoined Van Klopen . 
I was obliged to attend the races very frequently during the month of June , remarked the baroness . 
But the illustrious adorner of female loveliness had already resumed his reading . 
There are but few entries in the month of August , continued Van Klopen . 
Pascal stood in the smoking room , motionless with astonishment . 
At last , after what seemed an interminable enumeration , Van Klopen exclaimed And that's all ! Yes , that's all , repeated the baroness , like an echo . 
Call it twenty eight thousand francs then . 
Ah , well , M. Van Klopen , if you are ever paid for this rubbish it won't be by me . 
What amazed him most was the baron's perfect calmness , following , as it did , such a fit of furious passion , violent enough even to be heard in the vestibule . 
Either he has extraordinary control over himself or this scene conceals some mystery , thought Pascal . 
Very well I don't pay for them there's the difference . 
There may be husbands who believe themselves responsible for their wives' follies it's quite possible there are but I'm not made of that kind of stuff . 
I allow Madame Trigault eight thousand francs a month for her toilette that is sufficient and it is a matter for you and her to arrange together . 
What did I tell you last year when I paid a bill of forty thousand francs ? That I would not be responsible for any more of my wife's debts . 
And I not only said it , I formally notified you through my private secretary . 
I remember , indeed Then why do you come to me with your bill ? It is with my wife that you have opened an account . 
Apply to her , and leave me in peace . 
Madame promised me Teach her to keep her promises . 
It costs a great deal to retain one's position as a leader of fashion and many of the most distinguished ladies are obliged to run into debt , urged Van Klopen . 
But my wife is not a fine lady . 
She is simply Madame Trigault , a baroness , thanks to her husband's gold and the condescension of a worthy German prince , who was in want of money . 
SHE is not a person of consequence she has no rank to keep up . 
I have been a little extravagant , perhaps , she said but I will be more prudent in future . 
Pay , monsieur pay just once more . 
No ! If not for my sake , for your own . 
By the baron's tone , Pascal realized that his wife would never shake his fixed determination . 
Such must also have been the opinion of the illustrious ruler of fashion , for he returned to the charge with an argument he had held in reserve . 
Send him along send him along . 
I cannot believe that monsieur wishes a law suit . 
In that you are greatly mistaken . 
Nothing would please me better . 
It would at last give me an opportunity to say what I think about your dealings . 
Do you think that wives are to turn their husbands into machines for supplying money ? You draw the bow string too tightly , my dear fellow it will break . 
I'll proclaim on the house top what others dare not say , and we'll see if I don't succeed in organizing a little crusade against you . 
That's your system but , with me , it won't succeed . 
You threaten me with a law suit very good . 
I'll take it upon myself to enlighten Paris , for I know your secrets , Mr. Dressmaker . 
I know the goings on in your establishment . 
It isn't always to talk about dress that ladies stop at your place on returning from the Bois . 
When M. Van Klopen was addressed in this style , he was not at all pleased . 
And I ! he exclaimed , I will tell people that Baron Trigault , after losing all his money at play , repays his creditors with curses . 
Then a door closed with such violence that the whole house shook , and a magnificent clock , fixed to the wall of the smoking room , fell on to the floor . 
If Pascal had not heard this scene , he would have deemed it incredible . 
For what was this amount to a confirmed gambler who , without as much as a frown , gained or lost a fortune every evening of his life . 
And undoubtedly , a good many of the insults which the baron had heaped upon Van Klopen must have been intended for the baroness . 
These thoughts darted through Pascal's mind with the rapidity of lightning , and showed him the horrible position in which he was placed . 
He therefore noisily moved a chair , and coughed in that affected style which means in every country Take care I'm here ! But he did not succeed in attracting attention . 
He was about to do so , when some one opened a door which must have led from the hall into the dining room . 
He listened attentively , but only heard a few confused words , to which the baron replied Very well . 
I will see him in a moment . 
Pascal breathed freely once more . 
They have just given him my card , he thought . 
I can remain now he will come here in a moment . 
You will brave the disgrace of a law suit ? Nonsense ! You know very well that he won't bring any action against me unfortunately . 
I should see nothing so very improper in that . 
Only your ideas don't coincide with mine . 
I shall never consent to make myself ridiculous among the ladies of my set among my friends . 
It would indeed be a pity to arouse the disapproval of your friends . 
If it is scandal that crowns one a great lady , you ARE one and one of the greatest for you are notorious almost as notorious as Jenny Fancy . 
I should be a very strange husband indeed , if I wasn't proud and delighted . 
Ah ! you are a treasure to the reporters . 
On the day before yesterday the Baroness Trigault skated in the Bois . 
Yesterday she was driving in her pony carriage . 
To day she distinguished herself by her skill at pigeon shooting . 
To morrow she will display herself half nude in some tableaux vivants . 
On the day after to morrow she will inaugurate a new style of hair dressing , and take part in a comedy . 
It is always the Baroness Trigault who is the observed of all observers at Vincennes . 
The Baroness Trigault has lost five hundred louis in betting . 
The Baroness Trigault uses her lorgnette with charming impertinence . 
It is she who has declared it proper form to take a 'drop' on returning from the Bois . 
No one is so famed for 'form , as the baroness and silk merchants have bestowed her name upon a color . 
This is what I , a plain , honest man , read every day in the newspapers . 
No one is ignorant of the fact that my wife's shoulders are of dazzling whiteness , and that high on the left shoulder there is a most enticing little mole . 
I had the satisfaction of reading this particular last evening . 
Would you like me to fight a duel then ? After twenty years has the idea of ridding yourself of me occurred to you again ? I can scarcely believe it . 
You know too well that you would receive none of my money , that I have guarded against that . 
Besides , you would be inconsolable if the newspapers ceased talking about you for a single day . 
Respect yourself , and you will be respected . 
The publicity you complain of is the last anchor which prevents society from drifting one knows not where . 
Those who would not listen to the warning voice of honor and conscience are restrained by the fear of a little paragraph which might disclose their shame . 
Now that a woman no longer has a conscience , the newspapers act in place of it . 
And I think it quite right , for it is our only hope of salvation . 
By the stir in the adjoining room , Pascal felt sure that the baroness had stationed herself before the door to prevent her husband from leaving her . 
Ah ! well , monsieur , she exclaimed , I declare to you that I must have Van Klopen's twenty eight thousand francs before this evening . 
I will have them , too I am resolved to have them , and you will give them to me . 
Oh ! thundered the baron , you WILL have them you will He paused , and then , after a moment's reflection , he said Very well . 
So be it ! I will give you this amount , but not just now . 
Still if , as you say , it is absolutely necessary that you should have it to day , there is a means of procuring it . 
Pawn your diamonds for thirty thousand francs I authorize you to do so and I give you my word of honor that I will redeem them within a week . 
It is false ! The baron sneered . 
You certainly must think me a much greater fool than I really am ! he replied . 
I'm not often at home , it's true the sight of you exasperates me but I know what's going on . 
You believe me your dupe , but you are altogether mistaken . 
It is not twenty seven thousand francs you owe Van Klopen , but fifty or sixty thousand . 
However , he is careful not to demand payment . 
He no longer thought of flying he no longer thought of reproaching himself for his enforced indiscretion . 
He had lost all consciousness of his position . 
The name of the Viscount de Coralth , thus mentioned in the course of this frightful scene , came as a revelation to him . 
He now understood the meaning of the baron's conduct . 
His visit to the Rue d'Ulm , and his promises of help were all explained . 
My mother was right , he thought the baron hates that miserable viscount mortally . 
He will do all in his power to assist me . 
Meanwhile , the baroness energetically denied her husband's charges . 
She swore that she did not know what he meant . 
What had M. de Coralth to do with all this ? She commanded her husband to speak more plainly to explain his odious insinuations . 
Fool that I was ! No task seemed too hard or too distasteful when I thought of you and I was always thinking of you . 
My mind was at peace I had perfect faith in you . 
We had a daughter and if a fear or a doubt entered my mind , I told myself that the sight of her cradle would drive all evil thoughts from your heart . 
For this was not all ! You had not even the excuse , if excuse it be , of a powerful , all absorbing passion . 
Convinced of your treachery , I resolved to ascertain everything , and I discovered that in my absence you had become a mother . 
It was because I dreamed of a vengeance as terrible as the offence . 
I said to myself that the day would come when , at any risk , you would try to see your child again , to embrace her , and provide for her future . 
Yes , always ! You must know , however , that this story of a child is only a vile slander . 
I told you so when you spoke of it to me a dozen years afterward . 
I have repeated it a thousand times since . 
I trembled lest the scandal of a separation should fall upon her . 
But it was useless suffering on my part . 
And , at this very hour , my daughter and my son in law are plotting to extort money from me . 
I was horrified and gave him what he asked . 
But that same evening I learned that the husband and wife , my daughter and my son in law , had concocted this vile conspiracy together . 
Yes , I have positive proofs of it . 
Leaving here , and not wishing to return home that day , he telegraphed the good news to his wife . 
But in his delight he made a mistake in the address , and the telegram was brought here . 
I opened it , and read 'Papa has fallen into the trap , my darling . 
I beat my drum , and he surrendered at once . 
Yes , that is what he dared to write , and sign with his own name , and then send to his wife my daughter ! Pascal was absolutely terrified . 
He wondered if he were not the victim of some absurd nightmare if his senses were not playing him false . 
He had little conception of the terrible dramas which are constantly enacted in these superb mansions , so admired and envied by the passing crowd . 
He thought that the baroness would be crushed that she would fall on her knees before her husband . 
What a mistake ! The tone of her voice told him that , instead of yielding , she was only bent on retaliation . 
Does your son in law do anything worse than you ? she exclaimed . 
People say , 'That great Baron Trigault is never without cards in his hands ! But you know very well that I really hold gambling in horror that I loathe it . 
But when I play , I sometimes forget for I must forget . 
I have seen her several times in the Bois Be silent ! exclaimed the baron , be silent ! Don't insult an unfortunate woman who is a thousand times better than yourself . 
How was it that she did not perceive him ? No doubt , because she was greatly agitated , in spite of her bravado . 
And , besides , he was standing a little back in the shade . 
But he saw her , and his brain reeled . 
Good Lord ! what a likeness ! he murmured . 
The noise restored him to consciousness of his position . 
It is the baron ! he thought he is coming this way ! If he finds me here I am lost he will never consent to help me . 
A man would never forgive another man for hearing what I have just heard . 
Why should he not try to make his escape ? The card , bearing the name of Maumejan , would be no proof of his visit . 
He could see the baron somewhere else some other day elsewhere than at his own house , so that he need not fear the recognition of the servants . 
These thoughts flashed through his mind , and he was about to fly , when a harsh cry held him spell bound . 
Baron Trigault was standing on the threshold . 
His emotion , as is almost always the case with corpulent people , was evinced by a frightful distortion of his features . 
His face was transformed , his lips had become perfectly white , and his eyes seemed to be starting from their sockets . 
How came you here ? he asked , in a husky voice . 
Your servants ushered me into this room . 
Who are you ? What ! monsieur , don't you recognize me ? rejoined Pascal , who in his agitation forgot that the baron had seen him only twice before . 
He forgot the absence of his beard , his almost ragged clothing , and all the precautions he had taken to render recognition impossible . 
I have never met any person named Maumejan , said the baron . 
Ah ! monsieur , that's not my name . 
And then recollecting the terrible scene that had just taken place in the adjoining room How long have you been here ? he asked . 
Should Pascal tell a falsehood , or confess the truth ? He hesitated , but his hesitation lasted scarcely the tenth part of a second . 
I have been here about half an hour , he replied . 
But it was a mere flash of energy . 
The baron sank on to the divan . 
So the knowledge of my disgrace is no longer confined to myself ! he exclaimed . 
Before I recross the threshold of your home , all shall have been forgotten . 
You will not laugh at my misfortunes or my misery ! He must have been suffering frightfully , for big tears rolled slowly down his cheeks . 
What have I done , my God ! that I should be so cruelly punished ? he continued . 
I have always been generous and charitable , and ready to help all who applied to me . 
I am utterly alone ! I have a wife and a daughter but they hate me . 
They long for my death , which would give them possession of my wealth . 
What torture ! For months together I dared not eat a morsel of food , either in my own house , or in the house of my son in law . 
I feared poison and I never partook of a dish until I had seen my daughter or my wife do so . 
To prevent a crime , I was obliged to resort to the strangest expedients . 
I made a will , and left my property in such a way that if I die , my family will not receive one penny . 
So , they now have an interest in prolonging my life . 
As he spoke he sprang up with an almost frenzied air , and , seizing Pascal by the arm , again continued . 
Nor is this all ! This woman my wife you know you have heard the extent of her shame and degradation . 
Ah , well ! I love her ! Pascal recoiled with an exclamation of mingled horror and consternation . 
This amazes you , eh ? rejoined the baron . 
It is indeed incomprehensible , monstrous but it is the truth . 
It is to gratify her desire for luxury that I have toiled to amass millions . 
If I purchased a title , which is absurd and ridiculous , it was only because I wished to satisfy her vanity . 
Do what she may , I can only see in her the chaste and beautiful wife of our early married life . 
It is cowardly , absurd , ridiculous I realize it but my love is stronger than my reason or my will . 
I love her madly , passionately I cannot tear her from my heart ! So speaking , he sank sobbing on to the divan again . 
After a little while he succeeded in controlling his emotion , and in a comparatively calm voice he exclaimed But it is useless to distract one's mind with an incurable evil . 
Let us speak of yourself , M. Ferailleur . 
Oh ! yes , I will help you in that to the full extent of my power , exclaimed the baron . 
It was not without many misgivings that Pascal had presented himself at the baron's house , but after what he had heard he felt no further hesitation he could speak with perfect freedom . 
But before striking him , I wish to reach the man whose instrument he was . 
What ! you suppose I don't suppose I am sure that M. de Coralth acted in obedience to the instructions of some other scoundrel whose courage does not equal his meanness . 
Perhaps so ! I think he would shrink from nothing in the way of rascality . 
But who could have employed him in this vile work of dishonoring an honest man ? The Marquis de Valorsay . 
On hearing this name , the baron bounded to his feet . 
Impossible ! he exclaimed absolutely impossible ! M. de Valorsay is incapable of the villainy you ascribe to him . 
What do I say ? he is even above suspicion . 
I have known him for years , and I have never met a more loyal , more honorable , or more courageous man . 
He is one of my few trusted friends we see each other almost every day . 
I am expecting a visit from him even now . 
Still it was he who incited M. de Coralth to do the deed . 
But why ? What could have been his object ? To win a young girl whom I love . 
She loved me , and he saw that I was an obstacle . 
He put me out of the way more surely than if he had murdered me . 
Then why She is the heiress of several millions . 
It was evident that this explanation did not shake Baron Trigault's faith in his friend . 
But the marquis has an income of a hundred and fifty or two hundred thousand francs , said he that is an all sufficient justification . 
With his fortune and his name , he is in a position to choose his wife from among all the heiresses of France . 
The baron called out Come in , and a valet appeared , and informed his master that the Marquis de Valorsay wished to speak with him . 
It was the enemy ! Pascal's features were distorted with rage but he did not stir he did not utter a word . 
Ask the marquis into the next room , said the baron . 
I will join him there at once . 
Then as the servant retired , the baron turned to Pascal and said Well , M. Ferailleur , do you divine my intentions ? I think so , monsieur . 
You probably intend me to hear the conversation you are going to have with M. de Valorsay . 
I shall leave the door open , and you can listen . 
This word , listen , was uttered without bitterness , or even reproach and yet Pascal could not help blushing and hanging his head . 
I wish to prove to you that your suspicions are without foundation , pursued the baron . 
Rest assured that I shall prove this conclusively . 
I will conduct the conversation in the form of a cross examination , and after the marquis's departure , you will be obliged to confess that you were wrong . 
Or you , that I am right ? So be it . 
Any one is liable to be mistaken , and I am not obstinate . 
He was about to leave the room , when Pascal detained him . 
Agreed , replied the baron . 
I received your letter this morning , and I was expecting you , but some unexpected business required my attention just now . 
Are you quite well ? As the baron entered the room , the marquis had stepped quickly forward to meet him . 
If he experienced any secret anxiety , it only showed itself in a slightly increased stiffness of his right leg the limb broken in hunting . 
I ought rather to inquire concerning your own health , he remarked . 
You seem greatly disturbed your cravat is untied . 
And , pointing to the broken china scattered about the floor , he added On seeing this , I asked myself if an accident had not happened . 
The baroness was taken suddenly ill at the breakfast table . 
Her fainting fit startled me a little . 
But it was a mere trifle . 
She has quite recovered already , and you may rely upon her applauding your victory at Vincennes to day . 
She has I don't know how many hundred louis staked upon your horses . 
The marquis's countenance assumed an expression of cordial regret . 
I am very sorry , upon my word ! he exclaimed . 
But I sha'n't take part in the races at Vincennes . 
I have withdrawn my horses . 
And , in future , I shall have nothing to do with racing . 
Nonsense ! It is the truth , however . 
I have been led to this determination by the infamous slander which has been circulated respecting me . 
This answer was a mere trifle , but it somewhat shook Baron Trigault's confidence . 
You have been slandered ! he muttered . 
Last Sunday the best horse in my stables , Domingo , came in third . 
He was the favorite in the ring . 
You can understand the rest . 
I have been accused of manoeuvering to have my own horse beaten . 
People have declared that it was my interest he should be beaten , and that I had an understanding with my jockey to that effect . 
The baron's agitation was so great that M. de Valorsay observed it , though he did not understand the cause . 
Living in the same society with the Baroness Trigault , and knowing her story , he thought that Coralth's name might , perhaps , have irritated the baron . 
And so , he quickly continued , don't be surprised if , during the coming week , you see the sale of my horses announced . 
What ! you are going to sell All my horses yes , baron . 
I have nineteen and it will be very strange if I don't get eight or ten thousand louis for the lot . 
Domingo alone is worth more than forty thousand francs . 
To talk of selling of realizing something you possess rings ominously in people's ears . 
The person who talks of selling proclaims his need of money and often his approaching ruin . 
It will save you at least a hundred and fifty or sixty thousand francs a year , observed the baron . 
Double it and you won't come up to the mark . 
Ah ! my dear baron , you have yet to learn that there is nothing so ruinous as a racing stable . 
It's worse than gambling and women , in comparison , are a real economy . 
Ninette costs me less than Domingo , with his jockey , his trainer , and his grooms . 
My manager declares that the twenty three thousand francs I won last year , cost me at least fifty thousand . 
Was he boasting , or was he speaking the truth ? The baron was engaged in a rapid calculation . 
What does Valorsay spend a year ? he was saying to himself . 
All this amounts to something like four hundred and thirty thousand francs a year . 
Does his income equal that sum ? Certainly not . 
Then he must have been living on the principal he is ruined . 
Meanwhile the marquis gayly continued You see , I'm going to make a change in my mode of life . 
Ah ! it surprises you ! But one must make an end of it , sooner or later . 
You ! Yes , I. What , haven't you heard of it , yet ? It has been talked of at the club for three days or more . 
No , this is the first intimation I have received of it . 
It is true , however , that I have not been to the club for three days . 
And so you are to be married , the baron continued , after a slight pause . 
Ah , well ! I know one person who won't be pleased . 
Who , pray ? Ninette Simplon . 
M. de Valorsay laughed heartily . 
As if that would make any difference to me ! he exclaimed . 
And then in a most confidential manner he resumed She will soon be consoled . 
Ninette Simplon is a shrewd girl a girl whom I have always suspected of having an account book in place of a heart . 
I know she has at least three hundred thousand francs safely invested her furniture and diamonds are worth as much more . 
I understand , replied the baron Ninette Simplon won't trouble you . 
How mistaken ? Well , I won't hesitate to confess to you , my dear baron , that the girl I am about to marry hasn't a penny of her own . 
My future wife has no dowry save her black eyes but they are certainly superb ones . 
This assertion seemed to disprove Pascal's statements . 
Can it really be you who are talking in this strain ? cried the baron . 
You , a practical , worldly man , give way to such a burst of sentiment ? Well , yes . 
The baron opened his eyes in astonishment . 
Ah ! then you adore your future bride ! Adore only feebly expresses my feelings . 
Still it doesn't matter I have never been coward enough to hide my feelings . 
I thought myself blase , I boasted of being invulnerable . 
Naturally I tried to reason with myself . 
I was ashamed of my weakness but the more clearly I showed myself my folly , the more obstinate my heart became . 
And perhaps my folly is not such a great one after all . 
Such perfect beauty united with such modesty , grace , and nobility of soul , such passion , candor and talent , cannot be met twice in a lifetime . 
I intend to leave Paris . 
We shall first of all go to Italy , my wife and I. After a while we shall return and install ourselves at Valorsay , like two turtle doves . 
Upon my word , my imagination paints a charming picture of the calm and happy life we shall lead there ! I don't deserve such good fortune . 
The baron was a keen observer , and he had detected a false ring in this apparently vehement outburst of passion . 
I understand it now , my dear marquis , said he you have met the descendant of some illustrious but impoverished family . 
My future bride has no other name than her Christian name of Marguerite . 
It is a regular romance then ! You are quite right it is a romance . 
Were you acquainted with the Count de Chalusse , who died a few days ago ? No but I have often heard him spoken of . 
Well , it is his daughter whom I am about to marry his illegitimate daughter . 
Excuse me , said he M. de Chalusse was immensely rich , and he was a bachelor . 
How does it happen then that his daughter , even though she be his illegitimate child , should find herself penniless ? A mere chance a fatality . 
M. de Chalusse died very suddenly he had no time to make a will or to acknowledge his daughter . 
But why had he not taken some precautions ? A formal recognition of his daughter was attended by too many difficulties , and even dangers . 
It was no longer on Pascal's account , but on his own , that Baron Trigault listened with breathless attention . 
How very strange , he exclaimed , in default of something better to say . 
How very strange ! Isn't it ? It is as good as a novel . 
Would it be indiscreet To inquire ? Certainly not . 
The count told me the whole story , without entering into particulars you understand . 
When he was quite young , M. de Chalusse became enamoured of a charming young lady , whose husband had gone to tempt fortune in America . 
Never attempt to see me again . 
On receiving this letter , M. de Chalusse flung himself into a postchaise , and returned to Paris . 
He was determined , absolutely determined , to have his daughter . 
But he arrived too late . 
On hearing of her husband's return , the young wife had lost her head . 
Still , on being questioned , he managed to answer in a choked voice , but not without a terrible effort Nothing ! It is nothing . 
A mere trifle ! It will be over in a moment . 
It IS over ! Still his limbs trembled so much that he could not stand , and he sank on to a chair , murmuring I entreat you , marquis continue . 
It is very interesting very interesting indeed . 
M. de Valorsay resumed his narrative . 
The husband was incontestably an artless fellow but he was also , it appears , a man of remarkable energy and determination . 
Having somehow ascertained that his wife had given birth to a child in his absence , he moved heaven and earth not only to discover the child , but its father also . 
He had sworn to kill them both and he was a man to keep his vow unmoved by a thought of the guillotine . 
Fortunately , she was very shrewd . 
She soon discovered that her husband knew everything , and she warned M. de Chalusse , thus saving his life . 
It is not at all remarkable that the Marquis de Valorsay should have failed to see any connection between his narrative and the baron's agitation . 
So he continued his story in his customary light , mocking tone . 
Thus the marquis continued I am necessarily compelled to omit many particulars , my dear baron . 
I also know that M. de Chalusse's whole life was haunted by the thought of the husband he had wronged . 
He felt a presentiment that he would die by this man's hand . 
He saw danger on every side . 
I should never have believed in this constant terror on the part of a really brave man , if he had not confessed it to me with his own lips . 
Ten or twelve years passed before he dared to make the slightest attempt to find his daughter , so much did he fear to arouse his enemy's attention . 
It was not until he had discovered that the husband had become discouraged and had discontinued his search , that the count began his . 
It was a long and arduous one , but at last it succeeded , thanks to the assistance of a clever scoundrel named Fortunat . 
The baron with difficulty repressed a movement of eager curiosity , and remarked What a peculiar name ! And his first name is Isidore . 
Ah ! he's a smooth tongued scoundrel , a rascal of the most dangerous kind , who richly deserves to be in jail . 
This name and address were engraved upon the baron's memory , never to be effaced . 
However , resumed M. de Valorsay , the poor count was fated to have no peace . 
The husband had scarcely ceased to torment him , he had scarcely begun to breathe freely , when the wife attacked him in her turn . 
She must have been one of those vile and despicable women who make a man hate the entire sex . 
Pretending that the count had turned her from the path of duty , and destroyed her life and happiness , she lost no opportunity of tormenting him . 
She would not allow M. de Chalusse to keep the child with him , nor would she consent to his adopting the girl . 
She declared it an act of imprudence , which would surely set her husband upon the track , sooner or later . 
The count was a patient man , sneered the baron . 
Not so patient as you may suppose . 
His submission was due to some secret cause which he never confided to me . 
There must have been some great crime under all this . 
In any case , the poor count found it impossible to escape this terrible woman . 
He took refuge at Cannes but she followed him . 
He travelled through Italy , for I don't know how many months under an assumed name , but all in vain . 
He was at last compelled to conceal his daughter in some provincial convent . 
During the last few months of his life he obtained peace that is to say , he bought it . 
The baron sprang to his feet with a passionate exclamation . 
The vile wretch ! he said . 
The baron cast a look of positive anguish at the door of the smoking room . 
He had heard a slight movement there and he trembled with fear lest Pascal , maddened with anger and jealousy , should rush in and throw himself upon the marquis . 
Plainly enough , this perilous situation could not last much longer . 
Upon my word , he exclaimed , with a forced laugh , I was expecting something quite different . 
This affair begins like a genuine romance , and ends , as everything ends nowadays , in money ! IV . 
As a millionaire and a gambler , Baron Trigault enjoyed all sorts of privileges . 
He assumed the right to be brutal , ill bred , cynical and bold to be one of those persons who declare that folks must take them as they find them . 
But his rudeness now was so thoroughly offensive that under any other circumstances the marquis would have resented it . 
However , he had special reasons for preserving his temper , so he decided to laugh . 
Yes , these stories always end in the same way , baron , said he . 
You haven't touched a card this morning , and I know your hands are itching . 
Excuse me for making you waste precious time , as you say but what you have just heard was only a necessary preface . 
Only a preface ? Yes but don't be discouraged . 
I have arrived at the object of my visit now . 
Good heavens ! he thought , Valorsay is going to ask me for money . 
In fact , he felt certain that the marquis's pretended carelessness concealed real embarrassment , and that it was difficult for him to find the words he wanted . 
So I am about to marry , M. de Valorsay resumed I wish to break off my former life , to turn over a new leaf . 
A nice little sum , indeed ! Ah , well ! as I'm not going to wed an heiress , I fear I shall run a trifle short . 
The matter was worrying me a little , when I thought of you . 
I said to myself 'The baron , who always has money at his disposal , will no doubt let me have the use of five thousand louis for a year . 
The baron's eyes were fixed upon his companion's face . 
But the baron had detected it and he realized his applicant's urgent need . 
A moment before , the marquis had allowed his consternation to show itself but this time he knew how to conceal the joy that filled his soul . 
So it was in the most indifferent manner , as if the affair were one of trivial importance , that he thanked the baron for being so obliging . 
Plainly enough , he now longed to make his escape , and indeed , after rattling off a few commonplace remarks . 
he rose to his feet and took his leave , exclaiming Till the day after to morrow , then ! The baron sank into an arm chair , completely overcome . 
The old wounds in his heart opened afresh , and his sufferings were poignant beyond description . 
All his efforts to save this woman whom he at once loved and hated from the depths of degradation , had proved unavailing . 
And she has extorted money from the Count de Chalusse , he thought she sold him the right to adopt their own daughter . 
And so strange are the workings of the human heart , that this circumstance , trivial in comparison with many others , drove the unfortunate baron almost frantic with rage . 
What can she do with it all ? muttered the baron , overcome with sorrow and indignation . 
How can she succeed in spending the income of several millions ? A name , the name of Ferdinand de Coralth , rose to his lips but he did not pronounce it . 
He saw Pascal emerging from the smoking room and though he had forgotten the young advocate's very existence , his appearance now restored him to a consciousness of reality . 
Ah , well ! M. Ferailleur ? he said , like a man suddenly aroused from some terrible nightmare . 
Pascal tried to make some reply , but he was unable to do so such a flood of incoherent thoughts was seething and foaming in his brain . 
Did you hear , M. de Valorsay ? continued the baron . 
Now we know , beyond the possibility of doubt , who Mademoiselle Marguerite's mother is . 
But upon whom can I wreak my vengeance ? Upon the Count de Chalusse ? He is dead . 
Upon my wife ? Yes , I might do so but I lack the courage Mademoiselle Marguerite remains . 
But she is innocent , monsieur she has never wronged you . 
The baron did not seem to hear this exclamation . 
And to make Mademoiselle Marguerite's life one long misery , said he , I need only favor her marriage with the marquis . 
Ah , he would make her cruelly expiate the crime of her birth . 
But you won't do so ! cried Pascal , in a transport , it would be shameful I won't allow it . 
Never , I swear before high Heaven ! never , while I live , shall Valorsay marry Marguerite . 
And , afterward , the law may take its course ! The baron looked at him with deep emotion . 
Ah , you know what it is to love ! he exclaimed and in a hollow voice , he added and thus it was that I loved Marguerite's mother . 
The breakfast table had not been cleared , and a large decanter of water was still standing on it . 
The baron poured out two large glasses , which he drained with feverish avidity , and then he began to walk aimlessly about the room . 
It seemed to him that his own destiny was being decided in this man's mind , that his whole future depended upon the determination he arrived at . 
A prisoner awaiting the verdict of the jury could not have suffered more intense anxiety . 
At last , when a minute , which seemed a century , had elapsed , the baron paused . 
Now as before , M. Ferailleur , he said , roughly , I'm for you and with you . 
Give me your hand that's right . 
Honest people ought to protect and assist one another when scoundrels assail them . 
We will reinstate you in public esteem , monsieur . 
We will unmask Coralth , and we will crush Valorsay if we find that he is really the instigator of the infamous plot that ruined you . 
What , monsieur ! Can you doubt it after your conversation with him ? The baron shook his head . 
I've no doubt but what Valorsay is ruined financially , said he . 
I am certain that my hundred thousand francs will be lost forever if I lend them to him . 
I would be willing to swear that he bet against his own horse and prevented the animal from winning , as he is accused of doing . 
You must see , then Excuse me all this does NOT explain the great discrepancy between your allegations and his story . 
You assure me that he cares nothing whatever for Mademoiselle Marguerite he pretends that he adores her . 
Yes , monsieur , yes the scoundrel dared to say so . 
Ah ! if I had not been deterred by a fear of losing my revenge ! I understand but allow me to conclude . 
According to you , Mademoiselle Marguerite possesses several millions . 
According to him , she hasn't a penny of her own . 
Which is right ? I believe he is . 
Still , if he is telling the truth , it is impossible to explain the foul conspiracy you have suffered by . 
This objection had previously presented itself to Pascal's mind , and he had found an explanation which seemed to him a plausible one . 
M. de Chalusse was not dead , said he , when M. de Coralth and M. de Valorsay decided on this plan of ridding themselves of me . 
Consequently , Mademoiselle Marguerite was still an heiress . 
There must be some iniquitous mystery in this affair , which neither you nor I suspect , remarked the baron . 
That is exactly what my mother told me . 
Ah ! that's Madame Ferailleur's opinion ? Then it is a good one . 
Come , let us reason a little . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite loved you , you say ? Yes . 
The baron sprang to his feet . 
Stop , he cried stop ! We now have a clue to the truth , perhaps . 
Can you reconcile these two versions of the affair , M. Ferailleur ? Certainly not . 
Then which version is false ? We must ascertain that point . 
When shall you see Mademoiselle Marguerite again ? She has requested me NEVER to try to see her again . 
Very well ! She must be disobeyed . 
You must discover some way of seeing her without anyone's knowledge . 
She is undoubtedly watched , so don't write on any account . 
Two scoundrels who league to ruin an honest man don't sign a contract to that effect before a notary . 
Proofs ! Ah ! where shall we find them ? We must gain an intimate knowledge of Valorsay's private life . 
The best plan would be to find some man devoted to our interests who would watch him , and insinuate himself into his confidence . 
Pascal interrupted the baron with an eager gesture . 
Hope glittered in his eyes . 
I will be the man , monsieur , if you will allow me . 
The thought occurred to me just now while I was listening to you . 
You promised to send some one to Valorsay's house with money . 
I entreat you to allow me to take the place of the man you intended to send . 
The marquis doesn't know me , and I am sufficiently sure of myself to promise you that I will not betray my identity . 
I will present myself as your agent he will give me his confidence . 
I shall take him money or fair promises , I shall be well received , and I have a plan He was interrupted by a rap at the door . 
The next moment a footman entered , and informed his master that a messenger wished to speak to him on urgent business . 
Let him come in , said the baron . 
It was Job , Madame Lia d'Argeles's confidential servant , who entered the room . 
He bowed respectfully , and , with an air of profound mystery exclaimed I have been looking for the baron everywhere . 
I was ordered by madame not to return without him . 
Very well , said M. Trigault . 
I will go with you at once . 
V. How was it that a clever man like M. Fortunat made such a blunder as to choose a Sunday , and a racing Sunday too , to call on M. Wilkie . 
His anxiety might explain the mistake , but it did not justify it . 
He felt certain , that under any other circumstances he would not have been dismissed so cavalierly . 
He would at least have been allowed to develop his proposals , and then who knows what might have happened ? But the races had interfered with his plans . 
These were sacred duties , since Wilkie's share in a race horse constituted his only claim to a footing in fashionable society . 
Wilkie really imagined that folks were waiting for him at Vincennes and that the fete would not be complete without his presence . 
An astonishing bit of news had imparted unusual excitement to the ring . 
If the marquis had hoped that by adopting this course he would silence the suspicions which had been aroused , he was doomed to grievous disappointment . 
Large sums had been staked on Domingo's success . 
He had been the favorite in the betting ring and the losers were by no means pleased . 
Some declared that they had seen the jockey hold Domingo back and they insisted that it was necessary to make an example , and disqualify both the marquis and his jockey . 
Still one weighty circumstance pleaded in M. de Valorsay's favor his fortune , or , at least , the fortune he was supposed to possess . 
Why should such a rich man stoop to cheat ? asked his defenders . 
To put money into one's pocket in this way is even worse than to cheat at cards ! Besides , it's impossible ! Valorsay is above such contemptible charges . 
He is a perfect gentleman . 
Perhaps so , replied the skeptical bystanders . 
But people said exactly the same of Croisenois , of the Duc de H. , and Baron P. , who were finally convicted of the same rascality that Valorsay is accused of . 
It's an infamous slander ! If he had been inclined to cheat , he could have easily diverted suspicion . 
He would have let Domingo come in second , not third ! If he were not guilty , and afraid of detection , he wouldn't pay forfeit to day nor sell his horses . 
He only retires from the turf because he's going to marry Nonsense ! That's no reason whatever . 
Like all gamblers , the frequenters of the turf are distrustful and inclined to be quarrelsome . 
No one is above their suspicions when they lose nor above their wrath when they are duped . 
Naturally enough , M. Wilkie sided with the marquis , whom he had heard his friend , M. de Coralth , speak of on several occasions . 
Accuse the dear marquis ! he exclaimed . 
In addition , he regularly sold Pompier's oats in order to obtain liquor , and in fact the poor animal was so nearly starved that he could scarcely stand on his legs . 
The jockey ascribed the horse's extreme thinness to a system of rigorous training and the owners did not question the statement in the least . 
In point of fact , this jockey would have been the happiest mortal in the world if such things as steeple chases had never existed . 
But how could he refuse , since he knew that if these young men hired him , it was chiefly , or only in view of , displaying themselves in his company . 
It afforded them untold satisfaction to walk to and fro along the course in front of the grand stand , with their jockey in his orange jacket with green sleeves . 
They were firmly convinced that he reflected enormous credit upon them , and their hearts swelled with joy at the thought of the envy they no doubt inspired . 
This conviction gave rise indeed to terrible quarrels , in which each of the three owners was wont to accuse the others of monopolizing the jockey . 
On this occasion , M. Wilkie being fortunate enough to arrive the first immediately repaired to Pompier de Nanterre's stall . 
Never had circumstances been more favorable for a display of the animal's speed . 
The day was magnificent the stands were crowded , and thousands of eager spectators were pushing and jostling one another beyond the ropes which limited the course . 
And how great his delight was when , as he passed through the crowd , he heard people exclaim That gentleman has a racing stable . 
His partners arrived , and claimed the jockey in their turn . 
This afforded him another opportunity of attracting public attention , and to giving proofs of his form , for he had not filled the box of his carriage with champagne for nothing . 
At last the decisive moment came , and he made himself conspicuous by shouting . 
What a disaster , my friends , he exclaimed . 
However , his defeat did not affect him very deeply . 
It was forgotten at thought of the inheritance which his friend Coralth had spoken to him about . 
And to morrow M. de Coralth would tell him the secret . 
He had only twenty hours longer to wait ! To morrow ! to morrow ! he said to himself again and again , with a thrill of mingled joy and impatience . 
Such was not the case , however . 
From that moment the conquest was assured for M. de Coralth possessed in an eminent degree all the attributes that were likely to dazzle and charm the gifted owner of Pompier de Nanterre . 
First of all , there was his title , then his impudent assurance and his apparent wealth , and last , but by no means least , his numerous and fashionable acquaintances . 
He was not long in discovering his advantage , and in profiting by it . 
And without giving M. Wilkie an inkling of the truth , he succeeded in obtaining from him as accurate a knowledge of his past career as the young fellow himself possessed . 
M. Wilkie did not know much concerning his origin or his early life and his history , so far as he was acquainted with it , could be told in a few words . 
His earliest recollection was of the ocean . 
He was sure , perfectly sure , that he had made a very long sea voyage when only a little child , and he looked upon America as his birthplace . 
The French language was certainly not the first he had learned , for he still remembered a limited number of English phrases . 
The English word father was among those that lingered in his memory and now , after a lapse of twenty years , he pronounced it without the least foreign accent . 
But while he remembered the word perfectly well , no recollection remained to him of the person he had called by that name . 
His first sensations were those of hunger , weariness , and cold . 
He recollected , and very distinctly too , how on one long winter night , a woman had dragged him after her through the streets of Paris , in an icy rain . 
He could still see himself as he wandered on , crying with weariness , and begging for something to eat . 
A vague portrait of this woman , who was most probably his mother , still lingered in his memory . 
According to his description , she was extremely handsome , tall , and very fair . 
He had been particularly impressed with the pale tint and profusion of her beautiful hair . 
Their poverty had not lasted long . 
He remembered being installed with his mother in a very handsome suite of rooms . 
A man , who was still young , and whom he called Monsieur Jacques , came every day , and brought him sweetmeats and playthings . 
He thought he must have been about four years old at that time . 
However , he had enjoyed this comfortable state of things scarcely a month , when one morning a stranger presented himself . 
The visitor held a long conference with his mother , or , at least , with the person whom he called by that name . 
He did not understand what they were talking about , but he was none the less very uneasy . 
The result of the interview must have justified his instinctive fear , for his mother took him on her lap , and embraced him with convulsive tenderness . 
It seemed to him he could still hear that despairing farewell . 
For it was indeed a farewell . 
The stranger took him in his arms and carried him away , in spite of his cries and struggles to escape . 
This person to whose care he was confined was the master of a small boarding school , and his wife was the kindest and most patient of women . 
However , this did not prevent Wilkie from crying and begging for his mother at first but gradually he forgot her . 
But this charming life could not last for ever . 
As he did not study , and as he was only endowed with a small amount of intelligence , he learned scarcely anything during the years he remained there . 
And if Wilkie complained of this constant watchfulness , M. Patterson always replied , I must obey orders and this answer invariably put an end to the discussion . 
So things went on until it became time for Wilkie to take his degree . 
He presented himself for examination and , of course , he failed . 
Fortunately , however , M. Patterson was not at a loss for an expedient . 
You are now in your own home , M. Wilkie , said M. Patterson in his most impressive manner . 
You are now old enough to be responsible for your own actions , and I hope you will conduct yourself like an honest man . 
From this moment you are your own master . 
Those who gave you your education desire you to study law . 
If I were in your place , I should obey them . 
If you wish to be somebody , and to acquire a fortune , work , for you have no property , nor anything to expect from any one . 
The allowance which is granted you , a far too liberal one in my opinion , may be cut off at any moment . 
I don't think it right to conceal this fact from you . 
But at all events until then . 
I am instructed to pay you five thousand francs quarterly . 
Here is the amount for the first quarter , and in three months' time I shall send you a similar amount . 
I say 'shall SEND , because my business compels me to return to England , and take up my abode there . 
Here is my London address and if any serious trouble befalls you , write to me . 
Now , my duty being fulfilled , farewell . 
None of M. Patterson's wise advice lingered in the young fellow's mind . 
To use a familiar expression , It went in through one ear and came out through the other . 
Only two facts had made an impression upon him that he was to be his own master henceforth , and that he had a fortune at his command . 
There it lay upon the table , five thousand francs in glittering gold . 
Countless details revealed the delicate taste of a woman , and the thoughtful tenderness of a mother . 
None of those little superfluities which delight a young man had been forgotten . 
There was a box of choice cigars upon the table , and a jar of tobacco on the mantel shelf . 
But Wilkie did not take time to discover this . 
He had resolved to give a fete in honor of his deliverance , and so he hurried off in search of some of his old college chums . 
It was a remarkable repast . 
Other acquaintances dropped in , the wine flowed in rivers and after dinner they danced . 
This first experiment ought to have disgusted him , or at least have made him reflect . 
He felt quite in his element in the society of dissipated young men and enamelled women . 
He swore that he would win a place in their midst , and an influential place too . 
He had just three hundred francs left . 
Twenty thousand francs a year is what one chooses to make it wealth or poverty . 
How do other people manage ? he wondered . 
Everybody knows them , and they know everybody , but how they exist is a problem which it is impossible to solve . 
What source do they derive their money from ? What vile business are they engaged in ? However , M. Wilkie did not devote much time to solving this question . 
My relatives must wish me to starve , he said to himself . 
Not I I'm not that sort of a person , as I'll soon let them know . 
And thereupon he wrote to M. Patterson . 
By return of post that gentleman sent him a cheque for one thousand francs a mere drop in the bucket . 
M. Wilkie felt indignant and so he wrote again . 
This time he was obliged to wait for a reply . 
Still at last it came . 
M. Patterson sent him two thousand francs , and an interminable epistle full of reproaches . 
The interesting young man threw the letter into the fire , and went out to hire a carriage by the month and a servant . 
From that day forward , his life was spent in demanding money and waiting for it . 
He employed in quick succession every pretext that could soften the hearts of obdurate relatives , or find the way to the most closely guarded cash box . 
He was ill he had contracted a debt of honor he had imprudently lent money to an unscrupulous friend he was about to be arrested for debt . 
He became wise with experience , however and on adding all the sums he had received together , he decided that his family must be very rich to allow him so much money . 
And this thought made him anxious to fathom the mystery of his birth and his infancy . 
He finally persuaded himself that he was the son of a great English nobleman a member of the House of Lords , who was twenty times a millionaire . 
And he more than half believed it when he told his creditors that his lordship , his father , would some day or other come to Paris and pay all his debts . 
Not a penny remains in my possession so that my instructions have been fulfilled . 
Spare yourself the trouble of making any fresh demands they will meet with no reply . 
In future you will not receive a penny above your allowance , which in my opinion is already too large a one for a young man of your age . 
This letter proved a terrible blow to Wilkie . 
What should he do ? He felt that M. Patterson would not revoke his decision and indeed he wrote him several imploring letters , in vain . 
Yet never had his need of money been so urgent . 
He had begun to consider himself ruined . 
He saw himself reduced to dismissing his carriage , to selling his third share of Pompier de Nanterre and losing the esteem of all his witty friends . 
It was not usually an easy task to entice M. Wilkie from his bed , but the name his servant mentioned seemed to have a prodigious effect upon him . 
It would assure my position at once . 
Certainly something must have happened ! This last remark was by no means a proof of any remarkable perspicuity on M. Wilkie's part . 
Although the brilliant viscount had discovered Madame d'Argeles's secret , several months previously , he had so far disclosed it to no one . 
It was certainly not from any delicacy of feeling that he had held his peace but only because it had not been for his interest to speak . 
Now , however , the sudden death of the Count de Chalusse changed the situation . 
The devil ! he exclaimed . 
Let me think a moment . 
Madame d'Argeles is the heiress of all these millions will she come forward and claim them ? From what I know of her , I am inclined to think that she won't . 
She is so ridiculously antiquated in her notions . 
And then he began to study what advantages he might derive from his knowledge of the situation . 
M. de Coralth , like all persons whose present is more or less uncertain , had great misgivings concerning his future . 
The slightest indiscretion , the least blunder , might hurl him from his splendor into the mire . 
The perspiration started out on his forehead when he thought of his peril . 
And it was this desire which inspired him with the same plan that M. Fortunat had formed . 
Why shouldn't I inform Wilkie ? he said to himself . 
If I present him with a fortune , the simpleton ought certainly to give me some reward . 
But to carry this plan into execution it would be necessary to brave Madame d'Argeles's anger and that was attended by no little danger . 
If he knew something about her , she on her side knew everything connected with his past life . 
She had only to speak to ruin him forever . 
And his matutinal visit to M. Wilkie was caused by a fear that he might not be the only person knowing the truth , and that some one else might forestall him . 
You here , at sunrise , my friend ! exclaimed Wilkie , as he entered the room where the viscount was seated . 
What has happened ? To me ? nothing , replied the viscount . 
It was solely on your account that I deviated from my usual habits . 
What is it ? You frighten me . 
Oh ! don't be alarmed . 
Never in all my life have I spoken more seriously , insisted the viscount . 
His companion at first made no reply . 
Come , my friend , he said at last , do you want to poke fun at me ? That wouldn't be polite . 
A debtor is always sacred , and I owe you twenty five louis . 
This is scarcely the time to talk of millions . 
My relatives have cut off my supplies and my creditors are overwhelming me with their bills But M. de Coralth checked him , saying gravely Upon my honor , I am not jesting . 
What would you give a man who I would give him half of the fortune he gave me . 
That's too much ! No , no ! He was in earnest , certainly . 
It is afterward , when the day of settlement comes , that people begin to find fault with the rate of interest . 
If I tell you that one half is too much , it is because such is really the case . 
And I am the best judge of the matter , since I am the man who can put you in possession of this enormous fortune . 
M. Wilkie started back in speechless amazement . 
In the afternoon , when I am in a restaurant , at the club , or in a lady's boudoir , I am merely the viscount and the grand seigneur . 
All money questions sicken me . 
I am careless , liberal , and obliging to a fault . 
M. Wilkie did not allow him to continue . 
He believed , and his joy was wild delirious . 
Enough , enough ! he interrupted . 
It is not fitting that I should fix upon the indemnity which is due to me . 
I will consult a man of business and I will decide upon this point on the day after to morrow , when I shall explain everything to you . 
On the day after to morrow ! You won't leave me in suspense for forty eight hours ? It is unavoidable . 
I have still some important information to procure . 
I lost no time in coming to you , so that I might put you on your guard . 
If any scoundrel comes to you with proposals , be extremely careful . 
Some agents , when they obtain a hold on an estate , leave nothing for the rightful owner . 
So don't treat with any one . 
Oh , no ! You may rest assured I won't . 
I should be quieter in mind if I had your promise in writing . 
The viscount read the document , placed it in his pocket , and then said , as he took up his hat Very well . 
I will see you again on Monday . 
But M. Wilkie's doubts were beginning to return . 
Monday , so be it ! said he but swear that you are not deceiving me . 
What , do you still doubt me ? M. Wilkie reflected for a moment and suddenly a brilliant inspiration darted through his brain . 
If you are speaking the truth , I shall soon be rich , said he . 
But , in the meantime , life is hard . 
I haven't a penny , and it isn't a pleasant situation . 
I have a horse entered for the race to morrow , Pompier de Nanterre . 
You know the animal very well . 
The chances are enormously in his favor . 
So , if it wouldn't inconvenience you to lend me fifty louis Certainly , interrupted the viscount , cordially . 
Certainly with the greatest pleasure . 
He knew Wilkie perfectly well , and felt that it was dangerous to let him roam about Paris with half of an important secret . 
Postponement generally furnishes fate with weapons against oneself . 
But it was impossible for the viscount to act otherwise . 
At the least suspicion of treason , M. de Valorsay would close his hand , and he , Coralth , would be crushed like an egg shell . 
M. de Valorsay's astonishment must have been intense when he heard that Lia d'Argeles was a Chalusse , but he knew how to maintain his composure . 
How can you think I don't think , I'm sure of it . 
As long as I was strong support for you , you were devoted to me . 
But now I am tottering , and you are ready to betray me . 
Excuse me ! The step I am about to take What , haven't you taken it already ? interrupted the marquis , quickly . 
And shrugging his shoulders , he added Observe that I don't reproach you in the least . 
Only remember this we survive or we perish together . 
Yes , Madame d'Argeles must lay claim to the count's estate . 
If she hesitates , her son will compel her to urge her claims , will he not ? Oh , you may rest assured of that . 
And when he becomes rich , will you be able to retain your influence over him ? Rich or poor , I can mould him like wax . 
Marguerite was escaping me , but I shall soon have her in my power . 
The Fondeges think they can outwit me , but we shall soon see about that . 
Let us part friends au revoir and , above all , keep me well posted about matters in general . 
M. de Coralth's temper was already somewhat ruffled when he entered Valorsay's house and he was in a furious passion when he left it . 
So we are to survive or perish together , he growled . 
Thanks for the preference you display for my society . 
Is it my fault that the fool has squandered his fortune ? I fancy I've had enough of his threats and airs . 
Still his wrath was not so violent as to make him forget his own interests . 
He at once went to inquire if the agreement which M. Wilkie had just signed would be binding . 
It was not yet noon , and the viscount determined to act upon the suggestion at once he now bitterly regretted the delay he had specified . 
I must find Wilkie at once , he said to himself . 
What a brute ! thought the enraged viscount . 
If I leave him to himself , no one knows what foolish thing he may do or say . 
I must remain with him until he becomes sober again . 
The scene which followed greatly alarmed the viscount . 
He could not believe it . 
Then why was the fellow there ? Evidently to watch somebody . 
And whom ? Why , him Coralth undoubtedly . 
Thus it was not strange if some one had set a snare for him it was rather a miracle that he had not fallen into one before . 
The dangers that threatened him were so formidable that he was almost tempted to relinquish his attack on Madame d'Argeles . 
Was it prudent to incur the risk of making this woman an enemy ? All Sunday he hesitated . 
It would be very easy to get out of the scrape . 
He could concoct some story for Wilkie's benefit , and that would be the end of it . 
But on the other hand , there was the prospect of netting at least five hundred thousand francs a fortune a competency , and the idea was too tempting to be relinquished . 
So on Monday morning , at about ten o'clock , he presented himself at Wilkie's house , looking pale with anxiety , and far more solemn in manner than usual . 
Let us say but little , and that to the point , he remarked on entering . 
The secret I am about to reveal to you will make you rich but it might ruin me if it were known that you obtained this information through me . 
You will therefore swear , upon your honor as a gentleman , never to betray me , under any circumstances , or for any reason . 
M. Wilkie extended his hand and solemnly exclaimed I swear ! Very well , then . 
Now my mind is at rest . 
It is scarcely necessary for me to add that if you break your faith you are a dead man . 
You know how I handle a sword and don't forget it . 
His manner was so threatening that Wilkie shuddered . 
You will certainly be questioned , continued M. de Coralth but you must reply that you received the information through one of Mr. Patterson's friends . 
Now let us sign our formal contract in lieu of the temporary one you gave me the other day . 
It is needless to say that Wilkie signed it eagerly . 
He leaves , I am informed , at least eight or ten millions of property . 
I knew that I belonged to a noble family , he began . 
The Count de Chalusse my uncle ! I shall have a coronet on the corner of my visiting cards . 
But with a gesture M. de Coralth silenced him . 
Wait a little before you rejoice , said he . 
Yes , your mother is the sister of the Count de Chalusse , and it is through her that you are an heir to the estate . 
Go on , insisted M. Wilkie . 
Well when your mother was a young girl , about twenty , she fled from her paternal home with a man she loved . 
Forsaken afterward , she found herself in the depths of poverty . 
She was obliged to live . 
So she changed her name , and now she is known as Lia d'Argeles . 
M. Wilkie sprang to his feet . 
Lia d'Argeles ! he exclaimed . 
Then , with a burst of laughter , he added Nevertheless , I think it a piece of grand good luck ! VI . 
This man carries away your secret you are lost . 
A sinister voice whispered these words in Madame Lia d'Argeles's heart when M. Isidore Fortunat , after being rudely dismissed , closed the door of her drawing room behind him . 
This man had addressed her by the ancient and illustrious name of Chalusse which she had not heard for twenty years , and which she had forbidden her own lips to pronounce . 
This man knew that she , Lia d'Argeles , was really a Durtal de Chalusse . 
This frightful certainty overwhelmed her . 
It is true this man Fortunat had declared that his visit was entirely disinterested . 
However , Madame d'Argeles's experience in life had left her but limited faith in apparent or pretended disinterestedness . 
This is a practical age chivalrous sentiments are expensive as she had learned conclusively . 
If the man came here , she murmured , it was only because he thought he might derive some benefit from the prosecution of my claim to my poor brother's estate . 
In refusing to listen to his entreaties , I have deprived him of this expected profit and so I have made him my enemy . 
Ah ! I was foolish to send him away like that ! I ought to have pretended to listen I ought to have bound him by all sorts of promises . 
They rushed out in pursuit , and she remained in the courtyard , her heart heavy with anxiety . 
Too late ! About a quarter of an hour afterward her emissaries returned . 
They had made all possible haste in contrary directions , but they had seen no one in the street who at all resembled the person they were looking for . 
They had questioned the shopkeepers , but no one had seen him pass . 
It doesn't matter , faltered Madame d'Argeles , in a tone that belied her words . 
And , anxious to escape the evident curiosity of her servants , she hastened back to the little boudoir where she usually spent her mornings . 
M. Fortunat had left his card that is to say , his address and it would have been an easy matter to send a servant to his house . 
She was strongly tempted to do so but she ultimately decided that it would be better to wait that an hour more or less would make but little difference . 
She had sent her trusty servant , Job , for Baron Trigault he would probably return with the baron at any moment and the baron would advise her . 
He would know at once what was the best course for her to pursue . 
He had set a trap for her , and she had allowed herself to be caught . 
Perhaps he had only suspected the truth when he presented himself at the house . 
He had suddenly announced the death of the Count de Chalusse she had betrayed herself and any doubts he might have entertained were dispelled . 
If I had only had sufficient presence of mind to deny it , she murmured . 
If I had only been courageous enough to reply that I knew absolutely nothing about the person he spoke of . 
Ah ! then he would have gone away convinced that he was mistaken . 
But would the smooth spoken visitor have declared that he knew everything , if he had not really penetrated the mystery of her life ? It was scarcely probable . 
He had implored her to accept the property , if not for her own sake at least for the sake of another . 
And when she asked him whom he meant he had answered , Mademoiselle Marguerite , but he was undoubtedly thinking of Wilkie . 
So this man , this Isidore Fortunat , knew that she had a son . 
Perhaps he was even acquainted with him personally . 
In his anger he would very likely hasten to Wilkie's rooms and tell him everything . 
This thought filled the wretched woman's heart with despair . 
What ! Had she not yet expiated her fault ? Must she suffer again ? For the first time a terrible doubt came over her . 
What she had formerly regarded as a most sublime effort of maternal love , was , perhaps , even a greater crime than the first she had committed . 
She had given her honor as the price of her son's happiness and prosperity . 
He would have naught but hatred and scorn to bestow upon a mother who had fallen from the highest rank in society down to everlasting infamy . 
You ought to have made me a laborer , and not a spoiled idler , incapable of earning an honest livelihood . 
As the son of a poor , betrayed , and deserted woman , with whom I could have shared my scanty earnings , I might have looked the world proudly in the face . 
What was the meaning of this delay ? Had he failed to find the baron ? At last the sound of carriage wheels in the courtyard made her start . 
That's Job ! she said to herself . 
And yet the honest fellow had spared neither pains nor horseflesh . 
He had visited every place where there was the least probability of finding the baron , and he was everywhere told that Baron Trigault had not been seen for several days . 
In that case , you ought to have gone to his house . 
Perhaps he is there , remarked Madame d'Argeles . 
Madame knows that the baron is never at home . 
I did go there , however , but in vain . 
This chanced to be one of three consecutive days which Baron Trigault had spent with Kami Bey , the Turkish ambassador . 
They ate and slept there . 
According to the latest accounts , the baron had the advantage he had won about two hundred and eighty thousand francs . 
I only returned to inform madame that I had so far been unsuccessful , said Job . 
But I will recommence the search at once . 
That is unnecessary , replied Madame d'Argeles . 
The baron will undoubtedly drop in this evening , after dinner , as usual . 
She said this , and tried her best to believe it but in her secret heart she felt that she could no longer depend upon the baron's assistance . 
I wounded him this morning , she thought . 
He went away more angry than I had ever seen him before . 
However , at two o'clock in the morning the baron had not made his appearance . 
It is too late he won't come ! she murmured . 
But now her sufferings were less intolerable , for excess of wretchedness had deadened her sensibility . 
Utter prostration paralyzed her energies and benumbed her mind . 
She tottered to her room , flung herself on the bed , and instantly fell asleep . 
Yes , she slept the heavy , leaden slumber which always follows a great mental crisis , and which falls like God's blessing upon a tortured mind . 
On waking up , her first act was to ring for her maid , in order to send a message to Job , to go out again in search of the baron . 
But the faithful servant had divined his mistress's wishes , and had already started off of his own accord . 
It was past mid day when he returned , but his face was radiant and it was in a triumphant voice that he announced Monsieur le Baron Trigault . 
Madame d'Argeles sprang up , and greeted the baron with a joyful exclamation . 
Ah ! how kind of you to come ! she exclaimed . 
If you knew how anxiously I have been waiting for you ! He made no reply . 
So her cup of sorrow was not yet full . 
A new misfortune was about to fall upon her . 
She had hoped that the baron would be able to alleviate her wretchedness , but it seemed as if he were fated to increase it . 
Why do you look at me like that ? she asked , anxiously . 
What have I done ? You , my poor Lia nothing ! Then what is it ? Oh , my God ! you frighten me . 
What is it ? Well , I am going to tell you , he said , as he stepped forward and took her hand in his own . 
You have heard my vows of vengeance if I ever succeeded in discovering him . 
Ah , well , Lia , I have discovered him . 
The man who stole my share of earthly happiness was the Count de Chalusse , your brother . 
With a sudden gesture Madame d'Argeles freed her hand from the baron's grasp , and recoiled as terrified as if she had seen a spectre rise up before her . 
Then with her hands extended as if to ward off the horrible apparition , she exclaimed O , my God ! A bitter smile curved the baron's lips . 
What do you fear ? he asked . 
Isn't your brother dead ? He has defrauded me alike of happiness and vengeance ! If her son's life had depended on a single word , Madame d'Argeles could not have uttered it . 
Nor is this all , he continued . 
As I have often told you , I was sure that my wife became a mother in my absence . 
I sought the child for years , hoping that through the offspring I might discover the father . 
Ah , well ! I've found what I sought , at last . 
The child is now a beautiful young girl . 
She lives at the Hotel de Chalusse as your brother's daughter . 
She is known as Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Madame d'Argeles listened , leaning against the wall for support , and trembling like a leaf . 
The horror of the truth exceeded her most frightful apprehensions . 
The strangeness of the reality surpassed every flight of fancy . 
And , moreover , the baron's calmness increased her stupor . 
She so often had heard him give vent to his rage and despair in terrible threats , that she could not believe he would be thus resigned . 
The count is dead , but I can still return him disgrace for disgrace . 
What prevents me from casting ineffaceable opprobrium upon the great name of Chalusse , of which he was so proud ? He seduced my wife . 
To day I can tell all Paris what his sister has been and what she is to day . 
Ah ! it was this yes , it was this that Madame d'Argeles had dreaded . 
It was I ! He looked at her for a moment with a softer expression , tears came to his eyes , and rolled down his cheeks . 
Then suddenly he raised her , and placed her in an arm chair , exclaiming Ah ! you know very well that I shall not do what I said . 
Besides , he added , I had already pardoned before coming here . 
It was foolish on my part , perhaps , and for nothing in the world would I confess it to my acquaintances , but it is none the less true . 
I shall have my revenge in a certain fashion , however . 
I need only hold my peace , and the daughter of M. de Chalusse and Madame Trigault would become a lost woman . 
Is this not so ? Very well , I shall offer her my assistance . 
It may , or may not , be another absurd and ridiculous fancy added to the many I have been guilty of . 
Then perhaps we are saved ! she exclaimed . 
Pascal Ferailleur ? Yes , he is innocent . 
The Viscount de Coralth is a scoundrel . 
It was he who slipped the cards which made M. Ferailleur win , into the pack , and he did it at the Marquis de Valorsay's instigation . 
The baron looked at Madame d'Argeles with pro found amazement . 
She hung her head , and in a scarcely audible voice replied I was not free . 
I submitted to a will that was stronger than my own . 
If you had heard M. de Coralth's threats you would not censure me so severely . 
He has discovered my secret he knows Wilkie I am in his power . 
Don't frown I make no attempt to excuse myself I am only explaining the position in which I was placed . 
And if he did not , at first , understand the motives , he at least began to discern what means had been employed . 
He now understood why Valorsay persisted in his plan of marrying Mademoiselle Marguerite , even without a fortune . 
At that same moment Madame d'Argeles finished her narrative . 
And now , what shall I do ? she added . 
The baron was stroking his chin , as was his usual habit when his mind was deeply exercised . 
The first thing to be done , he replied , is to show Coralth in his real colors , and prove M. Ferailleur's innocence . 
It will probably cost me a hundred thousand francs to do so , but I shall not grudge the money . 
But M. de Coralth will speak out as soon as he finds that I have revealed his shameful past . 
Then the name of Chalusse will be disgraced , said she and Wilkie will know who his mother is . 
No. But Ah ! allow me to finish , my dear friend . 
I have my plan , and it is as plain as daylight . 
This evening you will write to your London correspondent . 
Request M. Patterson to summon your son to England , under any pretext whatever let him pretend that he wishes to give him some money , for instance . 
He will go there , of course , and then we will keep him there . 
Coralth certainly won't run after him , and we shall have nothing more to fear on that score . 
Great heavens ! murmured Madame d'Argeles , why did this idea never occur to me ? The baron had now completely recovered his composure . 
As regards yourself , said he , the plan you ought to adopt is still more simple . 
What is your furniture worth ? About a hundred thousand francs , isn't it ? Very well , then . 
You will sign me notes , dated some time back , to the amount of a hundred thousand francs . 
On the day these notes fall due , on Monday , for instance , they will be presented for payment . 
You will refuse to pay them . 
A writ will be served , and an attachment placed upon your furniture but you will offer no resistance . 
I don't know if I explain my meaning very clearly . 
Oh , very clearly ! So your property is seized . 
You can imagine the sensation this announcement will create . 
'Not at all she's really ruined . 
Everything is mortgaged above its value . 
'Indeed , I'm very sorry to hear it . 
She was a good creature . 
'Oh , excellent a deal of amusement could be found at her house , only between you and me 'Well ? 'Well , she was no longer young . 
However , I shall attend the sale , and I think I shall bid . 
Overcome with shame , Madame d'Argeles hung her head . 
She had never before so keenly felt the disgrace of her situation . 
She had never so clearly realized what a deep abyss she had fallen into . 
And this crushing humiliation came from whom ? From the only friend she possessed from the man who was her only hope , Baron Trigault . 
And what made it all the more frightful was , that he did not seem to be in the least degree conscious of the cruelty of his words . 
They will come to see how a notorious woman lives , and to ascertain if there are any good bargains to be had . 
This is the right form . 
These great ladies would be delighted to display diamonds purchased at the sale of a woman of the demi monde . 
Then the papers will take up the refrain they will give an account of your financial difficulties , and tell the public what you paid for your pictures . 
It was with a sort of terror stricken curiosity that Madame d'Argeles watched the baron . 
It had been many years since she had seen him in such a frame of mind since she had heard him talk in such a cynical fashion . 
I am ready to follow your advice , said she , but afterward ? What , don't you understand the object I have in view ? Afterward you will disappear . 
I know five or six journalists and it would be very strange if I could not convince one of them that you had died upon an hospital pallet . 
It will furnish the subject of a touching , and what is better , a moral article . 
The papers will say , 'Another star has disappeared . 
This is the miserable end of all the poor wretches whose passing luxury scandalizes honest women . 
And what will become of me ? A respected woman , Lia . 
You will go to England , install yourself in some pretty cottage near London , and create a new identity for yourself . 
The proceeds of your sale will supply your wants and Wilkie's for more than a year . 
Before that time has elapsed you will have succeeded in accumulating the necessary proofs of your identity , and then you can assert your claims and take possession of your brother's estate . 
Madame d'Argeles sprang to her feet . 
Never never ! she exclaimed , vehemently . 
The baron evidently thought he must have misunderstood her . 
What ! he stammered you will relinquish the millions that are legally yours , to the government ? Yes I am resolved it must be so . 
But this is simply folly . 
I have told you with perfect frankness everything concerning my past life , save this this that I am married , Monsieur le Baron , legally married . 
I am bound by a chain that nothing can break , and my husband is a scoundrel . 
You would be frightened if you knew half the extent of his villainy . 
Oh ! do not shake your head . 
I ought not to be suspected of exaggeration when I speak in this style of a man whom I once loved so devotedly . 
For I loved him , alas ! even to madness loved him so much that I forgot self , family , honor , and all the most sacred duties . 
I loved him so madly that I was willing to follow him , while his hands were still wet with my brother's blood . 
Ah ! chastisement could not fail to come , and it was terrible , like the sin . 
Yes , those were the very words he said to me , with a furious air . 
And then I could measure the depths of the abyss into which I had plunged . 
This man , with whom I had been so infatuated , did not love me at all , he had never loved me . 
It had only been cold calculation on his part . 
He had devoted months to the task of winning my heart , just as he would have devoted them to some business transaction . 
He only saw in me the fortune that I was to inherit . 
Oh ! he didn't conceal it from me . 
'If your parents are not monsters , he was always saying , 'they will finally become reconciled to our marriage . 
They will give you a handsome fortune and we will divide it . 
I will give you back your liberty , and then we can each of us be happy in our own way . 
It was for this reason that he wished to marry me . 
I consented on account of my unborn child . 
My father and mother had died , and he hoped to prevail upon me to claim my share of the paternal fortune . 
As for claiming it himself , he dared not . 
He was a coward , and he was afraid of my brother . 
But I took a solemn oath that he should never have a farthing of the wealth he coveted , and neither threats nor BLOWS could compel me to assert my claim . 
God only knows how much I had suffered from his brutality when I at last succeeded in making my escape with Wilkie . 
He has sought us everywhere for fifteen years , but he has not yet succeeded in finding a trace of us . 
Still he has not ceased to watch my brother . 
I am sure of that , my presentiments never deceive me . 
So , if I followed your advice if I claimed possession of my brother's fortune my husband would instantly appear with our marriage contract in his hands , and demand everything . 
One could scarcely hope to modify her views even by the wisest and most practical advice . 
The baron did not even think of attempting to do so . 
He had known Madame d'Argeles for years he had seen so many proofs of her invincible energy and determination . 
She possessed the distinguishing characteristic of her family in a remarkable degree that proverbial Chalusse obstinacy which Madame Vantrasson had alluded to in her conversation with M. Fortunat . 
She was silent for a moment , and then , in a firm tone she said Still , I will follow your advice in part , baron . 
This evening I will write to M. Patterson and request him to send for Wilkie . 
In less than a fortnight I shall have sold my furniture and disappeared . 
My fortune is not so large as people suppose . 
My son is a man he must learn to earn his own living . 
My banking account is always at your disposal , Lia . 
Thanks , my friend , thanks a thousand times but it will not be necessary for me to accept your kind offer . 
When Wilkie was a child I did not refuse . 
But now I would dig the ground with my own hands , rather than give him a louis that came from you . 
You think me full of contradictions ! Perhaps I am . 
It is certain that I am no longer what I was yesterday . 
This trouble has torn away the bandage that covered my eyes . 
I can see my conduct clearly now , and I condemn it . 
I sinned for my son's sake , more than for my own . 
But I might have rehabilitated myself through him , and now he will perhaps be dishonored through me . 
Her breathing came short and hard , and it was in a choked voice that she continued Wilkie shall work for me and for himself . 
If he is strong , he will save us . 
If he is weak ah , well ! we shall perish . 
But there has been cowardice and shame enough ! It shall never be said that I sacrificed the honor of a noble name and the happiness of my brother's child to my son . 
I see what my duty is , and I shall do it . 
That's no doubt right , said he . 
Only allow me to tell you that all is not lost yet . 
The code has a weapon for every just cause . 
Perhaps there will be a way for you to obtain and hold your fortune independent of your husband . 
Alas ! I made inquiries on the subject years ago , and I was told that it would be impossible . 
Still , you might investigate the matter . 
I have confidence in you . 
I know that you would not advise me rashly but don't delay . 
The worst misfortune would be less intolerable than this suspense . 
I will lose no time . 
M. Ferailleur is a very clever lawyer , I am told . 
And what shall I do about this man Fortunat , who called upon me ? The baron reflected for a moment . 
The safest thing would be to take no action whatever at present , he replied . 
If he has any evil designs , a visit or a letter from you would only hasten them . 
By the way Madame d'Argeles shook her head , it was easy to see that she had very little hope . 
All this will end badly , she murmured . 
The baron shared her opinion , but he did not think it wise or kind to discourage her . 
Nonsense ! he said lightly , luck is going to change it is always changing . 
Then as he heard the clock strike , he sprang from his arm chair in dismay . 
Two o'clock , he exclaimed , and Kami Bey is waiting for me . 
I certainly haven't been wasting time here , but I ought to have been at the Grand Hotel at noon . 
Kami is quite capable of suspecting a man of any knavery . 
These Turks are strange creatures . 
It's true that I am now a winner to the tune of two hundred and eighty thousand francs . 
It was most imprudent on her part to have gone to Wilkie's house on her return . 
She incurred such a risk of awakening suspicion by wandering about near her son's home that she seldom allowed herself that pleasure , but sometimes her anxiety overpowered her reason . 
But though her energy was indomitable , her physical strength was not equal to her will . 
On returning home , she felt so ill that she was obliged to go to bed . 
She shivered with cold , and yet the blood that flowed in her veins seemed to her like molten lead . 
The physician who was summoned declared that her illness was a mere trifle , but prescribed rest and quiet . 
And as he was a very discerning man , he added , not without a malicious smile , that any excess is injurious excess of pleasure as well as any other . 
As it was Sunday , Madame d'Argeles was able to obey the physician , and so she closed her doors against every one , the baron excepted . 
She would then be compelled to open her doors as usual . 
So , at about seven o'clock on Monday evening , although still grievously suffering both in mind and body , she arranged herself to receive her guests . 
There were at least forty persons in the room , and the gambling had become quite animated when the baron entered . 
Madame d'Argeles read in his eyes that he was the bearer of good news . 
Everything is going on well , he whispered , as he shook hands with her . 
I have seen M. Ferailleur I wouldn't give ten sous for Valorsay's and Coralth's chances . 
This intelligence revived Madame d'Argeles's drooping spirits , and she received M. de Coralth with perfect composure when he came to pay his respects to her soon afterward . 
For he had the impudence to come , in order to dispel any suspicions that might have been aroused anent his complicity in the card cheating affair . 
The hostess's calmness amazed him . 
She took it , glanced at it , and uttered so harsh , so terrible , so heart broken a cry , that several of the guests sprang to their feet . 
What is it ? What is it ? they asked . 
She tried to reply , but could not . 
Her lips parted , she opened her mouth , but no sound came forth . 
She turned ghastly white under her rouge , and a wild , unnatural light gleamed in her eyes . 
What is it ? What is the matter with her ? was the astonished query on every side . 
At last , with a terrible effort , she managed to reply , Nothing . 
And then , after clinging for a moment to the mantel shelf , in order to steady herself , she tottered out of the room . 
It was not enough to tell M. Wilkie the secret of his birth . 
He must be taught how to utilize the knowledge . 
That woman d'Argeles , he thought , is as sharp as steel . 
She will deceive this young idiot completely , if I don't warn him . 
So he did warn him and Wilkie was instructed exactly what to do and say , how to answer any questions , and what position to take up according to circumstances . 
Moreover , he was especially enjoined to distrust tears , and not to let himself be put out of countenance by haughty airs . 
Still , this did not prevent M. de Coralth from persisting in his instructions until he was persuaded that he had prepared his pupil for all possible emergencies . 
He then rose to depart . 
That's all , I think , he remarked , with a shade of uneasiness . 
I've traced the plan you must execute it , and keep cool , or the game's lost . 
If it fails , it won't be from any fault of mine , he answered with unmistakable petulance . 
There's no danger of that . 
And understand , that whatever happens , my name is not to be mentioned . 
If there should be any new revelations , I will inform you . 
At the club ? Yes , but don't be uneasy the affair is as good as concluded . 
I hope so , indeed . 
Wilkie gave a sigh of relief as he saw his visitor depart . 
He wished to be alone , so as to brood over the delights that the future had in store for him . 
He was no longer to be limited to a paltry allowance of twenty thousand francs ! No more debts , no more ungratified longings . 
He was troubled by no foolish prejudices , and personally he cared little or nothing for his mother's reputation . 
The prejudices of society must , of course , be considered . 
But nonsense ! society has no prejudices nowadays when millionaires are concerned , and asks no questions respecting their parents . 
Society only requires passports of the indigent . 
Besides , no matter what Madame d'Argeles might have done , she was none the less a Chalusse , the descendant of one of the most aristocratic families in France . 
Such were Wilkie's meditations while he was engaged in dressing himself with more than usual care . 
He had been quite shocked by the suggestion that Madame d'Argeles might try to deny him , and he wished to appear before her in the most advantageous light . 
His toilette was consequently a lengthy operation . 
However , shortly after twelve o'clock he was ready . 
He cast a last admiring glance at himself in the mirror , twirled his mustaches , and departed on his mission . 
He even went on foot , which was a concession to what he considered M. de Coralth's absurd ideas . 
The aspect of the Hotel d'Argeles , in the Rue de Berry , impressed him favorably , but , at the same time , it somewhat disturbed his superb assurance . 
Everything is very stylish here , he muttered . 
A couple of servants the concierge and Job were standing at the door engaged in conversation . 
M. Wilkie approached them , and in his most imposing manner , but not without a slight tremble in his voice , requested to see Madame d'Argeles . 
Madame is in the country , replied the concierge she will not return before this evening . 
If monsieur will leave his card Oh ! that's quite unnecessary . 
I shall be passing again . 
But this first mishap annoyed him extremely . 
What should he do ? how should he kill time till the evening ? A cab was passing . 
He was finishing his coffee when the clock struck eight . 
He caught up his hat , drew on his gloves , and hastened to the Hotel d'Argeles again . 
Madame has not yet returned , said the concierge , who knew that his mistress had only just risen from her bed , but I don't think it will be long . 
Ah ! I think that a very shabby trick ! grumbled the intelligent youth . 
They won't succeed in playing that game on me again . 
Why , she's there now ! It occurred to him that Madame d'Argeles had perhaps described him to her servants , and had given them strict orders not to admit him . 
I'll find out if that is the case , even if I have to wait here until to morrow morning , he thought , angrily . 
However , he had not been on guard very long , when he saw a brougham stop in front of the mansion , whereupon the gate opened , as if by enchantment . 
The vehicle entered the courtyard , deposited its occupants , and drove away . 
A second carriage soon appeared , then a third , and then five or six in quick succession . 
And does she think I'll wear out my shoe leather here , while everybody else is allowed to enter ? he grumbled . 
Never ! I've an idea . 
And , without giving himself time for further deliberation , he returned to his rooms , arrayed himself in evening dress , and sent for his carriage . 
You will drive to No. in the Rue de Berry , he said . 
There is a soiree there , and you can drive directly into the courtyard . 
The coachman obeyed , and M. Wilkie realized that his idea was really an excellent one . 
As soon as he alighted , the doors were thrown open , and he ascended a handsome staircase , heavily carpeted , and adorned with flowers . 
Two liveried footmen were standing at the door of the drawing room , and one of them advanced to relieve Wilkie of his overcoat , but his services were declined . 
I don't wish to go in , said the young man roughly . 
I wish to speak with Madame d'Argeles in private . 
She is expecting me inform her . 
The servant was hesitating , when Job , suspecting some mystery perhaps , approached . 
M. Wilkie sank into an arm chair , considerably overcome . 
The air of luxury that pervaded the entire establishment , the liveried servants , the lights and flowers , all impressed him much more deeply than he would have been willing to confess . 
And in spite of his affected arrogance , he felt that the superb assurance which was the dominant trait in his character was deserting him . 
In his breast , moreover , in the place where physiologists locate the heart , he felt certain extraordinary movements which strongly resembled palpitations . 
The thought that he was about to commit an atrocious act entered his mind , but he drove it away . 
It was too late now to draw back , or even to reflect . 
Suddenly a door opposite the one by which he had entered opened , and Madame d'Argeles appeared on the threshold . 
She was no longer the woman whose anguish and terror had alarmed her guests . 
During the brief moment of respite which fate had granted her , she had summoned all her energy and courage , and had mastered her despair . 
She felt that her salvation depended upon her calmness , and she had succeeded in appearing calm , haughty , and disdainful as impassive as if she had been a statue . 
Was it you , sir , who sent me this card ? she inquired . 
Greatly disconcerted , M. Wilkie could only bow and stammer out an almost unintelligible answer . 
Yes , he replied , drawling out the name affectedly , I am M. Wilkie . 
Did you desire to speak with me ? inquired Madame d'Argeles , dryly . 
I should like Very well . 
I will listen to you , although your visit is most inopportune , for I have eighty guests or more in my drawing room . 
Still , speak ! It was very easy to say speak , but unfortunately for M. Wilkie he could not articulate a syllable . 
His tongue was as stiff , and as dry , as if it had been paralyzed . 
For he had imagined that Madame d'Argeles would be like other women he had known , but not at all . 
He found her to be an extremely proud and awe inspiring creature , who , to use his own vocabulary , SQUELCHED him completely . 
This fear restored his presence of mind . 
Well , then , he replied , huskily , this is my reason . 
I know nothing respecting my parents . 
This morning , a man with whom you are well acquainted , assured me that I was your son . 
I was completely stunned at first , but after a while I recovered sufficiently to call here , and found that you had gone out . 
He was interrupted by a nervous laugh from Madame d'Argeles . 
For she was heroic enough to laugh , although death was in her heart , and although the nails of her clinched hands were embedded deep in her quivering flesh . 
And you believed him , monsieur ? she exclaimed . 
Madame d'Argeles's laugh had an unnatural ring that awakened his suspicions . 
All Coralth's recommendations buzzed confusedly in his ears , and he judged that the moment had come to do the sentimental , as he would have expressed it . 
So he lowered his head , and in an aggrieved tone , exclaimed Ah ! you think it very amusing , I don't . 
I have no one ! Ah ! if But I only have friends while my money lasts . 
But when my relatives have given me the wherewithal to keep me from starving , they imagine their duty is fulfilled . 
I think this very hard . 
I didn't come into the world at my own request , did I ? I didn't ask to be born . 
Have mercy ! she faltered Wilkie my son , forgive me ! Alas ! the unfortunate woman had failed in playing a part which was too difficult for a mother's heart . 
The poor woman misunderstood this movement . 
Great God ! she exclaimed , he spurns me he loathes me . 
Ah ! I knew it would be so . 
And yet it was for your sake . 
Death would have been a rest , a welcome release for me . 
But your breath was ebbing away , your poor little arms no longer had strength to clasp me round the neck . 
And then I cried 'Perish my soul and body , if only my child can be saved ! I believed such a sacrifice permissible in a mother . 
I am punished for it as if it were a crime . 
I thought you would be happy , my Wilkie . 
I said to myself that you , my pride and joy , would move freely and proudly far above me and my shame . 
I accepted ignominy , so that your honor might be preserved intact . 
I knew the horrors of abject poverty , and I wished to save my son from it . 
I would have licked up the very mire in your pathway to save you from a stain . 
I renounced all hope for myself , and I consecrated all that was noble and generous in my nature to you . 
Oh ! I will discover the vile coward who sent you here , who betrayed my secret . 
I will discover him and I will have my revenge ! You were never to know this , Wilkie . 
In parting from you , I took a solemn oath never to see you again , and to die without the supreme consolation of feeling your lips upon my forehead . 
She could not continue sobs choked her utterance . 
He would willingly have given his third share in Pompier de Nanterre to have made his escape . 
The strangeness of the scene appalled him . 
It was not emotion that he felt , but an instinctive fear mingled with commiseration . 
And he was not only ill at ease , but he was angry with himself for what he secretly styled his weakness . 
Women are incomprehensible , he thought . 
It would be so easy to explain things quietly and properly , but they must always cry and have a sort of melodrama . 
Suddenly the sound of footsteps near the door roused him from his stupor . 
He shuddered at the thought that some one might come in . 
He hated the very idea of ridicule . 
So summoning all his courage he went toward Madame d'Argeles , and , raising her from the floor , he exclaimed Don't cry so . 
You grieve me , upon my word ! Pray get up . 
Do you hear me ? Some one is coming . 
Thereupon , as she offered no resistance , he half led , half carried her to an arm chair , into which she sank heavily . 
Now she is going to faint ! thought Wilkie , in despair . 
What should he do ? Call for help ? He dared not . 
However , necessity inspired him . 
Madame ! She heaved a deep sigh , and in a half stifled voice MADAME ! she repeated . 
Will you not call me mother ? Yes , of course certainly . 
But only you know it will take me some time to acquire the habit . 
I shall do so , of course but I shall have to get used to it , you know . 
You will have to render an account of your honor to him ! My God ! If women thought of this , they would never sin . 
Not at all ! What an idea ! Tell me that you forgive me ! I do , upon my word I do . 
Poor woman , her face brightened . 
She so longed to believe him ! And her son was beside her , so near that she felt his breath upon her cheek . 
Had they ever been separated ? She almost doubted it , she had lived so near him in thought . 
It was with a sort of ecstasy that she looked at him . 
There was a world of entreaty in her eyes they seemed to be begging a caress she raised her quivering lips to his , but he did not observe it . 
His emotion was now spent and his mind had regained its usual indifference . 
He flattered himself that he was a man of mettle and he remained as cold as ice beneath his mother's kisses . 
Indeed , he barely tolerated them and if he did allow her to embrace him , it was only because he did not know how to refuse . 
Will she never have done ? he thought . 
This is a pretty state of things ! I must be very attractive . 
How Costard and Serpillon would laugh if they saw me now . 
Costard and Serpillon were his intimate friends , the co proprietors of the famous steeplechaser . 
In her rapture , however , Madame d'Argeles did not observe the peculiar expression on her son's face . 
When I entered this room , I was firmly resolved to convince you , no matter how , that you had been deceived . 
God knows that it was not my fault if I did not succeed . 
There are some sacrifices that are above human strength . 
M. Wilkie deigned to smile . 
Oh ! yes , I saw your little game , he said , with a knowing air . 
But I had been well posted , and besides , it is not very easy to fool me . 
Madame d'Argeles did not even hear him . 
Perhaps destiny is weary of afflicting us , she continued perhaps a new life is about to begin . 
I can again be happy . 
I , who for years have lived without even hope . 
But will you have courage to forget ? What ? She hung her head , and in an almost inaudible voice replied , The past , Wilkie . 
But with an air of the greatest indifference , he snapped his fingers , and exclaimed Nonsense ! What is past is past . 
Such things are soon forgotten . 
Paris has known many such cases . 
You are my mother I care very little for public opinion . 
I begin by pleasing myself , and I consult other people afterward and when they are dissatisfied , I tell them to mind their own business . 
The poor woman listened to these words with a joy bordering on rapture . 
One might have supposed that the strangeness of her son's expressions would have surprised her have enlightened her in regard to his true character but no . 
She only saw and understood one thing that he had no intention of casting her off , but was indeed ready to devote himself to her . 
Think how much sorrow and pain it will cost you . 
She sprang up , wild with hope and enthusiasm . 
Then we are saved ! she cried . 
I will never set foot in these rooms again the detested gamblers who are sitting here shall never see me again . 
From this moment Lia d'Argeles is dead . 
M. Wilkie positively felt like a man who had just fallen from the clouds . 
What , fly ? he stammered . 
Where shall we go , then ? To a country where we are unknown , Wilkie to a land where you will not have to blush for your mother . 
But Trust yourself to me , my son . 
I know a pleasant village near London where we can find a refuge . 
My connections in England are such that you need not fear the obstacles one generally meets with among foreigners . 
On hearing these words , M. Wilkie sprang up in dismay . 
Excuse me , he said , I don't understand you . 
You propose to set me to work in M. Patterson's factory ? Well , to tell the truth , that doesn't suit me at all . 
It was impossible to mistake M. Wilkie's manner , his tone , or gesture . 
They revealed him in his true character . 
Madame d'Argeles saw her terrible mistake at once . 
The bandage fell from her eyes . 
She had taken her dreams for realities , and the desires of her own heart for those of her son . 
She rose , trembling with sorrow and with indignation . 
You wished to know the source of the money which you spend like water . 
Very well , you may see for yourself . 
This is a gambling house one of those establishments frequented by distinguished personages , which the police ignore , or which they cannot suppress . 
The hubbub you hear is made by the players . 
Some poor wretches have blown their brains out on leaving the house others have parted with the last vestige of honor here . 
And the business pays me well . 
One louis out of every hundred that change hands falls to my share . 
This is the source of your wealth , my son . 
This anger , which succeeded such deep grief this outburst of disdain , following such abject humility considerably astonished M. Wilkie . 
Allow me to ask he began . 
But he was not allowed a hearing . 
I could help you without disgracing you , without despising you . 
I have misjudged him , she thought . 
Poor Wilkie ! Evil advice has led him astray but he is not bad at heart . 
In that case , my poor child , she said aloud , you must see that a new life is about to commence for you . 
What do you intend to do ? How will you gain a livelihood ? People must have food , and clothes , and a roof to shelter them . 
And where will you obtain it you who rebel at the very word work ? Ah ! if I had only listened to M. Patterson . 
He was not blind like myself . 
He was always telling me that I was spoiling you , and ruining your future by giving you so much money . 
And who are your associates ? Dissipated and heartless idlers , grooms , gamblers , and abandoned women . 
A sneer from M. Wilkie interrupted her . 
To think that any one should dare to attack his friends , his tastes , and his pleasures . 
Such a thing was not to be tolerated . 
This is astonishing astonishing , upon my word ! said he . 
She was prepared for anything and everything except this insult from her son . 
Still , she accepted it without rebellion , although it was in a tone of heart broken anguish that she replied Perhaps I have no right to tell you the truth . 
I hope the future will prove that I am wrong . 
However , you are without resources , and you have no profession . 
Pray Heaven that you may never know what it is to be hungry and to have no bread . 
For some time already the ingenious young man had shown unmistakable signs of impatience . 
This gloomy prediction irritated him beyond endurance . 
All this is empty talk , he interrupted . 
I don't mean to work , for it's not at all in my line . 
Still , I don't expect to want for anything ! That's plain enough , I hope . 
Madame d'Argeles did not wince . 
What do you mean to do then ? she asked , coldly . 
He shrugged his shoulders impatiently . 
Are we to keep up this farce for ever ? he petulantly exclaimed . 
It doesn't take with me . 
You know what I mean as well as I do . 
Now M. Wilkie's visit , manner , assurance , wheedling , and contradictions were all explained . 
That maternal confidence which is so strong in the hearts of mothers vanished from Madame d'Argeles's for ever . 
The depths of selfishness and cunning she discerned in Wilkie's mind appalled her . 
She now understood why he had declared himself ready to brave public opinion why he had proved willing to accept his share of the past ignominy . 
It was not his mother's , but the Count de Chalusse's estate that he claimed . 
Ah ! so you've heard of that , she said , in a tone of bitter irony . 
And then , remembering M. Isidore Fortunat , she asked Some one has sold you this valuable secret . 
Do you deny it ? Madame d'Argeles sadly shook her head . 
I deny nothing , she replied , but I am about to tell you something which will destroy all your plans and extinguish your hopes . 
I am resolved , understand , and my resolution is irrevocable , never to assert my rights . 
To receive this fortune , I should be obliged to confess that Lia d'Argeles is a Chalusse and that is a confession which no consideration whatever will wring from me . 
She imagined that this declaration would silence and discomfit Wilkie , but she was mistaken . 
If he had been obliged to depend upon himself he would perhaps have been conquered by it but he was armed with weapons which had been furnished by the cunning viscount . 
So he shrugged his shoulders , and coolly replied In that case we should remain poor , and the government would take possession of our millions . 
I have something to say in this matter . 
You may renounce your claim , but I shall not renounce mine . 
I am your son , and I shall claim the property . 
Even if I entreated you on my knees not to do so ? Yes . 
I will show you that this estate can never be yours . 
By what right will you lay claim to it ? Because you are my son ? But I will deny that you are . 
I will declare upon oath that you are nothing to me , and that I don't even know you . 
But even this did not daunt Wilkie . 
Inquiry as to maternity allowed , etc . 
What the exact bearing of Wilkie's threat might be Madame d'Argeles did not know . 
She understood the situation perfectly . 
With her experience of life , she could not fail to understand the despicable part Wilkie was playing . 
And though it was not her son who had conceived this odious plot , it was more than enough to know that he had consented to carry it into execution . 
But , under the circumstances , she realized that any effort in this direction would prove unavailing . 
In order to prove yourself a member of the Chalusse family you will begin by disgracing the name and dragging it through the mire . 
Wilkie had no wish to prolong this discussion . 
So much talk about an affair , which , in his opinion , at least , was an extremely simple one , seemed to him utterly ridiculous , and irritated him beyond endurance . 
It strikes me this is much ado about nothing , he remarked . 
One would suppose , to hear you talk , that you were the greatest criminal in the world . 
I wager one hundred louis on it . 
Why , if people attempted to rake up the past life of their acquaintances , they should have far too much to do . 
Folks do not trouble themselves as to whether a person has done this or that the essential thing is to have plenty of money . 
And if any fool speaks slightingly of you , you can reply 'I have an income of five hundred thousand francs , and he'll say no more . 
Madame d'Argeles listened , speechless with horror and disgust . 
Was it really her son who was speaking in this style , and to her of all people in the world ? M. Wilkie misunderstood her silence . 
He had an excellent opinion of himself , but he was rather surprised at the effect of his eloquence . 
Besides , I'm tired of vegetating , and having only one name , he continued . 
I want to be on the move . 
Even with the small allowance I've had , I have gained a very good position in society and if I had plenty of money I should be the most stylish man in Paris . 
The count's estate belongs to me , and so I must have it in fact , I will have it . 
I wish you good evening . 
He bowed he was really going , for his hand was already on the door knob . 
But Madame d'Argeles detained him with a gesture . 
One word more , she said , in a voice hoarse with emotion . 
He scarcely deigned to come back , and he made no attempt to conceal his impatience . 
Well , what is it ? he asked , hastily . 
I wish to give you a bit of parting advice . 
The court will undoubtedly decide in your favor I shall be placed in possession of my brother's estate but neither you nor I will have the disposal of these millions . 
Why ? Because , though this fortune belongs to me , the control of it belongs to your father . 
To my father ? he exclaimed . 
Impossible ! It is so , however and you would not have been ignorant of the fact , if your greed for money had not made you forget to question me . 
You believe yourself an illegitimate child . 
Wilkie , you are mistaken . 
You are my legitimate child . 
I am a married woman Bah ! And my husband your father is not dead . 
If he is not here now , threatening our safety , it is because I have succeeded in eluding him . 
He lost all trace of us eighteen years ago . 
Since then he has been constantly striving to discover us , but in vain . 
He is the head of the family your master and mine . 
Ah ! this seems to disturb you . 
You will find him full of insatiable greed for wealth , a greed which has been whetted by twenty years' waiting . 
You may yet see the day when you will regret the paltry twenty thousand francs a year formerly given you by your poor mother . 
Wilkie's face was whiter than his shirt . 
You are deceiving me , he stammered . 
To morrow I will show you my marriage certificate . 
Why not this evening ? Because it is locked up in a room which is now full of people . 
And what was my father's name ? Arthur Gordon he is an American . 
Then my name is Wilkie Gordon ? Yes . 
And is my father rich ? he inquired . 
No. What does he do ? Everything that a man can do when he has a taste for luxury and a horror for work . 
This reply was so explicit in its brevity , and implied so many terrible accusations , that Wilkie was dismayed . 
The devil ! he exclaimed , and where does he live ! He lives at Baden or Homburg in the summer in Paris or at Monaco in the winter . 
Oh ! oh ! oh ! ejaculated Wilkie , in three different tones . 
He knew what he had to expect from such a father as that . 
Anger now followed stupor one of those terrible , white rages which stir the bile and not the blood . 
He saw his hopes and his cherished visions fade . 
Luxury and notoriety , high stepping horses , yellow haired mistresses , all vanished . 
He pictured himself reduced to a mere pittance , and held in check and domineered over by a brutal father . 
Ah ! I understand your game , he hissed through his set teeth . 
Instead of doing that as you hate me you compel me to make the affair public , so that my father will hear of it and defraud me of everything . 
But you won't play this trick on me . 
You are going to write at once , and make known your claim to your brother's estate . 
No. Ah ! you won't ? You refuse He approached threateningly , and caught hold of her arm . 
But at this moment the door was flung open , and a man sprang upon him . 
Like the other guests , the baron had seen the terrible effect produced upon Madame d'Argeles by a simple visiting card . 
But he had this advantage over the others he thought he could divine and explain the reason of this sudden , seemingly incomprehensible terror . 
The poor woman has been betrayed , he thought her son is here ! Still , while the other players crowded around their hostess , he did not leave the card table . 
He was sitting opposite M. de Coralth , and he had seen the dashing viscount start and change color . 
His suspicions were instantly aroused , and he wished to verify them . 
He therefore pretended to be more than ever absorbed in the cards , and swore lustily at the deserters who had broken up the game . 
Come back , gentleman , come back , he cried , angrily . 
We are wasting precious time . 
While you have been trifling there , I might have gained or lost a hundred louis . 
He was nevertheless greatly alarmed , and the prolonged absence of Madame d'Argeles increased his fears each moment . 
At the end of an hour he could restrain himself no longer . 
So taking advantage of a heavy loss , he rose from the table , swearing that the beastly turmoil of a few moments before had changed the luck . 
Then passing into the adjoining drawing room , he managed to make his escape unobserved . 
Where is madame ? he inquired of the first servant he met . 
In the little sitting room . 
Alone ? No a young gentleman is with her . 
The baron no longer doubted the correctness of his conjectures , and his disquietude increased . 
Quickly , and as if he had been in his own house , he hastened to the door of the little sitting room and listened . 
At that moment rage was imparting a truly frightful intonation to M. Wilkie's voice . 
The baron really felt alarmed . 
He stooped , applied his eye to the keyhole , and seeing M. Wilkie with his hand uplifted , he burst open the door and went in . 
He arrived only just in time to fell Wilkie to the floor , and save Madame d'Argeles from that most terrible of humiliations the degradation of being struck by her own son . 
Scoundrel ! You brutal scoundrel ! he growled , ferociously . 
And then , retreating a step Who gave you permission to come in here ? he added . 
Who are you ? By what right do you meddle with my affairs ? By the right that every honest man possesses to chastise a cowardly rascal . 
M. Wilkie shook his fist at the baron . 
You are a coward yourself , he retorted . 
His faced turned as purple as if he were stricken with apoplexy , and such furious rage gleamed in his eyes that Madame d'Argeles was frightened . 
She feared she should see her son butchered before her very eyes , and she extended her arms as if to protect him . 
Jacques , she said beseechingly , Jacques ! This was the name which was indelibly impressed upon Wilkie's memory the name he had heard when he was but a child . 
Jacques that was the name of the man who had brought him cakes and toys in the comfortable rooms where he had remained only a few days . 
He understood , or at least he thought he understood , everything . 
Ah , ha ! he exclaimed , with a laugh that was at once both ferocious and idiotic . 
This is very fine monsieur is the lover . 
The worthy youth was frightened so terribly frightened that his teeth chattered . 
Louder speak up better than that . 
Your mother must answer you ! Alas ! the poor woman could no longer hear . 
She had endured so much during the past hour that her strength was exhausted , and she had fallen back in her arm chair in a deep swoon . 
This advice was not unnecessary . 
Baron Trigault had a powerful hand and M. Wilkie's attire was decidedly the worse for the encounter . 
He obeyed the baron's order without a word , but not without considerable difficulty , for his hands trembled like a leaf . 
But when he had opened it , he suddenly regained his powers of speech . 
I'm not afraid of you , he cried , with frantic violence . 
You have taken advantage of your superior strength you are a coward . 
But this shall not end here . 
No ! you shall answer for it . 
I shall find your address , and to morrow you will receive a visit from my friends M. Costard and M. Serpillon . 
I am the insulted party and I choose swords ! A frightful oath from the baron somewhat hastened M. Wilkie's exit . 
I will not stand such treatment . 
Is it any fault of mine that Madame d'Argeles is a Chalusse , and that she wishes to defraud me of my fortune . 
To morrow , I call you all to witness , there will be a lawyer here . 
Here is my card ! And actually , before he closed the door , he threw one of his cards into the middle of the room . 
The baron did not trouble himself to pick it up his attention was devoted to Madame d'Argeles . 
She was lying back in her arm chair , white , motionless and rigid , to all appearance dead . 
He dipped his handkerchief in it and alternately bathed Madame d'Argeles's temples and chafed her hands . 
It was not long before the cold water revived her . 
She trembled , a convulsive shudder shook her from head to foot , and at last she opened her eyes , murmuring Wilkie ! I have sent him away , replied the baron . 
Poor woman ! with returning life came the consciousness of the terrible reality . 
He is my son ! she moaned , my son , my Wilkie ! Then with a despairing gesture she pressed her hands to her forehead as if to calm its throbbings . 
And I believed that my sin was expiated , she pursued . 
I thought I had been sufficiently punished . 
Fool that I was ! This is my chastisement , Jacques . 
We have all caused our mothers many anxious nights . 
Time will set everything to rights , and put some ballast in this young madcap's brains . 
Besides , your friend Patterson doesn't seem to me quite free from blame . 
In knowledge of books , he may have been unequalled but as a guardian for youth , he must have been the worst of fools . 
It would be a miracle if he were not . 
So take courage , and hope for the best , my dear Lia . 
She shook her head despondingly . 
Do you suppose that my heart hasn't pleaded for him ? she said . 
I am his mother I can never cease to love him , whatever he may do . 
Even now I am ready to give a drop of blood for each tear I can save him . 
But I am not blind I have read his nature . 
If she refuses , insult and beat her ! 'You know , even better than I , baron , that this is impossible . 
In the vilest natures , and when every other honorable feeling has been lost , love for one's mother survives . 
She rested for a moment , and then resumed in a calmer tone Besides , the person who sent him here had counselled coolness and prudence . 
I discovered this at once . 
It was only toward the close of the interview , and after an unexpected revelation from me , that he lost all control over himself . 
The thought that he would lose my brother's millions crazed him . 
By this one circumstance I am convinced that his adviser is a man of experience in such matters in other words , the business agent What business agent ? inquired the baron . 
The person who called here the other day , M. Isidore Fortunat . 
Ah ! why didn't I not bribe him to hold his peace ? The baron had entirely forgotten the existence of Victor Chupin's honorable employer . 
You are mistaken , Lia , he replied . 
M. Fortunat has had no hand in this . 
Ah ! if I thought that ! she exclaimed . 
And then , remembering what reasons the baron had for hating M. de Coralth , she murmured No ! Your animosity misleads you he wouldn't dare ! The baron read her thoughts . 
So you are persuaded that it is personal vengeance that I am pursuing ? said he . 
This might have been so once but it is not the case now . 
And why should you doubt Coralth's treachery ? You , yourself , promised me to unmask HIM . 
If he has betrayed YOU , my poor Lia , he has only been a little in advance of you . 
She hung her head and made no reply . 
Besides , continued the baron , you ought to know that when I make such a statement I have some better foundation for it than mere conjecture . 
It was to some purpose that I watched M. de Coralth during your absence . 
When the servant handed you that card he turned extremely pale . 
Why ? Because he knew whose card it was . 
After you left the room his hands trembled like leaves , and his mind was no longer occupied with the game . 
He who is usually such a cautious player risked his money recklessly . 
When the cards came to him he did still worse and though luck favored him , he made the strangest blunders , and lost . 
The traitor was evidently on coals of fire . 
I could see the perspiration on his forehead , and each time the door opened or shut , he changed color , as if he expected to see you and Wilkie enter . 
With a single word I could have wrung a confession from him . 
This explanation was so plausible that Madame d'Argeles felt half convinced . 
Ah ! if you had only spoken that word ! she murmured . 
The baron smiled a crafty and malicious smile , which would have chilled M. de Coralth's very blood if he had chanced to see it . 
I am not so stupid ! he replied . 
We mustn't frighten the fish till we are quite ready . 
Our net is the Chalusse estate , and Coralth and Valorsay will enter it of their own accord . 
It is not my plan , but M. Ferailleur's . 
There's a man for you ! and if Mademoiselle Marguerite is worthy of him they will make a noble pair . 
The expression of her face betrayed too plainly the terrible ordeal she had passed through . 
The servants had heard M. Wilkie's parting words and news of this sort flies about with the rapidity of lightning . 
Yet such was the heroism that Marguerite , although scarcely twenty , displayed when she left the Hotel de Chalusse to accept the hospitality of the Fondege family . 
And , to crown all , she took Madame Leon with her Madame Leon , whom she knew to be the Marquis de Valorsay's spy . 
But , brave as she was , when the moment of departure came her heart almost failed her . 
There was despair in the parting glance she cast upon the princely mansion and the familiar faces of the servants . 
And there was no one to encourage or sustain her . 
The drive was a silent and tedious one . 
The night was coming on it was a time when all Paris was on the move , and the carriage was delayed at each street corner by a crowd of passing vehicles . 
Her remarks were of a commonplace description , and yet each word she uttered evinced intense satisfaction , almost delight , as if she had won some unexpected victory . 
Occasionally , the General leaned from the carriage window to see if the vehicle laden with Mademoiselle Marguerite's trunks was following them , but he said nothing . 
At last they reached his residence in the Rue Pigalle . 
He alighted first , offered his hand successively to his wife , Mademoiselle Marguerite , and Madame Leon , and motioned the coachman to drive away . 
But the man did not stir . 
Very well ! I will pay you to morrow . 
The man went to his carriage lamp to count the money , and seeing that he had the exact amount And my gratuity ? he asked . 
I give none to insolent people , replied the General . 
You should take a cab if you haven't money enough to pay for coaches , replied the driver with an oath . 
I'll be even with you yet . 
Marguerite heard no more , for Madame de Fondege caught her by the arm and hurried her up the staircase , saying Quick ! we must make haste . 
Your baggage is here already , and we must see if the rooms I intended for you for you and your companion suit you . 
When Marguerite reached the second floor , Madame de Fondege hunted in her pocket for her latch key . 
Not finding it , she rang . 
What ! exclaimed Madame de Fondege , the reception room not lighted yet ? This is scandalous ! What have you been doing in my absence ? Come , make haste . 
Tell the cook that I have some guests to dine with me . 
See that M. Gustave's room is in order . 
Go down and see if the General doesn't need your assistance about the baggage . 
Finding it difficult to choose between so many contradictory orders , the servant did not choose at all . 
Evariste ! cried Madame de Fondege , crimson with anger , Evariste , you insolent fellow ! As he deigned no reply , she rushed out in pursuit of him . 
Madame Leon , who was standing near Mademoiselle Marguerite in the reception room , seemed greatly amused . 
This is a strange household , said she . 
A fine beginning , upon my word . 
But the worthy housekeeper was the last person on earth to whom Mademoiselle Marguerite wished to reveal her thoughts . 
Hush , Leon , she replied . 
We are the cause of all this disturbance , and I am very sorry for it . 
How can I apologize , madame , began Mademoiselle Marguerite , for all the trouble I am giving you ? Ah ! my dear child , I've never been so happy . 
Come , come , and see your room . 
And while they crossed several scantily furnished apartments , Madame de Fondege continued It is I who ought to apologize to you . 
I fear you will pine for the splendors of the Hotel de Chalusse . 
We are not millionaires like your poor father . 
We have only a modest competence , no more . 
Everything was in disorder here , and in fact , the whole room was extremely dirty . 
On the floor , on the furniture , in the corners , everywhere in fact , stumps of cigars were scattered in profusion , as if they had positively rained down . 
What ! gasped Madame de Fondege , you haven't put this room in order , Justine ? Indeed , madame , I haven't had time . 
And turning to Marguerite , she said You will , I am sure , excuse this disorder , my dear child . 
By this time to morrow the room shall be transformed into one of those dainty nests of muslin and flowers which young girls delight in . 
Still she did not hesitate nor even murmur . 
M. de Valorsay's orders bound her to Marguerite , and she deemed it fortunate that she was allowed to follow her . 
And whether the marquis succeeded or not , he had promised her a sufficiently liberal reward to compensate for all personal discomfort . 
The attentions which M. and Madame de Fondege showed her contributed not a little to her resignation . 
Without knowing exactly what the General and his wife expected from Mademoiselle Marguerite , she was shrewd enough to divine that they hoped to gain some important advantage . 
Now her dear child had declared her to be a trusted friend , who was indispensable to her existence and comfort . 
So these people will pay assiduous court to me , she thought . 
That very evening her prophecies were realized and she received a proof of consideration which positively delighted her . 
It was decided that she should take her meals at the family table , a thing which had never happened at the Hotel de Chalusse . 
For there were evidently many little mysteries and make shifts to be concealed in this household . 
For Madame de Fondege exacted this title . 
She had improvised it , as her husband had improvised his title of General , and without much more difficulty . 
Indeed , she sometimes confounded them . 
However , people who had not known her father , the wood merchant , saw nothing impossible in the statements . 
Evariste was dressed as a butler should be dressed when he announces dinner to a person of rank . 
Immediately after his announcement everybody repaired to the sumptuous dining room which , with its huge side boards , loaded with silver and rare china , looked not unlike a museum . 
However , the dinner was badly cooked and poorly served . 
One might have supposed it to be a scullery maid's first attempt . 
Still the General devoured it with delight . 
He partook ravenously of every dish , a flush rose to his cheeks , and an expression of profound satisfaction was visible upon his countenance . 
From this , thought Mademoiselle Marguerite , I must infer that he usually goes hungry , and that this seems a positive feast to him . 
In fact , he seemed bubbling over with contentment . 
He twirled his mustaches a la Victor Emmanuel , and rolled his r , as he said , Sacr r r r r e bleu ! even more ferociously than usual . 
But the General was not at all dismayed . 
The valet , who had just received a week's notice , was only too glad of an opportunity for revenge . 
So with a malicious smile , and in a drawling tone , he replied Then monsieur must give me the money . 
Monsieur knows very well that neither the grocer nor the wine merchant will trust him any longer . 
M. de Fondege rose from the table , looking very pale but before he had time to utter a word , his wife came to the rescue . 
You know , my dear , that I don't trust the key of my cellar to this lad . 
The pert looking chambermaid appeared , and her mistress told her where she would find the key of the famous cellar . 
But the Bordeaux did not restore the General's equanimity . 
He was silent and subdued and his relief was evident when , after the coffee had been served , his wife exclaimed We won't keep you from your club , my dear . 
I want a chat with our dear child . 
Since she dismissed the General so unceremoniously , Madame de Fondege evidently wished for a tete a tete with Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
My relatives would never forgive me if I did not inform them of my change of residence . 
However , Mademoiselle Marguerite evinced no surprise . 
Go at once and inform your relatives , my dear Leon , she said , without a shade of sarcasm in her manner . 
I hope they won't be offended by your devotion to me . 
The General went off , the servants began to clear the table , and Mademoiselle Marguerite followed her hostess to the drawing room . 
It was a lofty and spacious apartment , lighted by three windows , and even more sumptuous in its appointments than the dining room . 
Furniture , carpets , and hangings , were all in rather poor taste , perhaps , but costly , very costly . 
As the evening was a cold one , Madame de Fondege ordered the fire to be lighted . 
I mean , have you decided what dresses you will purchase ? It is an important matter , my dear more important than you suppose . 
They are making costumes entirely of crepe now , puffed and plaited , and extremely stylish . 
I saw one that would suit you well . 
You may think that a costume for deep mourning made with puffs would be a trifle LOUD , but that depends upon tastes . 
Was Madame de Fondege speaking sincerely ? There could be no doubt of it . 
I am entirely at your service , my dear , if you wish any shopping done , she continued . 
And if you are not quite pleased with your dressmaker , I will take you to mine , who works like an angel . 
But how absurd I am . 
You will of course employ Van Klopen . 
I go to him occasionally myself , but only on great occasions . 
Between you and me , I think him a trifle too high in his charges . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite could scarcely repress a smile . 
I must confess , madame , that from my infancy I have been in the habit of making almost all my dresses myself . 
The General's wife raised her eyes to Heaven in real or feigned astonishment . 
Yourself ! she repeated four or five times , as if to make sure that she had heard aright . 
What I did , I did for my own pleasure . 
But this assertion exceeded Madame de Fondege's powers of comprehension . 
I was probably not a very close follower of the fashions , she replied . 
The dress that I am wearing now . 
Is very pretty , my child , and it becomes you extremely that's the truth . 
Only , to be frank , I must confess that this style is no longer worn no not at all . 
You must have your new dresses made in quite a different way . 
But I already have more dresses than I need , madame . 
What ! black dresses ? I seldom wear anything but black . 
Evidently her hostess had never heard anything like this before . 
A tear fell from Marguerite's long lashes . 
I was very happy there , madame , she murmured . 
You think so but you will change your mind . 
When one has never tasted real pleasure , one cannot realize how gloomy one's life really is . 
No doubt , you were very unhappy alone with M. de Chalusse . 
Oh ! madame Tut ! tut ! my dear , I know what I am talking about . 
Wait until you have been introduced into society before you boast of the charms of solitude . 
Poor dear ! I doubt if you have ever attended a ball in your whole life . 
No ! I was sure of it , and you are twenty ! Fortunately , I am here . 
What she was saying now she really meant and as it was to her interest to say it , she urged her opinions boldly and even eloquently . 
Twenty four hours earlier , proud and truthful Marguerite would have silenced her at once . 
She would have told her that such pleasures could never have any charm for her , and that she felt only scorn and disgust for such worthless aims and sordid desires . 
But having resolved to appear a dupe , she concealed her real feelings under an air of surprise , and was astonished and even ashamed to find that she could dissemble so well . 
Besides , continued Madame de Fondege , a marriageable young girl should never shut herself up like a nun . 
She will never find a husband if she remains at home and she must marry . 
Indeed , marriage is a sensible woman's only object in life , since it is her emancipation . 
Was Madame de Fondege going to plead her son's cause ? Mademoiselle Marguerite almost believed it but the lady was too shrewd for that . 
She took good care not to mention as much as Lieutenant Gustave's name . 
The season will certainly be unusually brilliant , she said , and it will begin very early . 
On the fifth of November , the Countess de Commarin will give a superb fete all Paris will be there . 
On the seventh , there will be a ball at the house of the Viscountess de Bois d'Ardon . 
This is the first time I ever heard the name mentioned . 
Really ! and you have been living in Paris for years . 
You must know then , my dear little ignoramus , that the Baroness Trigault is one of the most distinguished ladies in Paris , and certainly the best dressed . 
I will introduce you to her . 
Having once started on this theme , Madame de Fondege was not easily silenced . 
Madame Landoire , the milliner , is here , and desires to speak with Madame la Comtesse , he said . 
On hearing this name , Madame de Fondege started as if she had been stung by a viper . 
Let her wait , she said quickly . 
I will see her in a moment . 
The order was useless , for the visitor was already on the threshold . 
She was a tall , dark haired , ill mannered woman . 
Ah ! I've found you at last , she said , rudely , and I'm not sorry . 
This is the fourth time I've come here with my bill . 
Madame de Fondege pointed to Mademoiselle Marguerite , and exclaimed Wait , at least , until I am alone before you speak to me on business . 
Madame Landoire shrugged her shoulders . 
As if you were ever alone , she growled . 
I wish to put an end to this . 
Step into my room then , and we will put an end to it , and at once . 
After receiving a maternal kiss from her hostess , accompanied by a sleep well , my dear child , she retired to her own room . 
It was fortunate that she had lost no time , for her writing case was scarcely in its place again before Madame Leon entered , evidently out of sorts . 
Ah ? So I shall go again early to morrow morning you must realize how important it is . 
She did not succeed in finding the Marquis de Valorsay , thought Marguerite , and being in doubt as to the part she is to play , she feels furious . 
The young girl tried to sum up the impressions of the evening , and to decide upon a plan of conduct , but she felt sad and very weary . 
But before she fell asleep she was able to collect another bit of evidence . 
The sheets on her bed were new . 
She knew how to watch and how to listen , how to deliberate and how to act . 
Still she felt no fears . 
She had been in danger once before when she was little more than a child , when the brother of her employer insulted her with his attentions , but she had escaped unharmed . 
Deceit was certainly most repugnant to her truth loving nature but it was the only weapon of defence she possessed . 
And so on the following day she carefully studied the abode of her entertainers . 
And certainly the study was instructive . 
Ease , health , and comfort had been unscrupulously sacrificed to show . 
The dining room was magnificent , the drawing room superb but these were the only comfortably furnished apartments in the establishment . 
The other rooms were bare and desolate . 
On the other hand , her bed had no curtains . 
The aspect of the place fittingly explained the habits and manners of the inmates . 
And they keep three servants , thought Mademoiselle Marguerite three enemies who spend their time in ridiculing them , and torturing their vanity . 
Thus , on the very first day after her arrival , she realized the real situation of the General and his wife . 
They were certainly on the verge of ruin when Mademoiselle Marguerite accepted their hospitality . 
Yes , thought Mademoiselle Marguerite to herself , the Fondeges were ruined when I came here . 
They would never have sunk so low if they had not been utterly destitute of resources . 
Her common sense told her that her task would merely consist in carefully watching the behavior of the General and his wife , in noting their expenditure , and so on . 
It was a matter of close attention , and of infinitesimal trifles . 
Nor was she much encouraged by her first success . 
It was , perhaps , important and yet it might be nothing . 
For she felt that the real difficulties would not begin until she became morally certain that the General had stolen the millions that were missing from the count's escritoire . 
Even then it would remain for her to discover how he had obtained possession of this money . 
And when she had succeeded in doing this , would her task be ended ? Certainly not . 
She must obtain sufficient evidence to give her the right of accusing the General openly , and in the face of every one . 
She must have material and indisputable proofs before she could say A robbery has been committed . 
I was accused of it . 
However , she was fully decided on one point the suspicions of the Fondege family must not be aroused . 
But the events of the next few days dispelled these apprehensions . 
That very afternoon , although it was Sunday , it became evident that a shower of gold had fallen on the General's abode . 
The door bell rang incessantly for several hours , and an interminable procession of tradesmen entered . 
It looked very much as if M. de Fondege had called a meeting of his creditors . 
So they had been paid . 
And as if to prove to Mademoiselle Marguerite that her suspicions were correct , she chanced to be present when the livery stable keeper presented his bill . 
Madame de Fondege received him very haughtily . 
Ah ! here you are ! she exclaimed , rudely , as soon as he appeared . 
So you are the man who teaches his drivers to insult his customers ? That is an excellent way to gain patronage . 
You should demand payment in advance if you are so suspicious . 
When I have cause to complain of the people I employ , I dismiss them and replace them by others . 
Insolence is one of those things that I never forgive . 
The man , in whose face doubt , fear , and hope had succeeded each other in swift succession , thereupon drew an interminable bill from his pocket . 
They say the payment of a bad debt delights a merchant a thousand times more than the settlement of fifty good ones . 
The truth of this assertion became apparent in the present case . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite thought the man was going to beg Madame la Comtesse to do him the favor to withhold a portion of the small amount . 
For the Parisian tradesman is so constituted that very frequently it is not necessary to pay him money , but only to show it . 
His coachman was only a fool and a drunkard , who had misunderstood him entirely , and whom he should ignominiously dismiss on returning to his establishment . 
But Madame la Comtesse was inflexible . 
She sent the man about his business , saying , I never place myself in a position to be treated with disrespect a second time . 
This probably accounted for the fact that Evariste , the footman , who had been so wanting in respect the previous evening , had been sent away that very morning . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite did not see him again . 
Dinner was served by a new servant , who had been sent by an Employment Office , and engaged without a question , no doubt because Evariste's livery fitted him like a glove . 
Had the cook also been replaced ? Mademoiselle Marguerite thought so , though she had no means of convincing herself on this point . 
It was certain , however , that the Sunday dinner was utterly unlike that of the evening before . 
Quality had replaced quantity , and care , profusion . 
Is it possible that I am deceived ? Marguerite said to herself , on retiring to her room that evening . 
I feel quite at home here , said she and though my room is a trifle small , I shall have nothing to wish for when it has been refurnished . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite spent a restless and uncomfortable night . 
In spite of her reason , in spite of the convincing proofs she had seen , the most disturbing doubts returned . 
The only thing that really encouraged her was the thought that she could consult the old magistrate , and that M. de Chalusse's former agent might succeed in finding Pascal Ferailleur . 
She rose early the next morning , and had almost completed her toilette , when she heard some one in the passage outside rapping at the door of Madame Leon's room . 
Who's there ? inquired that worthy lady . 
It was Justine , Madame de Fondege's maid , who answered in a pert voice , Here is a letter , madame , which has just been sent up by the concierge . 
It is addressed to Madame Leon . 
That is your name , is it not ? Marguerite staggered as if she had received a heavy blow . 
My God ! a letter from the Marquis de Valorsay ! she thought . 
It was evident that the estimable lady was expecting this missive by the eagerness with which she sprang out of bed and opened the door . 
I recognize his hand writing . 
And then the door closed again . 
Standing silent and motionless in the middle of her room , Marguerite listened with that feverish anxiety that excites the perceptive faculties to the utmost degree . 
Suddenly a crack in the partition attracted her attention , and finding that it extended through the wall , she realized she might watch what was passing in the adjoining room . 
So she approached the spot on tiptoe , and , with bated breath , stooped and looked in . 
In her impatience to learn the contents of her letter , Madame Leon had not gone back to bed . 
She had broken the seal , and was reading the missive , standing barefooted in her night dress , directly opposite the little crevice . 
She read line after line , and word after word , and her knitted brows and compressed lips suggested deep concentration of thought mingled with discontent . 
My God ! exclaimed Marguerite , with bated breath , if she would only forget it ! But she did not forget it . 
I shall never know , then , thought Marguerite no , I shall never know . 
But I must know and I will ! she added vehemently . 
I must be a fool if I can't find some way of gaining possession of that letter , she said to herself again and again . 
I'm sure I could find in it the explanation of the abominable intrigue which Pascal and I are the victims of . 
Happily , her preoccupation was not remarked . 
Each person present was too deeply engrossed in his or her own concerns to notice the behavior of the others . 
For she was rather fond of good living , the dear lady , as she confessed herself , adding that no one is perfect . 
As for Madame de Fondege , her head seemed to have been completely turned by the prospect of the approaching fete at the Countess de Commarin's . 
She had only a fortnight left to make her preparations . 
A wide flounce of Valenciennes at the bottom of the skirt . 
Over this , I shall wear a tunic of pearl gray crepe , edged with a fringe of the various shades in the dress , and forming a panier behind . 
And certainly , the General's wife deemed the proposal a seductive one . 
It is a very fashionable amusement to run from one shop to another , even when one cannot , or will not , buy . 
It is a custom , which some noble ladies have imported from America , to the despair of the poor shopkeepers . 
And thus every fine afternoon , the swell shops are filled to overflowing with richly attired dames and damsels , who ask to see all the new goods . 
It is far more amusing than remaining at home . 
Nor do the shrewdest always return from these expeditions empty handed . 
I have so many things to put in order , she added , feeling that an excuse was indispensable . 
But Madame Leon , who had not the same reasons as her dear child for wishing to remain at home , kindly offered her services . 
Very well , replied Madame de Fondege , I will take you with me , then but make haste and dress while I put on my bonnet . 
They left the breakfast room at the same time , closely followed by Mademoiselle Marguerite , who was disturbed by a hope which she scarcely dared confess to herself . 
And a few moments afterward they left the house together . 
As the outer door closed after them , Marguerite's brain whirled . 
If she were not deceived , Madame Leon had left the key of the drawers in the pocket of the dress she had just taken off . 
So it was with a wildly throbbing heart that she opened the communicating door and entered her companion's room . 
She hastily approached the bed on which the dress was lying , and , with a trembling hand , she began to search for the pocket . 
Fortune favored her ! The key was there . 
The letter was within her reach . 
But she was about to do a deed against which her whole nature revolted . 
At last the instinct of self preservation overpowered her scruples . 
Was not her honor , and Pascal's honor also , at stake as well as their mutual love and happiness ? It would be folly to hesitate . 
And with a firm hand she placed the key in the lock . 
The latter was out of order and the drawer was only opened with difficulty . 
But there , on some clothes which Madame Leon had not yet found time to arrange , Marguerite saw the letter . 
She eagerly snatched it up , unfolded it , and read Dear Madame Leon Dear me , she muttered , here is the name in full . 
This is an indiscretion which will render denial difficult . 
So Mademoiselle Marguerite's penetration had served her well . 
All this talk about anxious relatives had only been an excuse invented by Madame Leon to enable her to absent herself whenever occasion required . 
I regret , continued the letter , that you did not find me at home , for I have instructions of the greatest importance to give you . 
We are approaching the decisive moment . 
P. F. these initials of course meant Pascal Ferailleur . 
Then he was innocent , and she held an undeniable , irrefutable proof of his innocence in her hands . 
The girl referred to her , of course . 
But , just as she gives herself up for lost , I shall interpose . 
I shall save her and it will be strange if gratitude does not work the necessary miracle in my favor . 
The plan is certain to succeed . 
, will consent to lend us a helping hand . 
What kind of a man is he ? If he is accessible to the seductive influence of a few thousand francs , I shall consider the business as good as concluded . 
Your conduct up to the present time has been a chef d'oeuvre , for which you shall be amply compensated . 
You have cause to know that I am not ungrateful . 
Let the F's continue their intrigues , and even pretend to favor them . 
I am not afraid of these people . 
I understand their game perfectly , and know why they wish my little one to marry their son . 
But when they become troublesome , I shall crush them like glass . 
In spite of these explanations , which I have just given you for your guidance , it is very necessary that I should see you . 
I shall look for you on Tuesday afternoon , between three and four o'clock . 
Above all , don't fail to bring me the desired information respecting Dr . 
I am , my dear madame , devotedly yours V. Below ran a postscript which read as follows When you come on Tuesday bring this letter with you . 
We will burn it together . 
Don't imagine that I distrust you but there is nothing so dangerous as letters . 
The reality surpassed her worst apprehensions , but realizing the gravity of the situation , she shook off the torpor stealing over her . 
She felt that every second was precious , and that she must act , and act at once . 
It would be madness not to seize this flagrant proof of the Marquis de Valorsay's infamy . 
But on the other hand , if she kept the letter , Madame Leon would immediately discover its loss , and an explanation would be unavoidable . 
M. de Valorsay would be worsted , but not annihilated , and the plans which made the physician's intervention a necessity would never be revealed . 
She thought of hastening to her friend the old magistrate but he lived a long way off , and time was pressing . 
Besides she might not find him at home . 
Then she thought of going to a notary , to a judge . 
She would show them the letter , and they could take a copy of it . 
But no this would do no good the marquis could still deny it . 
She was becoming desperate , and was accusing herself of stupidity , when a sudden inspiration illumined her mind , turning night into day , as it were . 
Oh , Pascal , we are saved ! she exclaimed . 
Unfortunately she was not acquainted with this part of Paris , and on reaching the Rue Pigalle she was at a loss for her way . 
The grocer stepped to the door to watch her . 
That girl's certainly light headed , he thought . 
Her demeanor was really so extraordinary that it attracted the attention of the passers by . 
She saw this , and slackening her pace , tried to become more composed . 
He is here , replied the man . 
Does madame come for a photograph ? Yes . 
Then will madame be so kind as to pass in . 
She will not be obliged to wait long . 
There are only four or five persons before her . 
Four or five persons ! How long would she be obliged to wait ? half an hour two hours ? She had not the slightest idea . 
I cannot wait , she said , imperiously . 
I must speak to M. Carjat at once . 
But At once , I tell you . 
Go and tell him that he must come . 
Her tone was so commanding , and there was so much authority in her glance , that the servant hesitated no longer . 
He ushered her into a little sitting room , and said , If madame will take a seat , I will call monsieur . 
She sank on to a chair , for her limbs were failing her . 
She was beginning to realize the strangeness of the step she had taken to fear the result it might lead to and to be astonished at her own boldness . 
The honor of two persons is imperilled by each moment I lose here . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite's embarrassment was extreme . 
Her cheeks were crimson , and she trembled like a leaf . 
This striking contrast this struggle between girlish timidity and a lover's virgil energy , endowed her with a strange and powerful charm , which the photographer made no attempt to resist . 
Unusual as was the request , he did not hesitate . 
I am ready to do what you desire , madame , he replied , bowing again . 
Oh ! monsieur , how can I ever thank you ? He did not stop to listen to her thanks . 
While he was speaking , Mademoiselle Marguerite paused but , as soon as his instructions were concluded , she remarked Perhaps you are too hasty , sir . 
You have not allowed me to explain and perhaps what I desire is impossible . 
I came on the impulse of the moment , without any knowledge on the subject . 
Before you set to work , I must know if what you can do will answer my purpose . 
Will the copy you obtain be precisely like the original in every particular ? In every particular . 
The writing will be the same exactly the same ? Absolutely the same . 
And the operation will leave no trace on the original ? None . 
A smile of triumph played upon Mademoiselle Marguerite's lips . 
It was as she had thought the defensive plan which she had suddenly conceived was a good one . 
One more question , sir , she resumed . 
I am only a poor , ignorant girl excuse me , and give me the benefit of your knowledge . 
This letter will be returned to its author to morrow , and he will burn it . 
Now he understood Mademoiselle Marguerite's motive , and the importance she attached to a facsimile . 
But this imparted an unexpected gravity to the service he was called upon to perform . 
He therefore wished some time for reflection , and he scrutinized Mademoiselle Marguerite as if he were trying to read her very soul . 
Meanwhile , his assistant had returned , bringing the necessary apparatus with him . 
When all was ready , the photographer asked her , Will you give me the letter , madame ? She hesitated for a second only for a second . 
The man's honest , kindly face told her that he would not betray her , that he would rather give her assistance . 
He read her thoughts , and understood that she either dared not ask for a pledge of secrecy , or else that she thought it unnecessary . 
He took pity on her , and his last doubt fled . 
I shall read this letter , madame , said he , but I am the only person who will read it . 
I give you my word on that ! No one but myself will see the proofs . 
Greatly moved , she offered him her hand , and simply said , Thanks I am more than repaid . 
To obtain an absolutely perfect facsimile of a letter is a delicate and sometimes lengthy operation . 
However , at the end of about twenty minutes , the photographer possessed two negatives that promised him perfect proofs . 
Great heavens ! all would be lost if it came to the knowledge of any one . 
I will send for them , or come myself . 
And , feeling the extent of her obligation , she added , But I will not go without introducing myself I am Mademoiselle Marguerite de Chalusse . 
And , thereupon , she went off , leaving the photographer surprised at the adventure and dazzled by his strange visitor's beauty . 
Rather more than an hour had elapsed since Marguerite left M. de Fondege's house . 
The ladies were still out , and Mademoiselle Marguerite found everything in the same condition as she had left it . 
She carefully placed the letter in the drawer again , locked it , and put the key in the pocket of Madame Leon's dress . 
Then she breathed freely once more and , for the first time in six days , she felt something very like joy in her heart . 
Now she had no fear of the Marquis de Valorsay . 
She had him in her power . 
He would destroy his letter the next day , and think that he was annihilating all proofs of his infamy . 
At the decisive moment , at the very moment of his triumph , she would produce the photograph of this letter , and crush him . 
And she only a young girl had outwitted this consummate scoundrel ! I have not been unworthy of Pascal , she said to herself , with a flash of pride . 
However , her nature was not one of those weak ones which are become intoxicated by the first symptom of success , and then relax in their efforts . 
When her excitement had abated a little , she was inclined to disparage rather than to exaggerate the advantage she had gained . 
What she desired was a complete , startling , incontestable victory . 
It was not enough to prove Valorsay's GUILT she was resolved to penetrate his designs , to discover why he pursued her so desperately . 
And , though she felt that she possessed a formidable weapon of defence , she could not drive away her gloomy forebodings when she thought of the threats contained in the marquis's letter . 
These words persistently lingered in Mademoiselle Marguerite's mind . 
I will never go out unarmed , she thought , and woe to the man who raises his hand against me ! The vagueness of the threat increased her fears . 
No one is courageous enough to confront an unknown , mysterious , and always imminent danger without sometimes faltering . 
The marquis was not her only enemy . 
She had the Fondege family to dread these dangerous hypocrites , who had taken her to their home so that they might ruin her the more surely . 
M. de Valorsay wrote that he had no fears of the Fondeges that he understood their little game . 
What was their little game ? No doubt they were resolved that she should become their son's wife , even if they were obliged to use force to win her consent . 
At this thought a sudden terror seized her soul , so full of peace and hope an instant before . 
Fortunately she had a friend in whom she could safely confide the old magistrate who had given her such proofs of sympathy . 
She felt that she needed the advice of a riper experience than her own , and the thought of consulting him at once occurred to her . 
She was alone she had no spy to fear and it would be folly not to profit by the few moments of liberty that remained . 
She finished her letter , but did not seal it . 
If anything should happen before I have an opportunity to post it , I will add a postscript , she said to herself . 
She had made all possible haste , fearing that Madame de Fondege and Madame Leon might return at any moment . 
But this was truly a chimerical apprehension . 
It was nearly six o'clock when the two shoppers made their appearance , wearied with the labors of the day , but in fine spirits . 
It was one of those opportunities one ought always to profit by , she said , as she displayed her purchase . 
Besides , it is the same with lace as with diamonds , you should purchase them when you can then you have them . 
It isn't an outlay it's an investment . 
Subtle reasoning that has cost many a husband dear ! On her side , Madame Leon proudly showed her dear young lady a very pretty present which Madame de Fondege had given her . 
So money is no longer lacking in this household , thought Mademoiselle Marguerite , all the more confirmed in her suspicions . 
The General came in a little later , accompanied by a friend , and Marguerite soon discovered that the worthy man had spent the day as profitably as his wife . 
He too was quite tired out and he had reason to be fatigued . 
First , he had purchased the horses belonging to the ruined spendthrift , and he had paid five thousand francs for them , a mere trifle for such animals . 
Less than an hour after the purchase he had refused almost double that amount from a celebrated connoisseur in horse flesh , M. de Breulh Faverlay . 
He had not been foolish , for he was sure that he could sell the animal again at an advance of a thousand francs whenever he wished to do so . 
So , remarked his friend , if you bought such a horse every day , you would make three hundred and sixty five thousand francs a year . 
One thing is certain , the General did not lose his temper , but gayly continued his account of the way in which he had spent his time . 
He had , moreover , hired stabling in the Rue Pigalle , only a few steps from the house , and he expected a coachman and a groom the following morning . 
And all this will cost us less than the miserable vehicle we have been hiring by the year , observed Madame de Fondege , gravely . 
Oh , I know what I say . 
What with gratuities and extras , it costs us now fully a thousand francs a month , and three horses and a coachman won't cost you more . 
And what a difference ! I shall no longer be obliged to blush for the skinny horses the stable keeper sends me , nor to endure the insolence of his men . 
The first outlay frightened me a little but that is made now , and I am delighted . 
We will save it in something else . 
In laces , no doubt , thought Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
This audacity must arise from a conviction that no proofs of the crime they have committed exist . 
Still they continue to talk to me about their son , Lieutenant Gustave . 
He will be presented to me to morrow . 
I hope to make my escape easily enough , for at that same hour , Madame Leon has an appointment with the Marquis de Valorsay . 
X. The old legend of Achilles's heel will be eternally true . 
M. Isidore Fortunat's weak place was his cash box . 
To attack him there was to endanger his life to wound him at a point where all his sensibility centred . 
For it was in this cash box and not in his breast that his heart really throbbed . 
His safe made him happy or dejected . 
Happy when it was filled to overflowing by some brilliant operation , and dejected when he saw it become empty as some imprudent transaction failed . 
This explains , too , the intensity of the hatred he now felt for the Marquis de Valorsay and the Viscount de Coralth . 
The former , the marquis , had defrauded him of forty thousand francs in glittering gold . 
Just fancy , his business was to outwit others , and a couple of mere amateurs had outgeneraled him . 
He had not only suffered in pocket , he had been humiliated as well , and so he indulged in threats of such terrible import . 
He read it with intense astonishment , rubbing his eyes as if to assure himself that he were really awake . 
Tuesday , he repeated , the day after to morrow at your house between three and four o'clock I must speak with you . 
He perceived this , and angrily exclaimed What are you doing here ? You are watching me , I do believe . 
Get back to your kitchen , or She fled in alarm , and he then entered his private office . 
His heart was leaping with joy , and he laughed wickedly at the hope of a speedy revenge . 
She's on the scent , he muttered and she has luck in her favor . 
Just as I was thinking of going in search of her , she comes to me . 
As I was about to write to her , she writes to me . 
If she has any courage , he resumed , and she seems to have plenty of it , Valorsay and Coralth will be in a tight place soon . 
I'll even pay the expenses out of my own pocket , if necessary . 
Ah , my fine fellows , you've laughed too soon . 
In a week's time we'll see who laughs last . 
He paused , for Victor Chupin , who had lingered behind to pay the driver , had just entered the room . 
You gave me twenty francs , m'sieur , he remarked to his employer . 
I paid the driver four francs and five sous , here's the change . 
Keep it yourself , Victor , said M. Fortunat . 
What ! keep fifteen francs and fifteen sous ? Under any other circumstances such unusual generosity would have drawn a grimace of satisfaction from young Chupin . 
But to day he did not even smile he slipped the money carelessly into his pocket , and scarcely deigned to say thanks , in the coldest possible tone . 
Absorbed in thought , M. Fortunat did not remark this little circumstance . 
We have them , Victor , he resumed . 
I told you that Valorsay and Coralth should pay me for their treason . 
Victor read it slowly , and as soon as he had finished his employer ejaculated , Well ? But Chupin was not a person to give advice lightly . 
Excuse me , m'sieur , said he , but in order to answer you , I must have some knowledge of the affair . 
I only know what you've told me which is little enough and what I've guessed . 
In fact , I know nothing at all . 
M. Fortunat reflected for a moment . 
You are right , Victor , he said , at last . 
This will prove my great confidence in you . 
Whereupon , he acquainted Chupin with everything he knew concerning the history of M. de Chalusse , the Marquis de Valorsay , and Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
However , if he expected these disclosures to elevate him in his subordinate's estimation he was greatly mistaken . 
Chupin had sufficient experience and common sense to read his master's character and discern his motives . 
Still , the young fellow did not allow his real feelings to appear on his face . 
Do you want the particulars of the viscount's past life ? If so , I can furnish them . 
He's married , as I told you before , and I'll find his wife for you in a few days . 
I don't know exactly where she lives , but she keeps a tobacco store , somewhere , and that's enough . 
She'll tell you how much he's a viscount . 
Ha ! ha ! Viscount just as much as I am and no more . 
I can tell you the scrapes he has been in . 
No doubt but the most important thing is to know how he's living now , and on what ! Not by honest work , I can tell you . 
But give me a little time , and I'll find out for sure . 
A smile of satisfaction appeared on M. Fortunat's face . 
Good , Victor ! he said , approvingly , very good ! I see that you will serve me with your usual zeal and intelligence . 
Rest assured that you will be rewarded as you have never been rewarded before . 
As long as you are engaged in this affair , you shall have ten francs a day and I'll pay your board , your cab hire , and all your expenses . 
This was a most liberal offer , and yet , far from seeming delighted , Chupin gravely shook his head . 
You know how I value money , m'sieur , he began . 
Too much , Victor , my boy , too much Excuse me , it's because I have responsibilities , m'sieur . 
I love money , don't I ? But no matter , I don't want to be paid for this business . 
I don't want either my board or my expenses , not a penny nothing . 
I'll serve you , but for my own sake , for my own pleasure gratis . 
M. Fortunat could not restrain an exclamation of astonishment . 
Victor had become very much excited his usually pale cheeks were crimson , and in a harsh voice , he continued It's a fancy of mine that's all . 
I have eight hundred francs hidden in my room , the fruit of years of work . 
I'll spend the last penny of it if need be and if I can see Coralth in the mire , I shall say , 'My money has been well expended . 
I'd rather see that day dawn than be the possessor of a hundred thousand francs . 
If a horrible vision haunted you every night , and prevented you from sleeping , wouldn't you give something to get rid of it ? Very well ! that brigand's my nightmare . 
There must be an end to it . 
For he was the cause of all my trouble , he continued , gloomily . 
I've told you , sir , that I was guilty of an infamous deed once upon a time . 
If it hadn't been for a miracle I should have killed a man the king of men . 
Ah , well ! if Monsieur Andre had broken his back by falling from a fifth floor window , my Coralth would be the Duc de Champdoce to day . 
And shall he be allowed to ride about in his carriage , and deceive and ruin honest people ? No there are too many such villains at large for public safety . 
Wait a little , Coralth I owe you something , and I always pay my debts . 
When M. Andre saved me , though I richly deserved to have my throat cut , he made no conditions . 
He only said , 'If you are not irredeemably bad you will be honest after this . 
And he said these words as he was lying there as pale as death with his shoulder broken , and his body mangled from his fall . 
Great heavens ! I felt smaller than than nothing before him . 
And that quenches my thirst instantly . 
I have his portrait at home , and every night , before going to bed , I tell him the history of the day and sometimes I fancy that he smiles at me . 
All this is very absurd , perhaps , but I'm not ashamed of it . 
M. Andre and my good mother , they are my supports , my crutches , and with them I'm not afraid of making a false step . 
Schebel , the German philosopher , who has written a treatise on Volition , in four volumes , was no greater a man than Chupin . 
So you may keep your money , sir , he resumed . 
I'm an honest fellow , and honest men ought to ask no reward for the performance of a duty . 
Coralth mustn't be allowed to triumph over the innocent chap he ruined . 
What did you call him ? Ferailleur ? It's an odd name . 
Never mind we'll get him out of this scrape he shall marry his sweetheart after all and I'll dance at the wedding . 
As he finished speaking he laughed a shrill , dangerous laugh , which revealed his sharp teeth but such invincible determination was apparent on his face , that M. Fortunat felt no misgivings . 
He was sure that this volunteer would be of more service than the highest priced hireling . 
So I can count on you , Victor ? he inquired . 
And you hope to have some positive information by Tuesday ? Before then , I hope , if nothing goes amiss . 
Very well I will devote my attention to Ferailleur then . 
As to Valorsay's affairs , I am better acquainted with them than he is himself . 
We must be prepared to enter upon the campaign when Mademoiselle Marguerite comes , and we will act in accordance with her instructions . 
Chupin had already caught up his hat but just as he was leaving the room , he paused abruptly . 
How stupid ! he exclaimed . 
I had forgotten the principal thing . 
Where does Coralth live ? Unfortunately , I don't know . 
According to his habit when things did not go to his liking , Chupin began to scratch his head furiously . 
That's bad , growled he . 
Viscounts of his stamp don't parade their addresses in the directory . 
Still , I shall find him . 
However , although he expressed this conviction he went off decidedly out of temper . 
I shall lose the entire evening hunting up the rascal's address , he grumbled , as he hastened homeward . 
And whom shall I ask for it ? Madame d'Argeles's concierge ? Would he know it M. Wilkie's servant ? That would be dangerous . 
I have it ! he muttered my man's caught ! And he darted into the nearest cafe where he ordered some beer and writing materials . 
When shall I have my revenge ? Your friend , VALORSAY . 
When he had finished this letter he read it over three or four times , asking himself if this were the style of composition that very fashionable folks employ in repaying their debts . 
To tell the truth , he doubted it . 
In the rough draft which he penned at first , he had written bezique , but in the copy he wrote piquet , which he deemed a more aristocratic game . 
He next addressed the envelope as follows Monsieur le Vicomte de Coralth , En Ville , and having completed his preparations , he paid his score , and hastened to Brebant's . 
I ran after him to return it but I couldn't overtake him . 
The waiters examined the address . 
He isn't a regular customer , but he comes here occasionally . 
And where does he live ? Why do you wish to know ? So as to take him this letter , to be sure ! The waiters shrugged their shoulders . 
Let the letter go it is not worth while to trouble yourself . 
Chupin had foreseen this objection , and was prepared for it . 
But there's money in the letter , he remonstrated . 
And opening the envelope , he showed the bank note which he had taken from his own pocket book . 
This changed the matter entirely . 
That is quite a different thing , remarked one of the waiters . 
If you find money , you are , of course , responsible for it . 
But just leave it here at the desk , and the next time the viscount comes in , the cashier will give it to him . 
A cold chill crept over Chupin at the thought of losing his bank note in this way . 
Ah ! I don't fancy that idea ! he exclaimed . 
And that's why I want his address . 
Unless perhaps the porter knows , observed one of them . 
The porter , on being called , remembered that he had once been sent to M. de Coralth's house for an overcoat . 
I've forgotten his number , he declared but he lives in the Rue d'Anjou , near the corner of the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque . 
This direction was not remarkable for its precision , but it was more than sufficient for a pure blooded Parisian like Victor Chupin . 
Many thanks for your kindness , he said to the porter . 
A blind man , perhaps , might not be able to go straight to M. de Coralth's house from your directions , but I have eyes and a tongue as well . 
And , believe me , if there's any reward , you shall see that I know how to repay a good turn . 
And if you don't find the viscount , added the waiters , bring the money here , and it will be returned to him . 
And he strode hurriedly away . 
Return ! he muttered not I ! I thought for a moment they had their hands on my precious bank note . 
But he had already recovered from his fright , and as he turned his steps homeward he congratulated himself on the success of his stratagem . 
For my viscount is caught , he said to himself . 
The Rue d'Anjou Saint Honore hasn't a hundred numbers in it , and even if I'm compelled to go from door to door , my task will soon be accomplished . 
On reaching home he found his mother engaged in knitting , as usual . 
This was the only avocation that her almost complete blindness allowed her to pursue and she followed it constantly . 
Ah ! here you are , Toto , she exclaimed , joyously . 
I didn't expect you so soon . 
Don't you scent a savory smell ? As you must be greatly tired after being up all night , I'm making you a stew . 
As customary when he returned , Chupin embraced the good woman with the respectful tenderness which had so surprised M. Fortunat . 
You are always kind , said he , but , unfortunately , I can't remain to dine with you . 
That's true , mamma but business , you see business . 
The worthy woman shook her head . 
Always business ! she exclaimed . 
Yes when a fellow hasn't ten thousand francs a year . 
You have become a worker , Toto , and that makes me very happy but you are too eager for money , and that frightens me . 
That's to say , you fear I shall do something dishonest . 
for an old pair of checked trousers , a black blouse , and a glazed cap . 
And when he had finished , and given a peculiar turn to his hair , no one would have recognized him . 
It was the old Chupin come to life once more Toto Chupin as he had appeared before his conversion . 
And as he took a last look in the little glass hanging over the table , he was himself astonished at the transformation . 
Ah ! he muttered , I was a sorry looking devil in those days . 
You have changed your clothes , Toto , she remarked . 
But why have you put on your blouse , my son ? Although accustomed to his mother's remarkable quickness of perception , he was amazed . 
Still he did not think of denying it . 
She would only have to extend her hand to prove that he was telling a falsehood . 
The blind woman's usually placid face had become stern . 
So it is necessary to disguise yourself , she said , gravely . 
But , mother Hush , my son ! When a man doesn't wish to be recognized , he's evidently doing something he's ashamed of . 
Ever since your employer came here , you have been concealing something from me . 
The blind woman was preaching to a convert for during the past three days , M. Fortunat had shown himself in such a light that Chupin had secretly resolved to change his employer . 
I promise you I'll leave him , mother , he declared , so you may be quite easy in mind . 
Very well but now , at this moment , where are you going ? There was only one way of completely reassuring the good woman , and that was to tell her all . 
Chupin did so with absolute frankness . 
Ah , well ! she said , when the narrative was finished . 
Your employer's intentions are good now but they WERE criminal when he ordered you to follow Madame d'Argeles . 
Poor woman ! She had sacrificed herself for her son , she had concealed herself from him , and you were working to betray her . 
Chupin blew his nose so loudly that the window panes rattled this was his way of repressing his emotion whenever it threatened to overcome him . 
And if ever I set my foot in such a mess again , I hope some one will cut it off . 
But for this once For this once , you may go , Toto I give my consent . 
He went off with a lighter heart and on reaching the Rue d'Anjou he immediately began his investigations . 
They were not successful at first . 
At every house where he made inquiries nobody had any knowledge of the Viscount de Coralth . 
He had visited half the buildings in the street , when he reached one of the handsomest houses , in front of which stood a cart laden with plants and flowers . 
As soon as the cart was emptied , it drove away , whereupon Chupin stepped forward , and addressing the concierge , asked Does the Viscount de Coralth live here ? Yes . 
What do you want with him ? Having foreseen this question , Chupin had prepared a reply . 
I certainly don't come to call on him , he answered . 
My reason for inquiring is this just now , as I passed near the Madeleine , a very elegant lady called me , and said 'M . 
de Coralth lives in the Rue d'Anjou , but I've forgotten the number . 
Profiting by his old Parisian experience , Chupin had chosen such a clever excuse that both his listeners heartily laughed . 
Chupin was about to retire with a bow , when the concierge stopped him . 
However any signs of satisfaction would have seemed singular under the circumstances , and so he sulkily replied A glass of wine ! you had better say two . 
Well , I'll say a whole bottleful . 
my boy , if that suits you any better , replied the servant , with the charming good nature so often displayed by people who are giving other folk's property away . 
Then I'm at your service ! exclaimed Chupin . 
And , loading himself with a host of flower pots as skilfully as if he had been accustomed to handling them all his life , he added Now , lead the way . 
The valet and the concierge preceded him with empty hands , of course and , on reaching the second floor , they opened a door , and said This is the place . 
Chupin had expected to find that M. de Coralth's apartments were handsomer than his own in the Faubourg Saint Denis but he had scarcely imagined such luxury as pervaded this establishment . 
The chandeliers seemed marvels in his eyes and the sumptuous chairs and couches eclipsed M. Fortunat's wonderful sofa completely . 
So he no longer amuses himself with petty rascalities , thought Chupin , as he surveyed the rooms . 
Monsieur's working on a grand scale now . 
Decidedly this mustn't be allowed to continue . 
Under the surveillance of the concierge and the valet he was allowed to visit the whole apartments . 
Everything was beautiful , sumptuous and magnificent , and Chupin admired , though he did not envy , this luxury . 
He said to himself that , if ever he became rich , his establishment should be quite different . 
He would have preferred rather more simplicity , a trifle less satin , velvet , hangings , mirrors and gilding . 
He also displayed his master's swords for Monsieur le Vicomte handled side arms as adroitly as pistols . 
He took a lesson every day from one of the best fencing masters in Paris and his duels had always terminated fortunately . 
He also showed the viscount's blue velvet dressing gown , his fur trimmed slippers , and even his elaborately embroidered night shirts . 
But it was the dressing room that most astonished and stupefied Chupin . 
Never had he seen in one collection such a variety of steel and silver instruments , knives , pincers , scissors , and files . 
One might think oneself in a chiropodist's , or a dentist's establishment , remarked Chupin to the servant . 
Does your master use all these every day ? Certainly , or rather twice a day morning and evening at his toilette . 
Chupin expressed his feelings with a grimace and an exclamation of mocking wonder . 
Ah , well ! he must have a clean skin , he said . 
Chupin was therefore obliged to conclude that the flowers had been sent here by a baroness who possessed certain rights in the establishment . 
But who was she ? He was manoeuvering cleverly in the hope of ascertaining this point , when a carriage was heard driving into the courtyard below . 
Monsieur must have returned ! exclaimed the valet , darting to the window . 
Chupin also ran to look out , and saw a very elegant blue lined brougham , drawn by a superb horse , but he did not perceive the viscount . 
to a glass of wine , to acknowledge their kindness in assisting me . 
Fearing recognition , Chupin hid his face as much as possible but M. de Coralth did not pay the slightest attention to him . 
There was a dark frown on his handsome , usually smiling countenance , and his hair was in great disorder . 
Evidently enough , something had greatly annoyed him . 
I am going out again , he remarked to his valet , but first of all I must write two letters which you must deliver immediately . 
He passed into the drawing room as he spoke , and Florent scarcely waited till the door was closed before uttering an oath . 
May the devil take him ! he exclaimed . 
Here he sets me on the go again . 
It is five o'clock , too , and I have an appointment in half an hour . 
A sudden hope quickened the throbbings of Chupin's heart . 
Chupin's appearance must have inspired confidence , for the servant replied Well I don't refuse but we'll see . 
The viscount did not spend much time in writing he speedily reappeared holding two letters which he flung upon the table , saying One of these is for the baroness . 
You must deliver it into HER hands or into the hands of her maid there will be no answer . 
You will afterward take the other to the person it is addressed to , and you must wait for an answer which you will place on my writing table and make haste . 
So saying , the viscount went off as he had entered on the run and a moment later , his brougham was heard rolling out of the courtyard . 
Florent was crimson with rage . 
Naturally no one can execute that commission but myself . 
That's true ! replied Chupin but how about the other ? The valet had not yet examined the second letter . 
He now took it from the table , and glanced at the address . 
If it hadn't been for you , I should have missed a dinner with some very charming ladies . 
But , above all , don't loiter on the way . 
I don't mind paying your omnibus fare if you like . 
And you heard him say there would be an answer . 
You can give it to Moulinet , and in exchange , he'll give you fifteen sous for your trouble , and six sous for your omnibus fare . 
Besides , if you can extract anything from the party the letter's intended for , you are quite welcome to it . 
Agreed , sir ! Grant me time enough to give an answer to the lady who is waiting at the Madeleine , and I'm on my way . 
Here it is , said the valet , handing it to Chupin . 
But as the latter glanced at the address he turned deadly pale , and his eyes almost started from their sockets . 
For this is what he read Madame Paul . 
Great as was his self control , his emotion was too evident to escape notice . 
What's the matter with you ? asked the concierge and the valet in the same breath . 
What ! you'd only give me fifteen sous to measure such a distance as that ! Why , it isn't a walk it's a journey ! His explanation was accepted without demur . 
His listeners thought he was only taking advantage of the need they had of his services as was perfectly natural under the circumstances . 
What ! So you are dissatisfied ! cried the valet . 
Very well ! you shall have thirty sous but be off ! So I will , at once , replied Chupin . 
And , imitating the whistle of a locomotive with wonderful perfection , he darted away at a pace which augured a speedy return . 
However , when he was some twenty yards from the house he stopped short , glanced around him , and espying a dark corner slipped into it . 
That fool in the red waistcoat will be coming out to take the letter to that famous baroness , he thought . 
I'm here , and I'll watch him and see where he goes . 
I should like to find out the name of the kind and charitable lady who watches over his brigand of a master with such tender care . 
The day and the hour were in his favor . 
Night was coming on , hastened by a thick fog the street lamps were not yet lighted , and as it was Sunday most of the shops were closed . 
It grew dark so rapidly that Chupin was scarcely able to recognize Florent when he at last emerged from the house . 
It is true that he looked altogether unlike the servant in the red waist coat . 
As he had the key to the wardrobe containing his master's clothes , he did not hesitate to use them whenever an opportunity offered . 
Fine doings , indeed ! growled Chupin as he started in pursuit . 
My servants sha'n't serve me in that way if I ever have any . 
But he paused in his soliloquy , and prudently hid himself under a neighboring gateway . 
The gorgeous Florent was ringing at the door of one of the most magnificent mansions in the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque . 
The door was opened , and he went in . 
Ah ! ah ! thought Chupin , he hadn't far to go . 
The viscount and the baroness are shrewd . 
Thank you , monsieur , replied Chupin , gravely . 
I inquired , because I think of buying a house And repeating the name of Trigault several times to impress it upon his memory he darted off on his errand . 
It might be supposed that his unexpected success had delighted him , but , on the contrary , it rendered him even more exacting . 
The letter he carried burned his pocket like a red hot iron . 
Madame Paul , he muttered , that must be the rascal's wife . 
First , Paul is his Christian name secondly , I've been told that his wife keeps a tobacco shop so the case is plain . 
But the strangest thing about it is that this husband and wife should write to each other , when I fancied them at dagger's ends . 
Chupin would have given a pint of his own blood to know the contents of the missive . 
The idea of opening it occurred to him , and it must be confessed that it was not a feeling of delicacy that prevented him . 
He was deterred by a large seal which had been carefully affixed , and which would plainly furnish evidence if the letter were tampered with . 
Thus Chupin was punished for Florent's faults , for this seal was the viscount's' invariable precaution against his servant's prying curiosity . 
So our enterprising youth could only read and re read the superscription and smell the paper , which was strongly scented with verbena . 
He fancied that there was some mysterious connection between this letter intended for M. de Coralth's wife and the missive sent to the baroness . 
However , his efforts to solve the mystery did not interfere with the free use of his limbs , and he soon found himself on the Quai de la Seine . 
Here I am , he muttered . 
I've come more quickly than an omnibus . 
The Quai de la Seine is a broad road , connecting the Rue de Flandres with the canal de l'Ourcq . 
On the left hand side it is bordered with miserable shanties interspersed with some tiny shops , and several huge coal depots . 
On the right hand side that next to the canal there are also a few provision stores . 
The Viscount must certainly have made a mistake , thought Chupin there is no such shop on the Quai . 
He was wrong , however for after passing the Rue de Soissons he espied the red lantern of a tobacco shop , glimmering through the fog . 
Having almost reached the goal , Chupin slackened his pace . 
He approached the shop very cautiously and peered inside , deeming it prudent to reconnoitre a little before he went in . 
And certainly there was nothing to prevent a prolonged scrutiny . 
The night was very dark , the quay deserted . 
No one was to be seen not a sound broke the stillness . 
That scoundrel's wife must have less than a hundred thousand a year if she takes up her abode here ! thought Chupin . 
And , in fact , nothing could be more repulsive than the tenement in which Madame Paul had installed herself . 
If I lived here , I certainly shouldn't feel quite at ease on a windy day , continued Chupin , sotto voce . 
The shop itself was of a fair size , but most wretched in its appointments , and disgustingly dirty . 
The floor was covered with that black and glutinous coal dust which forms the soil of the Quai de la Seine . 
An auctioneer would have sold the entire stock and fixtures for a few shillings . 
As Chupin compared this vile den with the viscount's luxurious abode , his blood fairly boiled in his veins . 
He ought to be shot for this , if for nothing else , he muttered through his set teeth . 
To let his wife die of starvation here ! For it was M. de Coralth's wife who kept this shop . 
Chupin , who had seen her years before , recognized her now as she sat behind her counter , although she was cruelly changed . 
That's her , he murmured . 
He had used her maiden name in speaking of her . 
Everything about her person bespoke terrible reverses , borne without dignity . 
Even if she had struggled at first , it was easy to see that she struggled no longer . 
Her attire her torn and soiled silk dress , and her dirty cap revealed thorough indolence , and that morbid indifference which at times follows great misfortunes with weak natures . 
Such is life , thought Chupin , philosophically . 
If people didn't clear the road it was so much the worse for them ! In those times Paris was like some great shop where she could select whatever she chose . 
She said 'I want this , and she got it . 
And this time her eyes , instead of turning to the open door , were fixed on a part of the shop directly opposite her . 
Is there some one there as well , then ? Chupin wondered . 
The sight of this child increased Chupin's indignation . 
So there's a child ? he growled . 
With this threat he brusquely entered the shop . 
What do you wish , sir ? asked the woman . 
Nothing I bring you a letter , madame . 
A letter for me ! You must be mistaken . 
Excuse me aren't you Madame Paul ? Yes . 
Then this is for you . 
And he handed her the missive which Florent had confided to his care . 
Madame Paul took hold of it with some hesitation , eying the messenger suspiciously meanwhile but , on seeing the handwriting , she uttered a cry of surprise . 
And , turning toward the open door , she called , M. Mouchon ! M. Mouchon ! It's from him it's from my husband from Paul . 
Ah , well ! my dear child , he said , in an oily voice , what was I telling you just now ? Everything comes to those who know how to wait . 
However she had already broken the seal , and she was now reading the letter eagerly , clapping her hands with delight as she finished its perusal . 
He consents ! she exclaimed . 
And when they were adjusted , the light was so dim that it took him at least three minutes more to decipher the missive . 
Chupin had spent this time in scrutinizing in appraising the man , as it were . 
What is this venerable gentleman doing here ? he thought . 
He's a middle class man , that's evident from his linen . 
He's married there's a wedding ring on his finger he has a daughter , for the ends of his necktie are embroidered . 
He lives in the neighborhood , for , well dressed as he is , he wears a cap . 
But what was he doing there in that back room in the dark ? Meanwhile M. Mouchon had finished reading the letter . 
What did I tell you ? he said complacently . 
Yes , you were right ! answered Madame Paul as she took up the letter and read it again with her eyes sparkling with joy . 
And now what shall I do ? she asked . 
Wait , shall I not ? No , no ! exclaimed the elderly gentleman , in evident dismay . 
You must strike the iron while it's hot . 
But he promises me To promise and to keep one's promises are two different things . 
Tell him But he stopped short , calling her attention with a gesture to the messenger , whose eyes were glittering with intense curiosity . 
Thereupon she followed the old gentleman into the adjoining room , and closed the door . 
He was certain now that he knew the contents of the letter as perfectly as if he had read it . 
M. de Coralth's anger , and his order to make haste , were both explained . 
Moreover , Chupin distinctly saw what connection there was between the letter to the baroness and the letter to Madame Paul . 
He understood that one was the natural consequence of the other . 
Deserted by her husband , Madame Paul had at last become weary of poverty and privations . 
If you refuse , I shall urge my claims , and ruin you . 
Yes , she had evidently written that . 
It might not be the precise text but no doubt it was the purport of her letter . 
On receiving it , Coralth had become alarmed . 
He knew only too well that if his wife made herself known and revealed his past , it would be all over with him . 
But he had no money . 
Charming young men like the Viscount de Coralth never have any money on hand . 
This was no doubt the case , and yet there was one circumstance which puzzled Chupin exceedingly . 
In former years , he had heard it asserted that Mademoiselle Flavie was the very personification of pride , and that she adored her husband even to madness . 
The plan isn't hers , said Chupin to himself , after a moment's reflection . 
It's probably the work of that stout old gentleman . 
There was a means of verifying his suspicions , for on returning into the adjoining room , Madame Paul had not taken her son with her . 
He was still sitting on the muddy floor of the shop , playing with his dilapidated horse . 
Come here , my little fellow , said he . 
The child rose , and timidly approached , his eyes dilating with distrust and astonishment . 
The poor boy's repulsive uncleanliness was a terrible charge against the mother . 
Did she no longer love her own offspring ? The untidiness of sorrow and poverty has its bounds . 
A long time must have passed since the child's face and hands had been washed , and his soiled clothes were literally falling to rags . 
Still , he was a handsome little fellow , and seemed fairly intelligent , in spite of his bashfulness . 
He was very light haired , and in features he was extremely like M. de Coralth . 
Do you know your father ? No. Doesn't your mother ever talk to you about him ? Oh , yes ! And what does she say ? That he's rich very rich . 
Doesn't your papa ever come to see you ? insisted Chupin . 
Why ? Mamma is very poor . 
And wouldn't you like to go and see him ? I don't know . 
But he'll come some day , and take us away with him to a large house . 
We shall be all right , then and he will give us a deal of money and pretty dresses , and I shall have plenty of toys . 
Satisfied on this point , Chupin , pushed his investigations farther . 
And do you know this old gentleman who is with your mamma in the other room ? Oh , yes ! that's Mouchon . 
And who's Mouchon ? He's the gentleman who owns that beautiful garden at the corner of the Rue Riquet , where there are such splendid grapes . 
I'm going with him to get some . 
Does he often come to see you ? Every evening . 
He always has goodies in his pocket for mamma and me . 
Why does he sit in that back room without any light ? Oh , he says that the customers mustn't see him . 
It would have been an abominable act to continue this examination , and make this child the innocent accuser of his own mother . 
Chupin felt conscience smitten even now . 
So he kissed the cleanest spot he could find on the boy's face , and set him on the floor again , saying , Go and play . 
The child had revealed his mother's character with cruel precision . 
What had she told him about his father ? That he was rich , and that , in case he returned , he would give them plenty of money and fine clothes . 
The woman's nature stood revealed in all its deformity . 
Chupin had good cause to feel proud of his discernment all his suppositions had been confirmed . 
He had read Mouchon's character at a glance . 
So he's paying his court to Madame Paul , thought Chupin . 
Isn't it shameful ? The old villain ! he might at least give her enough to eat ! So far his preoccupation had made him forget his wine and his cigar . 
He emptied the glass at a single draught , but it proved far more difficult to light the cigar . 
Zounds ! this is a non combustible , he growled . 
When I arrive at smoking ten sous cigars , I sha'n't come here to buy them . 
She seemed greatly agitated her anxiety was unmistakable . 
I can't decide , she was saying to Mouchon , whose figure Chupin could only dimly distinguish in the darkness . 
If I send this letter , I must forever renounce all hope of my husband's return . 
Whatever happens , he will never forgive me . 
He can't treat you worse than he does now , at all events , replied the old gentleman . 
Besides , a gloved cat has never caught a mouse yet . 
The man who wants his dog to love him , beats it and , besides , when the wine is drawn , one must drink it . 
This singular logic seemed to decide her . 
She handed the letter to Chupin , and drawing a franc from her pocket she offered it to him . 
This is for your trouble , she said . 
He involuntarily held out his hand to take the money , but quickly withdrew it , exclaiming No , thank you keep it . 
And , thereupon , he left the shop . 
Chupin's mother his poor good mother , as he called her would certainly have felt proud and delighted at her son's disinterestedness . 
That very morning , he had refused the ten francs a day that M. Fortunat had offered him , and this evening he declined the twenty sous proffered him by Madame Paul . 
It is only just to say that money had never given him a feeling of satisfaction at all comparable with that which he now experienced . 
By becoming the instrument of Pascal Ferailleur's salvation he would , in some measure , atone for the crime he had committed years before . 
Chupin's mind was so busily occupied with these thoughts that he reached the Rue d'Anjou and M. de Coralth's house almost before he was aware of it . 
To his great surprise , the concierge and his wife were not alone . 
Florent was there , taking coffee with them . 
The valet had divested himself of his borrowed finery , and had donned his red waistcoat again . 
He seemed to be in a savage humor and his anger was not at all strange under the circumstances . 
In his despair he had returned home to seek consolation in the society of his friend the concierge . 
Have you the answer ? he asked . 
M. de Coralth had returned . 
M. de Coralth seemed to breathe more freely . 
And the other party ? he inquired . 
Gave me this for monsieur . 
Come and undress me I must be up early to morrow morning . 
This remark was not lost upon Chupin , and at seven o'clock the next morning he mounted guard at M. de Coralth's door . 
He perceived M. Wilkie leave the house with his clothes in disorder , and subsequently he saw the viscount emerge . 
He followed him , first to the house of the Marquis de Valorsay , and afterward to M. Wilkie's rooms , where he remained till nearly daybreak . 
I have not been as successful , he remarked , when Chupin's story was ended . 
The General had decamped early in the morning to try his horses and his carriages , announcing , moreover , that he would breakfast at the club . 
And as soon as her breakfast was concluded , Madame de Fondege had hurried off to her dressmaker's , warning the household that she would not return before dinner time . 
Jodon's and thence to the Marquis de Valorsay's . 
An empty cab was passing as she left the house , so she hailed it and got in . 
The step she was about to take cost her a terrible effort . 
Several circumstances combined to reassure her . 
M. Fortunat knew her already , since he was the agent whom the Count de Chalusse had employed to carry on the investigations which had resulted in her discovery at the foundling asylum . 
However , her heart beat more quickly , and she felt that she was turning pale when , at Madame Dodelin's invitation , she at last entered M. Fortunat's private office . 
She took in the room and its occupants with a single glance . 
The handsome appointments of the office surprised her , for she had expected to see a den . 
Still , no sign of her agitation was perceptible on her countenance . 
Your letter reached me , mademoiselle , he replied , and I was expecting you flattered and honored beyond expression by your confidence . 
My door , indeed , was closed to any one but you . 
Marguerite took the proffered seat , and there was a moment's silence . 
But weary at last of this fruitless delay , she exclaimed I have come , monsieur , to confer with you respecting certain matters which require the most profound secrecy . 
Chupin understood her , for he blushed to the tips of his ears , and started as if to leave the room . 
But his employer detained him with a gesture . 
Remain , Victor , he said kindly , and , turning to Mademoiselle Marguerite , he added You have no indiscretion to fear from this worthy fellow , mademoiselle . 
He knows everything , and he has already been actively at work and with the best result on your behalf . 
I don't understand you , sir , replied the girl . 
I have already taken your business in hand , mademoiselle , said he . 
An hour after the receipt of your letter I began the campaign . 
But I had not told you What you wished of me that's true . 
Marguerite sprang to her feet , at once agitated and alarmed . 
How did you know this ? she exclaimed . 
Ah ! nothing could be more simple , he answered , in much the same tone as a conqueror might assume to explain his feat . 
It is part of my profession to penetrate the intentions of persons who deign to honor me with their confidence . 
So my surmises are correct at least you have not said the contrary ? She had said nothing . 
Meanwhile , delighted by the supposed effect he had produced , he recklessly continued Reserve your amazement for what I am about to disclose , for I have made several important discoveries . 
It must have been your good angel who inspired you with the idea of coming to me . 
You would have shuddered if you had realized the dangers that threatened you . 
But now you have nothing to fear I am watching . 
I am here , and I hold in my hand all the threads of the abominable intrigue for ruining you . 
For it is you , your person , and your fortune that are imperilled . 
It was solely on your account that M. Ferailleur was attacked . 
And I can tell you the names of the scoundrels who ruined him . 
The crime originated with the person who had the most powerful interest in the matter the Marquis de Valorsay . 
His agent was a scoundrel who is generally known as the Viscount de Coralth but Chupin here can tell you his real name and his shameful past . 
You preferred M. Ferailleur , hence it was necessary to put him out of the way . 
M. de Chalusse had promised your hand to the Marquis de Valorsay . 
This marriage was Valorsay's only resource the plank that might save the drowning man . 
People fancy he is rich but he is ruined . 
Yes , ruined completely , irretrievably . 
He was in such desperate straits that he had almost determined to blow his brains out before the hope of marrying you entered his mind . 
Ah ! thought Chupin , my employer is well under way . 
This was indeed the case . 
The name of Valorsay was quite sufficient to set all M. Fortunat's bile in motion . 
All thought of his ex client irritated him beyond endurance . 
Unfortunately for him , however , his anger in the present instance had ruined his plans . 
He had intended to take Mademoiselle Marguerite by surprise , to work upon her imagination , to make her talk without saying anything himself , and to remain master of the situation . 
But on the contrary he had revealed everything and he did not discover this until it was too late to retrieve his blunder . 
How the Marquis de Valorsay has kept his head above water is a wonder to me , he continued . 
His creditors have been threatening to sue him for more than six months . 
How he has been able to keep them quiet since M. de Chalusse's death , I cannot understand . 
Completely mistress of herself , Mademoiselle Marguerite listened with an impassive face . 
I know all this , she replied , in a frigid tone . 
What ! you know Yes but there is one thing that baffles my powers of comprehension . 
I have asked myself the same question , he replied , and I think I have found an answer . 
And the marquis could urge this claim if he became my husband ? Certainly he could . 
M. Fortunat explained M. de Valorsay's conduct exactly as the old magistrate had done . 
However , Mademoiselle Marguerite discreetly refrained from committing herself . 
Perhaps you are right , she remarked , but it is necessary to prove the truth of your assertion . 
I can prove that Valorsay hasn't a shilling , and that he has lived for a year by expedients which render him liable to arrest and prosecution at any time . 
I can prove that he deceived M. de Chalusse as to his financial position . 
I can prove that he conspired with M. de Coralth to ruin your lover . 
And to do them , rejoined M. Fortunat , quickly . 
I never promise what I cannot perform . 
A man should never touch a pen when he is meditating any evil act . 
Of course , no one is fool enough to write down his infamy in detail . 
But a man cannot always be on the qui vive . 
There will be a word in one letter , a sentence in another , an allusion in a third . 
And by combining these words , phrases , and allusions , one may finally discover the truth . 
He suddenly checked himself , warned of his fresh imprudence by the expression on Mademoiselle Marguerite's face . 
Hit ! he thought hit just in the bull's eye . 
Zounds ! there's a woman for you ! She has beaten the guv'nor on every point . 
M. Fortunat was so taken by surprise that he made no attempt to deny his guilt . 
Upon my word , I see nothing so very bad about that ! It is not a strictly honest proceeding , perhaps , but it is done every day . 
The fathers in law are deceived , or the husband , or the wife , and sometimes all of them together . 
But when I discovered this scheme for mining M. Ferailleur , I cried 'halt ! My conscience revolted at that . 
Dishonor an innocent man ! It was base , cowardly , outrageous ! And not being able to prevent this infamous act , I swore that I would avenge it . 
M. Fortunat cast a withering look at his clerk , but the mischief was done denial was useless . 
He seemed fated to blunder in this affair . 
Well , yes , he declared , it's true . 
Valorsay HAS defrauded me , and I have sworn to have my revenge . 
I won't rest until I see him ruined . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was partially reassured , for she understood his zeal now . 
Her scorn for the man was only increased but she was convinced that he would serve her faithfully . 
I like this much better , said she . 
It is better to have no concealment . 
You desire M. de Valorsay's ruin . 
I desire the rehabilitation of M. Ferailleur . 
So our interests are in common . 
But before acting in this matter , we must know M. Ferailleur's wishes . 
And why ? Because no one knows what has become of him . 
When the desire for revenge first took possession of me , I at once thought of him . 
I procured his address , and went to the Rue d'Ulm . 
But he had gone away . 
The very day after his misfortune , M. Ferailleur sold his furniture and went away with his mother . 
I am aware of that , and I have come to ask you to search for him . 
To discover his hiding place will be only child's play to you . 
Do you suppose I haven't thought of this ? replied M. Fortunat . 
Why , I spent all day yesterday searching for him . 
Well , do you know where she drove ? To the Western railway station . 
I am sure of this , and I know she told a porter there that her destination was London . 
M. Ferailleur is now en route for America , and we shall never hear of him again ! Mademoiselle Marguerite shook her head . 
You are mistaken , sir , said she . 
There can be no mistake about what I have just told you . 
I don't question the result of your investigations , but appearances are deceitful . 
I thoroughly understand M. Ferailleur's character , and he is not the man to be crushed by an infamous calumny . 
He may seem to fly , he may disappear , he may conceal himself for a time , but it is only to make his vengeance more certain . 
He has not left Paris I am sure of it . 
M. Fortunat was not convinced . 
In his opinion this was only sentiment and rubbish . 
He stepped forward with his eyes sparkling with enthusiasm , and in a feeling voice he exclaimed I understand your idea ! Yes , M. Ferailleur is in Paris . 
And I shall be unworthy of the name of Chupin , if I don't find him for you in less than a fortnight ! XII . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite knew Pascal Ferailleur . 
And still she did not know the extent of Pascal's misfortune . 
And it was still to his mother the incomparable guardian of his honor that he owed his resolution on the morning he applied to Baron Trigault . 
And his courage met with its first reward . 
He was no longer the same man when he left the princely mansion which he had entered with his heart so full of anguish . 
At least , he would no longer have to struggle alone . 
An honest and experienced man , powerful by reason of his reputation , his connections and his fortune , had promised him his help . 
Madame Ferailleur was just returning home when he arrived , which surprised him considerably , for he had not known that she had intended going out . 
The cab she had used was still standing before the door , and she had not had time to take off her shawl and bonnet when he entered the house . 
She uttered a joyful cry on perceiving her son . 
I was not deceived , then , in the worthy man who came to offer us his assistance ? No , certainly not . 
Do what I may , I can never repay him for his generosity and self denial . 
Madame Ferailleur started back , as if she had seen a reptile spring up in her pathway . 
The daughter of the baroness ! she faltered . 
Great Heavens ! It is the truth , mother listen to me . 
Madame Ferailleur's indignation and disgust were none the less evident . 
That woman is a shameless creature , she said , coldly , when her son's narrative was concluded . 
He knew only too well that his mother was right , and yet it wounded him cruelly to hear her speak in this style . 
For the baroness was Marguerite's mother after all . 
So , continued Madame Ferailleur , with increasing indignation , creatures do exist who are destitute even of the maternal instincts of animals . 
I don't excuse infidelity , but I can understand how such a thing is possible . 
The husband who exposes his honor and happiness to such terrible risk , is an imprudent man . 
I could imagine infanticide more easily . 
No , such a woman has no heart , no bowels of compassion . 
The baroness knew that her husband adored her , and hearing of his return she became terrified she lost her senses , he ventured to say in extenuation . 
Would you try to defend her ? exclaimed Madame Ferailleur . 
It is a miracle that she did not perish . 
Where had Madame Ferailleur learned these particulars ? Pascal asked himself this question without being able to answer it . 
I don't understand you , mother , he faltered . 
Then you know nothing of Mademoiselle Marguerite's past life . 
Is it possible she never told you anything about it ? I only know that she has been very unhappy . 
Has she never alluded to the time when she was an apprentice ? She has only told me that she earned her living with her own hands at one time of her life . 
Well , I am better informed on the subject . 
Pascal's amazement was changed to terror . 
You , mother , you ! Yes I I have been to the asylum where she was received and educated . 
Standing opposite his mother with one hand convulsively clutching the back of the chair he was leaning on , Pascal tried to nerve himself for some terrible blow . 
This idea occurred to you so suddenly ! Madame Ferailleur gave an almost imperceptible shrug of the shoulders , as if she were astonished to have to answer such puerile objections . 
It was there that Vantrasson met Mademoiselle Marguerite , and this is why he was so greatly surprised to see her doing the mistress at the Hotel de Chalusse . 
It seemed to Pascal that the throbbing of his heart stopped his breath . 
By a little tact I obtained the Greloux's address from Madame Vantrasson , resumed his mother . 
Then I sent for a cab and drove there at once . 
And you saw them ? Yes thanks to a falsehood which doesn't trouble my conscience much , I succeeded in effecting an entrance , and had an hour's conversation with them . 
His mother's icy tones frightened Pascal . 
Her slowness tortured him , and still he dared not press her . 
They must have been very much attached to Mademoiselle Marguerite , for they were lavish in their protestations of affection when I mentioned her name . 
The husband in particular seemed to regard her with a feeling of something like gratitude . 
And yet , from her own story , I should be willing to swear that she had abused the poor child , and had made a slave of her . 
Tears glittered in Pascal's eyes , but he breathed freely once more . 
As for Vantrasson , resumed Madame Ferailleur , it is certain that he took a violent fancy to his sister's apprentice . 
This man , who has since become an infamous scoundrel , was then only a rake , an unprincipled drunkard and libertine . 
The thought that so vile a rascal as this man Vantrasson should have dared to insult Marguerite made Pascal frantic with indignation . 
But in this they lied to me . 
For they saw her at least once , and that was on the day she brought them twenty thousand francs , which proved the nucleus of their fortune . 
They did not mention this fact , however . 
Dear Marguerite ! murmured Pascal , dear Marguerite ! And then aloud But where did you learn these last details , mother ? he inquired . 
At the asylum where Mademoiselle Marguerite was brought up , and there , too , I only heard words of praise . 
'Never , said the superior , 'have I had a more gifted , sweeter tempered or more attractive charge . 
Well , mother ! he exclaimed , well , is it strange that I love her ? Madame Ferailleur made no reply , and a sorrowful apprehension seized hold of him . 
The right ! Ah , you are unjust , mother . 
Unjust ! Haven't I faithfully reported all that was told me , although I knew it would only increase your passion ? That's true , but Madame Ferailleur sadly shook her head . 
You heard Madame Vantrasson's ignoble allegations . 
It has been said that she was the mistress , not the daughter , of the Count de Chalusse . 
What does calumny matter ? it will never shake my faith in her . 
The misfortunes which you reproach Marguerite for sanctify her in my eyes . 
But Madame Ferailleur's prejudices were too deeply rooted to be shaken by these arguments . 
I won't discuss this question , my son , she interrupted , but take care . 
By declaring children irresponsible for their mother's faults , you will break the strongest tie that binds a woman to duty . 
On hearing his dearest hopes thus attacked , Pascal was tempted to rebel , and a flood of bitter words rose to his lips . 
However he had strength enough to control himself . 
He felt that it was not his place to reproach his mother or censure her for her opinions . 
On seeing this woman , Pascal was overcome with rage and indignation , and felt a wild desire to annihilate her . 
He knew that she was only a vile slanderer , but she might meet other beings as vile as herself who would be only too glad to believe her falsehoods . 
Engrossed in these gloomy thoughts , Pascal preserved a sullen silence during the repast . 
He ate because his mother filled his plate but if he had been questioned , he could scarcely have told what he was eating . 
And yet , the modest dinner was excellent . 
Madame Vantrasson was really a good cook , and in this first effort in her new situation she had surpassed herself . 
Her vanity as a cordon bleu was piqued because she did not receive the compliments she expected , and which she felt she deserved . 
Madame Ferailleur was as silent as her son , and seemed equally anxious to finish with the repast . 
I will attend to the rest . 
Pascal drew a long breath as if relieved of a heavy weight . 
He really feared he should not be able to resist his desire to strangle her . 
Let us say no more on the subject , she remarked . 
I have done so in this instance , and I am going perhaps to give you a convincing proof of it . 
Madame Ferailleur drew her spectacles from their case , and , after adjusting them , she began to read . 
With his elbows on the table , and his head resting upon his hands , Pascal eagerly watched his mother , anxious to read her impressions on her face . 
She had not expected these letters would express such nobility of sentiment , an energy no whit inferior to her own , and even an echo of her own prejudices . 
For this strange young girl shared Madame Ferailleur's rather bigoted opinions . 
Again and again she asked herself if her birth and past had not created an impassable abyss between Pascal and herself . 
Now , she resumed , wait before you censure your mother . 
So saying , she rose , opened a drawer , and taking from it a torn and crumpled scrap of paper , she handed it to her son , exclaiming Read this attentively . 
He had scarcely been in his right mind the evening he received it , but now he was enjoying the free exercise of all his faculties . 
He no sooner glanced at the note than he sprang up , and in an excited voice , exclaimed , Marguerite never wrote this ! The strange discovery seemed to stupefy him . 
I was mad , raving mad ! he muttered . 
The fraud is palpable , unmistakable . 
And what shall I say of these mistakes in spelling ? he resumed . 
You noticed them , of course , mother ? command is written with a single 'm , and supplicate with one 'p . 
These are certainly not mistakes that we can attribute to haste ! Ignorance is proved since the blunder is always the same . 
The forger is evidently in the habit of omitting one of the double letters . 
Madame Ferailleur listened with an impassive face . 
And these mistakes are all the more inexcusable since this letter is only a copy , she observed , quietly . 
What ? Yes a verbatim copy . 
Yesterday evening , while I was examining it for the twentieth time , it occurred to me that I had read some portions of it before . 
Where , and under what circumstances ? It was a puzzle which kept me awake most of the night . 
But this morning I suddenly remembered a book which I had seen in the hands of the workmen at the factory , and which I had often laughed over . 
So , while I was out this morning I entered a book shop , and purchased the volume . 
That's it , there on the corner of the mantel shelf . 
Pascal obeyed , and noticed with surprise that the work was entitled , The Indispensable and Complete Letter writer , for Both Sexes , in Every Condition of Life . 
Now turn to the page I have marked , said Madame Ferailleur . 
He did so , and read . 
Letter from a young lady who has promised her dying father to renounce the man she loves , and to bestow her hand upon another . 
Doubt was no longer possible . 
Line for line and word for word , the mistakes in spelling excepted , the note was an exact copy of the stilted prose of the Indispensable Letter writer . 
It seemed to Pascal as if the scales had suddenly fallen from his eyes , and that he could now understand the whole intrigue which had been planned to separate him from Marguerite . 
So , in spite of some short lived doubts , his love had been more clear sighted than reason , and stronger than appearances . 
Appearances may indicate the contrary , but I am right . 
Certain circumstances , which had previously seemed contradictory , now strengthened this belief . 
As for the letter itself , it must have been the work of Madame Leon . 
If he had not already possessed irrefutable proofs of this , the Indispensable Letter writer would have shown it . 
The housekeeper's perturbation when she met him at the garden gate was now explained . 
She was shuddering at the thought that she might be followed and watched , and that Marguerite might appear at any moment , and discover everything . 
I think it would be a good plan to let this poor young girl know that her companion is Valorsay's spy , remarked Madame Ferailleur . 
Pascal was about to approve this suggestion , when a sudden thought deterred him . 
And then , farewell to the success of my plans . 
Then you prefer to leave her exposed to these dangers ? Yes , even admitting there is danger , which is by no means certain . 
This was a heroic resolution on Pascal's part , and one which he would have recoiled from the evening before . 
Even his mother's opposition had ceased to alarm him . 
He was busily engaged in perfecting his plan of attack against the marquis . 
It was pure childishness on Pascal's part to doubt Baron Trigault's willingness to agree even with closed eyes to any measures he might propose . 
He ought to have recollected that their interests were identical , that they hated the same men with equal hatred , and that they were equally resolved upon vengeance . 
And certainly the events which had occurred since their last interview had not been of a nature to modify the baron's intentions . 
However , misfortune had rendered Pascal timid and suspicious , and it was not until he reached the baron's house that his fears vanished . 
Will you be kind enough to follow me ? said the servant to whom he handed his card . 
The baron is very busy , but that doesn't matter . 
He gave orders that monsieur should be shown up as soon as he arrived . 
Pascal followed without a word . 
The elegance of this princely abode never varied . 
The same careless , prodigal , regal luxury was apparent everywhere . 
The servants whose name was legion were always passing noiselessly to and fro . 
On his first visit Pascal had only seen the apartments on the ground floor . 
This time his guide remarked that he would take him upstairs to the baron's private room . 
He had only time to step aside , and a lady passed him rapidly , without turning her head , or even deigning to look at him . 
She did not appear more than forty , and she was still very beautiful , with her golden hair dressed high on the back of her head . 
Her costume , brilliant enough in hue to frighten a cab horse , was extremely eccentric in cut but it certainly set off her peculiar style of beauty to admirable advantage . 
That's the baroness , whispered the servant , after she had passed . 
Pascal did not need to be told this . 
He had seen her but once , and then only for a second but it had been under such circumstances that he should never forget her so long as he lived . 
And now he understood the strange and terrible impression which had been produced upon him when he saw her first . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was the living prototype of this lady , save as regards the color of her hair . 
And there would have been no difference in this respect had the baroness allowed her locks to retain their natural tint . 
Her hair had been black , like Marguerite's , and black it had remained until she was thirty five , when she bleached it to the fashionable color of the time . 
Pascal had scarcely regained his composure , when the servant opened the door of an immense apartment as large as a handsome suite of rooms , and magnificently furnished . 
Here sat the baron , surrounded by several clerks , who were busily engaged in putting a pile of papers and documents in order . 
This was a favorable omen . 
I called , monsieur began the young man . 
Yes I know I know ! interrupted the baron . 
Come , we must have a talk . 
And , taking Pascal's arm , he led him into his private sanctum , separated from the large apartment by folding doors , which had been removed , and replaced by hangings . 
Once there he indicated by a gesture that they could be heard in the adjoining room , and that it was necessary to speak in a low tone . 
You have no doubt come , said he , for the money I promised that dear Marquis de Valorsay I have it all ready for you here it is . 
So saying , he opened an escritoire , and took out a large roll of bank notes , which he handed to Pascal . 
Here , count it , he added , and see if the amount is correct . 
But Pascal , whose face had suddenly become as red as fire , did not utter a word in reply . 
On receiving this money a new but quite natural thought had entered his mind for the first time . 
What is the matter ? inquired the baron , surprised by this sudden embarrassment . 
What has happened to you ? Nothing , monsieur , nothing ! Only I was asking myself if I ought if I can accept this money . 
Bah ! and why not ? Because if you lend it to M. de Valorsay , it is perhaps lost . 
PERHAPS ! You are polite Yes , monsieur , you are right . 
I ought to have said that it is sure to be lost and hence my embarrassment . 
Is it not solely on my account that you sacrifice a sum which would be a fortune to many men ? Yes . 
I am asking myself if it is right for me to accept such a sacrifice , when it is by no means certain that I shall ever be able to requite it . 
Though the baron had formed a high estimate of Pascal's character , he was astonished and deeply touched by these scruples , and this excessive delicacy of feeling . 
Ah , well , my dear Ferailleur , he said , kindly , don't trouble yourself on this score . 
It's not at your request nor solely on your account that I make this sacrifice . 
Oh ! No I give you my word of honor it isn't . 
After that , Pascal could not demur any further . 
And you must understand , my dear sir , he resumed , that you can employ this sum as you choose , in advancing your interests , which are identical with mine . 
You can give the money to Valorsay at such a time and under such conditions as will best serve your plans . 
Give it to him in an hour or in a month , all at once or in fifty different instalments , as you please . 
Only use it like the rope one ties round a dog's neck before drowning him . 
The keenest penetration was concealed beneath the baron's careless good nature . 
Pascal knew this , and feeling that his protector understood him , he said You overpower me with kindness . 
Nonsense ! You offer me just what I came to ask for . 
But you will allow me to explain my intentions ? It is quite unnecessary , my dear sir . 
Set to work , and don't give yourself the slightest uneasiness about that . 
You may do whatever you like , if you only succeed in unmasking this dear marquis , and Coralth , his worthy acolyte . 
Show me up in whatever light you choose . 
Who will you be in Valorsay's eyes ? Why , Maumejan , one of my business agents , and I can always throw the blame on you . 
And it is the unlucky agent who must object , declare that his employer has no money at his disposal just now , and finally say , 'No . 
Pascal was still disposed to insist , but the baron was obdurate . 
Oh ! enough , enough ! he exclaimed . 
Don't waste precious time in idle discussion . 
The days are only twenty four hours long and as you see , I'm very busy , so busy that I've not touched a card since the day before yesterday . 
I am preparing a delightful surprise for Madame Trigault , my daughter , and my son in law . 
It has been rather a delicate operation , but I flatter myself that I have succeeded finely . 
And he laughed a laugh that was not pleasant to hear . 
I'm determined to have the semblance of these things I'm quite resolved on that . 
Yes , I will have myself treated with deference . 
I'll be petted and coddled and made much of , or else I'll suspend payment . 
I order first class happiness at so much a month . 
If I get it I pay for it if I don't get it , I cut off the supplies . 
When I get extras I pay for them cheerfully , without haggling . 
Follow my example , my old friend , and you'll have a comfortable life . 
And I shall follow his advice , M. Ferailleur , for I am convinced that his theory is sound and practicable . 
I have led this life long enough . 
You do not know into what unworthy hands the Chalusse property is about to fall . 
He was on the point of telling Pascal the story of Madame d'Argeles and M. Wilkie , when he was interrupted by the sound of a lively controversy in the hall . 
Who's taking such liberty in my house ? the baron began . 
That's Kami Bey , said he , the Turk whom I am playing that great game of cards with . 
The devil take him ! He will be sure to force his way in here so we may as well join him , M. Ferailleur . 
He was clad in a black frock coat , buttoned tight to the throat , and he wore a fez . 
This costume gave him the appearance of a chunky bottle , sealed with red wax . 
Kami was no doubt more impudent , more cynical and more arrogant than others of his class . 
He spoke French passably well , but with an abominable accent . 
Here you are at last ! he exclaimed , as the baron entered the room . 
I was becoming very anxious . 
About what , prince ? Why Kami Bey was called prince no one knew , not even the man himself . 
Perhaps it was because the lackey who opened his carriage door on his arrival at the Grand Hotel had addressed him by that title . 
About what ! he repeated . 
You have won more than three hundred thousand francs from me , and I was wondering if you intended to give me the slip . 
The baron frowned , and this time he omitted the title of prince altogether . 
It seems to me , sir , that according to our agreement , we were to play until one of us had won five hundred thousand francs , he said haughtily . 
That's true but we ought to play every day . 
Possibly but I'm very busy just now . 
You will gain considerably by the operation . 
Kami Bey felt that the baron would not tolerate his arrogance , and so with more moderation he exclaimed It isn't strange that I've become suspicious . 
I'm so victimized on every side . 
Because I'm a foreigner and immensely rich , everybody fancies he has a right to plunder me . 
Men , women , hotel keepers and merchants , all unite in defrauding me . 
If I buy pictures , they sell me vile daubs at fabulous prices . 
They ask ridiculous amounts for horses , and then give me worthless , worn out animals . 
Everybody borrows money from me and I'm never repaid . 
I shall be ruined if this sort of thing goes on much longer . 
And be careful , mind for he is exceedingly shrewd . 
Courage and good luck ! Courage ! It was not necessary to recommend that to Pascal . 
He who had triumphed over his despair in the terrible hours , when he had reason to suppose that Marguerite believed him guilty and had abandoned him , could scarcely lack courage . 
So , while hastening to the Marquis de Valorsay's residence , he took stock of his chances , and recapitulated his resources , striving to foresee and remember everything . 
Thus if he failed for he admitted the possibility of defeat , without believing in it he would have no cause to reproach himself . 
Only fools find consolation in saying Who could have foreseen that ? Great minds do foresee . 
And Pascal felt almost certain that he was fully prepared for any emergency . 
The baron's agent could scarcely have a poverty stricken appearance , for contact with millionaires is supposed to procure wealth as surely as proximity to fire insures warmth . 
So he arrayed himself in a suit of black , which was neither too elegant nor too much worn , and donned a broad white necktie . 
He could see only one immediate , decisive chance against him . 
M. de Valorsay might possibly recognize him . 
He thought not , but he was not sure and anxious on this account , he at first decided to disguise himself . 
However , on reflection , he concluded not to do so . 
An imperfect disguise would attract attention and awaken suspicion and could he really disguise his physiognomy ? He was certain he could not . 
Very few men are capable of doing so successfully , even after long experience . 
Only two or three detectives and half a dozen actors possess the art of really changing their lineaments . 
Thus after weighing the pros and cons , Pascal determined to present himself as he was at the marquis's house . 
On approaching M. de Valorsay's residence in the Avenue des Champs Elysees , he slackened his pace . 
The mansion , which stood between a courtyard and a garden , was very large and handsome . 
They were arm in arm , and turned in the direction of the Arc de Triomphe . 
Pascal's heart thrilled with joy . 
Fate favors me ! he said to himself . 
But now I'm safe ! It was with this encouraging thought that he approached the house . 
The marquis is very busy this morning , said the servant to whom Pascal addressed himself at the gate . 
I doubt if he can see you . 
Oh ! said he , that's quite a different matter . 
If you come from Baron Trigault , you will be received with all the respect due to the Messiah . 
I will announce you myself . 
Everything in M. de Valorsay's house , as at the baron's residence , indicated great wealth , and yet a close observer would have detected a difference . 
The luxury of the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque was of a real and substantial character , which one did not find in the Avenue des Champs Elysees . 
Everything in the marquis's abode bore marks of the haste which mars the merest trifle produced at the present age . 
Take a seat here , and I will see where the marquis is , said the servant , as he ushered Pascal into a large drawing room . 
The attention of visitors was at once attracted by the number of gold and silver cups , vases , and statuettes scattered about on side tables and cheffoniers . 
These were indeed the marquis's chief claims to glory , and had cost him at least half of the immense fortune he had inherited . 
However , Pascal did not take much interest in these trophies , so the time of waiting seemed long . 
Valorsay is playing the diplomat , he thought . 
He doesn't wish to appear to be anxious . 
Unfortunately , his servant has betrayed him . 
At last the valet returned . 
The marquis will see you now , monsieur , said he . 
This summons affected Pascal's heart like the first roll of a drum beating the charge . 
But his coolness did not desert him . 
Now is the decisive moment , he thought . 
Heaven grant that he may not recognize me ! And with a firm step he followed the valet . 
M. de Valorsay was seated in the apartment he usually occupied when he remained at home a little smoking room connected with his bedroom . 
He was to all intents busily engaged in examining some sporting journals . 
A bottle of Madeira and a partially filled glass stood near him . 
As the servant announced Monsieur Maumejan ! he looked up and his eyes met Pascal's . 
But his glance did not waver not a muscle of his face moved his countenance retained its usually cold and disdainful expression . 
Evidently he had not the slightest suspicion that the man he had tried to ruin his mortal enemy was standing there before him . 
M. Maumejan , said he , Baron Trigault's agent ? Yes , monsieur Pray be seated . 
I am just finishing here I shall be at leisure in a moment . 
If my blood mounted to my brain , he had thought , I should spring upon him and strangle him ! But no . 
His arteries did not throb more quickly it was with perfect calmness the calmness of a strong nature that he stealthily watched M. de Valorsay . 
If he had seen him a week before he would have been startled by the change which the past few days had wrought in this brilliant nobleman's appearance . 
He was little more than a shadow of his former self . 
And seen at this hour , before placing himself in his valet's hands , before his premature decrepitude had been concealed by the artifices of the toilet , he was really frightful . 
His face was haggard , and his red and swollen eyelids betrayed a long continued want of sleep . 
The fact is , he had suffered terribly during the past week . 
However , the moment which M. de Valorsay had asked for had lengthened into a quarter of an hour , and he had not yet finished his work . 
What the devil is he doing ? wondered Pascal , who was following his enemy's slightest movement with eager curiosity . 
or placed them on a pile before him , first marking certain passages with a red pencil . 
Oh ! pray continue , Monsieur le Marquis , interrupted Pascal . 
Strange to say , I have a little leisure at my command just now . 
I am playing the part of a commentator , he remarked . 
I sold seven of my horses a few days ago , and the purchaser , before paying the stipulated price , naturally required an exact and authentic statement of each animal's performances . 
A gentleman is not so exacting generally . 
These folks are the curse of Paris , for , with but few exceptions , they only use their millions to enrich notorious women , scoundrels , hotel keepers , and jockeys . 
Had he not already been accused of defrauding Domingo's champions by a conspiracy ? At last the marquis heaved a sigh of relief . 
Pascal's presentiments had not deceived him , and he said to himself This is a good thing to know . 
Before this evening I shall look into this affair a little . 
A storm was decidedly gathering over the Marquis de Valorsay's head . 
Did he know it ? Certainly he must have expected it . 
Still he had sworn to stand fast until the end . 
This response had the same effect as a heavy rock falling upon M. de Valorsay's bald pate . 
What ! You haven't this is undoubtedly a joke . 
It is only too serious ! But I had the baron's word . 
Oh ! his word ! I had his solemn promise . 
It is sometimes impossible to keep one's promises , sir . 
The consequences of this disappointment must have been terrible , for the marquis could not maintain his self control . 
Still he strove valiantly to conceal his emotion . 
So , summoning all his energy , he mastered his emotion in some degree , and , instead of appearing desperate , succeeded in looking only irritated and annoyed . 
In short , he resumed , angrily , you have brought no money ! I counted on a hundred thousand francs this morning . 
Nothing ! This is kind on the baron's part ! But probably he doesn't understand the embarrassing position in which he places me . 
Excuse me , Monsieur le Marquis , he understands it so well that , instead of informing you by a simple note . 
he sent me to acquaint you with his sincere regret . 
When I left him an hour ago , he was really disconsolate . 
He was particularly anxious I should tell you that it was not his fault . 
He counted upon the payment of two very large amounts , and both of these have failed him . 
The marquis had now recovered a little from the shock , though he was still very pale . 
He looked at Pascal with evident distrust , for he knew with what sweet excuses well bred people envelope their refusals . 
So the baron is disconsolate , he remarked , in a tone of perceptible irony . 
He is indeed ! Poor baron ! Ah ! I pity him pity him deeply . 
As cold and as unmoved as a statue , Pascal seemed quite unconscious of the effect of the message he had brought quite unconscious of Valorsay's sufferings and self constraint . 
You think I am jesting , monsieur , he said , quietly , but I assure you that the baron is very short of money just now . 
Nonsense ! a man worth seven or eight millions of francs . 
I should say ten millions , at least . 
Then the excuse is all the more absurd . 
Pascal shrugged his shoulders disdainfully . 
It astonishes me , Monsieur le Marquis , to hear YOU speak in this way . 
It is not the magnitude of a man's income that constitutes affluence , but rather the way in which that income is spent . 
In this foolish age , almost all rich people are in arrears . 
What income does the baron derive from his ten millions of francs ? Not more than five hundred thousand . 
A very handsome fortune , no doubt , and I should be more than content with it . 
But the baron gambles , and the baroness is the most elegant in other words , the most extravagant woman in Paris . 
They both of them love luxury , and their establishment is kept up in princely style . 
This excuse might not be true , but it was certainly a very plausible one . 
Had people begun to suspect HIS embarrassment ? Had any rumor of it reached Baron Trigault's ears ? This was what he wished to ascertain . 
Until now , M. de Valorsay had cherished a hope that the loan was only delayed , and the certainty that the decision was final , crushed him . 
My ruin's known , he thought , and feeling that his strength was deserting him , he poured out a brimming glass of Madeira , which he emptied at a single draught . 
The wine lent him fictitious energy . 
He has no business to keep a man in hot water for three days about such a trifle . 
It certainly hurt Pascal to hear these insults heaped upon the baron , and it hurt him all the more since they were entirely due to the course he had personally adopted . 
However , a gesture , even a frown , might endanger the success of his undertaking , so he preserved an impassive countenance . 
I must say that I don't understand your indignation , Monsieur le Marquis , he said , coldly . 
I can see why you might feel annoyed , but why you should fly into a passion Ah ! you don't know began M. de Valorsay , but he stopped short . 
The truth had almost escaped his lips . 
Know what ? inquired Pascal . 
But the marquis was again upon his guard . 
I have a debt that must be paid this evening , at all hazards a sacred obligation in short , a debt of honor . 
A debt of one hundred thousand francs ? No , it is only twenty five thousand . 
If I go to my notary , there will be endless forms to be gone through , and remonstrances without number . 
You ? Yes , I. Before six o'clock this evening ? Certainly . 
A glass of ice water presented to a parched traveller while journeying over the desert sands of Sahara could not impart greater relief and delight than the marquis experienced on hearing Pascal's offer . 
He literally felt that he was restored to life . 
For ruin was inevitable if he did not succeed in obtaining twenty five thousand francs that day . 
If he could procure that amount he might obtain a momentary respite , and to gain time was the main thing . 
Moreover , the offer was a sufficient proof that his financial difficulties were not known . 
Ah ! I have had a fortunate escape , he thought . 
What if I had revealed the truth ! But he was careful to conceal the secret joy that filled his heart . 
He feared lest he might say Yes too quickly , so betray his secret , and place himself at the mercy of the baron's envoy . 
Allow me to say , he exclaimed , that I am not any one's subordinate . 
Trigault is my client , like thirty or forty others nothing more . 
He employs me in certain difficult and delicate negotiations , which I conduct to the best of my ability . 
He pays me , and we are each of us perfectly independent of the other . 
From the look which Valorsay gave Pascal , one would have sworn that he suspected who his visitor really was . 
But such was not the case . 
That worthy gambler has invented this ingenious method of obliging me so as to extort a rate of interest which he would not dare to demand openly . 
And why not ? There have been plenty of such instances . 
interest , plus a small commission . 
These ideas and recollections were of considerable assistance in restoring Valorsay's composure . 
Enough said , then , he answered , lightly . 
But Ah ! so there is a but ! There is always one . 
I must warn you that it will be difficult for me to repay this loan in less than two months . 
This , then , was the time he thought necessary for the accomplishment of his designs . 
That does not matter , replied Pascal , and even if you desire a longer delay That will be unnecessary , thank you ! But there is one thing more . 
I shall charge you the ordinary rates , he answered , six per cent . 
interest , plus one and a half per cent . 
Bah ! Plus the remuneration for my trouble and services . 
And what remuneration will satisfy you ? One thousand francs . 
Is it too much ? If the marquis had retained the shadow of a doubt , it vanished now . 
Ah ! he sneered , that strikes me as a very liberal compensation for your services ! But he would gladly have recalled the sneer when he saw how the agent received it . 
Others may pretend to oblige people merely from motives of friendship , he remarked . 
But I am more honest . 
If I do anything in the way of business , I expect to be paid for it and I vary my terms according to my clients' need . 
It would be impossible to have a fixed price for services like mine . 
When , on two different occasions , I saved a gentleman of your acquaintance from bankruptcy , I asked ten thousand francs the first time , and fifteen thousand the second . 
The day after the wedding he paid me twenty thousand francs . 
I should study your position , and fix my terms according to the magnitude of the peril from which I rescued you . 
There was not a sentence , not a word of this cynical explanation which had not been carefully studied beforehand . 
There was not an expression which was not a tempting bait to the marquis's evil instincts . 
But M de Valorsay made no sign . 
I see that you are a shrewd man , Monsieur Maumejan , said he , and if I am ever in difficulty I shall apply to you . 
Pascal bowed with an air of assumed modesty but he was inwardly jubilant , for he felt that his enemy would certainly fall into the trap which had been set for him . 
And now , when shall I have this money ? inquired the marquis . 
And I need fear no disappointment as in the baron's case ? Certainly not . 
What interest would M. Trigault have in lending you a hundred thousand francs ? None whatever . 
With me it is quite a different thing . 
The profit I'm to realize is your security . 
In business matters distrust your friends . 
Apply to usurers rather than to them . 
Question people who are in difficulties , and ninety five out of a hundred will tell you that their worst troubles have been caused by those who called themselves their best friends . 
They wish to see you , monsieur . 
Though Pascal had armed himself well against any unexpected mischance , he changed color on hearing the name of the worthy housekeeper . 
All is lost if this creature sees and recognizes me ! he thought . 
Fortunately the Marquis was too much engrossed in his own affairs to note the momentary agitation of Baron Trigault's envoy . 
It is strange that I can't have five minutes' peace and quietness , he said . 
I told you that I was at home to no one . 
But Enough ! Let the lady and gentleman wait . 
The thought of passing out through the drawing room filled Pascal with consternation . 
And leading him through his bedroom the marquis conducted him to the staircase , where he even feigned to offer him his hand , saying A speedy return , dear M. Maumejan . 
It is not at the moment of peril that people endure the worst agony it is afterward , when they have escaped it . 
As he went down the staircase , Pascal wiped the cold sweat from his forehead . 
Ah ! it was a narrow escape ! he exclaimed , under his breath . 
He felt proud of the manner in which he had sustained a part so repugnant to his nature . 
He was amazed to find that he could utter falsehoods with such a calm , unblushing face he was astonished at his own audacity . 
And what a success he had achieved ! He felt certain that he had just slipped round M. de Valorsay's neck the noose which would strangle him later on . 
Still he was considerably disturbed by Madame Leon's visit to the marquis . 
What is she doing here with this physician ? he asked himself again and again . 
But he had no leisure to devote to the solution of this enigma . 
Through the baron , he might hope to obtain an interview with Kami Bey and so it was to the baron's house that Pascal directed his steps . 
After the more than cordial reception which the baron had granted him that morning , it was quite natural that the servants should receive him as a friend of the household . 
They would scarcely allow him to explain what he desired . 
A moment later , the baron entered quite breathless from his hurried descent of the staircase . 
Ah ! you have been successful , he exclaimed , on seeing Pascal's face . 
Everything is progressing as favorably as I could wish , Monsieur le Baron , but I must speak with that foreigner whom I met here this morning . 
And in a few words , Pascal explained the situation . 
Providence is certainly on our side , said the baron , thoughtfully . 
Is it possible ? It's a fact . 
I was closeted with him , cards in hand , when they told me you were here . 
Come , we'll go and question him . 
They found the interesting foreigner in a savage mood . 
He had been winning when the servant came for the baron , and he feared that an interruption would change the luck . 
What the devil took you away ? he exclaimed , with that coarseness of manner which was habitual with him , and which the flatterers around him styled form . 
A man should no more be disturbed when he's playing than when he's eating . 
Come , come , prince , said the baron , good naturedly , don't be angry , and I'll give you three hours instead of two . 
But I have a favor to ask of you . 
It's purely from force of habit , said he . 
Cheated ! it was worse than highway robbery . 
Would it be indiscreet to ask you by whom you have been defrauded ? Kami Bey's purple cheeks became a trifle pale . 
Hum ! said he , in an altered tone of voice , that is a delicate question . 
When a man has an income of a million , he doesn't care to expose himself to the dangers of a duel . 
But , prince , in France folks don't do a scoundrel the honor to cross swords with him . 
That's just what my steward , who is a Frenchman , told me but no matter . 
Besides , I am not sufficiently sure of the man's guilt to noise it abroad . 
I have no positive proofs as yet . 
He was evidently terribly frightened , and the first thing to be done was to reassure him . 
Come , insisted the baron , tell us the man's name . 
This gentleman here pointing to Pascal is one of my most esteemed friends . 
I will answer for him as I would for myself and we will swear upon our honor not to reveal the secret we ask you for , without your permission . 
Truly ? You have our word of honor , replied both the baron and Pascal in a breath . 
After casting a half frightened glance around him , the worthy Turk seemed to gather courage . 
It was plain that he would not speak . 
The baron shrugged his shoulders , but Pascal stepped bravely forward . 
Then I will tell you , prince , he said , the name that you are determined to hide from us . 
Oh ! But you must allow me to remark that the baron and myself retract the promise we made you just now . 
He sprang nervously on to his short , fat legs , his eyes wildly dilating and his hands fluttering despairingly . 
Don't speak so loud ! don't speak so loud ! he exclaimed , imploringly . 
As he did not even attempt to deny it , the truth of the assertion might be taken for granted . 
But Pascal was not content with this . 
Now that we know the fact , I hope , Prince , that you will be sufficiently obliging to tell us how it all happened , he remarked . 
Alas ! he replied , reluctantly , nothing could be more simple . 
I wanted to set up a racing stable . 
Not that I care much for sport . 
I can scarcely distinguish a horse from a mule but morning and evening , everybody says to me 'Prince , a man like you ought to make your name celebrated on the turf . 
Besides I never open a paper without reading 'Such a man ought to be a patron of the noblest of sports . 
At last , I said to myself 'Yes , they are right . 
I ought to take part in racing . 
So I began to look about for some horses . 
I accepted his offer , and visited his stables , where I selected seven of his best horses and paid for them and I paid a good round price , I assure you . 
He has not given me the horses I purchased . 
Pascal and the baron exchanged astonished glances . 
But never before had any one been accused of such an audacious and impudent piece of rascality as that which Kami Bey imputed to Valorsay . 
How did you fail to discover this at the outset , prince ? inquired Pascal in an incredulous tone . 
Because my time was so much occupied . 
But your servants ? Ah ! that's another thing . 
I shouldn't be at all surprised if it were proved that the man who has charge of my stables had been bribed by the marquis . 
Then , how were your suspicions aroused ? It was only by the merest chance . 
A jockey whom I thought of employing had often ridden one of the animals which I fancied myself the owner of . 
Knowing Kami's character better than Pascal , the baron had good reason to distrust the accuracy of these statements . 
For the Turkish millionaire's superb contempt of money was only affected . 
Vanity alone unloosed his purse strings . 
Besides , it was his ambition to be regarded as the most swindled man in Europe . 
But though he was shamefully imposed upon , it was not voluntarily for there was a strong dose of Arabian avarice and distrust in his composition . 
Frankly , prince , said the baron , your story sounds like one of the wild legends of your native land . 
Valorsay is certainly no fool . 
Isn't it an established fact that a person incurs no risk in robbing Kami Bey ? Had I been in your place I should have quietly instituted an investigation . 
What good would that have done ? Besides , the sale was only conditional , and took place under the seal of secrecy . 
The marquis reserved the right to take his horses back on payment of a stipulated sum , and the time he was to have for consideration only expired on the day before yesterday . 
Eh ! why didn't you tell us that at first ? cried the baron . 
The marquis's rascality was now easily explained . 
And what do you intend to do , prince ? asked Pascal . 
Ah ! I am still in doubt . 
I have compelled the marquis to give me the papers in which the exploits of these horses are recorded . 
These statements will be of service in case of a law suit . 
On the other hand , to confess that he has cheated me in this fashion would cover me with ridicule . 
Besides , the man is a dangerous enemy . 
And what would become of me if I happened to side against him ? I should be compelled to leave Paris . 
For we are wasting precious time , as you so often remark . 
Pascal had nothing more to learn so he shook hands with the baron , made an appointment with him for the same evening , and went away . 
It was only half past two a good hour and a half remained at his disposal . 
I will profit by this opportunity to eat something , he thought a sudden faintness reminding him that he had taken nothing but a cup of chocolate that day . 
Thereupon perceiving a cafe near by , he entered it , ordered breakfast , and lingered there until it was time to return to the Marquis de Valorsay's . 
He would have gone there before the appointed time if he had merely listened to the promptings of his impatience , so thoroughly was he persuaded that this second interview would be decisive . 
But prudence advised him not to expose himself to the danger of an encounter with Madame Leon and Dr . 
Well ! Monsieur Maumejan , cried the marquis , as soon as Pascal made his appearance . 
He had been counting the seconds with intense anxiety , as his tone of voice unmistakably revealed . 
I have , of course , deducted my commission . 
Now , if you will write and sign a note for twenty five thousand francs , payable to my order two months hence , our business for to day will be concluded . 
These twenty four thousand francs won't take the place of the hundred thousand which Baron Trigault promised me . 
And , as Pascal made no reply , the marquis began a desultory tramp up and down the smoking room . 
He was very pale , his brows were knit he looked like a man who was meditating a decisive step , and who was calculating the consequences . 
One risks nothing by advancing twenty five thousand francs to a person in your position , Monsieur le Marquis . 
Whatever happens , such a sum as that can always be gathered from the wreck . 
But double or triple the amount ! The deuce ! that requires reflection , and I must understand the situation thoroughly . 
And if I told you that I am almost ruined , what would you reply ? I shouldn't be so very much surprised . 
M. de Valorsay had now gone too far to draw back . 
Ah , well ! he resumed , the truth is this my affairs are terribly involved . 
The devil ! You should have told me that sooner . 
Wait I am about to retrieve my fortune to make it even larger than it has ever been . 
You told me this morning that you once assisted a man who was in a similar position . 
Will you help me ? You can set your own price on your services . 
More easily overcome by joy than by sorrow , Pascal almost betrayed himself . 
He had attained his object . 
Still , he succeeded in conquering his emotion , and it was in a perfectly calm voice that he replied I can promise nothing until I understand the situation , Monsieur le Marquis . 
Will you explain it to me ? I am listening . 
It was nearly midnight when M. Wilkie left the Hotel d'Argeles after the terrible scene in which he had revealed his true character . 
Another fellow who's had bad luck ! they remarked sneeringly to one another . 
He is pretty effectually used up , judging from appearances , one of them remarked . 
M. Wilkie was already far away , hastening up the boulevard with an agile step . 
He , Wilkie , to be humiliated in this style ! He would never endure that . 
This was an affront he could not swallow , one of those insults that cry out for vengeance and for blood . 
Ah ! the great brute shall pay for it , he repeated , again and again , grinding his teeth . 
For he intended to place his outraged honor in their care . 
They should be his seconds , and present his demand for satisfaction to the man who had insulted him . 
A duel was the only thing that could appease his furious anger and heal his wounded pride . 
And a great scandal , which he would be the hero of , was not without a certain charm for him . 
Unfortunately , he did not meet either M. Costard or the Viscount de Serpillon . 
A shocking affair ! If it were noised abroad I should be inconsolable . 
At last the cafes began to close , and promenaders became rare . 
M. Wilkie , much to his regret , was obliged to go home . 
When he had locked his door and donned his dressing gown , he sat down to think over the events of the day , and collect his scattered wits . 
No , M. Wilkie was quite above such paltry considerations good enough for commonplace and antiquated people . 
He was too clever for that . 
M. Wilkie was seized with terror when he looked his actual situation in the face . 
What was to become of him ? He was certain that Madame d'Argeles would not give him another sou . 
She could not he recognized that fact . 
His intelligence was equal to that . 
Yes , he actually sighed for the past he longed to live over again the very years in which he had so often complained of his destiny . 
Then , though not a millionaire by any means , he at least wanted for nothing . 
He sincerely wished that the great adversary of mankind had the Viscount de Coralth in his clutches . 
For , in his despair , it was the once dear viscount that he blamed , accused , and cursed . 
He was in this ungrateful frame of mind when a loud , almost savage , ring came at his door . 
As his servant slept in an attic upstairs , Wilkie was quite alone in his rooms , so he took the lamp and went to open the door himself . 
At this hour of the night , the visitor could only be M. Costard or the Viscount de Serpillon , or perhaps both of them . 
They have heard that I was looking for them , and so they have hastened here , he thought . 
The visitor was neither of these gentlemen , but M. Ferdinand de Coralth in person . 
At sight of the man who had so long been his model the friend who had advised what he styled his blunder Wilkie was so surprised that he almost dropped his lamp . 
Then as his wrath kindled , Ah ! so it's you ! he exclaimed , angrily . 
You come at a good time ! But M. de Coralth was too much exasperated to notice Wilkie's strange greeting . 
Seizing him roughly by the arm , and closing the door with a kick , he dragged Wilkie back into the little drawing room . 
Yes , it's I , he said , curtly . 
I had been there twice before , and had the doors shut in my face . 
You ought to have gone back ten times , a hundred times , a thousand times , rather than have accomplished such an idiotic prank as this . 
The violence shown by M. de Coralth , who was usually as cold and as polished as marble , quieted his own wrath . 
Still toward the last he felt disposed to rebel against the insults that were being heaped upon him . 
Do you know , viscount , that I begin to think this very strange , he exclaimed . 
If any one else had led me into such a scrape , I should have called him to account in double quick time . 
And try to speak the truth . 
It was one of M. Wilkie's greatest boasts that he had an indomitable will an iron nature . 
But the viscount exercised powerful influence over him , and , to tell the truth , inspired him with a form of emotion which was nearly akin to fear . 
So , ceasing his recriminations , he began to describe what he styled his explanation with Madame d'Argeles . 
All went well at first for he dared not misrepresent the facts . 
But when he came to the intervention of the man who had prevented him from striking his mother , he turned crimson , and rage again filled his heart . 
I'm sorry I let myself get into such a mess ! he exclaimed . 
You should have seen my condition . 
My shirt collar was torn , and my cravat hung in tatters . 
He was much stronger than I the contemptible scoundrel ! ah ! if it hadn't been for that But I shall have my revenge . 
Yes , he shall learn that he can't trample a man under foot with impunity . 
To morrow two of my friends will call upon him and if he refuses to apologize or to give me satisfaction , I'll cane him . 
It was evident enough that M. de Coralth had to exercise considerable constraint to listen to these fine projects . 
I must warn you that you ought to speak in other terms of an honorable and honored gentleman , he interrupted , at last . 
Eh ! what ! You know him then ? Yes , Madame d'Argeles's defender is Baron Trigault . 
M. Wilkie's heart bounded with joy , as he heard this name . 
Ah ! this is capital ! he exclaimed . 
There was no misunderstanding M. de Coralth's tone , and his glance said plainly that he would not allow much time to pass before putting his threat into execution . 
So , in his most persuasive manner , he resumed Let us say no more about the wife , but give our attention to the husband . 
Serpillon has not an equal as a second . 
The viscount had never had a very exalted opinion of Wilkie's intelligence , but now he was amazed to see how greatly he had overestimated it . 
Enough of such foolishness , he interrupted , curtly . 
This duel will never take place . 
I should like to know who will prevent it ? I will , if you persist in such an absurd idea . 
You ought to have sense enough to know that the baron would kick Serpillon out of the house , and that you would only cover yourself with ridicule . 
So , between your duel and my help make your choice , and quickly . 
The prospect of sending his seconds to demand satisfaction from Baron Trigault was certainly a very attractive one . 
But , on the other hand , Wilkie could not afford to dispense with M. de Coralth's services . 
But the baron has insulted me , he urged . 
Well , you can demand satisfaction when you obtain possession of your property but the least scandal now would spoil your last chances . 
I will abandon the project , then , sighed Wilkie , despondently but pray advise me . 
What do you think of my situation ? M. de Coralth seemed to consider a moment , and then gravely replied I think that , UNASSISTED , you have no chance whatever . 
You have no standing , no influential connections , no position you are not even a Frenchman . 
Alas ! that is precisely what I have said to myself . 
Still , I am convinced that with some assistance you might overcome your mother's resistance , and even your father's pretentions . 
Yes , but where could I find protectors ? The viscount's gravity seemed to increase . 
Listen to me , said he I will do for you what I would not do for any one else . 
The one who is so well known upon the turf ? The same . 
And you will introduce me to him ? Yes . 
Be ready to morrow at eleven o'clock , and I will call for you and take you to his house . 
If he interests himself in your cause , it is as good as gained . 
And as his companion overwhelmed him with thanks , he rose , and said I must go now . 
No more foolishness , and be ready to morrow at the appointed time . 
Thanks to the surprising mutability of temper which was the most striking characteristic of his nature , M. Wilkie was already consoled for his blunder . 
A word which the viscount had dropped during the conversation had considerably helped to bring about this sudden revulsion of feelings . 
You cannot fail to understand that if the Marquis de Valorsay espouses your cause , you will want for nothing . 
And if a lawsuit is unavoidable , he will be perfectly willing to advance the necessary funds . 
How could M. Wilkie lack confidence after that ? The brightest hopes , the most ecstatic visions had succeeded the gloomy forebodings of a few hours before . 
It is needless to say that Wilkie dressed with infinite care on the following morning , no doubt in the hope of making a conquest of the marquis at first sight . 
Why do you say 'already ? replied the viscount . 
I am a quarter of an hour behind time . 
Are you not ready ? Yes , certainly . 
Let us start at once , then my brougham is outside . 
The drive was a silent one . 
M. Ferdinand de Coralth , whose smooth white skin would ordinarily have excited the envy of a young girl , did not look like himself . 
His face was swollen and covered with blotches , and there were dark blue circles round his eyes . 
He seemed , moreover , to be in a most savage humor . 
He hasn't had sleep enough , thought M. Wilkie , with his usual discernment he hasn't a bronze constitution like myself . 
The sight of the Marquis de Valorsay's handsome mansion was not likely to restore his assurance . 
He felt actually ashamed of his own ignorance . 
This gentleman is undoubtedly the young friend you spoke of in the note I received from you this morning ? The same and really he stands greatly in need of your kindness . 
He finds himself in an extremely delicate position , and knows no one who can lend him a helping hand . 
Ah , well , I will lend him one with pleasure , since he is your friend . 
But I must know the circumstances before I can act . 
Sit down , gentlemen , and enlighten me . 
M. Wilkie had prepared his story in advance , a touching and witty narrative but when the moment came to begin it , he found himself unable to speak . 
He opened his mouth , but no sound issued from his lips , and it seemed as if he had been stricken dumb . 
Accordingly it was M. de Coralth who made a statement of the case , and he did it well . 
He also noticed and he considered it an excellent omen that M. de Valorsay was listening with the closest attention . 
Worthy marquis ! if his own interests had been in jeopardy he could not have appeared more deeply concerned . 
First , because your cause seems to me just , and , also , because you are M. de Coralth's friend . 
I promise you my aid on one condition that you will follow my advice implicitly . 
The eye of the public is upon me , and I have my PRESTIGE to maintain . 
I have given you a great mark of confidence , for in lending you my influence I become , in some measure at least , your sponsor . 
But I cannot accept this great responsibility unless I am allowed absolute control of the affair . 
And I think that we ought to begin operations this very day . 
The main thing is to circumvent your father , the terrible man with whom your mother has threatened you . 
Ah ! but how ? I shall dress at once and go to the Hotel de Chalusse , in order to ascertain what has occurred there . 
You on your side must hasten to Madame d'Argeles and request her politely , but firmly , to furnish you with the necessary proofs to assert your rights . 
If she consents , well and good ! If she refuses , we will consult some lawyer as to the next step . 
In any case , call here again at four o'clock . 
But the thought of meeting Madame d'Argeles again was anything but pleasing to Wilkie . 
I would willingly yield that undertaking to some one else , said he . 
Cannot some one else go in my place ? Fortunately M. de Coralth knew how to encourage him . 
What ! are you afraid ? he asked . 
Afraid ! he ? never ! It was easy to see that by the way he settled his hat on his head and went off , slamming the door noisily behind him . 
What an idiot ! muttered M. de Coralth . 
And to think that there are ten thousand in Paris built upon the very same plan ! M. de Valorsay gravely shook his head . 
Let us thank fortune that he is as he is . 
No youth who possessed either heart or intelligence would play the part that I intend for him , and enable me to obtain proud Marguerite and her millions . 
But I fear he won't go to Madame d'Argeles's house . 
You noticed his repugnance ! Oh , you needn't trouble yourself in the least on that account he'll go . 
He would go to the devil if the noble Marquis de Valorsay ordered him to do so . 
M. de Coralth understood Wilkie perfectly . 
For if he had looked upon M. de Coralth as an oracle , he considered the marquis to be a perfect god . 
Accordingly , as he hastened toward Madame d'Argeles's residence , he said to himself Why shouldn't I go to her house ? I've done her no injury . 
Besides , she won't eat me . 
However , the unusual aspect of the house excited his surprise , and puzzled him not a little . 
Three huge furniture vans , heavily laden , were standing outside the gate . 
In the courtyard there were two more vehicles of the same description , which a dozen men or so were busily engaged in loading . 
Madame is at home , replied one of the men , in anything but a polite tone and I will go and see if she will consent to see you . 
He went off , leaving M. Wilkie in the vestibule to settle his collar and twirl his puny mustaches , with affected indifference but in reality he was far from comfortable . 
For the servants did not hesitate to stare at him , and it was quite impossible not to read their contempt in their glances . 
They even sneered audibly and pointed at him and he heard five or six epithets more expressive than elegant which could only have been meant for himself . 
The fools ! thought he , boiling with anger . 
The scoundrels ! Ah ! if I dared . 
Madame will see you , said the man , impudently . 
He here found Madame d'Argeles engaged in packing a large trunk with household linen and sundry articles of clothing . 
By a sort of miracle the unfortunate woman had survived the terrible shock which had at first threatened to have an immediately fatal effect . 
Still she had none the less received her death blow . 
It was only necessary to look at her to be assured of that . 
She was so greatly changed that when M. Wilkie's eyes first fell on her , he asked himself if this were really the same person whom he had met on the previous evening . 
Henceforth she would be an old woman . 
You would have taken her for over fifty , so terrible had been the sufferings caused her by the shameful conduct of her son . 
I came to talk about our affairs , you know , he replied , and I find you moving . 
Wilkie was struck dumb for a moment , but eventually recovering himself a little , he exclaimed What ! you are going to sell everything ? Yes . 
Astonishing , upon my honor ! But afterward ? I shall leave Paris . 
A terrible disquietude seized hold of Wilkie . 
And when I've once taken anything into my head He paused , for he could no longer face the scornful glances that Madame d'Argeles was giving him . 
Don't be alarmed , she replied bitterly , I shall leave you the means of asserting your right to my parents' estate . 
Ah so Your threats obliged me to decide contrary to my own wishes . 
I felt that no amount of slander or disgrace would daunt you . 
Of course not , when so many millions are at stake . 
I reflected , and I saw that nothing would arrest you upon your downward path except a large fortune . 
For real virtue implies temptation a struggle and victory . 
Although he did not understand these remarks very well , M. Wilkie evinced a desire to offer some objections but Madame d'Argeles had already resumed So I went to my notary this morning . 
I told him everything and by this time my renunciation of my rights to the estate of the Count de Chalusse is already recorded . 
Allow me to finish since you don't understand me . 
As soon as I renounce the inheritance it becomes yours . 
Truly ? I have no wish to deceive you . 
I only desire that the name of Lia d'Argeles should not be mentioned . 
I will give you the necessary proofs to establish your identity my marriage contract and your certificate of birth . 
It was joy that made M. Wilkie speechless now . 
And when will you give me these documents ? he faltered , after a short pause . 
You shall have them before you leave this house but first of all I must talk with you . 
Agitated and excited though he was , M. Wilkie had not once ceased to think of M. de Coralth and the Marquis de Valorsay . 
Convinced of this , and seized with a laudable desire to emulate such distinguished examples , he had perched himself upon a trunk , where he still sat with his legs crossed . 
Yes , I must talk with you , she said , and more for your sake than for my own . 
I must tell you who I am , and through what strange vicissitudes I have passed . 
You know what family I belong to . 
I will tell you , however for you may be ignorant of the fact that our house is the equal of any in France in lineage , splendor of alliance , and fortune . 
Certainly everything that money could procure , or vanity desire , was within my reach and yet my youth was wretchedly unhappy . 
I scarcely knew my father , who was devoured by ambition , and had thrown himself body and soul into the vortex of politics . 
As for my brother he was too much engrossed in pleasure to think of a mere child . 
I do not pretend to justify my fault , I am only explaining it . 
I thought myself the most unfortunate being in the world and such I really was , since I honestly believed it when I happened to meet Arthur Gordon , your father . 
I saw him for the first time at a fete given at the house of the Comte de Commarin . 
How he , a mere adventurer , had succeeded in forcing his way into the most exclusive society in the world , is a point which I have never been able to explain . 
In his whole appearance there was certainly a mysterious and fatal charm . 
I afterward learned that this was only a natural result of the wild life he had led . 
He divined only too well the impression he had made upon my heart . 
I met him twice afterward in society . 
At last he ventured to write to me . 
The moment a letter addressed to me in an unknown hand was covertly handed me by my maid , I divined that it came from him . 
I was frightened , and my first impulse was to take it , not to my mother whom I regarded as my natural enemy but to my father . 
However , he chanced to be absent I kept the letter , I read it , I answered it and he wrote again . 
Alas ! from that moment my conduct was inexcusable . 
I knew that it was worse than a fault to continue this clandestine correspondence . 
I knew my parents would never give my hand in marriage to a man who was not of noble birth . 
Besides , he gave me no time to breathe , or reflect . 
Everywhere , constantly , every instant , he compelled me to think of him . 
By some miracle of address and audacity , he had discovered a means of intruding upon my presence , even in my father's house . 
For instance , every morning I found the vases in my room full of choice flowers , though I was never able to discover what hands had placed them there . 
At the very same time he was pursuing two other rich young girls , persuaded that one of the three would certainly become his victim . 
I was the first to yield . 
One of those unforeseen events which are the work of Providence , was destined to decide my fate . 
Several times , already , in compliance with Arthur's urgent entreaties , I had met him at night time in a little pavilion in our garden . 
This pavilion contained a billiard room and a spacious gallery in which my brother practised fencing and pistol shooting with his masters and friends . 
There , thanks to the liberty I enjoyed , we thought ourselves perfectly secure from observation , and we were imprudent enough to light the candles . 
One night when I had just joined Arthur in the pavilion , I thought I heard the sound of hoarse , heavy breathing behind me . 
I turned round in a fright and saw my brother standing on the threshold . 
Oh ! then I realized how guilty I had been ! I felt that one or the other of these two men my lover or my brother would not leave that room alive . 
I tried to speak , to throw myself between them , but I found I could neither speak nor move it was as if I had been turned to stone . 
Nor did they exchange a word at first . 
But at last my brother drew two swords from their scabbards , and throwing one at Arthur's feet , exclaimed 'I have no wish to assassinate you . 
Arthur caught up the sword , and springing upon my brother , disarmed him , and wounded him in the breast . 
I saw the blood spurt out upon my lover's hands . 
I saw my brother stagger , beat the air wildly with his hands , and fall apparently lifeless to the floor . 
But Madame d'Argeles seemed to have forgotten his existence . 
She wiped away the foam flecked blood which had risen to her lips , and in the same mournful voice resumed her story . 
When I regained my senses it was morning , and I was lying , still dressed , on a bed in a strange room . 
Arthur Gordon was standing at the foot of the bed anxiously watching my movements . 
He did not give me time to question him . 
'You are in my house , said he . 
'Your brother is dead ! Almighty God ! I thought I should die as well . 
But , in spite of my sobs , he pitilessly continued 'It is a terrible misfortune which I shall never cease to regret . 
And yet , it was his own fault . 
You , who witnessed the scene . 
know that it was so . 
You can still see on my face the mark of the blow he dealt me . 
I only defended myself and you . 
I was ignorant then of the accepted code of duelling . 
I did not know that by throwing himself upon my brother before he was on guard , Arthur Gordon had virtually assassinated him . 
He relied upon my ignorance for the success of the sinister farce he was playing . 
'When I saw your brother fall , he continued , 'I was wild with terror and not knowing what I did , I caught you up in my arms and brought you here . 
But don't tremble , I know that you are not in my house of your own free will . 
A carriage is below and awaits your orders to convey you to your parents' home . 
It will be easy to find an explanation for last night's catastrophe . 
Slander will not venture to attack such a family as yours . 
He spoke in the constrained tone , and with that air which a brave man , condemned to death , would assume in giving utterance to his last wishes . 
I felt as if I were going mad . 
Nothing matters now that I must live apart from you' ! Ah ! he knew my heart . 
'Since fate united us , nothing but death shall separate us . 
Let the curse fall upon both ! A keen observer would certainly have detected a gleam of fiendish joy in his eyes . 
But he protested , or pretended to protest . 
With feigned energy he refused to accept such a sacrifice . 
But the more he repulsed me , the more obstinately I clung to him . 
The more forcibly he showed the horror of the sacrifice , the more I was convinced that my honor compelled me to make it . 
So at last he yielded , or seemed to yield , with transports of gratitude and love . 
'Well ! yes , I accept your sacrifice , my darling ! he exclaimed . 
'I accept it and before the God who is looking down upon us , I swear that I will do all that is in human power to repay such sublime and marvellous devotion . 
And , bending over me , he printed a kiss upon my forehead . 
'But we must fly ! he resumed , quickly . 
'I have my happiness to defend now ! I will not suffer any one to discover us and separate us now . 
We must start at once , without losing a moment , and gain my native land , America . 
There , we shall be safe . 
For rest assured they will search for us . 
Who knows but even now the officers of the law are upon our track ? Your family is all powerful I am a mere nobody we should be crushed if they discover us . 
They would bury you in a gloomy cloister , and I should be tried as a common thief , or as a vile assassin . 
My only answer was 'Let us go ! Let us go at once ! It had been easy for him to foresee what the result of this interview would be . 
Besides , the coachman must have received his instructions in advance for he drove us straight to the Havre Railway station without a word . 
It was not until some months afterward that these trifles , which entirely escaped my notice at the time , opened my eyes to the truth . 
When we reached the station we found a train ready to start , and we took our places in it . 
I tried to quiet my conscience with miserable sophistries . 
And thus I fled with him , although I thought I left a corpse behind me the corpse of my only brother . 
M. Wilkie was actually so much interested that he forgot his anxiety concerning his attitude , and no longer thought of M. de Coralth and the Marquis de Valorsay . 
He even sprang up , and exclaimed Amazing ! But Madame d'Argeles had already resumed Such was my great , inexcusable , irreparable fault . 
I have told you the whole truth , without trying either to conceal or justify anything . 
Listen to my chastisement ! On our arrival at Le Havre the next day , Arthur confessed that he was greatly embarrassed financially . 
My education had been absurd , like that of most young girls in my station . 
I knew nothing of real life , of its requirements and difficulties . 
But all this was not very clear in my mind , and I never suspected that a few francs more or less would be a matter of vital importance . 
I gave him all I had , my purse containing a few louis , a ring and a necklace , with a handsome diamond cross attached to it . 
One never knows what may happen . 
Want of money was keeping us prisoners at Le Havre , when Arthur Gordon chanced to meet an old acquaintance , who was the captain of an American sailing vessel . 
He confided his embarrassment to his friend , and the latter , whose vessel was to sail at the end of the same week , kindly offered us a free passage . 
The voyage was one long torture to me , for it was then that I first served my apprenticeship in shame and disgrace . 
Not that he had wholly ceased to practise dissimulation . 
Once , after drinking more than usual , he entirely forgot his assumed part , and revealed himself in his true character . 
He declared he bitterly regretted that our love affair had ended so disastrously . 
It was deplorable to think that so happily conceived and so skilfully conducted a scheme should have terminated in bloodshed . 
And the blow had fallen just as he fancied he had reached the goal just as he thought he would reap the reward of his labor . 
In a few weeks' more time he would undoubtedly have gained sufficient influence over me to persuade me to elope with him . 
Ah ! it was no longer possible to doubt . 
The truth was as clear as daylight . 
I had never been loved , not even an hour , not even a moment . 
The loving letters which had blinded me , the protestations of affection which had deceived me , had been addressed to my father's millions , not to myself . 
And not unfrequently I saw Arthur Gordon's face darken , as he talked with evident anxiety about what he could do to earn a living for himself and me in America . 
'I have had trouble enough to get on alone , he grumbled . 
'What will it be now ? To burden myself with a penniless wife ! What egregious folly ! And yet I couldn't have acted differently I was compelled to do it . 
Why had he been compelled to do it ? why had he not acted differently ? that was what I vainly puzzled my brain to explain . 
However , his gloomy fears of poverty were not realized . 
A delightful surprise awaited him at New York . 
A relative had recently died , leaving him a legacy of fifty thousand dollars a small fortune . 
I hoped that he would now cease his constant complaints , but he seemed even more displeased than before . 
'Such is the irony of fate , he repeated again and again . 
Had he done so out of respect for his word ? I believed so . 
But , alas ! this marriage was the result of calculation , like everything else he did . 
We were living in New York , when one evening he came home , looking very pale and agitated . 
He had a French newspaper in his hand . 
'Read this , he said , handing it to me . 
I took the paper as he bade me , and read that my brother had not been killed , that he was improving , and that his recovery was now certain . 
A few days afterward , he said to me 'I cannot endure this ! Have our trunks ready to morrow , and we will start South . 
Instead of calling ourselves Gordon , we'll travel under the name of Grant . 
I did not venture to question him . 
He had quite mastered me by his cruel tyranny , and I was accustomed to obey him like a slave in terror of the lash . 
However , during our long journey , I learned the cause of our flight and change of name . 
It was this dread that had decided him to burden himself with me . 
He feared that if he left me , lying unconscious beside my brother's lifeless form , I might on recovering my senses reveal the truth , and unconsciously act as his accuser . 
You were born in Richmond , Wilkie , where we remained nearly a month , during which time I saw but little of your father . 
He had formed the acquaintance of several rich planters , and spent his time hunting and gambling with them . 
Unfortunately , fifty thousand dollars could not last long at this rate and , in spite of his skill as a gambler , he returned home one morning ruined . 
A fortnight later when he had sold our effects , and borrowed all the money he could , we embarked again for France . 
It was not until we reached Paris that I discovered the reasons that had influenced him in returning to Europe . 
He had heard of my father and mother's death , and intended to compel me to claim my share of the property . 
He dared not appear in person on account of my brother . 
I had sworn to die inch by inch and by the most frightful tortures rather than give him one penny of the Chalusse millions . 
And I kept my word . 
When I told him that I was resolved not to assert my rights , he seemed utterly confounded . 
He could not understand how the down trodden slave dared to revolt against him . 
And when he found that my decision was irrevocable , I thought he would have an attack of apoplexy . 
Then began a struggle between us , which became more and more frightful as the money he possessed gradually dwindled away . 
He would certainly have been the first to grow weary of the struggle , if a fiendish plan had not occurred to him . 
He said to himself that if he could not conquer the wife , he COULD conquer the mother and he threatened to turn his brutatity to you , Wilkie . 
To save you for I knew what he was capable of I pretended to waver , and I asked twenty four hours for reflection . 
But the next day I left him forever , flying from him with you in my arms . 
M. Wilkie turned white , and a cold chill crept up his spine . 
I was alone with you , Wilkie , in this great city , she resumed . 
A hundred francs was all that I possessed . 
My first care was to find a place of shelter . 
For sixteen francs a month , which I was compelled to pay in advance , I found a small , meagrely furnished room in the Faubourg Saint Martin . 
It was badly ventilated and miserably lighted , but still it was shelter . 
I said to myself that we could live there together by my work , Wilkie . 
Alas ! I discovered only too soon what chimerical hopes I had cherished . 
To give music lessons it is necessary to obtain pupils . 
At last , I decided to try to find some employment in needlework , and timidly offered my services at several shops . 
Alas ! it is only those who have gone about from door to door soliciting work who know the misery of the thing . 
To ask alms would be scarcely more humiliating . 
that 'there was no business doing , and they had all the help they wanted . 
My evident inexperience was probably the cause of many of these refusals , as well as my attire , for I still had the appearance of being a rich woman . 
Who knows what they took me for ? Still the thought of you sustained me , Wilkie , and nothing daunted me . 
I finally succeeded in obtaining some bands of muslin to embroider , and some pieces of tapestry work to fill in . 
Unremunerative employment , no doubt , especially to one ignorant of the art of working quickly , rather than well . 
By rising with daylight , and working until late at night , I scarcely succeeded in earning twenty sous a day . 
And it was not long before even this scanty resource failed me . 
Winter came , and the cold weather with it . 
One morning I changed my last five franc piece it lasted us a week . 
Then I pawned and sold everything that was not absolutely indispensable until nothing was left me but my patched dress and a single skirt . 
And soon an evening came when the owner of our miserable den turned us into the street because I could no longer pay the rent . 
This was the final blow ! I tottered away , clinging to the walls for support too weak from lack of food to carry you . 
The rain was falling , and chilled us to the bones . 
And all that night and all the next day , aimless and hopeless , we wandered about the streets . 
I must either die of want or return to your father . 
There was a strange fascination a promise of peace in its depths that impelled me almost irresistibly to plunge into the flood . 
If I had been alone in the world , I should not have stopped to consider a second , but on your account , Wilkie , I hesitated . 
Moved by the thought of the danger he had escaped , M. Wilkie shuddered . 
B r r r ! he growled . 
You did well to hesitate . 
By the light of the street lamp , I perceived a man who looked some thirty years of age , and had a frank and rather genial face . 
Why this stranger instantly inspired me with unlimited confidence I don't know . 
Perhaps it was an unconscious horror of death that made me long for any token of human sympathy . 
However it may have been , I told him my story , but not without changing the names , and omitting many particulars . 
He had taken a seat beside me on the bench , and I saw big tears roll down his cheeks as I proceeded with my narrative . 
'It is ever so ! it is ever so ! he muttered . 
'To love is to incur the risk of martyrdom . 
It is to offer one's self as a victim to every perfidy , to the basest treason and ingratitude . 
The man who spoke in this fashion was Baron Trigault . 
He did not allow me to finish my story . 
The next day , moreover , we were installed in a pleasant home . 
He thought that reflection would cure me of my folly . 
Unfortunately , he was not acquainted with the fatal obstinacy which is the distinguishing characteristic of the Chalusse family . 
And that same week this house was rented and furnished , and I was installed in it under the name of Lia d'Argeles . 
But this was not all . 
There still remained the task of creating for myself one of those scandalous reputations that attract public attention . 
This proved an easy task , thanks to the assistance of my silent partners , and the innocent simplicity of several of their friends and certain journalists . 
As for myself , I did my best to insure the success of the horrible farce which was to lend infamous notoriety to the name of Lia d'Argeles . 
I had magnificent equipages and superb dresses , and I made myself conspicuous at the theatres and all places of public resort . 
As is generally the case when one is acting contrary to conscience , I called the most absurd sophistries to my assistance . 
When the baron hastened to me and tried to rescue me from the abyss into which I had flung myself . 
I had discovered that the business would prove successful and for your sake , I longed for money as passionately , as madly , as any miser . 
Last year my gaming room yielded more than one hundred and fifty thousand francs clear profit , and I received as my share the thirty five thousand francs which you squandered . 
Now you know me as I really am . 
My associates , my partners , the men whose secret I have faithfully kept , walk the streets with their heads erect . 
They boast of their unsullied honor , and they are respected by every one . 
Such is the truth , and I have no reason to make their disgrace known . 
Besides , if I proclaimed it from the house tops , no one would believe me . 
But you are my son , and I owe you the truth , the whole truth ! In any age but the present , Madame d'Argeles's story would have seemed absolutely incredible . 
Nowadays , however , such episodes are by no means rare . 
'Tis after all but an everyday occurrence . 
But the hope was vain . 
It would have been easier to draw water from a solid rock than to , extract a sympathetic tear from Wilkie's eyes . 
He was only alive to the practical side of this narrative , and what impressed him most was the impudent assurance of Madame d'Argeles's business associates . 
Not a bad idea not bad at all , he exclaimed . 
And , boiling over with curiosity , he continued I would give something handsome to know those men's names . 
Really you ought to tell me . 
It would be worth one's while to know . 
Any other person than this interesting young man would have been crushed by the look his mother gave him a look embodying the deepest disappointment and contempt . 
I think you must be mad , she remarked coldly . 
And as he sprang up , astonished that any one should doubt his abundant supply of good sense , Let us put an end to this , she sternly added . 
Thereupon she hastily went into the adjoining room , reappearing a moment later with a roll of papers in her hand . 
All these proofs I am ready and willing to place at your disposal , but on one condition . 
This last word fell like a cold shower bath upon Wilkie's exultant joy . 
What is this condition ? he anxiously inquired . 
Two millions ! The immensity of the sum struck Wilkie dumb with consternation . 
Nor did he forget that he would be compelled to give the Viscount de Coralth the large reward he had promised him a reward promised in writing , unfortunately . 
I shall have nothing left , he began , piteously . 
But with a disdainful gesture Madame d'Argeles interrupted him . 
Set your mind at rest , said she . 
You will still be immensely rich . 
All the estimates which have been made are far below the mark . 
When I was a girl I often heard my father say that his income amounted to more than eight hundred thousand francs a year . 
My brother inherited the whole property , and I would be willing to swear that he never spent more than half of his income . 
Wilkie's nerves had never been subjected to so severe a shock . 
He tottered and his brain whirled . 
Oh ! oh ! he stammered . 
This was all he could say . 
Only I must warn you of a more than probable deception , pursued Madame d'Argeles . 
As my brother was firmly resolved to deprive me even of my rightful portion of the estate , he concealed his fortune in every possible way . 
It will undoubtedly require considerable time and trouble to gain possession of the whole . 
However I know a man , formerly the Count de Chalusse's confidential agent , who might aid you in this task . 
And this man's name ? Is Isidore Fortunat . 
I saved his card for you . 
M. Wilkie took it up , placed it carefully in his pocket , and then exclaimed That being the case , I consent to sign , but after this you need not complain . 
Two millions at five per cent . 
ought to greatly alleviate one's sufferings . 
Madame d'Argeles did not deign to notice this delicate irony . 
I will tell you in advance to what purpose I intend to apply this sum , she said . 
This wise precaution could not fail to shock such a brilliant young man as M. Wilkie . 
Do you take me for a fool ? he exclaimed . 
I may appear very generous , but I am shrewd enough , never you fear . 
Sign , interrupted Madame d'Argeles , coldly . 
But he attempted to prove that he was no fool by reading and rereading the contract before he would consent to append his name to it . 
At last , however , he did so , and stowed away the proofs which insured him the much coveted property . 
Now , said Madame d'Argeles , I have one request to make of you . 
You will be rich enough to satisfy his greed without feeling it . 
M. Wilkie remained silent for a moment , as if he were deliberating upon the course he ought to pursue . 
If my father is reasonable , I will be the same , he said at last . 
I will choose as an arbiter between us one of my friends a man who acts on the square , like myself the Marquis de Valorsay . 
My God ! do you know him ? He is one of my most intimate friends . 
Madame d'Argeles had become very pale . 
Wretched boy ! she exclaimed . 
You don't know that it's the marquis She paused abruptly . 
One word more and she would have betrayed Pascal Ferailleur's secret plans , with which she had been made acquainted by Baron Trigault . 
But Madame d'Argeles had recovered her self possession . 
I only wished to warn you against too close a connection with the Marquis de Valorsay . 
He has an excellent position in society , but yours will be far more brilliant . 
His star is on the wane yours is just rising . 
All that he is regretting , you have a right to hope for . 
Perhaps even now he is jealous of you , and wishes to persuade you to take some false step . 
Ah ! you little know him ! I have warned you . 
M. Wilkie took up his hat , but , though he was longing to depart , embarrassment kept him to the spot . 
He vaguely felt that he ought not to leave his mother in this style . 
I hope I shall soon have some good news to bring you , he began . 
Before night I shall have left this house , she answered . 
But you are going to give me your new address . 
No. What ? No ! She shook her head sadly , and in a scarcely audible voice responded It is not likely that we shall meet again . 
And the two millions that I am to turn over to you ? Mr. Patterson will collect the money . 
As for me , say to yourself that I'm dead . 
You have broken the only link that bound me to life , by proving the futility of the most terrible sacrifices . 
However , I am a mother , and I forgive you . 
Then as he did not move , and as she felt that her strength was deserting her , she dragged herself from the room , murmuring , Farewell ! XVI . 
Stupefied with astonishment , M. Wilkie stood for a moment silent and motionless . 
Allow me , he faltered at last Allow me I wish to explain . 
But Madame d'Argeles did not even turn her head the door closed behind her and he was left alone . 
However strong a man's nature may be , he always has certain moments of weakness . 
For instance , at the present moment Wilkie was completely at a loss what to do . 
Not that he repented , he was incapable of that but there are hours when the most hardened conscience is touched , and when long dormant instincts at last assert their rights . 
If he had obeyed his first impulse , he would have darted after his mother and thrown himself on his knees before her . 
But reflection , remembrance of the Viscount de Coralth , and the Marquis de Valorsay , made him silent the noblest voice that had spoken in his soul for many a long day . 
He had not breakfasted , but his stomach was out of sorts , as he said to himself , and it would really have been impossible for him to swallow a morsel . 
Thus not caring to return home , he started in quest of one of his former intimates , with the generous intention of overpowering him with the great news . 
Thus occupied , time flew by so quickly that he was a trifle late in keeping his appointment with his dear friend the marquis . 
Wilkie found M. de Valorsay as he had left him in his smoking room , talking with the Viscount de Coralth . 
Not that the marquis had been idle , but it had barely taken him an hour to set in motion the machinery which he had had in complete readiness since the evening before . 
Victory ! cried Wilkie , as he appeared on the threshold . 
It was a hard battle , but I asserted my rights . 
You are certainly more courageous than I fancied , said M. de Valorsay gravely , when the narrative was ended . 
Is that really so ? It is , indeed . 
Now the world is before you . 
Let your story be noised abroad and it will be noised abroad and you will become a hero . 
M. Wilkie was really too much overwhelmed to feel elated . 
Upon my word , you overpower me , my dear marquis you quite overpower me , he stammered . 
I too have been at work , resumed the marquis . 
And I have made numerous inquiries , in accordance with my promise . 
I almost regret it , for what I have discovered is very singular , to say the least . 
I was just saying so to Coralth when you came in . 
You shall hear their story , and then you must decide for yourself . 
So saying , he rang the bell , and as soon as a servant answered the summons , he exclaimed Show M. Casimir in . 
When the lackey had retired to carry out this order , the marquis remarked Casimir was the deceased count's valet . 
M. Casimir , who was irreproachably clad in black , with a white cambric tie round his neck , entered the room at this very moment , smiling and bowing obsequiously . 
This gentleman , my good fellow , said M. de Valorsay , pointing to Wilkie , is your former master's only heir . 
A proof of devotion might induce him to keep you with him . 
What you told me a little while ago is of great importance to him see if you can repeat it now for his benefit . 
M. Wilkie bounded from his chair . 
Immense sums ! he exclaimed . 
Is it possible ! Monsieur shall judge . 
We servants were terribly alarmed , for we feared that suspicion would fall upon us . 
Ah ! if Wilkie had only been alone he would have given vent to his true feelings . 
But here , under the eyes of the marquis and M. de Coralth , he felt that he must maintain an air of stoical indifference . 
He ALMOST succeeded in doing so , and in a tolerably firm voice he remarked This is not very pleasant news . 
Two millions ! that's a good haul . 
Tell me , my friend , have you any clue to the thief ? The valet's troubled glance betrayed an uneasy conscience , but he had gone too far to draw back . 
I shouldn't like to accuse an innocent person , he replied , but there was some one who constantly had access to that escritoire . 
And who was that ? Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
I don't know the lady . 
She's a young girl who is at least people say the count's illegitimate daughter . 
Her word was law in the house . 
What has become of her ? She has gone to live with General de Fondege , one of the count's friends . 
She wouldn't take her jewels and diamonds away with her , which seemed very strange , for they are worth more than a hundred thousand francs . 
Even Bourigeau said to me 'That's unnatural , M. Casimir . 
Borigeau is the concierge of the house , a very worthy man . 
Monsieur will not find his equal . 
Very well , replied M. de Valorsay , ask him to wait . 
When I ring , you can usher him in . 
Then addressing M. Casimir , he added You may retire for the present , but don't leave the house . 
M. Wilkie will acquaint you with his intentions by and by . 
The valet thereupon backed out of the room , bowing profoundly . 
There is a story for you ! exclaimed M. Wilkie as soon as the door was closed . 
A robbery of two millions ! The marquis shook his head , and remarked , gravely That's a mere nothing . 
I suspect something far more terrible . 
What , pray ? Upon my word ! you frighten me . 
Wait ! I may be mistaken . 
Even the doctor may lie deceived . 
But you shall judge for yourself . 
As he spoke , he pulled the bell rope , and an instant after , the servant announced Dr . 
M. Casimir was an innocent accomplice , but the doctor knew what he was doing . 
Interviewed on behalf of the Marquis de Valorsay by Madame Leon , he had fathomed the whole mystery at once . 
These two crafty natures had read and understood each other . 
By the doctor's attitude , a keen observer might have divined the secret trepidation that always precedes a bad action which has been conceived and decided upon in cold blood . 
To tell the truth , he began , speaking slowly , and with some difficulty , now that the moment for speaking has come , I almost hesitate . 
Our profession has painful exigencies . 
Perhaps it is now too late . 
If there had been any of the count's relatives in the house , or even an heir at the time , I should have insisted upon an autopsy . 
But now On hearing the word autopsy , M. Wilkie looked round with startled eyes . 
He opened his lips to interrupt the speaker , but the physician had already resumed his narrative . 
Besides , I had only suspicions , he said , suspicions based , it is true , upon strange and alarming circumstances . 
I am a man , that is to say , I am liable to error . 
In the kingdom of science it would be unpardonable temerity on my part to affirm To affirm what ? interrupted M. Wilkie . 
The physician did not seem to hear him , but continued in the same dogmatic tone . 
The count apparently died from an attack of apoplexy , but certain poisons produce similar and even identical symptoms which are apt to deceive the most experienced medical men . 
Whiter than his shirt , and trembling like a leaf , M. Wilkie sprang from his chair . 
I understand ! he exclaimed . 
The count was murdered poisoned . 
But the physician replied with an energetic protest . 
Oh , not so fast ! said he . 
Don't mistake my conjectures for assertions . 
Still , I ought not to conceal the circumstances which awakened my suspicions . 
On the morning preceding his attack , the count took two spoonfuls of the contents of a vial which the people in charge could not or would not produce . 
When I asked what this vial contained , the answer was 'A medicine to prevent apoplexy . 
I don't say that this is false , but prove it . 
As for the motive that led to the crime , it is apparent at once . 
The escritoire contained two millions of francs , and the money has disappeared . 
Show me the vial , find the money , and I will admit that I am wrong . 
But until then , I shall have my suspicions . 
He did not speak like a physician but like an examining magistrate , and his alarming deductions found their way even to M. Wilkie's dull brain . 
Who could have committed the crime ? he asked . 
And this person ? Is the count's illegitimate daughter , who lived in the house with him Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
M. Wilkie sank into his chair again , completely overwhelmed . 
The coincidence between the doctor's deposition and M. Casimir's testimony was too remarkable to pass unnoticed . 
Ah ! this is most unfortunate ! faltered Wilkie . 
My profession forbids my acting as an adviser in such cases , replied the physician , but these gentlemen have not the same reasons for keeping silent . 
Excuse me , interrupted the marquis quickly but this is one of those cases in which a man must be left to his own inspirations . 
The most I can do , is to say what course I should pursue if I were one of the deceased count's relatives or heirs . 
Pray tell me , my dear marquis , sighed Wilkie . 
You would render me an immense service by doing so . 
M. de Valorsay seemed to reflect for a moment and then he solemnly exclaimed I should feel that my honor required me to investigate every circumstance connected with this mysterious affair . 
Before receiving a man's estate , one must know the cause of his death , so as to avenge him if he has been foully murdered . 
For M. Wilkie the oracle had spoken . 
Such is my opinion exactly , he declared . 
But what course would you pursue , my dear marquis ? How would you set about solving this mystery ? I should appeal to the authorities . 
Yes , that would be an excellent idea but there is one slight drawback I don't know how to draw up such a communication . 
I know no more about it than you do yourself but any lawyer or notary will give you the necessary information . 
This last reason was more than sufficient to fix M. Wilkie's choice . 
Where can I find him ? he inquired . 
At his house he is always there at this hour . 
Come ! here is a scrap of paper and a pencil . 
You had better make a note of his address . 
Write 'Maumejan , Route de la Revolte . 
Tell him that I sent you , and he will treat you with the same consideration as he would show to me . 
He lives a long way off , but my brougham is standing in the courtyard so take it , and when your consultation is over , come back and dine with me . 
Ah ! you are too kind ! exclaimed M. Wilkie . 
You overpower me , my dear marquis , you do , upon my word ! I shall fly and be back in a moment . 
He went off looking radiant and a moment later the carriage which was to take him to M. Maumejan's was heard rolling out of the courtyard . 
The doctor had already taken up his hat and cane . 
You will excuse me for leaving you so abruptly , Monsieur le Marquis , said he , but I have an engagement to discuss a business matter . 
Indeed ! I am negotiating for the purchase of a dentist's establishment . 
What , you ? Yes , I. You may tell me that this is a downfall , but I will answer , 'It will give me a living . 
Medicine is becoming a more and more unremunerative profession . 
However hard a physician may work , he can scarcely pay for the water he uses in washing his hands . 
I have an opportunity of purchasing the business of a well established and well known dentist , in an excellent neighborhood . 
Why not avail myself of it ? Only one thing worries me the lack of funds . 
The marquis had expected the doctor would require remuneration for his services . 
Before compromising himself any further , M. Jodon wished to knew what compensation he was to receive . 
Really ? Upon my honor ! And when can you let me have the money ? In three or four days' time . 
The doctor was now ready to find traces of any poison whatsoever in the Count de Chalusse's exhumed remains . 
He pressed the marquis's hand and then went off , exclaiming Whatever happens you can count upon me . 
Left alone with the Viscount de Coralth , and consequently freed from all restraint , M. de Valorsay rose with a long drawn sigh of relief . 
What an interminable seance ! he growled . 
I'm well enough , he answered somewhat roughly . 
Your thoughts are not very pleasant , to judge from the look on your face . 
No. I was thinking of the fate that you are preparing for us . 
Oh ! A truce to disagreeable prophecies , please ! Besides , it's too late to draw back , or to even think of retreat . 
Alas ! that is the cause of my anxiety . 
If it hadn't been for my wretched past , which you have threatened me with like a dagger , I should long ago have left you to incur this danger alone . 
You were useful to me in times past , I admit . 
A gesture of anger escaped the marquis , but resolving to restrain himself , he made no rejoinder . 
It was not until after he had walked five or six times round the smoking room and grown more calm that he returned to the viscount's side . 
Really , I don't recognize you , he began . 
Is it really you who have turned coward ? And at what a moment , pray ? Why , on the very eve of success . 
I wish I could believe you . 
This morning I might have doubted , but now , thanks to that vain idiot who goes by the name of Wilkie , I am sure , perfectly , mathematically sure of success . 
Maumejan , who is entirely devoted to me , and who is the greediest , most avaricious scoundrel alive , will draw up such a complaint that Marguerite will sleep in prison . 
Moreover , other witnesses will be summoned . 
By what Casimir has said , you can judge what the other servants will say . 
This testimony will be sufficient to convict her of the robbery . 
As for the poisoning , you heard Dr . 
Can I depend upon him ? Evidently , if I pay without haggling . 
Very well I shall pay . 
But all this did not reassure M. de Coralth . 
The accusation will fall to the ground , said he , as soon as the famous vial from which M. de Chalusse took two spoonfuls is found . 
Excuse me it won't be found . 
But why ? Because I know where it is , my dear friend . 
It is in the count's escritoire , but it won't be there any longer on the day after to morrow . 
Who will remove it ? A skilful fellow whom Madame Leon has found for me . 
Everything has been carefully arranged . 
To morrow night at the latest Madame Leon will let this man into the Hotel de Chalusse by the garden gate , which she has kept the key of . 
Vantrasson , as the man is called , knows the management of the house , and he will break open the escritoire and take the vial away . 
You may say that there are seals upon the furniture , placed there by the justice of the peace . 
The viscount remarked , with an ironical air All that is perfect but the autopsy will reveal the falseness of the accusation . 
Naturally but an autopsy will require time , and that will suit my plans admirably . 
After eight or ten days' solitary confinement and several rigid examinations , Mademoiselle Marguerite's energy and courage will flag . 
What do you think she will reply to the man who says to her 'I love you , and for your sake I will attempt the impossible . 
Swear to become my wife and I will establish your innocence ? I think she will say 'Save me and I will marry you ! M. de Valorsay clapped his hands . 
Bravo ! he exclaimed you have spoken the truth . 
And the very next day I will go to the examining magistrate and say to him 'Marguerite a thief ! Ah , what a frightful mistake . 
Fortunately , the Count de Chalusse distrusted this man , and proof of his breach of trust is in existence . 
I have this proof in my hands . 
And I will show a letter establishing the truth of my assertion . 
No forebodings clouded the marquis's joy he saw no obstacles it seemed to him as if he had already triumphed . 
And this document is perfectly en regle , and unattackable . 
Maumejan , who has examined it , guarantees that the value of the count's estate cannot be less than ten millions . 
Five will go to Madame d'Argeles , or her son Wilkie , as their share of the property . 
The remaining five will be mine . 
Come , confess that the plan is admirable ! Admirable , undoubtedly but terribly complicated . 
When there are so many wheels within wheels , one of them is always sure to get out of order . 
Nonsense ! Besides , you have I don't know how many accomplices Maumejan , the doctor , Madame Leon , and Vantrasson , not counting myself . 
Will all these people perform their duties satisfactorily ? Each of them is as much interested in my success as I am myself . 
But we have enemies Madame d'Argeles , Fortunat Madame d'Argeles is about to leave Paris . 
If Fortunat is troublesome I will purchase his silence Maumejan has promised me money . 
But M. de Coralth had kept his strongest argument until the last . 
And Pascal Ferailleur ? said he . 
No M. de Valorsay had not forgotten him . 
You do not forget the man you have ruined and dishonored . 
Still , it was in a careless tone that ill accorded with his state of mind that the marquis replied The poor devil must be en route for America by this time . 
The viscount shook his head . 
That's what I've in vain been trying to convince myself of , said he . 
Ah ! if you knew him as well as I do , you wouldn't be so tranquil in mind ! He stopped short for the door had suddenly opened . 
The interruption made the marquis frown , but anger gave way to anxiety when he perceived Madame Leon , who entered the room out of breath and extremely red in the face . 
There wasn't a cab to be had ! she groaned . 
I came on foot , and ran the whole way . 
I'm utterly exhausted and so saying , she sank into an arm chair . 
M. de Valorsay had turned very pale . 
Defer your complaints until another time , he said , harshly . 
What has happened ? Tell me . 
And is that all ? One moment and you'll see . 
This morning Mademoiselle went out with Madame de Fondege to call on the Baroness Trigault . 
I do not know what took place there , but there must have been a terrible scene for they brought Mademoiselle Marguerite back unconscious , in one of the baron's carriages . 
Do you hear that , viscount ? exclaimed M. de Valorsay . 
Yes ! You shall have the explanation to morrow , answered M. de Coralth . 
I had thought she was ill and in bed , and I said to myself , 'This is very strange . 
So I hastened after her . 
Of course , I followed her . 
And what did I see ? Why , Mademoiselle paused to talk with a vagabond , clad in a blouse . 
They exchanged notes , and Mademoiselle Marguerite returned home . 
She must certainly suspect something . 
What is to be done ? If M. de Valorsay were frightened , he did not show it . 
Many thanks for your zeal , my dear lady , he replied , but all this is a mere nothing . 
Return home at once you will receive my instructions to morrow . 
It is true that M. Fortunat's clerk did not appear to the best advantage on this occasion . 
Still , strange as it may seem , Mademoiselle Marguerite did not once doubt the devotion of this strange auxiliary . 
Without an instant's hesitation she replied , I accept your services , monsieur . 
Chupin felt at least a head taller as he heard this beautiful young girl speak to him in a voice as clear and as sonorous as crystal . 
It would be a very good plan , but if it displeases you , we will say no more about it . 
And what do you wish ? To see you every day , so as to tell you what I've done , and to obtain such directions as I may require . 
I'm well aware that I can't go to M. de Fondege's door and ask to speak to you but there are other ways of seeing each other . 
Then , he resumed , you might come down and I would tell you the news besides , I might often help you by doing errands . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite reflected for a moment , and then bowing her head , she replied What you suggest is quite practicable . 
On and after to morrow evening I will watch for you and if I don't come down at the end of half an hour , you will know that I am unavoidably detained . 
Chupin ought to have been satisfied . 
But no , he had still another request to make and instinct , supplying the lack of education , told him that it was a delicate one . 
I've never seen Monsieur Ferailleur . 
Is he tall or short , light or dark , stout or thin ? I do not know . 
I might stand face to face with him without being able to say , 'It's he . 
But it would be quite a different thing if I only had a photograph of him . 
A crimson flush spread over Mademoiselle Marguerite's face . 
Still she answered , unaffectedly , I will give you M. Ferailleur's photograph to morrow , monsieur . 
Then I shall be all right ! exclaimed Chupin . 
Have no fears , mademoiselle , we shall outwit these scoundrels ! So far a silent witness of this scene , M. Fortunat now felt it his duty to interfere . 
He was not particularly pleased by his clerk's suddenly increased importance and yet it mattered little to him , for his only object was to revenge himself on Valorsay . 
Victor is a capable and trustworthy young fellow , mademoiselle , he declared he has grown up under my training , and I think you will find him a faithful servant . 
A have you finished , you old liar ? rose to Chupin's lips , but respect for Mademoiselle Marguerite prevented him from uttering the words . 
Then everything is decided , she said , pleasantly . 
And with a smile she offered her hand to Chupin as one does in concluding a bargain . 
If he had yielded to his first impulse he would have thrown himself on his knees and kissed this hand of hers , the whitest and most beautiful he had ever seen . 
As it was , he only ventured to touch it with his finger tips , and yet he changed color two or three times . 
What a woman ! he exclaimed , when she had left them . 
A perfect queen ! A man would willingly allow himself to be chopped in pieces for her sake and she's as good and as clever as she's handsome . 
Did you notice , monsieur , that she did not offer to pay me . 
She understood that I offered to work for her for my own pleasure , for my own satisfaction and honor . 
Heavens ! how I should have chafed if she had offered me money . 
Have you gone mad , Victor ? he inquired at last . 
Mad ! I ? not at all I'm only becoming He stopped short . 
He was going to add an honest man . 
But it is scarcely proper to talk about the rope in the hangman's house , and there are certain words which should never be pronounced in the presence of certain people . 
But I must be off about my business now , so till we meet again , monsieur . 
The foregoing conversation will explain how it happened that Madame Leon chanced to surprise her dear young lady in close conversation with a vagabond clad in a blouse . 
Victor Chupin was not a person to make promises and then leave them unfulfilled . 
Though he was usually unimpressionable , like all who lead a precarious existence , still , when his emotions were once aroused , they did not spend themselves in empty protestations . 
It became his fixed determination to find Pascal Ferailleur , and the difficulties of the task in no wise weakened his resolution . 
His starting point was that Pascal had lived in the Rue d'Ulm , and had suddenly gone off with his mother , with the apparent intention of sailing for America . 
This was all he knew positively , and everything else was mere conjecture . 
On leaving M. Fortunat's office , he hastened straight to the Rue d'Ulm , at the top of his speed . 
The concierge of the house where Pascal had formerly resided was by no means a polite individual . 
He mentioned , however , that this cab had been procured by Madame Ferailleur's servant woman , who lived only a few steps from the house . 
A moment later Chupin was knocking at this woman's door . 
She was a very worthy person , and bitterly regretted the misfortunes which had befallen her former employers . 
She confirmed the doorkeeper's story , but unfortunately she , too , had quite forgotten the number of the vehicle . 
All she could say was that she had hired it at the cab stand in the Rue Soufflot , and that the driver was a portly , pleasant faced man . 
Chupin repaired at once to the Rue Soufflot , where he found the man in charge of the stand in the most savage mood imaginable . 
He began by asking Chupin what right he had to question him , why he wished to do so , and if he took him for a spy . 
He added that his duty only consisted in noting the arrivals and departures of the drivers , and that he could give no information whatever . 
There was evidently nothing to be gained from this ferocious personage and yet Chupin bowed none the less politely as he left the little office . 
But poor and humble , without letters of recommendation , and with no other auxiliaries than his own shrewdness and experience , he had a great deal to contend against . 
If any one can help me out of this difficulty , it must be that fellow , he said to himself . 
Then he took a cab at his own expense , and drove with all possible speed to the main office of the Cab Company , in the Avenue de Segur . 
Nevertheless it was already ten o'clock when he arrived there . 
He was more fortunate than he had dared to hope . 
The man he wanted had charge of a certain department , and was compelled to return to the office every evening after dinner . 
On perceiving Chupin , he made a wrathful gesture , and his first words were I haven't got a penny . 
But Chupin smiled his most genial smile . 
What ! said he , do you fancy I've come to collect money from you here , and at this hour ? You don't know me . 
I merely came to ask a favor of you . 
The clerk's clouded face brightened . 
Since that is the case , pray take a seat , and tell me how I can serve you , he replied . 
At nine o'clock in the evening , on the sixteenth of October , a lady living in the Rue d'Ulm sent to the stand in the Rue Soufflot for a cab . 
Her baggage was placed upon it , and she went away no one knows where . 
Have you ten minutes to spare ? Ten days , if necessary , rejoined Chupin . 
So saying the clerk rose and went into the adjoining room , whence a moment later he returned carrying a large green box . 
This contains the October reports sent in every evening by the branch offices , he remarked in explanation . 
He next opened the box , glanced over the documents it contained , and joyfully exclaimed Here we have it . 
This is the report sent in by the superintendent of the cab stand in the Rue Soumot on the th October . 
Here is a list of the vehicles that arrived or left from a quarter to nine o'clock till a quarter past nine . 
Five cabs came in , but we need not trouble ourselves about them . 
Three went out bearing the numbers , , and . 
One of these three must have taken your employer's relative . 
Then I must question the three drivers . 
The clerk shrugged his shoulders . 
What is the use of doing that ? he said , disdainfully . 
Ah ! you don't understand the way in which we manage our business ! The drivers are artful , but the company isn't a fool . 
By expending a hundred and fifty thousand francs on its detective force every year , it knows what each cab is doing at each hour of the day . 
I will now look for the reports sent in respecting these three drivers . 
One of the three will give us the desired information . 
But as he belongs to this division he will be back sooner or later , so you had better wait . 
I will wait then only as I've had no dinner , I'll go out and get a mouthful to eat . 
I can promise you that M. Fortunat will send you back your note cancelled . 
Chupin was really very hungry , and so he rushed off to a little eating house which he had remarked on his way to the office . 
However , No. had not returned in his absence , so he stationed himself at the door to wait for it . 
His patience was severely tried , for it was past midnight when Chupin saw the long looked for vehicle enter the courtyard . 
The driver slowly descended from his box and then went into the cashier's office to pay over his day's earnings , and hand in his report . 
Then he came out again evidently bound for home . 
Whether he believed the story that Chupin told to excuse his questions or not , at all events he answered them very readily . 
Chupin felt decidedly crestfallen on hearing this . 
Not so , however , he had taken her straight to the station . 
Was Mademoiselle Marguerite deceived then ? Had Pascal really fled from his enemies without an attempt at resistance ? Such a course seemed impossible on his part . 
It did not take him long to find one , and having done so , he made him the best of friends in less than no time . 
However , when she went off , she remarked in a honeyed voice , but with an exceedingly impudent air I'll repay you for your kindness , my lad . 
For she didn't give me her name or address , the old witch ! he growled . 
She had better look out , if I ever get hold of her again ! But Chupin had already gone off , unmoved by his informant's grievances . 
Now that he had discovered the stratagem which Madame Ferailleur had employed to elude her pursuers , his conjectures were changed into certainties . 
He had not forgotten Madame Vantrasson . 
But to imagine any bond of interest between Pascal and such a woman as she was , seemed absurd in the extreme . 
However , as he found himself in such a plight and could not afford to let any chance escape , he repaired merely for form's sake to the Vantrasson establishment . 
There was no one in the shop but the landlord . 
Seated at a table , with a lighted candle near him , he was engaged in an occupation which would have set Chupin's mind working if he had noticed it . 
Vantrasson had taken some wax from a sealed bottle , and , after melting it at the flame of the candle , he let it drop slowly on to the table . 
However , Chupin did not remark this singular employment . 
He was engaged in mentally ejaculating , Good ! the old woman isn't here . 
And as his plan of campaign was already prepared , he entered without further hesitation . 
What can I do to serve you ? he asked , in a husky voice . 
I wished to speak with your wife . 
She works for a family in the morning . 
This was a gleam of light . 
Chupin had not thought of the only hypothesis that could explain what seemed inexplicable to him . 
However , he knew how to conceal his satisfaction , and so with an air of disappointment , he remarked That's too bad ! I shall be obliged to call again . 
So you have a secret to tell my wife ? Not at all . 
Won't I do as well , then ? I'll tell you how it is . 
Well , this is my errand either the clerk forgot to ask her for her receipt , or else he lost it . 
He can't find it anywhere . 
I came to ask your wife if she hadn't kept it . 
When she returns , please deliver my message and if she has the receipt , pray send it to me through the post . 
The ruse was not particularly clever , but it was sufficiently so to deceive Vantrasson . 
To whom am I to send this receipt ? he asked . 
To me , Victor Chupin , Faubourg Saint Denis , was the reply . 
Imprudent youth ! alas , he little suspected what a liberty M. Fortunat had taken with his name on the evening he visited the Vantrassons . 
But on his side the landlord of the Model Lodging House had not forgotten the name mentioned by the agent . 
He turned pale with anger on beholding his supposed creditor , and quickly slipping between the visitor and the door , he said So your name is Victor Chupin ? Yes , certainly . 
And you are in the employment of the Railway Company ? As I just told you . 
I did do something in that line formerly , he faltered . 
So you confess that you are a vile scoundrel ! he exclaimed . 
Fortunately , Chupin was very nimble . 
He did not lose his footing , but sprung over a table and used it as a rampart to shield himself from his dangerous assailant . 
In the open field , he could easily have protected himself but here in this narrow space , and hemmed in a corner , he felt that despite this barrier he was lost . 
What a devil of a mess ! he thought , as with wonderful agility he avoided Vantrasson's fist , a fist that would have felled an ox . 
He had an idea of calling for assistance . 
Ah ! it is you , Monsieur Maumejan ? he faltered , with a crestfallen air . 
It's nothing we were only in fun . 
I was preparing for it a moment ago . 
He had hurried out , his clothes in disorder , and himself not a little hurt but his delight made him lose all thought of his injuries . 
That's M. Ferailleur , he muttered , I'm sure of it , and I'm going to prove it . 
So saying he hid himself in the doorway of a vacant house a few paces distant from the Vantrassons' , and waited . 
Then as soon as M. Maumejan emerged from the Model Lodging House , he followed him . 
At that moment Chupin darted toward him , and softly called , M'sieur Ferailleur ! The young man turned instinctively . 
Then seeing his mistake , and feeling that he had betrayed himself , he sprang upon Chupin , and caught him by the wrists Scoundrel ! who are you ? he exclaimed . 
Who has hired you to follow me ! What do you want of me ? Not so fast , m'sieur ! Don't be so rough ! You hurt me . 
I'm sent by Mademoiselle Marguerite ! XVIII . 
O God ! send Pascal to my aid , prayed Mademoiselle Marguerite , as she left M. Fortunat's house . 
Now she understood the intrigue she had been the victim of but , instead of reassuring her the agent had frightened her , by revealing the Marquis de Valorsay's desperate plight . 
She realized what frenzied rage must fill this man's heart as he felt himself gradually slipping from the heights of opulence , down into the depths of poverty and crime . 
And who could tell what dangers threatened her personally ? For , though she knew the past , she could not read the future . 
But this weakness did not last long . 
Should she lose her energy ? Should her will fail her at the decisive moment ? No , a thousand times no ! she said to herself again and again . 
She found the house as when she left it , abandoned to the mercy of the servants the strangers sent the evening before from the employment office . 
Important matters still kept the General and his wife from home . 
The husband had to show his horses and the wife was intent upon shopping . 
As for Madame Leon , most of her time seemed to be taken up by the family of relatives she had so suddenly discovered . 
Let her come in , replied Marguerite , with unusual vivacity . 
Let her come in at once . 
A lady who looked some forty years of age , plainly dressed , but of distinguished appearance , was thereupon ushered into the room . 
Tears glittered in Mademoiselle Marguerite's eyes . 
The slightest token of sympathy is so sweet to the heart of the lonely and unfortunate ! How can I ever thank you , madame ? she faltered . 
By not attempting to thank me at all , and by reading this letter as soon as possible . 
The note she now produced ran as follows MY DEAR CHILD At last I am on the track of the thieves . 
With this information , we cannot fail to prove the guilt of the culprits sooner or later . 
You write me word that the Fondeges are spending money lavishly try and find out the names of the people they deal with , and communicate them to me . 
Once more , I tell you that I am sure of success . 
Courage ! Well ! said the spurious dressmaker , when she saw that Marguerite had finished reading the letter . 
What answer shall I take my brother in law ? Tell him that he shall certainly have the information he requires to morrow . 
To day , I can only give him the name of the carriage builder , from whom M. de Fondege has purchased his new carriages . 
Give it to me in writing , it is much the safest way . 
The assurance of being so effectually helped , had already increased her courage an hundredfold . 
The future that had seemed so gloomy only a moment before , had now suddenly brightened . 
The protection of Providence was made evident in an unmistakable manner . 
The lieutenant was a good looking fellow of twenty seven , or thereabouts , with laughing eyes and a heavy mustache . 
He made a great clanking with his spurs , and wore the somewhat theatrical uniform of the th Hussars rather ostentatiously . 
Seated opposite to him at table , the young girl could not refrain from furtively watching the man whom they wished to compel her to marry . 
Never had she seen such intense self complacency coupled with such utter mediocrity . 
It was evident that he was doing his best to produce a favorable impression but as the dinner progressed , his conversation became rather venturesome . 
It was the good cheer that loosened his tongue . 
However , strange to say , after the coffee was served , the conversation languished till at last it died out almost entirely . 
Madame de Fondege was the first to disappear on the pretext that some domestic affairs required her attention . 
The General was the next to rise and go out , in order to smoke a cigar and finally Madame Leon made her escape without saying a word . 
So Mademoiselle Marguerite was left quite alone with Lieutenant Gustave . 
It was evident enough to the young girl that this had been preconcerted and she asked herself what kind of an opinion M. and Madame de Fondege could have of her delicacy . 
The proceeding made her so indignant that she was on the point of rising from the table and of retiring like the others , when reason restrained her . 
She said to herself that perhaps she might gain some useful information from this young man , and so she remained . 
His face was crimson , and he seemed by far the more embarrassed of the two . 
At last , after an interval of irksome silence , he ventured to exclaim Mademoiselle , should you like to be an officer's wife ? I don't know , answered Marguerite . 
The effort that he was making in his intense desire to be eloquent and persuasive absorbed the attention of all his faculties . 
Then permit me to explain , mademoiselle , he resumed . 
We meet this evening for the first time , but our acquaintance is not the affair of a day . 
For I know not how long my father and mother have continually been chanting your praises . 
'Mademoiselle Marguerite does this Mademoiselle Marguerite does that . 
They never cease talking of you , declaring that heart , wit , talent , beauty , all womanly charms are united in your person . 
And they have never wearied of telling me that the man whom you honored with your preference would be the happiest of mortals . 
However , so far I had no desire to marry , and I distrusted them . 
In fact , I had conceived a most violent prejudice against you . 
Yes , upon my honor ! I felt sure that I should dislike you but I have seen you and all is changed . 
As soon as my eyes fell upon you , I experienced a powerful revulsion of feeling . 
Permit me allow me to explain , he stammered . 
But she declined to listen . 
Who has told you that you could address such words to me with impunity ? she continued . 
Your parents , I suppose I daresay they told you to be bold . 
And that is why they have left us , and why no servant has appeared . 
Ah ! they make me pay dearly for the hospitality they have given me ! As she spoke the tears started from her eyes and glistened on her long lashes . 
Whom did you fancy you were speaking to ? she added . 
Would you have been so audacious if I had a father or a brother to resent your insults ? The lieutenant started as if he had been lashed with a whip . 
Ah ! you are severe ! he exclaimed . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite shrugged her shoulders ironically , and remained for a moment silent . 
But she remembered that a quarrel and a rupture with the Fondeges would certainly imperil the success of her plans . 
Excuse me you forget that my mother Your mother has only known me for a week . 
An expression of intense surprise appeared on the lieutenant's face . 
Is it possible ? he murmured . 
Your father has met me five or six times at the table of the Count de Chalusse , who was his friend but what does he know of me ? resumed Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
My parents told me that you were the daughter of the Count de Chalusse , mademoiselle . 
What proof have they of it ? They ought to have told you that I was an unfortunate foundling , with no other name than that of Marguerite . 
An incredulous smile curved the lieutenant's lips . 
He fancied that Mademoiselle Marguerite only wished to prove his disinterestedness , and this thought restored his assurance . 
Perhaps you are exaggerating a little , mademoiselle , he replied . 
I am not exaggerating I possess but ten thousand francs in the world I swear it by all that I hold sacred . 
That would not even be the dowry required of an officer's wife by law , muttered the lieutenant . 
You suppose that I am rich , monsieur , she resumed at last . 
I understand that only too well . 
If I was , you ought to shun me as you would shun a criminal , for I could only be wealthy through a crime . 
Mademoiselle Yes , through a crime . 
After M. de Chalusse's death , two million francs that had been placed in his escritoire for safe keeping , could not be found . 
Who stole the money ? I myself have been accused of the theft . 
Your father must have told you of this , as well as of the cloud of suspicion that is still hanging over me . 
She paused , for the lieutenant had become whiter than his shirt . 
Good God ! he exclaimed in a tone of horror , as if a terrible light had suddenly broken upon his mind . 
I have been beguiled by false hopes . 
I entreat you to say that you forgive me . 
I forgive you , monsieur . 
I am only a poor devil of a lieutenant , he resumed , with no other fortune than my epaulettes , no other prospects than an uncertain advancement . 
I have been foolish and thoughtless . 
I have committed many acts of folly but there is nothing in my past life for which I have cause to blush . 
I will leave nothing undone to preserve my honor in the eyes of the world , and to right those who have been wronged . 
Promise me not to interfere with my plans . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite trembled like a leaf . 
She now realized her terrible imprudence . 
As she remained silent , he continued wildly I entreat you . 
Do you wish me to beg you at your feet ? Ah ! it was a terrible sacrifice that he demanded of her . 
But how could she remain obdurate in the presence of such intense anguish ? I will remain neutral , she replied , that is all I can promise . 
Thank you , he said , sadly , suspecting that perhaps it was already too late thank you . 
Great God ! what is coming now ? she murmured . 
She thought she could understand the unfortunate young man's intentions , and she listened with a throbbing heart , expecting to hear a stormy explanation between his parents and himself . 
In point of fact , she almost immediately afterward heard the lieutenant inquire in a stern , imperious voice Where is my father ? The General has just gone to his club . 
And my mother ? A friend of hers called a few moments ago to take her to the opera . 
What madness ! That was all . 
The outer door opened and closed again with extreme violence , and then Marguerite heard nothing save the sneering remarks of the servants . 
But delirium seemed to have seized them since , thanks to a still inexplicable crime , they had suddenly found themselves in possession of an immense fortune . 
Perhaps in this wild pursuit of pleasure , in the haste they displayed to satisfy their covetous longings , they hoped to forget or silence the threatening voice of conscience . 
Such was Mademoiselle Marguerite's conclusion but she was not long left to undisturbed meditation . 
By the lieutenant's departure the restrictions which had been placed upon the servants' movements had evidently been removed , for they came in to clear the table . 
Having with some little difficulty obtained a candle from one of these model servants , Mademoiselle Marguerite now retired to her own room . 
Marguerite had no wish to reflect over what had occurred . 
This duty accomplished , she took a book and went to bed , hoping to drive away her gloomy thoughts by reading . 
But the hope was vain . 
A little after midnight Madame de Fondege returned from the opera , and at once proceeded to reprimand her maid for not having lighted a fire . 
The General returned some time afterward , and he was evidently in the best of spirits . 
Even then she did not slumber long . 
It was scarcely half past seven when she was aroused by a strange commotion and a loud sound of hammering . 
I have come to take you away , my dear child , she exclaimed . 
The owner of the house has decided to make some repairs , and the workmen have already invaded our apartments . 
The General has taken flight , let us follow his example so make yourself beautiful and we'll go at once . 
As for Lieutenant Gustave , she did not even mention his name . 
Accustomed to the superb equipages of the Chalusse establishment , Mademoiselle Marguerite did not consider the much lauded brougham at all remarkable . 
At the most , it was very showy , having apparently been selected with a view to attracting as much attention as possible . 
Madame de Fondege was not in a mood to consider an objection that morning . 
She was evidently in a nervous state of mind , extremely restless and excited indeed , it seemed impossible for her to keep still . 
In default of something better to do , she visited at least a dozen shops , asking to see everything , finding everything frightful , and purchasing without regard to price . 
It might have been fancied that she wished to buy all Paris . 
About ten o'clock she dragged Marguerite to Van Klopen's . 
Why can't we go to a restaurant , we two ? Many of the most distinguished ladies are in the habit of doing so . 
You will see how people will look at us ! I am sure it will amuse you immensely . 
Well , such being the case , we'll go and ask Baroness Trigault to give us our breakfast . 
You will see a lovely woman . 
And addressing the coachman she instructed him to drive to the Trigault mansion in the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque . 
He did not like his wife's friend , and he usually avoided her . 
But precisely because he was acquainted with the General's crime and Pascal's plans , he thought it politic to seem amiable . 
So , on recognizing Madame de Fondege through the carriage window , he hastened forward with outstretched hand to assist her in alighting . 
Did you come to take breakfast with us ? he asked . 
That would be a most delightful The remainder of the sentence died unuttered upon his lips . 
His face became crimson , and the cigar he was holding slipped from his fingers . 
He had just perceived Mademoiselle Marguerite , and his consternation was so apparent that Madame de Fondege could not fail to remark it however , she attributed it to the girl's remarkable beauty . 
This is Mademoiselle de Chalusse , my dear baron , said she , the daughter of the noble and esteemed friend whom we so bitterly lament . 
Ah ! it was not necessary to tell the baron who this young girl was he knew it only too well . 
He was not overcome for long a thought of vengeance speedily flashed through his mind . 
It seemed to him that Providence itself offered him the means of putting an end to an intolerable situation . 
Regaining his self control by a powerful effort , he preceded Madame de Fondege through the magnificent apartments of the mansion , lightly saying My wife is in her boudoir . 
She will be delighted to see you . 
But first of all , I have a good secret to confide to you . 
Then opening a door , he exclaimed in a mocking voice Madame Trigault , allow me to present to you the daughter of the Count de Chalusse . 
And adding in a whisper This is your mother , young girl , he pushed the astonished Marguerite into the room , closed the door , and returned to Madame de Fondege . 
Paler than her white muslin wrapper , the Baroness Trigault sprang from her chair . 
Inaccessible to any emotion but vanity , the baroness had never shed a tear over her husband's sufferings . 
She was sure of her absolute power over him . 
For such was her power , and she often exercised it mercilessly . 
However , this time the baroness trembled . 
Her usual shrewdness had not deserted her , and she perfectly understood all that Marguerite's presence in that house portended . 
Since her husband brought this young girl her daughter to her he must know everything , and have taken some fatal resolution . 
In such a case , how could she exist ? She would be compelled to spend her last years in the same poverty that had made her youth so wretched . 
Silent and motionless , they confronted each other for a moment which seemed a century to both of them . 
The resemblance which had astonished Pascal could not fail to strike them , for it was still more noticeable now that they stood face to face . 
And your mother ? I don't know her madame , and I have no desire to know her . 
Disconcerted by this brief but implacable reply , Madame Trigault hung her head . 
What could I have to say to my mother ? continued Marguerite . 
That I hate her ? My courage would fail me to do so . 
But you have no means of discovering her ? In this you are greatly mistaken , madame . 
After the Count de Chalusse's death , a package of letters , a glove and some withered flowers were found in one of the drawers of his escritoire . 
The baroness started back as if a yawning chasm had suddenly opened at her feet . 
My letters ! she exclaimed . 
Ah ! wretched woman that I am , he kept them . 
It is all over ! I am lost , for of course , they have been read ? The ribbon securing them together has never been untied . 
Is that true ? Don t deceive me ! Where are they , then where are they ? Under the protection of the seals affixed by the justice of the peace . 
Madame Trigault tottered , as if she were about to fall . 
Then it is only a reprieve , she moaned , and I am none the less ruined . 
Those cursed letters will necessarily be read , and all will be discovered . 
I hated my husband I loved the Count de Chalusse madly , and he had sworn that he would marry me if ever I became a widow . 
The plot failed , but it was none the less real , positive , palpable and those letters are a proof of it . 
But they shall never be read no not if I am obliged to set fire to the Hotel de Chalusse with my own hand . 
Now the count's constant terror , the fear with which this woman had inspired him , were explained . 
He was an accomplice he also had written no doubt , and she had preserved his letters as he had preserved hers . 
Crime had bound them indissolubly together . 
Horrified beyond expression , Marguerite freed herself from Madame Trigault's grasp . 
I swear to you , madame , that everything any human being can do to save your letters shall be done by me , she exclaimed . 
And have you any hope of success ? Yes , replied the girl , remembering her friend , the magistrate . 
Moved by a far more powerful emotion than any she had ever known before , the baroness uttered an exclamation of joy . 
Spare yourself , madame , and spare me , the humiliation of an unnecessary explanation . 
Marguerite ! Good God ! you repulse me . 
One has no right to deny one's own mother . 
But the young girl passed on . 
XIX Baron Trigault still held Madame de Fondege a prisoner in the hall . 
Although by no means overshrewd , she suspected some great mystery , some bit of scandal , perhaps , and her eyes never once wandered from the door leading to the boudoir . 
At last this door opened and Mademoiselle Marguerite reappeared . 
Madame de Fondege sprang forward . 
What is the matter , my dearest ? Alas ! the poor girl was utterly overcome . 
It is but a trifle , she faltered . 
Help ! cried Madame de Fondege , help , she is dying ! a physician ! But there was no need of a physician . 
Do you feel better my darling ? inquired Madame de Fondege at last . 
Ah ! you gave me a terrible fright see how I tremble . 
But the worthy lady's fright was as nothing in comparison with the curiosity that tortured her . 
It was so powerful , indeed , that she could not control it . 
What has happened ? she asked . 
Nothing , madame , nothing . 
But I am subject to such attacks . 
I was very cold , and the heat of the room made me feel faint . 
Don't tire the poor child , he said to Madame de Fondege . 
The best thing you can do would be to take her home and put her to bed . 
I agree with you but unfortunately , I have sent away my brougham with orders not to return for me until one o'clock . 
Is that the only difficulty ? If so , you shall have a carriage at once , my dear madame . 
So saying , the baron made a sign to one of the servants , and the man started on his mission at once . 
Madame de Fondege was silent but furious . 
He is actually putting me out of doors , she thought . 
But Madame de Fondege was wrong , for she vainly plied the girl with questions all the way from the Rue de la Ville l'Eveque to the Rue Pigalle . 
She could only obtain this unvarying and obstinate reply Nothing has happened . 
What do you suppose could have happened ? Never in her whole life had Madame de Fondege been so incensed . 
The blockhead ! she mentally exclaimed . 
Then I will leave you . 
You know Van Klopen expects me again at one o'clock precisely and I have not breakfasted yet . 
Remember that my servants are at your disposal , and don't hesitate to call them . 
You are at home , recollect . 
It was not without considerable difficulty not without being compelled to stop and rest several times on her way up stairs that Mademoiselle Marguerite succeeded in reaching the apartments of the Fondege family . 
Where is madame ? inquired the servant who opened the door . 
Will she return to dinner ? I don't know . 
M. Gustave has been here three times already he was very angry when he found that there was no one at home he went on terribly . 
Besides , the workmen have turned everything topsy turvy . 
However , Marguerite had already reached her own room , and thrown herself on the bed . 
Her brave spirit still retained its energy but the flesh had succumbed . 
Every vein and artery throbbed with violence , and while a chill seemed to come to her heart , her head burned as if it had been on fire . 
Marguerite asked herself whether the old magistrate would have it in his power to help her in this respect . 
Perhaps not , and then what could she do ? She asked herself if she had not been too cruel , too severe . 
Guilty or not , the baroness was still her mother . 
Had she the right to be pitiless , when by stretching out her hand she might , perhaps , have rescued the wretched woman from her terrible life . 
Thus thinking , the young girl sat alone and forgotten in her little room . 
The hours went by , and daylight had begun to wane , when suddenly a shrill whistle resounded in the street , under her windows . 
It came upon her like an electric shock , and with a bound she sprang to her feet . 
Was she mistaken ? No for on listening she heard the cry resound a second time , even more shrill and prolonged than before . 
This was no time for hesitation , and so she went down stairs at once . 
Hope sent new blood coursing through her veins and endowed her with invincible energy . 
On reaching the street door , she paused and looked around her . 
At a short distance off she perceived a young fellow clad in a blouse , who was apparently engaged in examining the goods displayed in a shop window . 
Despite his position , he hurriedly exclaimed Follow me at a little distance in the rear until I stop . 
Marguerite , obeyed him in breathless suspense . 
The young fellow was our friend Victor Chupin , now somewhat the worse for his encounter with Vantrasson that same morning . 
His face was considerably disfigured , and one of his eyes was black and swollen nevertheless he was in a state of ecstatic happiness . 
Happy , and yet anxious for , as he preceded Mademoiselle Marguerite , he said to himself How shall I tell her that I have succeeded ? There must be no folly . 
If I tell her the news suddenly , she will most likely faint , so I must break the news gently . 
On reaching the Rue Boursault , he turned the corner , and paused , waiting for Mademoiselle Marguerite to join him . 
What is the news ? she anxiously asked . 
Everything is progressing finely slowly , but finely . 
At last he decided on a plan . 
First of all , mademoiselle , brace yourself against the wall , and now stand firm . 
Now , are you all right ? Well , I have found M. Ferailleur ! Chupin's precaution was a wise one , for Marguerite tottered . 
Such a success , so quickly gained , was indeed astounding . 
Is it possible ? she murmured . 
So possible that I have a letter for you from M. Ferailleur in my pocket mademoiselle . 
Here it is I am to wait for an answer . 
She took the note he handed her , broke the seal with trembling hand , and read as follows We are approaching the end , my dearest . 
One step more and we shall triumph . 
But I must see you to day at any risk . 
Leave the house this evening at eight o'clock . 
My mother will be waiting for you in a cab , at the corner of the Rue Pigalle and the Rue Boursault . 
Come , and let no fear of arousing suspicions of the Fondeges deter you . 
They are henceforth powerless to injure you . 
PASCAL I will go ! replied Marguerite at once , careless of the obstacles that might impede the fulfilment of her promise . 
For it was quite possible that serious difficulties might arise . 
Madame Leon , who had been invisible since the morning , might suddenly reappear , or the General and his wife might return to dinner . 
Pascal had spoken , that sufficed , and she was determined to obey him implicitly , cost what it might . 
If he advised such a step , it was because he deemed it best and necessary and she willingly submitted to the instructions of the man in whom she felt such unbounded confidence . 
She was close to the Rue Notre Dame de Lorette and so without more ado she hurried to the establishment of Carjat the photographer . 
He was fortunately disengaged , and she at once obtained from him a proof of the compromising letter written by the Marquis de Valorsay to Madame Leon . 
She placed it carefully in her pocket , thanked the photographer , and then hurried back to the Rue Pigalle to wait for the hour appointed in Pascal's letter . 
Fortunately none of her unpleasant apprehensions were realized . 
The dinner hour came and passed , and still the house remained deserted . 
The workmen had gone off and the laughter and chatter of the servants in the kitchen were the only sounds that broke the stillness . 
Faint for want of food for she had taken no nourishment during the day Marguerite had considerable difficulty in obtaining something to eat from the servants . 
At last , however , they gave her some soup and cold meat , served on a corner of the bare table in the dining room . 
It was half past seven when she finished this frugal meal . 
She waited a moment , and then fearing she might keep Madame Ferailleur waiting , she went down into the street . 
A cab was waiting at the corner of the Rue Boursault , as indicated . 
Its windows were lowered , and in the shade one could discern the face and white hair of an elderly lady . 
He had evidently received his instructions in advance , as well as the promise of a magnificent gratuity . 
They had never met before , and their anxiety to become acquainted was intense , for they each felt that the other would exert a decisive influence upon her life . 
All of Madame Ferailleur's friends would undoubtedly have been surprised at the step she had taken , and yet it was quite in accordance with her character . 
As long as she had entertained any hope of preventing this marriage she had not hesitated to express and even exaggerate her objections and repugnance . 
But her point of view was entirely changed when conquered by the strength of her son's passion , she at last yielded a reluctant consent . 
Having considered the subject , she had decided that it was not proper for her son's betrothed to run about the streets alone in the evening . 
Again and again had Pascal spoken of his mother's prejudices and the inflexibility of her principles . 
But he had also spoken of her dauntless energy , the nobility of her nature , and of her love and devotion to him . 
With Marguerite , moreover , one consideration one which she would scarcely have admitted , perhaps outweighed all others Madame Ferailleur was Pascal's mother . 
For that reason alone , if for no other , she was prepared to worship her . 
How fervently she blessed this noble woman , who , a widow . 
and ruined in fortune by an unprincipled scoundrel , had bravely toiled to educate her son , making him the man whom Marguerite had freely chosen from among all others . 
She would have knelt before this grand but simple hearted mother had she dared she would have kissed her hands . 
And a poignant regret came to her heart when she remembered her own mother , Baroness Trigault , and compared her with this matchless woman . 
Meanwhile the cab had passed the outer boulevards , and was now whirling along the Route d'Asnieres , as fast as the horse could drag it . 
We are almost there , remarked Madame Ferailleur , speaking for the first time . 
Marguerite's response was inaudible , she was so overcome with emotion . 
The driver had just turned the corner of the Route de la Revolte and it was not long before he checked his panting horse . 
Look , mademoiselle , said Madame Ferailleur again , this is our home . 
Upon the threshold , bareheaded , and breathless with impatience and hope , stood a man who was counting the seconds with the violent throbbings of his heart . 
She had not even time to look around her , ere he had placed her in an arm chair , and fallen on his knees before her . 
At last I see you again , my beloved Marguerite , he exclaimed . 
You are mine nothing shall part us again ! They sobbed in each other's arms . 
How can I tell you all that I have suffered ! said Pascal , whose voice was hoarse with feeling . 
The papers have told you all the details , I suppose . 
Marguerite rose to her feet . 
You thought that ! she exclaimed . 
You believed that I doubted you ? I ! Like you , I have been accused of robbery myself . 
I had seen Madame Leon , and had trusted her with a letter for you in which I entreated you to grant me five minutes' Conversation . 
Alas ! I never received it . 
I know that now but then I was deceived . 
I went to the little garden gate to await your coming , but it was Madame Leon who appeared . 
She brought me a note written in pencil and signed with your name , bidding me an eternal farewell . 
And , fool that I was , I did not see that the note was a forgery ! Mademoiselle Marguerite was amazed . 
The veil was now torn aside , and the truth revealed to her . 
Now she remembered Madame Leon's embarrassment when she met her returning from the garden on the night following the count's death . 
Any other woman might have believed herself deserted under such circumstances , but not I. I felt sure that you had not fled in ignominious fashion . 
I was convinced that you had only concealed yourself for a time in order to strike your enemies more surely . 
Do not shame me , Marguerite . 
It is true that of us two I showed myself the weaker . 
But Madame Ferailleur was watching . 
She pointed to the clock , and earnestly exclaimed Time is passing , my son . 
Each moment that is wasted endangers our success . 
Should any suspicion bring Madame Vantrasson here , all would be lost . 
She cannot come upon us unawares , my dear mother . 
Chupin has promised not to lose sight of her . 
If she stirs from her shop , he will hasten here and throw a stone against the shutters to warn us . 
But even this did not satisfy Madame Ferailleur . 
she insisted , that Mademoiselle Marguerite must be at home again by ten o'clock , if she consents to the ordeal you feel obliged to impose upon her . 
This was the voice of duty recalling Pascal to the stern realities of life . 
Circumstances have compelled me to act without consulting you . 
Have I done right or wrong ? You shall judge . 
And without stopping to listen to the girl's protestations , he rapidly explained how he had managed to win M. de Valorsay's confidence , discover his plans , and become his trusted accomplice . 
This scoundrel's plan is very simple , he continued . 
He is determined to marry you . 
Why ? Because , though you are not aware of it , you are rich , and the sole heiress to the fortune of the Count de Chalusse , your father . 
This surprises you , does it not ? Very well ! listen to me . 
Deceived by the Marquis de Valorsay , the Count de Chalusse had promised him your hand . 
These arrangements were nearly completed , though you had not been informed of them . 
In fact , everything had been decided . 
At the outset , however , a grave difficulty had presented itself . 
The marquis wished your father to acknowledge you before your marriage , but this he refused to do . 
'It would expose me to the most frightful dangers , he declared . 
'However , I will recognize Marguerite as my daughter in my will , and , at the same time , leave all my property to her . 
But the marquis would not listen to this proposal . 
'I don't doubt your good intentions , my dear count , said he , but suppose this will should be contested , your property might pass into other hands . 
This difficulty put a stop to the proceedings for some time . 
The marquis asked for guarantees the other refused to give them until , at last , M. de Chalusse discovered an expedient which would satisfy both parties . 
He confided to M. de Valorsay's keeping a will in which he recognized you as his daughter , and bequeathed you his entire fortune . 
This document , the validity of which is unquestionable , has been carefully preserved by the marquis . 
He has not spoken of its existence and he would destroy it rather than restore it to you at present . 
But as soon as you became his wife , he intended to produce it and thus obtain possession of the count's millions . 
Ah ! the old justice of the peace was not mistaken , murmured Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Pascal did not hear her . 
All his faculties were absorbed in the attempt he was making to give a clear and concise explanation , for he had much to say , and it was growing late . 
As for the enormous sum you have been accused of taking , he continued , I know what has become of it it is in the hands of M. de Fondege . 
And it explains everything which may have seemed strange and incomprehensible to you . 
The letter which M. de Chalusse received on the day of his death was written by his sister . 
She asked in it for her share of the family estate , threatening him with a terrible scandal if he refused to comply with her request . 
Had the count decided to brave this scandal rather than yield ? We have good reason to suppose so . 
He had sworn thousands of times that neither husband nor wife should ever have a penny of the large fortune which really belonged to them . 
Believing that a lawsuit was now inevitable , and wishing to conceal his wealth , he was greatly embarrassed by the large amount of money he had on hand . 
We shall never know what passed between your father and the General we can only surmise . 
And believe , my dear count , in the absolute devotion of your old comrade , GENERAL DE FONDEGE . 
Who can have furnished you with these particulars ? she inquired . 
The Marquis de Valorsay , my dearest and I will explain how he was enabled to do so . 
M. de Fondege wrote the address of his 'old comrade' on this letter , which was folded and sealed , but not enclosed in an envelope . 
M. de Chalusse proposed to post it himself , so that the official stamp might authenticate its date . 
But on reflection , he became uneasy . 
He felt that this tiny , perishable scrap of paper would be the only proof of the deposit which he had confided to M. de Fondege's honor . 
This scrap might be lost , burned , or stolen . 
Then what would happen ? He had so often seen trustees betray the confidence of which they had seemed worthy . 
So M. de Chalusse racked his brains to discover a means of protection from an improbable but possible misfortune . 
A few moments later he got into the cab in which he was stricken down with apoplexy . 
Extraordinary as Pascal's explanations must have seemed to her , Marguerite did not doubt their accuracy in the least . 
Then it is the copy of this letter which you saw in the possession of the Marquis de Valorsay ? Yes . 
And the original ? M. de Fondege alone can tell what has become of that . 
It is evident that he has somehow succeeded in obtaining possession of it . 
But on this subject I have only conjectures to offer . 
The vilest scoundrels have their scruples . 
Besides , a marriage with their son would protect them against any possible mischance in the future . 
I have tried in vain to collect material proofs of the conspiracy against me . 
It is only by proving the guilt of the Marquis de Valorsay and the Viscount de Coralth that I can establish my innocence , and so far I am powerless to do so . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite's face brightened with supreme joy . 
Then I can serve you , in my turn , my only love , she exclaimed . 
Ah ! blessed be God who inspired me , and who thus rewards me for an hour of courage . 
My poor father's plan also occurred to me , Pascal . 
Was it not strange ? The material proof of your innocence which you have sought for in vain , is in my possession , written and signed by the Marquis de Valorsay . 
Like M. de Fondege , he believes that the letter which proves his guilt is annihilated . 
He burned it himself , and yet it exists . 
Ah ! this is the scoundrel's death warrant . 
Nor is this all , resumed Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
There are other letters which will prove that this plot was the marquis's work and which give the name of his accomplice , Coralth . 
And these letters are in the possession of a man of dubious integrity , who was once the marquis's ally , but who has now become his enemy . 
He is known as Isidore Fortunat , and lives in the Place de la Bourse . 
Marguerite felt that Madame Ferailleur's keen glance was riveted upon her . 
So , desirous of making a full confession , she hastily exclaimed My conduct may have seemed strange in a young girl , Pascal . 
I did weep and pray but I also struggled and fought . 
In the hour of peril I found myself endowed with some of the courage and energy which distinguished the poor women of the people among whom I formerly earned my bread . 
Ah , you are a noble and courageous girl ! exclaimed Madame Ferailleur . 
This is the only reason that can justify the horrible expedient I have to suggest . 
M. de Valorsay , as you know , has boasted of his power to overcome your resistance , and he really believes that he possesses this power . 
Why I have not killed him again and again when he has been at my mercy , I can scarcely understand . 
The only thing that gave me power to restrain myself was my desire for as sure , as terrible , and as public a revenge as the humiliation he inflicted on me . 
His plan for your ruin is such as only a scoundrel like himself could conceive . 
His name is Wilkie Gordon . 
The marquis has acquired great influence over him , and has persuaded him that it is his duty to denounce you to the authorities . 
He has , in short , accused you of defrauding the heirs of the Chalusse estate of two millions of francs and also of poisoning the count . 
The girl shrugged her shoulders disdainfully . 
As for the robbery , we have an answer to that , she answered , and as regards the poisoning really the accusation is too absurd ! But Pascal still looked gloomy . 
The matter is more serious than you suppose , he replied . 
They have found a physician a vile , cowardly scoundrel who for a certain sum has consented to appear in support of the accusation . 
Jodon , I presume ! Yes and this is not all . 
The count's escritoire contains the vial of medicine of which he drank a portion on the day of his death . 
Well , to morrow night , Madame Leon will open the garden gate of the Hotel de Chalusse and admit a rascal who will abstract the vial . 
Now she understood the fiendish cunning of the plot . 
It might ruin me ! she murmured . 
M. de Valorsay wishes you to consider yourself as irretrievably lost , and then he intends to offer to save you on condition that you consent to marry him . 
I should say , however , that M. Wilkie is ignorant of the atrocious projects he is abetting . 
They are known only to the marquis and M. de Coralth and it is I who , under the name of Maumejan , act as their adviser . 
It was to me that the marquis sent M. Wilkie for assistance in drawing up this accusation . 
It finished by demanding a thorough investigation . 
And M. Wilkie copied and signed this document , and carried it to the prosecution office himself . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite sank half fainting into an arm chair . 
You have done this ! she faltered . 
It was necessary , my daughter , whispered Madame Ferailleur . 
Yes , it was necessary , absolutely necessary , repeated Pascal , as you will see . 
Before it can interfere , the law must have material , tangible proof , convincing to the senses . 
When they are examined by a magistrate , who is conversant with the whole affair , can they deny their guilt ? No certainly not . 
And while this search is going on , all your enemies , reassured by your arrest , will be at a grand soiree given by Baron Trigault . 
I shall be there as well . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite had mastered her momentary weakness . 
She rose to her feet , and in a firm voice exclaimed You have acted rightly . 
Ah ! there was no other way . 
And yet I wished to see you , to learn if this course were too repugnant to you . 
She interrupted him with a gesture . 
When shall I be arrested ? she asked , quietly . 
This evening or to morrow . 
Very well ! I have only one request to make . 
The Fondeges have a son who has no hand in the affair , but who will be more severely punished than his parents , if we do not spare them . 
Could you not I can do nothing , Marguerite . 
Marguerite raised her forehead to Pascal for his parting kiss , and went away accompanied by Madame Ferailleur , who escorted her to the corner of the Rue Boursault . 
The General and his wife had returned home in advance of Marguerite . 
She found them sitting in the drawing room , with distorted faces and teeth chattering with fear . 
With them was a bearded man who , as soon as she appeared , exclaimed You are Mademoiselle Marguerite , are you not ? I arrest you in the name of the law . 
And without more ado he led her away . 
Money , which nowadays has taken the place of the good fairies of former times , had gratified M. Wilkie's every longing in a single night . 
Without any period of transition , dreamlike as it were , he had passed from what he called straitened circumstances to the splendid enjoyment of a princely fortune . 
Madame d'Argeles's renunciation had been so correctly drawn up , that as soon as he presented his claims and displayed his credentials he was placed in possession of the Chalusse estate . 
It is true that a few trifling difficulties presented themselves . 
Twenty horses neighed and stamped in his stables there were at least a dozen carriages in the coach house . 
Still , he gave them to understand that this was only a temporary arrangement . 
A man like himself , living in this progressive age , could scarcely be expected to content himself with what had satisfied the Count de Chalusse . 
For I have my plans , he remarked to Casimir , but let Paris wait awhile . 
He repudiated his former friends . 
Costard and Serpillon , pretended viscounts though they were , were quite beneath the notice of a Gordon Chalusse , as M. Wilkie styled himself on his visiting cards . 
However , he purchased their share of Pompier de Nanterre , feeling convinced that this remarkable steeplechaser had a brilliant future before him . 
He did not trouble himself to any great extent about his mother . 
Like every one else , he knew that she had disappeared , but nothing further . 
He intended to send him to Coventry later on , but just now M. Wilkie was too useful to be ignored . 
So he had introduced him to his club , and was seen with him everywhere in the Bois , at the restaurants , and the theatres . 
So M. de Valorsay had invited Gordon Chalusse to accompany him to Baron Trigault's approaching fete . 
They were both in the best of spirits . 
The viscount's apprehensions had been entirely dispelled and the marquis had quite forgotten the twinges of pain in his injured limb . 
The Hotel de Chalusse will be deserted , and Madame Leon and Vantrasson can operate at their leisure . 
It was ten o'clock when M. Wilkie made his appearance . 
Come , my good friends ! said he , my carriage is below . 
They started off at once , and five minutes later they were ushered into the presence of Baron Trigault , who received M. Wilkie as if he had never seen him before . 
There was quite a crowd already . 
Who can these people be ? whispered the marquis to M. de Coralth . 
They look like lawyers or magistrates . 
A strange rumor was in circulation among the guests . 
Many of them declared where could they have heard such a thing ? that in consequence of a quarrel with her husband , Madame Trigault had left Paris the evening before . 
They even went so far as to repeat her parting words to the Baron You will never see me again , she had said . 
The report WAS true , however . 
But M. de Coralth did not trouble himself much about the baroness now . 
But M. de Coralth , having heard the name , wished to see the man who had aided and advised the marquius so effectually . 
He abruptly turned , and as he did so the words he would have spoken died upon his lips . 
He became livid , his eyes seemed to start from their sockets , and it was with difficulty that he ejaculated He ! Who ? inquired the astonished marquis . 
Look ! M. de Valorsay did so , and to his utter amazement he perceived a numerous party in the rear of the man announced under the name of Maumejan . 
The marquis could no longer fail to understand the truth . 
He realized who Maumejan really was , and the audacious comedy he had been duped by . 
He was so frightfully agitated that five or six persons sprang forward exclaiming What is the matter , marquis ? Are you ill ? But he made no reply . 
He felt that he was caught in a trap , and he glanced wildly around him seeking for some loophole of escape . 
However , the word of command had evidently been given . 
Suddenly all the guests scattered about the various drawing rooms poured into the main hall , and the doors were closed . 
Gentlemen , he began , in a commanding tone , this is M. Pascal Ferailleur , the honorable man who was falsely accused of cheating at cards at Madame d'Argeles's house . 
You owe him a hearing . 
But only for a moment . 
Then when he had finished his explanations he added , in a still more commanding voice , Now look you can read the culprits' guilt on their faces . 
One is the scoundrel known to you as the Viscount de Coralth , but Paul Violaine is his true name . 
But Pascal did not heed him . 
The other criminal is the Marquis de Valorsay , he added , in the same ringing tone . 
Pascal did not mention his name . 
But it was not absolutely necessary he should do so , and besides , he remembered Marguerite's entreaty respecting the son . 
However , while the young lawyer was speaking , the marquis had summoned all his energy and assurance to his aid . 
Desperate as his plight might be , he would not surrender . 
This is an infamous conspiracy , he exclaimed . 
Baron , you shall atone for this . 
The man's an impostor ! he lies ! all that he says is false ! Yes , it is false ! echoed M. de Coralth . 
But a clamor arose , drowning these protestations , and the most opprobrious epithets could be heard on every side . 
How will you prove your assertion ? cried M. de Valorsay . 
Don't try that dodge on us ! shouted Chupin . 
Vantrasson and mother Leon have confessed everything . 
The wretched Valorsay felt that all was over that he was irretrievably lost . 
Ah ! well , yes ! he exclaimed yes , all that you have just heard is true . 
I was sinking , and I tried to save myself as best I could . 
Beggars cannot be choosers I staked my all upon a single die . 
If I had won , you would have been at my feet but I have lost and you spurn me . 
Pray , don't pretend to be so distressingly virtuous ! I was ruined that is the long and short of it . 
Do not deny it , for not one among you has a more uncompromising conscience , more moral firmness , or more generous aspirations than I once possessed . 
You are pursuing what I pursued . 
You desire what I desired a life of luxury , brief if it must be , but happy a life of gayety , wild excitement , and dissipation . 
I am in it now . 
I await you there , for there you will surely , necessarily , inevitably come . 
Ah , ha ! you will not then think my downfall so very strange . 
Let me pass ! make way ! if you please . 
He has a warrant ! The marquis's frenzied assurance deserted him . 
He turned even paler than he already was if that were possible , and reeled like an ox but partially stunned by the butcher's hammer . 
It was time he did so , for the commissary of police was already upon the threshold . 
Which of you gentlemen is the Marquis de Valorsay ? he asked . 
Which of you is Paul Violaine , alias the Viscount de The sharp report of firearms suddenly interrupted him . 
Every one at once rushed to the little room , where the wretched men had been conducted . 
There extended , face upward , on the floor , lay the Marquis de Valorsay , with his brains oozing from his fractured skull , and his right hand still clutching a revolver . 
It was not till later that people learned what precautions the baron had taken . 
On the table in that room he had laid two revolvers , and two packages containing ten thousand francs each . 
The viscount had not hesitated . 
Pascal Ferailleur and Mademoiselle Marguerite de Chalusse were married at the church of Saint Etienne du Mont , only a few steps from the Rue d'Ulm . 
But such was the fact , nevertheless . 
She has yet to receive any token of remembrance from her son . 
As for her husband , she supposes he is dead or incarcerated in some prison . 
It is to Madame Gordon that the Fondeges are often indebted for bread . 
Oh ! those Fondeges ! M. Fortunat only speaks of them with horror . 
But he is loud in his praises of Madame Marguerite , who repaid him the forty thousand francs he had advanced to M. de Valorsay . 
Nothing is known concerning M. de Coralth but his wife has disappeared , to the great disappointment of M. Mouchon . 
As a dentist , Dr . 
As for M. Wilkie , you can learn anything you wish to know concerning him in the newspapers , for his sayings , doings , and movements , are constantly being chronicled . 
The reporters exhaust all the resources of their vocabulary in describing his horses , carriages , and stables , and the gorgeous liveries of his servants . 
His changes of residence are always mentioned his brilliant sayings are quoted . 
He is a social success he is admired , fondled , and flattered . 
He makes a great stir in the fashionable world in fact , he reigns over it like a king . 
