The Fight in the Village . 
'The Deepest Dungeon Below the Castle Moat' . 
The Little Black Girl and Julius Caesar . 
The Sorry Present and the Expelled Little Boy . 
The Shipwreck on the Tin Islands . 
The Heart's Desire CHAPTER THE PSAMMEAD There were once four children who spent their summer holidays in a white house , happily situated between a sandpit and a chalkpit . 
One day they had the good fortune to find in the sandpit a strange creature . 
Its eyes were on long horns like snail's eyes , and it could move them in and out like telescopes . 
It had ears like a bat's ears , and its tubby body was shaped like a spider's and covered with thick soft fur and it had hands and feet like a monkey's . 
It told the children whose names were Cyril , Robert , Anthea , and Jane that it was a Psammead or sand fairy . 
It was old , old , old , and its birthday was almost at the very beginning of everything . 
And it had been buried in the sand for thousands of years . 
But it still kept its fairylikeness , and part of this fairylikeness was its power to give people whatever they wished for . 
You know fairies have always been able to do this . 
At the moment of parting Jane said politely 'I wish we were going to see you again some day . 
And the Psammead , touched by this friendly thought , granted the wish . 
Of course I knew they would meet it , because it was a beast of its word , and when it said a thing would happen , that thing happened without fail . 
The world , they felt , and indeed had some reason to feel , was full of wonderful things and they were really the sort of people that wonderful things happen to . 
So they looked forward to the summer holiday but when it came everything was different , and very , very horrid . 
Father had to go out to Manchuria to telegraph news about the war to the tiresome paper he wrote for the Daily Bellower , or something like that , was its name . 
And Mother , poor dear Mother , was away in Madeira , because she had been very ill . 
And The Lamb I mean the baby was with her . 
I hope you notice that they were not cowardly enough to cry till their Father had gone they knew he had quite enough to upset him without that . 
But when he was gone everyone felt as if it had been trying not to cry all its life , and that it must cry now , if it died for it . 
Tea with shrimps and watercress cheered them a little . 
The watercress was arranged in a hedge round a fat glass salt cellar , a tasteful device they had never seen before . 
But it was not a cheerful meal . 
So she stopped crying , and thought instead . 
'Look here , said Anthea . 
This word dated from the awful day when Cyril had carelessly wished that there were Red Indians in England and there had been . 
Old Nurse had been in the habit of letting lodgings , till Father gave her the children to take care of . 
And her rooms were furnished 'for letting' . 
Now it is a very odd thing that no one ever seems to furnish a room 'for letting' in a bit the same way as one would furnish it for living in . 
This room had heavy dark red stuff curtains the colour that blood would not make a stain on with coarse lace curtains inside . 
The carpet was yellow , and violet , with bits of grey and brown oilcloth in odd places . 
The fireplace had shavings and tinsel in it . 
There was a very varnished mahogany chiffonier , or sideboard , with a lock that wouldn't act . 
There were hard chairs far too many of them with crochet antimacassars slipping off their seats , all of which sloped the wrong way . 
The table wore a cloth of a cruel green colour with a yellow chain stitch pattern round it . 
Over the fireplace was a looking glass that made you look much uglier than you really were , however plain you might be to begin with . 
And there were painted glass vases that never had any flowers in , and a painted tambourine that no one ever played , and painted brackets with nothing on them . 
'And maple framed engravings of the Queen , the Houses of Parliament , the Plains of Heaven , and of a blunt nosed woodman's flat return . 
There were two books last December's Bradshaw , and an odd volume of Plumridge's Commentary on Thessalonians . 
There were but I cannot dwell longer on this painful picture . 
It was indeed , as Jane said , very different . 
'Let's have a palaver , said Anthea again . 
'What about ? said Cyril , yawning . 
'There's nothing to have ANYTHING about , said Robert kicking the leg of the table miserably . 
'I don't want to play , said Jane , and her tone was grumpy . 
Anthea tried very hard not to be cross . 
'Look here , she said , 'don't think I want to be preachy or a beast in any way , but I want to what Father calls define the situation . 
Do you agree ? 'Fire ahead , said Cyril without enthusiasm . 
We all know the reason we're staying here is because Nurse couldn't leave her house on account of the poor learned gentleman on the top floor . 
And there was no one else Father could entrust to take care of us and you know it's taken a lot of money , Mother's going to Madeira to be made well . 
'Yes , I know , said Anthea in a hurry , 'but don't let's think about how horrid it all is . 
I mean we can't go to things that cost a lot , but we must do SOMETHING . 
And I know there are heaps of things you can see in London without paying for them , and I thought we'd go and see them . 
We are all quite old now , and we haven't got The Lamb Jane sniffed harder than before . 
'I mean no one can say No because of him , dear pet . 
And I vote we see everything there is , and let's begin by asking Nurse to give us some bits of bread and we'll go to St James's Park . 
There are ducks there , I know , we can feed them . 
Only we must make Nurse let us go by ourselves . 
'Hurrah for liberty ! said Robert , 'but she won't . 
'Yes she will , said Jane unexpectedly . 
'Three cheers for thoughtful Jane , cried Cyril , now roused at last from his yawning despair . 
'I say , let's go now . 
So they went , old Nurse only begging them to be careful of crossings , and to ask a policeman to assist in the more difficult cases . 
They had promised to be home by dark , but it was July , so dark would be very late indeed , and long past bedtime . 
They started to walk to St James's Park , and all their pockets were stuffed with bits of bread and the crusts of toast , to feed the ducks with . 
They started , I repeat , but they never got there . 
, they came into the little interesting criss crossy streets that held the most interesting shops of all the shops where live things were sold . 
There was one shop window entirely filled with cages , and all sorts of beautiful birds in them . 
'It must be fairly beastly to be a bird in a cage , said Cyril . 
'Grrrrr , he seemed to say , as he looked at them from the back corner of his eye 'YOU won't buy me . 
Of course they could not buy any of the dogs . 
But the children thought , if the smallest was all that money , the biggest would run into thousands so they went on . 
'I don't suppose old Nurse would mind VERY much , said Jane . 
'Rabbits are most awfully tame sometimes . 
I expect it would know her voice and follow her all about . 
'Worms are as bad , said Anthea , 'and eels and slugs I think it's because we don't like things that haven't got legs . 
'Father says snakes have got legs hidden away inside of them , said Robert . 
'Yes and he says WE'VE got tails hidden away inside us but it doesn't either of it come to anything REALLY , said Anthea . 
'I hate things that haven't any legs . 
'Come back oh , come back ! said the voice , rather louder but still softly 'stoop down and pretend to be tying up your bootlace I see it's undone , as usual . 
It was dusty and dirty , and its fur was untidy and ragged . 
It had hunched itself up into a miserable lump , and its long snail's eyes were drawn in quite tight so that they hardly showed at all . 
I've bitten him more than once , and I've made myself look as common as I can . 
He's never had a glance from my beautiful , beautiful eyes . 
Tell the others I'm here but tell them to look at some of those low , common beasts while I'm talking to you . 
The creature inside mustn't think you care much about me , or he'll put a price upon me far , far beyond your means . 
I remember in the dear old days last summer you never had much money . 
Oh I never thought I should be so glad to see you I never did . 
It sniffed , and shot out its long snail's eyes expressly to drop a tear well away from its fur . 
'Tell the others I'm here , and then I'll tell you exactly what to do about buying me . 
'Don't look at that hutch look at the white rat . 
Now you are not to look at that hutch whatever I say . 
He stood in front of it to prevent mistakes . 
'Now get yourselves ready for a great surprise . 
In that hutch there's an old friend of ours DON'T look ! Yes it's the Psammead , the good old Psammead ! it wants us to buy it . 
It says you're not to look at it . 
Look at the white rat and count your money ! On your honour don't look ! The others responded nobly . 
Cyril stooped again , busying himself with the other bootlace and listened for the Psammead's further instructions . 
'Go in , said the Psammead , 'and ask the price of lots of other things . 
Then say , What do you want for that monkey that's lost its tail the mangy old thing in the third hutch from the end . 
If he names a bigger price than you can afford , say you wish you had the money . 
'But you can't give us wishes . 
I've promised never to have another wish from you , said the bewildered Cyril . 
Then the four children filed into the shop . 
'How much do you want for that white rat ? asked Cyril . 
'Eightpence , was the answer . 
'And the guinea pigs ? 'Eighteenpence to five bob , according to the breed . 
'And the lizards ? 'Ninepence each . 
'Oh ! wait a minute , said the wretched Cyril , feeling how foolishly yet well meaningly he had carried out the Psammead's instructions . 
'Just tell me one thing . 
What do you want for the mangy old monkey in the third hutch from the end ? The shopman only saw in this a new insult . 
'Mangy young monkey yourself , said he 'get along with your blooming cheek . 
Then he scratched his ear suspiciously , for he was a sharp business man , and he knew the ring of truth when he heard it . 
His hand was bandaged , and three minutes before he would have been glad to sell the 'mangy old monkey' for ten shillings . 
Now 'Ho ! 'e does , does 'e , he said , 'then two pun ten's my price . 
He's not got his fellow that monkey ain't , nor yet his match , not this side of the equator , which he comes from . 
And the only one ever seen in London . 
Ought to be in the Zoo . 
'We've only twenty three shillings and fivepence , said Cyril , rattling the money in his pocket . 
'Twenty three farthings and somebody's own cheek , said the dealer , for he did not believe that Cyril had so much money . 
There was a miserable pause . 
Then Anthea remembered , and said 'Oh ! I WISH I had two pounds ten . 
There lay five bright half sovereigns . 
'Why , I HAVE got it after all , she said 'here's the money , now let's have the Sammy , . 
The dealer looked hard at the money , but he made haste to put it in his pocket . 
'I only hope you come by it honest , he said , shrugging his shoulders . 
He scratched his ear again . 
'Here , take the brute , said the shopman , squeezing the Psammead so tight that he nearly choked it . 
'It's bit me to the marrow , it have . 
The man's eyes opened as Anthea held out her arms . 
'But you can't take it home like that , Cyril said , 'we shall have a crowd after us , and indeed two errand boys and a policeman had already collected . 
'I can't give you nothink only a paper bag , like what we put the tortoises in , said the man grudgingly . 
'Well ! he said , 'if that there don't beat cockfighting ! But p'raps you've met the brute afore . 
'Yes , said Cyril affably , 'he's an old friend of ours . 
'If I'd a known that , the man rejoined , 'you shouldn't a had him under twice the money . 
'Owever , he added , as the children disappeared , 'I ain't done so bad , seeing as I only give five bob for the beast . 
But then there's the bites to take into account ! The children trembling in agitation and excitement , carried home the Psammead , trembling in its paper bag . 
When they got it home , Anthea nursed it , and stroked it , and would have cried over it , if she hadn't remembered how it hated to be wet . 
When it recovered enough to speak , it said 'Get me sand silver sand from the oil and colour shop . 
The children hid the bath under the girls' bed , and had supper . 
Old Nurse had got them a lovely supper of bread and butter and fried onions . 
She was full of kind and delicate thoughts . 
When Anthea woke the next morning , the Psammead was snuggling down between her shoulder and Jane's . 
'You have saved my life , it said . 
'I know that man would have thrown cold water on me sooner or later , and then I should have died . 
I saw him wash out a guinea pig's hutch yesterday morning . 
I'm still frightfully sleepy , I think I'll go back to sand for another nap . 
Wake the boys and this dormouse of a Jane , and when you've had your breakfasts we'll have a talk . 
'Don't YOU want any breakfast ? asked Anthea . 
'I daresay I shall pick a bit presently , it said 'but sand is all I care about it's meat and drink to me , and coals and fire and wife and children . 
With these words it clambered down by the bedclothes and scrambled back into the bath , where they heard it scratching itself out of sight . 
'Well ! said Anthea , 'anyhow our holidays won't be dull NOW . 
We've found the Psammead again . 
'No , said Jane , beginning to put on her stockings . 
'We shan't be dull but it'll be only like having a pet dog now it can't give us wishes . 
'Oh , don't be so discontented , said Anthea . 
'If it can't do anything else it can tell us about Megatheriums and things . 
And when they parted from the Psammead their last wish had been that they should meet it again . 
And that was as well , for she would never have consented to allow the girls to keep an animal and a bath of sand under their bed . 
It stretched and shook itself . 
'You must have bolted your breakfast most unwholesomely , it said , 'you can't have been five minutes over it . 
'We've been nearly an hour , said Anthea . 
'Come you know you promised . 
'Now look here , said the Psammead , sitting back on the sand and shooting out its long eyes suddenly , 'we'd better begin as we mean to go on . 
It won't do to have any misunderstanding , so I tell you plainly that 'Oh , PLEASE , Anthea pleaded , 'do wait till we get to the others . 
They'll think it most awfully sneakish of me to talk to you without them do come down , there's a dear . 
She knelt before the sand bath and held out her arms . 
Anthea wrapped it in her pinafore and carried it downstairs . 
It was welcomed in a thrilling silence . 
At last Anthea said , 'Now then ! 'What place is this ? asked the Psammead , shooting its eyes out and turning them slowly round . 
'It's a sitting room , of course , said Robert . 
'Then I don't like it , said the Psammead . 
'Never mind , said Anthea kindly 'we'll take you anywhere you like if you want us to . 
'Don't be silly , it said sharply . 
'Of course , it's quite natural that you should like your brothers and sisters to know exactly how good and unselfish you were . 
'I wish you wouldn't , said Jane . 
What was it you were going to say when she stopped you ? 'I'll tell you , said the Psammead , 'since you're so anxious to know . 
I was going to say this . 
You've saved my life and I'm not ungrateful but it doesn't change your nature or mine . 
You're still very ignorant , and rather silly , and I am worth a thousand of you any day of the week . 
'Of course you are ! Anthea was beginning but it interrupted her . 
See ? It's what I think that matters . 
'I know , said Cyril , 'it always was , if you remember . 
'Well , said the Psammead , 'then that's settled . 
We're to be treated as we deserve . 
I with respect , and all of you with but I don't wish to be offensive . 
'Do tell us , said Anthea . 
'I know you're awfully clever , but even with all your cleverness , I don't believe you can possibly know how how respectfully we do respect you . 
Don't we ? The others all said yes and fidgeted in their chairs . 
Robert spoke the wishes of all when he said 'I do wish you'd go on . 
So it sat up on the green covered table and went on . 
'When you'd gone away , it said , 'I went to sand for a bit , and slept . 
I was tired out with all your silly wishes , and I felt as though I hadn't really been to sand for a year . 
'To sand ? Jane repeated . 
Jane yawned the mention of bed made her feel sleepy . 
'All right , said the Psammead , in offended tones . 
'I'm sure I don't want to tell you a long tale . 
A man caught me , and I bit him . 
And he put me in a bag with a dead hare and a dead rabbit . 
And he took me to his house and put me out of the bag into a basket with holes that I could see through . 
And I bit him again . 
Now , what's your news ? 'There's not quite so much biting in our story , said Cyril regretfully 'in fact , there isn't any . 
Father's gone to Manchuria , and Mother and The Lamb have gone to Madeira because Mother was ill , and don't I just wish that they were both safe home again . 
Merely from habit , the Sand fairy began to blow itself out , but it stopped short suddenly . 
'I forgot , it said 'I can't give you any more wishes . 
'No but look here , said Cyril , 'couldn't we call in old Nurse and get her to say SHE wishes they were safe home . 
'No go , said the Psammead . 
'It's just the same as your wishing yourself if you get some one else to wish for you . 
'But it did yesterday with the man in the shop , said Robert . 
'Ah yes , said the creature , 'but you didn't ASK him to wish , and you didn't know what would happen if he did . 
That can't be done again . 
'Then you can't help us at all , said Jane 'oh I did think you could do something I've been thinking about it ever since we saved your life yesterday . 
I thought you'd be certain to be able to fetch back Father , even if you couldn't manage Mother . 
And Jane began to cry . 
'Now DON'T , said the Psammead hastily 'you know how it always upsets me if you cry . 
I can't feel safe a moment . 
Look here you must have some new kind of charm . 
'That's easier said than done . 
'Not a bit of it , said the creature 'there's one of the strongest charms in the world not a stone's throw from where you bought me yesterday . 
If you can only buy THAT , you will be able to have your heart's desire . 
The children looked at each other and then at the Psammead . 
Then Cyril coughed awkwardly and took sudden courage to say what everyone was thinking . 
But this charm's quite different . 
I haven't GOT to do this for you , it's just my own generous kindness that makes me tell you about it . 
So it's bound to be all right . 
See ? 'Don't be cross , said Anthea , 'Please , PLEASE don't . 
You see , it's all we've got we shan't have any more pocket money till Daddy comes home unless he sends us some in a letter . 
But we DO trust you . 
'No , don't ! said everybody and Jane added , 'We are quite mind made up don't you see we are ? Let's get our hats . 
Will you come with us ? 'Of course , said the Psammead 'how else would you find the shop ? So everybody got its hat . 
The Psammead was put into a flat bass bag that had come from Farringdon Market with two pounds of filleted plaice in it . 
Now it contained about three pounds and a quarter of solid Psammead , and the children took it in turns to carry it . 
'It's not half the weight of The Lamb , Robert said , and the girls sighed . 
The Psammead poked a wary eye out of the top of the basket every now and then , and told the children which turnings to take . 
'How on earth do you know ? asked Robert . 
'I can't think how you do it . 
And the Psammead said sharply , 'No I don't suppose you can . 
At last they came to THE shop . 
There were officers' epaulets and doctors' lancets . 
There were tea caddies inlaid with red turtle shell and brass curly wurlies , plates of different kinds of money , and stacks of different kinds of plates . 
There was a beautiful picture of a little girl washing a dog , which Jane liked very much . 
The Psammead put its head quite out of the fish basket to look in the window , when Cyril said 'There's a tray there with rubbish in it . 
And then its long snail's eyes saw something that made them stretch out so much that they were as long and thin as new slate pencils . 
Do you see ? 'Is it that thing something like a horse shoe ? asked Cyril . 
'And red , like the common sealing wax you do up parcels with ? 'Yes , that's it , said the Psammead . 
'Now , you do just as you did before . 
Ask the price of other things . 
That blue buckle would do . 
Then the man will get the tray out of the window . 
I think you'd better be the one , it said to Anthea . 
It was something like this Drawing omitted . 
and it was made of a red , smooth , softly shiny stone . 
'I've got it , Anthea whispered , just opening her hand to give the others a glimpse of it . 
We can't stand here like stuck pigs looking at it in the street . 
The parlour in Fitzroy Street was a very flat background to magic happenings . 
Down in the country among the flowers and green fields anything had seemed and indeed had been possible . 
But it was hard to believe that anything really wonderful could happen so near the Tottenham Court Road . 
But the Psammead was there and it in itself was wonderful . 
And it could talk and it had shown them where a charm could be bought that would make the owner of it perfectly happy . 
So the four children hurried home , taking very long steps , with their chins stuck out , and their mouths shut very tight indeed . 
They went so fast that the Psammead was quite shaken about in its fish bag , but it did not say anything perhaps for fear of attracting public notice . 
They got home at last , very hot indeed , and set the Psammead on the green tablecloth . 
'Now then ! said Cyril . 
But the Psammead had to have a plate of sand fetched for it , for it was quite faint . 
When it had refreshed itself a little it said 'Now then ! Let me see the charm , and Anthea laid it on the green table cover . 
'It was all there was , said Anthea , with timid firmness . 
She knew it was not her fault . 
'There should be another piece , said the Psammead , 'and a sort of pin to fasten the two together . 
'Isn't half any good ? 'Won't it work without the other bit ? 'It cost seven and six . 
'Oh , bother , bother , bother ! 'Don't be silly little idiots ! said everyone and the Psammead altogether . 
Then there was a wretched silence . 
Cyril broke it 'What shall we do ? 'Go back to the shop and see if they haven't got the other half , said the Psammead . 
'I'll go to sand till you come back . 
Cheer up ! Even the bit you've got is SOME good , but it'll be no end of a bother if you can't find the other . 
So Cyril went to the shop . 
And the Psammead to sand . 
And the other three went to dinner , which was now ready . 
And old Nurse was very cross that Cyril was not ready too . 
'Well ? they all said , hoping against hope on the front door step . 
'No go , Cyril answered 'the man said the thing was perfect . 
He was simply nasty that's what he was , and I want my dinner . 
It was plain that Cyril was not pleased . 
The unlikeliness of anything really interesting happening in that parlour lay like a weight of lead on everyone's spirits . 
Cyril had his dinner , and just as he was swallowing the last mouthful of apple pudding there was a scratch at the door . 
Anthea opened it and in walked the Psammead . 
'Well , it said , when it had heard the news , 'things might be worse . 
Only you won't be surprised if you have a few adventures before you get the other half . 
You want to get it , of course . 
'Rather , was the general reply . 
'And we don't mind adventures . 
'No , said the Psammead , 'I seem to remember that about you . 
Well , sit down and listen with all your ears . 
Eight , are there ? Right I am glad you know arithmetic . 
Now pay attention , because I don't intend to tell you everything twice over . 
Father Mother the darling Lamb all far away . 
Then a warm , comfortable feeling flowed through her . 
The Psammead was here , and at least half a charm , and there were to be adventures . 
'Now , said the Psammead cheerily , 'you are not particularly nice , nor particularly clever , and you're not at all good looking . 
Still , you've saved my life oh , when I think of that man and his pail of water ! so I'll tell you all I know . 
At least , of course I can't do that , because I know far too much . 
But I'll tell you all I know about this red thing . 
'Do ! Do ! Do ! Do ! said everyone . 
'Well , then , said the Psammead . 
'The complete Amulet can keep off all the things that make people unhappy jealousy , bad temper , pride , disagreeableness , greediness , selfishness , laziness . 
Evil spirits , people called them when the Amulet was made . 
Don't you think it would be nice to have it ? 'Very , said the children , quite without enthusiasM . 
'And it can give you strength and courage . 
'That's better , said Cyril . 
'I suppose it's nice to have that , said Jane , but not with much interest . 
'And it can give you your heart's desire . 
'Now you're talking , said Robert . 
'Of course I am , retorted the Psammead tartly , 'so there's no need for you to . 
'Heart's desire is good enough for me , said Cyril . 
'Yes , but , Anthea ventured , 'all that's what the WHOLE charm can do . 
There's something that the half we've got can win off its own bat isn't there ? She appealed to the Psammead . 
'Yes , it said 'the half has the power to take you anywhere you like to look for the other half . 
This seemed a brilliant prospect till Robert asked 'Does it know where to look ? The Psammead shook its head and answered , 'I don't think it's likely . 
'Then , said Robert , 'we might as well look for a needle in a bottle of hay . 
Yes it IS bottle , and not bundle , Father said so . 
'Not at all , said the Psammead briskly , 'you think you know everything , but you are quite mistaken . 
The first thing is to get the thing to talk . 
'Can it ? Jane questioned . 
I suppose you can read . 
'Oh yes ! Everyone was rather hurt at the question . 
'Well , then all you've got to do is to read the name that's written on the part of the charm that you've got . 
And as soon as you say the name out loud the thing will have power to do well , several things . 
The red charm was passed from hand to hand . 
'There's no name on it , said Cyril at last . 
'Nonsense , said the Psammead 'what's that ? 'Oh , THAT ! said Cyril , 'it's not reading . 
It looks like pictures of chickens and snakes and things . 
This was what was on the charm Hieroglyphics omitted . 
'I've no patience with you , said the Psammead 'if you can't read you must find some one who can . 
The Psammead stamped a furry foot angrily . 
'I wish I'd never seen you , it said 'you aren't any more good than so many stone images . 
Not so much , if I'm to tell the truth . 
Is there no wise man in your Babylon who can pronounce the names of the Great Ones ? 'There's a poor learned gentleman upstairs , said Anthea , 'we might try him . 
He has a lot of stone images in his room , and iron looking ones too we peeped in once when he was out . 
Old Nurse says he doesn't eat enough to keep a canary alive . 
He spends it all on stones and things . 
'Try him , said the Psammead , 'only be careful . 
If he knows a greater name than this and uses it against you , your charm will be of no use . 
Bind him first with the chains of honour and upright dealing . 
And then ask his aid oh , yes , you'd better all go you can put me to sand as you go upstairs . 
I must have a few minutes' peace and quietness . 
CHAPTER THE PAST The learned gentleman had let his dinner get quite cold . 
The chop was on the end of a long table that ran down one side of the room . 
The table had images on it and queer shaped stones , and books . 
And there were glass cases fixed against the wall behind , with little strange things in them . 
The cases were rather like the ones you see in jewellers' shops . 
The 'poor learned gentleman' was sitting at a table in the window , looking at something very small which he held in a pair of fine pincers . 
He had a round spy glass sort of thing in one eye which reminded the children of watchmakers , and also of the long snail's eyes of the Psammead . 
The gentleman was very long and thin , and his long , thin boots stuck out under the other side of his table . 
He did not hear the door open , and the children stood hesitating . 
You know what a mummy case is like , of course ? If you don't you had better go to the British Museum at once and find out . 
So everyone said , 'Oh ! rather loud , and their boots clattered as they stumbled back . 
'It's us that beg yours , said Cyril politely . 
'We are sorry to disturb you . 
'Come in , said the gentleman , rising with the most distinguished courtesy , Anthea told herself . 
'I am delighted to see you . 
Won't you sit down ? No , not there allow me to move that papyrus . 
He cleared a chair , and stood smiling and looking kindly through his large , round spectacles . 
'He treats us like grown ups , whispered Robert , 'and he doesn't seem to know how many of us there are . 
'Hush , said Anthea , 'it isn't manners to whisper . 
You say , Cyril go ahead . 
We knew you were in because we heard you sneeze while we were waiting . 
'Not at all , said the gentleman 'do sit down . 
'He has found out there are four of us , said Robert , as the gentleman cleared three more chairs . 
He put the things off them carefully on the floor . 
The first chair had things like bricks that tiny , tiny birds' feet have walked over when the bricks were soft , only the marks were in regular lines . 
The second chair had round things on it like very large , fat , long , pale beads . 
And the last chair had a pile of dusty papers on it . 
'Oh ! said Cyril blushing , 'but we only know them to look at , except Latin and I'm only in Caesar with that . 
The gentleman took off his spectacles and laughed . 
His laugh sounded rusty , Cyril thought , as though it wasn't often used . 
'Of course ! he said . 
'I'm sure I beg your pardon . 
I think I must have been in a dream . 
You are the children who live downstairs , are you not ? Yes . 
I have seen you as I have passed in and out . 
And you have found something that you think to be an antiquity , and you've brought it to show me ? That was very kind . 
I should like to inspect it . 
'I'm afraid we didn't think about your liking to inspect it , said the truthful Anthea . 
'I'm afraid I don't quite follow you , said the gentleman , with gentle nervousness . 
'Well , it's this way , said Cyril . 
'We've got part of a charm . 
And the Sammy I mean , something told us it would work , though it's only half a one but it won't work unless we can say the name that's on it . 
He now said 'Bless me ! more than once , adding , 'Who told you all this ? 'I can't tell you , said Cyril . 
'I'm very sorry , but I can't . 
Some faint memory of a far off childhood must have come to the learned gentleman just then , for he smiled . 
'I see , he said . 
'It is some sort of game that you are engaged in ? Of course ! Yes ! Well , I will certainly promise . 
With politeness , but without interest , the gentleman took it . 
But after the first glance all his body suddenly stiffened , as a pointer's does when he sees a partridge . 
'Excuse me , he said in quite a changed voice , and carried the charm to the window . 
He looked at it he turned it over . 
He fixed his spy glass in his eye and looked again . 
Only Robert made a shuffling noise with his feet till Anthea nudged him to shut up . 
At last the learned gentleman drew a long breath . 
'Where did you find this ? he asked . 
We bought it at a shop . 
Jacob Absalom the name is not far from Charing Cross , said Cyril . 
'We gave seven and sixpence for it , added Jane . 
'Yes , said Cyril , 'we know that , so of course we want to keep it . 
'All right , said Cyril , 'we won't . 
But we don't want to sell it . 
We want to make it do things . 
'I suppose you can play at that as well as at anything else , said the gentleman 'but I'm afraid the days of magic are over . 
'They aren't REALLY , said Anthea earnestly . 
'You'd see they aren't if I could tell you about our last summer holidays . 
And can you read the name ? 'Yes , I can read it . 
'Will you tell it us ? 'The name , said the gentleman , 'is Ur Hekau Setcheh . 
'Ur Hekau Setcheh , repeated Cyril . 
I do hope we haven't taken up too much of your time . 
'Not at all , said the gentleman . 
'And do let me entreat you to be very , very careful of that most valuable specimen . 
They said 'Thank you' in all the different polite ways they could think of , and filed out of the door and down the stairs . 
Half way down to the first landing she turned and ran up again . 
The door was still open , and the learned gentleman and the mummy case were standing opposite to each other , and both looked as though they had stood like that for years . 
The gentleman started when Anthea put her hand on his arm . 
So I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind my reminding you , because you don't seem to have anyone else to do it . 
She glanced at the mummy case IT certainly did not look as though it would ever think of reminding people of their meals . 
The learned gentleman looked at her for a moment before he said 'Thank you , my dear . 
It was a kindly thought . 
No , I haven't anyone to remind me about things like that . 
He sighed , and looked at the chop . 
'It looks very nasty , said Anthea . 
'Yes , he said , 'it does . 
I'll eat it immediately , before I forget . 
As he ate it he sighed more than once . 
Anthea caught the others at the stair foot . 
They woke the Psammead , and it taught them exactly how to use the word of power , and to make the charm speak . 
I am not going to tell you how this is done , because you might try to do it . 
And for you any such trying would be almost sure to end in disappointment . 
The sun shone splendidly outside , and the room was very light . 
Through the open window came the hum and rattle of London , and in the street below they could hear the voice of the milkman . 
When all was ready , the Psammead signed to Anthea to say the word . 
Instantly the whole light of all the world seemed to go out . 
The world outside was dark darker than the darkest night that ever was . 
And all the sounds went out too , so that there was a silence deeper than any silence you have ever even dreamed of imagining . 
It was like being suddenly deaf and blind , only darker and quieter even than that . 
The light was too small for one to see anything by , and the voice was too small for you to hear what it said . 
You could just see the light and just hear the voice . 
But the light grew stronger . 
, till it was so sweet that you wanted to cry with pleasure just at the sound of it . 
And the voice said 'Speak . 
What is it that you would hear ? I cannot tell you what language the voice used . 
I only know that everyone present understood it perfectly . 
If you come to think of it , there must be some language that everyone could understand , if we only knew what it was . 
Nor can I tell you how the charm spoke , nor whether it was the charm that spoke , or some presence in the charm . 
The children could not have told you either . 
Indeed , they could not look at the charm while it was speaking , because the light was too bright . 
They looked instead at the green radiance on the faded Kidderminster carpet at the edge of the circle . 
They all felt very quiet , and not inclined to ask questions or fidget with their feet . 
For this was not like the things that had happened in the country when the Psammead had given them their wishes . 
That had been funny somehow , and this was not . 
It was something like Arabian Nights magic , and something like being in church . 
No one cared to speak . 
It was Cyril who said at last 'Please we want to know where the other half of the charm is . 
'The part of the Amulet which is lost , said the beautiful voice , 'was broken and ground into the dust of the shrine that held it . 
It and the pin that joined the two halves are themselves dust , and the dust is scattered over many lands and sunk in many seas . 
'Oh , I say ! murmured Robert , and a blank silence fell . 
'Then it's all up ? said Cyril at last 'it's no use our looking for a thing that's smashed into dust , and the dust scattered all over the place . 
'If you would find it , said the voice , 'You must seek it where it still is , perfect as ever . 
'I don't understand , said Cyril . 
'In the Past you may find it , said the voice . 
'I wish we MAY find it , said Cyril . 
The Psammead whispered crossly , 'Don't you understand ? The thing existed in the Past . 
If you were in the Past , too , you could find it . 
It's very difficult to make you understand things . 
Time and space are only forms of thought . 
'I see , said Cyril . 
'No , you don't , said the Psammead , 'and it doesn't matter if you don't , either . 
What I mean is that if you were only made the right way , you could see everything happening in the same place at the same time . 
Now do you see ? 'I'm afraid I don't , said Anthea 'I'm sorry I'm so stupid . 
'Well , at any rate , you see this . 
That lost half of the Amulet is in the Past . 
Therefore it's in the Past we must look for it . 
I mustn't speak to the charm myself . 
Ask it things ! Find out ! 'Where can we find the other part of you ? asked Cyril obediently . 
'In the Past , said the voice . 
'What part of the Past ? 'I may not tell you . 
If you will choose a time , I will take you to the place that then held it . 
You yourselves must find it . 
'When did you see it last ? asked Anthea 'I mean , when was it taken away from you ? The beautiful voice answered 'That was thousands of years ago . 
The Amulet was perfect then , and lay in a shrine , the last of many shrines , and I worked wonders . 
Then came strange men with strange weapons and destroyed my shrine , and the Amulet they bore away with many captives . 
And the Amulet lay there , still perfect , but enslaved . 
Then one coming with stones to rebuild the shrine , dropped a hewn stone on the Amulet as it lay , and one half was sundered from the other . 
I had no power to seek for that which was lost . 
And there being none to speak the word of power , I could not rejoin it . 
But none could read the name . 
This is what the voice said . 
I think it must have meant Napoleon by the small man , the conqueror . 
And of these I believe this charm to have been one , and the most wonderful one of all . 
Everyone listened and everyone tried to think . 
It is not easy to do this clearly when you have been listening to the kind of talk I have told you about . 
At last Robert said 'Can you take us into the Past to the shrine where you and the other thing were together . 
If you could take us there , we might find the other part still there after all these thousands of years . 
'Still there ? silly ! said Cyril . 
'Don't you see , if we go back into the Past it won't be thousands of years ago . 
'You must hold me up , and speak the word of power , and one by one , beginning with the first born , you shall pass through me into the Past . 
'That's a nasty idea , said Robert . 
'When you desire to return , the beautiful voice went on , 'hold me up towards the East , and speak the word . 
Then , passing through me , you shall return to this time and it shall be the present to you . 
'But how A bell rang loudly . 
'Oh crikey ! exclaimed Robert , 'that's tea ! Will you please make it proper daylight again so that we can go down . 
And thank you so much for all your kindness . 
'We've enjoyed ourselves very much indeed , thank you ! added Anthea politely . 
The beautiful light faded slowly . 
The children rubbed their eyes , the Psammead ran quickly to its sandy bath , and the others went down to tea . 
And until the cups were actually filled tea seemed less real than the beautiful voice and the greeny light . 
After tea Anthea persuaded the others to allow her to hang the charm round her neck with a piece of string . 
He did not recognize her at first , but when he did he was vaguely pleased to see her . 
'You see I'm wearing the charm round my neck , she said 'I'm taking care of it like you told us to . 
'That's right , said he 'did you have a good game last night ? 'You will eat your breakfast before it's cold , won't you ? said Anthea . 
'Yes , we had a splendid time . 
The charm made it all dark , and then greeny light , and then it spoke . 
'I suppose it's natural youthful imagination and so forth , he said . 
Who told you that some part of the charm was missing ? 'I can't tell you , she said . 
You won't forget your breakfast , will you ? The learned gentleman smiled feebly and then frowned not a cross frown , but a puzzle frown . 
'Thank you , he said , 'I shall always be pleased if you'll look in any time you're passing you know at least . 
'I will , she said 'goodbye . 
I'll always tell you anything I MAY tell . 
He had not had many adventures with children in them , and he wondered whether all children were like these . 
He spent quite five minutes in wondering before he settled down to the fifty second chapter of his great book on 'The Secret Rites of the Priests of Amen Ra' . 
It is no use to pretend that the children did not feel a good deal of agitation at the thought of going through the charm into the Past . 
That idea , that perhaps they might stay in the Past and never get back again , was anything but pleasing . 
So they merely asked her to let them take their dinner out into Regent's Park and this , with the implied cold mutton and tomatoes , was readily granted . 
'You can get yourselves some buns or sponge cakes , or whatever you fancy like , said old Nurse , giving Cyril a shilling . 
So Cyril took the shilling , and they all started off . 
They went round by the Tottenham Court Road to buy a piece of waterproof sheeting to put over the Psammead in case it should be raining in the Past when they got there . 
For it is almost certain death to a Psammead to get wet . 
The sun was shining very brightly , and even London looked pretty . 
Women were selling roses from big baskets full , and Anthea bought four roses , one each , for herself and the others . 
'We've got to go on with it , said Anthea , 'and as the eldest has to go first , you'll have to be last , Jane . 
You quite understand about holding on to the charm as you go through , don't you , Pussy ? 'I wish I hadn't got to be last , said Jane . 
'You shall carry the Psammead if you like , said Anthea . 
'That is , she added , remembering the beast's queer temper , 'if it'll let you . 
The Psammead , however , was unexpectedly amiable . 
I don't mind , it said , 'who carries me , so long as it doesn't drop me . 
I can't bear being dropped . 
Jane with trembling hands took the Psammead and its fish basket under one arm . 
The charm's long string was hung round her neck . 
Then they all stood up . 
Jane held out the charm at arm's length , and Cyril solemnly pronounced the word of power . 
As he spoke it the charm grew tall and broad , and he saw that Jane was just holding on to the edge of a great red arch of very curious shape . 
The opening of the arch was small , but Cyril saw that he could go through it . 
All round and beyond the arch were the faded trees and trampled grass of Regent's Park , where the little ragged children were playing Ring o' Roses . 
But through the opening of it shone a blaze of blue and yellow and red . 
Cyril drew a long breath and stiffened his legs so that the others should not see that his knees were trembling and almost knocking together . 
'Here goes ! he said , and , stepping up through the arch , disappeared . 
Robert , coming next , held fast , at Anthea's suggestion , to the sleeve of Jane , who was thus dragged safely through the arch . 
They were now in a light so bright that they winked and blinked and rubbed their eyes . 
During this dazzling interval Anthea felt for the charm and pushed it inside Jane's frock , so that it might be quite safe . 
When their eyes got used to the new wonderful light the children looked around them . 
The sky was very , very blue , and it sparkled and glittered and dazzled like the sea at home when the sun shines on it . 
They were standing on a little clearing in a thick , low forest there were trees and shrubs and a close , thorny , tangly undergrowth . 
In front of them stretched a bank of strange black mud , then came the browny yellowy shining ribbon of a river . 
Then more dry , caked mud and more greeny browny jungle . 
The only things that told that human people had been there were the clearing , a path that led to it , and an odd arrangement of cut reeds in the river . 
They looked at each other . 
'Well ! said Robert , 'this IS a change of air ! It was . 
The air was hotter than they could have imagined , even in London in August . 
'I wish I knew where we were , said Cyril . 
'Here's a river , now I wonder whether it's the Amazon or the Tiber , or what . 
'It's the Nile , said the Psammead , looking out of the fish bag . 
'Then this is Egypt , said Robert , who had once taken a geography prize . 
'I don't see any crocodiles , Cyril objected . 
His prize had been for natural history . 
The Psammead reached out a hairy arm from its basket and pointed to a heap of mud at the edge of the water . 
There was a crashing among the reeds on the other side of the water . 
'And there's a river horse ! said the Psammead , as a great beast like an enormous slaty blue slug showed itself against the black bank on the far side of the stream . 
And now there was a crackling of reeds and twigs behind them . 
Of course it might be another hippopotamus , or a crocodile , or a lion or , in fact , almost anything . 
'Keep your hand on the charm , Jane , said Robert hastily . 
'We ought to have a means of escape handy . 
I'm dead certain this is the sort of place where simply anything might happen to us . 
'I believe a hippopotamus is going to happen to us , said Jane 'a very , very big one . 
They had all turned to face the danger . 
'Don't be silly little duffers , said the Psammead in its friendly , informal way 'it's not a river horse . 
It was a girl of about Anthea's age . 
Her hair was short and fair , and though her skin was tanned by the sun , you could see that it would have been fair too if it had had a chance . 
There was no doubt that here was the right costume for that climate . 
She carried a pot on her head , of red and black earthenware . 
She did not see the children , who shrank back against the edge of the jungle , and she went forward to the brink of the river to fill her pitcher . 
As she went she made a strange sort of droning , humming , melancholy noise all on two notes . 
Anthea could not help thinking that perhaps the girl thought this noise was singing . 
The girl filled the pitcher and set it down by the river bank . 
Then she waded into the water and stooped over the circle of cut reeds . 
She pulled half a dozen fine fish out of the water within the reeds , killing each as she took it out , and threading it on a long osier that she carried . 
Then she knotted the osier , hung it on her arm , picked up the pitcher , and turned to come back . 
And as she turned she saw the four children . 
The white dresses of Jane and Anthea stood out like snow against the dark forest background . 
She screamed and the pitcher fell , and the water was spilled out over the hard mud surface and over the fish , which had fallen too . 
Then the water slowly trickled away into the deep cracks . 
'Don't be frightened , Anthea cried , 'we won't hurt you . 
'Who are you ? said the girl . 
Now , once for all , I am not going to be bothered to tell you how it was that the girl could understand Anthea and Anthea could understand the girl . 
YOU , at any rate , would not understand ME , if I tried to explain it , any more than you can understand about time and space being only forms of thought . 
You may think what you like . 
Perhaps the children had found out the universal language which everyone can understand , and which wise men so far have not found . 
You will have noticed long ago that they were singularly lucky children , and they may have had this piece of luck as well as others . 
Or it may have been that . 
but why pursue the question further ? The fact remains that in all their adventures the muddle headed inventions which we call foreign languages never bothered them in the least . 
They could always understand and be understood . 
If you can explain this , please do . 
I daresay I could understand your explanation , though you could never understand mine . 
So when the girl said , 'Who are you ? everyone understood at once , and Anthea replied 'We are children just like you . 
'Don't make your voice buzz like that , it tickles my ears , it said rather crossly . 
'You can always get back to Regent's Park in time if you keep fast hold of the charm , it said . 
The strange girl was trembling with fright . 
Anthea had a bangle on her arm . 
'Here , said Anthea , 'this is for you . 
That is to show we will not hurt you . 
And if you take it I shall know that you won't hurt us . 
The girl held out her hand . 
Anthea slid the bangle over it , and the girl's face lighted up with the joy of possession . 
'Come , she said , looking lovingly at the bangle 'it is peace between your house and mine . 
She picked up her fish and pitcher and led the way up the narrow path by which she had come and the others followed . 
'This is something like ! said Cyril , trying to be brave . 
The belt of thick growing acacia trees and shrubs mostly prickly and unpleasant looking seemed about half a mile across . 
The path was narrow and the wood dark . 
At last , ahead , daylight shone through the boughs and leaves . 
Away to the right was something that looked like a grey brown hedge , and from beyond it blue smoke went up to the bluer sky . 
And over all the sun shone till you could hardly bear your clothes . 
'That is where I live , said the girl pointing . 
'I won't go , whispered Jane into the basket , 'unless you say it's all right . 
The Psammead ought to have been touched by this proof of confidence . 
Perhaps , however , it looked upon it as a proof of doubt , for it merely snarled 'If you don't go now I'll never help you again . 
'OH , whispered Anthea , 'dear Jane , don't ! Think of Father and Mother and all of us getting our heart's desire . 
And we can go back any minute . 
Come on ! 'Besides , said Cyril , in a low voice , 'the Psammead must know there's no danger or it wouldn't go . 
It's not so over and above brave itself . 
Come on ! This Jane at last consented to do . 
As they got nearer to the browny fence they saw that it was a great hedge about eight feet high , made of piled up thorn bushes . 
'What's that for ? asked Cyril . 
'To keep out foes and wild beasts , said the girl . 
'I should think it ought to , too , said he . 
'Why , some of the thorns are as long as my foot . 
There was an opening in the hedge , and they followed the girl through it . 
There were no gardens and no roads . 
Just huts built of wood and twigs and clay , and roofed with great palm leaves , dumped down anywhere . 
The doors of these houses were very low , like the doors of dog kennels . 
The ground between them was not paths or streets , but just yellow sand trampled very hard and smooth . 
In the middle of the village there was a hedge that enclosed what seemed to be a piece of ground about as big as their own garden in Camden Town . 
No sooner were the children well within the inner thorn hedge than dozens of men and women and children came crowding round from behind and inside the huts . 
The girl stood protectingly in front of the four children , and said 'They are wonder children from beyond the desert . 
They bring marvellous gifts , and I have said that it is peace between us and them . 
She held out her arm with the Lowther Arcade bangle on it . 
The children from London , where nothing now surprises anyone , had never before seen so many people look so astonished . 
They crowded round the children , touching their clothes , their shoes , the buttons on the boys' jackets , and the coral of the girls' necklaces . 
'Do say something , whispered Anthea . 
And peace with honour is what we want . 
We are the great Anglo Saxon or conquering race . 
Not that we want to conquer YOU , he added hastily . 
Cyril's speech didn't keep the crowd from pressing round and looking as eagerly as ever at the clothing of the children . 
The sewing , too , of modern clothes seemed to astonish them very much . 
And the women wore long skimpy skirts of animals' skins . 
The people were not very tall , their hair was fair , and men and women both had it short . 
Their eyes were blue , and that seemed odd in Egypt . 
Most of them were tattooed like sailors , only more roughly . 
'What is this ? What is this ? they kept asking touching the children's clothes curiously . 
Anthea hastily took off Jane's frilly lace collar and handed it to the woman who seemed most friendly . 
'Take this , she said , 'and look at it . 
We want to talk among ourselves . 
She spoke in the tone of authority which she had always found successful when she had not time to coax her baby brother to do as he was told . 
The tone was just as successful now . 
The children were left together and the crowd retreated . 
It paused a dozen yards away to look at the lace collar and to go on talking as hard as it could . 
The children will never know what those people said , though they knew well enough that they , the four strangers , were the subject of the talk . 
They tried to comfort themselves by remembering the girl's promise of friendliness , but of course the thought of the charm was more comfortable than anything else . 
'I say , said Robert , 'what a lot we could teach them if we stayed here ! 'I expect they could teach us something too , said Cyril . 
'Did you notice that flint bracelet the woman had that Anthea gave the collar to ? That must have taken some making . 
Look here , they'll get suspicious if we talk among ourselves , and I do want to know about how they do things . 
Let's get the girl to show us round , and we can be thinking about how to get the Amulet at the same time . 
Only mind , we must keep together . 
Anthea beckoned to the girl , who was standing a little way off looking wistfully at them , and she came gladly . 
'Tell us how you make the bracelets , the stone ones , said Cyril . 
'With other stones , said the girl 'the men make them we have men of special skill in such work . 
'Haven't you any iron tools ? 'Iron , said the girl , 'I don't know what you mean . 
It was the first word she had not understood . 
'Are all your tools of flint ? asked Cyril . 
'Of course , said the girl , opening her eyes wide . 
I wish I had time to tell you of that talk . 
The English children wanted to hear all about this new place , but they also wanted to tell of their own country . 
It was like when you come back from your holidays and you want to hear and to tell everything at the same time . 
The girl showed them how the huts were made indeed , as one was being made that very day she took them to look at it . 
The way of building was very different from ours . 
The men stuck long pieces of wood into a piece of ground the size of the hut they wanted to make . 
These were about eight inches apart then they put in another row about eight inches away from the first , and then a third row still further out . 
Then all the space between was filled up with small branches and twigs , and then daubed over with black mud worked with the feet till it was soft and sticky like putty . 
The girl told them how the men went hunting with flint spears and arrows , and how they made boats with reeds and clay . 
Then she explained the reed thing in the river that she had taken the fish out of . 
'It is really wonderful , said Cyril patronizingly , 'when you consider that it's all eight thousand years ago 'I don't understand you , said the girl . 
'It ISN'T eight thousand years ago , whispered Jane . 
'It's NOW and that's just what I don't like about it . 
I say , DO let's get home again before anything more happens . 
You can see for yourselves the charm isn't here . 
'What's in that place in the middle ? asked Anthea , struck by a sudden thought , and pointing to the fence . 
'That's the secret sacred place , said the girl in a whisper . 
'No one knows what is there . 
There are many walls , and inside the insidest one IT is , but no one knows what IT is except the headsmen . 
'I believe YOU know , said Cyril , looking at her very hard . 
'I'll give you this if you'll tell me , said Anthea taking off a bead ring which had already been much admired . 
'Yes , said the girl , catching eagerly at the ring . 
'My father is one of the heads , and I know a water charm to make him talk in his sleep . 
But if they know I have told you they will kill me . 
In the insidest inside there is a stone box , and in it there is the Amulet . 
None knows whence it came . 
It came from very far away . 
'Have you seen it ? asked Anthea . 
'Is it anything like this ? asked Jane , rashly producing the charm . 
The girl's face turned a sickly greenish white . 
'Hide it , hide it , she whispered . 
'You must put it back . 
If they see it they will kill us all . 
You for taking it , and me for knowing that there was such a thing . 
Oh , woe woe ! why did you ever come here ? 'Don't be frightened , said Cyril . 
Jane , don't you be such a little jack ape again that's all . 
You see what will happen if you do . 
'Many foes are upon us ! he cried . 
'Make ready the defences ! His breath only served for that , and he lay panting on the ground . 
'Oh , DO let's go home ! said Jane . 
'Look here I don't care I WILL ! She held up the charm . 
Fortunately all the strange , fair people were too busy to notice HER . 
She held up the charm . 
'You haven't said the word of power , said Anthea . 
Jane hastily said it and still nothing happened . 
'Hold it up towards the East , you silly ! said Robert . 
'Which IS the East ? said Jane , dancing about in her agony of terror . 
So they opened the fish bag to ask the Psammead . 
And the bag had only a waterproof sheet in it . 
'Hide the sacred thing ! Hide it ! Hide it ! whispered the girl . 
Cyril shrugged his shoulders , and tried to look as brave as he knew he ought to feel . 
'Hide it up , Pussy , he said . 
'We are in for it now . 
We've just got to stay and see it out . 
The Psammead had crept out of the bass bag when they were not looking and had basely deserted them . 
There would be a fight . 
People get killed in fights , and the idea of taking part in a fight was one that did not appeal to the children . 
The man who had brought the news of the enemy still lay panting on the sand . 
His tongue was hanging out , long and red , like a dog's . 
The people of the village were hurriedly filling the gaps in the fence with thorn bushes from the heap that seemed to have been piled there ready for just such a need . 
They lifted the cluster thorns with long poles much as men at home , nowadays , lift hay with a fork . 
Jane bit her lip and tried to decide not to cry . 
Robert felt in his pocket for a toy pistol and loaded it with a pink paper cap . 
It was his only weapon . 
Cyril tightened his belt two holes . 
She was always rather silly about flowers . 
'Look here ! she said . 
'I think perhaps the Psammead is really arranging something for us . 
I don't believe it would go away and leave us all alone in the Past . 
Jane succeeded in deciding not to cry at any rate yet . 
'But what can we do ? Robert asked . 
'Nothing , Cyril answered promptly , 'except keep our eyes and ears open . 
Look ! That runner chap's getting his wind . 
Let's go and hear what he's got to say . 
The runner had risen to his knees and was sitting back on his heels . 
Now he stood up and spoke . 
He began by some respectful remarks addressed to the heads of the village . 
His speech got more interesting when he said 'I went out in my raft to snare ibises , and I had gone up the stream an hour's journey . 
Then I set my snares and waited . 
And I heard the sound of many wings , and looking up , saw many herons circling in the air . 
And I saw that they were afraid so I took thought . 
A beast may scare one heron , coming upon it suddenly , but no beast will scare a whole flock of herons . 
And still they flew and circled , and would not light . 
So then I knew that what scared the herons must be men , and men who knew not our ways of going softly so as to take the birds and beasts unawares . 
By this I knew they were not of our race or of our place . 
So , leaving my raft , I crept along the river bank , and at last came upon the strangers . 
They are many as the sands of the desert , and their spear heads shine red like the sun . 
They are a terrible people , and their march is towards US . 
Having seen this , I ran , and did not stay till I was before you . 
'These are YOUR folk , said the headman , turning suddenly and angrily on Cyril , 'you came as spies for them . 
'We did NOT , said Cyril indignantly . 
'We wouldn't be spies for anything . 
I'm certain these people aren't a bit like us . 
Are they now ? he asked the runner . 
'No , was the answer . 
'These men's faces were darkened , and their hair black as night . 
Yet these strange children , maybe , are their gods , who have come before to make ready the way for them . 
A murmur ran through the crowd . 
'No , NO , said Cyril again . 
'We are on your side . 
We will help you to guard your sacred things . 
The headman seemed impressed by the fact that Cyril knew that there WERE sacred things to be guarded . 
He stood a moment gazing at the children . 
Then he said 'It is well . 
And now let all make offering , that we may be strong in battle . 
The crowd dispersed , and nine men , wearing antelope skins , grouped themselves in front of the opening in the hedge in the middle of the village . 
There was another hedge inside the first , about a yard from it , so that there was a lane inside between the hedges . 
And every now and then one of the headmen would disappear along this lane with full hands and come back with hands empty . 
'They're making offerings to their Amulet , said Anthea . 
'We'd better give something too . 
Most boys have a watch in this condition . 
They presented their offerings , and Anthea added the red roses . 
The headman who took the things looked at them with awe , especially at the red roses and the Waterbury watch fragment . 
'This is a day of very wondrous happenings , he said . 
'I have no more room in me to be astonished . 
Our maiden said there was peace between you and us . 
But for this coming of a foe we should have made sure . 
Are you upon our side ? 'YES . 
Don't I keep telling you we are ? Robert said . 
I will give you a sign . 
He held out the toy pistol . 
'I shall speak to it , and if it answers me you will know that I and the others are come to guard your sacred thing that we've just made the offerings to . 
'Will that god whose image you hold in your hand speak to you alone , or shall I also hear it ? asked the man cautiously . 
'You'll be surprised when you DO hear it , said Robert . 
He looked at the pistol and said 'If we are to guard the sacred treasure within' he pointed to the hedged in space 'speak with thy loud voice , and we shall obey . 
He pulled the trigger , and the cap went off . 
The noise was loud , for it was a two shilling pistol , and the caps were excellent . 
Every man , woman , and child in the village fell on its face on the sand . 
The headman who had accepted the test rose first . 
'The voice has spoken , he said . 
'Lead them into the ante room of the sacred thing . 
The thing was built something like this , and all the hedges were of brushwood and thorns Drawing of maze omitted . 
'It's like the maze at Hampton Court , whispered Anthea . 
The lanes were all open to the sky , but the little hut in the middle of the maze was round roofed , and a curtain of skins hung over the doorway . 
'Here you may wait , said their guide , 'but do not dare to pass the curtain . 
He himself passed it and disappeared . 
'But look here , whispered Cyril , 'some of us ought to be outside in case the Psammead turns up . 
'Don't let's get separated from each other , whatever we do , said Anthea . 
'It's quite bad enough to be separated from the Psammead . 
We can't do anything while that man is in there . 
Let's all go out into the village again . 
We can come back later now we know the way in . 
That man'll have to fight like the rest , most likely , if it comes to fighting . 
If we find the Psammead we'll go straight home . 
It must be getting late , and I don't much like this mazy place . 
They went out and told the headman that they would protect the treasure when the fighting began . 
The boys found the weapons most interesting . 
The arrow heads were not on arrows such as you shoot from a bow , but on javelins , for throwing from the hand . 
The chief weapon was a stone fastened to a rather short stick something like the things gentlemen used to carry about and call life preservers in the days of the garrotters . 
Then there were long things like spears or lances , with flint knives horribly sharp and flint battle axes . 
Everyone in the village was so busy that the place was like an ant heap when you have walked into it by accident . 
The women were busy and even the children . 
For the sun had set , and it was night . 
The girl brought the skins of wild deer and led the children to a heap of dry sedge . 
'My father says they will not attack yet . 
Sleep ! she said , and it really seemed a good idea . 
This did not prevent their being quite as much frightened as they could bear to be without being perfectly miserable . 
'I suppose we'd better go to sleep , said Robert . 
'I don't know what on earth poor old Nurse will do with us out all night set the police on our tracks , I expect . 
I only wish they could find us ! A dozen policemen would be rather welcome just now . 
But it's no use getting into a stew over it , he added soothingly . 
And they all fell asleep . 
'It is the voice of the strange men , said the girl , coming to them trembling through the dark . 
'They have attacked the walls , and the thorns have driven them back . 
My father says they will not try again till daylight . 
But they are shouting to frighten us . 
As though we were savages ! Dwellers in the swamps ! she cried indignantly . 
All night the terrible noise went on , but when the sun rose , as abruptly as he had set , the sound suddenly ceased . 
The children had hardly time to be glad of this before a shower of javelins came hurtling over the great thorn hedge , and everyone sheltered behind the huts . 
But next moment another shower of weapons came from the opposite side , and the crowd rushed to other shelter . 
Cyril pulled out a javelin that had stuck in the roof of the hut beside him . 
Its head was of brightly burnished copper . 
Then the sound of shouting arose again and the crackle of dried thorns . 
The enemy was breaking down the hedge . 
All the villagers swarmed to the point whence the crackling and the shouting came they hurled stones over the hedges , and short arrows with flint heads . 
The children had never before seen men with the fighting light in their eyes . 
It was very strange and terrible , and gave you a queer thick feeling in your throat it was quite different from the pictures of fights in the illustrated papers at home . 
It seemed that the shower of stones had driven back the besiegers . 
Cyril noticed that every now and then certain of the fighting men would enter the maze , and come out with brighter faces , a braver aspect , and a more upright carriage . 
'I believe they go and touch the Amulet , he said . 
'You know the Psammead said it could make people brave . 
They crept through the maze , and watching they saw that Cyril was right . 
And this something he held in his hands . 
And through his fingers they saw the gleam of a red stone that they knew . 
The fight raged across the thorn hedge outside . 
Suddenly there was a loud and bitter cry . 
'They're in ! They're in ! The hedge is down ! The headman disappeared behind the deer skin curtain . 
'He's gone to hide it , said Anthea . 
The children were as white as he . 
'Oh ! What is it ? What is it ? moaned Anthea . 
'Oh , Psammead , how could you ! How could you ! And the sound of the fight sank breathlessly , and swelled fiercely all around . 
It was like the rising and falling of the waves of the sea . 
Anthea caught it in her arms and a sigh of desperate relief was breathed by each of the four . 
'Oh ! which IS the East ! Anthea said , and she spoke hurriedly , for the noise of wild fighting drew nearer and nearer . 
'Don't choke me , said the Psammead , 'come inside . 
The inside of the hut was pitch dark . 
'I've got a match , said Cyril , and struck it . 
The floor of the hut was of soft , loose sand . 
'I've been asleep here , said the Psammead 'most comfortable it's been , the best sand I've had for a month . 
I knew your only chance would be while the fight was going on . 
That man won't come back . 
I bit him , and he thinks I'm an Evil Spirit . 
Now you've only got to take the thing and go . 
The hut was hung with skins . 
Heaped in the middle were the offerings that had been given the night before , Anthea's roses fading on the top of the heap . 
At one side of the hut stood a large square stone block , and on it an oblong box of earthenware with strange figures of men and beasts on it . 
'Is the thing in there ? asked Cyril , as the Psammead pointed a skinny finger at it . 
'You must judge of that , said the Psammead . 
'The man was just going to bury the box in the sand when I jumped out at him and bit him . 
'Light another match , Robert , said Anthea . 
'But we can't see the sun in here , and it isn't rising anyhow , said Jane . 
'How you do waste time ! the Psammead said . 
'Why , the East's where the shrine is , of course . 
THERE ! It pointed to the great stone . 
And still the shouting and the clash of stone on metal sounded nearer and nearer . 
The children could hear that the headmen had surrounded the hut to protect their treasure as long as might be from the enemy . 
But none dare to come in after the Psammead's sudden fierce biting of the headman . 
'Now , Jane , said Cyril , very quickly . 
'I'll take the Amulet , you stand ready to hold up the charm , and be sure you don't let it go as you come through . 
He made a step forward , but at that instant a great crackling overhead ended in a blaze of sunlight . 
The roof had been broken in at one side , and great slabs of it were being lifted off by two spears . 
'Here is their Amulet , cried a harsh , strange voice 'it is this that makes them strong to fight and brave to die . 
And what else have we here gods or demons ? He glared fiercely at the children , and the whites of his eyes were very white indeed . 
He had a wet , red copper knife in his teeth . 
There was not a moment to lose . 
'Jane , JANE , QUICK ! cried everyone passionately . 
Jane with trembling hands held up the charm towards the East , and Cyril spoke the word of power . 
The Amulet grew to a great arch . 
Out beyond it was the glaring Egyptian sky , the broken wall , the cruel , dark , big nosed face with the red , wet knife in its gleaming teeth . 
Within the arch was the dull , faint , greeny brown of London grass and trees . 
'Hold tight , Jane ! Cyril cried , and he dashed through the arch , dragging Anthea and the Psammead after him . 
Robert followed , clutching Jane . 
And the charm was a little charm again in Jane's hand , and there was the basket with their dinner and the bathbuns lying just where they had left it . 
'My hat ! said Cyril , drawing a long breath 'that was something like an adventure . 
'It was rather like one , certainly , said the Psammead . 
They all lay still , breathing in the safe , quiet air of Regent's Park . 
'We'd better go home at once , said Anthea presently . 
'Old Nurse will be most frightfully anxious . 
The sun looks about the same as it did when we started yesterday . 
We've been away twenty four hours . 
'The buns are quite soft still , said Cyril , feeling one 'I suppose the dew kept them fresh . 
They were not hungry , curiously enough . 
They picked up the dinner basket and the Psammead basket , and went straight home . 
Old Nurse met them with amazement . 
'Well , if ever I did ! she said . 
'What's gone wrong ? You've soon tired of your picnic . 
Come in and get your dinners comf'table . 
I've got a potato on a boiling . 
When she had gone to attend to the potatoes the children looked at each other . 
This isn't tomorrow ! 'Is it still yesterday ? asked Jane . 
The same as it's always been . 
It wouldn't do to go mixing up the present and the Past , and cutting bits out of one to fit into the other . 
'Then all that adventure took no time at all ? 'You can call it that if you like , said the Psammead . 
'It took none of the modern time , anyhow . 
That evening Anthea carried up a steak for the learned gentleman's dinner . 
She persuaded Beatrice , the maid of all work , who had given her the bangle with the blue stone , to let her do it . 
And she stayed and talked to him , by special invitation , while he ate the dinner . 
She did not tell anything about the charm or the Psammead , because that was forbidden , but the story was quite wonderful enough even as it was to entrance the learned gentleman . 
'You are a most unusual little girl , he said . 
'Who tells you all these things ? 'No one , said Anthea , 'they just happen . 
'Make believe , he said slowly , as one who recalls and pronounces a long forgotten word . 
He sat long after she had left him . 
At last he roused himself with a start . 
'I really must take a holiday , he said 'my nerves must be all out of order . 
Strange what tricks the mind will play ! I shall have to be more careful . 
He finished his bread conscientiously , and actually went for a mile walk before he went back to his work . 
The others were tasting the fearful joys of domestic tobogganing . 
You know how it is done with the largest and best tea tray and the surface of the stair carpet . 
It is best to do it on the days when the stair rods are being cleaned , and the carpet is only held by the nails at the top . 
The tea tray was taken away , and the baffled party entered the sitting room , in exactly the mood not to be pleased if they could help it . 
'I'm sick to death of that , said she . 
It was a wet day , so none of the plans for seeing all the sights of London that can be seen for nothing could be carried out . 
So he said 'I say about that charm Jane come out . 
We ought to talk about it , anyhow . 
'Oh , if that's all , said Robert . 
Jane obediently wriggled to the front of her house and sat there . 
She felt for the charm , to make sure that it was still round her neck . 
'It ISN'T all , said Cyril , saying much more than he meant because he thought Robert's tone had been rude as indeed it had . 
'We ought to go and look for that Amulet . 
What's the good of having a first class charm and keeping it idle , just eating its head off in the stable . 
'I'M game for anything , of course , said Robert but he added , with a fine air of chivalry , 'only I don't think the girls are keen today somehow . 
'Oh , yes I am , said Anthea hurriedly . 
'If you think I'm afraid , I'm not . 
'I am though , said Jane heavily 'I didn't like it , and I won't go there again not for anything I won't . 
'We shouldn't go THERE again , silly , said Cyril 'it would be some other place . 
'I daresay a place with lions and tigers in it as likely as not . 
Seeing Jane so frightened , made the others feel quite brave . 
They said they were certain they ought to go . 
'It's so ungrateful to the Psammead not to , Anthea added , a little primly . 
So now , then ! You can imagine how furious everyone was with Jane for feeling what each of them had felt all the morning . 
In each breast the same thought arose , 'No one can say it's OUR fault . 
And they at once began to show Jane how angry they all felt that all the fault was hers . 
This made them feel quite brave . 
'Tell tale tit , its tongue shall be split , And all the dogs in our town shall have a little bit , sang Robert . 
'It's always the way if you have girls in anything . 
Jane picked up her doll and faced the others with what is sometimes called the courage of despair . 
You're beasts and I hate you all ! With these awful words she went out and banged the door . 
Then the others would not look at each other , and they did not feel so brave as they had done . 
Cyril took up a book , but it was not interesting to read . 
Robert kicked a chair leg absently . 
His feet were always eloquent in moments of emotion . 
Anthea stood pleating the end of the tablecloth into folds she seemed earnestly anxious to get all the pleats the same size . 
The sound of Jane's sobs had died away . 
Suddenly Anthea said , 'Oh ! let it be pax poor little Pussy you know she's the youngest . 
'She called us beasts , said Robert , kicking the chair suddenly . 
'Well , said Cyril , who was subject to passing fits of justice , 'we began , you know . 
Cyril's justice was always uncompromising . 
'I'm not going to say I'm sorry if you mean that , said Robert , and the chair leg cracked to the kick he gave as he said it . 
'Oh , do let's , said Anthea , 'we're three to one , and Mother does so hate it if we row . 
I'll say I'm sorry first , though I didn't say anything , hardly . 
'All right , let's get it over , said Cyril , opening the door . 
, and back again ! It was trying , for this was plainly meant to annoy . 
But Anthea would not give herself time to think this . 
'I say , Pussy , let it be pax ! We're sorry if you are It was enough . 
The kiss of peace was given by all . 
Jane being the youngest was entitled to this ceremonial . 
Anthea added a special apology of her own . 
But then , do think . 
I suppose cranberries are only for Christmas time , but I'll ask old Nurse to let you have your chop very raw if you like . 
'I think I could be brave without that , said Jane hastily she hated underdone meat . 
At this moment the door of the learned gentleman's room opened , and he looked out . 
'I did not hear ALL the words , said the learned gentleman . 
'Can't you ? asked Jane . 
'Babylon has fallen , he answered with a sigh . 
'I say , Cyril remarked abruptly . 
'Such charms have been found in very early Egyptian tombs , yet their origin has not been accurately determined as Egyptian . 
They may have been brought from Asia . 
The inscription may be much later than the charm . 
Oh yes ! it is a pleasant fancy , that that splendid specimen of yours was once used amid Babylonish surroundings . 
The others looked at each other , but it was Jane who spoke . 
'Were the Babylon people savages , were they always fighting and throwing things about ? For she had read the thoughts of the others by the unerring light of her own fears . 
'The Babylonians were certainly more gentle than the Assyrians , said the learned gentleman . 
'And they were not savages by any means . 
A very high level of culture , he looked doubtfully at his audience and went on , 'I mean that they made beautiful statues and jewellery , and built splendid palaces . 
And they were very learned they had glorious libraries and high towers for the purpose of astrological and astronomical observation . 
'Ah , said the learned gentleman , smiling rather sadly , 'one can go so far in dreams , when one is young . 
He sighed again , and then adding with a laboured briskness , 'I hope you'll have a a jolly game , he went into his room and shut the door . 
'He said jolly as if it was a foreign language , said Cyril . 
'Come on , let's get the Psammead and go now . 
I think Babylon seems a most frightfully jolly place to go to . 
So they woke the Psammead and put it in its bass bag with the waterproof sheet , in case of inclement weather in Babylon . 
It was very cross , but it said it would as soon go to Babylon as anywhere else . 
'The sand is good thereabouts , it added . 
Then Jane held up the charm , and Cyril said 'We want to go to Babylon to look for the part of you that was lost . 
Will you please let us go there through you ? 'Please put us down just outside , said Jane hastily 'and then if we don't like it we needn't go inside . 
'Don't be all day , said the Psammead . 
So Anthea hastily uttered the word of power , without which the charm could do nothing . 
'Ur Hekau Setcheh ! she said softly , and as she spoke the charm grew into an arch so tall that the top of it was close against the bedroom ceiling . 
Through the arch showed the gleam of soft green leaves and white blossoms . 
They stepped forward quite happily . 
The children found themselves under a white blossomed , green leafed fruit tree , in what seemed to be an orchard of such trees , all white flowered and green foliaged . 
Among the long green grass under their feet grew crocuses and lilies , and strange blue flowers . 
In the branches overhead thrushes and blackbirds were singing , and the coo of a pigeon came softly to them in the green quietness of the orchard . 
'Oh , how perfectly lovely ! cried Anthea . 
'Why , it's like home exactly I mean England only everything's bluer , and whiter , and greener , and the flowers are bigger . 
The boys owned that it certainly was fairly decent , and even Jane admitted that it was all very pretty . 
'I'm certain there's nothing to be frightened of here , said Anthea . 
'I don't know , said Jane . 
'I suppose the fruit trees go on just the same even when people are killing each other . 
I didn't half like what the learned gentleman said about the hanging gardens . 
I suppose they have gardens on purpose to hang people in . 
I do hope this isn't one . 
'Of course it isn't , said Cyril . 
'The hanging gardens are just gardens hung up I think on chains between houses , don't you know , like trays . 
Come on let's get somewhere . 
They began to walk through the cool grass . 
As far as they could see was nothing but trees , and trees and more trees . 
At the end of their orchard was another one , only separated from theirs by a little stream of clear water . 
They jumped this , and went on . 
There were nut trees and almond trees , and apricots , and fig trees with their big five fingered leaves . 
And every now and then the children had to cross another brook . 
'It's like between the squares in Through the Looking glass , said Anthea . 
At last they came to an orchard which was quite different from the other orchards . 
It had a low building in one corner . 
'These are vines , said Cyril superiorly , 'and I know this is a vineyard . 
I shouldn't wonder if there was a wine press inside that place over there . 
At last they got out of the orchards and on to a sort of road , very rough , and not at all like the roads you are used to . 
And now in front of them they could see a great mass of buildings . 
There were scattered houses of wood and stone here and there among green orchards , and beyond these a great wall that shone red in the early morning sun . 
The wall was enormously high more than half the height of St Paul's and in the wall were set enormous gates that shone like gold as the rising sun beat on them . 
Each gate had a solid square tower on each side of it that stood out from the wall and rose above it . 
Beyond the wall were more towers and houses , gleaming with gold and bright colours . 
Away to the left ran the steel blue swirl of a great river . 
And the children could see , through a gap in the trees , that the river flowed out from the town under a great arch in the wall . 
'Those feathery things along by the water are palms , said Cyril instructively . 
'Oh , yes you know everything , Robert replied . 
'What's all that grey green stuff you see away over there , where it's all flat and sandy ? 'All right , said Cyril loftily , I don't want to tell you anything . 
I only thought you'd like to know a palm tree when you saw it again . 
'Look ! cried Anthea 'they're opening the gates . 
And indeed the great gates swung back with a brazen clang , and instantly a little crowd of a dozen or more people came out and along the road towards them . 
The children , with one accord , crouched behind the tamarisk hedge . 
'I don't like the sound of those gates , said Jane . 
'Fancy being inside when they shut . 
'You've got an arch of your own to go out by , the Psammead put its head out of the basket to remind her . 
'Don't behave so like a girl . 
If I were you I should just march right into the town and ask to see the king . 
There was something at once simple and grand about this idea , and it pleased everyone . 
the four children marched boldly up to the brazen gate between the towers . 
The arch above the gate was quite a tunnel , the walls were so thick . 
It's no use trying to sneak past . 
Be bold ! Robert answered this appeal by unexpectedly bursting into 'The British Grenadiers' , and to its quick step they approached the gates of Babylon . 
'Some talk of Alexander , And some of Hercules , Of Hector and Lysander , And such great names as these . 
But of all the gallant heroes . 
This brought them to the threshold of the gate , and two men in bright armour suddenly barred their way with crossed spears . 
'Who goes there ? they said . 
'We come from very far , said Cyril mechanically . 
'From the Empire where the sun never sets , and we want to see your King . 
'If it's quite convenient , amended Anthea . 
, said the gatekeeper , 'is gone to fetch home his fourteenth wife . 
gives audience today three hours after sunrising . 
'But what are we to do till the end of the three hours ? asked Cyril . 
The gatekeeper seemed neither to know nor to care . 
He appeared less interested in them than they could have thought possible . 
But the man who had crossed spears with him to bar the children's way was more human . 
'Let them go in and look about them , he said . 
'I'll wager my best sword they've never seen anything to come near our little village . 
He said it in the tone people use for when they call the Atlantic Ocean the 'herring pond' . 
'They're only children , after all , said the other , who had children of his own . 
Then they can have a look round without being mobbed . 
May I go ? 'Oh yes , if you like , said the Captain , 'but don't be all day . 
The man led them through the dark arch into the town . 
And it was very different from London . 
There were terraces , and gardens , and balconies , and open spaces with trees . 
Their guide took them to a little house in a back street , where a kind faced woman sat spinning at the door of a very dark room . 
'Here , he said , 'just lend these children a mantle each , so that they can go about and see the place till the Queen's audience begins . 
You leave that wool for a bit , and show them round if you like . 
I must be off now . 
It was all so wonderfully different from anything you have ever seen . 
For one thing , all the houses were dazzlingly bright , and many of them covered with pictures . 
Some had great creatures carved in stone at each side of the door . 
Then the people there were no black frock coats and tall hats no dingy coats and skirts of good , useful , ugly stuffs warranted to wear . 
Everyone's clothes were bright and beautiful with blue and scarlet and green and gold . 
The market was brighter than you would think anything could be . 
There were stalls for everything you could possibly want and for a great many things that if you wanted here and now , want would be your master . 
The children had never seen half so many beautiful things together , even at Liberty's . 
It seemed no time at all before the woman said 'It's nearly time now . 
We ought to be getting on towards the palace . 
It's as well to be early . 
So they went to the palace , and when they got there it was more splendid than anything they had seen yet . 
For it was glowing with colours , and with gold and silver and black and white like some magnificent embroidery . 
And there were the statues of great kings . 
All sorts of people were passing up the steps to seek audience of the Queen . 
Ladies in richly embroidered dresses with fringy flounces , poor folks in plain and simple clothes , dandies with beards oiled and curled . 
And Cyril , Robert , Anthea and Jane , went with the crowd . 
At the gate of the palace the Psammead put one eye cautiously out of the basket and whispered 'I can't be bothered with queens . 
I'll go home with this lady . 
I'm sure she'll get me some sand if you ask her to . 
'Oh ! don't leave us , said Jane . 
The woman was giving some last instructions in Court etiquette to Anthea , and did not hear Jane . 
'Don't be a little muff , said the Psammead quite fiercely . 
'It's not a bit of good your having a charm . 
If you want me you've only got to say the name of power and ask the charm to bring me to you . 
'I'd rather go with you , said Jane . 
And it was the most surprising thing she had ever said in her life . 
Everyone opened its mouth without thinking of manners , and Anthea , who was peeping into the Psammead's basket , saw that its mouth opened wider than anybody's . 
'You needn't gawp like that , Jane went on . 
'I'm not going to be bothered with queens any more than IT is . 
And I know , wherever it is , it'll take jolly good care that it's safe . 
'She's right there , said everyone , for they had observed that the Psammead had a way of knowing which side its bread was buttered . 
'Surely I will , little heart ! said the woman . 
And then Anthea hurriedly stroked the Psammead and embraced Jane , who took the woman's hand , and trotted contentedly away with the Psammead's bag under the other arm . 
The others stood looking after her till she , the woman , and the basket were lost in the many coloured crowd . 
Then Anthea turned once more to the palace's magnificent doorway and said 'Let's ask the porter to take care of our Babylonian overcoats . 
So they took off the garments that the woman had lent them and stood amid the jostling petitioners of the Queen in their own English frocks and coats and hats and boots . 
The door porter spoke to a black man , he spoke to someone else . 
There was a whispering , waiting pause . 
Then a big man , with a cleanly shaven face , beckoned them from the top of a flight of red marble steps . 
They went up the boots of Robert clattering more than usual because he was so nervous . 
A door swung open , a curtain was drawn back . 
'Three children from the land where the sun never sets ! Let them draw hither without fear . 
In another minute they were kneeling at the throne's foot , saying , 'O Queen , live for ever ! exactly as the woman had taught them . 
It's no use upsetting her , but we didn't ask for Jane's address , and the Psammead's with her . 
'Well , whispered Robert , 'the charm can bring them to us at any moment . 
'Oh , yes , whispered Cyril , in miserable derision , 'WE'RE all right , of course . 
So we are ! Oh , yes ! If we'd only GOT the charm . 
'Crikey ! Robert repeated in heart broken undertones . 
CHAPTER 'THE DEEPEST DUNGEON BELOW THE CASTLE MOAT' The Queen threw three of the red and gold embroidered cushions off the throne on to the marble steps that led up to it . 
'Just make yourselves comfortable there , she said . 
'I'm simply dying to talk to you , and to hear all about your wonderful country and how you got here , and everything , but I have to do justice every morning . 
'Ah , yes , said the Queen , 'I should much prefer a private audience myself much easier to manage . 
But public opinion has to be considered . 
Doing justice is very hard work , even when you're brought up to it . 
'We don't do justice , but we have to do scales , Jane and me , said Anthea , 'twenty minutes a day . 
'What are scales ? asked the Queen , 'and what is Jane ? 'Jane is my little sister . 
One of the guards at the gate's wife is taking care of her . 
'I never heard of the instrument , said the Queen . 
'Do you sing ? 'Oh , yes . 
We can sing in parts , said Anthea . 
'That IS magic , said the Queen . 
'How many parts are you each cut into before you do it ? 'We aren't cut at all , said Robert hastily . 
'We couldn't sing if we were . 
'So you shall , and now sit quiet like dear children and hear me do justice . 
The way I do it has always been admired . 
I oughtn't to say that ought I ? Sounds so conceited . 
But I don't mind with you , dears . 
Somehow I feel as though I'd known you quite a long time already . 
The Queen settled herself on her throne and made a signal to her attendants . 
The children , whispering together among the cushions on the steps of the throne , decided that she was very beautiful and very kind , but perhaps just the least bit flighty . 
The first person who came to ask for justice was a woman whose brother had taken the money the father had left for her . 
The brother said it was the uncle who had the money . 
'But suppose they both did it ? Cyril could not help interrupting . 
'Then prison's the best place for them , said the Queen . 
'But suppose neither did it . 
'That's impossible , said the Queen 'a thing's not done unless someone does it . 
Then came a woman , in tears , with a torn veil and real ashes on her head at least Anthea thought so , but it may have been only road dust . 
She complained that her husband was in prison . 
'What for ? said the Queen . 
'They SAID it was for speaking evil of your Majesty , said the woman , 'but it wasn't . 
Someone had a spite against him . 
That was what it was . 
'How do you know he hadn't spoken evil of me ? said the Queen . 
'No one could , said the woman simply , 'when they'd once seen your beautiful face . 
'Let the man out , said the Queen , smiling . 
The next case was that of a boy who had stolen a fox . 
'Like the Spartan boy , whispered Robert . 
But the Queen ruled that nobody could have any possible reason for owning a fox , and still less for stealing one . 
And she did not believe that there were any foxes in Babylon she , at any rate , had never seen one . 
So the boy was released . 
And the Queen decided everything , very , very decidedly indeed . 
At last she clapped her hands quite suddenly and with extreme loudness , and said 'The audience is over for today . 
Everyone said , 'May the Queen live for ever ! and went out . 
And the children were left alone in the justice hall with the Queen of Babylon and her ladies . 
'There ! said the Queen , with a long sigh of relief . 
She led them through long , narrow corridors whose walls they somehow felt , were very , very thick , into a sort of garden courtyard . 
Slaves spread cushions on a low , marble terrace , and a big man with a smooth face served cool drink in cups of gold studded with beryls . 
He drank a little from the Queen's cup before handing it to her . 
'Not at all , said she . 
'Ritti Marduk is a very clean man . 
And one has to have SOME ONE as taster , you know , because of poison . 
The word made the children feel rather creepy but Ritti Marduk had tasted all the cups , so they felt pretty safe . 
The drink was delicious very cold , and tasting like lemonade and partly like penny ices . 
'Leave us , said the Queen . 
And all the Court ladies , in their beautiful , many folded , many coloured , fringed dresses , filed out slowly , and the children were left alone with the Queen . 
'Now , she said , 'tell me all about yourselves . 
They looked at each other . 
'You , Bobs , said Cyril . 
'No Anthea , said Robert . 
'No you Cyril , said Anthea . 
'Don't you remember how pleased the Queen of India was when you told her all about us ? Cyril muttered that it was all very well , and so it was . 
For when he had told the tale of the Phoenix and the Carpet to the Ranee , it had been only the truth and all the truth that he had to tell . 
Cyril took refuge in the tale of the Psammead and its wonderful power of making wishes come true . 
The children had never been able to tell anyone before , and Cyril was surprised to find that the spell which kept them silent in London did not work here . 
'Something to do with our being in the Past , I suppose , he said to himself . 
'This is MOST interesting , said the Queen . 
'We must have this Psammead for the banquet tonight . 
Its performance will be one of the most popular turns in the whole programme . 
Where is it ? Anthea explained that they did not know also why it was that they did not know . 
'Oh , THAT'S quite simple , said the Queen , and everyone breathed a deep sigh of relief as she said it . 
'Ritti Marduk shall run down to the gates and find out which guard your sister went home with . 
'Might he' Anthea's voice was tremulous 'might he would it interfere with his meal times , or anything like that , if he went NOW ? 'Of course he shall go now . 
He may think himself lucky if he gets his meals at any time , said the Queen heartily , and clapped her hands . 
'Oh , I can scribe right enough , thanks , said Cyril , finding the pencil and licking its point . 
He even had to bite the wood a little , for it was very blunt . 
'Oh , you clever , clever boy ! said the Queen . 
'Hide IT most carefully before you come here , he wrote , 'and don't mention it and destroy this letter . 
The Queen is a fair treat . 
There's nothing to be afraid of . 
'What curious characters , and what a strange flat surface ! said the Queen . 
'O Queen , live for ever ! Is it a charm ? he timidly asked . 
'A strong charm , most great lady ? 'YES , said Robert , unexpectedly , 'it IS a charm , but it won't hurt anyone until you've given it to Jane . 
And then she'll destroy it , so that it CAN'T hurt anyone . 
It's most awful strong ! as strong as Peppermint ! he ended abruptly . 
'I know not the god , said Ritti Marduk , bending timorously . 
'She'll tear it up directly she gets it , said Robert , 'That'll end the charm . 
You needn't be afraid if you go now . 
She ruffled the leaves delightedly . 
'What a wonderful substance ! she said . 
She took the book and hid it reverently among the bright folds of her gown . 
'You shall teach me later to say the great names , she said . 
'And the names of their Ministers perhaps the great Nisroch is one of them ? 'I don't think so , said Cyril . 
'My head's going round with all those great names . 
Besides , I'm sure you'd like ME to tell YOU something , wouldn't you ? 'Yes , said Anthea . 
'I want to know how it is that the King has gone 'Excuse me , but you should say the King may he live for ever , said the Queen gently . 
And , besides , he hasn't killed YOU at any rate . 
'She means , explained Robert , 'that English kings only have one wife at least , Henry the Eighth had seven or eight , but not all at once . 
'In our country , said the Queen scornfully , 'a king would not reign a day who had only one wife . 
No one would respect him , and quite right too . 
'Then are all the other thirteen alive ? asked Anthea . 
'Of course they are poor mean spirited things ! I don't associate with them , of course , I am the Queen they're only the wives . 
'I see , said Anthea , gasping . 
'But oh , my dears , the Queen went on , 'such a to do as there's been about this last wife ! You never did ! It really was TOO funny . 
We wanted an Egyptian princess . 
The King may he live for ever has got a wife from most of the important nations , and he had set his heart on an Egyptian one to complete his collection . 
Well , of course , to begin with , we sent a handsome present of gold . 
And so it went on , oh , for years . 
You see each journey takes at least six months . 
And at last we asked the hand of his daughter in marriage . 
'Yes , and then ? said Anthea , who wanted to get to the princess part of the story . 
She'll be here tonight there'll be a grand banquet to celebrate her arrival . 
SHE won't be present , of course . 
She'll be having her baths and her anointings , and all that sort of thing . 
We always clean our foreign brides very carefully . 
It takes two or three weeks . 
Now it's dinnertime , and you shall eat with me , for I can see that you are of high rank . 
She led them into a dark , cool hall , with many cushions on the floor . 
On these they sat and low tables were brought beautiful tables of smooth , blue stone mounted in gold . 
On these , golden trays were placed but there were no knives , or forks , or spoons . 
The children expected the Queen to call for them but no . 
There were stewed quinces afterwards , and dates in syrup , and thick yellowy cream . 
It was the kind of dinner you hardly ever get in Fitzroy Street . 
After dinner everybody went to sleep , even the children . 
The Queen awoke with a start . 
'Good gracious ! she cried , 'what a time we've slept ! I must rush off and dress for the banquet . 
I shan't have much more than time . 
'Hasn't Ritti Marduk got back with our sister and the Psammead yet ? Anthea asked . 
'I QUITE forgot to ask . 
I'm sorry , said the Queen . 
'And of course they wouldn't announce her unless I told them to , except during justice hours . 
I expect she's waiting outside . 
Ritti Marduk came in a moment later . 
'I regret , he said , 'that I have been unable to find your sister . 
The beast she bears with her in a basket has bitten the child of the guard , and your sister and the beast set out to come to you . 
The police say they have a clue . 
No doubt we shall have news of her in a few weeks . 
The horror of this threefold loss Jane , the Psammead , and the Amulet gave the children something to talk about while the Queen was dressing . 
I shall not report their conversation it was very gloomy . 
Everyone repeated himself several times , and the discussion ended in each of them blaming the other two for having let Jane go . 
You know the sort of talk it was , don't you ? At last Cyril said 'After all , she's with the Psammead , so SHE'S all right . 
The Psammead is jolly careful of itself too . 
And it isn't as if we were in any danger . 
Let's try to buck up and enjoy the banquet . 
They did enjoy the banquet . 
They had a beautiful bath , which was delicious , were heavily oiled all over , including their hair , and that was most unpleasant . 
Then , they dressed again and were presented to the King , who was most affable . 
The banquet was long there were all sorts of nice things to eat , and everybody seemed to eat and drink a good deal . 
The Court dresses had gold threads woven in them , very bright and beautiful . 
The middle of the room was left clear , and different people came and did amusing things . 
There were conjurers and jugglers and snake charmers , which last Anthea did not like at all . 
When it got dark torches were lighted . 
Cedar splinters dipped in oil blazed in copper dishes set high on poles . 
Then there was a dancer , who hardly danced at all , only just struck attitudes . 
She had hardly any clothes , and was not at all pretty . 
The children were rather bored by her , but everyone else was delighted , including the King . 
And the King was so pleased with this modest and sensible reply that he gave her the gold collar off his own neck . 
'I say ! said Cyril , awed by the magnificence of the gift . 
'It's all right , whispered the Queen , 'it's not his best collar by any means . 
We always keep a stock of cheap jewellery for these occasions . 
And now you promised to sing us something . 
Would you like my minstrels to accompany you ? 'No , thank you , said Anthea quickly . 
They had enjoyed this band very much at the time . 
But it was quite different when someone else was making the same kind of music . 
Anthea understood now that Father had not been really heartless and unreasonable when he had told them to stop that infuriating din . 
'What shall we sing ? Cyril was asking . 
'Sweet and low ? suggested Anthea . 
'Too soft I vote for Who will o'er the downs . 
Now then one , two , three . 
'More , more , cried the King 'by my beard , this savage music is a new thing . 
Sing again ! So they sang 'I saw her bower at twilight gray , 'Twas guarded safe and sure . 
I saw her bower at break of day , 'Twas guarded then no more . 
The varlets they were all asleep , And there was none to see The greeting fair that passed there Between my love and me . 
twice over , and ended up with 'Men of Harlech' in unison . 
'No , no , I'm sure the other's manners , said Anthea . 
But Robert , who was excited by the music , and the flaring torches , and the applause and the opportunity , spoke up before the others could stop him . 
'Give us the half of the Amulet that has on it the name UR HEKAU SETCHEH , he said , adding as an afterthought , 'O King , live for ever . 
As he spoke the great name those in the pillared hall fell on their faces , and lay still . 
It was only for a moment though . 
Very splendid they were , and very alarming . 
'Impious and sacrilegious wretches ! shouted the King . 
'To the dungeons with them ! We will find a way , tomorrow , to make them speak . 
For without doubt they can tell us where to find the lost half of It . 
A wall of scarlet and white and steel and gold closed up round the children and hurried them away among the many pillars of the great hall . 
As they went they heard the voices of the courtiers loud in horror . 
'You've done it this time , said Cyril with extreme bitterness . 
'Oh , it will come right . 
It always does , said Anthea desperately . 
Then there was more stone , and steps down . 
'It's my belief we really ARE going to the deepest dungeon below the castle moat this time , said Cyril . 
At least it was not below a moat , but below the river Euphrates , which was just as bad if not worse . 
In a most unpleasant place it was . 
Dark , very , very damp , and with an odd , musty smell rather like the shells of oysters . 
There was a torch that is to say , a copper basket on a high stick with oiled wood burning in it . 
By its light the children saw that the walls were green , and that trickles of water ran down them and dripped from the roof . 
There were things on the floor that looked like newts , and in the dark corners creepy , shiny things moved sluggishly , uneasily , horribly . 
Robert's heart sank right into those really reliable boots of his . 
Anthea and Cyril each had a private struggle with that inside disagreeableness which is part of all of us , and which is sometimes called the Old Adam and both were victors . 
, 'This is YOUR doing . 
Anthea had the additional temptation to add , 'I told you so . 
And she resisted it successfully . 
'Sacrilege , and impious cheek , said the captain of the guard to the gaoler . 
'To be kept during the King's pleasure . 
I expect he means to get some pleasure out of them tomorrow ! He'll tickle them up ! 'Poor little kids , said the gaoler . 
'Oh , yes , said the captain . 
'I've got kids of my own too . 
But it doesn't do to let domestic sentiment interfere with one's public duties . 
The soldiers tramped heavily off in their white and red and steel and gold . 
The gaoler , with a bunch of big keys in his hand , stood looking pityingly at the children . 
He shook his head twice and went out . 
'I know it will be all right . 
It's only a dream REALLY , you know . 
It MUST be ! I don't believe about time being only a something or other of thought . 
It IS a dream , and we're bound to wake up all right and safe . 
'Humph , said Cyril bitterly . 
And Robert suddenly said 'It's all my doing . 
If it really IS all up do please not keep a down on me about it , and tell Father Oh , I forgot . 
What he had forgotten was that his father was , miles and , or more years away from him . 
'All right , Bobs , old man , said Cyril and Anthea got hold of Robert's hand and squeezed it . 
'Oh , thank you so very much . 
You ARE kind , said Anthea feverishly . 
'Go to sleep , said the gaoler , pointing to a heap of straw in a corner 'tomorrow comes soon enough . 
Then perhaps they'll sell you to the Northern nations . 
'Good night , said three trembling voices , which their owners strove in vain to render firm . 
Then he went out , and the three were left alone in the damp , dim vault . 
'I know the light won't last long , said Cyril , looking at the flickering brazier . 
'Is it any good , do you think , calling on the name when we haven't got the charm ? suggested Anthea . 
But the blank silence of the damp dungeon remained unchanged . 
'What was the name the Queen said ? asked Cyril suddenly . 
'Nisbeth Nesbit something ? You know , the slave of the great names ? 'Wait a sec , said Robert , 'though I don't know why you want it . 
Nusroch Nisrock Nisroch that's it . 
Then Anthea pulled herself together . 
All her muscles tightened , and the muscles of her mind and soul , if you can call them that , tightened too . 
'UR HEKAU SETCHEH , she cried in a fervent voice . 
'Oh , Nisroch , servant of the Great Ones , come and help us ! There was a waiting silence . 
Then a cold , blue light awoke in the corner where the straw was and in the light they saw coming towards them a strange and terrible figure . 
I will just say that it had eagle's wings and an eagle's head and the body of a man . 
It came towards them , strong and unspeakably horrible . 
'Oh , go away , cried Anthea but Cyril cried , 'No stay ! The creature hesitated , then bowed low before them on the damp floor of the dungeon . 
'Speak , it said , in a harsh , grating voice like large rusty keys being turned in locks . 
'The servant of the Great Ones is YOUR servant . 
What is your need that you call on the name of Nisroch ? 'We want to go home , said Robert . 
'No , no , cried Anthea 'we want to be where Jane is . 
Nisroch raised his great arm and pointed at the wall of the dungeon . 
On a blue covered couch lay Jane fast asleep . 
'Walk forward without fear , said Nisroch . 
'Is there aught else that the Servant of the great Name can do for those who speak that name ? 'No oh , no , said Cyril . 
'You are a dear , cried Anthea , not in the least knowing what she was saying . 
'Oh , thank you thank you . 
But DO go NOW ! She caught the hand of the creature , and it was cold and hard in hers , like a hand of stone . 
'Go forward , said Nisroch . 
'Oh , my good gracious , said the Queen as they stood before her . 
'How did you get here ? I KNEW you were magic . 
I meant to let you out the first thing in the morning , if I could slip away but thanks be to Dagon , you've managed it for yourselves . 
She shook Jane with energy , and Jane slowly awoke . 
'Ritti Marduk brought them in hours ago , really , said the Queen , 'but I wanted to have the Psammead all to myself for a bit . 
You'll excuse the little natural deception ? it's part of the Babylonish character , don't you know ? But I don't want anything to happen to you . 
Do let me rouse someone . 
'No , no , no , said Anthea with desperate earnestness . 
She thought she knew enough of what the Babylonians were like when they were roused . 
'We can go by our own magic . 
And you will tell the King it wasn't the gaoler's fault . 
'Nisroch ! echoed the Queen . 
Jane sat up , blinking stupidly . 
'Hold It up , and say the word , cried Cyril , catching up the Psammead , which mechanically bit him , but only very slightly . 
'Which is the East ? asked Jane . 
'Behind me , said the Queen . 
'Why ? 'Ur Hekau Setcheh , said Jane sleepily , and held up the charm . 
And there they all were in the dining room at , Fitzroy Street . 
'Jane , cried Cyril with great presence of mind , 'go and get the plate of sand down for the Psammead . 
'Look here ! he said quickly , as the sound of her boots grew less loud on the stairs , 'don't let's tell her about the dungeon and all that . 
It'll only frighten her so that she'll never want to go anywhere else . 
'Righto ! said Cyril but Anthea felt that she could not have said a word to save her life . 
'Why did you want to come back in such a hurry ? asked Jane , returning with the plate of sand . 
'It was awfully jolly in Babylon , I think ! I liked it no end . 
'Oh , yes , said Cyril carelessly . 
'It was jolly enough , of course , but I thought we'd been there long enough . 
'It wasn't much good going , said Jane , 'if you didn't even try to get the Amulet . 
'We found out it was no go , said Cyril 'it's not to be got in Babylon . 
It was lost before that . 
We'll go to some other jolly friendly place , where everyone is kind and pleasant , and look for it there . 
Now tell us about your part . 
'Oh , said Jane , 'the Queen's man with the smooth face what was his name ? 'Ritti Marduk , said Cyril . 
And we had supper with the new little Queen from Egypt . 
She is a dear not much older than you . 
She told me heaps about Egypt . 
And we played ball after supper . 
And then the Babylon Queen sent for me . 
And she talked to the Psammead and I went to sleep . 
And then you woke me up . 
The Psammead , roused from its sound sleep , told the same story . 
'But , it added , 'what possessed you to tell that Queen that I could give wishes ? I sometimes think you were born without even the most rudimentary imitation of brains . 
The children did not know the meaning of rudimentary , but it sounded a rude , insulting word . 
'I don't see that we did any harm , said Cyril sulkily . 
And soon may mean any moment . 
'Then it's your fault , said Robert , 'because you might just as well have made soon mean some moment next year or next century . 
'That's where you , as so often happens , make the mistake , rejoined the Sand fairy . 
I couldn't mean anything but what SHE meant by soon . 
And what SHE meant was the next time the King happens to go out lion hunting . 
So she'll have a whole day , and perhaps two , to do as she wishes with . 
SHE doesn't know about time only being a mode of thought . 
'Well , said Cyril , with a sigh of resignation , 'we must do what we can to give her a good time . 
She was jolly decent to us . 
I say , suppose we were to go to St James's Park after dinner and feed those ducks that we never did feed . 
After all that Babylon and all those years ago , I feel as if I should like to see something REAL , and NOW . 
You'll come , Psammead ? 'Where's my priceless woven basket of sacred rushes ? asked the Psammead morosely . 
'I can't go out with nothing on . 
And I won't , what's more . 
And then everybody remembered with pain that the bass bag had , in the hurry of departure from Babylon , not been remembered . 
'But it's not so extra precious , said Robert hastily . 
'You can get them given to you for nothing if you buy fish in Farringdon Market . 
Very well , I shall go to sand . 
And it went then and there to sand , which , as you know , meant to bed . 
The boys went to St James's Park to feed the ducks , but they went alone . 
Anthea and Jane sat sewing all the afternoon . 
They cut off half a yard from each of their best green Liberty sashes . 
A towel cut in two formed a lining and they sat and sewed and sewed and sewed . 
What they were making was a bag for the Psammead . 
Each worked at a half of the bag . 
jane's half had four leaved shamrocks embroidered on it . 
And even so , Anthea had to draw the pattern for her . 
Anthea's side of the bag had letters on it worked hastily but affectionately in chain stitch . 
They were something like this PSAMS TRAVEL CAR She would have put 'travelling carriage' , but she made the letters too big , so there was no room . 
The bag was made INTO a bag with old Nurse's sewing machine , and the strings of it were Anthea's and Jane's best red hair ribbons . 
'Humph , it said , sniffing a little contemptuously , yet at the same time affectionately , 'it's not so dusty . 
The Psammead seemed to pick up very easily the kind of things that people said nowadays . 
For a creature that had in its time associated with Megatheriums and Pterodactyls , its quickness was really wonderful . 
'It's more worthy of me , it said , 'than the kind of bag that's given away with a pound of plaice . 
When do you propose to take me out in it ? 'I should like a rest from taking you or us anywhere , said Cyril . 
But Jane said 'I want to go to Egypt . 
I did like that Egyptian Princess that came to marry the King in Babylon . 
She told me about the larks they have in Egypt . 
And I told her what the bird things on the Amulet were like . 
And she said it was Egyptian writing . 
The others exchanged looks of silent rejoicing at the thought of their cleverness in having concealed from Jane the terrors they had suffered in the dungeon below the Euphrates . 
'Egypt's so nice too , Jane went on , 'because of Doctor Brewer's Scripture History . 
I would like to go there when Joseph was dreaming those curious dreams , or when Moses was doing wonderful things with snakes and sticks . 
'I don't care about snakes , said Anthea shuddering . 
'Well , we needn't be in at that part , but Babylon was lovely ! We had cream and sweet , sticky stuff . 
And I expect Egypt's the same . 
There was a good deal of discussion , but it all ended in everybody's agreeing to Jane's idea . 
the Psammead was invited to get into his travelling carriage . 
'Well , chickies , she said , 'are you feeling very dull ? 'Oh , no , Nurse dear , said Anthea 'we're having a lovely time . 
We're just going off to see some old ancient relics . 
'Ah , said old Nurse , 'the Royal Academy , I suppose ? Don't go wasting your money too reckless , that's all . 
give it to their coachmen . 
'To Egypt , please ! said Anthea , when Cyril had uttered the wonderful Name of Power . 
'When Moses was there , added Jane . 
'No , stop ! said Cyril , and pulled down jane's hand with the Amulet in it . 
'What silly cuckoos we all are , he said . 
'Of course we can't go . 
We daren't leave home for a single minute now , for fear that minute should be THE minute . 
'What minute be WHAT minute ? asked Jane impatiently , trying to get her hand away from Cyril . 
'The minute when the Queen of Babylon comes , said Cyril . 
And then everyone saw it . 
For some days life flowed in a very slow , dusty , uneventful stream . 
So they took it in turns , two and two , to go out and to stay in . 
The stay at homes would have been much duller than they were but for the new interest taken in them by the learned gentleman . 
He called Anthea in one day to show her a beautiful necklace of purple and gold beads . 
'I saw one like that , she said , 'in 'In the British Museum , perhaps ? 'I like to call the place where I saw it Babylon , said Anthea cautiously . 
'A pretty fancy , said the learned gentleman , 'and quite correct too , because , as a matter of fact , these beads did come from Babylon . 
The other three were all out that day . 
And she had run , catching the boys before that part of the road where Fitzroy Street suddenly becomes Fitzroy Square . 
'I think Babylon is most frightfully interesting , said Anthea . 
'I do have such interesting dreams about it at least , not dreams exactly , but quite as wonderful . 
'Do sit down and tell me , said he . 
So she sat down and told . 
And he asked her a lot of questions , and she answered them as well as she could . 
'Wonderful wonderful ! he said at last . 
'One's heard of thought transference , but I never thought I had any power of that sort . 
Yet it must be that , and very bad for YOU , I should think . 
Doesn't your head ache very much ? He suddenly put a cold , thin hand on her forehead . 
'No thank you , not at all , said she . 
'I assure you it is not done intentionally , he went on . 
'It's all right , said Anthea reassuringly . 
It's all quite simple really . 
'Good gracious ! cried Anthea , 'what's that ? The loud hum of many voices came through the open window . 
''Ere's a guy ! 'This ain't November . 
It's a ballet lady , that's what it is . 
'Not it it's a bloomin' looney , I tell you . 
Then came a clear voice that they knew . 
'Retire , slaves ! it said . 
'What's she a saying of ? cried a dozen voices . 
'Some blamed foreign lingo , one voice replied . 
The children rushed to the door . 
A crowd was on the road and pavement . 
In the middle of the crowd , plainly to be seen from the top of the steps , were the beautiful face and bright veil of the Babylonian Queen . 
'Jimminy ! cried Robert , and ran down the steps , 'here she is ! 'Here ! he cried , 'look out let the lady pass . 
She's a friend of ours , coming to see us . 
'Nice friend for a respectable house , snorted a fat woman with marrows on a handcart . 
All the same the crowd made way a little . 
The Queen met Robert on the pavement , and Cyril joined them , the Psammead bag still on his arm . 
'Here , he whispered 'here's the Psammead you can get wishes . 
I wish you'd come in a different dress , if you HAD to come , said Robert 'but it's no use my wishing anything . 
'No , said the Queen . 
'I wish I was dressed no , I don't I wish THEY were dressed properly , then they wouldn't be so silly . 
'Lawky me ! said the marrow selling woman , 'whatever could a took me to come out this figure ? and she wheeled her cart away very quickly indeed . 
'Someone's made a pretty guy of you talk of guys , said a man who sold bootlaces . 
'Well , don't you talk , said the man next to him . 
'Look at your own silly legs and where's your boots ? 'I never come out like this , I'll take my sacred , said the bootlace seller . 
'I wasn't quite myself last night , I'll own , but not to dress up like a circus . 
The crowd was all talking at once , and getting rather angry . 
But no one seemed to think of blaming the Queen . 
Anthea bounded down the steps and pulled her up the others followed , and the door was shut . 
'Blowed if I can make it out ! they heard . 
'I'm off home , I am . 
And the crowd , coming slowly to the same mind , dispersed , followed by another crowd of persons who were not dressed in what the Queen thought was the proper way . 
'We shall have the police here directly , said Anthea in the tones of despair . 
'Oh , why did you come dressed like that ? The Queen leaned against the arm of the horse hair sofa . 
'How else can a queen dress I should like to know ? she questioned . 
'Our Queen wears things like other people , said Cyril . 
And I must say , she remarked in an injured tone , 'that you don't seem very glad to see me now I HAVE come . 
But perhaps it's the surprise that makes you behave like this . 
Yet you ought to be used to surprises . 
The way you vanished ! I shall never forget it . 
The best magic I've ever seen . 
How did you do it ? 'Oh , never mind about that now , said Robert . 
'You see you've gone and upset all those people , and I expect they'll fetch the police . 
And we don't want to see you collared and put in prison . 
'You can't put queens in prison , she said loftily . 
'Oh , can't you ? said Cyril . 
'We cut off a king's head here once . 
'In this miserable room ? How frightfully interesting . 
'No , no , not in this room in history . 
'Oh , in THAT , said the Queen disparagingly . 
'I thought you'd done it with your own hands . 
'What a hideous city yours is , the Queen went on pleasantly , 'and what horrid , ignorant people . 
Do you know they actually can't understand a single word I say . 
'Can you understand them ? asked Jane . 
'Of course not they speak some vulgar , Northern dialect . 
I can understand YOU quite well . 
just as though they were talking English . 
'I wished to be at your door , and I was . 
Now I must go and see your King and Queen . 
'There's the Museum , said Cyril hopefully 'there are lots of things from your country there . 
If only we could disguise you a little . 
'I know , said Anthea suddenly . 
'Mother's old theatre cloak , and there are a lot of her old hats in the big box . 
The blue silk , lace trimmed cloak did indeed hide some of the Queen's startling splendours , but the hat fitted very badly . 
It had pink roses in it and there was something about the coat or the hat or the Queen , that made her look somehow not very respectable . 
'Oh , never mind , said Anthea , when Cyril whispered this . 
'The thing is to get her out before Nurse has finished her forty winks . 
I should think she's about got to the thirty ninth wink by now . 
'Come on then , said Robert . 
'You know how dangerous it is . 
Let's make haste into the Museum . 
If any of those people you made guys of do fetch the police , they won't think of looking for you there . 
'Parcels and umbrellas to be left here , said a man at the counter . 
The party had no umbrellas , and the only parcel was the bag containing the Psammead , which the Queen had insisted should be brought . 
'I'M not going to be left , said the Psammead softly , 'so don't you think it . 
'I'll wait outside with you , said Anthea hastily , and went to sit on the seat near the drinking fountain . 
'Don't sit so near that nasty fountain , said the creature crossly 'I might get splashed . 
Anthea obediently moved to another seat and waited . 
Indeed she waited , and waited , and waited , and waited , and waited . 
The Psammead dropped into an uneasy slumber . 
Anthea had long ceased to watch the swing door that always let out the wrong person , and she was herself almost asleep , and still the others did not come back . 
It was quite a start when Anthea suddenly realized that they HAD come back , and that they were not alone . 
Behind them was quite a crowd of men in uniform , and several gentlemen were there . 
'Now go , said the nicest of the angry gentlemen . 
'Take the poor , demented thing home and tell your parents she ought to be properly looked after . 
'If you can't get her to go we must send for the police , said the nastiest gentleman . 
'But we don't wish to use harsh measures , added the nice one , who was really very nice indeed , and seemed to be over all the others . 
'May I speak to my sister a moment first ? asked Robert . 
The nicest gentleman nodded , and the officials stood round the Queen , the others forming a sort of guard while Robert crossed over to Anthea . 
'Everything you can think of , he replied to Anthea's glance of inquiry . 
'Kicked up the most frightful shine in there . 
Said those necklaces and earrings and things in the glass cases were all hers would have them out of the cases . 
Tried to break the glass she did break one bit ! Everybody in the place has been at her . 
I only got her out by telling her that was the place where they cut queens' heads off . 
'Oh , Bobs , what a whacker ! 'You'd have told a whackinger one to get her out . 
'Do come home , she said 'the learned gentleman in our house has a much nicer necklace than anything they've got here . 
'You see , said the nastiest gentleman , 'she does understand English . 
'I was talking Babylonian , I think , said Anthea bashfully . 
'My good child , said the nice gentleman , 'what you're talking is not Babylonian , but nonsense . 
You just go home at once , and tell your parents exactly what has happened . 
Anthea took the Queen's hand and gently pulled her away . 
The other children followed , and the black crowd of angry gentlemen stood on the steps watching them . 
'Oh , you ARE a tiresome woman , said the Psammead in its bag , but it puffed itself out . 
Next moment there was a crash . 
The glass swing doors and all their framework were smashed suddenly and completely . 
The crowd of angry gentlemen sprang aside when they saw what had done this . 
But the nastiest of them was not quick enough , and he was roughly pushed out of the way by an enormous stone bull that was floating steadily through the door . 
It came and stood beside the Queen in the middle of the courtyard . 
All the angry gentlemen had abruptly sat down on the Museum steps except the nice one . 
He stood with his hands in his pockets just as though he was quite used to seeing great stone bulls and all sorts of small Babylonish objects float out into the Museum yard . 
But he sent a man to close the big iron gates . 
A journalist , who was just leaving the museum , spoke to Robert as he passed . 
'Theosophy , I suppose ? he said . 
'Is she Mrs Besant ? 'YES , said Robert recklessly . 
The journalist passed through the gates just before they were shut . 
He rushed off to Fleet Street , and his paper got out a new edition within half an hour . 
MRS BESANT AND THEOSOPHY IMPERTINENT MIRACLE AT THE BRITISH MUSEUM . 
People saw it in fat , black letters on the boards carried by the sellers of newspapers . 
Some few people who had nothing better to do went down to the Museum on the tops of omnibuses . 
But by the time they got there there was nothing to be seen . 
For the Babylonian Queen had suddenly seen the closed gates , had felt the threat of them , and had said 'I wish we were in your house . 
And , of course , instantly they were . 
'Look here , it said , 'they'll come after you , and they'll find ME . 
There'll be a National Cage built for me at Westminster , and I shall have to work at politics . 
Why wouldn't you leave the things in their places ? 'What a temper you have , haven't you ? said the Queen serenely . 
'I wish all the things were back in their places . 
Will THAT do for you ? The Psammead swelled and shrank and spoke very angrily . 
'I can't refuse to give your wishes , it said , 'but I can Bite . 
And I will if this goes on . 
'Ah , don't , whispered Anthea close to its bristling ear 'it's dreadful for us too . 
Perhaps she'll wish herself at home again soon . 
'Not she , said the Psammead a little less crossly . 
'Take me to see your City , said the Queen . 
The children looked at each other . 
'If we had some money we could take her about in a cab . 
People wouldn't notice her so much then . 
'Sell this , said the Queen , taking a ring from her finger . 
'They'd only think we'd stolen it , said Cyril bitterly , 'and put us in prison . 
'All roads lead to prison with you , it seems , said the Queen . 
'The learned gentleman ! said Anthea , and ran up to him with the ring in her hand . 
'Look here , she said , 'will you buy this for a pound ? 'Oh ! he said in tones of joy and amazement , and took the ring into his hand . 
'It's my very own , said Anthea 'it was given to me to sell . 
'I'll lend you a pound , said the learned gentleman , 'with pleasure and I'll take care of the ring for you . 
Who did you say gave it to you ? 'We call her , said Anthea carefully , 'the Queen of Babylon . 
'Is it a game ? he asked hopefully . 
'It'll be a pretty game if I don't get the money to pay for cabs for her , said Anthea . 
'I sometimes think , he said slowly , 'that I am becoming insane , or that 'Or that I am but I'm not , and you're not , and she's not . 
'Does she SAY that she's the Queen of Babylon ? he uneasily asked . 
'Yes , said Anthea recklessly . 
'This thought transference is more far reaching than I imagined , he said . 
'I suppose I have unconsciously influenced HER , too . 
I never thought my Babylonish studies would bear fruit like this . 
Horrible ! There are more things in heaven and earth 'Yes , said Anthea , 'heaps more . 
And the pound is the thing I want more than anything on earth . 
He ran his fingers through his thin hair . 
'This thought transference ! he said . 
'It's undoubtedly a Babylonian ring or it seems so to me . 
But perhaps I have hypnotized myself . 
I will see a doctor the moment I have corrected the last proofs of my book . 
'Yes , do ! said Anthea , 'and thank you so very much . 
She took the sovereign and ran down to the others . 
And now from the window of a four wheeled cab the Queen of Babylon beheld the wonders of London . 
Buckingham Palace she thought uninteresting Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament little better . 
But she liked the Tower , and the River , and the ships filled her with wonder and delight . 
'But how badly you keep your slaves . 
How wretched and poor and neglected they seem , she said , as the cab rattled along the Mile End Road . 
'They aren't slaves they're working people , said Jane . 
Do you suppose I don't know a slave's face when I see it ? Why don't their masters see that they're better fed and better clothed ? Tell me in three words . 
The wage system of modern England is a little difficult to explain in three words even if you understand it which the children didn't . 
'You'll have a revolt of your slaves if you're not careful , said the Queen . 
'Oh , no , said Cyril 'you see they have votes that makes them safe not to revolt . 
It makes all the difference . 
'What is this vote ? asked the Queen . 
'I see , said the Queen 'a sort of plaything . 
Well , I wish that all these slaves may have in their hands this moment their fill of their favourite meat and drink . 
Instantly all the people in the Mile End Road , and in all the other streets where poor people live , found their hands full of things to eat and drink . 
From the cab window could be seen persons carrying every kind of food , and bottles and cans as well . 
'Makes a difference , doesn't it ? said the Queen . 
'That's the best wish you've had yet , said Jane with cordial approval . 
just by the Bank the cabman stopped . 
'I ain't agoin' to drive you no further , he said . 
They got out rather unwillingly . 
'You pay me my fare , he said threateningly , and looked down at the mound , muttering again about his tea . 
'We'll take another cab , said Cyril with dignity . 
'Give me change for a sovereign , if you please . 
But the cabman , as it turned out , was not at all a nice character . 
He took the sovereign , whipped up his horse , and disappeared in the stream of cabs and omnibuses and wagons , without giving them any change at all . 
Already a little crowd was collecting round the party . 
'Come on , said Robert , leading the wrong way . 
The crowd round them thickened . 
They were in a narrow street where many gentlemen in black coats and without hats were standing about on the pavement talking very loudly . 
'How ugly their clothes are , said the Queen of Babylon . 
'They'd be rather fine men , some of them , if they were dressed decently , especially the ones with the beautiful long , curved noses . 
I wish they were dressed like the Babylonians of my court . 
And of course , it was so . 
The moment the almost fainting Psammead had blown itself out every man in Throgmorton Street appeared abruptly in Babylonian full dress . 
All were carefully powdered , their hair and beards were scented and curled , their garments richly embroidered . 
They wore rings and armlets , flat gold collars and swords , and impossible looking head dresses . 
A stupefied silence fell on them . 
'I say , a youth who had always been fair haired broke that silence , 'it's only fancy of course something wrong with my eyes but you chaps do look so rum . 
'Rum , said his friend . 
You in a sash ! My hat ! And your hair's gone black and you've got a beard . 
It's my belief we've been poisoned . 
You do look a jackape . 
'Old Levinstein don't look so bad . 
But how was it DONE that's what I want to know . 
Oh yes , without doubt a very bad tream ! 'Then I'm dreaming too , Sir , said the clerk , looking down at his legs with an expression of loathing . 
'I see my feet in beastly sandals as plain as plain . 
'All that goot food wasted , said old Mr Levinstein . 
A bad tream a bad tream . 
The Members of the Stock Exchange are said to be at all times a noisy lot . 
But the noise they made now to express their disgust at the costumes of ancient Babylon was far louder than their ordinary row . 
One had to shout before one could hear oneself speak . 
'I only wish , said the clerk who thought it was conjuring he was quite close to the children and they trembled , because they knew that whatever he wished would come true . 
'I only wish we knew who'd done it . 
And , of course , instantly they did know , and they pressed round the Queen . 
'Scandalous ! Shameful ! Ought to be put down by law . 
Fetch the police , two or three voices shouted at once . 
'What is it ? she asked . 
'They sound like caged lions lions by the thousand . 
What is it that they say ? 'They say Police ! , said Cyril briefly . 
'I knew they would sooner or later . 
And I don't blame them , mind you . 
'I wish my guards were here ! cried the Queen . 
'I'm mad , said a Mr Rosenbaum 'dat's what it is mad ! 'It's a judgement on you , Rosy , said his partner . 
'I always said you were too hard in that matter of Flowerdew . 
It's a judgement , and I'm in it too . 
The members of the Stock Exchange had edged carefully away from the gleaming blades , the mailed figures , the hard , cruel Eastern faces . 
But Throgmorton Street is narrow , and the crowd was too thick for them to get away as quickly as they wished . 
'Kill them , cried the Queen . 
'Kill the dogs ! The guards obeyed . 
'It IS all a dream , cried Mr Levinstein , cowering in a doorway behind his clerk . 
'It isn't , said the clerk . 
Oh , my good gracious ! those foreign brutes are killing everybody . 
A dream ? I wish to goodness it was all a dream . 
No one said a word about it to anyone else . 
I think I have explained before that business men do not like it to be known that they have been dreaming in business hours . 
Especially mad dreams including such dreadful things as hungry people getting dinners , and the destruction of the Stock Exchange . 
The children were in the dining room at , Fitzroy Street , pale and trembling . 
The Psammead crawled out of the embroidered bag , and lay flat on the table , its leg stretched out , looking more like a dead hare than anything else . 
'Thank Goodness that's over , said Anthea , drawing a deep breath . 
'She won't come back , will she ? asked Jane tremulously . 
'She's thousands of years ago . 
But we spent a whole precious pound on her . 
It'll take all our pocket money for ages to pay that back . 
'Not if it was ALL a dream , said Robert . 
'The wish said ALL a dream , you know , Panther you cut up and ask if he lent you anything . 
The ring was a magnificent specimen . 
'I wish it hadn't been a dream , he said smiling . 
He was really learning to smile quite nicely . 
Anthea could not be too thankful that the Psammead was not there to grant his wish . 
CHAPTER ATLANTIS You will understand that the adventure of the Babylonian queen in London was the only one that had occupied any time at all . 
They talked of the Past at their meals , in their walks , in the dining room , in the first floor drawing room , but most of all on the stairs . 
It was an old house it had once been a fashionable one , and was a fine one still . 
One day Cyril and Robert in tight white underclothing had spent a pleasant hour in reproducing the attitudes of statues seen either in the British Museum , or in Father's big photograph book . 
'I hope you're satisfied , said Cyril , holding his head where a large lump was rising . 
'Quite , thanks , said Robert bitterly . 
His thumb had caught in the banisters and bent itself back almost to breaking point . 
'I AM so sorry , poor , dear Squirrel , said Anthea 'and you were looking so lovely . 
I'll get a wet rag . 
Bobs , go and hold your hand under the hot water tap . 
It's what ballet girls do with their legs when they hurt them . 
I saw it in a book . 
'What book ? said Robert disagreeably . 
Robert replying with equal suavity , Anthea hastened to lead the talk away from the accident . 
'I suppose you don't feel like going anywhere through the Amulet , she said . 
'Egypt ! said Jane promptly . 
'I want to see the pussy cats . 
'Not me too hot , said Cyril . 
'It's about as much as I can stand here let alone Egypt . 
It was indeed , hot , even on the second landing , which was the coolest place in the house . 
'Let's go to the North Pole . 
'I don't suppose the Amulet was ever there and we might get our fingers frost bitten so that we could never hold it up to get home again . 
No thanks , said Robert . 
'I say , said Jane , 'let's get the Psammead and ask its advice . 
It will like us asking , even if we don't take it . 
He seemed to be speaking with the door handle in his hand . 
'You see a doctor , old boy , he said 'all that about thought transference is just simply twaddle . 
'I'd rather go to Babylon , said the learned gentleman . 
'I wish you'd go to Atlantis some time , while we're about it , so as to give me some tips for my Nineteenth Century article when you come home . 
'I wish I could , said the voice of the learned gentleman . 
The door was banged , and the visitor came smiling down the stairs a stout , prosperous , big man . 
The children had to get up to let him pass . 
'Hullo , Kiddies , he said , glancing at the bandages on the head of Cyril and the hand of Robert , 'been in the wars ? 'It's all right , said Cyril . 
'I say , what was that Atlantic place you wanted him to go to ? We couldn't help hearing you talk . 
'You talk so VERY loud , you see , said Jane soothingly . 
'Atlantis , said the visitor , 'the lost Atlantis , garden of the Hesperides . 
Great continent disappeared in the sea . 
You can read about it in Plato . 
'Thank you , said Cyril doubtfully . 
'Were there any Amulets there ? asked Anthea , made anxious by a sudden thought . 
'Hundreds , I should think . 
So HE'S been talking to you ? 'Yes , often . 
He's very kind to us . 
'Well , what he wants is a holiday you persuade him to take one . 
What he wants is a change of scene . 
But you live in the house . 
You can hammer almost incessantly . 
Just try your hands , will you ? Right . 
So long ! He went down the stairs three at a time , and Jane remarked that he was a nice man , and she thought he had little girls of his own . 
'I should like to have them to play with , she added pensively . 
The three elder ones exchanged glances . 
LET'S go to Atlantis , he said . 
'Let's go to Atlantis and take the learned gentleman with us , said Anthea 'he'll think it's a dream , afterwards , but it'll certainly be a change of scene . 
'Why not take him to nice Egypt ? asked Jane . 
'Too hot , said Cyril shortly . 
'Or Babylon , where he wants to go ? 'I've had enough of Babylon , said Robert , 'at least for the present . 
And so have the others . 
I don't know why , he added , forestalling the question on Jane's lips , 'but somehow we have . 
Squirrel , let's take off these beastly bandages and get into flannels . 
We can't go in our unders . 
'He WISHED to go to Atlantis , so he's got to go some time and he might as well go with us , said Anthea . 
with which he did not at all agree , opened his eyes to find his four young friends standing in front of him in a row . 
So he said aloud 'Thank you very much , but I have only a quarter of an hour to spare . 
Anthea held out her soft , pink hand . 
She pulled him gently to his feet . 
Jane held up the Amulet . 
'To just outside Atlantis , said Cyril , and Jane said the Name of Power . 
'You owl ! said Robert , 'it's an island . 
Outside an island's all water . 
I WON'T , said the Psammead , kicking and struggling in its bag . 
But already the Amulet had grown to a great arch . 
Cyril pushed the learned gentleman , as undoubtedly the first born , through the arch not into water , but on to a wooden floor , out of doors . 
The rings and the chains were of a metal that shone red yellow like gold . 
Everyone on the ship seemed too busy at first to notice the group of newcomers from Fitzroy Street . 
Those who seemed to be officers were shouting orders to the men . 
They stood and looked across the wide quay to the town that rose beyond it . 
What they saw was the most beautiful sight any of them had ever seen or ever dreamed of . 
The blue sea sparkled in soft sunlight little white capped waves broke softly against the marble breakwaters that guarded the shipping of a great city from the wilderness of winter winds and seas . 
The quay was of marble , white and sparkling with a veining bright as gold . 
The city was of marble , red and white . 
The learned gentleman drew a long breath . 
'Wonderful ! he said , 'wonderful ! 'I say , Mr what's your name , said Robert . 
'He means , said Anthea , with gentle politeness , 'that we never can remember your name . 
I know it's Mr De Something . 
'When I was your age I was called Jimmy , he said timidly . 
'Would you mind ? I should feel more at home in a dream like this if I Anything that made me seem more like one of you . 
'Thank you Jimmy , said Anthea with an effort . 
It seemed such a cheek to be saying Jimmy to a grown up man . 
'Jimmy , DEAR , she added , with no effort at all . 
Jimmy smiled and looked pleased . 
But now the ship was made fast , and the Captain had time to notice other things . 
He came towards them , and he was dressed in the best of all possible dresses for the seafaring life . 
'What are you doing here ? he asked rather fiercely . 
'Do you come to bless or to curse ? 'To bless , of course , said Cyril . 
'I'm sorry if it annoys you , but we're here by magic . 
We come from the land of the sun rising , he went on explanatorily . 
'I see , said the Captain no one had expected that he would . 
'I didn't notice at first , but of course I hope you're a good omen . 
And this , he pointed to the learned gentleman , 'your slave , I presume ? 'Not at all , said Anthea 'he's a very great man . 
'What , asked the Captain , fingering a rope , 'is a book ? 'A record something written , or , she added hastily , remembering the Babylonian writing , 'or engraved . 
Some sudden impulse of confidence made Jane pluck the Amulet from the neck of her frock . 
'Like this , she said . 
'The stone is of our country , he said 'and that which is engraved on it , it is like our writing , but I cannot read it . 
What is the name of your sage ? 'Ji jimmy , said Anthea hesitatingly . 
The Captain repeated , 'Ji jimmy . 
Will you land ? he added . 
'Then lead on , please , said Robert , 'though I SHOULD like to see all over your beautiful ship , and sail about in her . 
'Too loud , said the Captain . 
There was a rather anxious pause then the Captain stepped on to the quay , and the others followed him . 
'Do talk to him Jimmy , said Anthea as they went 'you can find out all sorts of things for your friend's book . 
'Please excuse me , he said earnestly . 
'If I talk I shall wake up and besides , I can't understand what he says . 
No one else could think of anything to say , so that it was in complete silence that they followed the Captain up the marble steps and through the streets of the town . 
There were streets and shops and houses and markets . 
'It's just like Babylon , whispered Jane , 'only everything's perfectly different . 
'It's a great comfort the ten Kings have been properly brought up to be kind to strangers , Anthea whispered to Cyril . 
'Yes , he said , 'no deepest dungeons here . 
'Mammoths ! murmured the learned gentleman , and stumbled over a loose stone . 
And then the people would draw back with a low murmur that sounded like a suppressed cheer . 
'Are all these houses real gold ? asked Jane . 
'The temples are covered with gold , of course , answered the Captain , 'but the houses are only oricalchum . 
It's not quite so expensive . 
The learned gentleman , now very pale , stumbled along in a dazed way , repeating 'Oricalchum oricalchum . 
'Don't be frightened , said Anthea 'we can get home in a minute , just by holding up the charm . 
Would you rather go back now ? We could easily come some other day without you . 
'Oh , no , no , he pleaded fervently 'let the dream go on . 
He stopped at the gate of a great enclosure . 
It seemed to be a sort of park , for trees showed high above its brazen wall . 
The party waited , and almost at once the Captain came back with one of the hairy elephants and begged them to mount . 
It was a glorious ride . 
The elephant at the Zoo to ride on him is also glorious , but he goes such a very little way , and then he goes back again , which is always dull . 
But this great hairy beast went on and on and on along streets and through squares and gardens . 
It was a glorious city almost everything was built of marble , red , or white , or black . 
Every now and then the party crossed a bridge . 
And now they were in a great square . 
A vast building filled up one side of it it was overlaid with gold , and had a dome of silver . 
The rest of the buildings round the square were of oricalchum . 
And it looked more splendid than you can possibly imagine , standing up bold and shining in the sunlight . 
'You would like a bath , said the Captain , as the hairy elephant went clumsily down on his knees . 
'It's customary , you know , before entering the Presence . 
We have baths for men , women , horses , and cattle . 
The High Class Baths are here . 
Our Father Poseidon gave us a spring of hot water and one of cold . 
The children had never before bathed in baths of gold . 
'It feels very splendid , said Cyril , splashing . 
'At least , of course , it's not gold it's or what's its name , said Robert . 
The bathing hall had several great pools sunk below the level of the floor one went down to them by steps . 
'I know a little of those nations , however , said he , 'and I quite agree with you . 
'Now , boys , get out of the way . 
He pushed through a little crowd of boys who were playing with dried chestnuts fastened to a string . 
'Ginger ! remarked Robert , 'they're playing conkers , just like the kids in Kentish Town Road ! They could see now that three walls surrounded the island on which they were . 
The outermost wall was of brass , the Captain told them the next , which looked like silver , was covered with tin and the innermost one was of oricalchum . 
And right in the middle was a wall of gold , with golden towers and gates . 
'Behold the Temples of Poseidon , said the Captain . 
'It is not lawful for me to enter . 
I will await your return here . 
He told them what they ought to say , and the five people from Fitzroy Street took hands and went forward . 
The golden gates slowly opened . 
'We are the children of the Sun , said Cyril , as he had been told , 'and our High Priest , at least that's what the Captain calls him . 
We have a different name for him at home . 
'What is his name ? asked a white robed man who stood in the doorway with his arms extended . 
'Ji jimmy , replied Cyril , and he hesitated as Anthea had done . 
It really did seem to be taking a great liberty with so learned a gentleman . 
'And we have come to speak with your Kings in the Temple of Poseidon does that word sound right ? he whispered anxiously . 
'Quite , said the learned gentleman . 
'It's very odd I can understand what you say to them , but not what they say to you . 
'The Queen of Babylon found that too , said Cyril 'it's part of the magic . 
'Oh , what a dream ! said the learned gentleman . 
The white robed priest had been joined by others , and all were bowing low . 
'Enter , he said , 'enter , Children of the Sun , with your High Ji jimmy . 
In an inner courtyard stood the Temple all of silver , with gold pinnacles and doors , and twenty enormous statues in bright gold of men and women . 
Also an immense pillar of the other precious yellow metal . 
They went through the doors , and the priest led them up a stair into a gallery from which they could look down on to the glorious place . 
'The ten Kings are even now choosing the bull . 
It is not lawful for me to behold , said the priest , and fell face downward on the floor outside the gallery . 
The roof was of ivory adorned with the three precious metals , and the walls were lined with the favourite oricalchum . 
At the far end of the Temple was a statue group , the like of which no one living has ever seen . 
It was of gold , and the head of the chief figure reached to the roof . 
That figure was Poseidon , the Father of the City . 
He stood in a great chariot drawn by six enormous horses , and round about it were a hundred mermaids riding on dolphins . 
The children held their breath , for the bulls looked dangerous , and the great horned heads were swinging more and more wildly . 
Anthea did not like looking at the bulls . 
But very soon the girls crept back . 
'I don't like sacrifices , Jane said . 
'It's a special sacrifice , he said 'usually it's only done on the justice days every five years and six years alternately . 
And then they drink the cup of wine with some of the bull's blood in it , and swear to judge truly . 
And they wear the sacred blue robe , and put out all the Temple fires . 
But this today is because the City's so upset by the odd noises from the sea , and the god inside the big mountain speaking with his thunder voice . 
But all that's happened so often before . 
If anything could make ME uneasy it wouldn't be THAT . 
'What would it be ? asked Jane kindly . 
'It would be the Lemmings . 
This year they haven't come . 
You know rats won't stay on a ship that's going to be wrecked . 
If anything horrible were going to happen to us , it's my belief those Lemmings would know and that may be why they've fought shy of us . 
'What do you call this country ? asked the Psammead , suddenly putting its head out of its bag . 
'Atlantis , said the priest . 
'Then I advise you to get on to the highest ground you can find . 
I remember hearing something about a flood here . 
Look here , you' it turned to Anthea 'let's get home . 
The prospect's too wet for my whiskers . 
The girls obediently went to find their brothers , who were leaning on the balcony railings . 
'Where's the learned gentleman ? asked Anthea . 
'There he is below , said the priest , who had come with them . 
'Your High Ji jimmy is with the Kings . 
The ten Kings were no longer alone . 
The learned gentleman no one had noticed how he got there stood with them on the steps of an altar , on which lay the dead body of the black bull . 
'Our town is strong against the thunders of the sea and of the sky ! 'I want to go home , whined the Psammead . 
'We can't go without HIM , said Anthea firmly . 
'Jimmy , she called , 'Jimmy ! and waved to him . 
He heard her , and began to come towards her through the crowd . 
They could see from the balcony the sea captain edging his way out from among the people . 
And his face was dead white , like paper . 
'To the hills ! he cried in a loud and terrible voice . 
And above his voice came another voice , louder , more terrible the voice of the sea . 
Across the smooth distance of the sea something huge and black rolled towards the town . 
They hid their eyes for a moment . 
Great ships were swept over the roofs of the houses and dashed down halfway up the hill among ruined gardens and broken buildings . 
The water ground brown fishing boats to powder on the golden roofs of Palaces . 
Then the wave swept back towards the sea . 
'I want to go home , cried the Psammead fiercely . 
'Oh , yes , yes ! said Jane , and the boys were ready but the learned gentleman had not come . 
Then suddenly they heard him dash up to the inner gallery , crying 'I MUST see the end of the dream . 
He rushed up the higher flight . 
They found themselves in a sort of turret roofed , but open to the air at the sides . 
The learned gentleman was leaning on the parapet , and as they rejoined him the vast wave rushed back on the town . 
This time it rose higher destroyed more . 
'Come home , cried the Psammead 'THAT'S the LAST , I know it is ! That's the last over there . 
It pointed with a claw that trembled . 
'Oh , come ! cried Jane , holding up the Amulet . 
'I WILL SEE the end of the dream , cried the learned gentleman . 
'You'll never see anything else if you do , said Cyril . 
'Oh , JIMMY ! appealed Anthea . 
'I'll NEVER bring you out again ! 'You'll never have the chance if you don't go soon , said the Psammead . 
'I WILL see the end of the dream , said the learned gentleman obstinately . 
The hills around were black with people fleeing from the villages to the mountains . 
And even as they fled thin smoke broke from the great white peak , and then a faint flash of flame . 
Then the volcano began to throw up its mysterious fiery inside parts . 
The earth trembled ashes and sulphur showered down a rain of fine pumice stone fell like snow on all the dry land . 
The elephants from the forest rushed up towards the peaks great lizards thirty yards long broke from the mountain pools and rushed down towards the sea . 
The snows melted and rushed down , first in avalanches , then in roaring torrents . 
Great rocks cast up by the volcano fell splashing in the sea miles away . 
'Oh , this is horrible ! cried Anthea . 
'Come home , come home ! 'The end of the dream , gasped the learned gentleman . 
'Hold up the Amulet , cried the Psammead suddenly . 
The place where they stood was now crowded with men and women , and the children were strained tight against the parapet . 
The turret rocked and swayed the wave had reached the golden wall . 
Jane held up the Amulet . 
'Now , cried the Psammead , 'say the word ! And as Jane said it the Psammead leaped from its bag and bit the hand of the learned gentleman . 
At the same moment the boys pushed him through the arch and all followed him . 
He turned to look back , and through the arch he saw nothing but a waste of waters , with above it the peak of the terrible mountain with fire raging from it . 
He staggered back to his chair . 
'What a ghastly dream ! he gasped . 
'Oh , you're here , my er dears . 
Can I do anything for you ? 'You've hurt your hand , said Anthea gently 'let me bind it up . 
The hand was indeed bleeding rather badly . 
The Psammead had crept back to its bag . 
All the children were very white . 
'We didn't even find the Amulet , said Anthea later still . 
'Of course you didn't it wasn't there . 
Only the stone it was made of was there . 
It fell on to a ship miles away that managed to escape and got to Egypt . 
I could have told you that . 
'I wish you had , said Anthea , and her voice was still rather shaky . 
'Why didn't you ? 'You never asked me , said the Psammead very sulkily . 
'I'm not the sort of chap to go shoving my oar in where it's not wanted . 
'Mr Ji jimmy's friend will have something worth having to put in his article now , said Cyril very much later indeed . 
'Not he , said Robert sleepily . 
'The learned Ji jimmy will think it's a dream , and it's ten to one he never tells the other chap a word about it at all . 
Robert was quite right on both points . 
And when you do see them , no matter how many other wonders you may have seen in your time , such sights are rather apt to take your breath away . 
Atlantis had certainly this effect on the breaths of Cyril , Robert , Anthea , and Jane . 
They remained in a breathless state for some days . 
The learned gentleman seemed as breathless as anyone he spent a good deal of what little breath he had in telling Anthea about a wonderful dream he had . 
'You would hardly believe , he said , 'that anyone COULD have such a detailed vision . 
But Anthea could believe it , she said , quite easily . 
He had ceased to talk about thought transference . 
He had now seen too many wonders to believe that . 
In consequence of their breathless condition none of the children suggested any new excursions through the Amulet . 
Robert voiced the mood of the others when he said that they were 'fed up' with Amulet for a bit . 
The children let it sleep . 
The danger of taking it about among strange people who might at any moment utter undesirable wishes was becoming more and more plain . 
And there are pleasant things to be done in London without any aid from Amulets or Psammeads . 
You can go to Kew by river steamer and this is the way that the children would have gone if they had gone at all . 
The children were sitting on a seat in St James's Park . 
They had been watching the pelican repulsing with careful dignity the advances of the seagulls who are always so anxious to play games with it . 
The pelican thinks , very properly , that it hasn't the figure for games , so it spends most of its time pretending that that is not the reason why it won't play . 
The breathlessness caused by Atlantis was wearing off a little . 
Cyril , who always wanted to understand all about everything , was turning things over in his mind . 
'I'm not I'm only thinking , he answered when Robert asked him what he was so grumpy about . 
'I'll tell you when I've thought it all out . 
'If it's about the Amulet I don't want to hear it , said Jane . 
'Nobody asked you to , retorted Cyril mildly , 'and I haven't finished my inside thinking about it yet . 
Let's go to Kew in the meantime . 
'I'd rather go in a steamer , said Robert and the girls laughed . 
'That's right , said Cyril , 'BE funny . 
'Well , he was , rather , said Anthea . 
'I wouldn't think , Squirrel , if it hurts you so , said Robert kindly . 
'Oh , shut up , said Cyril , 'or else talk about Kew . 
All disagreeableness was swept away in a pleasant tide of recollections , and 'Do you remember . 
? 'My hat ! remarked Cyril pensively , as the flood of reminiscence ebbed a little 'we have had some times . 
'We have that , said Robert . 
'Don't let's have any more , said Jane anxiously . 
'That's what I was thinking about , Cyril replied and just then they heard the Little Black Girl sniff . 
She was quite close to them . 
She was not really a little black girl . 
And she stood looking at the children and sniffing . 
'Oh , dear ! said Anthea , jumping up . 
'Whatever is the matter ? She put her hand on the little girl's arm . 
It was rudely shaken off . 
'You leave me be , said the little girl . 
'I ain't doing nothing to you . 
'But what is it ? Anthea asked . 
'Has someone been hurting you ? 'What's that to you ? said the little girl fiercely . 
'Come away , said Robert , pulling at Anthea's sleeve . 
'She's a nasty , rude little kid . 
'Oh , no , said Anthea . 
What is it ? she asked again . 
'Oh , YOU'RE all right , the child repeated 'YOU ain't agoin' to the Union . 
Then she opened her swollen eyes widely , stamped her foot in fury , and ran away . 
She ran no further than to the next bench , flung herself down there and began to cry without even trying not to . 
Anthea , quite at once , went to the little girl and put her arms as tight as she could round the hunched up black figure . 
'Oh , don't cry so , dear , don't , don't ! she whispered under the brim of the large sailor hat , now very crooked indeed . 
'Tell Anthea all about it Anthea'll help you . 
There , there , dear , don't cry . 
The others stood at a distance . 
One or two passers by stared curiously . 
The child was now only crying part of the time the rest of the time she seemed to be talking to Anthea . 
What can we do ? 'Let's ask the learned gentleman , said Jane brightly . 
The learned gentleman looked up from his writing with the smile that had grown much easier to him than it used to be . 
They were quite at home in his room now it really seemed to welcome them . 
Even the mummy case appeared to smile as if in its distant superior ancient Egyptian way it were rather pleased to see them than not . 
Anthea sat on the stairs with Imogen , who was nine come next November , while the others went in and explained the difficulty . 
The learned gentleman listened with grave attention . 
'It really does seem rather rough luck , Cyril concluded , 'because I've often heard about rich people who wanted children most awfully though I know I never should but they do . 
There must be somebody who'd be glad to have her . 
'Gipsies are awfully fond of children , Robert hopefully said . 
'She's quite a nice little girl really , Jane added 'she was only rude at first because we looked jolly and happy , and she wasn't . 
You understand that , don't you ? 'Yes , said he , absently fingering a little blue image from Egypt . 
'I understand that very well . 
As you say , there must be some home where she would be welcome . 
He scowled thoughtfully at the little blue image . 
Anthea outside thought the explanation was taking a very long time . 
It was close to her before she saw it . 
She picked it up and settled it in her lap . 
'What is it ? asked the black child . 
She jumped up lifting the Psammead in her skirt , and holding Imogen by the hand , rushed into the learned gentleman's room . 
'At least let's keep together , she cried . 
'All hold hands quick ! The circle was like that formed for the Mulberry Bush or Ring o' Roses . 
And Anthea was only able to take part in it by holding in her teeth the hem of her frock which , thus supported , formed a bag to hold the Psammead . 
'Is it a game ? asked the learned gentleman feebly . 
There was a moment of suspense then came that curious upside down , inside out sensation which one almost always feels when transported from one place to another by magic . 
Also there was that dizzy dimness of sight which comes on these occasions . 
Above them , instead of the dusky ceiling of the Fitzroy Street floor , was a pale blue sky . 
There were beech trees too , but there was nothing under them but their own dead red drifted leaves , and here and there a delicate green fern frond . 
And there they stood in a circle still holding hands , as though they were playing Ring o' Roses or the Mulberry Bush . 
just six people hand in hand in a wood . 
That sounds simple , but then you must remember that they did not know WHERE the wood was , and what's more , they didn't know WHEN then wood was . 
As for little Imogen , she said , 'Oh , my ! and kept her mouth very much open indeed . 
'Where are we ? Cyril asked the Psammead . 
'In Britain , said the Psammead . 
'But when ? asked Anthea anxiously . 
'About the year fifty five before the year you reckon time from , said the Psammead crossly . 
'I've been here before it's very little changed . 
'Yes , but why here ? asked Anthea . 
In Megatherium days properly brought up children didn't talk to shabby strangers in parks . 
Your thoughtless friend wanted a place where someone would be glad to have this undesirable stranger . 
And now here you are ! 'I see we are , said Anthea patiently , looking round on the tall gloom of the forest . 
'But why HERE ? Why NOW ? 'You don't suppose anyone would want a child like that in YOUR times in YOUR towns ? said the Psammead in irritated tones . 
'You've got your country into such a mess that there's no room for half your children and no one to want them . 
'That's not our doing , you know , said Anthea gently . 
'And bringing me here without any waterproof or anything , said the Psammead still more crossly , 'when everyone knows how damp and foggy Ancient Britain was . 
'Here , take my coat , said Robert , taking it off . 
Anthea spread the coat on the ground and , putting the Psammead on it , folded it round so that only the eyes and furry ears showed . 
'There , she said comfortingly . 
'Now if it does begin to look like rain , I can cover you up in a minute . 
Now what are we to do ? The others who had stopped holding hands crowded round to hear the answer to this question . 
Imogen whispered in an awed tone 'Can't the organ monkey talk neither ! I thought it was only parrots ! 'Do ? replied the Psammead . 
'I don't care what you do ! And it drew head and ears into the tweed covering of Robert's coat . 
The others looked at each other . 
'It's only a dream , said the learned gentleman hopefully 'something is sure to happen if we can prevent ourselves from waking up . 
And sure enough , something did . 
The brooding silence of the dark forest was broken by the laughter of children and the sound of voices . 
'Let's go and see , said Cyril . 
There was a sort of break in the undergrowth that was like a silly person's idea of a path . 
They went along this in Indian file , the learned gentleman leading . 
Quite soon they came to a large clearing in the forest . 
There were a number of houses huts perhaps you would have called them with a sort of mud and wood fence . 
'It's like the old Egyptian town , whispered Anthea . 
And it was , rather . 
Some children , with no clothes on at all , were playing what looked like Ring o' Roses or Mulberry Bush . 
That is to say , they were dancing round in a ring , holding hands . 
On a grassy bank several women , dressed in blue and white robes and tunics of beast skins sat watching the playing children . 
The children from Fitzroy Street stood on the fringe of the forest looking at the games . 
'None of those little girls is her own little girl , thought Anthea . 
The little black clad London child pulled at Anthea's sleeve . 
'Look , she said , 'that one there she's precious like mother mother's 'air was somethink lovely , when she 'ad time to comb it out . 
The sad eyed woman saw her . 
She stood up , her thin face lighted up with a radiance like sunrise , her long , lean arms stretched towards the London child . 
'Oh , it IS mother it IS ! cried Imogen from London , and rushed across the cleared space . 
She and her mother clung together so closely , so strongly that they stood an instant like a statue carved in stone . 
Then the women crowded round . 
'It IS my Imogen ! cried the woman . 
'Oh it is ! And she wasn't eaten by wolves . 
She's come back to me . 
Tell me , my darling , how did you escape ? Where have you been ? Who has fed and clothed you ? 'I don't know nothink , said Imogen . 
'Poor child ! whispered the women who crowded round , 'the terror of the wolves has turned her brain . 
'But you know ME ? said the fair haired woman . 
And Imogen , clinging with black clothed arms to the bare neck , answered 'Oh , yes , mother , I know YOU right 'nough . 
'What is it ? What do they say ? the learned gentleman asked anxiously . 
'You wished to come where someone wanted the child , said the Psammead . 
'The child says this is her mother . 
'And the mother ? 'You can see , said the Psammead . 
'But is she really ? Her child , I mean ? 'Who knows ? said the Psammead 'but each one fills the empty place in the other's heart . 
'Oh , said the learned gentleman , 'this is a good dream . 
I wish the child might stay in the dream . 
The Psammead blew itself out and granted the wish . 
So Imogen's future was assured . 
She had found someone to want her . 
'If only all the children that no one wants , began the learned gentleman but the woman interrupted . 
'Welcome , all ! she cried . 
'I am the Queen , and my child tells me that you have befriended her and this I well believe , looking on your faces . 
Your garb is strange , but faces I can read . 
The child is bewitched , I see that well , but in this she speaks truth . 
Is it not so ? The children said it wasn't worth mentioning . 
I wish you could have seen all the honours and kindnesses lavished on the children and the learned gentleman by those ancient Britons . 
It wasn't as grand as the entertainment at Babylon , but somehow it was more satisfying . 
'I think you children have some wonderful influence on me , said the learned gentleman . 
'I never dreamed such dreams before I knew you . 
It was when they were alone that night under the stars where the Britons had spread a heap Of dried fern for them to sleep on , that Cyril spoke . 
'Well , he said , 'we've made it all right for Imogen , and had a jolly good time . 
I vote we get home again before the fighting begins . 
'What fighting ? asked Jane sleepily . 
'Why , Julius Caesar , you little goat , replied her kind brother . 
'Don't you see that if this is the year fifty five , Julius Caesar may happen at any moment . 
'I thought you liked Caesar , said Robert . 
'So I do in the history . 
But that's different from being killed by his soldiers . 
'If we saw Caesar we might persuade him not to , said Anthea . 
'YOU persuade CAESAR , Robert laughed . 
The learned gentleman , before anyone could stop him , said , 'I only wish we could see Caesar some time . 
It was sunset , and the great man sat on a chair outside his tent gazing over the sea towards Britain everyone knew without being told that it was towards Britain . 
He waved a calm hand towards the sentinels , who sprang weapons in hand towards the newcomers . 
'Back ! he said in a voice that thrilled like music . 
'A dream ? repeated Caesar . 
'What is a dream ? 'This , said the learned gentleman . 
'Not it , said Cyril , 'it's a sort of magic . 
We come out of another time and another place . 
'And we want to ask you not to trouble about conquering Britain , said Anthea 'it's a poor little place , not worth bothering about . 
'Are you from Britain ? the General asked . 
'We're not , said Jane with angry eagerness 'we're not barbarians at all . 
'Don't talk nonsense , said Robert in a bitter undertone . 
Caesar looked at the children a moment in silence . 
Then he called a soldier and spoke with him apart . 
Then he said aloud 'You three elder children may go where you will within the camp . 
Few children are privileged to see the camp of Caesar . 
The student and the smaller girl child will remain here with me . 
Nobody liked this but when Caesar said a thing that thing was so , and there was an end to it . 
Left alone with Jane and the learned gentleman , the great Roman found it easy enough to turn them inside out . 
But it was not easy , even for him , to make head or tail of the insides of their minds when he had got at them . 
The learned gentleman insisted that the whole thing was a dream , and refused to talk much , on the ground that if he did he would wake up . 
Jane , closely questioned , was full of information about railways , electric lights , balloons , men of war , cannons , and dynamite . 
'And do they fight with swords ? asked the General . 
'Yes , swords and guns and cannons . 
Caesar wanted to know what guns were . 
'You fire them , said Jane , 'and they go bang , and people fall down dead . 
'But what are guns like ? Jane found them hard to describe . 
'But Robert has a toy one in his pocket , she said . 
So the others were recalled . 
The boys explained the pistol to Caesar very fully , and he looked at it with the greatest interest . 
It was a two shilling pistol , the one that had done such good service in the old Egyptian village . 
'I shall cause guns to be made , said Caesar , 'and you will be detained till I know whether you have spoken the truth . 
I had just decided that Britain was not worth the bother of invading . 
But what you tell me decides me that it is very much worth while . 
'But it's all nonsense , said Anthea . 
'Britain is just a savage sort of island all fogs and trees and big rivers . 
But the people are kind . 
We know a little girl there named Imogen . 
Do go straight home , dear Caesar , and let poor little Britain alone . 
'But this other girl child says said Caesar . 
'All Jane's been telling you is what it's going to be , Anthea interrupted , 'hundreds and hundreds of years from now . 
'The little one is a prophetess , eh ? said Caesar , with a whimsical look . 
'Rather young for the business , isn't she ? 'You can call her a prophetess if you like , said Cyril , 'but what Anthea says is true . 
'Very likely , said Cyril , worriedly . 
'I say , I do wish you'd give up this idea of conquering Britain . 
Guards , detain these children . 
'Quick , said Robert , 'before the guards begin detaining . 
We had enough of that in Babylon . 
Jane held up the Amulet away from the sunset , and said the word . 
The learned gentleman was pushed through and the others more quickly than ever before passed through the arch back into their own times and the quiet dusty sitting room of the learned gentleman . 
Suddenly he started , rubbed his eyes , and called his secretary . 
The young man came quickly from within the tent . 
'I have dreamed a very wonderful dream . 
Some of it I forget , but I remember enough to decide what was not before determined . 
Tomorrow the ships that have been brought round from the Ligeris shall be provisioned . 
We shall sail for this three cornered island . 
First , we will take but two legions . 
This , if what we have heard be true , should suffice . 
But if my dream be true , then a hundred legions will not suffice . 
For the dream I dreamed was the most wonderful that ever tormented the brain even of Caesar . 
And Caesar has dreamed some strange things in his time . 
'And if you hadn't told Caesar all that about how things are now , he'd never have invaded Britain , said Robert to Jane as they sat down to tea . 
'Oh , nonsense , said Anthea , pouring out 'it was all settled hundreds of years ago . 
'I don't know , said Cyril . 
This about time being only a thingummy of thought is very confusIng . 
If everything happens at the same time 'It CAN'T ! said Anthea stoutly , 'the present's the present and the past's the past . 
'Not always , said Cyril . 
'When we were in the Past the present was the future . 
Now then ! he added triumphantly . 
And Anthea could not deny it . 
'I should have liked to see more of the camp , said Robert . 
'Yes , we didn't get much for our money but Imogen is happy , that's one thing , said Anthea . 
'We left her happy in the Past . 
I've often seen about people being happy in the Past , in poetry books . 
I see what it means now . 
'It's not a bad idea , said the Psammead sleepily , putting its head out of its bag and taking it in again suddenly , 'being left in the Past . 
, found Anthea leaning her elbows on the edge of the bath , and crying steadily into it . 
'Hullo ! he said , with brotherly concern , 'what's up now ? Dinner'll be cold before you've got enough salt water for a bath . 
'Go away , said Anthea fiercely . 
'I hate you ! I hate everybody ! There was a stricken pause . 
I didn't know , said Cyril tamely . 
'Nobody ever does know anything , sobbed Anthea . 
'I didn't know you were waxy . 
I thought you'd just hurt your fingers with the tap again like you did last week , Cyril carefully explained . 
'Oh fingers ! sneered Anthea through her sniffs . 
'Here , drop it , Panther , he said uncomfortably . 
'You haven't been having a row or anything ? 'No , she said . 
'Wash your horrid hands , for goodness' sake , if that's what you came for , or go . 
Anthea was so seldom cross that when she was cross the others were always more surprised than angry . 
Cyril edged along the side of the bath and stood beside her . 
He put his hand on her arm . 
'Dry up , do , he said , rather tenderly for him . 
'There ! he said , in the tone of one administering a priceless cure for all possible sorrows . 
'Now , what's up ? 'Promise you won't laugh ? 'I don't feel laughish myself , said Cyril , dismally . 
'Well , then , said Anthea , leaning her ear against his head , 'it's Mother . 
'What's the matter with Mother ? asked Cyril , with apparent want of sympathy . 
'She was all right in her letter this morning . 
'Yes but I want her so . 
'You're not the only one , said Cyril briefly , and the brevity of his tone admitted a good deal . 
'Oh , yes , said Anthea , 'I know . 
We all want her all the time . 
But I want her now most dreadfully , awfully much . 
I never wanted anything so much . 
That Imogen child the way the ancient British Queen cuddled her up ! And Imogen wasn't me , and the Queen was Mother . 
'Cheer up , he said . 
'You know my inside thinking that I was doing ? Well , that was partly about Mother . 
We'll soon get her back . 
If you'll chuck it , like a sensible kid , and wash your face , I'll tell you about it . 
You let me get to the tap . 
You know what an odd shape your mouth gets into when you cry in earnest . 
'Look here , said Cyril , working the soap round and round between his hands in a thick slime of grey soapsuds . 
We've only just PLAYED with the Amulet so far . 
We've got to work it now WORK it for all it's worth . 
And it isn't only Mother either . 
There's Father out there all among the fighting . 
'There now , she said regretfully , 'now I shall have to wash my face . 
'You'd have had to do that anyway , said Cyril with conviction . 
'Now , my idea's this . 
You know missionaries ? 'Yes , said Anthea , who did not know a single one . 
And the savages love them for their kind generousness , and give them pearls , and shells , and ivory , and cassowaries . 
And that's the way 'Wait a sec , said Anthea , splashing . 
'I can't hear what you're saying . 
Shells and 'Shells , and things like that . 
The great thing is to get people to love you by being generous . 
And that's what we've got to do . 
Next time we go into the Past we'll regularly fit out the expedition . 
You remember how the Babylonian Queen froze on to that pocket book ? Well , we'll take things like that . 
And offer them in exchange for a sight of the Amulet . 
'A sight of it is not much good . 
But , don't you see , when we've seen it we shall know where it is , and we can go and take it in the night when everybody is asleep . 
'It wouldn't be stealing , would it ? said Anthea thoughtfully , 'because it will be such an awfully long time ago when we do it . 
Oh , there's that bell again . 
But it shook its head , and shot out its snail's eyes hopelessly . 
'I'm not allowed to play in this game , it said . 
'Of course I COULD find out in a minute where the thing was , only I mayn't . 
But I may go so far as to own that your idea of taking things with you isn't a bad one . 
And I shouldn't show them all at once . 
Take small things and conceal them craftily about your persons . 
Soon the table was littered over with things which the children thought likely to interest the Ancient Egyptians . 
Anthea brought dolls , puzzle blocks , a wooden tea service , a green leather case with Necessaire written on it in gold letters . 
Aunt Emma had once given it to Anthea , and it had then contained scissors , penknife , bodkin , stiletto , thimble , corkscrew , and glove buttoner . 
The scissors , knife , and thimble , and penknife were , of course , lost , but the other things were there and as good as new . 
Cyril contributed lead soldiers , a cannon , a catapult , a tin opener , a tie clip , and a tennis ball , and a padlock no key . 
, a penny Japanese pin tray , a rubber stamp with his father's name and address on it , and a piece of putty . 
'We can't take all this rubbish , said Robert , with some scorn . 
'We must just each choose one thing . 
The afternoon passed very agreeably in the attempt to choose from the table the four most suitable objects . 
Jane picked up the tie clip . 
'It's not much , she said . 
'I don't believe Ancient Egyptians wore ties . 
'Never mind , said Anthea . 
'I believe it's luckier not to really choose . 
'I don't want any hands in marriage , thank you . 
'Nor yet me , said Robert . 
'It's always the end of the adventures when it comes to the marriage hands . 
'ARE we ready ? said Anthea . 
'It IS Egypt we're going to , isn't it ? nice Egypt ? said Jane . 
'I won't go anywhere I don't know about like that dreadful big wavy burning mountain city , she insisted . 
Then the Psammead was coaxed into its bag . 
'I say , said Cyril suddenly , 'I'm rather sick of kings . 
And people notice you so in palaces . 
Besides the Amulet's sure to be in a Temple . 
Let's just go among the common people , and try to work ourselves up by degrees . 
We might get taken on as Temple assistants . 
'Like beadles , said Anthea , 'or vergers . 
They must have splendid chances of stealing the Temple treasures . 
'Righto ! was the general rejoinder . 
The charm was held up . 
It grew big once again , and once again the warm golden Eastern light glowed softly beyond it . 
As the children stepped through it loud and furious voices rang in their ears . 
They went suddenly from the quiet of Fitzroy Street dining room into a very angry Eastern crowd , a crowd much too angry to notice them . 
They edged through it to the wall of a house and stood there . 
The crowd was of men , women , and children . 
They were of all sorts of complexions , and pictures of them might have been coloured by any child with a shilling paint box . 
The colours that child would have used for complexions would have been yellow ochre , red ochre , light red , sepia , and indian ink . 
But their faces were painted already black eyebrows and lashes , and some red lips . 
The women wore a sort of pinafore with shoulder straps , and loose things wound round their heads and shoulders . 
The children saw all this before they could hear anything distinctly . 
But a voice sounded above the other voices , and presently it was speaking in a silence . 
'Comrades and fellow workers , it said , and it was the voice of a tall , coppery coloured man who had climbed into a chariot that had been stopped by the crowd . 
Its owner had bolted , muttering something about calling the Guards , and now the man spoke from it . 
We labour all our lives to keep them in wanton luxury . 
Let us make an end of it ! A roar of applause answered him . 
'How are you going to do it ? cried a voice . 
'You look out , cried another , 'or you'll get yourself into trouble . 
'You are tired , you are hungry , you are thirsty . 
You are poor , your wives and children are pining for food . 
The barns of the rich are full to bursting with the corn we want , the corn our labour has grown . 
Then , with a rush like that of an imprisoned torrent suddenly set free , it surged along the street towards the palace , and the children were carried with it . 
Anthea found it difficult to keep the Psammead from being squeezed very uncomfortably . 
The crowd swept through the streets of dull looking houses with few windows , very high up , across the market where people were not buying but exchanging goods . 
In a momentary pause Robert saw a basket of onions exchanged for a hair comb and five fish for a string of beads . 
The people in the market seemed better off than those in the crowd they had finer clothes , and more of them . 
They were the kind of people who , nowadays , would have lived at Brixton or Brockley . 
'Oh , the working men discontented as usual , the man answered . 
Anyone would think it mattered whether they had a little more or less to eat . 
Dregs of society ! said the date seller . 
'Scum ! said the lady . 
'And I've heard THAT before , too , said Robert . 
At that moment the voice of the crowd changed , from anger to doubt , from doubt to fear . 
There were other voices shouting they shouted defiance and menace , and they came nearer very quickly . 
There was the rattle of wheels and the pounding of hoofs . 
A voice shouted , 'Guards ! 'The Guards ! The Guards ! shouted another voice , and the crowd of workmen took up the cry . 
'The Guards ! Pharaoh's Guards ! And swaying a little once more , the crowd hung for a moment as it were balanced . 
Now they each drew a long breath and looked at the others . 
'We're well out of THAT , said Cyril . 
'Yes , said Anthea , 'but I do wish the poor men hadn't been driven back before they could get to the King . 
He might have done something for them . 
'Not if he was the one in the Bible he wouldn't , said Jane . 
'He had a hard heart . 
'Ah , that was the Moses one , Anthea explained . 
'The Joseph one was quite different . 
I should like to see Pharaoh's house . 
I wonder whether it's like the Egyptian Court in the Crystal Palace . 
'I thought we decided to try to get taken on in a Temple , said Cyril in injured tones . 
'Yes , but we've got to know someone first . 
Couldn't we make friends with a Temple doorkeeper we might give him the padlock or something . 
I wonder which are temples and which are palaces , Robert added , glancing across the market place to where an enormous gateway with huge side buildings towered towards the sky . 
To right and left of it were other buildings only a little less magnificent . 
He was shaved clean from head to foot , and on his feet were light papyrus sandals . 
He was clothed in a linen tunic of white , embroidered heavily in colours . 
He was gay with anklets , bracelets , and armlets of gold , richly inlaid . 
But among the amulets the children could see none like theirs . 
'It doesn't matter which Temple , said Cyril frankly . 
'Tell me your mission , said the young man . 
'I am a divine father of the Temple of Amen Ra and perhaps I can help you . 
'Well , said Cyril , 'we've come from the great Empire on which the sun never sets . 
'I thought somehow that you'd come from some odd , out of the way spot , said the priest with courtesy . 
'And we've seen a good many palaces . 
We thought we should like to see a Temple , for a change , said Robert . 
The Psammead stirred uneasily in its embroidered bag . 
'Have you brought gifts to the Temple ? asked the priest cautiously . 
'We HAVE got some gifts , said Cyril with equal caution . 
'You see there's magic mixed up in it . 
So we can't tell you everything . 
But we don't want to give our gifts for nothing . 
'Beware how you insult the god , said the priest sternly . 
'I also can do magic . 
'Pooh ! said Cyril stoutly , 'that's nothing . 
I can make FIRE itself ! 'I should jolly well like to see you do it , said the priest unbelievingly . 
'Well , you shall , said Cyril , 'nothing easier . 
Just stand close round me . 
'Do you need no preparation no fasting , no incantations ? The priest's tone was incredulous . 
'The incantation's quite short , said Cyril , taking the hint 'and as for fasting , it's not needed in MY sort of magic . 
He stood up , shielding the flame with one hand . 
'See ? he said , with modest pride . 
'Here , take it into your hand . 
'No , thank you , said the priest , swiftly backing . 
'Can you do that again ? 'Yes . 
'Then come with me to the great double house of Pharaoh . 
He loves good magic , and he will raise you to honour and glory . 
There's no need of secrets between initiates , he went on confidentially . 
'The fact is , I am out of favour at present owing to a little matter of failure of prophecy . 
I told him a beautiful princess would be sent to him from Syria , and , lo ! a woman thirty years old arrived . 
But she WAS a beautiful woman not so long ago . 
Time is only a mode of thought , you know . 
The children thrilled to the familiar words . 
'So you know that too , do you ? said Cyril . 
'It is part of the mystery of all magic , is it not ? said the priest . 
'Now if I bring you to Pharaoh the little unpleasantness I spoke of will be forgotten . 
And I will ask Pharaoh , the Great House , Son of the Sun , and Lord of the South and North , to decree that you shall lodge in the Temple . 
Then you can have a good look round , and teach me your magic . 
And I will teach you mine . 
This idea seemed good at least it was better than any other which at that moment occurred to anybody , so they followed the priest through the city . 
The streets were very narrow and dirty . 
The best houses , the priest explained , were built within walls twenty to twenty five feet high , and such windows as showed in the walls were very high up . 
The tops of palm trees showed above the walls . 
The poor people's houses were little square huts with a door and two windows , and smoke coming out of a hole in the back . 
'The poor Egyptians haven't improved so very much in their building since the first time we came to Egypt , whispered Cyril to Anthea . 
The huts were roofed with palm branches , and everywhere there were chickens , and goats , and little naked children kicking about in the yellow dust . 
On one roof was a goat , who had climbed up and was eating the dry palm leaves with snorts and head tossings of delight . 
Over every house door was some sort of figure or shape . 
'Amulets , the priest explained , 'to keep off the evil eye . 
'I don't think much of your nice Egypt , Robert whispered to Jane 'it's simply not a patch on Babylon . 
'Ah , you wait till you see the palace , Jane whispered back . 
The palace was indeed much more magnificent than anything they had yet seen that day , though it would have made but a poor show beside that of the Babylonian King . 
They came to it through a great square pillared doorway of sandstone that stood in a high brick wall . 
The shut doors were of massive cedar , with bronze hinges , and were studded with bronze nails . 
At the side was a little door and a wicket gate , and through this the priest led the children . 
He seemed to know a word that made the sentries make way for him . 
'The guard chamber , the store houses , the queen's house , said the priest , pointing them out . 
They passed through open courtyards , paved with flat stones , and the priest whispered to a guard at a great inner gate . 
'We are fortunate , he said to the children , 'Pharaoh is even now in the Court of Honour . 
Now , don't forget to be overcome with respect and admiration . 
It won't do any harm if you fall flat on your faces . 
And whatever you do , don't speak until you're spoken to . 
'There used to be that rule in our country , said Robert , 'when my father was a little boy . 
The children heard several promises of the utmost richness , and wondered whether they would ever be kept . 
All round the hall were pillars of painted wood . 
The roof was of cedar , gorgeously inlaid . 
He sat there very splendid , his red and white double crown on his head , and his sceptre in his hand . 
The throne had a canopy of wood and wooden pillars painted in bright colours . 
On a low , broad bench that ran all round the hall sat the friends , relatives , and courtiers of the King , leaning on richly covered cushions . 
The priest led the children up the steps till they all stood before the throne and then , suddenly , he fell on his face with hands outstretched . 
The others did the same , Anthea falling very carefully because of the Psammead . 
'Raise them , said the voice of Pharaoh , 'that they may speak to me . 
The officers of the King's household raised them . 
They know a magic not known to the Egyptians . 
And they come with gifts in their hands as tribute to Pharaoh , in whose heart is the wisdom of the gods , and on his lips their truth . 
'But it's not tribute all the same , Cyril muttered . 
'England doesn't pay tribute ! Pharaoh examined all the things with great interest when the chief of the household had taken them up to him . 
'Deliver them to the Keeper of the Treasury , he said to one near him . 
And to the children he said 'A small tribute , truly , but strange , and not without worth . 
And the magic , O Rekh mara ? 'These unworthy sons of a conquered nation . 
'Nothing of the kind ! Cyril whispered angrily . 
of a vile and conquered nation , can make fire to spring from dry wood in the sight of all . 
'I should jolly well like to see them do it , said Pharaoh , just as the priest had done . 
So Cyril , without more ado , did it . 
'Do more magic , said the King , with simple appreciation . 
If the people had what they wanted , he could do more . 
'A rude spoken girl , said Pharaoh . 
'But give the dogs what they want , he said , without turning his head . 
'Let them have their rest and their extra rations . 
There are plenty of slaves to work . 
A richly dressed official hurried out . 
'You will be the idol of the people , Rekh mara whispered joyously 'the Temple of Amen will not contain their offerings . 
Cyril struck another match , and all the court was overwhelmed with delight and wonder . 
And when Cyril took the candle from his pocket and lighted it with the match , and then held the burning candle up before the King the enthusiasm knew no bounds . 
The priest went with lightning swiftness . 
'And what , said the King suddenly , 'is it that moves in that sack ? Show me , oh strangers . 
There was nothing for it but to show the Psammead . 
'Seize it , said Pharaoh carelessly . 
It will be a nice little novelty for my wild beast collection . 
'Oh , DO be careful ! cried Anthea . 
'At least keep it dry ! Keep it in its sacred house ! She held up the embroidered bag . 
'It's a magic creature , cried Robert 'it's simply priceless ! 'You've no right to take it away , cried Jane incautiously . 
'It's a shame , a barefaced robbery , that's what it is ! There was an awful silence . 
'Take the sacred house of the beast from them , he said , 'and imprison all . 
Tonight after supper it may be our pleasure to see more magic . 
Guard them well , and do not torture them yet ! 'Oh , dear ! sobbed Jane , as they were led away . 
'I knew exactly what it would be ! Oh , I wish you hadn't ! 'Shut up , silly , said Cyril . 
'You know you WOULD come to Egypt . 
It was your own idea entirely . 
That , as Anthea said , was one comfort . 
There were paintings on the wall that at any other time would have been most interesting . 
And a sort of low couch , and chairs . 
When they were alone Jane breathed a sigh of relief . 
'Now we can get home all right , she said . 
'And leave the Psammead ? said Anthea reproachfully . 
I've got an idea , said Cyril . 
He pondered for a few moments . 
Then he began hammering on the heavy cedar door . 
It opened , and a guard put in his head . 
'Stop that row , he said sternly , 'or 'Look here , Cyril interrupted , 'it's very dull for you isn't it ? just doing nothing but guard us . 
Wouldn't you like to see some magic ? We're not too proud to do it for you . 
Wouldn't you like to see it ? 'I don't mind if I do , said the guard . 
'Well then , you get us that monkey of ours that was taken away , and we'll show you . 
'How do I know you're not making game of me ? asked the soldier . 
'Shouldn't wonder if you only wanted to get the creature so as to set it on me . 
I daresay its teeth and claws are poisonous . 
'Well , look here , said Robert . 
'If you can do that you can do anything , said the soldier , and he went out and barred the door . 
Then , of course , they held up the Amulet . 
'Well ! said the soldier when he came in . 
'I really am ! 'We can do much more wonderful things than that oh , ever so much , said Anthea persuasively , 'if we only have our monkey . 
And here's twopence for yourself . 
The soldier looked at the twopence . 
'What's this ? he said . 
Robert explained how much simpler it was to pay money for things than to exchange them as the people were doing in the market . 
Later on the soldier gave the coins to his captain , who , later still , showed them to Pharaoh , who of course kept them and was much struck with the idea . 
That was really how coins first came to be used in Egypt . 
You will not believe this , I daresay , but really , if you believe the rest of the story , I don't see why you shouldn't believe this as well . 
He'll keep to his word right enough . 
'Then THAT'S all right , said Robert and Anthea said softly and coaxingly 'Ah , DO get us the monkey , and then you'll see some lovely magic . 
Do there's a nice , kind soldier . 
'Do you mean , said Robert , 'that we're going off without even TRYING for the other half of the Amulet ? 'I really think we'd better , said Anthea tremulously . 
'Of course the other half of the Amulet's here somewhere or our half wouldn't have brought us here . 
I do wish we could find it . 
It is a pity we don't know any REAL magic . 
Then we could find out . 
I do wonder where it is exactly . 
If they had only known it , something very like the other half of the Amulet was very near them . 
It hung round the neck of someone , and that someone was watching them through a chink , high up in the wall , specially devised for watching people who were imprisoned . 
But they did not know . 
There was nearly an hour of anxious waiting . 
They tried to take an interest in the picture on the wall , a picture of harpers playing very odd harps and women dancing at a feast . 
They examined the painted plaster floor , and the chairs were of white painted wood with coloured stripes at intervals . 
But the time went slowly , and everyone had time to think of how Pharaoh had said , 'Don't torture them YET . 
'If the worst comes to the worst , said Cyril , 'we must just bunk , and leave the Psammead . 
I believe it can take care of itself well enough . 
They won't kill it or hurt it when they find it can speak and give wishes . 
They'll build it a temple , I shouldn't wonder . 
'I couldn't bear to go without it , said Anthea , 'and Pharaoh said After supper , that won't be just yet . 
And the soldier WAS curious . 
I'm sure we're all right for the present . 
All the same , the sounds of the door being unbarred seemed one of the prettiest sounds possible . 
'Suppose he hasn't got the Psammead ? whispered Jane . 
'Here's its fancy overcoat , said the soldier , holding out the bag , into which the Psammead immediately crept . 
'Now , said Cyril , 'what would you like us to do ? Anything you'd like us to get for you ? 'Any little trick you like , said the soldier . 
'If you can get a strange flower blooming in an earthenware vase you can get anything , I suppose , he said . 
'I just wish I'd got two men's loads of jewels from the King's treasury . 
That's what I've always wished for . 
At the word 'WISH' the children knew that the Psammead would attend to THAT bit of magic . 
It did , and the floor was littered with a spreading heap of gold and precious stones . 
'Any other little trick ? asked Cyril loftily . 
'Shall we become invisible ? Vanish ? 'Yes , if you like , said the soldier 'but not through the door , you don't . 
He closed it carefully and set his broad Egyptian back against it . 
'No ! no ! cried a voice high up among the tops of the tall wooden pillars that stood against the wall . 
There was a sound of someone moving above . 
The soldier was as much surprised as anybody . 
'That's magic , if you like , he said . 
And then Jane held up the Amulet , uttering the word of Power . 
The children went through the arch with a quickness born of long practice . 
But Jane stayed in the middle of the arch and looked back . 
The others , standing on the dining room carpet in Fitzroy Street , turned and saw her still in the arch . 
'Someone's holding her , cried Cyril . 
But they pulled at Jane's hands just to see if she would come , and , of course , she did come . 
Then , as usual , the arch was little again and there they all were . 
'Oh , I do wish you hadn't ! Jane said crossly . 
The priest had come in and he was kicking the soldier , and telling him he'd done it now , and they must take the jewels and flee for their lives . 
'And did they ? 'I don't know . 
You interfered , said Jane ungratefully . 
'I SHOULD have liked to see the last of it . 
As a matter of fact , none of them had seen the last of it if by 'it' Jane meant the adventure of the Priest and the Soldier . 
CHAPTER THE SORRY PRESENT AND THE EXPELLED LITTLE BOY 'Look here , said Cyril , sitting on the dining table and swinging his legs 'I really have got it . 
'Got what ? was the not unnatural rejoinder of the others . 
Cyril was making a boat with a penknife and a piece of wood , and the girls were making warm frocks for their dolls , for the weather was growing chilly . 
'Why , don't you see ? It's really not any good our going into the Past looking for that Amulet . 
The Past's as full of different times as as the sea is of sand . 
We're simply bound to hit upon the wrong time . 
We might spend our lives looking for the Amulet and never see a sight of it . 
Why , it's the end of September already . 
'Oh , BOTHER ! Old Nurse had come in with the tray of knives , forks , and glasses , and was getting the tablecloth and table napkins out of the chiffonier drawer . 
'It's always meal times just when you come to anything interesting . 
'And a nice interesting handful YOU'D be , Master Cyril , said old Nurse , 'if I wasn't to bring your meals up to time . 
Don't you begin grumbling now , fear you get something to grumble AT . 
'I wasn't grumbling , said Cyril quite untruly 'but it does always happen like that . 
'You deserve to HAVE something happen , said old Nurse . 
'Slave , slave , slave for you day and night , and never a word of thanks . 
'Why , you do everything beautifully , said Anthea . 
'It's the first time any of you's troubled to say so , anyhow , said Nurse shortly . 
'What's the use of SAYING ? inquired Robert . 
'We EAT our meals fast enough , and almost always two helps . 
THAT ought to show you ! 'Ah ! said old Nurse , going round the table and putting the knives and forks in their places 'you're a man all over , Master Robert . 
And yet , when he lay a dying , his last words to me was , Maria , you was always a good cook ! She ended with a trembling voice . 
'And so you are , cried Anthea , and she and Jane instantly hugged her . 
When she had gone out of the room Anthea said 'I know exactly how she feels . 
Now , look here ! Let's do a penance to show we're sorry we didn't think about telling her before what nice cooking she does , and what a dear she is . 
'Penances are silly , said Robert . 
'Not if the penance is something to please someone else . 
I didn't mean old peas and hair shirts and sleeping on the stones . 
I mean we'll make her a sorry present , explained Anthea . 
'Look here ! I vote Cyril doesn't tell us his idea until we've done something for old Nurse . 
It's worse for us than him , she added hastily , 'because he knows what it is and we don't . 
Do you all agree ? The others would have been ashamed not to agree , so they did . 
Then at the plumber's shop , that has tubes and pipes and taps and gas fittings in the window , they bought a pane of glass the same size as the cardboard . 
While they were out the girls had floated four photographs of the four children off their cards in hot water . 
These were now stuck in a row along the top of the cardboard . 
Cyril put the glue to melt in a jampot , and put the jampot in a saucepan and saucepan on the fire , while Robert painted a wreath of poppies round the photographs . 
He painted rather well and very quickly , and poppies are easy to do if you've once been shown how . 
Then Anthea drew some printed letters and Jane coloured them . 
The words were 'With all our loves to shew We like the thigs to eat . 
Of course everyone saw when too late that there were not enough letters in 'things' , so the missing 'n' was put in . 
It was impossible , of course , to do the whole thing over again for just one letter . 
'There ! said Anthea , placing it carefully , face up , under the sofa . 
'It'll be hours before the glue's dry . 
Now , Squirrel , fire ahead ! 'Well , then , said Cyril in a great hurry , rubbing at his gluey hands with his pocket handkerchief . 
'What I mean to say is this . 
There was a long pause . 
'Well , said Robert at last , 'WHAT is it that you mean to say ? 'It's like this , said Cyril , and again stopped short . 
'Like WHAT ? asked Jane . 
'How can I tell you if you will all keep on interrupting ? said Cyril sharply . 
So no one said any more , and with wrinkled frowns he arranged his ideas . 
'Look here , he said , 'what I really mean is we can remember now what we did when we went to look for the Amulet . 
And if we'd found it we should remember that too . 
'Only , you see we haven't . 
'But in the future we shall have . 
'Shall we , though ? said Jane . 
'Yes unless we've been made fools of by the Psammead . 
So then , where we want to go to is where we shall remember about where we did find it . 
'I see , said Robert , but he didn't . 
I don't , said Anthea , who did , very nearly . 
'Say it again , Squirrel , and very slowly . 
'If , said Cyril , very slowly indeed , 'we go into the future after we've found the Amulet 'But we've got to find it first , said Jane . 
'There will be a future , said Cyril , driven to greater clearness by the blank faces of the other three , 'there will be a time AFTER we've found it . 
Let's go into THAT time and then we shall remember HOW we found it . 
And then we can go back and do the finding really . 
'I see , said Robert , and this time he did , and I hope YOU do . 
'Oh , Squirrel , how clever of you ! 'But will the Amulet work both ways ? inquired Robert . 
'It ought to , said Cyril , 'if time's only a thingummy of whatsitsname . 
'Let's put on our best things , then , urged Jane . 
'You know what people say about progress and the world growing better and brighter . 
I expect people will be awfully smart in the future . 
'All right , said Anthea , 'we should have to wash anyway , I'm all thick with glue . 
When everyone was clean and dressed , the charm was held up . 
'We want to go into the future and see the Amulet after we've found it , said Cyril , and Jane said the word of Power . 
They walked through the big arch of the charm straight into the British Museum . 
'Oh , glorious ! cried Robert . 
'Here it is ! 'Yes , said Cyril , very gloomily , 'here it is . 
But we can't get it out . 
Nor did any of the others ! 'But WHY can't we ? said Jane . 
'Oh , I don't know , Cyril's tone was impatient , 'some silly old enchanted rule I suppose . 
I wish people would teach you magic at school like they do sums or instead of . 
It would be some use having an Amulet then . 
'I wonder how far we are in the future , said Anthea the Museum looks just the same , only lighter and brighter , somehow . 
'Let's go back and try the Past again , said Robert . 
'Perhaps the Museum people could tell us how we got it , said Anthea with sudden hope . 
'Oh , they've got a new uniform , how pretty ! said Jane . 
When they asked him their question he showed them a label on the case . 
It said , 'From the collection of . 
'THAT'S not much good , said Cyril , 'thank you . 
'How is it you're not at school ? asked the kind man in blue . 
'Not expelled for long I hope ? 'We're not expelled at all , said Cyril rather warmly . 
'Well , I shouldn't do it again , if I were you , said the man , and they could see he did not believe them . 
There is no company so little pleasing as that of people who do not believe you . 
'Thank you for showing us the label , said Cyril . 
As they came through the doors of the Museum they blinked at the sudden glory of sunlight and blue sky . 
The houses opposite the Museum were gone . 
There were comfortable seats all about , and arbours covered with roses , and long , trellised walks , also rose covered . 
A good many people were sitting on the seats , and on the grass babies were rolling and kicking and playing with very little on indeed . 
Men , as well as women , seemed to be in charge of the babies and were playing with them . 
'It's like a lovely picture , said Anthea , and it was . 
For the people's clothes were of bright , soft colours and all beautifully and very simply made . 
No one seemed to have any hats or bonnets , but there were a great many Japanese looking sunshades . 
And among the trees were hung lamps of coloured glass . 
'I expect they light those in the evening , said Jane . 
The children , in their turn , looked I hope they did not stare at the faces of these people in the beautiful soft clothes . 
Those faces were worth looking at . 
Not that they were all handsome , though even in the matter of handsomeness they had the advantage of any set of people the children had ever seen . 
But it was the expression of their faces that made them worth looking at . 
The children could not tell at first what it was . 
'I know , said Anthea suddenly . 
'They're not worried that's what it is . 
It was here , in a deep , shadowed cleft between tall cypresses , that they found the expelled little boy . 
He was lying face downward on the mossy turf , and the peculiar shaking of his shoulders was a thing they had seen , more than once , in each other . 
So Anthea kneeled down by him and said 'What's the matter ? 'I'm expelled from school , said the boy between his sobs . 
People are not expelled for light offences . 
'You won't talk to me any more now you know that , he added without looking up . 
'Was that all ? asked Anthea . 
'It's about enough , said the child 'and I'm expelled for the whole day ! 'I don't quite understand , said Anthea , gently . 
The boy lifted his face , rolled over , and sat up . 
'Why , whoever on earth are you ? he said . 
'We're strangers from a far country , said Anthea . 
'In our country it's not a crime to leave a bit of paper about . 
'It is here , said the child . 
'If grown ups do it they're fined . 
When we do it we're expelled for the whole day . 
'Well , but , said Robert , 'that just means a day' s holiday . 
'You MUST come from a long way off , said the little boy . 
'A holiday's when you all have play and treats and jolliness , all of you together . 
On your expelled days no one'll speak to you . 
Everyone sees you're an Expelleder or you'd be in school . 
'Suppose you were ill ? 'Nobody is hardly . 
If they are , of course they wear the badge , and everyone is kind to you . 
I know a boy that stole his sister's illness badge and wore it when he was expelled for a day . 
HE got expelled for a week for that . 
It must be awful not to go to school for a week . 
'Do you LIKE school , then ? asked Robert incredulously . 
It's the loveliest place there is . 
I chose railways for my special subject this year , there are such splendid models and things , and now I shall be all behind because of that torn up paper . 
'You choose your own subject ? asked Cyril . 
Where DID you come from ? Don't you know ANYTHING ? 'No , said Jane definitely 'so you'd better tell us . 
'Well , on Midsummer Day school breaks up and everything's decorated with flowers , and you choose your special subject for next year . 
Of course you have to stick to it for a year at least . 
Then there are all your other subjects , of course , reading , and painting , and the rules of Citizenship . 
'Good gracious ! said Anthea . 
'Look here , said the child , jumping up , 'it's nearly four . 
The expelledness only lasts till then . 
Mother will tell you all about everything . 
'Will your mother like you taking home strange children ? asked Anthea . 
'I don't understand , said the child , settling his leather belt over his honey coloured smock and stepping out with hard little bare feet . 
The streets were wide and hard and very clean . 
There were no horses , but a sort of motor carriage that made no noise . 
The Thames flowed between green banks , and there were trees at the edge , and people sat under them , fishing , for the stream was clear as crystal . 
Everywhere there were green trees and there was no smoke . 
The houses were set in what seemed like one green garden . 
The little boy brought them to a house , and at the window was a good , bright mother face . 
The little boy rushed in , and through the window they could see him hugging his mother , then his eager lips moving and his quick hands pointing . 
A lady in soft green clothes came out , spoke kindly to them , and took them into the oddest house they had ever seen . 
I can't describe that house I haven't the time . 
And I haven't heart either , when I think how different it was from our houses . 
The lady took them all over it . 
The oddest thing of all was the big room in the middle . 
It had padded walls and a soft , thick carpet , and all the chairs and tables were padded . 
There wasn't a single thing in it that anyone could hurt itself with . 
'What ever's this for ? lunatics ? asked Cyril . 
The lady looked very shocked . 
'No ! It's for the children , of course , she said . 
'Don't tell me that in your country there are no children's rooms . 
'There are nurseries , said Anthea doubtfully , 'but the furniture's all cornery and hard , like other rooms . 
'But there's no fireplace , said Anthea . 
'Hot air pipes , of course , said the lady . 
'Why , how could you have a fire in a nursery ? A child might get burned . 
'In our country , said Robert suddenly , 'more than , children are burned to death every year . 
Father told me , he added , as if apologizing for this piece of information , 'once when I'd been playing with fire . 
The lady turned quite pale . 
'What a frightful place you must live in ! she said . 
'What's all the furniture padded for ? Anthea asked , hastily turning the subject . 
'Why , you couldn't have little tots of two or three running about in rooms where the things were hard and sharp ! They might hurt themselves . 
Robert fingered the scar on his forehead where he had hit it against the nursery fender when he was little . 
'But does everyone have rooms like this , poor people and all ? asked Anthea . 
'There's a room like this wherever there's a child , of course , said the lady . 
'How refreshingly ignorant you are ! no , I don't mean ignorant , my dear . 
Of course , you're awfully well up in ancient History . 
But I see you haven't done your Duties of Citizenship Course yet . 
'But beggars , and people like that ? persisted Anthea 'and tramps and people who haven't any homes ? 'People who haven't any homes ? repeated the lady . 
'I really DON'T understand what you're talking about . 
'It's all different in our country , said Cyril carefully and I have read it used to be different in London . 
'Why , all that was in the dark ages ! My husband can tell you more about it than I can . 
He took Ancient History as one of his special subjects . 
'I haven't seen any working people , said Anthea . 
'Why , we're all working people , said the lady 'at least my husband's a carpenter . 
'Good gracious ! said Anthea 'but you're a lady ! 'Ah , said the lady , 'that quaint old word ! Well , my husband WILL enjoy a talk with you . 
In the dark ages everyone was allowed to have a smoky chimney , and those nasty horses all over the streets , and all sorts of rubbish thrown into the Thames . 
And , of course , the sufferings of the people will hardly bear thinking of . 
It's very learned of you to know it all . 
Did you make Ancient History your special subject ? 'Not exactly , said Cyril , rather uneasily . 
There's a quite simple little thing they teach the tiny children . 
? 'I must not steal and I must learn , Nothing is mine that I do not earn . 
I must try in work and play To make things beautiful every day . 
I must be kind to everyone , And never let cruel things be done . 
'That's very easy , said Jane . 
'That's only the very beginning , of course , said the lady 'there are heaps more rhymes . 
'And things to eat reminds me are you hungry ? Wells , run and get a tray of nice things . 
'Why do you call him Wells ? asked Robert , as the boy ran off . 
Up to then people had always tried to tinker up what they'd got . 
We've got a great many of the things he thought of . 
Then Wells means springs of clear water . 
It's a nice name , don't you think ? Here Wells returned with strawberries and cakes and lemonade on a tray , and everybody ate and enjoyed . 
'Now , Wells , said the lady , 'run off or you'll be late and not meet your Daddy . 
Wells kissed her , waved to the others , and went . 
'Look here , said Anthea suddenly , 'would you like to come to OUR country , and see what it's like ? It wouldn't take you a minute . 
But Jane held up the charm and said the word . 
'What a splendid conjuring trick ! cried the lady , enchanted with the beautiful , growing arch . 
'Go through , said Anthea . 
The lady went , laughing . 
But she did not laugh when she found herself , suddenly , in the dining room at Fitzroy Street . 
'Oh , what a HORRIBLE trick ! she cried . 
'What a hateful , dark , ugly place ! She ran to the window and looked out . 
'Oh , look at their faces , their horrible faces ! she cried . 
'What's the matter with them all ? 'They're poor people , that's all , said Robert . 
'But it's NOT all ! They're ill , they're unhappy , they're wicked ! Oh , do stop it , there's dear children . 
It's very , very clever . 
Some sort of magic lantern trick , I suppose , like I've read of . 
Oh ! their poor , tired , miserable , wicked faces ! The tears were in her eyes . 
Then 'I'm glad we went , said Anthea , with a deep breath . 
'I'll never throw paper about again as long as I live , said Robert . 
'Mother always told us not to , said Jane . 
'I would like to take up the Duties of Citizenship for a special subject , said Cyril . 
'I wonder if Father could put me through it . 
I shall ask him when he comes home . 
'If we'd found the Amulet , Father could be home NOW , said Anthea , 'and Mother and The Lamb . 
'Let's go into the future AGAIN , suggested Jane brightly . 
'Perhaps we could remember if it wasn't such an awful way off . 
This time they said , 'The future , where the Amulet is , not so far away . 
And they went through the familiar arch into a large , light room with three windows . 
Facing them was the familiar mummy case . 
And at a table by the window sat the learned gentleman . 
They knew him at once , though his hair was white . 
He was one of the faces that do not change with age . 
In his hand was the Amulet complete and perfect . 
He rubbed his other hand across his forehead in the way they were so used to . 
The room had many more books than the Fitzroy Street room , and far more curious and wonderful Assyrian and Egyptian objects . 
'The most wonderful dreams I ever had had you in them . 
'But where did we get it ? Cyril asked eagerly . 
'Ah , you never would tell me that , he said , 'You always had your little mysteries . 
You dear children ! What a difference you made to that old Bloomsbury house ! I wish I could dream you oftener . 
Now you're grown up you're not like you used to be . 
'Grown up ? said Anthea . 
The learned gentleman pointed to a frame with four photographs in it . 
'There you are , he said . 
The children saw four grown up people's portraits two ladies , two gentlemen and looked on them with loathing . 
'Shall we grow up like THAT ? whispered Jane . 
'How perfectly horrid ! 'If we're ever like that , we sha'n't know it's horrid , I expect , Anthea with some insight whispered back . 
'You see , you get used to yourself while you're changing . 
It's it's being so sudden makes it seem so frightful now . 
The learned gentleman was looking at them with wistful kindness . 
'Don't let me undream you just yet , he said . 
'Do you remember WHEN we gave you that Amulet ? Cyril asked suddenly . 
'You know , or you would if you weren't a dream , that it was on the rd December , . 
I shall never forget THAT day . 
'Thank you , said Cyril , earnestly 'oh , thank you very much . 
This is a beautiful place . 
Do you know I can hardly believe you're just a dream , you do look so exactly real . 
'There was that , said Robert . 
'Ah , I don't mean your pretty little childish mysteries about where you got it . 
But about the thing itself . 
'Yes , said Anthea , 'it would . 
And they can't upset my theories' he rubbed his thin hands and laughed triumphantly 'they can't , though they've tried . 
Theories , they call them , but they're more like I don't know more like memories . 
I KNOW I'm right about the secret rites of the Temple of Amen . 
'I'm so glad you're rich , said Anthea . 
'You weren't , you know , at Fitzroy Street . 
'Indeed I wasn't , said he , 'but I am now . 
'I'm so glad , said Anthea , and kissed him . 
'THAT didn't feel like a dream , he said , and his voice trembled . 
'It isn't exactly a dream , said Anthea softly , 'it's all part of the Amulet it's a sort of extra special , real dream , dear Jimmy . 
'Ah , said he , 'when you call me that , I know I'm dreaming . 
My little sister I dream of her sometimes . 
But it's not real like this . 
Do you remember the day I dreamed you brought me the Babylonish ring ? 'We remember it all , said Robert . 
'Did you leave Fitzroy Street because you were too rich for it ? 'Oh , no ! he said reproachfully . 
'You know I should never have done such a thing as that . 
Of course , I left when your old Nurse died and what's the matter ! 'Old Nurse DEAD ? said Anthea . 
'Oh , NO ! 'Yes , yes , it's the common lot . 
It's a long time ago now . 
Jane held up the Amulet in a hand that twittered . 
'Come ! she cried , 'oh , come home ! She may be dead before we get there , and then we can't give it to her . 
Oh , come ! 'Ah , don't let the dream end now ! pleaded the learned gentleman . 
'It must , said Anthea firmly , and kissed him again . 
'When it comes to people dying , said Robert , 'good bye ! I'm so glad you're rich and famous and happy . 
'DO come ! cried Jane , stamping in her agony of impatience . 
Old Nurse brought in tea almost as soon as they were back in Fitzroy Street . 
As she came in with the tray , the girls rushed at her and nearly upset her and it . 
Only don't ! She put the tray down and hugged the girls in turn . 
The boys thumped her on the back with heartfelt affection . 
'I'm as well as ever I was in my life , she said . 
'What nonsense about dying ! You've been a sitting too long in the dusk , that's what it is . 
Leave go of me , while I light the gas . 
The yellow light illuminated four pale faces . 
'We do love you so , Anthea went on , 'and we've made you a picture to show you how we love you . 
Get it out , Squirrel . 
The glazed testimonial was dragged out from under the sofa and displayed . 
'The glue's not dry yet , said Cyril , 'look out ! 'What a beauty ! cried old Nurse . 
'Well , I never ! And your pictures and the beautiful writing and all . 
Well , I always did say your hearts was in the right place , if a bit careless at times . 
Well ! I never did ! I don't know as I was ever pleased better in my life . 
She hugged them all , one after the other . 
And the boys did not mind it , somehow , that day . 
'How is it we can remember all about the future , NOW ? Anthea woke the Psammead with laborious gentleness to put the question . 
'But the FUTURE hasn't happened yet , Anthea persisted , 'and we remember that all right . 
'Oh , that isn't what's happened , my good child , said the Psammead , rather crossly , 'that's prophetic vision . 
And you remember dreams , don't you ? So why not visions ? You never do seem to understand the simplest thing . 
It went to sand again at once . 
'Not always they don't , said Cyril , 'it has to be crimson lake and Prussian blue . 
If you mix Vermilion and Indigo you get the most loathsome slate colour . 
'Sepia's the nastiest colour in the box , I think , said Jane , sucking her brush . 
'Sepia , said Cyril instructively , 'is made out of beastly cuttlefish . 
'Purple's made out of a fish , as well as out of red and blue , said Robert . 
'Tyrian purple was , I know . 
'Out of lobsters ? said Jane dreamily . 
'They're red when they're boiled , and blue when they aren't . 
If you mixed live and dead lobsters you'd get Tyrian purple . 
I shouldn't like to mix anything with a live lobster , said Anthea , shuddering . 
'Well , there aren't any other red and blue fish , said Jane 'you'd have to . 
'I'd rather not have the purple , said Anthea . 
'The Tyrian purple wasn't that colour when it came out of the fish , nor yet afterwards , it wasn't , said Robert 'it was scarlet really , and Roman Emperors wore it . 
And it wasn't any nice colour while the fish had it . 
It was a yellowish white liquid of a creamy consistency . 
'How do you know ? asked Cyril . 
'I read it , said Robert , with the meek pride of superior knowledge . 
'In print , said Robert , still more proudly meek . 
'You think everything's true if it's printed , said Cyril , naturally annoyed , 'but it isn't . 
Quite a lot of lies get printed , especially in newspapers . 
'You see , as it happens , said Robert , in what was really a rather annoying tone , 'it wasn't a newspaper , it was in a book . 
'How sweet Chinese white is ! said Jane , dreamily sucking her brush again . 
'I don't believe it , said Cyril to Robert . 
'Have a suck yourself , suggested Robert . 
'I don't mean about the Chinese white . 
I mean about the cream fish turning purple and 'Oh ! cried Anthea , jumping up very quickly , 'I'm tired of painting . 
Let's go somewhere by Amulet . 
I say let's let IT choose . 
Cyril and Robert agreed that this was an idea . 
The Amulet was held up . 
'Take us somewhere , said Jane , 'anywhere you like in the Past but somewhere where you are . 
Then she said the word . 
Next moment everyone felt a queer rocking and swaying something like what you feel when you go out in a fishing boat . 
And that was not wonderful , when you come to think of it , for it was in a boat that they found themselves . 
A queer boat , with high bulwarks pierced with holes for oars to go through . 
There was a high seat for the steersman , and the prow was shaped like the head of some great animal with big , staring eyes . 
The boat rode at anchor in a bay , and the bay was very smooth . 
The crew were dark , wiry fellows with black beards and hair . 
They had no clothes except a tunic from waist to knee , and round caps with knobs on the top . 
They were very busy , and what they were doing was so interesting to the children that at first they did not even wonder where the Amulet had brought them . 
And the crew seemed too busy to notice the children . 
They were fastening rush baskets to a long rope with a great piece of cork at the end , and in each basket they put mussels or little frogs . 
Then they cast out the rope , the baskets sank , but the cork floated . 
And all about on the blue water were other boats and all the crews of all the boats were busy with ropes and baskets and frogs and mussels . 
'Whatever are you doing ? Jane suddenly asked a man who had rather more clothes than the others , and seemed to be a sort of captain or overseer . 
He started and stared at her , but he had seen too many strange lands to be very much surprised at these queerly dressed stowaways . 
'Setting lines for the dye shell fish , he said shortly . 
'How did you get here ? 'A sort of magic , said Robert carelessly . 
The Captain fingered an Amulet that hung round his neck . 
'What is this place ? asked Cyril . 
'Tyre , of course , said the man . 
Then he drew back and spoke in a low voice to one of the sailors . 
'Now we shall know about your precious cream jug fish , said Cyril . 
'But we never SAID come to Tyre , said Jane . 
'The Amulet heard us talking , I expect . 
I think it's MOST obliging of it , said Anthea . 
'And the Amulet's here too , said Robert . 
'We ought to be able to find it in a little ship like this . 
I wonder which of them's got it . 
'Oh look , look ! cried Anthea suddenly . 
On the bare breast of one of the sailors gleamed something red . 
It was the exact counterpart of their precious half Amulet . 
A silence , full of emotion , was broken by Jane . 
'Then we've found it ! she said . 
'Oh do let's take it and go home ! 'Easy to say take it , said Cyril 'he looks very strong . 
He did yet not so strong as the other sailors . 
'It's odd , said Anthea musingly , 'I do believe I've seen that man somewhere before . 
'He's rather like our learned gentleman , said Robert , 'but I'll tell you who he's much more like At that moment that sailor looked up . 
His eyes met Robert's and Robert and the others had no longer any doubt as to where they had seen him before . 
Nobody was quite pleased , and nobody quite knew why . 
Jane voiced the feelings of all when she said , fingering THEIR Amulet through the folds of her frock , 'We can go back in a minute if anything nasty happens . 
For the moment nothing worse happened than an offer of food figs and cucumbers it was , and very pleasant . 
'I see , said the Captain , 'that you are from a far country . 
Since you have honoured my boat by appearing on it , you must stay here till morning . 
Then I will lead you to one of our great ones . 
He loves strangers from far lands . 
'Let's go home , Jane whispered , 'all the frogs are drowning NOW . 
I think the people here are cruel . 
But the boys wanted to stay and see the lines taken up in the morning . 
'It's just like eel pots and lobster pots , said Cyril , 'the baskets only open from outside I vote we stay . 
'That's Tyre over there , said the Captain , who was evidently trying to be civil . 
He pointed to a great island rock , that rose steeply from the sea , crowned with huge walls and towers . 
There was another city on the mainland . 
'That's part of Tyre , too , said the Captain 'it's where the great merchants have their pleasure houses and gardens and farms . 
'Look , look ! Cyril cried suddenly 'what a lovely little ship ! A ship in full sail was passing swiftly through the fishing fleet . 
He frowned , and his eyes blazed with fury . 
'Insolent young barbarian ! he cried . 
'Do you call the ships of Tyre LITTLE ? None greater sail the seas . 
That ship has been on a three years' voyage . 
She is known in all the great trading ports from here to the Tin Islands . 
She comes back rich and glorious . 
Her very anchor is of silver . 
'I'm sure we beg your pardon , said Anthea hastily . 
'In our country we say little for a pet name . 
Your wife might call you her dear little husband , you know . 
'I should like to catch her at it , growled the Captain , but he stopped scowling . 
'It's a rich trade , he went on . 
'For cloth ONCE dipped , second best glass , and the rough images our young artists carve for practice , the barbarian King in Tessos lets us work the silver mines . 
We get so much silver there that we leave them our iron anchors and come back with silver ones . 
'How splendid ! said Robert . 
What's cloth once dipped ? 'You MUST be barbarians from the outer darkness , said the Captain scornfully . 
'All wealthy nations know that our finest stuffs are twice dyed dibaptha . 
They're only for the robes of kings and priests and princes . 
'What do the rich merchants wear , asked Jane , with interest , 'in the pleasure houses ? 'They wear the dibaptha . 
OUR merchants ARE princes , scowled the skipper . 
'Oh , don't be cross , we do so like hearing about things . 
We want to know ALL about the dyeing , said Anthea cordially . 
'Oh , you do , do you ? growled the man . 
'So that's what you're here for ? Well , you won't get the secrets of the dye trade out of ME . 
He went away , and everyone felt snubbed and uncomfortable . 
And all the time the long , narrow eyes of the Egyptian were watching , watching . 
They felt as though he was watching them through the darkness , when they lay down to sleep on a pile of cloaks . 
Next morning the baskets were drawn up full of what looked like whelk shells . 
The children were rather in the way , but they made themselves as small as they could . 
While the skipper was at the other end of the boat they did ask one question of a sailor , whose face was a little less unkind than the others . 
'Yes , he answered , 'this is the dye fish . 
It's a sort of murex and there's another kind that they catch at Sidon and then , of course , there's the kind that's used for the dibaptha . 
It's 'Hold your tongue ! shouted the skipper . 
And the man held it . 
The laden boat was rowed slowly round the end of the island , and was made fast in one of the two great harbours that lay inside a long breakwater . 
The harbour was full of all sorts of ships , so that Cyril and Robert enjoyed themselves much more than their sisters . 
The breakwater and the quays were heaped with bales and baskets , and crowded with slaves and sailors . 
Farther along some men were practising diving . 
'That's jolly good , said Robert , as a naked brown body cleft the water . 
'I should think so , said the skipper . 
'The pearl divers of Persia are not more skilful . 
Why , we've got a fresh water spring that comes out at the bottom of the sea . 
As they neared the quay the skipper made a hasty toilet . 
'Now , said he , 'I'm fit to be seen . 
Come along ? 'Where to ? said Jane cautiously . 
'To Pheles , the great sea captain , said the skipper , 'the man I told you of , who loves barbarians . 
Then Rekh mara came forward , and , for the first time , spoke . 
'I have known these children in another land , he said . 
'You know my powers of magic . 
It was my magic that brought these barbarians to your boat . 
And you know how they will profit you . 
The skipper looked at the Egyptian with some disfavour . 
'So it was YOUR doing , he said . 
'I might have guessed it . 
So he came , and the girls wished he hadn't . 
But Robert whispered 'Nonsense as long as he's with us we've got some chance of the Amulet . 
We can always fly if anything goes wrong . 
The morning was so fresh and bright their breakfast had been so good and so unusual they had actually seen the Amulet round the Egyptian's neck . 
One or two , or all these things , suddenly raised the children's spirits . 
But far worse than the street scents was the scent of the factory , where the skipper called in to sell his night's catch . 
I wish I could tell you all about that factory , but I haven't time , and perhaps after all you aren't interested in dyeing works . 
I will only mention that Robert was triumphantly proved to be right . 
The dye WAS a yellowish white liquid of a creamy consistency , and it smelt more strongly of garlic than garlic itself does . 
While the skipper was bargaining with the master of the dye works the Egyptian came close to the children , and said , suddenly and softly 'Trust me . 
'I wish we could , said Anthea . 
'You feel , said the Egyptian , 'that I want your Amulet . 
That makes you distrust me . 
'Yes , said Cyril bluntly . 
'But you also , you want my Amulet , and I am trusting you . 
'There's something in that , said Robert . 
'We have the two halves of the Amulet , said the Priest , 'but not yet the pin that joined them . 
Our only chance of getting that is to remain together . 
Once part these two halves and they may never be found in the same time and place . 
Our interests are the same . 
Before anyone could say more the skipper came back , and with him the dye master . 
His hair and beard were curled like the men's in Babylon , and he was dressed like the skipper , but with added grandeur of gold and embroidery . 
He looked keenly at the children . 
Then he said 'My brother Pheles has just come back from Tarshish . 
He's at his garden house unless he's hunting wild boar in the marshes . 
He gets frightfully bored on shore . 
'Ah , said the skipper , 'he's a true born Phoenician . 
Tyre , Tyre for ever ! Oh , Tyre rules the waves ! as the old song says . 
I'll go at once , and show him my young barbarians . 
'I should , said the dye master . 
'They are very rum , aren't they ? What frightful clothes , and what a lot of them ! Observe the covering of their feet . 
But if he had , flight would have had to be the next move , so he restrained his impulse . 
There was something about this Tyrian adventure that was different from all the others . 
It was , somehow , calmer . 
And there was the undoubted fact that the charm was there on the neck of the Egyptian . 
In the distance were the mountains of Lebanon . 
The house they came to at last was rather like a bungalow long and low , with pillars all along the front . 
Cedars and sycamores grew near it and sheltered it pleasantly . 
Everyone dismounted , and the donkeys were led away . 
'Why is this like Rosherville ? whispered Robert , and instantly supplied the answer . 
'Because it's the place to spend a happy day . 
'It's jolly decent of the skipper to have brought us to such a ripping place , said Cyril . 
'Do you know , said Anthea , 'this feels more real than anything else we've seen ? It's like a holiday in the country at home . 
The children were left alone in a large hall . 
The floor was mosaic , done with wonderful pictures of ships and sea beasts and fishes . 
Through an open doorway they could see a pleasant courtyard with flowers . 
'I should like to spend a week here , said Jane , 'and donkey ride every day . 
Everyone was feeling very jolly . 
Even the Egyptian looked pleasanter than usual . 
And then , quite suddenly , the skipper came back with a joyous smile . 
With him came the master of the house . 
He looked steadily at the children and nodded twice . 
'Yes , he said , 'my steward will pay you the price . 
But I shall not pay at that high rate for the Egyptian dog . 
'This , said the Egyptian , 'is a pretty kettle of fish . 
'What is ? asked all the children at once . 
'Our present position , said Rekh mara . 
'Our seafaring friend , he added , 'has sold us all for slaves ! A hasty council succeeded the shock of this announcement . 
The Priest was allowed to take part in it . 
And after some discussion they agreed to this . 
The children were treated more as guests than as slaves , but the Egyptian was sent to the kitchen and made to work . 
Pheles , the master of the house , went off that very evening , by the King's orders , to start on another voyage . 
And when he was gone his wife found the children amusing company , and kept them talking and singing and dancing till quite late . 
'To distract my mind from my sorrows , she said . 
'I do like being a slave , remarked Jane cheerfully , as they curled up on the big , soft cushions that were to be their beds . 
It was black night when they were awakened , each by a hand passed softly over its face , and a low voice that whispered 'Be quiet , or all is lost . 
'It's me , Rekh mara , the Priest of Amen , said the whisperer . 
'The man who brought us has gone to sea again , and he has taken my Amulet from me by force , and I know no magic to get it back . 
Is there magic for that in the Amulet you bear ? Everyone was instantly awake by now . 
'We can go after him , said Cyril , leaping up 'but he might take OURS as well or he might be angry with us for following him . 
'I'll see to THAT , said the Egyptian in the dark . 
There in the deep blackness of that room in the Tyrian country house the Amulet was once more held up and the word spoken . 
All passed through on to a ship that tossed and tumbled on a wind blown sea . 
They crouched together there till morning , and Jane and Cyril were not at all well . 
When the dawn showed , dove coloured , across the steely waves , they stood up as well as they could for the tumbling of the ship . 
Pheles , that hardy sailor and adventurer , turned quite pale when he turned round suddenly and saw them . 
'I never did ! repeated Pheles . 
'Well , well ! 'What port is the ship bound for ? asked Robert , with a nautical air . 
But Pheles said , 'Are you a navigator ? Robert had to own that he was not . 
'Then , said Pheles , 'I don't mind telling you that we're bound for the Tin Isles . 
Tyre alone knows where the Tin Isles are . 
It is a splendid secret we keep from all the world . 
It is as great a thing to us as your magic to you . 
He spoke in quite a new voice , and seemed to respect both the children and the Amulet a good deal more than he had done before . 
'The King sent you , didn't he ? said Jane . 
'Yes , answered Pheles , 'he bade me set sail with half a score brave gentlemen and this crew . 
You shall go with us , and see many wonders . 
He bowed and left them . 
'What are we going to do now ? said Robert , when Pheles had caused them to be left along with a breakfast of dried fruits and a sort of hard biscuit . 
'Wait till he lands in the Tin Isles , said Rekh mara , 'then we can get the barbarians to help us . 
We will attack him by night and tear the sacred Amulet from his accursed heathen neck , he added , grinding his teeth . 
'When shall we get to the Tin Isles ? asked Jane . 
'Oh six months , perhaps , or a year , said the Egyptian cheerfully . 
'A year of THIS ? cried Jane , and Cyril , who was still feeling far too unwell to care about breakfast , hugged himself miserably and shuddered . 
It was Robert who said 'Look here , we can shorten that year . 
Jane , out with the Amulet ! Wish that we were where the Amulet will be when the ship is twenty miles from the Tin Island . 
That'll give us time to mature our plans . 
It was done the work of a moment and there they were on the same ship , between grey northern sky and grey northern sea . 
The sun was setting in a pale yellow line . 
It was the same ship , but it was changed , and so were the crew . 
Weather worn and dirty were the sailors , and their clothes torn and ragged . 
And the children saw that , of course , though they had skipped the nine months , the ship had had to live through them . 
Pheles looked thinner , and his face was rugged and anxious . 
'I need a great wave that shall whelm away the foreign ship that follows us . 
If I could steer by night I could escape them yet , but tonight there will be no stars . 
'My magic will not serve you here , said the Egyptian . 
But Robert said , 'My magic will not bring up great waves , but I can show you how to steer without stars . 
And he showed Pheles how it worked . 
And Pheles wondered at the compass's magic truth . 
'I will give it to you , Robert said , 'in return for that charm about your neck . 
He first laughed , snatched the compass from Robert's hand , and turned away still laughing . 
'Be comforted , the Priest whispered , 'our time will come . 
The dusk deepened , and Pheles , crouched beside a dim lantern , steered by the shilling compass from the Crystal Palace . 
He was silent a moment , then suddenly he altered the ship's course , and then he stood up and spoke . 
'Good friends and gentlemen , he said , 'who are bound with me in this brave venture by our King's command , the false , foreign ship is close on our heels . 
Shall this be ? 'Never ! cried the half dozen men near him . 
The slaves were rowing hard below and could not hear his words . 
The Egyptian leaped upon him suddenly , fiercely , as a wild beast leaps . 
'Give me back my Amulet , he cried , and caught at the charm . 
The chain that held it snapped , and it lay in the Priest's hand . 
Pheles laughed , standing balanced to the leap of the ship that answered the oarstroke . 
'This is no time for charms and mummeries , he said . 
'We've lived like men , and we'll die like gentlemen for the honour and glory of Tyre , our splendid city . 
Tyre , Tyre for ever ! It's Tyre that rules the waves . 
I steer her straight for the Dragon rocks , and we go down for our city , as brave men should . 
The creeping cowards who follow shall go down as slaves and slaves they shall be to us when we live again . 
Tyre , Tyre for ever ! A great shout went up , and the slaves below joined in it . 
'Quick , the Amulet , cried Anthea , and held it up . 
Rekh mara held up the one he had snatched from Pheles . 
The word was spoken , and the two great arches grew on the plunging ship in the shrieking wind under the dark sky . 
From each Amulet a great and beautiful green light streamed and shone far out over the waves . 
It illuminated , too , the black faces and jagged teeth of the great rocks that lay not two ships' lengths from the boat's peaked nose . 
'Tyre , Tyre for ever ! It's Tyre that rules the waves ! the voices of the doomed rose in a triumphant shout . 
'And so we've lost the other half of the Amulet again , said Anthea , when they had told the Psammead all about it . 
'Nonsense , pooh ! said the Psammead . 
'That wasn't the other half . 
It was the same half that you've got the one that wasn't crushed and lost . 
'But how could it be the same ? said Anthea gently . 
'Well , not exactly , of course . 
The one you've got is a good many years older , but at any rate it's not the other one . 
What did you say when you wished ? 'I forget , said Jane . 
'I don't , said the Psammead . 
'You said , Take us where YOU are and it did , so you see it was the same half . 
'I see , said Anthea . 
'But you mark my words , the Psammead went on , 'you'll have trouble with that Priest yet . 
'Why , he was quite friendly , said Anthea . 
'All the same you'd better beware of the Reverend Rekh mara . 
'Oh , I'm sick of the Amulet , said Cyril , 'we shall never get it . 
'Oh yes we shall , said Robert . 
'Don't you remember December rd ? 'Jinks ! said Cyril , 'I'd forgotten that . 
'I don't believe it , said Jane , 'and I don't feel at all well . 
'If I were you , said the Psammead , 'I should not go out into the Past again till that date . 
You'll find it safer not to go where you're likely to meet that Egyptian any more just at present . 
'Of course we'll do as you say , said Anthea soothingly , 'though there's something about his face that I really do like . 
'Still , you don't want to run after him , I suppose , snapped the Psammead . 
'You wait till the rd , and then see what happens . 
Cyril and Jane were feeling far from well , Anthea was always obliging , so Robert was overruled . 
And none of them , not even the Psammead , at all foresaw , as you no doubt do quite plainly , exactly what it was that WOULD happen on that memorable date . 
CHAPTER THE HEART'S DESIRE If I only had time I could tell you lots of things . 
And how the Phoenix did not remember them at all until it went into a sort of prophetic trance if that can be called remembering . 
But , alas ! I HAVEN'T time , so I must leave all that out though it was a wonderfully thrilling adventure . 
She took in the letters , however , and put them in the back of the hat stand drawer , so that they should be safe . 
And safe they were , for she never thought of them again for weeks and weeks . 
One really good thing happened when they took the Psammead to a magic lantern show and lecture at the boys' school at Camden Town . 
The lecture was all about our soldiers in South Africa . 
And , of course , this came true which was a distinct score for Camden Town . 
But Jane said , 'I daresay we are already because of our beautiful natures . 
It's only boys that have to be made brave by magic' which nearly led to a first class row . 
The only thing that there's time to tell about is the Adventure of Maskelyne and Cooke's , and the Unexpected Apparition which is also the beginning of the end . 
It was Nurse who broke into the gloomy music of the autumn rain on the window panes by suggesting a visit to the Egyptian Hall , England's Home of Mystery . 
Though they had good , but private reasons to know that their own particular personal mystery was of a very different brand , the four all brightened at the idea . 
All children , as well as a good many grown ups , love conjuring . 
'It's in Piccadilly , said old Nurse , carefully counting out the proper number of shillings into Cyril's hand , 'not so very far down on the left from the Circus . 
There's big pillars outside , something like Carter's seed place in Holborn , as used to be Day and Martin's blacking when I was a gell . 
And something like Euston Station , only not so big . 
'Yes , I know , said everybody . 
At last they stopped a hurried lady , and asked her the way to Maskelyne and Cooke's . 
'I don't know , I'm sure , she said , pushing past them . 
'I always shop at the Stores . 
Which just shows , as Jane said , how ignorant grown up people are . 
It was a policeman who at last explained to them that England's Mysteries are now appropriately enough enacted at St George's Hall . 
So they tramped to Langham Place , and missed the first two items in the programme . 
'If only the Babylonians could have seen THIS conjuring , whispered Cyril . 
'It takes the shine out of their old conjurer , doesn't it ? 'Hush ! said Anthea and several other members of the audience . 
Now there was a vacant seat next to Robert . 
He did not feel someone sit down in it . 
It was just that one moment there was no one sitting there , and the next moment , suddenly , there was someone . 
And it happened that his eyes were more particularly fixed on that empty chair . 
So that he saw quite plainly the sudden appearance , from nowhere , of the Egyptian Priest . 
'A jolly good trick , he said to himself , 'and worked under my own eyes , in my own hall . 
I'll find out how that's done . 
He had never seen a trick that he could not do himself if he tried . 
By this time a good many eyes in the audience had turned on the clean shaven , curiously dressed figure of the Egyptian Priest . 
'Ladies and gentlemen , said Mr Devant , rising to the occasion , 'this is a trick I have never before performed . 
The empty seat , third from the end , second row , gallery you will now find occupied by an Ancient Egyptian , warranted genuine . 
He little knew how true his words were . 
And now all eyes were turned on the Priest and the children , and the whole audience , after a moment's breathless surprise , shouted applause . 
Only the lady on the other side of Rekh mara drew back a little . 
She KNEW no one had passed her , and , as she said later , over tea and cold tongue , 'it was that sudden it made her flesh creep . 
Rekh mara seemed very much annoyed at the notice he was exciting . 
'Come out of this crowd , he whispered to Robert . 
'I must talk with you apart . 
'Oh , no , Jane whispered . 
'I did so want to see the Mascot Moth , and the Ventriloquist . 
'How did you get here ? was Robert's return whisper . 
'How did you get to Egypt and to Tyre ? retorted Rekh mara . 
'Come , let us leave this crowd . 
'There's no help for it , I suppose , Robert shrugged angrily . 
But they all got up . 
'Confederates ! said a man in the row behind . 
'Now they go round to the back and take part in the next scene . 
'I wish we did , said Robert . 
'Confederate yourself ! said Cyril . 
And so they got away , the audience applauding to the last . 
It had to be a cab , and it took the last , least money of all of them . 
When the girls came up they found the Egyptian Priest sitting on the side of Cyril's bed , his hands on his knees , looking like a statue of a king . 
'Come on , said Cyril impatiently . 
'He won't begin till we're all here . 
And shut the door , can't you ? When the door was shut the Egyptian said 'My interests and yours are one . 
'What is this country ? and what is this time ? 'The country's England , said Anthea , 'and the time's about , years later than YOUR time . 
'Look here , it'll be tea time directly . 
What are we to do with you ? 'You have one half of the Amulet , I the other , said Rekh mara . 
'All that is now needed is the pin to join them . 
'Don't you think it , said Robert . 
'The half you've got is the same half as the one we've got . 
'But the same thing cannot be in the same place and the same time , and yet be not one , but twain , said the Priest . 
'See , here is my half . 
He laid it on the Marcella counterpane . 
Cyril and Robert stood beside him , ready to spring on him if one of his hands had moved but ever so little towards the magic treasure that was theirs . 
But Anthea caught it up , and at the same moment the Priest was jerked back by a rope thrown over his head . 
It drew , tightened with the pull of his forward leap , and bound his elbows to his sides . 
Before he had time to use his strength to free himself , Robert had knotted the cord behind him and tied it to the bedpost . 
Then the four children , overcoming the priest's wrigglings and kickings , tied his legs with more rope . 
The girls , with rather white faces , applauded his foresight . 
'Oh , don't quarrel ! said Anthea desperately . 
'Look here , he has just as much right to the thing as we have . 
This , she took up the Amulet that had swallowed the other one , 'this has got his in it as well as being ours . 
'Let me go ! cried the Priest , writhing . 
NOW will you shut up and listen to reason ? 'I suppose so , said Rekh mara sulkily . 
At last Anthea detached herself from the group , and went back to the Priest . 
'Look here , she said in her kind little voice , 'we want to be friends . 
We want to help you . 
Let's join together to get the Amulet the whole one , I mean . 
And then it shall belong to you as much as to us , and we shall all get our hearts' desire . 
'Fair words , said the Priest , 'grow no onions . 
'WE say , Butter no parsnips , Jane put in . 
'But don't you see we WANT to be fair ? Only we want to bind you in the chains of honour and upright dealing . 
'Will you deal fairly by us ? said Robert . 
'I will , said the Priest . 
'By the sacred , secret name that is written under the Altar of Amen Ra , I will deal fairly by you . 
Will you , too , take the oath of honourable partnership ? 'No , said Anthea , on the instant , and added rather rashly . 
'We don't swear in England , except in police courts , where the guards are , you know , and you don't want to go there . 
But when we SAY we'll do a thing it's the same as an oath to us we do it . 
You trust us , and we'll trust you . 
She began to unbind his legs , and the boys hastened to untie his arms . 
When he was free he stood up , stretched his arms , and laughed . 
'Now , he said , 'I am stronger than you and my oath is void . 
I have sworn by nothing , and my oath is nothing likewise . 
For there IS no secret , sacred name under the altar of Amen Ra . 
'Oh , yes there is ! said a voice from under the bed . 
Everyone started Rekh mara most of all . 
Cyril stooped and pulled out the bath of sand where the Psammead slept . 
'You don't know everything , though you ARE a Divine Father of the Temple of Amen , said the Psammead shaking itself till the sand fell tinkling on the bath edge . 
'There IS a secret , sacred name beneath the altar of Amen Ra . 
Shall I call on that name ? 'No , no ! cried the Priest in terror . 
'No , said Jane , too . 
'Don't let's have any calling names . 
'Then that's all right , said the Psammead 'and there's the tea bell . 
What are you going to do with your distinguished partner ? He can't go down to tea like that , you know . 
'You see we can't do anything till the rd of December , said Anthea , 'that's when we are to find the whole charm . 
What can we do with Rekh mara till then ? 'Box room , said Cyril briefly , 'and smuggle up his meals . 
It will be rather fun . 
'Like a fleeing Cavalier concealed from exasperated Roundheads , said Robert . 
So Rekh mara was taken up to the box room and made as comfortable as possible in a snug nook between an old nursery fender and the wreck of a big four poster . 
They gave him a big rag bag to sit on , and an old , moth eaten fur coat off the nail on the door to keep him warm . 
And when they had had their own tea they took him some . 
He did not like the tea at all , but he liked the bread and butter , and cake that went with it . 
They took it in turns to sit with him during the evening , and left him fairly happy and quite settled for the night . 
'Good riddance ! was naturally the first delightful thought in each mind . 
Therefore he must be still in England , and probably somewhere quite near them , plotting mischief . 
The attic was searched , to prevent mistakes , but quite vainly . 
'The best thing we can do , said Cyril , 'is to go through the half Amulet straight away , get the whole Amulet , and come back . 
'I don't know , Anthea hesitated . 
'Would that be quite fair ? Perhaps he isn't really a base deceiver . 
Perhaps something's happened to him . 
'Happened ? said Cyril , 'not it ! Besides , what COULD happen ? 'I don't know , said Anthea . 
'Perhaps burglars came in the night , and accidentally killed him , and took away the all that was mortal of him , you know to avoid discovery . 
'Or perhaps , said Cyril , 'they hid the all that was mortal , in one of those big trunks in the box room . 
SHALL WE GO BACK AND LOOK ? he added grimly . 
'No , no ! Jane shuddered . 
'Let's go and tell the Psammead and see what it says . 
'No , said Anthea , 'let's ask the learned gentleman . 
If anything has happened to Rekh mara a gentleman's advice would be more useful than a Psammead's . 
And the learned gentleman'll only think it's a dream , like he always does . 
They tapped at the door , and on the 'Come in' entered . 
The learned gentleman was sitting in front of his untasted breakfast . 
Opposite him , in the easy chair , sat Rekh mara ! 'Hush ! said the learned gentleman very earnestly , 'please , hush ! or the dream will go . 
I feel more at home here somehow . 
'Of course I know it's a dream , said the learned gentleman feverishly , 'but , oh , ye gods ! what a dream ! By jove ! . 
'Call not upon the gods , said the Priest , 'lest ye raise greater ones than ye can control . 
Already , he explained to the children , 'he and I are as brothers , and his welfare is dear to me as my own . 
'He has told me , the learned gentleman began , but Robert interrupted . 
This was no moment for manners . 
'Have you told him , he asked the Priest , 'all about the Amulet ? 'No , said Rekh mara . 
Perhaps he can tell us what to do . 
Rekh mara hesitated , then told and , oddly enough , none of the children ever could remember afterwards what it was that he did tell . 
Perhaps he used some magic to prevent their remembering . 
When he had done the learned gentleman was silent , leaning his elbow on the table and his head on his hand . 
'Dear Jimmy , said Anthea gently , 'don't worry about it . 
We are sure to find it today , somehow . 
'Yes , said Rekh mara , 'and perhaps , with it , Death . 
'It's to bring us our hearts' desire , said Robert . 
'Who knows , said the Priest , 'what things undreamed of and infinitely desirable lie beyond the dark gates ? 'Oh , DON'T , said Jane , almost whimpering . 
The learned gentleman raised his head suddenly . 
'Why not , he suggested , 'go back into the Past ? At a moment when the Amulet is unwatched . 
Wish to be with it , and that it shall be under your hand . 
It was the simplest thing in the world ! And yet none of them had ever thought of it . 
'Come , cried Rekh mara , leaping up . 
'Come NOW ! 'May may I come ? the learned gentleman timidly asked . 
'It's only a dream , you know . 
'Come , and welcome , oh brother , Rekh mara was beginning , but Cyril and Robert with one voice cried , 'NO . 
'You weren't with us in Atlantis , Robert added , 'or you'd know better than to let him come . 
'Dear Jimmy , said Anthea , 'please don't ask to come . 
We'll go and be back again before you have time to know that we're gone . 
'And he , too ? 'We must keep together , said Rekh mara , 'since there is but one perfect Amulet to which I and these children have equal claims . 
Jane held up the Amulet Rekh mara went first and they all passed through the great arch into which the Amulet grew at the Name of Power . 
The learned gentleman saw through the arch a darkness lighted by smoky gleams . 
And he only rubbed them for ten seconds . 
The children and the Priest were in a small , dark chamber . 
A square doorway of massive stone let in gleams of shifting light , and the sound of many voices chanting a slow , strange hymn . 
Now and then the chant quickened and the light grew brighter , as though fuel had been thrown on a fire . 
'Where are we ? whispered Anthea . 
'And when ? whispered Robert . 
'This is some shrine near the beginnings of belief , said the Egyptian shivering . 
'Take the Amulet and come away . 
It is cold here in the morning of the world . 
'It's HERE ! she said , 'I've got it ! And she hardly knew the sound of her own voice . 
'Come away , repeated Rekh mara . 
'I wish we could see more of this Temple , said Robert resistingly . 
'Come away , the Priest urged , 'there is death all about , and strong magic . 
The chanting voices seemed to have grown louder and fiercer , and light stronger . 
'They are coming ! cried Rekh mara . 
'Quick , quick , the Amulet ! Jane held it up . 
'What a long time you've been rubbing your eyes ! said Anthea 'don't you see we've got back ? The learned gentleman merely stared at her . 
'Miss Anthea Miss Jane ! It was Nurse's voice , very much higher and squeaky and more exalted than usual . 
'Oh , bother ! said everyone . 
Cyril adding , 'You just go on with the dream for a sec , Mr Jimmy , we'll be back directly . 
Nurse'll come up if we don't . 
SHE wouldn't think Rekh mara was a dream . 
Nurse was in the hall , an orange envelope in one hand , and a pink paper in the other . 
'Your Pa and Ma's come home . 
Prepare rooms as directed in letter , and signed in their two names . 
'Oh , hooray ! hooray ! hooray ! shouted the boys and Jane . 
But Anthea could not shout , she was nearer crying . 
'Oh , she said almost in a whisper , 'then it WAS true . 
And we HAVE got our hearts' desire . 
'But I don't understand about the letter , Nurse was saying . 
'I haven't HAD no letter . 
'OH ! said Jane in a queer voice , 'I wonder whether it was one of those . 
'Mercy me ! said old Nurse . 
'I declare if it's not too bad of You , Miss Jane . 
I shall have a nice to do getting things straight for your Pa and Ma . 
'Oh , never mind , Nurse , said Jane , hugging her 'isn't it just too lovely for anything ! 'We'll come and help you , said Cyril . 
'There's just something upstairs we've got to settle up , and then we'll all come and help you . 
'Get along with you , said old Nurse , but she laughed jollily . 
And it's ten o'clock now . 
There was , in fact , something upstairs that they had to settle . 
Quite a considerable something , too . 
And it took much longer than they expected . 
A hasty rush into the boys' room secured the Psammead , very sandy and very cross . 
'It doesn't matter how cross and sandy it is though , said Anthea , 'it ought to be there at the final council . 
'It'll give the learned gentleman fits , I expect , said Robert , 'when he sees it . 
'The dream is growing more and more wonderful , he exclaimed , when the Psammead had been explained to him by Rekh mara . 
'I have dreamed this beast before . 
'Now , said Robert , 'Jane has got the half Amulet and I've got the whole . 
Robert laid down the whole Amulet , and Anthea gently restrained the eager hand of the learned gentleman as it reached out yearningly towards the 'perfect specimen' . 
'And THAT'S all right , said the Psammead , breaking a breathless silence . 
'Yes , said Anthea , 'and we've got our hearts' desire . 
Father and Mother and The Lamb are coming home today . 
'But what about me ? said Rekh mara . 
'What IS your heart's desire ? Anthea asked . 
'Great and deep learning , said the Priest , without a moment's hesitation . 
'A learning greater and deeper than that of any man of my land and my time . 
But learning too great is useless . 
'If I were you , said the Psammead , 'I should ask the Amulet about that . 
It's a dangerous thing , trying to live in a time that's not your own . 
You can't breathe an air that's thousands of centuries ahead of your lungs without feeling the effects of it , sooner or later . 
Prepare the mystic circle and consult the Amulet . 
'Oh , WHAT a dream ! cried the learned gentleman . 
'Dear children , if you love me and I think you do , in dreams and out of them prepare the mystic circle and consult the Amulet ! They did . 
As once before , when the sun had shone in August splendour , they crouched in a circle on the floor . 
Now the air outside was thick and yellow with the fog that by some strange decree always attends the Cattle Show week . 
And in the street costers were shouting . 
'Ur Hekau Setcheh , Jane said the Name of Power . 
It was like being deaf or blind , only darker and quieter even than that . 
Then out of that vast darkness and silence came a light and a voice . 
The light was too faint to see anything by , and the voice was too small for you to hear what it said . 
But the light and the voice grew . 
And the light was the light that no man may look on and live , and the voice was the sweetest and most terrible voice in the world . 
The children cast down their eyes . 
'I speak , said the voice . 
'What is it that you would hear ? There was a pause . 
Everyone was afraid to speak . 
'What are we to do about Rekh mara ? said Robert suddenly and abruptly . 
Only when it was imperfect could such things be . 
But men may pass through the perfect charm to the perfect union , which is not of time or space . 
'Nobody can continue to live in a land and in a time not appointed , said the voice of glorious sweetness . 
The children exchanged discouraged glances . 
But the eyes of Rekh mara and the learned gentleman met , and were kind to each other , and promised each other many things , secret and sacred and very beautiful . 
'Oh , but , she said , without at all meaning to say it , 'dear Jimmy's soul isn't at all like Rekh mara's . 
I don't want to be rude , but it ISN'T , you know . 
Dear Jimmy's soul is as good as gold , and 'Nothing that is not good can pass beneath the double arch of my perfect Amulet , said the voice . 
'If both are willing , say the word of Power , and let the two souls become one for ever and ever more . 
'Shall I ? asked Jane . 
The voices were those of the Egyptian Priest and the learned gentleman , and the voices were eager , alive , thrilled with hope and the desire of great things . 
So Jane took the Amulet from Robert and held it up between the two men , and said , for the last time , the word of Power . 
The perfect Amulet grew into a double arch the two arches leaned to each other making a great A. 'A stands for Amen , whispered Jane 'what he was a priest of . 
'Come ! cried Rekh mara , holding out his hands . 
'Come ! cried the learned gentleman , and he also held out his hands . 
Each moved forward under the glowing , glorious arch of the perfect Amulet . 
Then Rekh mara quavered and shook , and as steel is drawn to a magnet he was drawn , under the arch of magic , nearer and nearer to the learned gentleman . 
And suddenly it was good daylight and the December sun shone . 
The fog has passed away like a dream . 
The Amulet was there little and complete in jane's hand , and there were the other children and the Psammead , and the learned gentleman . 
But Rekh mara or the body of Rekh mara was not there any more . 
'Oh , the horrid thing ! cried Robert , and put his foot on a centipede as long as your finger , that crawled and wriggled and squirmed at the learned gentleman's feet . 
'THAT , said the Psammead , 'WAS the evil in the soul of Rekh mara . 
There was a deep silence . 
'Then Rekh mara's HIM now ? said Jane at last . 
'All that was good in Rekh mara , said the Psammead . 
'HE ought to have his heart's desire , too , said Anthea , in a sort of stubborn gentleness . 
'HIS heart's desire , said the Psammead , 'is the perfect Amulet you hold in your hand . 
Yes and has been ever since he first saw the broken half of it . 
'We've got ours , said Anthea softly . 
'Yes , said the Psammead its voice was crosser than they had ever heard it 'your parents are coming home . 
And what's to become of ME ? I shall be found out , and made a show of , and degraded in every possible way . 
I KNOW they'll make me go into Parliament hateful place all mud and no sand . 
That beautiful Baalbec temple in the desert ! Plenty of good sand there , and no politics ! I wish I were there , safe in the Past that I do . 
'I wish you were , said the learned gentleman absently , yet polite as ever . 
The Psammead swelled itself up , turned its long snail's eyes in one last lingering look at Anthea a loving look , she always said , and thought and vanished . 
'Well , said Anthea , after a silence , 'I suppose it's happy . 
The only thing it ever did really care for was SAND . 
'My dear children , said the learned gentleman , 'I must have fallen asleep . 
I've had the most extraordinary dream . 
'I hope it was a nice one , said Cyril with courtesy . 
I feel a new man after it . 
There was a ring at the front door bell . 
The opening of a door . 
'It's THEM ! cried Robert , and a thrill ran through four hearts . 
'Here ! cried Anthea , snatching the Amulet from Jane and pressing it into the hand of the learned gentleman . 
'Here it's yours your very own a present from us , because you're Rekh mara as well as . 
I mean , because you're such a dear . 
