This Etext created by Tokuya Matsumoto toqyam os . 
It has been wished to make these Tales easy reading for very young children . 
To the utmost of their ability the writers have constantly kept this in mind but the subjects of most of them made this a very difficult task . 
It was no easy matter to give the histories of men and women in terms familiar to the apprehension of a very young mind . 
She came to this island so young , that she had no memory of having seen any other human face than her father's . 
These gentle spirits were ever after obedient to the will of Prospero . 
Of these Ariel was the chief . 
would come slily and pinch him , and sometimes tumble him down in the mire and then Ariel , in the likeness of an ape , would make mouths at him . 
Then swiftly changing his shape , in the likeness of a hedgehog , he would lie tumbling in Caliban's way , who feared the hedgehog's sharp quills would prick his bare feet . 
With a variety of suchlike vexatious tricks Ariel would often torment him , whenever Caliban neglected the work which Prospero commanded him to do . 
Having these powerful spirits obedient to his will , Prospero could by their means command the winds , and the waves of the sea . 
'O my dear father , said she , 'if by your art you have raised this dreadful storm , have pity on their sad distress . 
See ! the vessel will be dashed to pieces . 
Poor souls ! they will all perish . 
If I had power , I would sink the sea beneath the earth , rather than the good ship should be destroyed , with all the precious souls within her . 
'Be not so amazed , daughter Miranda , said Prospero 'there is no harm done . 
I have so ordered it , that no person in the ship shall receive any hurt . 
What I have done has been in care of you , my dear child . 
'Certainly I can , sir , replied Miranda . 
'By what ? asked Prospero 'by any other house or person ? Tell me what you can remember , my child . 
Miranda said 'It seems to me like the recollection of a dream . 
But had I not once four or Eve women who attended upon me ? Prospero answered 'You had , and more . 
How is it that this still lives in your mind ? Do you remember how you came here ? 'No , sir , said Miranda , 'I remember nothing more . 
'Twelve years ago , Miranda , continued Prospero , 'I was duke of Milan , and you were a princess , and my only heir . 
I , neglecting all worldly ends , buried among my books , did dedicate my whole time to the bettering of my mind . 
My brother Antonio being thus in possession of my power , began to think himself the duke indeed . 
Your innocent smiles made me bear up against my misfortunes . 
Our food lasted till we landed on this desert island , since when my chief delight has been in teaching you , Miranda , and well have you profited by my instructions . 
Not a hair of his head is injured , and his princely garments , though drenched in the sea waves , look fresher than before . 
'That's my delicate Ariel , said Prospero . 
'Bring him hither my daughter must see this young prince . 
Where is the king , and my brother ? 'I left them , answered Ariel , 'searching for Ferdinand , whom they have little hopes of finding , thinking they saw him perish . 
Of the ship's crew not one is missing though each one thinks himself the only one saved and the ship , though invisible to them , is safe in the harbour . 
'Ariel , said Prospero , 'thy charge is faithfully performed but there is more work yet . 
'Is there more work ? said Ariel . 
'Let me remind you , master , you have promised me my liberty . 
I pray , remember , I have done you worthy service , told you no lies , made no mistakes , served you without grudge or grumbling . 
'How now ! said Prospero . 
'You do not recollect what a torment I freed you from . 
Have you forgot the wicked witch Sycorax , who with age and envy was almost bent double ? Where was she born ? Speak tell me . 
'Sir , in Algiers , said Ariel . 
'O was she so ? said Prospero . 
'I must recount what you have been , which I find you do not remember . 
This torment , remember , I did free you from . 
'Pardon me , dear master , said Ariel , ashamed to seem ungrateful 'I will obey your commands . 
'Do so , said Prospero , 'and I will set you free . 
'O my young gentleman , said Ariel , when he saw him , 'I will soon move you . 
You must be brought , I find , for the Lady Miranda to have a sight of your pretty person . 
Come , sir , follow me . 
He then began singing 'Full fathom five thy father lies . 
Of his bones are coral made Those are pearls that were his eyes Nothing of him that doth fade , But doth suffer a sea change Into something rich and strange . 
Sea nymphs hourly ring his knell Hark ! now I hear them , Ding dong , bell . 
This strange news of his lost father soon roused the prince from the stupid fit into which he had fallen . 
He followed in amazement the sound of Ariel's voice , till it led him to Prospero and Miranda , who were sitting under the shade of a large tree . 
Now Miranda had never seen a man before , except her own father . 
'Miranda , said Prospero , 'tell me what you are looking at yonder . 
'O father , said Miranda , in a strange surprise , 'surely that is a spirit . 
Lord ! how it looks about ! Believe me , sir , it is a beautiful creature . 
Is it not a spirit ? 'No , girl , answered her father 'it eats , and sleeps , and has senses such as we have . 
This young man you see was in the ship . 
He is somewhat altered by grief , or you might call him a handsome person . 
He has lost his companions , and is wandering about to find them . 
She timidly answered , she was no goddess , but a simple maid , and was going to give him an account of herself , when Prospero interrupted her . 
'Follow me , said he , 'I will tie you neck and feet together . 
You shall drink sea water shell lush , withered roots , and husks of acorns shall be your food . 
Miranda hung upon her father , saying 'Why are you so ungentle ? Have pity , sir I will be his surety . 
This is the second man I ever saw , and to me he seems a true one . 
I tell you , foolish girl , most men as far excel this , as he does Caliban . 
This he said to prove his daughter's constancy and she replied 'My affections are most humble . 
I have no wish to see a goodlier man . 
'Come on , young man , said Prospero to the prince 'you have no power to disobey me . 
Prospero had commanded Ferdinand to pile up some heavy logs of wood . 
Kings' sons not being much used to laborious work , Miranda soon after found her lover almost dying with fatigue . 
'Alas ! said she , 'do not work so hard my father is at his studies , he is safe for these three hours pray rest yourself . 
'O my dear lady , said Ferdinand , 'I dare not . 
I must finish my task before I take my rest . 
'If you will sit down , said Miranda , 'I will carry your logs the while . 
But this Ferdinand would by no means agree to . 
Instead of a help Miranda became a hindrance , for they began a long conversation , so that the business of log carrying went on very slowly . 
Ferdinand inquired her name , which she told , saying it was against her father's express command she did so . 
And he listened well pleased to a long speech of Ferdinand's , in which he professed to love her above all the ladies he ever saw . 
But , sir , I fear I talk to you too freely , and my father's precepts I forget . 
At this Prospero smiled , and nodded his head , as much as to say 'This goes on exactly as I could wish my girl will be queen of Naples . 
, told the innocent Miranda he was heir to the crown of Naples , and that she should be his queen . 
'Ah ! sir , said she , 'I am a fool to weep at what I am glad of . 
I will answer you in plain and holy innocence . 
I am your wife if you will marry me . 
Prospero prevented Ferdinand's thanks by appearing visible before them . 
'Fear nothing , my child , said he 'I have overheard , and approve of all you have said . 
And , Ferdinand , if I have too severely used you , I will make you rich amends , by giving you my daughter . 
All your vexations were but trials of your love , and you have nobly stood the test . 
Then as my gift , which your true love has worthily purchased , take my daughter , and do not smile that I boast she is above all praise . 
When Prospero left them , he called his spirit Ariel , who quickly appeared before him , eager to relate what he had done with Prospero's brother and the king of Naples . 
Ariel said he had left them almost out of their senses with fear , at the strange things he had caused them to see and hear . 
Grief and terror had so stupefied their senses , that they did not know Prospero . 
He first discovered himself to the good old Gonzalo , calling him the preserver of his life and then his brother and the king knew that he was the injured Prospero . 
Nothing could exceed the joy of the father and the son at this unexpected meeting , for they each thought the other drowned in the storm . 
'O wonder ! said Miranda , 'what noble creatures these are ! It must surely be a brave world that has such people in it . 
The king of Naples was almost as much astonished at the beauty and excellent graces of the young Miranda , as his son had been . 
'Who is this maid ? said he 'she seems the goddess that has parted us , and brought us thus together . 
'Then I must be her father , said the king 'but oh ! how oddly will it sound , that I must ask my child forgiveness . 
'No more of that , said Prospero 'let us not remember our troubles past , since they so happily have ended . 
was the only attendant he had to wait upon him . 
'My quaint Ariel , said Prospero to the little sprite when he made him free , 'I shall miss you yet you shall have your freedom . 
On the bat's back I do fly After summer merrily . 
Merrily , merrily shall I live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough . 
Prospero then buried deep in the earth his magical books and wand , for he was resolved never more to make use of the magic art . 
And having thus overcome his enemies . 
At which place , under the safe convoy of the spirit Ariel , they , after a pleasant voyage , soon arrived . 
Egeus demanded justice of Theseus , and desired that this cruel law might be put in force against his daughter . 
, he proposed to Hermia that she should steal out of her father's house that night , and go with him to his aunt's house , where he would marry her . 
To this proposal Hermia joyfully agreed and she told no one of her intended flight but her friend Helena . 
The wood in which Lysander and Hermia proposed to meet was the favourite haunt of those little beings known by the name of Fairies . 
Oberon the king , and Titania the queen of the fairies , with all their tiny train of followers , in this wood held their midnight revels . 
'I'll met by moonlight , proud Titania , said the fairy king . 
The queen replied 'What , jealous Oberon , is it you ? Fairies , skip hence I have foresworn his company . 
'Tarry , rash fairy , said Oberon 'am not I thy lord ? Why does Titania cross her Oberon ? Give me your little changeling boy to be my page . 
Set your heart at rest , answered the queen 'your whole fairy kingdom buys not the boy of me . 
She then left her lord in great anger . 
'Well , go your way , said Oberon 'before the morning dawns I will torment you for this injury . 
Oberon then sent for Puck , his chief favourite and privy counsellor . 
to the mercy of the wild beasts , and she ran after him as swiftly as she could . 
You will know the man by the Athenian garments which he wears . 
Puck promised to manage this matter very dexterously and then Oberon went , unperceived by Titania , to her bower , where she was reparing to go to rest . 
Her fairy bower was a bank , where grew wild thyme , cowslips , and sweet violets , under a canopy of wood bine , musk roses , and eglantine . 
There Titania always slept some part of the night her coverlet the enamelled skin of a snake , which , though a small mantle , was wide enough to wrap a fairy in . 
He found Titania giving orders to her fairies , how they were to employ themselves while she slept . 
Then they began to sing this song 'You spotted snakes with double tongue , Thorny hedgehogs , be not seen Newts and blind worms do no wrong Come not near our Fairy Queen . 
When the fairies had sung their queen asleep with this pretty lullaby , they left her to perform the important services she had enjoined them . 
Oberon then softly drew near his Titania , and dropped some of the love juice on her eyelids , saying 'What thou seest when thou wake Do it for thy true love take . 
But to return to Hermia , who made her escape out of her father's house that night , to avoid the death she was doomed to for refusing to marry Demetrius . 
Helena soon lost sight of Demetrius and as she was wandering about , dejected and forlorn , she arrived at the place where Lysander was sleeping . 
that Lysander was making a jest of her . 
Saying these words in great anger , she ran away and Lysander followed her , quite forgetful of his own Hermia , who was still asleep . 
When Hermia awoke , she was in a sad fright at finding herself alone . 
She wandered about the wood , not knowing what was become of Lysander , or which way to go to seek for him . 
In the meantime Demetrius , not being able to find Hermia and his rival Lysander , and fatigued with his fruitless search , was observed by Oberon fast asleep . 
made his appearance and then Lysander and Demetrius , both speaking together , made love to Helena , they being each one under the influence of the same potent charm . 
The astonished Helena thought that Demetrius , Lysander , and her once dear friend Hermia , were all in a plot together to make a jest of her . 
The ladies , who before had always been the dearest of friends , now fell to high words together . 
Unkind Hermia , to join with men in scorning your poor friend . 
I am amazed at your passionate words , said Hermia I scorn you not it seems you scorn me . 
If you had any pity , grace , or manners , you would not use me thus . 
While Helena and Hermia were speaking these angry words to each other , Demetrius and Lysander left them , to fight together in the wood for the love of Helena . 
When they found the gentlemen had left them , they departed , and once more wandered weary in the wood in search of their lovers . 
'You heard , said Oberon , 'that Demetrius and Lysander are gone to seek a convenient place to fight in . 
I command you to overhang the night with a thick fog , and lead these quarrelsome lovers so astray in the dark , that they shall not be able to kind each other . 
Counterfeit each of their voices to the other , and with bitter taunts provoke them to follow you , while they think it is their rival's tongue they hear . 
About this quickly , Puck , and I will go and see what sweet love my Titania has found . 
'Out of the wood do not desire to go , said the enamoured queen . 
'I am a spirit of no common rate . 
Go with me , and I will give you fairies to attend upon you . 
She then called four of her fairies their names were , Pease blossom , Cobweb , Moth , and Mustard seed . 
'Here , sir , said little Pease blossom . 
'Scratch my head , said the clown . 
'Where is Cobweb ? 'Here , sir , said Cobweb . 
'Good Mr. Cobweb , said the foolish clown , 'kill me the red humble bee on the top of that thistle yonder and , good Mr. Cobweb , bring me the honey bag . 
Do not fret yourself too much in the action , Mr. Cobweb , and take care the honey bag break not I should be sorry to have you overflown with a honey bag . 
'My sweet love , said the queen , 'what will you have to eat ? I have a venturous fairy shall seek the squirrel's hoard , and fetch you some new nuts . 
'I had rather have a handful of dried pease , said the clown , who with his ass's head had got an ass's appetite . 
'But , I pray , let none of your people disturb me , for I have a mind to sleep . 
'Sleep , then , said the queen , 'and I will wind you in my arms . 
This she could not deny , as the clown was then sleeping within her arms , with his ass's head crowned by her with flowers . 
Oberon likewise took the ass's head from off the clown , and left him to finish his nap with his own fool's head upon his shoulders . 
Hermia first awoke , and finding her lost Lysander asleep so near her , was looking at him and wondering at his strange inconstancy . 
THE WINTER'S TALE Leontes , king of Sicily , and his queen , the beautiful and virtuous Hermione , once lived in the greatest harmony together . 
At length , after repeated invitations , Polixenes came from Bohemia to the Sicilian court , to make his friend Leontes a visit . 
At first this visit gave nothing but pleasure to Leontes . 
He recommended the friend of his youth to the queen's particular attention , and seemed in the presence of his dear friend and old companion to have his felicity quite completed . 
They talked over old times their schooldays and their youthful pranks were remembered , and recounted to Hermione , who always took a cheerful part in these conversations . 
When , after a long stay , Polixenes was preparing to depart , Hermione , at the desire of her husband , joined her entreaties to his that Polixenes would prolong his visit . 
Sending for Camillo , one of the lords of his court , and telling him of the suspicion he entertained , he commanded him to poison Polixenes . 
'And tell her , said Paulina , 'that I will speak boldly to Leontes in her defence . 
But Paulina's spirited remonstrances only aggravated Leontes' displeasure , and he ordered her husband Antigonus to take her from his presence . 
Paulina soon returned , and told the king that Hermione was dead . 
The ship in which Antigonus carried the infant princess out to sea was driven by a storm upon the coast of Bohemia , the very kingdom of the good king Polixenes . 
Here Antigonus landed , and here he left the little baby . 
This poor deserted baby was found by a shepherd . 
He brought up Perdita as his own child , and she knew not she was any other than a shepherd's daughter . 
Polixenes , the king of Bohemia , had an only son , whose name was Florizel . 
He soon , under the name of Doricles , and in the disguise of a private gentleman , became a constant visitor at the old shepherd's house . 
Florizel's frequent absences from court alarmed Polixenes and setting people to watch his son , he discovered his love for the shepherd's fair daughter . 
Nothing but mirth and jollity was going forward . 
Tables were spread , and great preparations were making for the rustic feast . 
The king was so disguised that it was impossible his son could know him he therefore advanced near enough to hear the conversation . 
Pamillo replied 'Indeed she is the very queen of curds and cream . 
'Pray , my good friend , said the king to the old shepherd , what fair swain is that talking with your daughter ? 'They call him Doricles , replied the shepherd . 
'He says he loves my daughter and , to speak truth , there is not a kiss to choose which loves the other best . 
Polixenes then addressed his son . 
'How now , young man ! said he 'your heart seems full of something that takes off your mind from feasting . 
When I was young , I used to load my love with presents but you have let the pedlar go , and have bought your lass no toy . 
Florizel then called upon the old stranger to be a witness to a solemn promise of marriage which he made to Perdita , saying to Polixenes 'I pray you , mark our contract . 
'Mark your divorce , young sir , said the king , discovering himself . 
The king then left them in great wrath , and ordered Camillo to follow him with prince Florizel . 
Then sorrowfully she said 'But now I am awakened from this dream , I will queen it no further . 
Leave me , sir I will go milk my ewes and weep . 
To this proposal they joyfully agreed and Camillo , who conducted everything relative to their flight , allowed the old shepherd to go along with them . 
The shepherd took with him the remainder of Perdita's jewels , her baby clothes , and the paper which he had found pinned to her mantle . 
After a prosperous voyage , Florizel and Perdita , Camillo and the old shepherd , arrived in safety at the court of Leontes . 
Leontes , who still mourned his dead Hermione and his lost child , received Camillo with great kindness , and gave a cordial welcome to prince Florizel . 
Thither then they all went the king anxious to see the semblance of his Hermione , and Perdita longing to behold what the mother she never saw did look like . 
'I like your silence , my liege , said Paulina , 'it the more shows your wonder . 
Is not this statue very like your queen ? At length the king said 'O , thus she stood , even with such majesty , when I first wooed her . 
But yet , Paulina , Hermione was not so aged as this statue looks . 
Paulina replied 'So much the more the carver's excellence , who has made the statue as Hermione would have looked had she been living now . 
But let me draw the curtain , sire , lest presently you think it moves . 
The king then said 'Do not draw the curtain would I were dead ! See , Camillo , would you not think it breathed ? Her eye seems to have motion in it . 
'I must draw the curtain , my liege , said Paulina . 
'You are so transported , you will persuade yourself the statue lives . 
'O , sweet Paulina , said Leontes , 'make me think so twenty years together ! Still methinks there is an air comes from her . 
What fine chisel could ever yet cut breath ? Let no man mock me , for I will kiss her . 
'Good my lord , forbear ! said Paulina . 
'The ruddiness upon her lip is wet you will stain your own with oily painting . 
Shall I draw the curtain ? 'No , not these twenty years , said Leontes . 
'Either forbear this transport , said Paulina to Leontes , 'and let me draw the curtain or prepare yourself for more amazement . 
I can make the statue move indeed ay , and descend from off the pedestal , and take you by the hand . 
But then you will think , which I protest I am not , that I am assisted by some wicked powers . 
'What you can make her do , said the astonished king , 'I am content to hear for it is as easy to make her speak as move . 
The statue then began to speak , praying for blessings on her husband , and on her child , the newly found Perdita . 
No wonder that the statue hung upon Leontes' neck , and blessed her husband and her child . 
No wonder for the statue was indeed Hermione herself , the real , the living queen . 
His dead queen thus restored to life , his lost daughter found , the long sorrowing Leontes could scarcely support the excess of his own happiness . 
Nothing but congratulations and affectionate speeches were heard on all sides . 
Now the delighted parents thanked prince Florizel for loving their lowly seeming daughter and now they blessed the good old shepherd for preserving their child . 
Greatly did Camillo and Paulina rejoice that they had lived to see so good an end of all their faithful services . 
And as if nothing should be wanting to complete this strange and unlooked for joy , king Polixenes himself now entered the palace . 
And there was no fear that Polixenes would now oppose his son's marriage with Perdita . 
She was no 'sheep hook' now , but the heiress of the crown of Sicily . 
Thus have we seen the patient virtues of the long suffering Hermione rewarded . 
That excellent lady lived many years with her Leontes and her Perdita , the happiest of mothers and of queens . 
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING There lived in the palace at Messina two ladies , whose names were Hero and Beatrice . 
Hero was the daughter , and Beatrice the niece , of Leonato , the governor of Messina . 
Beatrice was of a lively temper , and loved to divert her cousin Hero , who was of a more serious disposition , with her sprightly sallies . 
Whatever was going forward was sure to make matter of mirth for the light hearted Beatrice . 
These strangers had been at Messina before , and the hospitable governor introduced them to his daughter and his niece as their old friends and acquaintance . 
Benedick , the moment he entered the room , began a lively conversation with Leonato and the prince . 
Beatrice , who liked not to be left out of any discourse , interrupted Benedick with saying 'I wonder that you will still be talking , signior Benedick nobody marks you . 
This sarcasm sunk deeper into the mind of Benedick than all Beatrice had said before . 
, the prince was highly amused with listening to the humorous dialogue between Benedick and Beatrice and he said in a whisper to Leonato 'This is a pleasant spirited young lady . 
She were an excellent wife for Benedick . 
Leonato replied to this suggestion 'O , my lord , my lord , if they were but a week married , they would talk themselves mad . 
But though Leonato thought they would make a discordant pair , the prince did not give up the idea of matching these two keen wits together . 
Claudio's confession of his love for Hero so wrought upon the prince , that he lost no time in soliciting the consent of Leonato to accept of Claudio for a son in law . 
What was it you told me the other day that your niece Beatrice was in love with signior Benedick ? I did never think that lady would have loved any man . 
'No , nor I neither , my lord . 
'It is most wonderful that she should so dote on Benedick , whom she in all outward behaviour seemed ever to dislike . 
The prince affected to hearken to all this with great compassion for Beatrice , and he said 'It were good that Benedick were told of this . 
'To what end ? said Claudio 'he would but make sport of it , and torment the poor lady worse . 
Then the prince motioned to his companions that they should walk on , and leave Benedick to meditate upon what he had overheard . 
Love me ! Why it must be requited ! I did never think to marry . 
But when I said I should die a bachelor , I did not think I should live to be married . 
They say the lady is virtuous and fair . 
And wise in everything but loving me . 
Why , that is no great argument of her folly . 
By this day , she is a fair lady . 
I do spy some marks of love in her . 
Beatrice now approached him , and said with her usual tartness 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner . 
If I do not love her , I am a Jew . 
I will go get her picture . 
Whisper in her ear , that I and Ursula are walking in the orchard , and that our discourse is all of her . 
Bid her steal into that pleasant arbour , where honeysuckles , ripened by the sun , like ungrateful minions , forbid the sun to enter . 
This arbour , into which Hero desired Margaret to entice Beatrice , was the very same pleasant arbour where Benedick had so lately been an attentive listener . 
'I will make her come , I warrant , presently , said Margaret . 
My talk to you must be how Benedick is in love with Beatrice . 
Now begin for look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs close by the ground , to hear our conference . 
They then began Hero saying , as if in answer to something which Ursula had said 'No , truly , Ursula . 
She is too disdainful her spirits are as coy as wild birds of the rock . 
'Certainly , replied Ursula , 'it were not good she knew his love , lest she made sport of it . 
'Sure , sure , such carping is not commendable , said Ursula . 
'No , replied Hero , 'but who dare tell her so ? If I should speak , she would mock me into air . 
'O ! you wrong your cousin , said Ursula 'she cannot be so much without true judgment , as to refuse so rare a gentleman as signior Benedick . 
'He hath an excellent good name , said Hero 'indeed , he is the first man in Italy , always excepting my dear Claudio . 
But a sad reverse in the fortunes of Hero must now be thought of . 
The morrow , which was to have been her wedding day , brought sorrow on the heart of Hero and her good father Leonato . 
The prince had a half brother , who came from the wars along with him to Messina . 
was a melancholy , discontented man , whose spirits seemed to labour in the contriving of villanies . 
Don John then went to the prince and Claudio , and told them that Hero was an imprudent lady , and that she talked with men from her chamber window at midnight . 
The prince also said 'And as I assisted you to obtain her , I will join with you to disgrace her . 
Leonato , upon my honour , myself , my brother , and this grieved Claudio , did see and hear her last night at midnight talk with a man at her chamber window . 
Benedick , in astonishment at what he heard , said 'This looks not like a nuptial . 
'True , O God ! replied the heart struck Hero and then this hapless lady sunk down in a fainting fit , to all appearance dead . 
The prince and Claudio left the church , without staying to see if Hero would recover , or at all regarding the distress into which they had thrown Leonato . 
So hard hearted had their anger made them . 
When Claudio shall hear she died upon hearing his words , the idea of her life shall sweetly creep into his imagination . 
Then shall he mourn , if ever love had interest in his heart , and wish that he had not so accused her yea , though he thought his accusation true . 
Leonato , thus persuaded , yielded and he said sorrowfully 'I am so grieved , that the smallest twine may lead me . 
Benedick was the first who spoke , and he said 'Lady Beatrice , have you wept all this while ? 'Yea , and I will weep a while longer , said Beatrice . 
'Surely , said Benedick , 'I do believe your fair cousin is wronged . 
I confess nothing , nor I deny nothing . 
I am sorry for my cousin . 
'By my sword , said Benedick , 'you love me , and I protest I love you . 
Come , bid me do anything for you . 
'Kill Claudio , said Beatrice . 
'Ha ! not for the wide world , said Benedick for he loved his friend Claudio , and he believed he had been imposed upon . 
'Is not Claudio a villain , that has slandered , scorned , and dishonoured my cousin ? said Beatrice 'O that I were a man ! 'Hear me , Beatrice ! said Benedick . 
I cannot be a man with wishing , therefore I will die a woman with grieving . 
'Tarry , good Beatrice , said Benedick 'by this hand I love you . 
'Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it , said Beatrice . 
'Think you on your soul that Claudio has wronged Hero ? asked Benedick . 
'Yea , answered Beatrice 'as sure as I have a thought , or a soul . 
'Enough , said Benedick 'I am engaged I will challenge him . 
I will kiss your hand , and so leave you . 
By tints hand , Claudio shall render me a dear account ! As you hear from me , so think of me . 
Go , comfort your cousin . 
But they respected his age and his sorrow , and they said 'Nay , do not quarrel with us , good old man . 
While the prince and Claudio were yet talking of the challenge of Benedick , a magistrate brought Borachio as a prisoner before the prince . 
Borachio had been overheard talking with one of his companions of the mischief he had been employed by Don John to do . 
The penance Leonato enjoined him was , to marry the next morning a cousin of Hero's , who , he said , was now his heir , and in person very like Hero . 
And Claudio said to the lady in the mask 'Give me your hand , before this holy friar I am your husband , if you will marry me . 
, but Leonato's very daughter , the lady Hero herself . 
there reigned in one of these provinces an usurper , who had deposed and banished his elder brother , the lawful duke . 
In those times wrestling , which is only practiced now by country clowns , was a favourite sport even in the courts of princes , and before fair ladies and princesses . 
To this wrestling match , therefore , Celia and Rosalind went . 
Speak to him , ladies , and see if you can move him . 
And now the wrestling match began . 
Celia wished the young stranger might not be hurt but Rosalind felt most for him . 
The duke Frederick was much pleased with the courage and skill shown by this young stranger and desired to know his name and parentage , meaning to take him under his protection . 
The stranger said his name was Orlando , and that he was the youngest son of Sir Roland de Boys . 
I am out of suits with fortune , or I would give you a more valuable present . 
Frederick replied 'She is too subtle for you her smoothness , her very silence , and her patience speak to the people , and they pity her . 
with her manly garb seemed to have put on a manly courage . 
Now , it was this cruel brother's neglect of him which made Orlando say he wished to die , being so friendless . 
He was overheard making this vow by one that had been an old and faithful servant to their father , and that loved Orlando because he resembled Sir Rowland . 
Orlando , wondering what all this meant , asked him what was the matter . 
'O good old man ! said Orlando , 'how well appears in you the constant service of the old world ! You are not for the fashion of these times . 
We will go along together , and before your youthful wages are spent , I shall light upon some means for both our maintenance . 
They wandered on , seeking some human habitation , till they were almost spent with hunger and fatigue . 
Orlando hearing him speak so gently , put up his sword , and blushed with shame at the rude manner in which he had demanded their food . 
'Go , find him out , and bring him hither , said the duke 'we will forbear to eat till you return . 
If I could find this lover , I would give him some good counsel that would soon cure him of his love . 
Orlando confessed that he was the fond lover of whom he spoke , and asked Ganymede to give him the good counsel he talked of . 
It does not appear , however , that Ganymede made any progress in curing Orlando of his love for Rosalind . 
Ganymede met the duke one day , and had some talk with him , and the duke asked of what parentage he came . 
Ganymede answered that he came of as good parentage as he did , which made the duke smile , for he did not suspect the pretty shepherd boy came of royal lineage . 
Then seeing the duke look well and happy , Ganymede was content to put off all further explanation for a few days longer . 
One morning , as Orlando was going to visit Ganymede , he saw a man lying asleep on the ground , and a large green snake had twisted itself about his neck . 
The snake , seeing Orlando approach , glided away among the bushes . 
'So I do , replied Ganymede , truly , 'but I should have been a woman by right . 
'You have my consent , said Orlando . 
'Let your wedding be to morrow , and I will invite the duke and his friends . 
Go and persuade your shepherdess to this she is now alone , for look , here comes her brother . 
Oliver went to Aliena and Ganymede , whom Orlando had perceived approaching , came to inquire after the health of his wounded friend . 
The fond lover Orlando , half believing and half doubting what he heard , asked Ganymede if he spoke in sober meaning . 
The next morning , Oliver having obtained the consent of Aliena , they came into the presence of the duke , and with them also came Orlando . 
'That I would , said the duke , 'if I had kingdoms to give with her . 
Ganymede then said to Orlando 'And you say you will marry her if I bring her here . 
'That I would , said Orlando , 'if I were king of many kingdoms . 
While they were gone , the duke said to Orlando , that he thought the shepherd Ganymede very like his daughter Rosalind and Orlando said , he also had observed the resemblance . 
The duke ratified the consent he had already given to the marriage and Orlando and Rosalind , Oliver and Celia , were married at the same time . 
Thenceforward he became a true penitent , and resolved , relinquishing his unjust dominion , to spend the remainder of his days in a religious house . 
to offer to restore to him his dukedom , which he had usurped so long , and with it the lands and revenues of his friends , the faithful followers of his adversity . 
This joyful news , as unexpected as it was welcome , came opportunely to heighten the festivity and rejoicings at the wedding of the princesses . 
THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA There lived in the city of Verona two young gentlemen , whose names were Valentine and Proteus , between whom a firm and uninterrupted friendship had long subsisted . 
the free and happy life he led , to the anxious hopes and fears of the lover Proteus . 
One morning Valentine came to Proteus to tell him that they must for a time be separated , for that he was going to Milan . 
Proteus , unwilling to part with his friend , used many arguments to prevail upon Valentine not to leave him but Valentine said 'Cease to persuade me , my loving Proteus . 
I will not , like a sluggard , wear out my youth in idleness at home . 
Home keeping youths have ever homely wits . 
'Sweet Valentine , adieu ! said Proteus 'think on me , when you see some rare object worthy of notice in your travels , and wish me partaker of your happiness . 
And when Lucetta offered the letter to Julia , she would not receive it , and chid her maid for taking letters from Proteus , and ordered her to leave the room . 
Julia then began to piece together as well as she could the torn fragments . 
'How now ! said the old gentleman 'what letter are you reading there ? 'My lord , replied Proteus , 'it is a letter from my friend Valentine , at Milan . 
'Lend me the letter , said his father 'let me see what news . 
'And how stand you affected to his wish ? asked the father . 
'As one relying on your lordship's will , and not depending on his friendly wish , said Proteus . 
Your son is fit for any of these things , and it will be a great disadvantage to him in his riper age not to have travelled in his youth . 
To morrow be in readiness to go . 
Make no excuses for I am peremptory . 
Silvia despised this Thurio , for he had none of the fine sense and excellent qualities of Valentine . 
'Welcome him then according to his worth , said the duke . 
'Silvia , I speak to you , and you , Sir Thurio for Valentine , I need not bid him do so . 
They were here interrupted by the entrance of Proteus , and Valentine introduced him to Silvia , saying 'Sweet lady , entertain him to be my fellow servant to your ladyship . 
I know you joy not in a love discourse . 
'Ay , Proteus , returned Valentine , 'but that life is altered now . 
I have done penance for condemning love . 
For in revenge of my contempt of love , love has chased sleep from my enthralled eyes . 
I now like no discourse except it be of love . 
Now I can break my fast , dine , sup , and sleep , upon the very name of love . 
This acknowledgment of the change which love had made in the disposition of Valentine was a great triumph to his friend Proteus . 
He then told all he had heard from Valentine , not omitting the ladder of ropes , and the manner in which Valentine meant to conceal them under a long cloak . 
Now this falsehood of Valentine's had no better success in the event than the untruth Proteus told his father . 
'Be they of much import ? said the duke . 
'No more , my lord , said Valentine , 'than to tell my father I am well and happy at your grace's court . 
'Nay then , said the duke , 'no matter stay with me a while . 
I wish your counsel about some affairs that concern me nearly . 
And I may say to thee , this pride of hers has drawn my love from her . 
I had thought my age should have been cherished by her childlike duty . 
I now am resolved to take a wife , and turn her out to whosoever will take her in . 
Let her beauty be her wedding dower , for me and my possessions she esteems not . 
Besides , the fashion of courtship is much changed since I was young now I would willingly have you to be my tutor to instruct me how I am to woo . 
'Why then , said Valentine , 'you must visit her by night . 
'But at night , said the artful duke , who was now coming to the drift of his discourse , 'her doors are fast locked . 
She gladly accepted the offer of the host to go with him , and hear the music for she secretly hoped she might meet Proteus by the way . 
I love thee , gentle youth , for pitying her , poor lady ! Here is a purse I give it you for Julia's sake . 
These comfortable words coming from her kind rival's tongue cheered the drooping heart of the disguised lady . 
Valentine , who cared little what became of himself , said he would consent to live with them and be their captain , provided they did no outrage on women or poor passengers . 
She had to pass through the forest where Valentine and the banditti dwelt and one of these robbers seized on Silvia , and would also have taken Eglamour , but he escaped . 
Silvia found little comfort in hearing she was going to be carried as a prisoner before the captain of a lawless banditti . 
When Julia recovered from the fainting kit , she said 'I had forgot , my master ordered me to deliver this ring to Silvia . 
Thurio first approached , and attempted to seize Silvia , saying 'Silvia is mine . 
Upon this Valentine said to him in a very spirited manner 'Thurio , keep back if once again you say that Silvia is yours , you shall embrace your death . 
Here she stands , take but possession of her with a torch ! I dare you but to breathe upon my love . 
Then turning to Valentine , he said 'I do applaud your spirit Valentine , and think you worthy of an empress's love . 
You shall have Silvia , for you have well deserved her . 
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE Shylock , the Jew , lived at Venice he was an usurer , who had amassed an immense fortune by lending money at great interest to Christian merchants . 
, he used to reproach him with his usuries and hard dealings , which the Jew would bear with seeming patience , while he secretly meditated revenge . 
Whenever Bassanio wanted money , Antonio assisted him and it seemed as if they had but one heart and one purse between them . 
Well then , it now appears you need my help and you come to me , and say , Shylock , lend me monies . 
Antonio replied 'I am as like to call you so again , to spit on you again , and spurn you too . 
'Why , look you , said Shylock , 'how you storm ! I would be friends with you , and have your love . 
I will forget the shames you have put upon me . 
I will supply your wants , and take no interest for my money . 
'Content , said Antonio 'I will sign to this bond , and say there is much kindness in the Jew . 
Shylock , hearing this debate , exclaimed 'O , father Abraham , what suspicious people these Christians are ! Their own hard dealings teach them to suspect the thoughts of others . 
I say , to buy his favour I offer this friendship if he will take it , so if not , adieu . 
Bassanio proving successful in his suit , Portia in a short time consented to accept of him for a husband . 
'With all my heart , Gratiano , said Bassanio , 'if you can get a wife . 
Gratiano then said that he loved the lady Portia's fair waiting gentlewoman Nerissa , and that she had promised to be his wife , if her lady married Bassanio . 
Portia asked Nerissa if this was true . 
Nerissa replied 'Madam , it is so , if you approve of it . 
Portia willingly consenting , Bassanio pleasantly said 'Then our wedding feast shall be much honoured by your marriage , Gratiano . 
The happiness of these lovers was sadly crossed at this moment by the entrance of a messenger , who brought a letter from Antonio containing fearful tidings . 
The day of payment being past , the cruel Jew would not accept of the money which Bassanio offered him , but insisted upon having a pound of Antonio's flesh . 
A day was appointed to try this shocking cause before the duke of Venice , and Bassanio awaited in dreadful suspense the event of the trial . 
When the messenger returned , he brought letters from Bellario of advice how to proceed , and also everything necessary for her equipment . 
might be permitted to plead in his stead . 
This the duke granted , much wondering at the youthful appearance of the stranger , who was prettily disguised by her counsellor's robes and her large wig . 
And now began this important trial . 
Portia looked around her , and she knew the merciless Jew and she saw Bassanio , but he knew her not in her disguise . 
He was standing beside Antonio , in an agony of distress and fear for his friend . 
Shylock only answered her by desiring to have the penalty forfeited in the bond . 
'Is he not able to pay the money ? asked Portia . 
But Portia gravely answered , that laws once established must never be altered . 
Then she said to Shylock 'Be merciful take the money , and bid me tear the bond . 
But no mercy would the cruel Shylock show and he said 'By my soul I swear , there is no power in the tongue of men to alter me . 
Then he said to Bassanio 'Give me your hand , Bassanio ! Fare you well ! Grieve not that I am fallen into this misfortune for you . 
'It is well you wish this behind her back , else you would have but an unquiet house , said Nerissa . 
Shylock now cried out impatiently 'We trifle time I pray pronounce the sentence . 
And now all was awful expectation in the court , and every heart was full of grief for Antonio . 
Portia asked if the scales were ready to weigh the flesh and she said to the Jew 'Shylock , you must have some surgeon by , lest he bleed to death . 
Shylock , whose whole intent was that Antonio should bleed to death , said 'It is not so named in the bond . 
Portia replied 'It is not so named in the bond , but what of that ? It were good you did so much for charity . 
To this all the answer Shylock would make was 'I cannot find it it is not in the bond . 
'Then , said Portia , 'a pound of Antonio's flesh is shine . 
The law allows it , and the court awards it . 
And you may cut this flesh from off his breast . 
The law allows it and the court awards it . 
This bond here gives you no drop of blood the words expressly are a pound of flesh . 
If in the cutting off the pound of flesh you shed one drop of Christian blood , your lands and goods are by the law to be confiscated to the state of Venice . 
'Give me my money , and let me go , said Shylock . 
'I have it ready , said Bassanio 'here it is . 
Shylock was going to take the money , when Portia again stopped him , saying 'Tarry , Jew I have yet another hold upon you . 
The Jew agreed to this and being thus disappointed in his revenge , and despoiled of his riches , he said 'I am ill . 
Let me go home send the deed after me , and I will sign over half my riches to my daughter . 
The duke now released Antonio , and dismissed the court . 
He then highly praised the wisdom and ingenuity of the young counsellor , and invited him home to dinner . 
Portia , who meant to return to Belmont before her husband , replied 'I humbly thank your grace , but I must away directly . 
'And we shall stand indebted to you over and above , said Antonio , 'in love and service evermore . 
On this Portia affected to be affronted , and left the court , saying 'You teach me , sir , how a beggar should be answered . 
'A quarrel already ? said Portia . 
'What does the poetry or the value of the ring signify ? said Nerissa . 
'You swore to me when I gave it to you , that you would keep it till the hour of death and now you say you gave it to the lawyer's clerk . 
I know you gave it to a woman . 
Portia said 'You were to blame , Gratiano , to part with your wife's first gift . 
I gave my lord Bassanio a ring , and I am sure he would not part with it for all the world . 
What could I do , sweet Portia ? I was so beset with shame for my seeming ingratitude , that I was forced to send the ring after him . 
Pardon me , good lady had you been there , I think you would have begged the ring of me to give the worthy doctor . 
'Ah ! said Antonio , 'I am the unhappy cause of these quarrels . 
I dare be bound again , my soul upon the forfeit , your lord will never more break his faith with you . 
'Then you shall be his surety , said Portia 'give him this ring , and bid him keep it better than the other . 
while he lived , he'd fear no other thing So sore , as keeping safe Nerissa's ring . 
a king whose name was Cymbeline . 
Cymbeline was twice married his second wife was a wicked , plotting woman , and a cruel stepmother to Imogen , Cymbeline's daughter by his first wife . 
But this design was prevented by Imogen herself , who married without the consent or even knowledge of her father or the queen . 
was the best scholar and most accomplished gentleman of that age . 
His father died fighting in the wars for Cymbeline , and soon after his birth his mother died also for grief at the loss of her husband . 
, and educated him in his own court . 
Nothing could exceed the wrath of Cymbeline , when he heard that his daughter had been so forgetful of her high dignity as to marry a subject . 
He commanded Posthumus to leave Britain , and banished him from his native country for ever . 
Imogen and Posthumus took a most affectionate leave of each other . 
Imogen remained a solitary and dejected lady in her father's court , and Posthumus arrived at Rome , the place he had chosen for his banishment . 
should go to Britain , and endeavour to gain the love of the married Imogen . 
Such firm faith had Posthumus in the fidelity of Imogen , that he thought he ran no hazard in this trial of her honour . 
'This is true , said Posthumus 'but this you might have heard spoken of without seeing . 
'Then the chimney , said Iachimo , 'is south of the chamber , and the chimney piece is Diana bathing never saw I figures livelier expressed . 
'This is a thing you might have likewise heard , said Posthumus , 'for it is much talked of . 
Iachimo as accurately described the roof of the chamber and added 'I had almost forgot her andirons they were two winking Cupids made of silver , each on one foot standing . 
He then took out the bracelet , and said 'Know you this jewel , sir ? She gave me this . 
She took it from her arm . 
I see her yet her pretty action did outsell her gift , and yet enriched it too . 
She gave it me , and said , she prized it once . 
He last of all described the mole he had observed upon her neck . 
Posthumus , who had heard the whole of this artful recital in an agony of doubt , now broke out into the most passionate exclamations against Imogen . 
He delivered up the diamond ring to Iachimo , which he had agreed to forfeit to him , if he obtained the bracelet from Imogen . 
Imogen , who , instead of meeting a loving and beloved husband , found herself doomed by that husband to suffer death , was afflicted beyond measure . 
Providence strangely directed Imogen's steps to the dwelling of her two brothers , who had been stolen away in their infancy . 
At the cave where these youths dwelt it was Imogen's fortune to arrive . 
Seeing this cave , she entered , hoping to find someone within of whom she could procure food . 
Bellarius entered the cave first , and seeing Imogen , stopped them , saying 'Come not in yet it eats our victuals , or I should think it was a fairy . 
'What is the matter , sir ? said the young men . 
'By Jupiter , said Bellarius again , 'there is an angel in the cave , or if not , an earthly paragon . 
So beautiful did Imogen look in her boy's apparel . 
Indeed I have stolen nothing , nor would I , though I had found gold strewed on the floor . 
Here is money for my meat , which I would have left on the board when I had made my meal , and parted with prayers for the provider . 
They refused her money with great earnestness . 
'Whither are you bound ? asked Bellarius , 'and what is your name ? 'Fidele is my name , answered Imogen . 
'I have a kinsman , who is bound for Italy he embarked at Milford Haven , to whom being going , almost spent with hunger , I am fallen into this offence . 
'Prithee , fair youth , said old Bellarius , 'do not think us churls , nor measure our good minds by this rude place we live in . 
You are well encountered it is almost night . 
You shall have better cheer before you depart , and thanks to stay and eat it . 
Boys , bid him welcome . 
When the venison they had taken was all eaten and they were going out to hunt for more . 
Fidele could not accompany them because she was unwell . 
Sorrow , no doubt , for her husband's cruel usage , as well as the fatigue of wandering in the forest , was the cause of her illness . 
They then bid her farewell , and went to their hunt , praising all the way the noble parts and graceful demeanour of the youth Fidele . 
Imogen was no sooner left alone then she recollected the cordial Pisanio had given her , and drank it off , and presently fell into a sound and deathlike sleep . 
Bellarius also proposed to carry her out into the forest , and there celebrate her funeral with songs and solemn dirges , as was then the custom . 
Yea , and the furred moss in winter , when there are no flowers to cover thy sweet corset' When they had finished her funeral obsequies they departed very sorrowful . 
With this army came Posthumus . 
Cymbeline's army now advanced to meet the enemy , and when they entered this forest , Polydore and Cadwal joined the king's army . 
They rescued the king , and saved his life , and so entirely turned the fortune of the day , that the Britons gained the victory . 
Pisanio , being one of the king's attendants , was likewise present . 
The Roman general was the first who spoke the rest stood silent before the king , though there was many a beating heart among them . 
Pisanio knew Imogen , for it was he who had dressed her in the garb of a boy . 
'It is my mistress , thought he 'since she is living , let the time run on to good or bad . 
'The same dead thing alive , said Polydore . 
'Peace , peace , said Bellarius 'if it were he , I am sure he would have spoken to us . 
'But we saw him dead , again whispered Polydore . 
'Be silent , replied Bellarius . 
who spoke to the king . 
and with a Roman heart will suffer death . 
But there is one thing for which I would entreat . 
Then bringing Imogen before the king , he said 'This boy is a Briton born . 
Never master had a page so kind , so duteous , so diligent on all occasions , so true , so nurse like . 
He hath done no Briton wrong , though he hath served a Roman . 
Save him , if you spare no one beside . 
Cymbeline looked earnestly on his daughter Imogen . 
Yea , even though it be the life of the noblest prisoner I have . 
'I humbly thank your highness , said Imogen . 
'No , no , alas ! said Imogen , 'I have other work in hand , good master your life I cannot ask for . 
This seeming want of gratitude in the boy astonished the Roman general . 
Imogen then , fixing her eye on Iachimo , demanded no other boon than this that Iachimo should be made to confess whence he had the ring he wore on his finger . 
Cymbeline granted her this boon , and threatened Iachimo with the torture if he did not confess how he came by the diamond ring on his finger . 
What Posthumus felt at hearing this proof of the innocence of his lady cannot be expressed . 
Bellarius chose this , time of joy and reconciliation to make his confession . 
He presented Polydore and Cadwal to the king , telling him they were his two lost sons , Guiderius and Arviragus . 
It is sufficient that all were made happy who were deserving and even the treacherous Iachimo , in consideration of his villainy having missed its final aim , was dismissed without punishment . 
Then calling to him his second daughter , he demanded what she had to say . 
The king , shocked with this appearance of ingratitude in his favourite child , desired her to consider her words , and to mend her speech , lest it should mar her fortunes . 
But that she could not frame her mouth to such large speeches as her sisters had done , or promise to love nothing else in the world . 
When power bowed to flattery , honour was bound to plainness . 
For Lear's threats , what could he do to him , whose life was already at his service ? That should not hinder duty from speaking . 
And Cordelia with a heavy heart departed , for she knew the cunning of her sisters , and she wished her father in better hands than she was about to leave him in . 
Cordelia was no sooner gone , than the devilish dispositions of her sisters began to show themselves in their true colours . 
She could not bear to see him and his hundred knights . 
True love and fidelity are no more to be estranged by ill , than falsehood and hollow heartedness can be conciliated by good , usage . 
Nor was Kent the only friend Lear had . 
and that Lear was no longer Lear , but the shadow of Lear for which free speeches he was once or twice threatened to be whipped . 
Lear at first could not believe his eyes or ears , nor that it was his daughter who spoke so unkindly . 
He could not believe that she who had received a crown from him could seek to cut off his train , and grudge him the respect due to his old age . 
But he was mistaken in expecting kinder treatment of Regan than he had experienced from her sister Goneril . 
As if willing to outdo her sister in unequal behaviour , she declared that she thought fifty knights too many to wait upon him that five and twenty were enough . 
The wind were high , and the rain and storm increased , when the old man sallied forth to combat with the elements , less sharp than his daughters' unkindness . 
This dreadful storm has driven the beasts to their hiding places . 
Man's nature cannot endure the affliction or the fear . 
And Lear rebuked him and said , these lesser evils were not felt , where a greater malady was taxed . 
And now the loyalty of this worthy earl of Kent showed itself in more essential services than he had hitherto found opportunity to perform . 
, should have stayed by her fire such a night as that , and warmed himself . 
And Cordelia said that she had no cause , no more than they had . 
Let us return to say a word or two about those cruel daughters . 
These monsters of ingratitude , who had been so false to their old father , could not be expected to prove more faithful to their own husbands . 
They soon grew tired of paying even the appearance of duty and affection , and in an open way showed they had fixed their loves upon another . 
It happened that the object of their guilty loves was the same . 
Thus' the justice of Heaven at last overtook these wicked daughters . 
Thus , Heaven took this innocent lady to itself in her young years , after showing her to the world an illustrious example of filial duty . 
Lear did not long survive this kind child . 
MACBETH When Duncan the Meek reigned king of Scotland , there lived a great thane , or lord , called Macbeth . 
They then turned into air , and vanished by which the generals knew them to be the weird sisters , or witches . 
But the wicked suggestions of the witches had sunk too deep into the mind of Macbeth to allow him to attend to the warnings of the good Banquo . 
From that time he bent all his thoughts how to compass the throne of Scotland . 
Macbeth had a wife , to whom he communicated the strange prediction of the weird sisters , and its partial accomplishment . 
She was a bad , ambitious woman , and so as her husband and herself could arrive at greatness , she cared not much by what means . 
This was the time when lady Macbeth waked to plot the murder of the king . 
She knew him to be ambitious , but withal to be scrupulous , and not yet prepared for that height of crime which commonly in the end accompanies inordinate ambition . 
would come between , and defeat the purpose . 
She returned to confer with her husband . 
His resolution had begun to stagger . 
He considered that there were strong reasons against the deed . 
Then she added , how practicable it was to lay the guilt of the deed upon the drunken sleepy grooms . 
And with the velour of her tongue she so chastised his sluggish resolutions , that he once more summoned up courage to the bloody business . 
Getting rid of this fear , he entered the king's room , whom he despatched with one stroke of his dagger . 
Again he thought he heard a voice which cried 'Sleep no more Macbeth cloth murder sleep , the innocent sleep , that nourishes life . 
Still it cried 'Sleep no more , to all the house . 
'Glamis hath murdered sleep , and therefore Cawdor shall sleep no more . 
Macbeth shall sleep no more . 
With such horrible imaginations Macbeth returned to his listening wife , who began to think he had failed of his purpose , and that the deed was somehow frustrated . 
Malcolm , the eldest , sought for refuge in the English court and the youngest , Donalbain , made his escape to Ireland . 
The way by which Banquo was to pass to the palace at night was beset by murderers appointed by Macbeth , who stabbed Banquo but in the scuffle Fleance escaped . 
Just at these words the ghost of Banquo , whom he had caused to be murdered , entered the room and placed himself on the chair which Macbeth was about to occupy . 
To such dreadful fancies Macbeth was subject . 
With these miserable thoughts they found no peace , and Macbeth determined once more to seek out the weird sisters , and know from them the worst . 
By these charms they bound the infernal spirits to answer their questions . 
It was demanded of Macbeth , whether he would have his doubts resolved by them , or by their masters , the spirits . 
He , nothing daunted by the dreadful ceremonies which he saw , boldly answered 'Where are they ? let me see them . 
And they called the spirits , which were three . 
'Then live , Macduff ! cried the king 'what need I fear of thee ? but yet I will make assurance doubly sure . 
Thou shalt not live that I may tell pale hearted Fear it lies , and sleep in spite of thunder . 
That spirit being dismissed , a third arose in the form of a child crowned , with a tree in his hand . 
He called Macbeth by name , and comforted him against conspiracies , saying , that he should never be vanquished , until the wood of Birnam to Dunsinane Hill should come against him . 
But my heart throbs to know one thing . 
And from this time the thoughts of Macbeth were all bloody and dreadful . 
These and such like deeds alienated the minds of all his chief nobility from him . 
His recruits went on slowly . 
'with armour on his back . 
So he shut himself up in his castle , whose impregnable strength was such as defied a siege here he sullenly waited the approach of Malcolm . 
There is no flying hence , nor staying here . 
I begin to be weary of the sun , and wish my life at an end . 
With these desperate speeches he sallied forth upon the besiegers , who had now come up to the castle . 
The strange appearance which had given the messenger an idea of a wood moving is easily solved . 
This marching of the soldiers with boughs had at a distance the appearance which had frightened the messenger . 
Thus were the words of the spirit brought to pass , in a sense different from that in which Macbeth had understood them , and one great hold of his confidence was gone . 
Then Macbeth remembered the words of the spirit , how none of woman born should hurt him and smiling confidently he said to Macduff 'Thou losest thy labour , Macduff . 
As easily thou mayest impress the air with thy sword , as make me vulnerable . 
I bear a charmed life , which must not yield to one of woman born . 
I will not fight with thee . 
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane , and thou opposed to me , who west never born of woman , yet will I try the last . 
ALL 'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL Bertram , count of Rousillon , had newly come to his title and estate , by the death of his father . 
Bertram was living with his mother , the widowed countess , when Lafeu , an old lord of the French court , came to conduct him to the king . 
Lafeu told the countess that the king had fallen into a sad malady , which was pronounced by his physicians to be incurable . 
were living , for that she doubted not he could have cured his majesty of his disease . 
While she was speaking , Helena wept in sad and mournful silence , which made the countess gently reprove her for too much grieving for her father's death . 
Bertram now bade his mother farewell . 
Helena had long loved Bertram , and when she wept in sad mournful silence , the tears she shed were not for Gerard de Narbon . 
Helena had long loved Bertram , yet she always remembered that he was the count of Rousillon , descended from the most ancient family in France . 
Her parents of no note at all . 
The countess dismissed the steward with thanks , and desired him to tell Helena she wished to speak with her . 
While the countess was thus meditating on the loving errors of her own youth , Helena entered , and she said to her 'Helena , you know I am a mother to you . 
Helena replied 'You are my honourable mistress . 
'You are my daughter , said the countess again 'I say I am your mother . 
Helena , do you love my son ? 'Good madam , pardon me , said the affrighted Helena . 
Again the countess repeated her question . 
'Do you love my son ? 'Do not you love him , madam ? said Helena . 
The countess replied 'Give me not this evasive answer , Helena . 
Come , come , disclose the state of your affections , for your love has to the full appeared . 
'This was your motive for wishing to go to Paris , said the countess , 'was it ? Speak truly . 
Helena arrived at Paris , and by the assistance of her friend the old lord Lafeu , she obtained an audience of the king . 
She had still many difficulties to encounter , for the king was not easily prevailed on to try the medicine offered him by this fair young doctor . 
whom she could like for a husband the choice of a husband being the fee Helena demanded if she cured the king of his disease . 
Helena did not deceive herself in the hope she conceived of the efficacy of her father's medicine . 
Helena was not slow to make her choice , for among these young lords she saw the count Rousillon , and turning to Bertram , she said 'This is the man . 
I dare not say , my lord , I take you , but I give me and my service ever whilst I live into your guiding power . 
'Why , then , said the king 'young Bertram , take her she is your wife . 
Helena heard him speak these words of rejection and of scorn , and she said to the king 'That you are well , my lord , I am glad . 
If Helena wondered not , she grieved when she found it was his intention to leave her . 
He ordered her to go home to his mother . 
Back to the countess then Helena returned . 
But this gracious reception failed to cheer the sad mind of Helena , and she said 'Madam my lord is gone , for ever gone . 
'This is a dreadful sentence ! said Helena . 
But in vain by respectful condescension and kind flattery this matchless mother tried to soothe the sorrows of her daughter in law . 
Helena still kept her eyes fixed upon the letter , and cried out in an agony of grief Till I have no wife , I have nothing in France . 
The countess asked her if she found those words in the letter ? 'Yes , madam , was all poor Helena could answer . 
The next morning Helena was missing . 
Jaques le Grand , and concluded with requesting the countess to inform her son that the wife he so hated had left his house for ever . 
Florence was a city through which the pilgrims used to pass on their way to St . 
'And you will see a countryman of yours , said the widow 'his name is count Rousillon , who has done worthy service in the duke's wars . 
Helena wanted no second invitation , when she found Bertram was to make part of the show . 
She accompanied her hostess and a sad and mournful pleasure it was to her to look once more upon her dear husband's face . 
'Is he not a handsome man ? said the widow . 
'I like him well , replied Helena , with great truth . 
to recover her truant lord . 
And if she could obtain the ring and this promise too , she doubted not she should make some future good come of it . 
In the evening , after it was dark , Bertram was admitted into Diana's chamber , and Helena was there ready to receive him . 
Before it was light in the morning , she sent Bertram away and he immediately set out on his journey towards his mother's house . 
Helena prevailed on the widow and Diana to accompany her to Paris , their further assistance being necessary to the full accomplishment of the plan she had formed . 
When they arrived there , they found the king was gone upon a visit to the countess of Rousillon , and Helena followed the king with all the speed she could make . 
The king said 'Praising what is lost makes the remembrance dear . 
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW Katharine , the Shrew , was the eldest daughter of Baptista , a rich gentleman of Padua . 
She was a lady of such an ungovernable spirit and fiery temper , such a loud tongued scold , that she was known in Padua by no other name than Katharine the Shrew . 
and hearing she was rich and handsome , resolved upon marrying this famous termagant , and taming her into a meek and manageable wife . 
You knew my father he is dead , and has left me heir to all his lands and goods . 
Then tell me , if I get your daughter's love , what dowry you will give with her . 
In the meantime Petruchio was settling with himself the mode of courtship he should pursue and he said 'I will woo her with some spirit when she comes . 
If she rails at me , why then I will tell her she sings as sweetly as a nightingale and if she frowns . 
I will say she looks as clear as roses newly washed with dew . 
If she will not speak a word , I will praise the eloquence of her language and if she bids me leave her . 
I will give her thanks as if she bid me stay with her a week . 
Now the stately Katharine entered , and Petruchio first addressed her with 'Good morrow , Kate , for that is your name , I hear . 
Katharine , not liking this plain salutation , said disdainfully 'They call me Katharine who do speak to me . 
A strange courtship they made of it . 
And now Baptista entering , Petruchio told him his daughter had received him kindly , and that she had promised to be married the next Sunday . 
This Katharine denied , saying she would rather see him hanged on Sunday , and reproached her father for wishing to wed her to such a mad cap ruffian as Petruchio . 
Provide the feast , father , and bid the wedding guests . 
And all the while they were being married he stamped and swore so , that the high spirited Katharine trembled and shook with fear . 
Never sure was there such a mad marriage but Petruchio did but put this wildness on , the better to succeed in the plot he had formed to tame his shrewish wife . 
At length , after a weary journey , during which Katharine had heard nothing but the wild ravings of Petruchio at the servant and the horses , they arrived at his house . 
Petruchio welcomed her kindly to her home , but he resolved she should have neither rest nor food that night . 
'Ah , said she , 'did he marry me to famish me ? Beggars that come to my father's door have food given them . 
I am sure this kindness merits thanks . 
What , not a word ? Nay , then you love not the meat , and all the pains I have taken is to no purpose . 
He then ordered the servant to take the dish away . 
Extreme hunger , which had abated the pride of Katharine , made her say , though angered to the heart 'I pray you let it stand . 
But this was not all Petruchio intended to bring her to , and he replied 'The poorest service is repaid with thanks , and so shall mine before you touch the meat . 
On this Katharine brought out a reluctant 'I thank you , sir . 
Katharine said 'I will have this all gentlewomen wear such caps as these . 
'When you are gentle , replied Petruchio , 'you shall have one too , and not till then . 
'Love me , or love me not , said Katharine , 'I like the cap , and I will have this cap or none . 
'You say you wish to see the gown , said Petruchio , still affecting to misunderstand her . 
The tailor then came forward and showed her a fine gown he had made for her . 
Petruchio , whose intent was that she should have neither cap nor gown , found as much fault with that . 
The tailor said 'You bid me make it according to the fashion of the times' and Katharine said , she never saw a better fashioned gown . 
And then he ordered his horses , affirming they should reach Baptista's house by dinner time , for that it was but seven o'clock . 
and will be supper time before we get there . 
I will not go to day , and when I go , it shall be what o'clock I say it is . 
This he was resolved to prove , therefore he said again 'I say , it is the moon . 
'I know it is the moon , replied Katherine . 
'You lie , it is the blessed sun , said Petruchio . 
'Then it is the blessed sun , replied Katherine 'but sun it is not , when you say it is not . 
What you will have it named , even so it is , and so it ever shall be for Katherine . 
'Why , how now , Kate , said Petruchio 'I hope you are not mad . 
This is a man , old and wrinkled , faded and withered , and not a maiden , as you say he is . 
On this Katharine said 'Pardon me , old gentleman the sun has so dazzled my eyes , that everything I look on seemeth green . 
Now I perceive you are a reverend father I hope you will pardon me for my sad mistake . 
'Do , good old grand sire , said Petruchio , 'and tell us which way you are travelling . 
We shall be glad of your good company , if you are going our way . 
The old gentleman replied Fair sir , and you my merry mistress , your strange encounter has much amazed me . 
My name is Vincentio , and I am going to visit a son of mine who lives at Padua . 
When they entered , Baptista welcomed them to the wedding feast , and there was present also another newly married pair . 
Lucentio and Hortensio raised the wager to a hundred crowns , and Lucentio first sent his servant to desire Bianca would come to him . 
But the servant returned , and said 'Sir , my mistress sends you word she is busy and cannot come . 
And now it was Hortensio's turn to send for his wife and he said to his servant 'Go , and entreat my wife to come to me . 
'Oh ho ! entreat her ! said Petruchio . 
'Nay , then , she needs must come . 
'I am afraid , sir , said Hortensio , 'your wife will not be entreated . 
She bids you come to her . 
'Worse and worse ! said Petruchio and then he sent his servant , saying 'Sirrah , go to your mistress , and tell her I command her to come to me . 
Katharine replied 'They sit conferring by the parlour fire . 
'Go , fetch them hither ! said Petruchio . 
Away went Katharine without reply to perform her husband's command . 
'Here is a wonder , said Lucentio , 'if you talk of a wonder . 
'And so it is , said Hortensio 'I marvel what it bodes . 
'Marry , peace it bodes , said Petruchio , 'and love , and quiet life , and right supremacy and , to be short , everything that is sweet and happy . 
Katharine now entering with the two ladies , he continued 'See where she comes , and brings your froward wives as prisoners to her womanly persuasion . 
Katharine , that cap of yours does not become you off with that bauble , and throw it under foot . 
Katharine instantly took off her cap , and threw it down . 
'The more fool you , said Bianca , 'for laying on my duty . 
'Katharine , said Petruchio , 'I charge you tell these headstrong women what duty they owe their lords and husbands . 
And Katharine once more became famous in Padua , not as heretofore , as Katharine the Shrew , but as Katharine the most obedient and duteous wife in Padua . 
He then began his own history , in the following words 'I was born at Syracuse , and brought up to the profession of a merchant . 
The parents of these children being exceeding poor , I bought the two boys , and brought them up to attend upon my sons . 
, and seeing them in safety , I had no care but to struggle with the wild sea waves , to preserve my dear son and the youngest slave . 
Aegeon's sons , besides being exactly alike in face and person , were both named alike , being both called Antipholus , and the two twin slaves were also both named Dromio . 
, intending to sell them . 
at the time his father came there . 
So I unhappily , to find a mother and a brother , do lose myself . 
While he was thus meditating on his weary travels , which had hitherto been so useless , Dromio returned . 
Antipholus , wondering that he came back so soon , asked him where he had left the money . 
Now it was not his own Dromio , but the twin brother that lived with Antipholus of Ephesus , that he spoke to . 
Dromio replied 'My mistress sent me to bid you come to dinner . 
The capon burns , and the pig falls from the spit , and the meat will be all cold if you do not come home . 
'Why , your worship's wife , sir , replied Dromio . 
Antipholus having no wife , he was very angry with Dromio , and said 'Because I familiarly sometimes chat with you , you presume to jest with me in this free manner . 
I had no charge but to fetch you home , to dine with my mistress and her sister . 
and then she told him how well he loved her before they were married , and that now he loved some other lady instead of her . 
And Dromio , who followed them , was no less surprised , for the cook maid , who was his brother's wife , also claimed him for her husband . 
A tailor showed him some silks he had bought for him , and insisted upon taking measure of him for some clothes . 
, for the purse of money , which Adriana had sent by Dromio , and he had delivered to the other Antipholus . 
On hearing this , Adriana ran out to fetch him home , taking some people with her to secure her husband again and her sister went along with her . 
When they came to the gates of a convent in their neighbourhood , there they saw Antipholus and Dromio , as they thought being again deceived by the likeness of the twin brothers . 
Antipholus of Syracuse was still beset with the perplexities this likeness had brought upon him . 
And now came out the lady abbess herself to inquire into the cause of this disturbance . 
'Perhaps , said the abbess , 'he has fixed his affections on some other lady than you his wife and that has driven him to this state . 
Adriana said she had long thought the love of some other lady was the cause of his frequent absences from home . 
to learn the truth , she said 'You should have reprehended him for this . 
'Why , so I did , replied Adriana . 
'Ay , said the abbess , 'but perhaps not enough . 
At table I would not let him eat for speaking of it . 
When I was alone with him , I talked of nothing else and in company I gave him frequent hints of it . 
Still all my talk was how vile and bad it was in him to love any lady better than me . 
The lady abbess , having drawn this full confession from the jealous Adriana , now said 'And therefore comes it that your husband is mad . 
The venomous clamour of a jealous woman is a more deadly poison than a mad dog's tooth . 
Adriana stopped this melancholy procession , and cried out to the duke for justice , telling him that the abbess had refused to deliver up her lunatic husband to her care . 
Adriana was strangely surprised to see her husband , when she thought he had been within the convent . 
He therefore spoke to Antipholus in words of fatherly affection , with joyful hope that he should now be released . 
And now these riddling errors , which had so perplexed them all , were clearly made out . 
show so handsome in his brother . 
Adriana had so well profited by the good counsel of her mother in law , that she never after cherished unjust suspicions , or was jealous of her husband . 
Antipholus of Syracuse married the fair Luciana , the sister of his brother's wife and the good old Aegeon , with his wife and sons , lived at Ephesus many years . 
Great interest was made for the pardon of young Claudio , and the good old lord Escalus himself interceded for him . 
'Alas , said he , 'this gentleman whom I would save had an honourable father , for whose sake I pray you pardon the young man's transgression . 
Sir , he must die . 
Lucio , the friend of Claudio , visited him in the prison , and Claudio said to him 'I pray you , Lucio , do me this kind service . 
'It is a man's voice , replied the nun 'Gentle Isabel , go to him , and learn his business you may , I may not . 
'And have you nuns no further privileges ? said Isabel . 
'Are not these large enough ? replied the nun . 
'Yes , truly , said Isabel 'I speak not as desiring more , but rather wishing a more strict restraint upon the sisterhood , the votarists of Saint Clare . 
Again they heard the voice of Lucio , and the nun said 'He calls again . 
I pray you answer him . 
'Fair and gentle lady , he replied , 'your brother kindly greets you by me he is in prison . 
'Woe is me ! for what ? said Isabel . 
Lucio then told her , Claudio was imprisoned for seducing a young maiden . 
'Ah , said she , 'I fear it is my cousin Juliet . 
She it is , replied Lucio . 
'Why then , let my brother marry Juliet , said Isabel . 
'Alas ! said Isabel , 'what poor ability is there in me to do him good ? I doubt I have no power to move Angelo . 
'Our doubts are traitors , said Lucio , 'and make us lose the good we might often win , by fearing to attempt it . 
Go to lord Angelo ! When maidens sue , and kneel , and weep , men give like gods . 
'I will see what I can do , said Isabel 'I will but stay to give the prioress notice of the affair , and then I will go to Angelo . 
Command me to my brother soon at night I will send him word of my success . 
'Well , what is your suit ? said Angelo . 
She then made her petition in the most moving terms for her brother's life . 
But Angelo said 'Maiden , there is no remedy your brother is sentenced , and he must die . 
'O just , but severe law , said Isabel 'I had a brother then Heaven keep your honour ! and she was about to depart . 
But Lucio , who had accompanied her , said 'Give it not over so return to him again , entreat him , kneel down before him , hang upon his gown . 
You are too cold if you should need a pin , you could not with a more tame tongue desire it . 
Then again Isabel on her knees implored for mercy . 
'He is sentenced , said Angelo 'it is too late . 
'Too later' said Isabel 'Why , no I that do speak a word may call it back again . 
'Pray you begone , said Angelo . 
I would to heaven I had your power , and you were Isabel . 
Should it then be thus ? No. I would tell you what it were to be a judge , and what a prisoner . 
'Be content , fair maid ! said Angelo 'it is the law , not I , condemns your brother . 
Were he my kinsman , my brother , or my son , it should be thus with him . 
He must die to morrow . 
'To morrow ? said Isabel 'Oh , that is sudden spare him , spare him he is not prepared for death . 
So you would be the first that gives this sentence , and he the first that suffers it . 
Good my lord , turn back ! 'How , bribe me ! said Angelo , astonished that she should think of offering him a bribe . 
'Well , come to me to morrow , said Angelo . 
Never could an immodest woman once stir my temper , but this virtuous woman subdues me quite . 
Even till now , when men were fond , I smiled and wondered at them . 
'My brother , said Isabel , 'did so love Juliet , and yet you tell me he shall die for it . 
And then she told him , she hoped he only spoke these words to try her virtue . 
But he said 'Believe me , on my honour , my words express my purpose . 
Isabel , angered to the heart to hear him use the word Honour to express such dishonourable purposes , said 'Ha ! little honour to be much believed and most pernicious purpose . 
Redeem your brother by yielding to my will , or he shall die to morrow . 
As for you , say what you can , my false will overweigh your true story . 
'To whom should I complain ? Did I tell this , who would believe me ? said Isabel , as she went towards the dreary prison where her brother was confined . 
'My business as a word or two with Claudio , said Isabel . 
Then the duke left them together , and desired the provost , who had the charge of the prisoners , to place him where he might overhear their conversation . 
'Now , sister , what is the comfort ? said Claudio . 
Isabel told him he must prepare for death on the morrow . 
'Is there no remedy ? said Claudio . 
'Yes , brother , replied Isabel , 'there is , but such a one , as if you consented to it would strip your honour from you , and leave you naked . 
'Let me know the point , said Claudio . 
'Why do you give me this shame ? said Claudio . 
'Think you I can fetch a resolution from flowery tenderness ? If I must die , I will encounter darkness as a bride , and hug it in my arms . 
'There spoke my brother , said Isabel 'there my father's grave did utter forth a voice . 
Yes , you must die yet would you think it , Claudio ! this outward sainted deputy , if I would yield to him my virgin honour , would grant your life . 
O , were it but my life , I would lay it down for your deliverance as frankly as a pin ! 'Thanks , dear Isabel , said Claudio . 
'Be ready to die to morrow , said Isabel . 
'Death is a fearful thing , said Claudio . 
'And shamed life a hateful , replied his sister . 
'Nay , hear me , Isabel ! said Claudio . 
Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her what he said , has only been to make trial of her virtue . 
She having the truth of honour in her , has given him that gracious denial which he is most glad to receive . 
There is no hope that he will pardon you therefore pass your hours in prayer , and make ready for death . 
And Claudio retired , overwhelmed with shame and sorrow for his fault . 
The duke being now alone with Isabel , commended her virtuous resolution , saying 'The hand that made you fair , has made you good . 
'O , said Isabel , 'how much is the good duke deceived in Angelo ! if ever he return , and I can speak to him , I will discover his government . 
Isabel knew not that she was even now making the discovery she threatened . 
The duke replied 'That shall not be much amiss yet as the matter now stands , Angelo will repel your accusation therefore lend an attentive ear to my advisings . 
Isabel said , she had a spirit to do anything he desired , provided it was nothing wrong . 
'I have heard of the lady , said Isabel , 'and good words went with her name . 
left her in tears , and dried not one of them with his comfort . 
The duke then more plainly unfolded his plan . 
'Nor , gentle daughter , said the feigned friar , 'fear you to do this thing Angelo is her husband , and to bring them thus together is no sin . 
Isabel being pleased with this project , departed to do as he directed her and he went to apprise Mariana of their intention . 
'Angelo , said she , 'has a garden surrounded with a brick wall , on the western side of which is a vineyard , and to that vineyard is a gate . 
There I have made my promise at the dead of the night to call upon him , and have got from him his word of assurance for my brother's life . 
I have taken a due and wary note of the place and with whispering and most guilty diligence he showed me the way twice over . 
'Are there no other tokens agreed upon between you , that Mariana must observe ? said the duke . 
'No , none , said Isabel , 'only to go when it is dark . 
His head is off , and sent to the deputy . 
Leaving Isabel sufficiently instructed , he next went to Mariana , and gave her counsel in what manner she also should act . 
I made my suit to lord Angelo for my brother's pardon . 
It were needless to tell your grace how I prayed and kneeled , how he repelled me , and how I replied for this was of much length . 
The vile conclusion I now begin with grief and shame to utter . 
As this is true , let me in safety rise , or else for ever be fixed here a marble monument . 
Then did Isabel appeal for the truth of what she had said to friar Lodowick , that being the name the duke had assumed in his disguise . 
Let me have way , my lord , to find this practice out . 
'Ay , with all my heart , said the duke , 'and punish them to the height of your pleasure . 
I for a while will leave you , but stir not you , lord Angelo , till you have well determined upon this slander . 
The duke then went away , leaving Angelo well pleased to be deputed judge and umpire in his own cause . 
Escalus said 'The duke is in us , and we will hear you . 
Then , to the amazement of all present , and to the utter confusion of Angelo , the supposed friar threw off his disguise , and they saw it was the duke himself . 
The duke first addressed Isabel . 
He said to her 'Come hither , Isabel . 
Your friar is now your prince , but with my habit I have not changed my heart . 
I am still devoted to your service . 
'O give me pardon , said Isabel , 'that I , your vassal , have employed and troubled your unknown sovereignty . 
Then , good prince , no longer prolong my shame , but let my trial be my own confession . 
Immediate sentence and death is all the grace I beg . 
The duke replied 'Angelo , thy faults are manifest . 
Should Isabel kneel down to beg for mercy , her brother's ghost would break his paved bed , and take her hence in horror . 
Still Mariana said 'Isabel , sweet Isabel , do but kneel by me , hold up your hand , say nothing ! I will speak all . 
They say , best men are moulded out of faults , and for the most part become much the better for being a little bad . 
I partly think a due sincerity governed his deeds , till he did look on me . 
Since it is so , let him not die ! My brother had but justice , in that he did the thing for which he died . 
Say you will be mine , and he shall be my brother too . 
Angelo remembered , when dressed in a little brief authority , how hard his heart had been , and felt how sweet is mercy . 
The duke commanded Claudio to marry Juliet , and offered himself again to the acceptance of Isabel , whose virtuous and noble conduct had won her prince's heart . 
And the mercy loving duke long reigned with his beloved Isabel , the happiest of husbands and of princes . 
from their birth they so much resembled each other , that , but for the difference in their dress , they could not be known apart . 
The ship , on board of which they were , split on a rock in a violent storm , and a very small number of the ship's company escaped with their lives . 
'Ay , very well , madam , replied the captain , 'for I was born not three hours' travel from this place . 
'Who governs here ? said Viola . 
The captain told her , Illyria was governed by Orsino , a duke noble in nature as well as dignity . 
Viola said , she had heard her father speak of Orsino , and that he was unmarried then . 
Viola , who was herself in such a sad affliction for her brother's loss , wished she could live with this lady , who so tenderly mourned a brother's death . 
She asked the captain if he could introduce her to Olivia , saying she would willingly serve this lady . 
Then Viola formed another project in her mind , which was , in a man's habit , to serve the duke Orsino as a page . 
To Cesario Orsino confided the whole history of his love for the lady Olivia . 
Unmeet companion no doubt his grave courtiers thought Cesario was for their once noble master , the great duke Orsino . 
'What do you know , Cesario ? said Orsino . 
'Too well I know , replied Viola , 'what love women may owe to men . 
They are as true of heart as we are . 
My father had a daughter loved a man , as I perhaps , were I a woman , should love your lordship . 
'And what is her history ? said Orsino . 
'A blank , my lord , replied Viola 'she never told her love , but let concealment , like a worm in the bud , feed on her damask cheek . 
She pined in thought , and with a green and yellow melancholy , she sat like Patience on a monument , smiling at Grief . 
Be not denied access stand at her doors , and tell her , there your fixed foot shall grow till you have audience . 
'And if I do speak to her , my lord , what then ? said Viola . 
'O then , replied Orsino , 'unfold to her the passion of my love . 
Make a long discourse to her of my dear faith . 
It will well become you to act my woes , for she will attend more to you than to one of graver aspect . 
'I told him , said the servant , 'that you were sick he said he knew you were , and therefore he came to speak with you . 
I told him that you were asleep he seemed to have a foreknowledge of that too , and said , that therefore he must speak with you . 
What is to be said to him , lady ? for he seems fortified against all denial , and will speak with you , whether you will or no . 
'Whence come you , sir ? said Olivia . 
'I can say little more than I have studied , replied Viola 'and that question is out of my part . 
'Are you a comedian ? said Olivia . 
'No , replied Viola 'and yet I am not that which I play' meaning that she , being a woman , feigned herself to be a man . 
And again she asked Olivia if she were the lady of the house . 
Is it not well done ? Viola replied 'It is beauty truly mixed the red and white upon your cheeks is by Nature's own cunning hand laid on . 
You are the most cruel lady living , if you will lead these graces to the grave , and leave the world no copy . 
'O , sir , replied Olivia , 'I will not be so cruel . 
The world may have an inventory of my beauty . 
As , item , two Lips , indifferent red item , two grey eyes , with lids to them one neck one chin and so forth . 
Were you sent here to praise me ? Viola replied 'I see what you are you are too proud , but you are fair . 
My lord and master loves you . 
'Your lord , said Olivia , 'knows well my mind . 
I cannot love him yet I doubt not he is virtuous I know him to be noble and of high estate , of fresh and spotless youth . 
All voices proclaim him learned , courteous , and valiant yet I cannot love him , he might have taken his answer long ago . 
O you should not rest between the elements of earth and air , but you should pity me . 
'You might do much , said Olivia 'what is your parentage ? Viola replied 'Above my fortunes , yet my state is well . 
Olivia now reluctantly dismissed Viola , saying 'Go to your master , and tell him , I cannot love him . 
Let him send no more , unless perchance you come again to tell me how he takes it . 
And Viola departed , bidding the lady farewell by the name of Fair Cruelty . 
When she was gone , Olivia repeated the words , Above my fortunes , yet my state is well . 
And she said aloud 'I will be sworn he is his tongue , his face , his limbs , action , and spirit , plainly show he is a gentleman . 
'Alas , said she , 'the poor lady might as well love a dream . 
Disguise I see is wicked , for it has caused Olivia to breathe as fruitless sighs for me as I do for Orsino . 
Viola returned to Orsino's palace , and related to her lord the ill success of the negotiation , repeating the command of Olivia , that the duke should trouble her no more . 
Mark it , Cesario , it is old and plain . 
The spinsters and the knitters when they sit in the sun , and the young maids that weave their thread with bone , chant this song . 
It is silly , yet I love it , for it tells of the innocence of love in the old times . 
SONG Come away , come away , Death And in sad cypress let me be laid Fly away , fly away , breath , I am slain by a fair cruel maid . 
My shroud of white stuck all with yew , O prepare it ! My part of death no one so true did share it . 
'And what kind of woman , and of what age is she ? said Orsino . 
When Viola made her second visit to Olivia , she found no difficulty in gaining access to her . 
No sooner had Viola left the lady than a claim was made upon her velour . 
A gentleman , a rejected suitor of Olivia , who had learned how that lady had favoured the duke's messenger , challenged him to fight a duel . 
You stand amazed , but be of comfort . 
And now the stranger spoke severe things , charging her with ingratitude and unkindness . 
And so indeed it was . 
The stranger , whose name was Antonio , was a sea captain . 
He had taken Sebastian up into his ship , when , almost exhausted with fatigue , he was floating on the mast to which he had fastened himself in the storm . 
This was the offence for which he was now made a prisoner . 
Antonio and Sebastian had landed together but a few hours before Antonio met Viola . 
disowned him , and denied him his own purse , no wonder he accused him of ingratitude . 
Viola , when Antonio was gone , fearing a second invitation to fight , slunk home as fast as she could . 
Sebastian was no coward he returned the blow with interest , and drew his sword . 
Sebastian did not at all object to the fondness the lady lavished on him . 
In the meantime Orsino came to visit Olivia and at the moment he arrived before Olivia's house , the officers of justice brought their prisoner , Antonio , before the duke . 
Three months has this youth attended on me' and then he ordered Antonio to be taken aside . 
My thoughts are ripe for mischief . 
But Olivia would not so lose her husband , and she cried 'Where goes my Cesario ? Viola replied 'After him I love more than my life . 
a miracle appeared ! for another Cesario entered , and addressed Olivia as his wife . 
But Viola presently acknowledged that she was indeed Viola , and his sister , under that disguise . 
Viola was the wife of Orsino , the duke of Illyria , and Sebastian the husband of the rich and noble countess , the lady Olivia . 
TIMON OF ATHENS Timon , a lord of Athens , in the enjoyment of a princely fortune , affected a humour of liberality which knew no limits . 
His almost infinite wealth could not flow in so fast , but he poured it out faster upon all sorts and degrees of people . 
Not the poor only tasted of his bounty , but great lords did not disdain to rank themselves among his dependents and followers . 
His table was resorted to by all the luxurious feasters , and his house was open to all comers and goers at Athens . 
to partake of his royal entertainments , and return most rich in his own estimation if he had received a nod or a salutation from Timon . 
One of these flesh flies was Ventidius , for whose debts , unjustly contracted , Timon but lately had paid down the sum of five talents . 
But among this confluence , this great flood of visitors , none were more conspicuous than the makers of presents and givers of gifts . 
It was fortunate for these men if Timon took a fancy to a dog or a horse , or any piece of cheap furniture which was theirs . 
, and with joy they would run over at the spectacle of such , as it appeared to him , truly festive and fraternal meeting . 
But who should tell him so ? his flatterers ? they had no interest in shutting his eyes . 
But now the time was come that Timon could shut his ears no longer to the representations of this faithful steward . 
Struck with wonder at this presentation , Timon hastily replied 'My lands extend from Athens to Lacedaemon . 
to the amount of five hundred times fifty talents . 
Lucullus was the first applied to . 
As little success had the messenger who was sent to lord Lucius . 
Who can call any man friend that dips in the same dish with him ? just of this metal is every flatterer . 
Now was Timon as much avoided in his poverty as he had been courted and resorted to in his riches . 
of his affairs , the eyes of all men were suddenly surprised at a new and incredible lustre which this setting sun put forth . 
Once more lord Timon proclaimed a feast , to which he invited his accustomed guests , lords , ladies , all that was great or fashionable in Athens . 
Lord Lucius and Lucullus came , Ventidius , Sempronius , and the rest . 
But Timon begged them not to give such trifles a thought , for he had altogether forgotten it . 
And these base fawning lords , though they had denied him money in his adversity , yet could not refuse their presence at this new blaze of his returning prosperity . 
that out of this heap , which in digging he had discovered , might arise some mischief to plague mankind . 
to offer him service in extremity . 
But greater visitants than a poor steward were about to interrupt the savage quiet of Timon's solitude . 
For now the day was come when the ungrateful lords of Athens sorely repented the injustice which they had done to the noble Timon . 
For Alcibiades , like an incensed wild boar , was raging at the walls of their city , and with his hot siege threatened to lay fair Athens in the dust . 
A deputation of the senators was chosen in this emergency to wait upon Timon . 
If Alcibiades killed his countrymen , Timon cared not . 
If he sacked fair Athens , and slew her old men and her infants , Timon would rejoice . 
So he told them and that there was not a knife in the unruly camp which he did not prize above the reverendest throat in Athens . 
These words a little revived the senators , who hoped that his kindness for their city was returning . 
ROMEO AND JULIET The two chief families in Verona were the rich Capulets and the Montagues . 
Old lord Capulet made a great supper , to which many fair ladies and many noble guests were invited . 
All the admired beauties of Verona were present , and all comers were made welcome if they were not of the house of Montague . 
would make him think his swan a crow . 
Romeo had small faith in Benvolio's words nevertheless , for the love of Rosaline , he was persuaded to go . 
To this feast of Capulets then young Romeo with Benvolio and their friend Mercutio went masked . 
Old Capulet bid them welcome , and told them that ladies who had their toes unplagued with corns would dance with them . 
, so richly did her beauty and perfections shine above the ladies her companions . 
While he uttered these praises , he was overheard by Tybalt , a nephew of lord Capulet , who knew him by his voice to be Romeo . 
And he stormed and raged exceedingly , and would have struck young Romeo dead . 
Tybalt , forced to be patient against his will , restrained himself , but swore that this vile Montague should at another time dearly pay for his intrusion . 
'Good pilgrim , answered the lady , 'your devotion shows by far too mannerly and too courtly saints have hands , which pilgrims may touch , but kiss not . 
'Have not saints lips , and pilgrims too ? said Romeo . 
'Ay , said the lady , 'lips which they must use in prayer . 
'O then , my dear saint , said Romeo , 'hear my prayer , and grant it , lest I despair . 
In such like allusions and loving conceits they were engaged , when the lady was called away to her mother . 
This troubled him , but it could not dissuade him from loving . 
And she , leaning her cheek upon her hand , he passionately wished himself a glove upon that hand , that he might touch her cheek . 
'slack , said Romeo , 'there is more peril in your eye , than in twenty of their swords . 
Do you but look kind upon me , lady , and I am proof against their enmity . 
Better my life should be ended by their hate , than that hated life should be prolonged , to live without your love . 
But there was no room in her case for denials , or puttings off , or any of the customary arts of delay and protracted courtship . 
Romeo had heard from her own tongue , when she did not dream that he was near her , a confession of her love . 
upon the accident of the night which had so strangely discovered her thoughts . 
But at last they parted , wishing mutually sweet sleep and rest for that night . 
This was the same angry Tybalt who would have fought with Romeo at old lord Capulet's feast . 
He , seeing Mercutio , accused him bluntly of associating with Romeo , a Montague . 
Mercutio being dead , Romeo kept his temper no longer , but returned the scornful appellation of villain which Tybalt had given him and they fought till Tybalt was slain by Romeo . 
Thus she pleaded against her new son in law , but she knew not yet that he was her son in law and Juliet's husband . 
The prince , unmoved by the passionate exclamations of these women , on a careful examination of the facts , pronounced his sentence , and by that sentence Romeo was banished from Verona . 
Then came fresh tears , and they were altogether of grief for Romeo's banishment . 
That word was more terrible to her than the death of many Tybalts . 
To him it appeared there was no world out of Verona's walls , no living out of the sight of Juliet . 
Heaven was there where Juliet lived , and all beyond was purgatory , torture , hell . 
The law had been lenient to him , that instead of death , which he had incurred , had pronounced by the prince's mouth only banishment . 
He had slain Tybalt , but Tybalt would have slain him there was a sort of happiness in that . 
had become his dear wife therein he was most happy . 
All these blessings , as the friar made them out to be , did Romeo put from him like a sullen misbehaved wench . 
And the friar bade him beware , for such as despaired , died miserable . 
That night Romeo passed with his dear wife , gaining secret admission to her chamber , from the orchard in which he had heard her confession of love the night before . 
Romeo's mind misgave him in like manner but now he was forced hastily to depart , for it was death for him to be found within the walls of Verona after daybreak . 
This was but the beginning of the tragedy of this pair of star crossed lovers . 
Romeo had not been gone many days , before the old lord Capulet proposed a match for Juliet . 
The terrified Juliet was in a sad perplexity at her father's offer . 
Love , and the dread of marrying Paris , gave young Juliet strength to undertake this horrible adventure and she took the phial of the friar , promising to observe his directions . 
Going from the monastery , she met the young count Paris , and modestly dissembling , promised to become his bride . 
This was joyful news to the lord Capulet and his wife . 
All things in the house were in a bustle against the approaching nuptials . 
No cost was spared to prepare such festival rejoicings as Verona had never before witnessed . 
On the Wednesday night Juliet drank off the potion . 
But then her love for Romeo , and her aversion for Paris returned , and she desperately swallowed the draught and became insensible . 
by a promising and advantageous match . 
Now all things that were ordained for the festival were turned from their properties to do the office of a black funeral . 
Just before , Romeo had been unusually joyful and light hearted . 
, 'If a man were to need poison , which by the law of Mantua it is death to sell , here lives a poor wretch who would sell it him . 
He reached Verona at midnight , and found the churchyard , in the midst of which was situated the ancient tomb of the Capulets . 
But the count in scorn refused his warning , and laid hands on him as a felon , which Romeo resisting , they fought , and Paris fell . 
The watch by this time had come up to the place . 
The friar had been apprehended by some of the watch , coming from the churchyard , trembling , sighing , and weeping , in a suspicious manner . 
A great multitude being assembled at the Capulets' monument , the friar was demanded by the prince to deliver what he knew of these strange and disastrous accidents . 
And lord Capulet in return said that he would raise another statue to Romeo . 
could remove the rooted hates and jealousies of the noble families . 
This it was , which more than the loss of ten kingdoms , dashed the spirits and brought a cloud over the mind of this honourable young prince . 
What mostly troubled him was an uncertainty about the manner of his father's death . 
And he waited with impatience for the coming of night . 
At the sight of his father's spirit , Hamlet was struck with a sudden surprise and fear . 
He at first called upon the angels and heavenly ministers to defend them . 
And Hamlet promised to observe the ghost's direction in all things , and the ghost vanished . 
But Hamlet's malady lay deeper than she supposed , or than could be so cured . 
His father's ghost , which he had seen , still haunted his imagination , and the sacred injunction to revenge his murder gave him no rest till it was accomplished . 
Every hour of delay seemed to him a sin , and a violation of his father's commands . 
Yet how to compass the death of the king , surrounded as he constantly was with his guards , was no easy matter . 
Besides , the very circumstance that the usurper was his mother's husband filled him with some remorse , and still blunted the edge of his purpose . 
The mere act of putting a fellow creature to death was in itself odious and terrible to a disposition naturally so gentle as Hamlet's was . 
His very melancholy , and the dejection of spirits he had so long been in , produced an irresoluteness and wavering of purpose which kept him from proceeding to extremities . 
And he determined that he would have more certain grounds to go upon than a vision , or apparition , which might be a deluston . 
To this effect he ordered a play to be prepared , to the representation of which he invited the king and queen . 
The story of the play was of a murder done in Vienna upon a duke . 
The duke's name was Gonzago , his wife Baptista . 
Hamlet observed the king his uncle change colour at this expression , and that it was as bad as wormwood both to him and to the queen . 
The king being departed , the play was given over . 
The queen said that was but an idle answer . 
'As good as the question deserved , said Hamlet . 
The queen asked him if he had forgotten who it was he was speaking to ? 'Alas ! replied Hamlet , 'I wish I could forget . 
You are the queen , your husband's brother's wife and you are my mother I wish you were not what you are . 
But when he dragged for the body , it was not the king , but Polonius , the old officious counsellor , that had planted himself as a spy behind the hangings . 
Hamlet had gone too far to leave off here . 
He was now in the humour to speak plainly to his mother , and he pursued it . 
He said she had done such a deed , that the heavens blushed at it , and the earth was sick of her because of it . 
And then he showed her whom she had got in his stead how like a blight or a mildew he looked , for so he had blasted his wholesome brother . 
And the queen was sore ashamed that he should so turn her eyes inward upon her soul , which she now saw so black and deformed . 
And he bade her feel his pulse , how temperately it beat , not like a madman's . 
And she promising to observe his directions , the conference ended . 
The unfortunate death of Polonius gave the king a presence for sending Hamlet out of the kingdom . 
When he got home , a sad spectacle offered itself the first thing to his eyes . 
This was the funeral of the young and beautiful Ophelia , his once dear mistress . 
The wits of this young lady had begun to turn ever since her poor father's death . 
There was a willow which grew slanting over a brook , and reflected its leaves on the stream . 
It was the funeral of this fair maid which her brother Laertes was celebrating , the king and queen and whole court being present , when Hamlet arrived . 
He knew not what all this show imported , but stood on one side , not inclining to interrupt the ceremony . 
Thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife . 
And for the time these two noble youths seemed reconciled . 
But out of the grief and anger of Laertes for the death of his father and Ophelia , the king , Hamlet's wicked uncle , contrived destruction for Hamlet . 
At this match all the court was present , and Laertes , by direction of the king , prepared a poisoned weapon . 
In this instant the queen shrieked out that she was poisoned . 
He had forgotten to warn the queen of the bowl . 
which she drank of , and immediately died , exclaiming with her last breath that she was poisoned . 
Hamlet , suspecting some treachery , ordered the doors to be shut , while he sought it out . 
, and Horatio promised that he would make a true report , as one that was privy to all the circumstances . 
And , thus satisfied , the noble heart of Hamlet cracked and Horatio and the bystanders with many tears commended the spirit of this sweet prince to the guardianship of angels . 
OTHELLO Brabantio , the rich senator of Venice , had a fair daughter , the gentle Desdemona . 
She was sought to by divers suitors , both on account of her many virtuous qualities , and for her rich expectations . 
Neither is Desdemona to be altogether condemned for the unsuitableness of the person whom she selected for her lover . 
Bating that Othello was black , the noble Moor wanted nothing which might recommend him to the affections of the greatest lady . 
Neither Othello's colour nor his fortune were such that it could be hoped Brabantio would accept him for a con in law . 
had seduced the affections of the fair Desdemona to marry him , without the consent of her father , and against the obligations of hospitality . 
This difficulty being got over . 
before the indulgence of those idle delights in which new married people usually waste their time , cheerfully consented to his going . 
Among all the general's friends no one possessed the confidence of Othello more entirely than Cassio . 
, who had married a young and beautiful wife but Othello was as free from jealousy as he was noble , and as incapable of suspecting as of doing a base action . 
a courting for him such innocent simplicity being rather an honour than a blemish to the character of the valiant Moor . 
the gentle Desdemona loved and trusted Cassio . 
Nor had the marriage of this couple made any difference in their behaviour to Michael Cassio . 
Othello had lately promoted Cassio to be the lieutenant , a place of trust , and nearest to the general's person . 
Iago hated Cassio , and he hated Othello . 
as well for favouring Cassio , as for an unjust suspicion , which he had lightly taken up against Othello that the Moor was too fond of Iago's wife Emilia . 
From these imaginary provocations , the plotting mind of Iago conceived a horrid scheme of revenge , which should involve both Cassio , the Moor , and Desdemona , in one common ruin . 
, the pains of jealousy were the most intolerable , and had the sorest sting . 
The arrival of the general and his lady , in Cyprus , meeting with the news of the dispersion of the enemy's fleet , made a sort of holiday in the island . 
Everybody gave themselves up to feasting and making merry . 
Wine flowed in abundance , and cups went round to the health of the black Othello , and his lady the fair Desdemona . 
the alarm bell ringing awakened Othello , who , dressing in a hurry , and coming to the scene of action , questioned Cassio of the cause . 
in such a manner , as while he seemed to make Cassio's offence less , did indeed make it appear greater than it was . 
The result was , that Othello , who was a strict observer of discipline , was compelled to take away Cassio's place of lieutenant from him . 
Cassio , whom this misfortune had entirely sobered , now lamented to his seeming friend Iago that he should have been such a fool as to transform himself into a beast . 
He was undone , for how could he ask the general for his place again ? he would tell him he was a drunkard . 
A good advice of Iago , if it had not been given for wicked purposes , which will after appear . 
This she immediately set about in so earnest and pretty a manner , that Othello , who was mortally offended with Cassio , could not put her off . 
Then she showed how penitent and humbled poor Cassio was , and that his offence did not deserve so sharp a check . 
When I mean to try your love indeed , I shall ask a weighty matter . 
Othello could deny nothing to such a pleader , and only requesting that Desdemona would leave the time to him , promised to receive Michael Cassio again in favour . 
Othello took no great notice of what he said indeed , the conference which immediately took place with his lady put it out of his head but he remembered it afterwards . 
I must have proof before I think her dishonest . 
knew the dispositions of the Italian ladies , his countrywomen , better than Othello could do and that in Venice the wives let heaven see many pranks they dared not show their husbands . 
Then he artfully insinuated that Desdemona deceived her father in marrying with Othello , and carried it so closely , that the poor old man thought that witchcraft had been used . 
Poppy , nor the juice of mandragora , nor all the sleeping potions in the world , could ever again restore to him that sweet rest , which he had enjoyed but yesterday . 
His occupation sickened upon him . 
He no longer took delight in arms . 
Iago , feigning indignation that his honesty should be taken for a vice , asked Othello , if he had not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in his wife's hand . 
Othello answered , that he had given her such a one , and that it was his first gift . 
'That same handkerchief , said Iago , 'did I see Michael Cassio this day wipe his face with . 
, I will withdraw and devise some swift means of death for her . 
Trifles light as air are to the jealous proofs as strong as holy writ . 
A handkerchief of his wife's seen in Cassio's hand , was motive enough to the deluded Othello to pass sentence of death upon them both . 
without once inquiring how Cassio came by it . 
, and desired her to lend him her handkerchief to hold to his temples . 
'Not this , said Othello , 'but that handkerchief I gave you . 
Desdemona had it not about her . 
'How ? said Othello , 'this is a fault indeed . 
She dying gave it to me , and bade me , if I ever married , to give it to my wife . 
I did so take heed of it . 
Make it a darling as precious as your eye . 
'It is possible ? said the frighted lady . 
, till Othello in perfect distraction burst out of the room , and then Desdemona , though unwillingly , began to suspect that her lord was jealous . 
And she said 'Men are not gods , and we must not look for that observance from them when they are married , which they show us on the bridal day . 
And she beshrewed herself for so unkindly judging of his unkindness . 
And this was all the complaint which this gentle lady made . 
But when he saw her asleep , he thought he would not shed her blood , nor scar that white skin of hers , more white than alabaster . 
But he was resolved she should die else she would live to betray more men , as she had done him . 
, and that kiss was so sweet , that he must needs kiss her again and he wept , but he said they were cruel tears . 
, though not used to weep on every small occasion , dropped tears as fast as the Arabian trees their gum . 
And when he was dead all his former merits and his valiant acts were remembered . 
Upon receipt of these letters Pericles put out to sea again , amidst the blessings and prayers of a whole people who had been fed by his bounty . 
The fishermen told Pericles the name of their country was Pentapolis , and that their king was Simonides , commonly called the good Simonides , because of his peaceable reign and good government . 
When Pericles beheld his own armour , he said 'Thanks , Fortune after all my crosses you give me somewhat to repair myself . 
, yet did not Simonides disdain to accept of the valiant unknown for a son in law , when he perceived his daughter's affections were firmly fixed upon him . 
She held the babe towards its father , saying 'Here is a thing too young for such a place . 
This is the child of your dead queen . 
No tongue can tell the dreadful sufferings of Pericles when he heard his wife was dead . 
Patience , good sir , even for the sake of this precious charge . 
'Sir , said the sailors , 'your queen must overboard . 
The sea works high , the wind is loud , and the storm will not abate till the ship be cleared of the dead . 
Though Pericles knew how weak and unfounded this superstition was , yet he patiently submitted , saying 'As you think meet . 
O Lychorida , bid Nestor bring me spices , ink , and paper , my casket and my jewels , and bid Nicandor bring me the satin coffin . 
Lay the babe upon the pillow , and go about this suddenly , Lychorida , while I say a priestly farewell to my Thaisa . 
When the storm was over , Pericles ordered the sailors to make for Tarsus . 
'For , said Pericles , 'the babe cannot hold out till we come to Tyre . 
At Tarsus I will leave it at careful nursing . 
'I never saw , said one of them , 'so huge a billow as cast it on our shore . 
'Madam , said Cerimon , 'if you purpose as you speak , the temple of Diana is not far distant from hence there you may abide as a vestal . 
Moreover , if you please , a niece of mine shall there attend you . 
Should I rage and roar as the sea does in which my Thaisa lies , yet the end must be as it is . 
My gentle babe , Marina here , I must charge your charity with her . 
I leave her the infant of your care , beseeching you to give her princely training . 
must in your child be thought on . 
Pericles being thus assured that his child would be carefully attended to , left her to the protection of Cleon and his wife Dionysia , and with her he left the nurse Lychorida . 
When he went away , the little Marina knew not her loss , but Lychorida wept sadly at parting with her royal master . 
'O , no tears , Lychorida , said Pericles 'no tears look to your little mistress , on whose grace you may depend hereafter . 
Pericles arrived in safety at Tyre , and was once more settled in the quiet possession of his throne , while his woeful queen , whom he thought dead , remained at Ephesus . 
Her little babe Marina , whom this hapless mother had never seen , was brought up by Cleon in a manner suitable to her high birth . 
To encompass this she employed a man to murder Marina , and she well timed her wicked design , when Lychorida , the faithful nurse , had just died . 
Dionysia was discoursing with the man she had commanded to commit this murder , when the young Marina was weeping over the dead Lychorida . 
And so , in that one short sentence , was the matchless Marina doomed to an untimely death . 
She now approached , with a basket of flowers in her hand , which she said she would daily strew over the grave of good Lychorida . 
The purple violet and the marigold should as a carpet hang upon her grave , while summer days did last . 
'Alas , for me ! she said , 'poor unhappy maid , born in a tempest , when my mother died . 
This world to me is like a lasting storm , hurrying me from my friends . 
Your beauty is quite changed with this unprofitable woe . 
Come , give me your flowers , the sea air will spoil them and walk with Leonine the air is fine , and will enliven you . 
Come , Leonine , take her by the arm , and walk with her . 
'No , madam , said Marina , 'I pray you let me not deprive you of your servant' for Leonine was one of Dionysia's attendants . 
'Come , come , said this artful woman , who wished for a presence to leave her alone with Leonine , 'I love the prince , your father , and I love you . 
Go , I pray you , walk , and be cheerful once again . 
Be careful of that excellent complexion , which stole the hearts of old and young . 
Marina , being thus importuned , said 'Well , I will go , but yet I have no desire to it . 
As Dionysia walked away , she said to Leonine 'Remember what I have said ! shocking words , for their meaning was that he should remember to kill Marina . 
Marina looked towards the sea , her birthplace , and said 'Is the wind westerly that blows ? 'South west , replied Leonine . 
'When was this ? said Leonine . 
Lychorida had so often recounted to Marina the story of her hapless birth that these things seemed ever present to her imagination . 
But here Leonine interrupted her with desiring her to say her prayers . 
'What mean you ? said Marina , who began to fear , she knew not why . 
'Will you kill me ? said Marina 'alas ! why ? 'To satisfy my lady , replied Leonine . 
'Why would she have me killed ? said Marina 'now , as I can remember , I never hurt her in all my life . 
I never spake bad word , nor did any ill turn to any living creature . 
Believe me now , I never killed a mouse , nor hurt a fly . 
I trod upon a worm once against my will , but I wept for it . 
How have I offended ? The murderer replied 'My commission is not to reason on the deed , but to do it . 
And he was just going to kill her , when certain pirates happened to land at that very moment , who seeing Marina , bore her off as a prize to their ship . 
From the day he entered the ship a dull and heavy melancholy seized him . 
He never spoke , and seemed totally insensible to everything around him . 
'Sir , said Marina , 'I will use my utmost skill in his recovery , provided none but I and my maid be suffered to come near him . 
The long silent prince was once more heard to speak . 
'My dearest wife , said the awakened Pericles , 'was like this maid , and such a one might my daughter have been . 
My queen's square brows , her stature to an inch , as wand like straight , as silver voiced , her eyes as jewel like . 
Where do you live , young maid ? Report your parentage . 
I think you said you had been tossed from wrong to injury , and that you thought your griefs would equal mine , if both were opened . 
'Some such thing I said , replied Marina , 'and said no more than what my thoughts did warrant me as likely . 
How lost you your name , my most kind virgin ? Recount your story I beseech you . 
Come , sit by me . 
'Patience , good sir , said Marina , 'or I must cease here . 
'Nay , said Pericles , 'I will be patient you little know how you do startle me , to call yourself Marina . 
'The name , she replied , 'was given me by one that had some power , my father , and a king . 
My mother was the daughter of a king she died the minute I was born , as my good nurse Lychorida has often told me weeping . 
The king , my father , left me at Tarsus , till the cruel wife of Cleon sought to murder me . 
A crew of pirates came and rescued me , and brought me here to Mitylene . 
But , good sir , why do you weep ? It may be , you think me an impostor . 
But , indeed , sir , I am the daughter to king Pericles , if good king Pericles be living . 
O , come hither , thou that west born at sea , buried at Tarsus , and found at sea again . 
O Helicanus , down on your knees , thank the holy gods ! This is Marina . 
Now blessings on thee , my child ! Give me fresh garments , mine own Helicanus ! She is not dead at Tarsus as she should have been by the savage Dionysia . 
She shall tell you all , when you shall kneel to her and call her your very princess . 
'Sir , said Helicanus , 'it is the governor of Mitylene , who , hearing of your melancholy , came to see you . 
'I embrace you , sir , said Pericles . 
'My lord , I hear none , replied Helicanus . 
'None ? said Pericles 'why it is the music of the spheres . 
While he slept , Pericles dreamed a dream which made him resolve to go to Ephesus . 
When he awoke , being miraculously refreshed , he told his dream , and that his resolution was to obey the bidding of the goddess . 
Thaisa , unable to bear the transports which his words had raised in her , cried out 'You are , you are , O royal Pericles' and fainted . 
'What means this woman ? said Pericles 'she dies ! gentlemen , help . 
'Sir , said Cerimon , 'if you have told Diana's altar true , this is your wife . 
'Reverend gentleman , no , said Pericles 'I threw her overboard with these very arms . 
And now , Thaisa being restored from her swoon said 'O my lord , are you not Pericles ? Like him you speak , like him you are . 
'O true Diana ! exclaimed Pericles , in a passion of devout astonishment . 
'And now , said Thaisa , 'I know you better . 
Such a ring as I see on your finger did the king my father give you , when we with tears parted from him at Pentapolis . 
'Enough , you gods ! cried Pericles , 'your present kindness makes my past miseries sport . 
O come , Thaisa , be buried a second time within these arms . 
And Marina said 'My heart leaps to be gone into my mother's bosom . 
'Blessed and my own ! said Thaisa and while she hung in rapturous joy over her child , Pericles knelt before the altar , saying 'Pure Diana , bless thee for thy vision . 
For this , I will offer oblations nightly to thee . 
And then and there did Pericles , with the consent of Thaisa , solemnly affiance their daughter , the virtuous Marina , to the well deserving Lysimachus in marriage . 
, under the same guidance becoming finally successful , and triumphing over chance and change . 
In the worthy Cerimon , who restored Thaisa to life , we are instructed how goodness directed by knowledge , in bestowing benefits upon mankind , approaches to the nature of the gods . 
End of the Project Gutenberg Etext of Tales from Shakespeare This Etext created by Tokuya Matsumoto toqyam os . 
