THIS SIDE OF PARADISE By F. SCOTT FITZGERALD There's little comfort in the wise . 
Experience is the name so many people give to their mistakes . 
To SIGOURNEY FAY BIBLIOGRAPHIC RECORD CONTENTS BOOK ONE The Romantic Egotist . 
AMORY , SON OF BEATRICE . 
NARCISSUS OFF DUTY INTERLUDE MAY , FEBRUARY , . 
BOOK TWO The Education of a Personage . 
In consequence , Stephen Blaine handed down to posterity his height of just under six feet and his tendency to waver at crucial moments , these two abstractions appearing in his son Amory . 
She learned in England to prefer whiskey and soda to wine , and her small talk was broadened in two senses during a winter in Vienna . 
In her less important moments she returned to America , met Stephen Blaine and married him this almost entirely because she was a little bit weary , a little bit sad . 
Her only child was carried through a tiresome season and brought into the world on a spring day in ninety six . 
When Amory was five he was already a delightful companion for her . 
He was an auburn haired boy , with great , handsome eyes which he would grow up to in time , a facile imaginative mind and a taste for fancy dress . 
This trouble pleased her , and later she made use of it as an intrinsic part of her atmosphere especially after several astounding bracers . 
Dear , don't think of getting out of bed yet . 
I've always suspected that early rising in early life makes one nervous . 
Clothilde is having your breakfast brought up . 
I am feeling very old to day , Amory , she would sigh , her face a rare cameo of pathos , her voice exquisitely modulated , her hands as facile as Bernhardt's . 
My nerves are on edge on edge . 
We must leave this terrifying place to morrow and go searching for sunshine . 
Amory's penetrating green eyes would look out through tangled hair at his mother . 
Even at this age he had no illusions about her . 
I want you to take a red hot bath as hot as you can bear it , and just relax your nerves . 
You can read in the tub if you wish . 
She fed him sections of the Fjtes Galantes before he was ten at eleven he could talk glibly , if rather reminiscently , of Brahms and Mozart and Beethoven . 
One afternoon , when left alone in the hotel at Hot Springs , he sampled his mother's apricot cordial , and as the taste pleased him , he became quite tipsy . 
This was fun for a while , but he essayed a cigarette in his exaltation , and succumbed to a vulgar , plebeian reaction . 
Though this incident horrified Beatrice , it also secretly amused her and became part of what in a later generation would have been termed her line . 
Her hand was radiantly outlined against her beautiful bosom then sinking her voice to a whisper , she told them of the apricot cordial . 
They rejoiced , for she was a brave raconteuse , but many were the keys turned in sideboard locks that night against the possible defection of little Bobby or Barbara . 
These domestic pilgrimages were invariably in state two maids , the private car , or Mr. Blaine when available , and very often a physician . 
However , blood being thicker than broth , he was pulled through . 
The Blaines were attached to no city . 
They were the Blaines of Lake Geneva they had quite enough relatives to serve in place of friends , and an enviable standing from Pasadena to Cape Cod . 
Like Freudian dreams , they must be thrown off , else they would sweep in and lay siege to her nerves . 
But Beatrice was critical about American women , especially the floating population of ex Westerners . 
They have accents , my dear , she told Amory , not Southern accents or Boston accents , not an accent attached to any locality , just an accent she became dreamy . 
They pick up old , moth eaten London accents that are down on their luck and have to be used by some one . 
They talk as an English butler might after several years in a Chicago grand opera company . 
Still , next to doctors , priests were her favorite sport . 
Ah , Bishop Wiston , she would declare , I do not want to talk of myself . 
I can imagine the stream of hysterical women fluttering at your doors , beseeching you to be simpatico then after an interlude filled by the clergyman but my mood is oddly dissimilar . 
Only to bishops and above did she divulge her clerical romance . 
Eventually she had decided to marry for background , and the young pagan from Asheville had gone through a spiritual crisis , joined the Catholic Church , and was now Monsignor Dark . 
Indeed , Mrs. Blaine , he is still delightful company quite the cardinal's right hand man . 
Amory will go to him one day , I know , breathed the beautiful lady , and Monsignor Dark will understand him as he understood me . 
Amory became thirteen , rather tall and slender , and more than ever on to his Celtic mother . 
What a few more years of this life would have made of him is problematical . 
You will admit that if it was not life it was magnificent . 
There the crude , vulgar air of Western civilization first catches him in his underwear , so to speak . 
A KISS FOR AMORY His lip curled when he read it . 
Yours truly , R. S. V. P. Myra St . 
to the utter confusion of Mr. Reardon , whose accent Amory damned contemptuously , and to the delight of the class . 
Mr. Reardon , who had spent several weeks in Paris ten years before , took his revenge on the verbs , whenever he had his book open . 
Amory ingeniously tried to retrieve himself by blundering on purpose . 
Two years before he had commenced a history of the United States which , though it only got as far as the Colonial Wars , had been pronounced by his mother completely enchanting . 
The invitation to Miss Myra St . 
Claire's bobbing party spent the morning in his coat pocket , where it had an intense physical affair with a dusty piece of peanut brittle . 
Claire Your truly charming envitation for the evening of next Thursday evening was truly delightful to recieve this morning . 
I will be charm and inchanted indeed to present my compliments on next Thursday evening . 
He waited on the door step with his eyes nonchalantly half closed , and planned his entrance with precision . 
He would cross the floor , not too hastily , to Mrs. St . 
Claire , and say with exactly the correct modulation My dear Mrs. St . 
A butler swung open the door . 
Amory stepped inside and divested himself of cap and coat . 
He was mildly surprised not to hear the shrill squawk of conversation from the next room , and he decided it must be quite formal . 
He approved of thatas he approved of the butler . 
Miss Myra , he said . 
To his surprise the butler grinned horribly . 
Oh , yeah , he declared , she's here . 
He was unaware that his failure to be cockney was ruining his standing . 
But , continued the butler , his voice rising unnecessarily , she's the only one what is here . 
Amory gasped in sudden horror . 
What ? She's been waitin' for Amory Blaine . 
That's you , ain't it ? Her mother says that if you showed up by five thirty you two was to go after 'em in the Packard . 
Amory's despair was crystallized by the appearance of Myra herself , bundled to the ears in a polo coat , her face plainly sulky , her voice pleasant only with difficulty . 
He had described the state of his vitality . 
Wellyou got here , anyways . 
I guess you don't know about the auto accident , he romanced . 
Who was it to ? Well , he continued desperately , uncle 'n aunt 'n I. Was any one killed ? Amory paused and then nodded . 
Oh , nojust a horsea sorta gray horse . 
At this point the Erse butler snickered . 
Probably killed the engine , he suggested . 
Amory would have put him on the rack without a scruple . 
We'll go now , said Myra coolly . 
We'll catch the bob before it gets to the Minnehaha Club , Amory . 
Amory's shredded poise dropped from him . 
Oh , sure Mike , we'll catch 'em all rightlet's hurry . 
He became conscious of his stomach . 
As they stepped into the machine he hurriedly slapped the paint of diplomacy over a rather box like plan he had conceived . 
It was based upon some trade lasts gleaned at dancing school , to the effect that he was awful good looking and English , sort of . 
Myra , he said , lowering his voice and choosing his words carefully , I beg a thousand pardons . 
Yes , Myra could forgive him very easily . 
He looked at her again , and then dropped his eyes . 
I'm awful , he said sadly . 
I don't know why I make faux pas . 
'Cause I don't care , I s'pose . 
Then , recklessly I been smoking too much . 
Myra pictured an all night tobacco debauch , with Amory pale and reeling from the effect of nicotined lungs . 
She gave a little gasp . 
Oh , Amory , don't smoke . 
You'll stunt your growth ! I don't care , he persisted gloomily . 
I've done a lot of things that if my fambly knew he hesitated , giving her imagination time to picture dark horrors I went to the burlesque show last week . 
He turned the green eyes on her again . 
You're the only girl in town I like much , he exclaimed in a rush of sentiment . 
Myra was not sure that she was , but it sounded stylish though vaguely improper . 
Thick dusk had descended outside , and as the limousine made a sudden turn she was jolted against him their hands touched . 
You shouldn't smoke , Amory , she whispered . 
Don't you know that ? He shook his head . 
Oh , yes , you do ! You got a crush on Froggy Parker . 
I guess everybody knows that . 
No , I haven't , very slowly . 
A silence , while Amory thrilled . 
There was something fascinating about Myra , shut away here cosily from the dim , chill air . 
Myra , a little bundle of clothes , with strands of yellow hair curling out from under her skating cap . 
He reached over with a violent , jerky effort , and clutched Myra's handher thumb , to be exact . 
Tell him to go to the Minnehaha straight , he whispered . 
I wanta talk to youI got to talk to you . 
Myra made out the party ahead , had an instant vision of her mother , and thenalas for conventionglanced into the eyes beside . 
Turn down this side street , Richard , and drive straight to the Minnehaha Club ! she cried through the speaking tube . 
Amory sank back against the cushions with a sigh of relief . 
I can kiss her , he thought . 
I'll bet I can ! Overhead the sky was half crystalline , half misty , and the night around was chill and vibrant with rich tension . 
From the Country Club steps the roads stretched away , dark creases on the white blanket huge heaps of snow lining the sides like the tracks of giant moles . 
They lingered for a moment on the steps , and watched the white holiday moon . 
Pale moons like that one Amory made a vague gesture make people mysterieuse . 
You look like a young witch with her cap off and her hair sorta mussed her hands clutched at her hair Oh , leave it , it looks good . 
They drifted up the stairs and Myra led the way into the little den of his dreams , where a cosy fire was burning before a big sink down couch . 
A few years later this was to be a great stage for Amory , a cradle for many an emotional crisis . 
Now they talked for a moment about bobbing parties . 
There's always a bunch of shy fellas , he commented , sitting at the tail of the bob , sorta lurkin' an' whisperin' an' pushin' each other off . 
Then there's always some crazy cross eyed girl he gave a terrifying imitation she's always talkin' hard , sorta , to the chaperon . 
You're such a funny boy , puzzled Myra . 
How d'y' mean ? Amory gave immediate attention , on his own ground at last . 
Ohalways talking about crazy things . 
I like you first and second and third . 
What a story this would make to tell Marylyn ! Here on the couch with this wonderful looking boythe little firethe sense that they were alone in the great building Myra capitulated . 
The atmosphere was too appropriate . 
I like you the first twenty five , she confessed , her voice trembling , and Froggy Parker twenty sixth . 
Froggy had fallen twenty five places in one hour . 
As yet he had not even noticed it . 
But Amory , being on the spot , leaned over quickly and kissed Myra's cheek . 
He had never kissed a girl before , and he tasted his lips curiously , as if he had munched some new fruit . 
Then their lips brushed like young wild flowers in the wind . 
We're awful , rejoiced Myra gently . 
She slipped her hand into his , her head drooped against his shoulder . 
Sudden revulsion seized Amory , disgust , loathing for the whole incident . 
Her voice came out of a great void . 
I don't want to , he heard himself saying . 
I don't want to ! he repeated passionately . 
Myra sprang up , her cheeks pink with bruised vanity , the great bow on the back of her head trembling sympathetically . 
I hate you ! she cried . 
Don't you ever dare to speak to me again ! What ? stammered Amory . 
The door opened suddenly , and Myra's mother appeared on the threshold , fumbling with her lorgnette . 
Well , she began , adjusting it benignantly , the man at the desk told me you two children were up here How do you do , Amory . 
Amory watched Myra and waited for the crashbut none came . 
The pout faded , the high pink subsided , and Myra's voice was placid as a summer lake when she answered her mother . 
Casey Jonesmounted to the cab un Took his farewell journey to the prom ised land . 
SNAPSHOTS OF THE YOUNG EGOTIST Amory spent nearly two years in Minneapolis . 
His dog , Count Del Monte , ate the red cap , so his uncle gave him a gray one that pulled down over his face . 
The trouble with this one was that you breathed into it and your breath froze one day the darn thing froze his cheek . 
He rubbed snow on his cheek , but it turned bluish black just the same . 
The Count Del Monte ate a box of bluing once , but it didn't hurt him . 
Later , however , he lost his mind and ran madly up the street , bumping into fences , rolling in gutters , and pursuing his eccentric course out of Amory's life . 
Amory cried on his bed . 
Poor little Count , he cried . 
Oh , poor little Count ! After several months he suspected Count of a fine piece of emotional acting . 
Amory and Frog Parker considered that the greatest line in literature occurred in Act III of Arsene Lupin . 
They sat in the first row at the Wednesday and Saturday matinies . 
The line was If one can't be a great artist or a great soldier , the next best thing is to be a great criminal . 
Amory fell in love again , and wrote a poem . 
This was it Marylyn and Sallee , Those are the girls for me . 
Marylyn stands above Sallee in that sweet , deep love . 
, The Fall of the House of Usher , Three Weeks , Mary Ware , the Little Colonel's Chum , Gunga Din , The Police Gazette , and Jim Jam Jems . 
He had all the Henty biasses in history , and was particularly fond of the cheerful murder stories of Mary Roberts Rinehart . 
School ruined his French and gave him a distaste for standard authors . 
His masters considered him idle , unreliable and superficially clever . 
He collected locks of hair from many girls . 
He wore the rings of several . 
Finally he could borrow no more rings , owing to his nervous habit of chewing them out of shape . 
This , it seemed , usually aroused the jealous suspicions of the next borrower . 
All through the summer months Amory and Frog Parker went each week to the Stock Company . 
Afterward they would stroll home in the balmy air of August night , dreaming along Hennepin and Nicollet Avenues , through the gay crowd . 
It was always the becoming he dreamed of , never the being . 
This , too , was quite characteristic of Amory . 
Amory marked himself a fortunate youth , capable of infinite expansion for good or evil . 
He was proud of the fact that he could never become a mechanical or scientific genius . 
From no other heights was he debarred . 
Amory thought that he was exceedingly handsome . 
He fancied himself an athlete of possibilities and a supple dancer . 
Here his condition was , perhaps , most dangerous . 
He granted himself personality , charm , magnetism , poise , the power of dominating all contemporary males , the gift of fascinating all women . 
Now a confession will have to be made . 
Amory had rather a Puritan conscience . 
Not that he yielded to itlater in life he almost completely slew itbut at fifteen it made him consider himself a great deal worse than other boys . 
the desire to influence people in almost every way , even for evil . 
a certain coldness and lack of affection , amounting sometimes to cruelty . 
a shifting sense of honor . 
a puzzled , furtive interest in everything concerning sex . 
There was , also , a curious strain of weakness running crosswise through his make up . 
was liable to sweep him off his poise into surly sensitiveness , or timid stupidity . 
he was a slave to his own moods and he felt that though he was capable of recklessness and audacity , he possessed neither courage , perseverance , nor self respect . 
with this background did Amory drift into adolescence . 
PREPARATORY TO THE GREAT ADVENTURE The train slowed up with midsummer languor at Lake Geneva , and Amory caught sight of his mother waiting in her electric on the gravelled station drive . 
It was an ancient electric , one of the early types , and painted gray . 
As they kissed coolly and he stepped into the electric , he felt a quick fear lest he had lost the requisite charm to measure up to her . 
look behind and see if there's anything coming . 
Beatrice was what might be termed a careful driver . 
You are tallbut you're still very handsomeyou've skipped the awkward age , or is that sixteen perhaps it's fourteen or fifteen I can never remember but you've skipped it . 
Don't embarrass me , murmured Amory . 
But , my dear boy , what odd clothes ! They look as if they were a setdon't they ? Is your underwear purple , too ? Amory grunted impolitely . 
You must go to Brooks' and get some really nice suits . 
Oh , we'll have a talk to night or perhaps to morrow night . 
I want to tell you about your heartyou've probably been neglecting your heartand you don't know . 
Amory thought how superficial was the recent overlay of his own generation . 
Aside from a minute shyness , he felt that the old cynical kinship with his mother had not been one bit broken . 
It was on one of the shadowy paths that Beatrice at last captured Amory , after Mr. Blaine had , as usual , retired for the evening to his private library . 
After reproving him for avoiding her , she took him for a long t circ te tjte in the moonlight . 
He could not reconcile himself to her beauty , that was mother to his own , the exquisite neck and shoulders , the grace of a fortunate woman of thirty . 
Amory , dear , she crooned softly , I had such a strange , weird time after I left you . 
Did you , Beatrice ? When I had my last breakdown she spoke of it as a sturdy , gallant feat . 
Amory winced , and wondered how this would have sounded to Froggy Parker . 
Yes , continued Beatrice tragically , I had dreamswonderful visions . 
She pressed the palms of her hands into her eyes . 
I saw bronze rivers lapping marble shores , and great birds that soared through the air , parti colored birds with iridescent plumage . 
I heard strange music and the flare of barbaric trumpetswhat ? Amory had snickered . 
What , Amory ? I said go on , Beatrice . 
I am not understood , Amory . 
I know that can't express it to you , Amory , butI am not understood . 
He put his arm around his mother , rubbing his head gently against her shoulder . 
Tell me about you , Amory . 
Did you have two horrible years ? Amory considered lying , and then decided against it . 
I adapted myself to the bourgeoisie . 
He surprised himself by saying that , and he pictured how Froggy would have gaped . 
Beatrice , he said suddenly , I want to go away to school . 
Everybody in Minneapolis is going to go away to school . 
Yes , but everybody goes away to school at fifteen , and I want to , Beatrice . 
If you still want to , you can go to school . 
Amory felt a quick excitement . 
It's being arranged , continued Beatrice . 
It's better that you should go away . 
What are you going to do , Beatrice ? Heaven knows . 
It seems my fate to fret away my years in this country . 
She would not have appreciated the Japanese invasion . 
When do I go to school ? Next month . 
You'll have to start East a little early to take your examinations . 
After that you'll have a free week , so I want you to go up the Hudson and pay a visit . 
To who ? To Monsignor Darcy , Amory . 
He wants to see you . 
He went to Harrow and then to Yalebecame a Catholic . 
I want him to talk to youI feel he can be such a help She stroked his auburn hair gently . 
, set out for New England , the land of schools . 
There were Andover and Exeter with their memories of New England deadlarge , college like democracies St . 
Mark's , Groton , St . 
Regis'recruited from Boston and the Knickerbocker families of New York St . 
Paul's , with its great rinks Pomfret and St . 
Regis' Amory stayed three days and took his exams with a scoffing confidence , then doubling back to New York to pay his tutelary visit . 
Indeed , his mind was so crowded with dreams of athletic prowess at school that he considered this visit only as a rather tiresome prelude to the great adventure . 
This , however , it did not prove to be . 
Monsignor was forty four then , and bustlinga trifle too stout for symmetry , with hair the color of spun gold , and a brilliant , enveloping personality . 
When he came into a room clad in his full purple regalia from thatch to toe , he resembled a Turner sunset , and attracted both admiration and attention . 
He was intensely ritualistic , startlingly dramatic , loved the idea of God enough to be a celibate , and rather liked his neighbor . 
Children adored him because he was like a child youth revelled in his company because he was still a youth , and couldn't be shocked . 
clergyman , making a great mystery about pulling rusty wires , and appreciating life to the fullest , if not entirely enjoying it . 
My dear boy , I've been waiting to see you for years . 
Take a big chair and we'll have a chat . 
I've just come from schoolSt . 
So your mother saysa remarkable woman have a cigaretteI'm sure you smoke . 
Well , if you're like me , you loathe all science and mathematics Amory nodded vehemently . 
You'll hate school for a while , too , but I'm glad you're going to St . 
Why ? Because it's a gentleman's school , and democracy won't hit you so early . 
You'll find plenty of that in college . 
I want to go to Princeton , said Amory . 
I don't know why , but I think of all Harvard men as sissies , like I used to be , and all Yale men as wearing big blue sweaters and smoking pipes . 
I'm one , you know . 
Oh , you're differentI think of Princeton as being lazy and good looking and aristocraticyou know , like a spring day . 
Harvard seems sort of indoors And Yale is November , crisp and energetic , finished Monsignor . 
They slipped briskly into an intimacy from which they never recovered . 
I was for Bonnie Prince Charlie , announced Amory . 
Of course you wereand for Hannibal Yes , and for the Southern Confederacy . 
He comes here for a rest , said Monsignor confidentially , treating Amory as a contemporary . 
Their first luncheon was one of the memorable events of Amory's early life . 
He was quite radiant and gave off a peculiar brightness and charm . 
Monsignor called out the best that he had thought by question and suggestion , and Amory talked with an ingenious brilliance of a thousand impulses and desires and repulsions and faiths and fears . 
In all , a wonderful week , that saw Amory's mind turned inside out , a hundred of his theories confirmed , and his joy of life crystallized to a thousand ambitions . 
But the trumpets were sounding for Amory's preliminary skirmish with his own generation . 
You're not sorry to go , of course . 
With people like us our home is where we are not , said Monsignor . 
I am sorry No , you're not . 
No one person in the world is necessary to you or to me . 
THE EGOTIST DOWN Amory's two years at St . 
We have no Eton to create the self consciousness of a governing class we have , instead , clean , flaccid and innocuous preparatory schools . 
He went all wrong at the start , was generally considered both conceited and arrogant , and universally detested . 
He played football intensely , alternating a reckless brilliancy with a tendency to keep himself as safe from hazard as decency would permit . 
He was resentful against all those in authority over him , and this , combined with a lazy indifference toward his work , exasperated every master in school . 
He grew discouraged and imagined himself a pariah took to sulking in corners and reading after lights . 
He was unbearably lonely , desperately unhappy . 
There were some few grains of comfort . 
But Doctor Dougall was wrong . 
It was temperamentally impossible for Amory to get the best marks in school . 
Miserable , confined to bounds , unpopular with both faculty and studentsthat was Amory's first term . 
But at Christmas he had returned to Minneapolis , tight lipped and strangely jubilant . 
Oh , I was sort of fresh at first , he told Frog Parker patronizingly , but I got along finelightest man on the squad . 
You ought to go away to school , Froggy . 
Amory suspected that advice was forthcoming , but he determined to be courteous , because this Mr. Margotson had been kindly disposed toward him . 
His summoner received him gravely , and motioned him to a chair . 
He hemmed several times and looked consciously kind , as a man will when he knows he's on delicate ground . 
I've sent for you on a personal matter . 
I've noticed you this year and II like you . 
I think you have in you the makings of aa very good man . 
Yes , sir , Amory managed to articulate . 
He hated having people talk as if he were an admitted failure . 
But I've noticed , continued the older man blindly , that you're not very popular with the boys . 
AhI thought you might not understand exactly what it was theyahobjected to . 
I'm going to tell you , because I believeahthat when a boy knows his difficulties he's better able to cope with themto conform to what others expect of him . 
He a hemmed again with delicate reticence , and continued They seem to think that you'reahrather too fresh Amory could stand no more . 
He rose from his chair , scarcely controlling his voice when he spoke . 
I knowoh , don't you s'pose I know . 
I know what they think do you s'pose you have to tell me ! He paused . 
I'mI've got to go back nowhope I'm not rude He left the room hurriedly . 
In the cool air outside , as he walked to his house , he exulted in his refusal to be helped . 
That damn old fool ! he cried wildly . 
INCIDENT OF THE WONDERFUL GIRL There was a bright star in February . 
New York burst upon him on Washington's Birthday with the brilliance of a long anticipated event . 
The play was The Little Millionaire , with George M. Cohan , and there was one stunning young brunette who made him sit with brimming eyes in the ecstasy of watching her dance . 
Ohyouwonderful girl , What a wonderful girl you are sang the tenor , and Amory agreed silently , but passionately . 
Paskert and he walked in silence toward their hotel . 
The former was the first to speak . 
His uncertain fifteen year old voice broke in in a melancholy strain on Amory's musings I'd marry that girl to night . 
There was no need to ask what girl he referred to . 
I'd be proud to take her home and introduce her to my people , continued Paskert . 
He wished he had said it instead of Paskert . 
They wandered on , mixing in the Broadway crowd , dreaming on the music that eddied out of the cafis . 
New faces flashed on and off like myriad lights , pale or rouged faces , tired , yet sustained by a weary excitement . 
Amory watched them in fascination . 
He was planning his life . 
Yes , sir , I'd marry that girl to night ! HEROIC IN GENERAL TONE October of his second and last year at St . 
Regis' was a high point in Amory's memory . 
finally bruised and weary , but still elusive , circling an end , twisting , changing pace , straight arming . 
falling behind the Groton goal with two men on his legs , in the only touchdown of the game . 
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE SLICKER From the scoffing superiority of sixth form year and success Amory looked back with cynical wonder on his status of the year before . 
He was changed as completely as Amory Blaine could ever be changed . 
Amory plus Beatrice plus two years in Minneapolisthese had been his ingredients when he entered St . 
But the Minneapolis years were not a thick enough overlay to conceal the Amory plus Beatrice from the ferreting eyes of a boarding school , so St . 
Regis' had very painfully drilled Beatrice out of him , and begun to lay down new and more conventional planking on the fundamental Amory . 
Regis' and Amory were unconscious of the fact that this fundamental Amory had not in himself changed . 
Regis Tattler it puzzled him to see impressionable small boys imitating the very vanities that had not long ago been contemptible weaknesses . 
After the football season he slumped into dreamy content . 
The night of the pre holiday dance he slipped away and went early to bed for the pleasure of hearing the violin music cross the grass and come surging in at his window . 
In the spring he read L'Allegro , by request , and was inspired to lyrical outpourings on the subject of Arcady and the pipes of Pan . 
As the swing reached its highest point , Arcady really lay just over the brow of a certain hill , where the brown road dwindled out of sight in a golden dot . 
Of all his class work only L'Allegro and some quality of rigid clarity in solid geometry stirred his languid interest . 
Got tobacco ? whispered Rahill one night , putting his head inside the door five minutes after lights . 
Take a couple of pillows and lie in the window seat , why don't you . 
Amory sat up in bed and lit a cigarette while Rahill settled for a conversation . 
Rahill's favorite subject was the respective futures of the sixth form , and Amory never tired of outlining them for his benefit . 
Ted Converse ? 'At's easy . 
He'll fail his exams , tutor all summer at Harstrum's , get into Sheff with about four conditions , and flunk out in the middle of the freshman year . 
Then he'll go back West and raise hell for a year or so finally his father will make him go into the paint business . 
He'll marry and have four sons , all bone heads . 
Regis's spoiled him , so he'll send his sons to day school in Portland . 
How about yourself ? I'm in a superior class . 
You've got a darn good head on you . 
But Amory knew that nothing in the abstract , no theory or generality , ever moved Rahill until he stubbed his toe upon the concrete minutif of it . 
I let people impose on me here and don't get anything out of it . 
I want to get where everybody does their own work and I can tell people where to go . 
I'm tired of being nice to every poor fish in school . 
You're not a slicker , said Amory suddenly . 
A what ? A slicker . 
What the devil's that ? Well , it's something thatthatthere's a lot of them . 
You're not one , and neither am I , though I am more than you are . 
Who is one ? What makes you one ? Amory considered . 
Whywhy , I suppose that the sign of it is when a fellow slicks his hair back with water . 
They spent two evenings getting an exact definition . 
The slickers of that year had adopted tortoise shell spectacles as badges of their slickerhood , and this made them so easy to recognize that Amory and Rahill never missed one . 
The slicker seemed distributed through school , always a little wiser and shrewder than his contemporaries , managing some team or other , and keeping his cleverness carefully concealed . 
This was a first real break from the hypocrisy of school tradition . 
The slicker was a definite element of success , differing intrinsically from the prep school big man . 
Clever sense of social values . 
Pretends that dress is superficialbut knows that it isn't . 
Goes into such activities as he can shine in . 
Gets to college and is , in a worldly way , successful . 
Inclined to stupidity and unconscious of social values . 
Thinks dress is superficial , and is inclined to be careless about it . 
Goes out for everything from a sense of duty . 
Gets to college and has a problematical future . 
Feels lost without his circle , and always says that school days were happiest , after all . 
Goes back to school and makes speeches about what St . 
Amory had decided definitely on Princeton , even though he would be the only boy entering that year from St . 
Yale had a romance and glamour from the tales of Minneapolis , and St . 
Dwarfed by the menacing college exams , Amory's school days drifted into the past . 
Years afterward , when he went back to St . 
Gradually he realized that he was really walking up University Place , self conscious about his suitcase , developing a new tendency to glare straight ahead when he passed any one . 
Several times he could have sworn that men turned to look at him critically . 
He wondered vaguely if there was something the matter with his clothes , and wished he had shaved that morning on the train . 
He felt unnecessarily stiff and awkward among these white flannelled , bareheaded youths , who must be juniors and seniors , judging from the savoir faire with which they strolled . 
He found that University Place was a large , dilapidated mansion , at present apparently uninhabited , though he knew it housed usually a dozen freshmen . 
This sounded familiar , so he sauntered in and took a seat on a high stool . 
Chocolate sundae , he told a colored person . 
Double chocolate jiggah ? Anything else ? Whyyes . 
He munched four of these , finding them of pleasing savor , and then consumed another double chocolate jigger before ease descended upon him . 
Gradually he was learning to distinguish between upper classmen and entering men , even though the freshman cap would not appear until the following Monday . 
At five o'clock he felt the need of hearing his own voice , so he retreated to his house to see if any one else had arrived . 
Having climbed the rickety stairs he scrutinized his room resignedly , concluding that it was hopeless to attempt any more inspired decoration than class banners and tiger pictures . 
There was a tap at the door . 
Come in ! A slim face with gray eyes and a humorous smile appeared in the doorway . 
Got a hammer ? Nosorry . 
Maybe Mrs. Twelve , or whatever she goes by , has one . 
The stranger advanced into the room . 
You an inmate of this asylum ? Amory nodded . 
Awful barn for the rent we pay . 
Amory had to agree that it was . 
I thought of the campus , he said , but they say there's so few freshmen that they're lost . 
Have to sit around and study for something to do . 
The gray eyed man decided to introduce himself . 
They shook hands with the fashionable low swoop . 
Where'd you prep ? Andoverwhere did you ? St . 
Oh , did you ? I had a cousin there . 
They discussed the cousin thoroughly , and then Holiday announced that he was to meet his brother for dinner at six . 
Come along and have a bite with us . 
I hear Commons is pretty bad , said Amory . 
But you've got to eat thereor pay anyways . 
Crime ! Imposition ! Oh , at Princeton you've got to swallow everything the first year . 
It's like a damned prep school . 
Lot of pep , though , he insisted . 
I wouldn't have gone to Yale for a million . 
You going out for anything ? inquired Amory of the elder brother . 
Not meBurne here is going out for the Princethe Daily Princetonian , you know . 
You going out for anything ? Whyyes . 
I'm going to take a whack at freshman football . 
Regis's ? Some , admitted Amory depreciatingly , but I'm getting so damned thin . 
Well , I used to be stocky last fall . 
This was followed by an indistinguishable song that included much stamping and then by an endless , incoherent dirge . 
Want a sundaeI mean a jigger ? asked Kerry . 
They suppered heavily and then , still sauntering , eased back to Wonderful night . 
You men going to unpack ? Guess so . 
Amory decided to sit for a while on the front steps , so he bade them good night . 
The great tapestries of trees had darkened to ghosts back at the last edge of twilight . 
Going backgoing back , From allthisearth lyball , We'llclearthetrackaswegoback GoingbacktoNas sauHall ! Amory closed his eyes as the ghostly procession drew near . 
The song soared so high that all dropped out except the tenors , who bore the melody triumphantly past the danger point and relinquished it to the fantastic chorus . 
Then Amory opened his eyes , half afraid that sight would spoil the rich illusion of harmony . 
The minutes passed and Amory sat there very quietly . 
First it was schools , and Amory , alone from St . 
Regis' , watched the crowds form and widen and form again St . 
From the moment he realized this Amory resented social barriers as artificial distinctions made by the strong to bolster up their weak retainers and keep out the almost strong . 
This forced him to retire and consider the situation . 
Univee housed a dozen miscellaneous question marks . 
, a Jewish youth , also from New York , and , as compensation for Amory , the two Holidays , to whom he took an instant fancy . 
The Holidays were rumored twins , but really the dark haired one , Kerry , was a year older than his blond brother , Burne . 
Amory spread the table of their future friendship with all his ideas of what college should and did mean . 
In December he came down with diphtheria , and some one else won the competition , but , returning to college in February , he dauntlessly went after the prize again . 
Amory was far from contented . 
He missed the place he had won at St . 
Anything which brought an under classman into too glaring a light was labelled with the damning brand of running it out . 
Amory found that writing for the Nassau Literary Magazine would get him nothing , but that being on the board of the Daily Princetonian would get any one a good deal . 
We're the damned middle class , that's what ! he complained to Kerry one day as he lay stretched out on the sofa , consuming a family of Fatimas with contemplative precision . 
I like having a bunch of hot cats on top , but gosh , Kerry , I've got to be one of them . 
But just now , Amory , you're only a sweaty bourgeois . 
Amory lay for a moment without speaking . 
I won't belong , he said finally . 
But I hate to get anywhere by working for it . 
I'll show the marks , don't you know . 
Kerry craned his neck suddenly at the street . 
There's Langueduc , if you want to see what he looks likeand Humbird just behind . 
Amory rose dynamically and sought the windows . 
Oh , he said , scrutinizing these worthies , Humbird looks like a knockout , but this Langueduche's the rugged type , isn't he ? I distrust that sort . 
All diamonds look big in the rough . 
Well , said Kerry , as the excitement subsided , you're a literary genius . 
I wonder Amory paused if I could be . 
I honestly think so sometimes . 
That sounds like the devil , and I wouldn't say it to anybody except you . 
Let your hair grow and write poems like this guy D'Invilliers in the Lit . 
Amory reached lazily at a pile of magazines on the table . 
Read his latest effort ? Never miss 'em . 
Amory glanced through the issue . 
Hello ! he said in surprise , he's a freshman , isn't he ? Yeah . 
It's pretty tricky , said Kerry , only you've got to think of hearses and stale milk when you read it . 
That isn't as pash as some of them . 
Amory tossed the magazine on the table . 
Well , he sighed , I sure am up in the air . 
I know I'm not a regular fellow , yet I loathe anybody else that isn't . 
I can't decide whether to cultivate my mind and be a great dramatist , or to thumb my nose at the Golden Treasury and be a Princeton slicker . 
Why decide ? suggested Kerry . 
Better drift , like me . 
I'm going to sail into prominence on Burne's coat tails . 
I can't driftI want to be interested . 
I want to pull strings , even for somebody else , or be Princetonian chairman or Triangle president . 
I want to be admired , Kerry . 
You're thinking too much about yourself . 
Amory sat up at this . 
No. I'm thinking about you , too . 
We've got to get out and mix around the class right now , when it's fun to be a snob . 
Amory , said Kerry impatiently , you're just going around in a circle . 
If you want to be prominent , get out and try for something if you don't , just take it easy . 
Come on , let's let the smoke drift off . 
We'll go down and watch football practice . 
Amory gradually accepted this point of view , decided that next fall would inaugurate his career , and relinquished himself to watching Kerry extract joy from Univee . 
Say , who are all these women ? demanded Kerry one day , protesting at the size of Amory's mail . 
I've been looking at the postmarks latelyFarmington and Dobbs and Westover and Dana Hallwhat's the idea ? Amory grinned . 
All from the Twin Cities . 
There's Marylyn De Wittshe's pretty , got a car of her own and that's damn convenient there's Sally Weatherbyshe's getting too fat there's Myra St . 
Claire , she's an old flame , easy to kiss if you like it What line do you throw 'em ? demanded Kerry . 
I've tried everything , and the mad wags aren't even afraid of me . 
You're the 'nice boy' type , suggested Amory . 
Mother always feels the girl is safe if she's with me . 
If I start to hold somebody's hand , they laugh at me , and let me , just as if it wasn't part of them . 
As soon as I get hold of a hand they sort of disconnect it from the rest of them . 
Tell 'em you're wild and have 'em reform yougo home furiouscome back in half an hourstartle 'em . 
Timothy girl a really loving letter last year . 
I'm just 'good old Kerry' and all that rot . 
Amory smiled and tried to picture himself as good old Amory . 
February dripped snow and rain , the cyclonic freshman mid years passed , and life in Univee continued interesting if not purposeful . 
Once a day Amory indulged in a club sandwich , cornflakes , and Julienne potatoes at Joe's , accompanied usually by Kerry or Alec Connage . 
Joe's was unfsthetic and faintly unsanitary , but a limitless charge account could be opened there , a convenience that Amory appreciated . 
His father had been experimenting with mining stocks and , in consequence , his allowance , while liberal , was not at all what he had expected . 
Joe's had the additional advantage of seclusion from curious upper class eyes , so at four each afternoon Amory , accompanied by friend or book , went up to experiment with his digestion . 
One day in March , finding that all the tables were occupied , he slipped into a chair opposite a freshman who bent intently over a book at the last table . 
the other freshman , also intent on his volume , meanwhile did away with a trio of chocolate malted milks . 
By and by Amory's eyes wandered curiously to his fellow luncher's book . 
He spelled out the name and title upside down Marpessa , by Stephen Phillips . 
Are you referring to your bacon buns ? His cracked , kindly voice went well with the large spectacles and the impression of a voluminous keenness that he gave . 
I was referring to Bernard Shaw . 
He turned the book around in explanation . 
I've never read any Shaw . 
The boy paused and then continued Did you ever read Stephen Phillips , or do you like poetry ? Yes , indeed , Amory affirmed eagerly . 
I've never read much of Phillips , though . 
It's pretty fair , I think . 
Of course he's a Victorian . 
Still , he liked books , and it seemed forever since Amory had met any one who did if only that St . 
Paul's crowd at the next table would not mistake him for a bird , too , he would enjoy the encounter tremendously . 
D'Invilliers was partially taken in and wholly delighted . 
Ever read any Oscar Wilde ? he asked . 
No. Who wrote it ? It's a mandon't you know ? Oh , surely . 
A faint chord was struck in Amory's memory . 
Wasn't the comic opera , 'Patience , written about him ? Yes , that's the fella . 
I've just finished a book of his , 'The Picture of Dorian Gray , and I certainly wish you'd read it . 
You can borrow it if you want to . 
Why , I'd like it a lotthanks . 
Don't you want to come up to the room ? I've got a few other books . 
Amory hesitated , glanced at the St . 
Paul's groupone of them was the magnificent , exquisite Humbirdand he considered how determinate the addition of this friend would be . 
So he found Dorian Gray and the Mystic and Somber Dolores and the Belle Dame sans Merci for a month was keen on naught else . 
Tom D'Invilliers became at first an occasion rather than a friend . 
Amory liked him for being clever and literary without effeminacy or affectation . 
Kerry read Dorian Gray and simulated Lord Henry , following Amory about , addressing him as Dorian and pretending to encourage in him wicked fancies and attenuated tendencies to ennui . 
When he carried it into Commons , to the amazement of the others at table , Amory became furiously embarrassed , and after that made epigrams only before D'Invilliers or a convenient mirror . 
One day Tom and Amory tried reciting their own and Lord Dunsany's poems to the music of Kerry's graphophone . 
Don't recite ! Chant ! Amory , who was performing , looked annoyed , and claimed that he needed a record with less piano in it . 
Kerry thereupon rolled on the floor in stifled laughter . 
Put on 'Hearts and Flowers' ! he howled . 
Oh , my Lord , I'm going to cast a kitten . 
Shut off the damn graphophone , Amory cried , rather red in the face . 
I'm not giving an exhibition . 
This caused mild titters among the other freshmen , who called them Doctor Johnson and Boswell . 
Alec Connage , another frequent visitor , liked him in a vague way , but was afraid of him as a highbrow . 
That's good , Kerry would say softly . 
It pleases the elder Holiday . 
That's a great poet , I guess . 
Tom , delighted at an audience , would ramble through the Poems and Ballades until Kerry and Amory knew them almost as well as he . 
May came too soon , and suddenly unable to bear walls , he wandered the campus at all hours through starlight and rain . 
A DAMP SYMBOLIC INTERLUDE The night mist fell . 
From the moon it rolled , clustered about the spires and towers , and then settled below them , so that the dreaming peaks were still in lofty aspiration toward the sky . 
Figures that dotted the day like ants now brushed along as shadowy ghosts , in and out of the foreground . 
The Gothic halls and cloisters were infinitely more mysterious as they loomed suddenly out of the darkness , outlined each by myriad faint squares of yellow light . 
Indefinitely from somewhere a bell boomed the quarter hour , and Amory , pausing by the sun dial , stretched himself out full length on the damp grass . 
The cool bathed his eyes and slowed the flight of timetime that had crept so insidiously through the lazy April afternoons , seemed so intangible in the long spring twilights . 
He liked knowing that Gothic architecture , with its upward trend , was peculiarly appropriate to universities , and the idea became personal to him . 
Damn it all , he whispered aloud , wetting his hands in the damp and running them through his hair . 
Next year I work ! Yet he knew that where now the spirit of spires and towers made him dreamily acquiescent , it would then overawe him . 
Where now he realized only his own inconsequence , effort would make him aware of his own impotency and insufficiency . 
He felt a nervous excitement that might have been the very throb of its slow heart . 
It was a stream where he was to throw a stone whose faint ripple would be vanishing almost as it left his hand . 
As yet he had given nothing , he had taken nothing . 
A belated freshman , his oilskin slicker rasping loudly , slushed along the soft path . 
A voice from somewhere called the inevitable formula , Stick out your head ! below an unseen window . 
A hundred little sounds of the current drifting on under the fog pressed in finally on his consciousness . 
Oh , God ! he cried suddenly , and started at the sound of his voice in the stillness . 
A minute longer he lay without moving , his hands clinched . 
Then he sprang to his feet and gave his clothes a tentative pat . 
I'm very damn wet ! he said aloud to the sun dial . 
HISTORICAL The war began in the summer following his freshman year . 
Beyond a sporting interest in the German dash for Paris the whole affair failed either to thrill or interest him . 
With the attitude he might have held toward an amusing melodrama he hoped it would be long and bloody . 
If it had not continued he would have felt like an irate ticket holder at a prize fight where the principals refused to mix it up . 
That was his total reaction . 
We'll take the pirate song . 
A great , seething ant hill was the Triangle Club . 
It gave a musical comedy every year , travelling with cast , chorus , orchestra , and scenery all through Christmas vacation . 
The play and music were the work of undergraduates , and the club itself was the most influential of institutions , over three hundred men competing for it every year . 
Amory , after an easy victory in the first sophomore Princetonian competition , stepped into a vacancy of the cast as Boiling Oil , a Pirate Lieutenant . 
A rare scene , the Casino . 
Ha Ha Hortense ! was written over six times and had the names of nine collaborators on the programme . 
It is also a tradition that the members are invariably successful in later life , amassing fortunes or votes or coupons or whatever they choose to amass . 
It was claimed though never proved that on one occasion the hired Elis were swelled by one of the real thing . 
They played through vacation to the fashionable of eight cities . 
Amory liked Louisville and Memphis best these knew how to meet strangers , furnished extraordinary punch , and flaunted an astonishing array of feminine beauty . 
In Baltimore , Princeton was at home , and every one fell in love . 
There was a proper consumption of strong waters all along the line one man invariably went on the stage highly stimulated , claiming that his particular interpretation of the part required it . 
When the disbanding came , Amory set out posthaste for Minneapolis , for Sally Weatherby's cousin , Isabelle Borgi , was coming to spend the winter in Minneapolis while her parents went abroad . 
He remembered Isabelle only as a little girl with whom he had played sometimes when he first went to Minneapolis . 
She had gone to Baltimore to livebut since then she had developed a past . 
Amory was in full stride , confident , nervous , and jubilant . 
sat in the train , and thought about himself for thirty six hours . 
PETTING On the Triangle trip Amory had come into constant contact with that great current American phenomenon , the petting party . 
None of the Victorian mothersand most of the mothers were Victorianhad any idea how casually their daughters were accustomed to be kissed . 
Servant girls are that way , says Mrs. Huston Carmelite to her popular daughter . 
They are kissed first and proposed to afterward . 
has other sentimental last kisses in the moonlight , or the firelight , or the outer darkness . 
But he never realized how wide spread it was until he saw the cities between New York and Chicago as one vast juvenile intrigue . 
Afternoon at the Plaza , with winter twilight hovering outside and faint drums down stairs . 
they strut and fret in the lobby , taking another cocktail , scrupulously attired and waiting . 
Then the swinging doors revolve and three bundles of fur mince in . 
But the P. D. is in love again . 
Odd ! Didn't you notice how flushed the P. D. was when she arrived just seven minutes late ? But the P. D. gets away with it . 
The belle had become the flirt , the flirt had become the baby vamp . 
The belle had five or six callers every afternoon . 
If the P. D. , by some strange accident , has two , it is made pretty uncomfortable for the one who hasn't a date with her . 
The belle was surrounded by a dozen men in the intermissions between dances . 
Try to find the P. D. between dances , just try to find her . 
deep in an atmosphere of jungle music and the questioning of moral codes . 
Amory found it rather fascinating to feel that any popular girl he met before eight he might quite possibly kiss before twelve . 
Why on earth are we here ? he asked the girl with the green combs one night as they sat in some one's limousine , outside the Country Club in Louisville . 
I'm just full of the devil . 
Let's be frankwe'll never see each other again . 
I wanted to come out here with you because I thought you were the best looking girl in sight . 
Let's not talk about it . 
When the hand knit , sleeveless jerseys were stylish , Amory , in a burst of inspiration , named them petting shirts . 
The name travelled from coast to coast on the lips of parlor snakes and P. D. 's . 
DESCRIPTIVE Amory was now eighteen years old , just under six feet tall and exceptionally , but not conventionally , handsome . 
He had rather a young face , the ingenuousness of which was marred by the penetrating green eyes , fringed with long dark eyelashes . 
But people never forgot his face . 
ISABELLE She paused at the top of the staircase . 
The sensations attributed to divers on spring boards , leading ladies on opening nights , and lumpy , husky young men on the day of the Big Game , crowded through her . 
She should have descended to a burst of drums or a discordant blend of themes from Thais and Carmen . 
She had never been so curious about her appearance , she had never been so satisfied with it . 
She had been sixteen years old for six months . 
Isabelle ! called her cousin Sally from the doorway of the dressing room . 
She caught a slight lump of nervousness in her throat . 
I had to send back to the house for another pair of slippers . 
It'll be just a minute . 
Isabelle started toward the dressing room for a last peek in the mirror , but something decided her to stand there and gaze down the broad stairs of the Minnehaha Club . 
They curved tantalizingly , and she could catch just a glimpse of two pairs of masculine feet in the hall below . 
Pump shod in uniform black , they gave no hint of identity , but she wondered eagerly if one pair were attached to Amory Blaine . 
This young man , not as yet encountered , had nevertheless taken up a considerable part of her daythe first day of her arrival . 
Coming up in the machine from the station , Sally had volunteered , amid a rain of question , comment , revelation , and exaggeration You remember Amory Blaine , of course . 
Well , he's simply mad to see you again . 
He's stayed over a day from college , and he's coming to night . 
He's heard so much about yousays he remembers your eyes . 
It put them on equal terms , although she was quite capable of staging her own romances , with or without advance advertising . 
But following her happy tremble of anticipation , came a sinking sensation that made her ask How do you mean he's heard about me ? What sort of things ? Sally smiled . 
She felt rather in the capacity of a showman with her more exotic cousin . 
He knows you'reyou're considered beautiful and all that she paused and I guess he knows you've been kissed . 
At this Isabelle's little fist had clinched suddenly under the fur robe . 
She was a Speed , was she ? Welllet them find out . 
Out of the window Isabelle watched the snow glide by in the frosty morning . 
It was ever so much colder here than in Baltimore she had not remembered the glass of the side door was iced , the windows were shirred with snow in the corners . 
Her mind played still with one subject . 
Really she had no distinct idea of him . 
An ancient snap shot she had preserved in an old kodak book had impressed her by the big eyes . 
However , in the last month , when her winter visit to Sally had been decided on , he had assumed the proportions of a worthy adversary . 
Children , most astute of match makers , plot their campaigns quickly , and Sally had played a clever correspondence sonata to Isabelle's excitable temperament . 
Isabelle had been for some time capable of very strong , if very transient emotions . 
They drew up at a spreading , white stone building , set back from the snowy street . 
Mrs. Weatherby greeted her warmly and her various younger cousins were produced from the corners where they skulked politely . 
At her best she allied all with whom she came in contactexcept older girls and some women . 
All the impressions she made were conscious . 
The half dozen girls she renewed acquaintance with that morning were all rather impressed and as much by her direct personality as by her reputation . 
Amory Blaine was an open subject . 
He was going to fall for her . 
Sally had published that information to her young set and they were retailing it back to Sally as fast as they set eyes on Isabelle . 
Isabelle resolved secretly that she would , if necessary , force herself to like himshe owed it to Sally . 
Suppose she were terribly disappointed . 
Sally had painted him in such glowing colorshe was good looking , sort of distinguished , when he wants to be , had a line , and was properly inconstant . 
In fact , he summed up all the romance that her age and environment led her to desire . 
She wondered if those were his dancing shoes that fox trotted tentatively around the soft rug below . 
All impressions and , in fact , all ideas were extremely kaleidoscopic to Isabelle . 
She had that curious mixture of the social and the artistic temperaments found often in two classes , society women and actresses . 
Flirt smiled from her large black brown eyes and shone through her intense physical magnetism . 
So she waited at the head of the stairs that evening while slippers were fetched . 
The name Blaine figured somewhere , but at first she could not place him . 
A very confused , very juvenile moment of awkward backings and bumpings followed , and every one found himself talking to the person he least desired to . 
Isabelle manoeuvred herself and Froggy Parker , freshman at Harvard , with whom she had once played hop scotch , to a seat on the stairs . 
A humorous reference to the past was all she needed . 
The things Isabelle could do socially with one idea were remarkable . 
As an actress even in the fullest flush of her own conscious magnetism gets a deep impression of most of the people in the front row , so Isabelle sized up her antagonist . 
First , he had auburn hair , and from her feeling of disappointment she knew that she had expected him to be dark and of garter advertisement slenderness . 
During this inspection Amory was quietly watching . 
Don't you think so ? she said suddenly , turning to him , innocent eyed . 
There was a stir , and Sally led the way over to their table . 
Amory struggled to Isabelle's side , and whispered You're my dinner partner , you know . 
We're all coached for each other . 
Isabelle gaspedthis was rather right in line . 
But really she felt as if a good speech had been taken from the star and given to a minor character . 
She mustn't lose the leadership a bit . 
The dinner table glittered with laughter at the confusion of getting places and then curious eyes were turned on her , sitting near the head . 
Amory was on the other side , full of confidence and vanity , gazing at her in open admiration . 
He began directly , and so did Froggy I've heard a lot about you since you wore braids Wasn't it funny this afternoon Both stopped . 
Isabelle turned to Amory shyly . 
Her face was always enough answer for any one , but she decided to speak . 
Howfrom whom ? From everybodyfor all the years since you've been away . 
On her right Froggy was hors de combat already , although he hadn't quite realized it . 
I'll tell you what I remembered about you all these years , Amory continued . 
She leaned slightly toward him and looked modestly at the celery before her . 
Froggy sighedhe knew Amory , and the situations that Amory seemed born to handle . 
He turned to Sally and asked her if she was going away to school next year . 
Amory opened with grape shot . 
I've got an adjective that just fits you . 
Ohwhat ? Isabelle's face was a study in enraptured curiosity . 
I don't know you very well yet . 
Will you tell meafterward ? she half whispered . 
Did any one ever tell you , you have keen eyes ? she said . 
Amory attempted to make them look even keener . 
He fancied , but he was not sure , that her foot had just touched his under the table . 
But it might possibly have been only the table leg . 
It was so hard to tell . 
He wondered quickly if there would be any difficulty in securing the little den up stairs . 
BABES IN THE WOODS Isabelle and Amory were distinctly not innocent , nor were they particularly brazen . 
Moreover , amateur standing had very little value in the game they were playing , a game that would presumably be her principal study for years to come . 
Isabelle had walked with an artificial gait at nine and a half , and when her eyes , wide and starry , proclaimed the ingenue most . 
Amory was proportionately less deceived . 
He waited for the mask to drop off , but at the same time he did not question her right to wear it . 
She , on her part , was not impressed by his studied air of blasi sophistication . 
She had lived in a larger city and had slightly an advantage in range . 
But she accepted his poseit was one of the dozen little conventions of this kind of affair . 
So they proceeded with an infinite guile that would have horrified her parents . 
After the dinner the dance began . 
It was trueshe told every one so , and gave every hand a parting pressure that said You know that your dances are making my evening . 
She was conscious that they were a handsome pair , and seemed to belong distinctively in this seclusion , while lesser lights fluttered and chattered down stairs . 
Boys who passed the door looked in enviouslygirls who passed only laughed and frowned and grew wise within themselves . 
They had now reached a very definite stage . 
They had traded accounts of their progress since they had met last , and she had listened to much she had heard before . 
He was a sophomore , was on the Princetonian board , hoped to be chairman in senior year . 
A good half seemed to have already flunked out of various schools and colleges , but some of them bore athletic names that made him look at her admiringly . 
As a matter of fact , Isabelle's closer acquaintance with the universities was just commencing . 
She had bowing acquaintance with a lot of young men who thought she was a pretty kidworth keeping an eye on . 
But Isabelle strung the names into a fabrication of gayety that would have dazzled a Viennese nobleman . 
Such is the power of young contralto voices on sink down sofas . 
He asked her if she thought he was conceited . 
She said there was a difference between conceit and self confidence . 
She adored self confidence in men . 
Is Froggy a good friend of yours ? she asked . 
Ratherwhy ? He's a bum dancer . 
He dances as if the girl were on his back instead of in his arms . 
You're awfully good at sizing people up . 
However , he sized up several people for her . 
Then they talked about hands . 
You've got awfully nice hands , she said . 
They look as if you played the piano . 
Do you ? I have said they had reached a very definite stagenay , more , a very critical stage . 
Amory had stayed over a day to see her , and his train left at twelve eighteen that night . 
His trunk and suitcase awaited him at the station his watch was beginning to hang heavy in his pocket . 
Isabelle , he said suddenly , I want to tell you something . 
Then he began I don't know whether or not you know what youwhat I'm going to say . 
Lordy , Isabellethis sounds like a line , but it isn't . 
I know , said Isabelle softly . 
Maybe we'll never meet again like thisI have darned hard luck sometimes . 
He was leaning away from her on the other arm of the lounge , but she could see his eyes plainly in the dark . 
There was just the slightest emphasis on the last wordso that it became almost a term of endearment . 
Isabelle was quite stirred she wound her handkerchief into a tight ball , and by the faint light that streamed over her , dropped it deliberately on the floor . 
Their hands touched for an instant , but neither spoke . 
Silences were becoming more frequent and more delicious . 
Outside another stray couple had come up and were experimenting on the piano in the next room . 
Isabelle hummed it softly and trembled as she felt Amory's hand close over hers . 
You know I'm mad about you . 
You do give a darn about me . 
How much do you caredo you like any one better ? No. He could scarcely hear her , although he bent so near that he felt her breath against his cheek . 
Isabelle , I'm going back to college for six long months , and why shouldn't weif I could only just have one thing to remember you by Close the door . 
Her voice had just stirred so that he half wondered whether she had spoken at all . 
As he swung the door softly shut , the music seemed quivering just outside . 
Moonlight is bright , Kiss me good night . 
What a wonderful song , she thoughteverything was wonderful to night , most of all this romantic scene in the den , with their hands clinging and the inevitable looming charmingly close . 
He took her hand softly . 
With a sudden movement he turned it and , holding it to his lips , kissed the palm . 
Isabelle ! His whisper blended in the music , and they seemed to float nearer together . 
Can't I kiss you , IsabelleIsabelle ? Lips half parted , she turned her head to him in the dark . 
Suddenly the ring of voices , the sound of running footsteps surged toward them . 
But her heart was beating wildly , and she felt somehow as if she had been deprived . 
At quarter to twelve Amory shook hands with her gravely , in the midst of a small crowd assembled to wish him good speed . 
At two o'clock back at the Weatherbys' Sally asked her if she and Amory had had a time in the den . 
Isabelle turned to her quietly . 
In her eyes was the light of the idealist , the inviolate dreamer of Joan like dreams . 
I don't do that sort of thing any more he asked me to , but I said no . 
As she crept in bed she wondered what he'd say in his special delivery to morrow . 
He had such a good looking mouthwould she ever ? Fourteen angels were watching o'er them , sang Sally sleepily from the next room . 
Damn ! muttered Isabelle , punching the pillow into a luxurious lump and exploring the cold sheets cautiously . 
Damn ! CARNIVAL Amory , by way of the Princetonian , had arrived . 
Hi , Dibby'gratulations ! Goo' boy , Tom , you got a good bunch in Cap . 
Say , Kerry Oh , KerryI hear you went Tiger with all the weight lifters ! Well , I didn't go Cottagethe parlor snakes' delight . 
They say Overton fainted when he got his Ivy bid Did he sign up the first day ? oh , no . 
Tore over to Murray Dodge on a bicycleafraid it was a mistake . 
How'd you get into Capyou old roui ? 'Gratulations ! 'Gratulations yourself . 
Hear you got a good crowd . 
Long afterward Amory thought of sophomore spring as the happiest time of his life . 
His ideas were in tune with life as he found it he wanted no more than to drift and dream and enjoy a dozen new found friendships through the April afternoons . 
Alec Connage came into his room one morning and woke him up into the sunshine and peculiar glory of Campbell Hall shining in the window . 
Wake up , Original Sin , and scrape yourself together . 
Be in front of Renwick's in half an hour . 
He took the bureau cover and carefully deposited it , with its load of small articles , upon the bed . 
Where'd you get the car ? demanded Amory cynically . 
Sacred trust , but don't be a critical goopher or you can't go ! I think I'll sleep , Amory said calmly , resettling himself and reaching beside the bed for a cigarette . 
Sleep ! Why not ? I've got a class at eleven thirty . 
You damned gloom ! Of course , if you don't want to go to the coast With a bound Amory was out of bed , scattering the bureau cover's burden on the floor . 
he hadn't seen it for years , since he and his mother were on their pilgrimage . 
Who's going ? he demanded as he wriggled into his B. V. D. 's . 
Oh , Dick Humbird and Kerry Holiday and Jesse Ferrenby andoh about five or six . 
You see , said Kerry , the car belongs down there . 
In fact , it was stolen from Asbury Park by persons unknown , who deserted it in Princeton and left for the West . 
Heartless Humbird here got permission from the city council to deliver it . 
Anybody got any money ? suggested Ferrenby , turning around from the front seat . 
There was an emphatic negative chorus . 
Moneywhat's money ? We can sell the car . 
Charge him salvage or something . 
How're we going to get food ? asked Amory . 
Honestly , answered Kerry , eying him reprovingly , do you doubt Kerry's ability for three short days ? Some people have lived on nothing for years at a time . 
Read the Boy Scout Monthly . 
Three days , Amory mused , and I've got classes . 
One of the days is the Sabbath . 
Just the same , I can only cut six more classes , with over a month and a half to go . 
Throw him out ! It's a long walk back . 
Amory , you're running it out , if I may coin a new phrase . 
Hadn't you better get some dope on yourself , Amory ? Amory subsided resignedly and drooped into a contemplation of the scenery . 
Swinburne seemed to fit in somehow . 
The full streams feed on flower of What's the matter , Amory ? Amory's thinking about poetry , about the pretty birds and flowers . 
I can see it in his eye . 
No , I'm not , he lied . 
I'm thinking about the Princetonian . 
I ought to make up to night but I can telephone back , I suppose . 
Oh , said Kerry respectfully , these important men Amory flushed and it seemed to him that Ferrenby , a defeated competitor , winced a little . 
Of course , Kerry was only kidding , but he really mustn't mention the Princetonian . 
Then they hurried through the little town and it all flashed upon his consciousness to a mighty pfan of emotion . 
Oh , good Lord ! Look at it ! he cried . 
What ? Let me out , quickI haven't seen it for eight years ! Oh , gentlefolk , stop the car ! What an odd child ! remarked Alec . 
I do believe he's a bit eccentric . 
The car was obligingly drawn up at a curb , and Amory ran for the boardwalk . 
Now we'll get lunch , ordered Kerry , wandering up with the crowd . 
Come on , Amory , tear yourself away and get practical . 
We'll try the best hotel first , he went on , and thence and so forth . 
They strolled along the boardwalk to the most imposing hostelry in sight , and , entering the dining room , scattered about a table . 
Eight Bronxes , commanded Alec , and a club sandwich and Juliennes . 
Amory ate little , having seized a chair where he could watch the sea and feel the rock of it . 
When luncheon was over they sat and smoked quietly . 
What's the bill ? Some one scanned it . 
We'll give them two dollars and one for the waiter . 
Kerry , collect the small change . 
The waiter approached , and Kerry gravely handed him a dollar , tossed two dollars on the check , and turned away . 
They sauntered leisurely toward the door , pursued in a moment by the suspicious Ganymede . 
Kerry took the bill and examined it critically . 
You see , Amory , we're Marxian Socialists , explained Kerry . 
We don't believe in property and we're putting it to the great test . 
Night will descend , Amory suggested . 
Watch , and put your trust in Holiday . 
They became jovial about five thirty and , linking arms , strolled up and down the boardwalk in a row , chanting a monotonous ditty about the sad sea waves . 
Then Kerry saw a face in the crowd that attracted him and , rushing off , reappeared in a moment with one of the homeliest girls Amory had ever set eyes on . 
Name of Kaluka , Hawaiian queen ! Let me present Messrs . 
Connage , Sloane , Humbird , Ferrenby , and Blaine . 
The girl bobbed courtesies all around . 
Poor creature Amory supposed she had never before been noticed in her lifepossibly she was half witted . 
she said nothing which could discountenance such a belief . 
She prefers her native dishes , said Alec gravely to the waiter , but any coarse food will do . 
All through supper he addressed her in the most respectful language , while Kerry made idiotic love to her on the other side , and she giggled and grinned . 
They all seemed to have the spirit of it more or less , and it was a relaxation to be with them . 
Amory usually liked men individually , yet feared them in crowds unless the crowd was around him . 
He wondered how much each one contributed to the party , for there was somewhat of a spiritual tax levied . 
Alec and Kerry were the life of it , but not quite the centre . 
Somehow the quiet Humbird , and Sloane , with his impatient superciliousness , were the centre . 
Dick Humbird had , ever since freshman year , seemed to Amory a perfect type of aristocrat . 
He was slender but well builtblack curly hair , straight features , and rather a dark skin . 
Everything he said sounded intangibly appropriate . 
He possessed infinite courage , an averagely good mind , and a sense of honor with a clear charm and noblesse oblige that varied it from righteousness . 
He could dissipate without going to pieces , and even his most bohemian adventures never seemed running it out . 
People dressed like him , tried to talk as he did . 
Amory decided that he probably held the world back , but he wouldn't have changed him . 
He differed from the healthy type that was essentially middle classhe never seemed to perspire . 
He was not a snob , though he knew only half his class . 
His friends ranged from the highest to the lowest , but it was impossible to cultivate him . 
Servants worshipped him , and treated him like a god . 
He seemed the eternal example of what the upper class tries to be . 
He's like those pictures in the Illustrated London News of the English officers who have been killed , Amory had said to Alec . 
Amory had felt a curious sinking sensation . 
It was a let down from the conventional heights they had all walked so rigidly . 
After supper they saw Kaluka to the boardwalk , and then strolled back along the beach to Asbury . 
It was still a music , though , infinitely sorrowful . 
Ten o'clock found them penniless . 
They had suppered greatly on their last eleven cents and , singing , strolled up through the casinos and lighted arches on the boardwalk , stopping to listen approvingly to all band concerts . 
They finished the day in a moving picture show and went into solemn systematic roars of laughter at an ancient comedy , to the startled annoyance of the rest of the audience . 
Their entrance was distinctly strategic , for each man as he entered pointed reproachfully at the one just behind him . 
Sloane , bringing up the rear , disclaimed all knowledge and responsibility as soon as the others were scattered inside then as the irate ticket taker rushed in he followed nonchalantly . 
They reassembled later by the Casino and made arrangements for the night . 
They had their photos taken , eight poses , in a quick development store . 
The photographer probably has them yetat least , they never called for them . 
The weather was perfect , and again they slept outside , and again Amory fell unwillingly asleep . 
Even more than in the year before , Amory neglected his work , not deliberately but lazily and through a multitude of other interests . 
That was a noon class , and it always sent him dozing . 
They all cut more classes than were allowed , which meant an additional course the following year , but spring was too rare to let anything interfere with their colorful ramblings . 
Oddly enough , they both placed D'Invilliers as among the possibilities , a guess that a year before the class would have gaped at . 
All through the spring Amory had kept up an intermittent correspondence with Isabelle Borgi , punctuated by violent squabbles and chiefly enlivened by his attempts to find new words for love . 
During May he wrote thirty page documents almost nightly , and sent them to her in bulky envelopes exteriorly labelled Part I and Part II . 
Oh , Alec , I believe I'm tired of college , he said sadly , as they walked the dusk together . 
I think I am , too , in a way . 
All I'd like would be a little home in the country , some warm country , and a wife , and just enough to do to keep from rotting . 
What does your girl say ? Oh ! Amory gasped in horror . 
She wouldn't think of marrying . 
that is , not now . 
I mean the future , you know . 
Are you really ? Yes . 
Don't say a word to anybody , please , but I am . 
I may not come back next year . 
But you're only twenty ! Give up college ? Why , Amory , you were saying a minute ago Yes , Amory interrupted , but I was just wishing . 
I wouldn't think of leaving college . 
It's just that I feel so sad these wonderful nights . 
I sort of feel they're never coming again , and I'm not really getting all I could out of them . 
I wish my girl lived here . 
Especially as father says the money isn't forthcoming as it used to be . 
What a waste these nights are ! agreed Alec . 
But Amory sighed and made use of the nights . 
Oh , Isabelle , dearit's a wonderful night . 
Somebody is playing Love Moon on a mandolin far across the campus , and the music seems to bring you into the window . 
Now he's playing Good by , Boys , I'm Through , and how well it suits me . 
For I am through with everything . 
I meet them all the time and they don't interest me . 
I'm not pretending to be blasi , because it's not that . 
It's just that I'm in love . 
, you've got to come to the prom , and then I'll come up to your house for a day and everything'll be perfect . 
And so on in an eternal monotone that seemed to both of them infinitely charming , infinitely new . 
Then down deserted Prospect and along McCosh with song everywhere around them , up to the hot joviality of Nassau Street . 
Tom D'Invilliers and Amory walked late in those days . 
A gambling fever swept through the sophomore class and they bent over the bones till three o'clock many a sultry night . 
After one session they came out of Sloane's room to find the dew fallen and the stars old in the sky . 
Let's borrow bicycles and take a ride , Amory suggested . 
I'm not a bit tired and this is almost the last night of the year , really , because the prom stuff starts Monday . 
They found two unlocked bicycles in Holder Court and rode out about half past three along the Lawrenceville Road . 
What are you going to do this summer , Amory ? Don't ask mesame old things , I suppose . 
You're all rightyou're a rubber ball , and somehow it suits you , but I'm sick of adapting myself to the local snobbishness of this corner of the world . 
I want to go where people aren't barred because of the color of their neckties and the roll of their coats . 
You can't , Tom , argued Amory , as they rolled along through the scattering night wherever you go now you'll always unconsciously apply these standards of 'having it' or 'lacking it . 
Two years more of mere pedantry and lying around a club aren't going to help . 
They're just going to disorganize me , conventionalize me completely . 
Even now I'm so spineless that I wonder how I get away with it . 
Oh , but you're missing the real point , Tom , Amory interrupted . 
You've just had your eyes opened to the snobbishness of the world in a rather abrupt manner . 
Princeton invariably gives the thoughtful man a social sense . 
You consider you taught me that , don't you ? he asked quizzically , eying Amory in the half dark . 
Didn't I ? Sometimes , he said slowly , I think you're my bad angel . 
I might have been a pretty fair poet . 
Come on , that's rather hard . 
You chose to come to an Eastern college . 
Either your eyes were opened to the mean scrambling quality of people , or you'd have gone through blind , and you'd hate to have done thatbeen like Marty Kaye . 
Yes , he agreed , you're right . 
I wouldn't have liked it . 
Still , it's hard to be made a cynic at twenty . 
I was born one , Amory murmured . 
He paused and wondered if that meant anything . 
They reached the sleeping school of Lawrenceville , and turned to ride back . 
It's good , this ride , isn't it ? Tom said presently . 
Yes it's a good finish , it's knock out everything's good to night . 
Oh , for a hot , languorous summer and Isabelle ! Oh , you and your Isabelle ! I'll bet she's a simple one . 
So Amory declaimed The Ode to a Nightingale to the bushes they passed . 
I'll never be a poet , said Amory as he finished . 
I may turn out an intellectual , but I'll never write anything but mediocre poetry . 
Amory looked long at one house which bore the legend Sixty nine . 
There a few gray haired men sat and talked quietly while the classes swept by in panorama of life . 
UNDER THE ARC LIGHT Then tragedy's emerald eyes glared suddenly at Amory over the edge of June . 
On the night after his ride to Lawrenceville a crowd sallied to New York in quest of adventure , and started back to Princeton about twelve o'clock in two machines . 
It had been a gay party and different stages of sobriety were represented . 
Amory was in the car behind they had taken the wrong road and lost the way , and so were hurrying to catch up . 
It was a clear night and the exhilaration of the road went to Amory's head . 
He had the ghost of two stanzas of a poem forming in his mind . 
So the gray car crept nightward in the dark and there was no life stirred as it went by . 
A moment by an inn of lamps and shades , a yellow inn under a yellow moonthen silence , where crescendo laughter fades . 
the car swung out again to the winds of June , mellowed the shadows where the distance grew , then crushed the yellow shadows into blue . 
They jolted to a stop , and Amory peered up , startled . 
A woman was standing beside the road , talking to Alec at the wheel . 
Afterward he remembered the harpy effect that her old kimono gave her , and the cracked hollowness of her voice as she spoke You Princeton boys ? Yes . 
Well , there's one of you killed here , and two others about dead . 
My God ! Look ! She pointed and they gazed in horror . 
Under the full light of a roadside arc light lay a form , face downward in a widening circle of blood . 
They sprang from the car . 
Amory thought of the back of that headthat hairthat hair . 
and then they turned the form over . 
It's DickDick Humbird ! Oh , Christ ! Feel his heart ! Then the insistent voice of the old crone in a sort of croaking triumph He's quite dead , all right . 
Two of the men that weren't hurt just carried the others in , but this one's no use . 
Amory rushed into the house and the rest followed with a limp mass that they laid on the sofa in the shoddy little front parlor . 
Sloane , with his shoulder punctured , was on another lounge . 
He was half delirious , and kept calling something about a chemistry lecture at . 
I don't know what happened , said Ferrenby in a strained voice . 
Dick was driving and he wouldn't give up the wheel we told him he'd been drinking too muchthen there was this damn curveoh , my God ! . 
He threw himself face downward on the floor and broke into dry sobs . 
The doctor had arrived , and Amory went over to the couch , where some one handed him a sheet to put over the body . 
With a sudden hardness , he raised one of the hands and let it fall back inertly . 
The brow was cold but the face not expressionless . 
He looked at the shoe lacesDick had tied them that morning . 
He had tied themand now he was this heavy white mass . 
All that remained of the charm and personality of the Dick Humbird he had knownoh , it was all so horrible and unaristocratic and close to the earth . 
All tragedy has that strain of the grotesque and squalidso useless , futile . 
Amory was reminded of a cat that had lain horribly mangled in some alley of his childhood . 
Some one go to Princeton with Ferrenby . 
Amory stepped outside the door and shivered slightly at the late night winda wind that stirred a broken fender on the mass of bent metal to a plaintive , tinny sound . 
CRESCENDO ! Next day , by a merciful chance , passed in a whirl . 
Isabelle and her mother drove into town at four , and they rode up smiling Prospect Avenue , through the gay crowd , to have tea at Cottage . 
She was all he had expected , and he was happy and eager to make that night the centre of every dream . 
The next day was another whirl . 
The stag line is a most homogeneous mass of men . 
It fairly sways with a single soul . 
A dark haired beauty dances by and there is a half gasping sound as the ripple surges forward and some one sleeker than the rest darts out and cuts in . 
I say , old man , I've got an awfully nice Sorry , Kaye , but I'm set for this one . 
I've got to cut in on a fella . 
Well , the next one ? WhataherI swear I've got to go cut inlook me up when she's got a dance free . 
It delighted Amory when Isabelle suggested that they leave for a while and drive around in her car . 
For a delicious hour that passed too soon they glided the silent roads about Princeton and talked from the surface of their hearts in shy excitement . 
Amory felt strangely ingenuous and made no attempt to kiss her . 
He was tempted to lean over and kiss away her tears , and she slipped her hand into his under cover of darkness to be pressed softly . 
Then at six they arrived at the Borgis' summer place on Long Island , and Amory rushed up stairs to change into a dinner coat . 
As he put in his studs he realized that he was enjoying life as he would probably never enjoy it again . 
Everything was hallowed by the haze of his own youth . 
He had arrived , abreast of the best in his generation at Princeton . 
He was in love and his love was returned . 
There was little in his life now that he would have changed . 
Oxford might have been a bigger field . 
How conveniently well he looked , and how well a dinner coat became him . 
He stepped into the hall and then waited at the top of the stairs , for he heard footsteps coming . 
It was Isabelle , and from the top of her shining hair to her little golden slippers she had never seemed so beautiful . 
Isabelle ! he cried , half involuntarily , and held out his arms . 
BOOK ONE The Romantic Egotist CHAPTER The Egotist Considers OUCH ! Let me go ! He dropped his arms to his sides . 
What's the matter ? Your shirt studit hurt melook ! She was looking down at her neck , where a little blue spot about the size of a pea marred its pallor . 
Oh , Isabelle , he reproached himself , I'm a goopher . 
Really , I'm sorryI shouldn't have held you so close . 
Oh , Amory , of course you couldn't help it , and it didn't hurt much but what are we going to do about it ? Do about it ? he asked . 
Ohthat spot it'll disappear in a second . 
Massage it , he suggested , repressing the faintest inclination to laugh . 
She rubbed it delicately with the tips of her fingers , and then a tear gathered in the corner of her eye , and slid down her cheek . 
Oh , Amory , she said despairingly , lifting up a most pathetic face , I'll just make my whole neck flame if I rub it . 
What'll I do ? A quotation sailed into his head and he couldn't resist repeating it aloud . 
All the perfumes of Arabia will not whiten this little hand . 
She looked up and the sparkle of the tear in her eye was like ice . 
Isabelle , darling , I think it'll Don't touch me ! she cried . 
Haven't I enough on my mind and you stand there and laugh ! Then he slipped again . 
Oh , shut up ! she cried suddenly , and fled down the hallway toward her room . 
Amory stood there , covered with remorseful confusion . 
Damn ! When Isabelle reappeared she had thrown a light wrap about her shoulders , and they descended the stairs in a silence that endured through dinner . 
Let's kiss and make up . 
I hate to be laughed at , she said finally . 
I won't laugh any more . 
I'm not laughing now , am I ? You did . 
Oh , don't be so darned feminine . 
I'll be anything I want . 
Amory kept his temper with difficulty . 
He became aware that he had not an ounce of real affection for Isabelle , but her coldness piqued him . 
He wanted to kiss her , kiss her a lot , because then he knew he could leave in the morning and not care . 
On the contrary , if he didn't kiss her , it would worry him . 
It would interfere vaguely with his idea of himself as a conqueror . 
It wasn't dignified to come off second best , pleading , with a doughty warrior like Isabelle . 
Afterward they suppered on ginger ale and devil's food in the pantry , and Amory announced a decision . 
I'm leaving early in the morning . 
Why ? Why not ? he countered . 
Well , if you insist on being ridiculous Oh , don't put it that way , he objected . 
just because I won't let you kiss me . 
Do you think Now , Isabelle , he interrupted , you know it's not thateven suppose it is . 
We've reached the stage where we either ought to kissorornothing . 
It isn't as if you were refusing on moral grounds . 
I really don't know what to think about you , she began , in a feeble , perverse attempt at conciliation . 
He had told her a lot of things . 
Well , you didn't seem to feel so self confident to night . 
Maybe you're just plain conceited . 
No , I'm not , he hesitated . 
I do , because you're always talking about yourself and I used to like it now I don't . 
Have I to night ? That's just the point , insisted Isabelle . 
You got all upset to night . 
You just sat and watched my eyes . 
Besides , I have to think all the time I'm talking to youyou're so critical . 
I make you think , do I ? Amory repeated with a touch of vanity . 
You're a nervous strain this emphatically and when you analyze every little emotion and instinct I just don't have 'em . 
Amory admitted her point and shook his head helplessly . 
He rose abstractedly and they walked to the foot of the stairs . 
What train can I get ? There's one about if you really must go . 
Yes , I've got to go , really . 
They were at the head of the stairs , and as Amory turned into his room he thought he caught just the faintest cloud of discontent in her face . 
He lay awake in the darkness and wondered how much he caredhow much of his sudden unhappiness was hurt vanitywhether he was , after all , temperamentally unfitted for romance . 
When he awoke , it was with a glad flood of consciousness . 
Then the grandfather's clock in the hall outside struck eight , and the memory of the night before came to him . 
He was out of bed , dressing , like the wind he must get out of the house before he saw Isabelle . 
What had seemed a melancholy happening , now seemed a tiresome anticlimax . 
He was dressed at half past , so he sat down by the window felt that the sinews of his heart were twisted somewhat more than he had thought . 
There was a knock at the door . 
The car will be around at ten minutes of nine , sir . 
But his life would not be unfulfilled . 
Mr. Rooney , pander to the dull , conducted the class and smoked innumerable Pall Malls as he drew diagrams and worked equations from six in the morning until midnight . 
Now , Langueduc , if I used that formula , where would my A point be ? Langueduc lazily shifts his six foot three of football material and tries to concentrate . 
OhahI'm damned if I know , Mr. Rooney . 
Oh , why of course , of course you can't use that formula . 
That's what I wanted you to say . 
Why , sure , of course . 
Do you see why ? You betI suppose so . 
If you don't see , tell me . 
I'm here to show you . 
Well , Mr. Rooney , if you don't mind , I wish you'd go over that again . 
I should think it would be such a bore , there's so much else to do in New York during the term . 
I suppose they don't know what they miss , anyhow . 
There was such an air of you and I about Mr. McDowell that Amory very nearly pushed him out of the open window when he said this . 
Next February his mother would wonder why he didn't make a club and increase his allowance . 
He found it impossible to study conic sections something in their calm and tantalizing respectability breathing defiantly through Mr. Rooney's fetid parlors distorted their equations into insoluble anagrams . 
There was always his luck . 
He yawned , scribbled his honor pledge on the cover , and sauntered from the room . 
Your stock will go down like an elevator at the club and on the campus . 
Oh , hell , I know it . 
Why rub it in ? 'Cause you deserve it . 
Anybody that'd risk what you were in line for ought to be ineligible for Princetonian chairman . 
Oh , drop the subject , Amory protested . 
Watch and wait and shut up . 
I don't want every one at the club asking me about it , as if I were a prize potato being fattened for a vegetable show . 
Yes , your result's here . 
What is it , blue or pink ? Don't know . 
He walked into the room and straight over to the table , and then suddenly noticed that there were other people in the room . 
Ah , men of Princeton . 
They seemed to be mostly friends , so he picked up the envelope marked Registrar's Office , and weighed it nervously . 
We have here quite a slip of paper . 
Just to be dramatic , I'll let you know that if it's blue , my name is withdrawn from the editorial board of the Prince , and my short career is over . 
He paused , and then saw for the first time Ferrenby's eyes , wearing a hungry look and watching him eagerly . 
Amory returned the gaze pointedly . 
Watch my face , gentlemen , for the primitive emotions . 
He tore it open and held the slip up to the light . 
Well ? Pink or blue ? Say what it is . 
We're all ears , Amory . 
a small crowd of seconds swept by . 
then he looked again and another crowd went on into time . 
Blue as the sky , gentlemen . 
AFTERMATH What Amory did that year from early September to late in the spring was so purposeless and inconsecutive that it seems scarcely worth recording . 
He was , of course , immediately sorry for what he had lost . 
His philosophy of success had tumbled down upon him , and he looked for the reasons . 
Your own laziness , said Alec later . 
I've begun to feel that I was meant to lose this chance . 
They're rather off you at the club , you know every man that doesn't come through makes our crowd just so much weaker . 
I hate that point of view . 
Of course , with a little effort you could still stage a comeback . 
NoI'm throughas far as ever being a power in college is concerned . 
Not me , said Amory slowly I'm mad at the concrete thing . 
My own idleness was quite in accord with my system , but the luck broke . 
Your system broke , you mean . 
Well , what are you going to do ? Get a better one quick , or just bum around for two more years as a has been ? I don't know yet . 
Oh , Amory , buck up ! Maybe . 
Amory's point of view , though dangerous , was not far from the true one . 
If his reactions to his environment could be tabulated , the chart would have appeared like this , beginning with his earliest years . 
Amory plus Beatrice plus Minneapolis . 
Regis' had pulled him to pieces and started him over again . 
That had been his nearest approach to success through conformity . 
The fundamental Amory , idle , imaginative , rebellious , had been nearly snowed under . 
FINANCIAL His father died quietly and inconspicuously at Thanksgiving . 
The incongruity of death with either the beauties of Lake Geneva or with his mother's dignified , reticent attitude diverted him , and he looked at the funeral with an amused tolerance . 
He decided that burial was after all preferable to cremation , and he smiled at his old boyhood choice , slow oxidation in the top of a tree . 
, or with his hands clasped behind his head , a more pagan and Byronic attitude . 
For the first time he came into actual cognizance of the family finances , and realized what a tidy fortune had once been under his father's management . 
He took a ledger labelled and ran through it rather carefully . 
The total expenditure that year had come to something over one hundred and ten thousand dollars . 
The rest was fully taken care of , and there were invariably items which failed to balance on the right side of the ledger . 
In the volume for Amory was shocked to discover the decrease in the number of bond holdings and the great drop in the income . 
In the case of Beatrice's money this was not so pronounced , but it was obvious that his father had devoted the previous year to several unfortunate gambles in oil . 
Very little of the oil had been burned , but Stephen Blaine had been rather badly singed . 
The next year and the next and the next showed similar decreases , and Beatrice had for the first time begun using her own money for keeping up the house . 
Yet her doctor's bill for had been over nine thousand dollars . 
About the exact state of things Mr. Barton was quite vague and confused . 
It was not for several months that Beatrice wrote Amory the full situation . 
The entire residue of the Blaine and O'Hara fortunes consisted of the place at Lake Geneva and approximately a half million dollars , invested now in fairly conservative six per cent holdings . 
In fact , Beatrice wrote that she was putting the money into railroad and street car bonds as fast as she could conveniently transfer it . 
I am quite sure , she wrote to Amory , that if there is one thing we can be positive of , it is that people will not stay in one place . 
This Ford person has certainly made the most of that idea . 
So I am instructing Mr. Barton to specialize on such things as Northern Pacific and these Rapid Transit Companies , as they call the street cars . 
I shall never forgive myself for not buying Bethlehem Steel . 
I've heard the most fascinating stories . 
You must go into finance , Amory . 
I'm sure you would revel in it . 
You start as a messenger or a teller , I believe , and from that you go upalmost indefinitely . 
I'm sure if I were a man I'd love the handling of money it has become quite a senile passion with me . 
Before I get any farther I want to discuss something . 
Now , Amory , I don't know whether that is a fad at Princeton too , but I don't want you to be so foolish . 
It not only inclines a young man to pneumonia and infantile paralysis , but to all forms of lung trouble , to which you are particularly inclined . 
You cannot experiment with your health . 
I have found that out . 
The very next Christmas you would not wear even rubbers , though I begged you . 
You are nearly twenty years old now , dear , and I can't be with you constantly to find whether you are doing the sensible thing . 
This has been a very practical letter . 
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE TERM PERSONAGE Monsignor Darcy invited Amory up to the Stuart palace on the Hudson for a week at Christmas , and they had enormous conversations around the open fire . 
I've felt like leaving college , Monsignor . 
Why ? All my career's gone up in smoke you think it's petty and all that , but Not at all petty . 
I think it's most important . 
I want to hear the whole thing . 
Everything you've been doing since I saw you last . 
Amory talked he went thoroughly into the destruction of his egotistic highways , and in a half hour the listless quality had left his voice . 
What would you do if you left college ? asked Monsignor . 
I'd like to travel , but of course this tiresome war prevents that . 
Anyways , mother would hate not having me graduate . 
Kerry Holiday wants me to go over with him and join the Lafayette Esquadrille . 
You know you wouldn't like to go . 
Sometimes I wouldto night I'd go in a second . 
Well , you'd have to be very much more tired of life than I think you are . 
I'm afraid you do , agreed Amory reluctantly . 
It just seemed an easy way out of everythingwhen I think of another useless , draggy year . 
Yes , I know but to tell you the truth , I'm not worried about you you seem to me to be progressing perfectly naturally . 
I've lost half my personality in a year . 
Not a bit of it ! scoffed Monsignor . 
You've lost a great amount of vanity and that's all . 
Lordy ! I feel , anyway , as if I'd gone through another fifth form at St . 
No. Monsignor shook his head . 
That was a misfortune this has been a good thing . 
Whatever worth while comes to you , won't be through the channels you were searching last year . 
What could be more unprofitable than my present lack of pep ? Perhaps in itself . 
This has given you time to think and you're casting off a lot of your old luggage about success and the superman and all . 
People like us can't adopt whole theories , as you did . 
But , Monsignor , I can't do the next thing . 
Amory , between you and me , I have only just learned to do it myself . 
I can do the one hundred things beyond the next thing , but I stub my toe on that , just as you stubbed your toe on mathematics this fall . 
Why do we have to do the next thing ? It never seems the sort of thing I should do . 
We have to do it because we're not personalities , but personages . 
That's a good linewhat do you mean ? A personality is what you thought you were , what this Kerry and Sloane you tell me of evidently are . 
Personality is a physical matter almost entirely it lowers the people it acts onI've seen it vanish in a long sickness . 
But while a personality is active , it overrides 'the next thing . 
Now a personage , on the other hand , gathers . 
He is never thought of apart from what he's done . 
He's a bar on which a thousand things have been hungglittering things sometimes , as ours are but he uses those things with a cold mentality back of them . 
And several of my most glittering possessions had fallen off when I needed them . 
Amory continued the simile eagerly . 
Yes , that's it when you feel that your garnered prestige and talents and all that are hung out , you need never bother about anybody you can cope with them without difficulty . 
But , on the other hand , if I haven't my possessions , I'm helpless ! Absolutely . 
Now you've a clean starta start Kerry or Sloane can constitutionally never have . 
You brushed three or four ornaments down , and , in a fit of pique , knocked off the rest of them . 
The thing now is to collect some new ones , and the farther you look ahead in the collecting the better . 
The priest seemed to guess Amory's thoughts before they were clear in his own head , so closely related were their minds in form and groove . 
Why do I make lists ? Amory asked him one night . 
Lists of all sorts of things ? Because you're a medifvalist , Monsignor answered . 
It's the passion for classifying and finding a type . 
It's a desire to get something definite . 
It's the nucleus of scholastic philosophy . 
I was beginning to think I was growing eccentric till I came up here . 
It was a pose , I guess . 
Don't worry about that for you not posing may be the biggest pose of all . 
Pose Yes ? But do the next thing . 
After Amory returned to college he received several letters from Monsignor which gave him more egotistic food for consumption . 
Some nuances of character you will have to take for granted in yourself , though you must be careful in confessing them to others . 
You are unsentimental , almost incapable of affection , astute without being cunning and vain without being proud . 
An idealization of some such a man as Leonardo da Vinci would be a more valuable beacon to you at present . 
With affectionate regards , THAYER DARCY . 
One week , through general curiosity , he inspected the private libraries of his classmates and found Sloane's as typical as any sets of Kipling , O. Henry , John Fox , Jr . 
Together with Tom D'Invilliers , he sought among the lights of Princeton for some one who might found the Great American Poetic Tradition . 
The undergraduate body itself was rather more interesting that year than had been the entirely Philistine Princeton of two years before . 
Things had livened surprisingly , though at the sacrifice of much of the spontaneous charm of freshman year . 
In the old Princeton they would never have discovered Tanaduke Wylie . 
At least so Tom and Amory took him . 
They told him in all earnestness that he had a mind like Shelley's , and featured his ultrafree free verse and prose poetry in the Nassau Literary Magazine . 
But Tanaduke's genius absorbed the many colors of the age , and he took to the Bohemian life , to their great disappointment . 
So they surrendered Tanaduke to the futurists , deciding that he and his flaming ties would do better there . 
Amory rather scornfully avoided the popular professors who dispensed easy epigrams and thimblefuls of Chartreuse to groups of admirers every night . 
Three times a week You hold us helpless while you speak , Teasing our thirsty souls with the Sleek 'yeas' of your philosophy . 
Well , here we are , your hundred sheep , Tune up , play on , pour forth . 
But here's a neighbor on my right , An Eager Ass , considered bright Asker of questions . 
How he'll stand , With earnest air and fidgy hand , After this hour , telling you He sat all night and burrowed through Your book . 
Oh , you'll be coy and he Will simulate precosity , And pedants both , you'll smile and smirk , And leer , and hasten back to work . 
that I defied The highest rules of criticism For cheap and careless witticism . 
'Are you quite sure that this could be ? And 'Shaw is no authority ! But Eager Ass , with what he's sent , Plays havoc with your best per cent . 
Stillstill I meet you here and there . 
When Shakespeare's played you hold a chair , And some defunct , moth eaten star Enchants the mental prig you are . 
A radical comes down and shocks The atheistic orthodox ? You're representing Common Sense , Mouth open , in the audience . 
And so from shock to shock you live , A hollow , pale affirmative . 
and roused from rest One hundred children of the blest Cheat you a word or two with feet That down the noisy aisle ways beat . 
Forget on narrow minded earth The Mighty Yawn that gave you birth . 
In April , Kerry Holiday left college and sailed for France to enroll in the Lafayette Esquadrille . 
THE DEVIL Healy's they left at twelve and taxied to Bistolary's . 
There were Axia Marlowe and Phoebe Column , from the Summer Garden show , Fred Sloane and Amory . 
The evening was so very young that they felt ridiculous with surplus energy , and burst into the cafi like Dionysian revellers . 
Table for four in the middle of the floor , yelled Phoebe . 
Hurry , old dear , tell 'em we're here ! Tell 'em to play 'Admiration' ! shouted Sloane . 
You two order Phoebe and I are going to shake a wicked calf , and they sailed off in the muddled crowd . 
Axia and Amory , acquaintances of an hour , jostled behind a waiter to a table at a point of vantage there they took seats and watched . 
There's Findle Margotson , from New Haven ! she cried above the uproar . 
'Lo , Findle ! Whoo ee ! Oh , Axia ! he shouted in salutation . 
C'mon over to our table . 
There's a natural damn fool , commented Amory . 
Oh , he's all right . 
Here's the old jitney waiter . 
If you ask me , I want a double Daiquiri . 
The crowd whirled and changed and shifted . 
They were mostly from the colleges , with a scattering of the male refuse of Broadway , and women of two types , the higher of which was the chorus girl . 
On the whole it was a typical crowd , and their party as typical as any . 
Their party was scheduled to be one of the harmless kind . 
Fred Sloane and Phoebe Column were old friends Axia and Amory new ones . 
About one o'clock they moved to Maxim's , and two found them in Devinihre's . 
They were just through dancing and were making their way back to their chairs when Amory became aware that some one at a near by table was looking at him . 
He turned and glanced casually . 
a middle aged man dressed in a brown sack suit , it was , sitting a little apart at a table by himself and watching their party intently . 
At Amory's glance he smiled faintly . 
Amory turned to Fred , who was just sitting down . 
Who's that pale fool watching us ? he complained indignantly . 
We'll have him thrown out ! He rose to his feet and swayed back and forth , clinging to his chair . 
Where is he ? Axia and Phoebe suddenly leaned and whispered to each other across the table , and before Amory realized it they found themselves on their way to the door . 
Where now ? Up to the flat , suggested Phoebe . 
We've got brandy and fizzand everything's slow down here to night . 
He hadn't been drinking , and decided that if he took no more , it would be reasonably discreet for him to trot along in the party . 
In fact , it would be , perhaps , the thing to do in order to keep an eye on Sloane , who was not in a state to do his own thinking . 
So he took Axia's arm and , piling intimately into a taxicab , they drove out over the hundreds and drew up at a tall , white stone apartment house . 
Never would he forget that street . 
He imagined each one to have an elevator and a colored hall boy and a key rack each one to be eight stories high and full of three and four room suites . 
He was rather glad to walk into the cheeriness of Phoebe's living room and sink onto a sofa , while the girls went rummaging for food . 
Phoebe's great stuff , confided Sloane , sotto voce . 
I'm only going to stay half an hour , Amory said sternly . 
He wondered if it sounded priggish . 
Hell y' say , protested Sloane . 
We're here nowdon't le's rush . 
I don't like this place , Amory said sulkily , and I don't want any food . 
Phoebe reappeared with sandwiches , brandy bottle , siphon , and four glasses . 
Amory , pour 'em out , she said , and we'll drink to Fred Sloane , who has a rare , distinguished edge . 
Yes , said Axia , coming in , and Amory . 
She sat down beside him and laid her yellow head on his shoulder . 
I'll pour , said Sloane you use siphon , Phoebe . 
They filled the tray with glasses . 
Ready , here she goes ! Amory hesitated , glass in hand . 
There was a minute while temptation crept over him like a warm wind , and his imagination turned to fire , and he took the glass from Phoebe's hand . 
There the man half sat , half leaned against a pile of pillows on the corner divan . 
Amory looked him over carefully and later he could have drawn him after a fashion , down to the merest details . 
Amory noticed his hands they weren't fine at all , but they had versatility and a tenuous strength . 
they were nervous hands that sat lightly along the cushions and moved constantly with little jerky openings and closings . 
Then , suddenly , Amory perceived the feet , and with a rush of blood to the head he realized he was afraid . 
The feet were all wrong . 
with a sort of wrongness that he felt rather than knew . 
It was like weakness in a good woman , or blood on satin one of those terrible incongruities that shake little things in the back of the brain . 
They were a darkish brown and his toes seemed to fill them to the end . 
He must have said something , or looked something , for Axia's voice came out of the void with a strange goodness . 
Well , look at Amory ! Poor old Amory's sickold head going 'round ? Look at that man ! cried Amory , pointing toward the corner divan . 
You mean that purple zebra ! shrieked Axia facetiously . 
Ooo ee ! Amory's got a purple zebra watching him ! Sloane laughed vacantly . 
Ole zebra gotcha , Amory ? There was a silence . 
The man regarded Amory quizzically . 
Come back ! Come back ! Axia's arm fell on his . 
Amory , dear , you aren't going , Amory ! He was half way to the door . 
Come on , Amory , stick 'th us ! Sick , are you ? Sit down a second ! Take some water . 
The elevator was close , and the colored boy was half asleep , paled to a livid bronze . 
Axia's beseeching voice floated down the shaft . 
As they settled to the lower floor the feet came into view in the sickly electric light of the paved hall . 
IN THE ALLEY Down the long street came the moon , and Amory turned his back on it and walked . 
Ten , fifteen steps away sounded the footsteps . 
They were like a slow dripping , with just the slightest insistence in their fall . 
Amory's shadow lay , perhaps , ten feet ahead of him , and soft shoes was presumably that far behind . 
After that he stopped suddenly he must keep hold , he thought . 
His lips were dry and he licked them . 
then the scuffling grew suddenly nearer , and a black cloud settled over the moon . 
When again the pale sheen skimmed the cornices , it was almost beside him , and Amory thought he heard a quiet breathing . 
Suddenly he realized that the footsteps were not behind , had never been behind , they were ahead and he was not eluding but following . 
He began to run , blindly , his heart knocking heavily , his hands clinched . 
Far ahead a black dot showed itself , resolved slowly into a human shape . 
But Amory was beyond that now he turned off the street and darted into an alley , narrow and dark and smelling of old rottenness . 
He twisted down a long , sinuous blackness , where the moonlight was shut away except for tiny glints and patches . 
then suddenly sank panting into a corner by a fence , exhausted . 
The steps ahead stopped , and he could hear them shift slightly with a continuous motion , like waves around a dock . 
He put his face in his hands and covered eyes and ears as well as he could . 
During all this time it never occurred to him that he was delirious or drunk . 
He had a sense of reality such as material things could never give him . 
His intellectual content seemed to submit passively to it , and it fitted like a glove everything that had ever preceded it in his life . 
It did not muddle him . 
It was like a problem whose answer he knew on paper , yet whose solution he was unable to grasp . 
He was far beyond horror . 
Only far inside his soul a little fire leaped and cried that something was pulling him down , trying to get him inside a door and slam it behind him . 
After that door was slammed there would be only footfalls and white buildings in the moonlight , and perhaps he would be one of the footfalls . 
During the five or ten minutes he waited in the shadow of the fence , there was somehow this fire . 
that was as near as he could name it afterward . 
He remembered calling aloud I want some one stupid . 
Oh , send some one stupid ! This to the black fence opposite him , in whose shadows the footsteps shuffled . 
He supposed stupid and good had become somehow intermingled through previous association . 
Minutes later he sprang to his feet , realizing dimly that there was no more sound , and that he was alone in the graying alley . 
It was cold , and he started on a steady run for the light that showed the street at the other end . 
Sloane was snoring heavily , his clothes in a pile by his bed . 
They dressed and ate breakfast in silence , and then sauntered out to get some air . 
Amory's mind was working slowly , trying to assimilate what had happened and separate from the chaotic imagery that stacked his memory the bare shreds of truth . 
Then Broadway broke upon them , and with the babel of noise and the painted faces a sudden sickness rushed over Amory . 
For God's sake , let's go back ! Let's get off of thisthis place ! Sloane looked at him in amazement . 
What's the matter with you ? Old remorse getting you ? You'd be in a fine state if you'd gone through with our little party . 
I'm going , Fred , said Amory slowly . 
His knees were shaking under him , and he knew that if he stayed another minute on this street he would keel over where he stood . 
I'll be at the Vanderbilt for lunch . 
And he strode rapidly off and turned over to Fifth Avenue . 
In the doorway of his room a sudden blackness flowed around him like a divided river . 
When he came to himself he knew that several hours had passed . 
He pitched onto the bed and rolled over on his face with a deadly fear that he was going mad . 
He wanted people , people , some one sane and stupid and good . 
He lay for he knew not how long without moving . 
He could feel the little hot veins on his forehead standing out , and his terror had hardened on him like plaster . 
He felt he was passing up again through the thin crust of horror , and now only could he distinguish the shadowy twilight he was leaving . 
He must have fallen asleep again , for when he next recollected himself he had paid the hotel bill and was stepping into a taxi at the door . 
On the train for Princeton he saw no one he knew , only a crowd of fagged looking Philadelphians . 
He found himself reading the same paragraphs over and over , so he abandoned this attempt and leaning over wearily pressed his hot forehead against the damp window pane . 
Tom was standing in the centre of the room , pensively relighting a cigar stub . 
Amory fancied he looked rather relieved on seeing him . 
Had a hell of a dream about you last night , came in the cracked voice through the cigar smoke . 
I had an idea you were in some trouble . 
Don't tell me about it ! Amory almost shrieked . 
Don't say a word I'm tired and pepped out . 
Tom looked at him queerly and then sank into a chair and opened his Italian note book . 
Amory threw his coat and hat on the floor , loosened his collar , and took a Wells novel at random from the shelf . 
Wells is sane , he thought , and if he won't do I'll read Rupert Brooke . 
Outside the wind came up , and Amory started as the wet branches moved and clawed with their finger nails at the window pane . 
Tom was deep in his work , and inside the room only the occasional scratch of a match or the rustle of leather as they shifted in their chairs broke the stillness . 
Then like a zigzag of lightning came the change . 
Amory sat bolt upright , frozen cold in his chair . 
Tom was looking at him with his mouth drooping , eyes fixed . 
God help us ! Amory cried . 
Oh , my heavens ! shouted Tom , look behind ! Quick as a flash Amory whirled around . 
He saw nothing but the dark window pane . 
It's gone now , came Tom's voice after a second in a still terror . 
Something was looking at you . 
Trembling violently , Amory dropped into his chair again . 
I've got to tell you , he said . 
I've had one hell of an experience . 
I think I'veI've seen the devil orsomething like him . 
What face did you just see ? or no , he added quickly , don't tell me ! And he gave Tom the story . 
First , and partly by accident , they struck on certain books , a definite type of biographical novel that Amory christened quest books . 
It was distinctly through the channels of aristocracy that Burne found his way . 
Amory , through Kerry , had had a vague drifting acquaintance with him , but not until January of senior year did their friendship commence . 
Heard the latest ? said Tom , coming in late one drizzly evening with that triumphant air he always wore after a successful conversational bout . 
No. Somebody flunked out ? Or another ship sunk ? Worse than that . 
About one third of the junior class are going to resign from their clubs . 
What ! Actual fact ! Why ! Spirit of reform and all that . 
Burne Holiday is behind it . 
The club presidents are holding a meeting to night to see if they can find a joint means of combating it . 
Woodrow thought they should be abolished and all that . 
But this is the real thing ? Absolutely . 
I think it'll go through . 
For Pete's sake , tell me more about it . 
Well , began Tom , it seems that the idea developed simultaneously in several heads . 
I was talking to Burne awhile ago , and he claims that it's a logical result if an intelligent person thinks long enough about the social system . 
Fine ! I swear I think it'll be most entertaining . 
How do they feel up at Cap and Gown ? Wild , of course . 
Every one's been sitting and arguing and swearing and getting mad and getting sentimental and getting brutal . 
It's the same at all the clubs I've been the rounds . 
They get one of the radicals in the corner and fire questions at him . 
How do the radicals stand up ? Oh , moderately well . 
Burne's a damn good talker , and so obviously sincere that you can't get anywhere with him . 
In fact , I believe Burne thought for a while that he'd converted me . 
And you say almost a third of the junior class are going to resign ? Call it a fourth and be safe . 
Lordwho'd have thought it possible ! There was a brisk knock at the door , and Burne himself came in . 
Hello , Amoryhello , Tom . 
Don't mind if I seem to rush I'm going to Renwick's . 
Burne turned to him quickly . 
You probably know what I want to talk to Tom about , and it isn't a bit private . 
Amory sat down again , and as Burne perched on a table and launched into argument with Tom , he looked at this revolutionary more carefully than he ever had before . 
The intense power Amory felt later in Burne Holiday differed from the admiration he had had for Humbird . 
This time it began as purely a mental interest . 
Burne stood vaguely for a land Amory hoped he was drifting towardand it was almost time that land was in sight . 
That night they discussed the clubs until twelve , and , in the main , they agreed with Burne . 
Then Amory branched off and found that Burne was deep in other things as well . 
Economics had interested him and he was turning socialist . 
Pacifism played in the back of his mind , and he read the Masses and Lyoff Tolstoi faithfully . 
How about religion ? Amory asked him . 
I'm in a muddle about a lot of thingsI've just discovered that I've a mind , and I'm starting to read . 
I have to pick and choose , of course , but mostly things to make me think . 
I'm reading the four gospels now , and the 'Varieties of Religious Experience . 
What chiefly started you ? Wells , I guess , and Tolstoi , and a man named Edward Carpenter . 
I've been reading for over a year nowon a few lines , on what I consider the essential lines . 
Poetry ? Well , frankly , not what you call poetry , or for your reasonsyou two write , of course , and look at things differently . 
Whitman is the man that attracts me . 
Whitman ? Yes he's a definite ethical force . 
Well , I'm ashamed to say that I'm a blank on the subject of Whitman . 
How about you , Tom ? Tom nodded sheepishly . 
Well , continued Burne , you may strike a few poems that are tiresome , but I mean the mass of his work . 
They both look things in the face , and , somehow , different as they are , stand for somewhat the same things . 
You have me stumped , Burne , Amory admitted . 
I've read 'Anna Karinina' and the 'Kreutzer Sonata' of course , but Tolstoi is mostly in the original Russian as far as I'm concerned . 
He's the greatest man in hundreds of years , cried Burne enthusiastically . 
Burne Holiday was so evidently developingand Amory had considered that he was doing the same . 
and like a sombre background lay that incident of the spring before , that filled half his nights with a dreary terror and made him unable to pray . 
He could not sleep , so he turned on his reading lamp and , taking down the Kreutzer Sonata , searched it carefully for the germs of Burne's enthusiasm . 
Being Burne was suddenly so much realler than being clever . 
here were other possible clay feet . 
He thought back through two years , of Burne as a hurried , nervous freshman , quite submerged in his brother's personality . 
Then he remembered an incident of sophomore year , in which Burne had been suspected of the leading rtle . 
Dean Hollister had been heard by a large group arguing with a taxi driver , who had driven him from the junction . 
In the course of the altercation the dean remarked that he might as well buy the taxicab . 
It took two expert mechanics half a day to dissemble it into its minutest parts and remove it , which only goes to prove the rare energy of sophomore humor under efficient leadership . 
Then again , that very fall , Burne had caused a sensation . 
A certain Phyllis Styles , an intercollegiate prom trotter , had failed to get her yearly invitation to the Harvard Princeton game . 
Jesse Ferrenby had brought her to a smaller game a few weeks before , and had pressed Burne into serviceto the ruination of the latter's misogyny . 
Are you coming to the Harvard game ? Burne had asked indiscreetly , merely to make conversation . 
If you ask me , cried Phyllis quickly . 
Of course I do , said Burne feebly . 
He was unversed in the arts of Phyllis , and was sure that this was merely a vapid form of kidding . 
Before an hour had passed he knew that he was indeed involved . 
Phyllis had pinned him down and served him up , informed him the train she was arriving by , and depressed him thoroughly . 
Aside from loathing Phyllis , he had particularly wanted to stag that game and entertain some Harvard friends . 
She'll see , he informed a delegation who arrived in his room to josh him . 
There were Burne and Fred Sloane arrayed to the last dot like the lurid figures on college posters . 
They had bought flaring suits with huge peg top trousers and gigantic padded shoulders . 
On their heads were rakish college hats , pinned up in front and sporting bright orange and black bands , while from their celluloid collars blossomed flaming orange ties . 
They wore black arm bands with orange P's , and carried canes flying Princeton pennants , the effect completed by socks and peeping handkerchiefs in the same color motifs . 
On a clanking chain they led a large , angry tom cat , painted to represent a tiger . 
Phyllis's feelings as she was paraded by the Harvard and Princeton stands , where sat dozens of her former devotees , can be imagined . 
That had been Burne , dynamically humorous , fundamentally serious . 
From that root had blossomed the energy that he was now trying to orient with progress . 
So the weeks passed and March came and the clay feet that Amory looked for failed to appear . 
About a hundred juniors and seniors resigned from their clubs in a final fury of righteousness , and the clubs in helplessness turned upon Burne their finest weapon ridicule . 
came under the lash of many tongues , until a frailer man than he would have been snowed under . 
Don't you mind losing prestige ? asked Amory one night . 
They had taken to exchanging calls several times a week . 
What's prestige , at best ? Some people say that you're just a rather original politician . 
That's what Fred Sloane told me to day . 
I suppose I have it coming . 
One afternoon they dipped into a subject that had interested Amory for a long timethe matter of the bearing of physical attributes on a man's make up . 
Burne had gone into the biology of this , and then Of course health countsa healthy man has twice the chance of being good , he said . 
I don't agree with youI don't believe in 'muscular Christianity . 
I doI believe Christ had great physical vigor . 
Oh , no , Amory protested . 
He worked too hard for that . 
I imagine that when he died he was a broken down manand the great saints haven't been strong . 
Well , let's waive itwe won't get anywhere , and besides I haven't quite made up my mind about it myself . 
Now , here's something I do knowpersonal appearance has a lot to do with it . 
Coloring ? Amory asked eagerly . 
That's what Tom and I figured , Amory agreed . 
We took the year books for the last ten years and looked at the pictures of the senior council . 
I know you don't think much of that august body , but it does represent success here in a general way . 
Well , I suppose only about thirty five per cent of every class here are blonds , are really lightyet two thirds of every senior council are light . 
It's true , Burne agreed . 
The light haired man is a higher type , generally speaking . 
People unconsciously admit it , said Amory . 
You'll notice a blond person is expected to talk . 
If a blond girl doesn't talk we call her a 'doll' if a light haired man is silent he's considered stupid . 
Yet the world is full of 'dark silent men' and 'languorous brunettes' who haven't a brain in their heads , but somehow are never accused of the dearth . 
And the large mouth and broad chin and rather big nose undoubtedly make the superior face . 
Amory was all for classical features . 
Oh , yesI'll show you , and Burne pulled out of his desk a photographic collection of heavily bearded , shaggy celebritiesTolstoi , Whitman , Carpenter , and others . 
Aren't they wonderful ? Amory tried politely to appreciate them , and gave up laughingly . 
Burne , I think they're the ugliest looking crowd I ever came across . 
They look like an old man's home . 
Oh , Amory , look at that forehead on Emerson look at Tolstoi's eyes . 
No ! Call them remarkable looking or anything you wantbut ugly they certainly are . 
Unabashed , Burne ran his hand lovingly across the spacious foreheads , and piling up the pictures put them back in his desk . 
Walking at night was one of his favorite pursuits , and one night he persuaded Amory to accompany him . 
I hate the dark , Amory objected . 
I didn't use toexcept when I was particularly imaginative , but now , I really doI'm a regular fool about it . 
That's useless , you know . 
We'll go east , Burne suggested , and down that string of roads through the woods . 
Doesn't sound very appealing to me , admitted Amory reluctantly , but let's go . 
They set off at a good gait , and for an hour swung along in a brisk argument until the lights of Princeton were luminous white blots behind them . 
Any person with any imagination is bound to be afraid , said Burne earnestly . 
And this very walking at night is one of the things I was afraid about . 
I'm going to tell you why I can walk anywhere now and not be afraid . 
Go on , Amory urged eagerly . 
They were striding toward the woods , Burne's nervous , enthusiastic voice warming to his subject . 
I used to come out here alone at night , oh , three months ago , and I always stopped at that cross road we just passed . 
There were the woods looming up ahead , just as they do now , there were dogs howling and the shadows and no human sound . 
Of course , I peopled the woods with everything ghastly , just like you do don't you ? I do , Amory admitted . 
That made it all rightas it always makes everything all right to project yourself completely into another's place . 
I knew that if I were the dog or the convict or the ghost I wouldn't be a menace to Burne Holiday any more than he was a menace to me . 
Then I thought of my watch . 
I'd better go back and leave it and then essay the woods . 
I couldn't have done that . 
I'd have come out half way , and the first time an automobile passed and made the dark thicker when its lamps disappeared , I'd have come in . 
Well , Burne said suddenly , after a few moments' silence , we're half way through , let's turn back . 
On the return he launched into a discussion of will . 
It's the whole thing , he asserted . 
It's the one dividing line between good and evil . 
I've never met a man who led a rotten life and didn't have a weak will . 
How about great criminals ? They're usually insane . 
If not , they're weak . 
There is no such thing as a strong , sane criminal . 
Burne , I disagree with you altogether how about the superman ? Well ? He's evil , I think , yet he's strong and sane . 
I'll bet , though , that he's stupid or insane . 
I've met him over and over and he's neither . 
That's why I think you're wrong . 
I'm sure I'm notand so I don't believe in imprisonment except for the insane . 
On this point Amory could not agree . 
Burne was drawing farther and farther away from the world about him . 
He resigned the vice presidency of the senior class and took to reading and walking as almost his only pursuits . 
Sometimes Amory would see him squirm in his seat and his face would light up he was on fire to debate a point . 
Burne seemed to be climbing heights where others would be forever unable to get a foothold . 
I tell you , Amory declared to Tom , he's the first contemporary I've ever met whom I'll admit is my superior in mental capacity . 
It's a bad time to admit itpeople are beginning to think he's odd . 
He's way over their headsyou know you think so yourself when you talk to himGood Lord , Tom , you used to stand out against 'people . 
Success has completely conventionalized you . 
What's he trying to dobe excessively holy ? No ! not like anybody you've ever seen . 
Never enters the Philadelphian Society . 
He has no faith in that rot . 
He doesn't believe that public swimming pools and a kind word in time will right the wrongs of the world moreover , he takes a drink whenever he feels like it . 
He certainly is getting in wrong . 
Have you talked to him lately ? No. Then you haven't any conception of him . 
The argument ended nowhere , but Amory noticed more than ever how the sentiment toward Burne had changed on the campus . 
The next morning he met Burne hurrying along McCosh walk after a recitation . 
Whither bound , Tsar ? Over to the Prince office to see Ferrenby , he waved a copy of the morning's Princetonian at Amory . 
Going to flay him alive ? Nobut he's got me all balled up . 
Either I've misjudged him or he's suddenly become the world's worst radical . 
Burne hurried on , and it was several days before Amory heard an account of the ensuing conversation . 
Burne had come into the editor's sanctum displaying the paper cheerfully . 
I just read your editorial . 
Good boydidn't know you stooped that low . 
Jesse , you startled me . 
How so ? Aren't you afraid the faculty'll get after you if you pull this irreligious stuff ? What ? Like this morning . 
What the devilthat editorial was on the coaching system . 
Yes , but that quotation Jesse sat up . 
What quotation ? You know 'He who is not with me is against me . 
Wellwhat about it ? Jesse was puzzled but not alarmed . 
Well , you say herelet me see . 
Burne opened the paper and read 'He who is not with me is against me , as that gentleman said who was notoriously capable of only coarse distinctions and puerile generalities . 
What of it ? Ferrenby began to look alarmed . 
Oliver Cromwell said it , didn't he ? or was it Washington , or one of the saints ? Good Lord , I've forgotten . 
Oh , Jesse , oh , good , kind Jesse . 
Who said it , for Pete's sake ? Well , said Burne , recovering his voice , St . 
Matthew attributes it to Christ . 
My God ! cried Jesse , and collapsed backward into the waste basket . 
AMORY WRITES A POEM The weeks tore by . 
Amory wandered occasionally to New York on the chance of finding a new shining green auto bus , that its stick of candy glamour might penetrate his disposition . 
One day he ventured into a stock company revival of a play whose name was faintly familiar . 
The curtain rosehe watched casually as a girl entered . 
A few phrases rang in his ear and touched a faint chord of memory . 
The solution came in a flash and he had a quick , glad memory of Isabelle . 
Yawning and wondering an evening through , I watch alone . 
STILL CALM Ghosts are such dumb things , said Alec , they're slow witted . 
I can always outguess a ghost . 
Well , it depends where . 
Take a bedroom , for example . 
If you use any discretion a ghost can never get you in a bedroom . 
Go on , s'pose you think there's maybe a ghost in your bedroomwhat measures do you take on getting home at night ? demanded Amory , interested . 
Take a stick answered Alec , with ponderous reverence , one about the length of a broom handle . 
Then , if nothing happens , you can look in . 
Always , always run the stick in viciously firstnever look first ! Of course , that's the ancient Celtic school , said Tom gravely . 
Yesbut they usually pray first . 
Anyway , you use this method to clear the closets and also for behind all doors And the bed , Amory suggested . 
Oh , Amory , no ! cried Alec in horror . 
Alec waved him into silence . 
Of course you never look . 
If you still have doubts pull the blanket over your head . 
All that's very interesting , Tom . 
Isn't it ? Alec beamed proudly . 
All my own , toothe Sir Oliver Lodge of the new world . 
Amory was enjoying college immensely again . 
The sense of going forward in a direct , determined line had come back youth was stirring and shaking out a few new feathers . 
He had even stored enough surplus energy to sally into a new pose . 
What ? What ? mimicked Alec . 
Are you trying to read yourself into a rhapsody withlet's see the book . 
He snatched it regarded it derisively . 
Well ? said Amory a little stiffly . 
Teresa , read Alec aloud . 
Oh , my gosh ! Say , Alec . 
What ? Does it bother you ? Does what bother me ? My acting dazed and all that ? Why , noof course it doesn't bother me . 
Well , then , don't spoil it . 
If I enjoy going around telling people guilelessly that I think I'm a genius , let me do it . 
You're getting a reputation for being eccentric , said Alec , laughing , if that's what you mean . 
Monsignor took him several times to see Thornton Hancock , and once or twice to the house of a Mrs. Lawrence , a type of Rome haunting American whom Amory liked immediately . 
To my mind , she's rather a remarkable woman , and just about your age . 
Amory sighed and decided to go , as a favor . 
Amory wasn't good enough for Clara , Clara of ripply golden hair , but then no man was . 
Her goodness was above the prosy morals of the husband seeker , apart from the dull literature of female virtue . 
She was alone in the world , with two small children , little money , and , worst of all , a host of friends . 
What a twist Clara had to her mind ! She could make fascinating and almost brilliant conversation out of the thinnest air that ever floated through a drawing room . 
The idea that the girl was poverty stricken had appealed to Amory's sense of situation . 
He arrived in Philadelphia expecting to be told that Ark Street was in a miserable lane of hovels . 
He was even disappointed when it proved to be nothing of the sort . 
It was an old house that had been in her husband's family for years . 
So no wild haired woman with a hungry baby at her breast and a sad Amelia like look greeted him . 
Instead , Amory would have thought from his reception that she had not a care in the world . 
A calm virility and a dreamy humor , marked contrasts to her level headednessinto these moods she slipped sometimes as a refuge . 
, yet immediately afterward pick up a book and let her imagination rove as a formless cloud with the wind . 
Deepest of all in her personality was the golden radiance that she diffused around her . 
At first this quality of hers somehow irritated Amory . 
He considered his own uniqueness sufficient , and it rather embarrassed him when she tried to read new interests into him for the benefit of what other adorers were present . 
He felt as if a polite but insistent stage manager were attempting to make him give a new interpretation of a part he had conned for years . 
But Clara talking , Clara telling a slender tale of a hatpin and an inebriated man and herself . 
People tried afterward to repeat her anecdotes but for the life of them they could make them sound like nothing whatever . 
They gave her a sort of innocent attention and the best smiles many of them had smiled for long there were few tears in Clara , but people smiled misty eyed at her . 
You are remarkable , aren't you ! Amory was becoming trite from where he perched in the centre of the dining room table one six o'clock . 
Not a bit , she answered . 
She was searching out napkins in the sideboard . 
I'm really most humdrum and commonplace . 
One of those people who have no interest in anything but their children . 
Tell that to somebody else , scoffed Amory . 
You know you're perfectly effulgent . 
He asked her the one thing that he knew might embarrass her . 
It was the remark that the first bore made to Adam . 
And she gave the answer that Adam must have given . 
at any rate , Clara told Amory much about herself that evening . 
She had had a harried life from sixteen on , and her education had stopped sharply with her leisure . 
Browsing in her library , Amory found a tattered gray book out of which fell a yellow sheet that he impudently opened . 
How he would have loved to have come along and seen her on the wall and talked nonsense or romance to her , perched above him in the air . 
Nobody seems to bore you , he objected . 
She was the only person he ever met who could look up passages and quotations to show him in the middle of the conversation , and yet not be irritating to distraction . 
She did it constantly , with such a serious enthusiasm that he grew fond of watching her golden hair bent over a book , brow wrinkled ever so little at hunting her sentence . 
Through early March he took to going to Philadelphia for week ends . 
But he fell gradually in love and began to speculate wildly on marriage . 
Though this design flowed through his brain even to his lips , still he knew afterward that the desire had not been deeply rooted . 
But she was the first fine woman he ever knew and one of the few good people who ever interested him . 
She made her goodness such an asset . 
Laughing lightning , color of rose . 
Do you like me ? Of course I do , said Clara seriously . 
Why ? Well , we have some qualities in common . 
Things that are spontaneous in each of usor were originally . 
You're implying that I haven't used myself very well ? Clara hesitated . 
Well , I can't judge . 
A man , of course , has to go through a lot more , and I've been sheltered . 
Oh , don't stall , please , Clara , Amory interrupted but do talk about me a little , won't you ? Surely , I'd adore to . 
Am I painfully conceited ? Wellno , you have tremendous vanity , but it'll amuse the people who notice its preponderance . 
You're really humble at heart . 
You sink to the third hell of depression when you think you've been slighted . 
In fact , you haven't much self respect . 
Centre of target twice , Clara . 
How do you do it ? You never let me say a word . 
Of course notI can never judge a man while he's talking . 
For instance , you're always saying that you are a slave to high balls . 
But I am , potentially . 
And you say you're a weak character , that you've no will . 
You're a slave , a bound helpless slave to one thing in the world , your imagination . 
If this isn't boring you , go on . 
I notice that when you want to stay over an extra day from college you go about it in a sure way . 
You never decide at first while the merits of going or staying are fairly clear in your mind . 
You let your imagination shinny on the side of your desires for a few hours , and then you decide . 
Naturally your imagination , after a little freedom , thinks up a million reasons why you should stay , so your decision when it comes isn't true . 
Yes , objected Amory , but isn't it lack of will power to let my imagination shinny on the wrong side ? My dear boy , there's your big mistake . 
Well , I'll be darned ! exclaimed Amory in surprise , that's the last thing I expected . 
She changed the subject immediately . 
But she had started him thinking and he believed she was partly right . 
He felt like a factory owner who after accusing a clerk of dishonesty finds that his own son , in the office , is changing the books once a week . 
Clara's was the only advice he ever asked without dictating the answer himselfexcept , perhaps , in his talks with Monsignor Darcy . 
How he loved to do any sort of thing with Clara ! Shopping with her was a rare , epicurean dream . 
In every store where she had ever traded she was whispered about as the beautiful Mrs. Page . 
I'll bet she won't stay single long . 
Well , don't scream it out . 
She ain't lookin' for no advice . 
Society person , ain't she ? Yeah , but poor now , I guess so they say . 
Gee ! girls , ain't she some kid ! And Clara beamed on all alike . 
Amory believed that tradespeople gave her discounts , sometimes to her knowledge and sometimes without it . 
He knew she dressed very well , had always the best of everything in the house , and was inevitably waited upon by the head floor walker at the very least . 
Sometimes they would go to church together on Sunday and he would walk beside her and revel in her cheeks moist from the soft water in the new air . 
Cecelia , he cried aloud one day , quite involuntarily , and the people turned and peered , and the priest paused in his sermon and Clara and Amory turned to fiery red . 
That was the last Sunday they had , for he spoiled it all that night . 
They were walking through the March twilight where it was as warm as June , and the joy of youth filled his soul so that he felt he must speak . 
I think , he said and his voice trembled , that if I lost faith in you I'd lose faith in God . 
She looked at him with such a startled face that he asked her the matter . 
Nothing , she said slowly , only this five men have said that to me before , and it frightens me . 
Oh , Clara , is that your fate ! She did not answer . 
I suppose love to you is he began . 
She turned like a flash . 
I have never been in love . 
They walked along , and he realized slowly how much she had told him . 
She seemed suddenly a daughter of light alone . 
His entity dropped out of her plane and he longed only to touch her dress with almost the realization that Joseph must have had of Mary's eternal significance . 
But quite mechanically he heard himself saying And I love youany latent greatness that I've got is . 
oh , I can't talk , but Clara , if I come back in two years in a position to marry you She shook her head . 
No , she said I'd never marry again . 
I've got my two children and I want myself for them . 
I like youI like all clever men , you more than anybut you know me well enough to know that I'd never marry a clever man She broke off suddenly . 
What ? You're not in love with me . 
You never wanted to marry me , did you ? It was the twilight , he said wonderingly . 
I didn't feel as though I were speaking aloud . 
But I love youor adore youor worship you There you gorunning through your catalogue of emotions in five seconds . 
Don't make me out such a light weight , Clara you are depressing sometimes . 
You're not a light weight , of all things , she said intently , taking his arm and opening wide her eyeshe could see their kindliness in the fading dusk . 
A light weight is an eternal nay . 
There's so much spring in the airthere's so much lazy sweetness in your heart . 
You're all fine now , and I feel glorious . 
You've never seen me smoke , have you ? Well , I do , about once a month . 
And then that wonderful girl and Amory raced to the corner like two mad children gone wild with pale blue twilight . 
I'm going to the country for to morrow , she announced , as she stood panting , safe beyond the flare of the corner lamp post . 
These days are too magnificent to miss , though perhaps I feel them more in the city . 
I'm never really wild and never have been . 
That little outburst was pure spring . 
And you are , too , said he . 
They were walking along now . 
Noyou're wrong again , how can a person of your own self reputed brains be so constantly wrong about me ? I'm the opposite of everything spring ever stood for . 
She was the only girl he ever knew with whom he could understand how another man might be preferred . 
Golden , golden is the air he chanted to the little pools of water . 
Golden is the air , golden notes from golden mandolins , golden frets of golden violins , fair , oh , wearily fair . 
Skeins from braided basket , mortals may not hold oh , what young extravagant God , who would know or ask it ? . 
who could give such gold . 
Every night the gymnasium echoed as platoon after platoon swept over the floor and shuffled out the basket ball markings . 
He thought how much easier patriotism had been to a homogeneous race , how much easier it would have been to fight as the Colonies fought , or as the Confederacy fought . 
And he did no sleeping that night , but listened to the aliens guffaw and snore while they filled the car with the heavy scent of latest America . 
In Princeton every one bantered in public and told themselves privately that their deaths at least would be heroic . 
Then , after a week , Amory saw Burne and knew at once that argument would be futileBurne had come out as a pacifist . 
But I'm not going to talk propaganda with you . 
There's a chance that you're rightbut even so we're hundreds of years before the time when non resistance can touch us as a reality . 
But , Amory , listen Burne , we'd just argue Very well . 
How do you know they aren't all pro Germanjust a lot of weak oneswith German Jewish names . 
That's the chance , of course , he said slowly . 
But think of the cheapness of itno one's really going to martyr you for being a pacifistit's just going to throw you in with the worst I doubt it , he interrupted . 
Well , it all smells of Bohemian New York to me . 
I know what you mean , and that's why I'm not sure I'll agitate . 
You're one man , Burne going to talk to people who won't listen with all God's given you . 
That's what Stephen must have thought many years ago . 
But he preached his sermon and they killed him . 
He probably thought as he was dying what a waste it all was . 
That's allthis is my particular duty . 
Even if right now I'm just a pawnjust sacrificed . 
And this spectre stands right beside the one logical necessity of Tolstoi's , and the other logical necessity of Nietzsche's Amory broke off suddenly . 
When are you going ? I'm going next week . 
I'll see you , of course . 
Amory wondered unhappily why he could never go into anything with the primal honesty of those two . 
He sold all his possessions and came down to the room to say good by , with a battered old bicycle , on which he intended to ride to his home in Pennsylvania . 
Peter the Hermit bidding farewell to Cardinal Richelieu , suggested Alec , who was lounging in the window seat as Burne and Amory shook hands . 
What on earth is the use of suddenly running down Goethe , he declared to Alec and Tom . 
Why write books to prove he started the waror that that stupid , overestimated Schiller is a demon in disguise ? Have you ever read anything of theirs ? asked Tom shrewdly . 
Neither have I , he said laughing . 
Somehow Amory's dissatisfaction with his lack of enthusiasm culminated in an attempt to put the blame for the whole war on the ancestors of his generation . 
all the people who cheered for Germany in . 
All the materialists rampant , all the idolizers of German science and efficiency . 
Victorians , Victorians , who never learned to weep Who sowed the bitter harvest that your children go to reap scribbled Amory in his note book . 
The lecturer was saying something about Tennyson's solidity and fifty heads were bent to take notes . 
Amory turned over to a fresh page and began scrawling again . 
They shuddered when they found what Mr. Darwin was about , They shuddered when the waltz came in and Newman hurried out But the waltz came in much earlier he crossed that out . 
And entitled A Song in the Time of Order , came the professor's voice , droning far away . 
Time of Order Good Lord ! Everything crammed in the box and the Victorians sitting on the lid smiling serenely . 
With Browning in his Italian villa crying bravely All's for the best . 
You knelt up in the temple and he bent to hear you pray , You thanked him for your 'glorious gains'reproached him for 'Cathay . 
You met your children in your home'I've fixed it up ! you cried , Took your fifty years of Europe , and then virtuouslydied . 
That was to a great extent Tennyson's idea , came the lecturer's voice . 
Swinburne's Song in the Time of Order might well have been Tennyson's title . 
He idealized order against chaos , against waste . 
At last Amory had it . 
He turned over another page and scrawled vigorously for the twenty minutes that was left of the hour . 
Then he walked up to the desk and deposited a page torn out of his note book . 
Here's a poem to the Victorians , sir , he said coldly . 
The professor picked it up curiously while Amory backed rapidly through the door . 
THE END OF MANY THINGS Early April slipped by in a hazea haze of long evenings on the club veranda with the graphophone playing Poor Butterfly inside . 
for Poor Butterfly had been the song of that last year . 
This is the great protest against the superman , said Amory . 
I suppose so , Alec agreed . 
He's absolutely irreconcilable with any Utopia . 
As long as he occurs , there's trouble and all the latent evil that makes a crowd list and sway when he talks . 
And of course all that he is is a gifted man without a moral sense . 
How do we know our grandchildren won't idolize Von Hindenburg the same way ? What brings it about ? Time , damn it , and the historian . 
If we could only learn to look on evil as evil , whether it's clothed in filth or monotony or magnificence . 
God ! Haven't we raked the universe over the coals for four years ? Then the night came that was to be the last . 
Tom and Amory , bound in the morning for different training camps , paced the shadowy walks as usual and seemed still to see around them the faces of the men they knew . 
The grass is full of ghosts to night . 
The whole campus is alive with them . 
They paused by Little and watched the moon rise , to make silver of the slate roof of Dodd and blue the rustling trees . 
You know , whispered Tom , what we feel now is the sense of all the gorgeous youth that has rioted through here in two hundred years . 
A last burst of singing flooded up from Blair Archbroken voices for some long parting . 
And what we leave here is more than this class it's the whole heritage of youth . 
We're just one generationwe're breaking all the links that seemed to bind us here to top booted and high stocked generations . 
We've walked arm and arm with Burr and Light Horse Harry Lee through half these deep blue nights . 
That's what they are , Tom tangented off , deep bluea bit of color would spoil them , make them exotic . 
Spires , against a sky that's a promise of dawn , and blue light on the slate roofsit hurts . 
rather Good by , Aaron Burr , Amory called toward deserted Nassau Hall , you and I knew strange corners of life . 
His voice echoed in the stillness . 
The torches are out , whispered Tom . 
No more to wait the twilight of the moon in this sequestered vale of star and spire , for one eternal morning of desire passes to time and earthy afternoon . 
But men will chatter and you and I will still shout our futilities to each other across the stage until the last silly curtain falls plump ! upon our bobbing heads . 
There are times when I think of the men out there as Roman legionaries , miles from their corrupt city , stemming back the hordes . 
hordes a little more menacing , after all , than the corrupt city . 
another blind blow at the race , furies that we passed with ovations years ago , over whose corpses we bleated triumphantly all through the Victorian era . 
And afterward an out and out materialistic worldand the Catholic Church . 
I wonder where you'll fit in . 
Of one thing I'm sureCeltic you'll live and Celtic you'll die so if you don't use heaven as a continual referendum for your ideas you'll find earth a continual recall to your ambitions . 
Amory , I've discovered suddenly that I'm an old man . 
Like all old men , I've had dreams sometimes and I'm going to tell you of them . 
it's the paternal instinct , Amorycelibacy goes deeper than the flesh . 
Stephen was his name , I think . 
Even before you get this letter I shall be on the ocean then will come your turn . 
You went to war as a gentleman should , just as you went to school and college , because it was the thing to do . 
It's better to leave the blustering and tremulo heroism to the middle classes they do it so much better . 
We are many other thingswe're extraordinary , we're clever , we could be said , I suppose , to be brilliant . 
There are deep things in us and you know what they are as well as I do . 
I have written a keen for you which follows . 
Aveelia Vrone His hair is like the golden collar of the Kings at Tara And his eyes like the four gray seas of Erin . 
And they swept with the mists of rain . 
A Vich Deelish My heart is in the heart of my son And my life is in his life surely A man can be twice young In the life of his sons only . 
AmoryAmoryI feel , somehow , that this is all one or both of us is not going to last out this war . 
I've been trying to tell you how much this reincarnation of myself in you has meant in the last few years . 
Good by , dear boy , and God be with you . 
EMBARKING AT NIGHT Amory moved forward on the deck until he found a stool under an electric light . 
He searched in his pocket for note book and pencil and then began to write , slowly , laboriously We leave to night . 
And so we linger on the windless decks , See on the spectre shore Shades of a thousand days , poor gray ribbed wrecks . 
A letter from Amory , headed Brest , March th , , to Lieutenant T. P. D'Invilliers , Camp Gordon , Ga . 
DEAR BAUDELAIRE We meet in Manhattan on the th of this very mo . 
we then proceed to take a very sporty apartment , you and I and Alec , who is at me elbow as I write . 
I don't know what I'm going to do but I have a vague dream of going into politics . 
Even forty years ago we had good men in politics , but we , we are brought up to pile up a million and show what we are made of . 
Sometimes I wish I'd been an Englishman American life is so damned dumb and stupid and healthy . 
Since poor Beatrice died I'll probably have a little money , but very darn little . 
Mr. Barton , my lawyer , writes me that my thousands are mostly in street railways and that the said Street R. R. s are losing money because of the five cent fares . 
As for the well known Amory , he would write immortal literature if he were sure enough about anything to risk telling any one else about it . 
There is no more dangerous gift to posterity than a few cleverly turned platitudes . 
Kerry's death was a blow , so was Jesse's to a certain extent . 
And I have a great curiosity to know what queer corner of the world has swallowed Burne . 
The Catholic Church has had its wings clipped so often lately that its part was timidly negligible , and they haven't any good writers any more . 
I honestly think that's all pretty much rot , though it seemed to give sentimental comfort to those at home and may make fathers and mothers appreciate their children . 
This crisis inspired religion is rather valueless and fleeting at best . 
I think four men have discovered Paris to one that discovered God . 
I'm restless as the devil and have a horror of getting fat or falling in love and growing domestic . 
The place at Lake Geneva is now for rent but when I land I'm going West to see Mr. Barton and get some details . 
Write me care of the Blackstone , Chicago . 
S'ever , dear Boswell , SAMUEL JOHNSON . 
BOOK TWO The Education of a Personage CHAPTER The Dibutante The time is February . 
The place is a large , dainty bedroom in the Connage house on Sixty eighth Street , New York . 
A girl's room pink walls and curtains and a pink bedspread on a cream colored bed . 
Pink and cream are the motifs of the room , but the only article of furniture in full view is a luxurious dressing table with a glass top and a three sided mirror . 
On the walls there is an expensive print of Cherry Ripe , a few polite dogs by Landseer , and the King of the Black Isles , by Maxfield Parrish . 
upon the two small chairs , a collection of lingerie that beggars description . 
She brings to light several beautiful chemises and an amazing pajama but this does not satisfy hershe goes out . 
An indistinguishable mumble from the next room . 
Now , we are getting warm . 
This is Alec's mother , Mrs. Connage , ample , dignified , rouged to the dowager point and quite worn out . 
Her lips move significantly as she looks for IT . 
Her search is less thorough than the maid's but there is a touch of fury in it , that quite makes up for its sketchiness . 
She stumbles on the tulle and her damn is quite audible . 
She retires , empty handed . 
This is Cecelia Connage , sixteen , pretty , shrewd , and constitutionally good humored . 
She is dressed for the evening in a gown the obvious simplicity of which probably bores her . 
She goes to the nearest pile , selects a small pink garment and holds it up appraisingly . 
ALEC So that's where you all are ! Amory Blaine is here . 
CECELIA Take him down stairs . 
ALEC Oh , he is down stairs . 
CONNAGE Well , you can show him where his room is . 
Tell him I'm sorry that I can't meet him now . 
ALEC He's heard a lot about you all . 
Father's telling him all about the war and he's restless . 
How do you meantemperamental ? You used to say that about him in letters . 
ALEC Oh , he writes stuff . 
CECELIA Does he play the piano ? ALEC Don't think so . 
Drink ? ALEC Yesnothing queer about him . 
CECELIA Money ? ALEC Good Lordask him , he used to have a lot , and he's got some income now . 
CONNAGE Alec , of course we're glad to have any friend of yours ALEC You certainly ought to meet Amory . 
CONNAGE Of course , I want to . 
But I think it's so childish of you to leave a perfectly good home to go and live with two other boys in some impossible apartment . 
I hope it isn't in order that you can all drink as much as you want . 
He'll be a little neglected to night . 
This is Rosalind's week , you see . 
When a girl comes out , she needs all the attention . 
Well , then , prove it by coming here and hooking me . 
ALEC Rosalind hasn't changed a bit . 
ALEC She'll meet her match to night . 
CECELIA Well , Rosalind has still to meet the man she can't outdistance . 
Honestly , Alec , she treats men terribly . 
She abuses them and cuts them and breaks dates with them and yawns in their facesand they come back for more . 
She's ashe's a sort of vampire , I thinkand she can make girls do what she wants usuallyonly she hates girls . 
ALEC Personality runs in our family . 
CECELIA I guess it ran out before it got to me . 
ALEC Does Rosalind behave herself ? CECELIA Not particularly well . 
Oh , she's averagesmokes sometimes , drinks punch , frequently kissedOh , yescommon knowledgeone of the effects of the war , you know . 
CONNAGE Rosalind's almost finished so I can go down and meet your friend . 
Oh , mother CECELIA Mothers gone down . 
One's a hoop skirt with pantaloons the other's a one piece bathing suit . 
I'm quite charming in both of them . 
You're glad so you can get married and live on Long Island with the fast younger married set . 
You want life to be a chain of flirtation with a man for every link . 
ROSALIND Want it to be one ! You mean I've found it one . 
CECELIA Ha ! ROSALIND Cecelia , darling , you don't know what a trial it is to belike me . 
I've got to keep my face like steel in the street to keep men from winking at me . 
If I laugh hard from a front row in the theatre , the comedian plays to me for the rest of the evening . 
If I drop my voice , my eyes , my handkerchief at a dance , my partner calls me up on the 'phone every day for a week . 
CECELIA It must be an awful strain . 
ROSALIND The unfortunate part is that the only men who interest me at all are the totally ineligible ones . 
Nowif I were poor I'd go on the stage . 
CECELIA Yes , you might as well get paid for the amount of acting you do . 
I think I'll go down and meet Mr. Amory Blaine . 
Men don't know how to be really angry or really happyand the ones that do , go to pieces . 
CECELIA Well , I'm glad I don't have all your worries . 
Engaged ? Why , you little lunatic ! If mother heard you talking like that she'd send you off to boarding school , where you belong . 
ROSALIND Oh , be sure and do thatyou're such a help . 
HE Oh , I'm sorry . 
And you're Rosalind ? SHE I'm going to call you Amoryoh , come init's all rightmother'll be right in unfortunately . 
HE This is sort of a new wrinkle for me . 
SHE This is No Man's Land . 
See , here's my rougeeye pencils . 
HE I didn't know you were that way . 
SHE What did you expect ? HE I thought you'd be sort ofsort ofsexless , you know , swim and play golf . 
SHE Oh , I dobut not in business hours . 
HE Business ? SHE Six to twostrictly . 
HE I'd like to have some stock in the corporation . 
SHE Oh , it's not a corporationit's just Rosalind , Unlimited . 
Fifty one shares , name , good will , and everything goes at , a year . 
HE Sort of a chilly proposition . 
SHE Well , Amory , you don't minddo you ? When I meet a man that doesn't bore me to death after two weeks , perhaps it'll be different . 
HE Odd , you have the same point of view on men that I have on women . 
SHE I'm not really feminine , you knowin my mind . 
SHE No , youyou go onyou've made me talk about myself . 
HE Rules ? SHE My own rulesbut you Oh , Amory , I hear you're brilliant . 
The family expects so much of you . 
HE How encouraging ! SHE Alec said you'd taught him to think . 
Did you ? I didn't believe any one could . 
HE No. I'm really quite dull . 
The trees are green , The birds are singing in the trees , The girl sips her poison The bird flies away the girl dies . 
HE No , not that kind . 
SHE Modest too HE I'm afraid of you . 
I'm always afraid of a girluntil I've kissed her . 
SHE My dear boy , the war is over . 
HE So I'll always be afraid of you . 
SHE I suppose you will . 
This is a frightful thing to ask . 
HE But will youkiss me ? Or are you afraid ? SHE I'm never afraidbut your reasons are so poor . 
HE Rosalind , I really want to kiss you . 
Well , is your curiosity satisfied ? SHE Is yours ? HE No , it's only aroused . 
SHE I've kissed dozens of men . 
I suppose I'll kiss dozens more . 
HE Yes , I suppose you couldlike that . 
SHE Most people like the way I kiss . 
HE Good Lord , yes . 
Kiss me once more , Rosalind . 
SHE Nomy curiosity is generally satisfied at one . 
Is that a rule ? SHE I make rules to fit the cases . 
HE You and I are somewhat alikeexcept that I'm years older in experience . 
SHE How old are you ? HE Almost twenty three . 
HE I suppose you're the product of a fashionable school . 
SHE NoI'm fairly raw material . 
I was expelled from SpenceI've forgotten why . 
I don't want to fall in love with you SHE Nobody asked you to . 
HE But I probably will . 
SHE Hush ! Please don't fall in love with my mouthhair , eyes , shoulders , slippersbut not my mouth . 
Everybody falls in love with my mouth . 
HE No it isn'tlet's see . 
SHE Well , don'tif it's so hard . 
HE Shall we pretend ? So soon ? SHE We haven't the same standards of time as other people . 
SHE You're not sentimental ? HE No , I'm romantica sentimental person thinks things will lasta romantic person hopes against hope that they won't . 
You probably flatter yourself that that's a superior attitude . 
HE WellRosalind , Rosalind , don't arguekiss me again . 
SHE NoI have no desire to kiss you . 
HE You wanted to kiss me a minute ago . 
SHE ScoreHome Team One hundredOpponents Zero . 
CONNAGE GoodI've been wanting to speak to you alone before we go down stairs . 
ROSALIND Heavens ! you frighten me ! MRS . 
CONNAGE Rosalind , you've been a very expensive proposition . 
CONNAGE And you know your father hasn't what he once had . 
ROSALIND Oh , please don't talk about money . 
CONNAGE You can't do anything without it . 
This is our last year in this houseand unless things change Cecelia won't have the advantages you've had . 
Wellwhat is it ? MRS . 
CONNAGE So I ask you to please mind me in several things I've put down in my note book . 
The first one is don't disappear with young men . 
There may be a time when it's valuable , but at present I want you on the dance floor where I can find you . 
There are certain men I want to have you meet and I don't like finding you in some corner of the conservatory exchanging silliness with any oneor listening to it . 
ROSALIND Yes , listening to it is better . 
CONNAGE And don't waste a lot of time with the college setlittle boys nineteen and twenty years old . 
Mother , it's doneyou can't run everything now the way you did in the early nineties . 
There are several bachelor friends of your father's that I want you to meet to nightyoungish men . 
About forty five ? MRS . 
Why not ? ROSALIND Oh , quite all rightthey know life and are so adorably tired looking but they will dance . 
CONNAGE I haven't met Mr. Blainebut I don't think you'll care for him . 
He doesn't sound like a money maker . 
ROSALIND Mother , I never think about money . 
CONNAGE You never keep it long enough to think about it . 
Yes , I suppose some day I'll marry a ton of itout of sheer boredom . 
I had a wire from Hartford . 
Dawson Ryder is coming up . 
Now there's a young man I like , and he's floating in money . 
It seems to me that since you seem tired of Howard Gillespie you might give Mr. Ryder some encouragement . 
This is the third time he's been up in a month . 
ROSALIND How did you know I was tired of Howard Gillespie ? MRS . 
CONNAGE The poor boy looks so miserable every time he comes . 
ROSALIND That was one of those romantic , pre battle affairs . 
At any rate , make us proud of you to night . 
ROSALIND Don't you think I'm beautiful ? MRS . 
CONNAGE You know you are . 
Oh , yes , coming out is such a farce nowadays , you know . 
One really plays around so much before one is seventeen , that it's positively anticlimax . 
Yes , your graceI b'lieve I've heard my sister speak of you . 
Have a puffthey're very good . 
You don't smoke ? What a pity ! The king doesn't allow it , I suppose . 
SEVERAL HOURS LATER The corner of a den down stairs , filled by a very comfortable leather lounge . 
A small light is on each side above , and in the middle , over the couch hangs a painting of a very old , very dignified gentleman , period . 
Outside the music is heard in a fox trot . 
ROSALIND is seated on the lounge and on her left is HOWARD GILLESPIE , a vapid youth of about twenty four . 
He is obviously very unhappy , and she is quite bored . 
GILLESPIE What do you mean I've changed . 
I feel the same toward you . 
ROSALIND But you don't look the same to me . 
GILLESPIE Three weeks ago you used to say that you liked me because I was so blasi , so indifferentI still am . 
ROSALIND But not about me . 
I used to like you because you had brown eyes and thin legs . 
GILLESPIE They're still thin and brown . 
You're a vampire , that's all . 
ROSALIND The only thing I know about vamping is what's on the piano score . 
What confuses men is that I'm perfectly natural . 
I used to think you were never jealous . 
Now you follow me with your eyes wherever I go . 
GILLESPIE And you haven't kissed me for two weeks . 
I had an idea that after a girl was kissed she waswaswon . 
ROSALIND Those days are over . 
I have to be won all over again every time you see me . 
GILLESPIE Are you serious ? ROSALIND About as usual . 
There used to be two kinds of kisses First when girls were kissed and deserted second , when they were engaged . 
Now there's a third kind , where the man is kissed and deserted . 
If Mr. Jones of the nineties bragged he'd kissed a girl , every one knew he was through with her . 
If Mr. Jones of brags the same every one knows it's because he can't kiss her any more . 
Given a decent start any girl can beat a man nowadays . 
For that first moment , when he's interested . 
There is a momentOh , just before the first kiss , a whispered wordsomething that makes it worth while . 
GILLESPIE And then ? ROSALIND Then after that you make him talk about himself . 
RYDER I believe this is my dance , Rosalind . 
ROSALIND Well , Dawson , so you recognize me . 
Now I know I haven't got too much paint on . 
Mr. Ryder , this is Mr. Gillespie . 
RYDER Your party is certainly a success . 
ROSALIND Is it I haven't seen it lately . 
I'm weary Do you mind sitting out a minute ? RYDER MindI'm delighted . 
You know I loathe this rushing idea . 
See a girl yesterday , to day , to morrow . 
ROSALIND Dawson ! RYDER What ? ROSALIND I wonder if you know you love me . 
What Ohyou know you're remarkable ! ROSALIND Because you know I'm an awful proposition . 
Any one who marries me will have his hands full . 
RYDER Oh , I wouldn't say that . 
ROSALIND Oh , yes , I amespecially to the people nearest to me . 
I've changed my mind and I want to dance . 
Mother is probably having a fit . 
CECELIA Just my luck to get my own brother for an intermission . 
ALEC I'll go if you want me to . 
There's no color in a dance since the French officers went back . 
I don't want Amory to fall in love with Rosalind . 
CECELIA Why , I had an idea that that was just what you did want . 
ALEC I did , but since seeing these girlsI don't know . 
I'm awfully attached to Amory . 
He's sensitive and I don't want him to break his heart over somebody who doesn't care about him . 
CECELIA He's very good looking . 
She won't marry him , but a girl doesn't have to marry a man to break his heart . 
CECELIA What does it ? I wish I knew the secret . 
ALEC Why , you cold blooded little kitty . 
It's lucky for some that the Lord gave you a pug nose . 
Of course you've come to the best people to find out . 
She'd naturally be with us . 
CONNAGE Her father has marshalled eight bachelor millionaires to meet her . 
ALEC You might form a squad and march through the halls . 
CONNAGE I'm perfectly seriousfor all I know she may be at the Cocoanut Grove with some football player on the night of her dibut . 
Hadn't you better send the butler through the cellar ? MRS . 
Oh , you don't think she'd be there ? CECELIA He's only joking , mother . 
ALEC Mother had a picture of her tapping a keg of beer with some high hurdler . 
CONNAGE Let's look right away . 
GILLESPIE Rosalind Once more I ask you . 
ROSALIND Mr. Gillespie , this is Mr. Blaine . 
GILLESPIE I've met Mr. Blaine . 
From Lake Geneva , aren't you ? AMORY Yes . 
It's in thethe Middle West , isn't it ? AMORY Approximately . 
But I always felt that I'd rather be provincial hot tamale than soup without seasoning . 
GILLESPIE What ! AMORY Oh , no offense . 
ROSALIND He's too much people . 
AMORY I was in love with a people once . 
ROSALIND So ? AMORY Oh , yesher name was Isabellenothing at all to her except what I read into her . 
ROSALIND What happened ? AMORY Finally I convinced her that she was smarter than I wasthen she threw me over . 
Said I was critical and impractical , you know . 
ROSALIND What do you mean impractical ? AMORY Ohdrive a car , but can't change a tire . 
ROSALIND What are you going to do ? AMORY Can't sayrun for President , write ROSALIND Greenwich Village ? AMORY Good heavens , noI said writenot drink . 
ROSALIND I like business men . 
Clever men are usually so homely . 
AMORY I feel as if I'd known you for ages . 
ROSALIND Oh , are you going to commence the pyramid story ? AMORY NoI was going to make it French . 
I was Louis XIV and you were one of mymy Supposewe fell in love . 
ROSALIND I ve suggested pretending . 
AMORY If we did it would be very big . 
ROSALIND Why ? AMORY Because selfish people are in a way terribly capable of great loves . 
AMORY I can't say sweet things . 
Oh , nothingonly I want sentiment , real sentimentand I never find it . 
AMORY I never find anything else in the worldand I loathe it . 
ROSALIND It's so hard to find a male to gratify one's artistic taste . 
ROSALIND Listen ! they're playing Kiss Me Again . 
AMORY Well ? ROSALIND Well ? AMORY I love you . 
AMORY Oh , God , what have I done ? ROSALIND Nothing . 
AMORY I don't know why or how , but I love youfrom the moment I saw you . 
ROSALIND Me tooIIoh , to night's to night . 
Don't let me goI don't care who knows what I do . 
AMORY Say it ! ROSALIND I love younow . 
KISMET Within two weeks Amory and Rosalind were deeply and passionately in love . 
The critical qualities which had spoiled for each of them a dozen romances were dulled by the great wave of emotion that washed over them . 
It may be an insane love affair , she told her anxious mother , but it's not inane . 
But the spell became a trance , seemed to increase from day to day they began to talk of marrying in Julyin June . 
For the second time in his life Amory had had a complete bouleversement and was hurrying into line with his generation . 
A LITTLE INTERLUDE Amory wandered slowly up the avenue and thought of the night as inevitably histhe pageantry and carnival of rich dusk and dim streets . 
it seemed that he had closed the book of fading harmonies at last and stepped into the sensuous vibrant walks of life . 
Even his dreams now were faint violins drifting like summer sounds upon the summer air . 
The room was in darkness except for the faint glow of Tom's cigarette where he lounged by the open window . 
As the door shut behind him , Amory stood a moment with his back against it . 
How went the advertising business to day ? Amory sprawled on a couch . 
I loathed it as usual ! The momentary vision of the bustling agency was displaced quickly by another picture . 
My God ! She's wonderful ! Tom sighed . 
I can't tell you , repeated Amory , just how wonderful she is . 
I don't want you to know . 
I don't want any one to know . 
Another sigh came from the windowquite a resigned sigh . 
She's life and hope and happiness , my whole world now . 
He felt the quiver of a tear on his eyelid . 
Oh , Golly , Tom ! BITTER SWEET Sit like we do , she whispered . 
He sat in the big chair and held out his arms so that she could nestle inside them . 
I knew you'd come to night , she said softly , like summer , just when I needed you most . 
His lips moved lazily over her face . 
You taste so good , he sighed . 
How do you mean , lover ? Oh , just sweet , just sweet . 
Amory , she whispered , when you're ready for me I'll marry you . 
We won't have much at first . 
It hurts when you reproach yourself for what you can't give me . 
I've got your precious selfand that's enough for me . 
You know , don't you ? Oh , you know . 
Yes , but I want to hear you say it . 
I love you , Amory , with all my heart . 
Always , will you ? All my lifeOh , Amory What ? I want to belong to you . 
I want your people to be my people . 
I want to have your babies . 
But I haven't any people . 
Don't laugh at me , Amory . 
I'll do what you want , he said . 
No , I'll do what you want . 
Oh , you're so much a part , so much all of me . 
I'm so happy that I'm frightened . 
Wouldn't it be awful if this waswas the high point ? . 
She looked at him dreamily . 
Beauty and love pass , I know . 
Oh , there's sadness , too . 
I suppose all great happiness is a little sad . 
Beauty means the scent of roses and then the death of roses Beauty means the agony of sacrifice and the end of agony . 
And , Amory , we're beautiful , I know . 
I'm sure God loves us He loves you . 
You're his most precious possession . 
I'm not his , I'm yours . 
Amory , I belong to you . 
For the first time I regret all the other kisses now I know how much a kiss can mean . 
Then they would smoke and he would tell her about his day at the officeand where they might live . 
Sometimes , when he was particularly loquacious , she went to sleep in his arms , but he loved that Rosalindall Rosalinds as he had never in the world loved any one else . 
Intangibly fleeting , unrememberable hours . 
AQUATIC INCIDENT One day Amory and Howard Gillespie meeting by accident down town took lunch together , and Amory heard a story that delighted him . 
Gillespie after several cocktails was in a talkative mood he began by telling Amory that he was sure Rosalind was slightly eccentric . 
Immediately Rosalind insisted that Howard should climb up with her to see what it looked like . 
Of course I had to go , after thatand I nearly killed myself . 
I thought I was pretty good to even try it . 
Nobody else in the party tried it . 
Well , afterward Rosalind had the nerve to ask me why I stooped over when I dove . 
'It didn't make it any easier , she said , 'it just took all the courage out of it . 
I ask you , what can a man do with a girl like that ? Unnecessary , I call it . 
Gillespie failed to understand why Amory was smiling delightedly all through lunch . 
He thought perhaps he was one of these hollow optimists . 
FIVE WEEKS LATER Again the library of the Connage house . 
ROSALIND is alone , sitting on the lounge staring very moodily and unhappily at nothing . 
She has changed perceptiblyshe is a trifle thinner for one thing the light in her eyes is not so bright she looks easily a year older . 
Her mother comes in , muffled in an opera cloak . 
She takes in ROSALIND with a nervous glance . 
CONNAGE Alec is coming up to take me to this Barrie play , Et tu , Brutus . 
You have so many admirers lately that I couldn't imagine which one . 
Dawson Ryder is more patient than I thought he'd be . 
You haven't given him an evening this week . 
CONNAGE Oh , I won't interfere . 
You've already wasted over two months on a theoretical genius who hasn't a penny to his name , but go ahead , waste your life on him . 
You know he has a little incomeand you know he's earning thirty five dollars a week in advertising MRS . 
CONNAGE And it wouldn't buy your clothes . 
I have your best interests at heart when I tell you not to take a step you'll spend your days regretting . 
It's not as if your father could help you . 
Things have been hard for him lately and he's an old man . 
You'd be dependent absolutely on a dreamer , a nice , well born boy , but a dreamermerely clever . 
AMORY Good evening , Mrs. Connage . 
CONNAGE Good evening , Amory . 
ALEC Hi , Amory ! AMORY Hi , Alec ! Tom said he'd meet you at the theatre . 
ALEC Yeah , just saw him . 
How's the advertising to day ? Write some brilliant copy ? AMORY Oh , it's about the same . 
of two dollars a week . 
CONNAGE Come , Alec , I hear the car . 
ROSALIND I love your hands , more than anything . 
I see them often when you're away from meso tired I know every line of them . 
You've been this way four days now . 
You've got to be more encouraging or I can't work or eat or sleep . 
We'll have to make a start . 
I like having to make a start together . 
It's Dawson Ryder , that's what it is . 
He's been working on your nerves . 
You've been with him every afternoon for a week . 
People come and tell me they've seen you together , and I have to smile and nod and pretend it hasn't the slightest significance for me . 
And you won't tell me anything as it develops . 
ROSALIND Amory , if you don't sit down I'll scream . 
You know I love you , don't you ? AMORY Yes . 
ROSALIND You know I'll always love you AMORY Don't talk that way you frighten me . 
It sounds as if we weren't going to have each other . 
I've felt all afternoon that things were worse . 
I nearly went wild down at the officecouldn't write a line . 
ROSALIND There's nothing to tell , I say . 
AMORY Rosalind , you're playing with the idea of marrying Dawson Ryder . 
ROSALIND He's been asking me to all day . 
AMORY Well , he's got his nerve ! ROSALIND I like him . 
ROSALIND Don't be a silly idiot . 
You know you're the only man I've ever loved , ever will love . 
AMORY Rosalind , let's get marriednext week . 
AMORY Why not ? ROSALIND Oh , we can't . 
I'd be your squawin some horrible place . 
AMORY We'll have two hundred and seventy five dollars a month all told . 
ROSALIND Darling , I don't even do my own hair , usually . 
AMORY I'll do it for you . 
AMORY Rosalind , you can't be thinking of marrying some one else . 
Tell me ! You leave me in the dark . 
I can help you fight it out if you'll only tell me . 
We're pitiful , that's all . 
The very qualities I love you for are the ones that will always make you a failure . 
ROSALIND Ohit is Dawson Ryder . 
He's so reliable , I almost feel that he'd be aa background . 
AMORY You don't love him . 
ROSALIND I know , but I respect him , and he's a good man and a strong one . 
ROSALIND Wellhere's one little thing . 
Don't look so consciously suffering . 
It's been so perfectyou and I. So like a dream that I'd longed for and never thought I'd find . 
The first real unselfishness I've ever felt in my life . 
And I can't see it fade out in a colorless atmosphere ! AMORY It won'tit won't ! ROSALIND I'd rather keep it as a beautiful memorytucked away in my heart . 
AMORY Yes , women can do thatbut not men . 
I'd remember always , not the beauty of it while it lasted , but just the bitterness , the long bitterness . 
ROSALIND Don't ! AMORY All the years never to see you , never to kiss you , just a gate shut and barredyou don't dare be my wife . 
ROSALIND NonoI'm taking the hardest course , the strongest course . 
AMORY Come over here and kiss me . 
ROSALIND No. AMORY Don't you want to kiss me ? ROSALIND To night I want you to love me calmly and coolly . 
AMORY The beginning of the end . 
ROSALIND Amory , you're young . 
People excuse us now for our poses and vanities , for treating people like Sancho and yet getting away with it . 
But you've got a lot of knocks coming to you AMORY And you're afraid to take them with me . 
ROSALIND No , not that . 
AMORY But we haven't had . 
ROSALIND Amory , I'm yoursyou know it . 
There have been times in the last month I'd have been completely yours if you'd said so . 
But I can't marry you and ruin both our lives . 
AMORY We've got to take our chance for happiness . 
ROSALIND Dawson says I'd learn to love him . 
ROSALIND Lover ! Lover ! I can't do with you , and I can't imagine life without you . 
AMORY Rosalind , we're on each other's nerves . 
ROSALIND I can't , Amory . 
I can't be shut away from the trees and flowers , cooped up in a little flat , waiting for you . 
You'd hate me in a narrow atmosphere . 
I'd make you hate me . 
ROSALIND Can't you see AMORY I'm afraid I can't if you love me . 
You're afraid of taking two years' knocks with me . 
ROSALIND I wouldn't be the Rosalind you love . 
I can't give you up ! I can't , that's all ! I've got to have you ! ROSALIND You're being a baby now . 
I don't care ! You're spoiling our lives ! ROSALIND I'm doing the wise thing , the only thing . 
AMORY Are you going to marry Dawson Ryder ? ROSALIND Oh , don't ask me . 
You know I'm old in some waysin otherswell , I'm just a little girl . 
I like sunshine and pretty things and cheerfulnessand I dread responsibility . 
I don't want to think about pots and kitchens and brooms . 
I want to worry whether my legs will get slick and brown when I swim in the summer . 
AMORY And you love me . 
ROSALIND That's just why it has to end . 
We can't have any more scenes like this . 
BOOK TWO The Education of a Personage CHAPTER Experiments in Convalescence THE KNICKERBOCKER BAR , beamed upon by Maxfield Parrish's jovial , colorful Old King Cole , was well crowded . 
Later it would satisfy him in a vague way to be able to think that thing ended at exactly twenty minutes after eight on Thursday , June , . 
This was allowing for the walk from her housea walk concerning which he had afterward not the faintest recollection . 
As he fumbled clumsily with the olives at the free lunch table , a man approached and spoke to him , and the olives dropped from his nervous hands . 
It was some one he had known at Princeton he had no idea of the name . 
Hello , old boy he heard himself saying . 
Sure , you bet , Jim . 
Going to reunion ? You know ! Simultaneously he realized that he was not going to reunion . 
Get overseas ? Amory nodded , his eyes staring oddly . 
Stepping back to let some one pass , he knocked the dish of olives to a crash on the floor . 
Too bad , he muttered . 
Have a drink ? Wilson , ponderously diplomatic , reached over and slapped him on the back . 
You've had plenty , old boy . 
Amory eyed him dumbly until Wilson grew embarrassed under the scrutiny . 
Plenty , hell ! said Amory finally . 
I haven't had a drink to day . 
Have a drink or not ? cried Amory rudely . 
Together they sought the bar . 
I'll just take a Bronx . 
Wilson had another Amory had several more . 
They decided to sit down . 
At ten o'clock Wilson was displaced by Carling , class of . 
Amory , his head spinning gorgeously , layer upon layer of soft satisfaction setting over the bruised spots of his spirit , was discoursing volubly on the war . 
'S a mental was'e , he insisted with owl like wisdom . 
Two years my life spent inalleshual vacuity . 
Los' idealism , got be physcal anmal , he shook his fist expressively at Old King Cole , got be Prussian 'bout ev'thing , women 'specially . 
Use' be straight 'bout women college . 
He expressed his lack of principle by sweeping a seltzer bottle with a broad gesture to noisy extinction on the floor , but this did not interrupt his speech . 
Seek pleasure where find it for to morrow die . 
'At's philos'phy for me now on . 
Carling yawned , but Amory , waxing brilliant , continued Use' wonder 'bout thingspeople satisfied compromise , fif'y fif'y att'tude on life . 
What are you celebrating , Amory ? Amory leaned forward confidentially . 
Great moment blow my life . 
Can't tell you 'bout it He heard Carling addressing a remark to the bartender Give him a bromo seltzer . 
Amory shook his head indignantly . 
None that stuff ! But listen , Amory , you're making yourself sick . 
You're white as a ghost . 
He tried to look at himself in the mirror but even by squinting up one eye could only see as far as the row of bottles behind the bar . 
We go get somesome salad . 
He settled his coat with an attempt at nonchalance , but letting go of the bar was too much for him , and he slumped against a chair . 
We'll go over to Shanley's , suggested Carling , offering an elbow . 
With this assistance Amory managed to get his legs in motion enough to propel him across Forty second Street . 
He was conscious that he was talking in a loud voice , very succinctly and convincingly , he thought , about a desire to crush people under his heel . 
He consumed three club sandwiches , devouring each as though it were no larger than a chocolate drop . 
Then Rosalind began popping into his mind again , and he found his lips forming her name over and over . 
Next he was sleepy , and he had a hazy , listless sense of people in dress suits , probably waiters , gathering around the table . 
He was in a room and Carling was saying something about a knot in his shoe lace . 
Nemmine , he managed to articulate drowsily . 
STILL ALCOHOLIC He awoke laughing and his eyes lazily roamed his surroundings , evidently a bedroom and bath in a good hotel . 
His head was whirring and picture after picture was forming and blurring and melting before his eyes , but beyond the desire to laugh he had no entirely conscious reaction . 
He reached for the 'phone beside his bed . 
Then , with an effort , he struggled out of bed and ambled into the bathroom . 
When he emerged , rubbing himself lazily with a towel , he found the bar boy with the drinks and had a sudden desire to kid him . 
On reflection he decided that this would be undignified , so he waved him away . 
As the new alcohol tumbled into his stomach and warmed him , the isolated pictures began slowly to form a cinema reel of the day before . 
Again he saw Rosalind curled weeping among the pillows , again he felt her tears against his cheek . 
After a minute he opened his eyes and regarded the ceiling . 
Damned fool ! he exclaimed in disgust , and with a voluminous sigh rose and approached the bottle . 
After another glass he gave way loosely to the luxury of tears . 
Purposely he called up into his mind little incidents of the vanished spring , phrased to himself emotions that would make him react even more strongly to sorrow . 
We were so happy , he intoned dramatically , so very happy . 
Then he gave way again and knelt beside the bed , his head half buried in the pillow . 
My own girlmy own Oh He clinched his teeth so that the tears streamed in a flood from his eyes . 
my baby girl , all I had , all I wanted ! . 
Oh , my girl , come back , come back ! I need you . 
just misery we brought each other . 
She'll be shut away from me . 
I can't see her I can't be her friend . 
It's got to be that wayit's got to be And then again We've been so happy , so very happy . 
He laughed , rose , and crossed again to Lethe . 
At noon he ran into a crowd in the Biltmore bar , and the riot began again . 
He imagined afterward that it must have been The Jest . 
Then the Cocoanut Grove , where Amory slept again on a little balcony outside . 
Out in Shanley's , Yonkers , he became almost logical , and by a careful control of the number of high balls he drank , grew quite lucid and garrulous . 
Some one mentioned that a famous cabaret star was at the next table , so Amory rose and , approaching gallantly , introduced himself . 
this involved him in an argument , first with her escort and then with the headwaiterAmory's attitude being a lofty and exaggerated courtesy . 
he consented , after being confronted with irrefutable logic , to being led back to his own table . 
Decided to commit suicide , he announced suddenly . 
When ? Next year ? Now . 
Going to take a room at the Commodore , get into a hot bath and open a vein . 
He's getting morbid ! You need another rye , old boy ! We'll all talk it over to morrow . 
But Amory was not to be dissuaded , from argument at least . 
Did you ever get that way ? he demanded confidentially fortaccio . 
Sure ! Often ? My chronic state . 
One man said that he got so depressed sometimes that he seriously considered it . 
Another agreed that there was nothing to live for . 
Captain Corn , who had somehow rejoined the party , said that in his opinion it was when one's health was bad that one felt that way most . 
Amory's suggestion was that they should each order a Bronx , mix broken glass in it , and drink it off . 
He was awakened by a woman clinging to him , a pretty woman , with brown , disarranged hair and dark blue eyes . 
Take me home ! she cried . 
Hello ! said Amory , blinking . 
I like you , she announced tenderly . 
He noticed that there was a noisy man in the background and that one of his party was arguing with him . 
Fella I was with's a damn fool , confided the blue eyed woman . 
I want to go home with you . 
You drunk ? queried Amory with intense wisdom . 
Go home with him , he advised gravely . 
At this point the noisy man in the background broke away from his detainers and approached . 
Say ! he said fiercely . 
I brought this girl out here and you're butting in ! Amory regarded him coldly , while the girl clung to him closer . 
You let go that girl ! cried the noisy man . 
Amory tried to make his eyes threatening . 
You go to hell ! he directed finally , and turned his attention to the girl . 
Love first sight , he suggested . 
I love you , she breathed and nestled close to him . 
She did have beautiful eyes . 
Some one leaned over and spoke in Amory's ear . 
She's drunk and this fellow here brought her . 
Let him take care of her , then ! shouted Amory furiously . 
Oh , Lord ! cried Amory . 
Let's go ! Come on , the taxis are getting scarce ! Check , waiter . 
You don't know how true you spoke . 
AMORY ON THE LABOR QUESTION Two mornings later he knocked at the president's door at Bascome and Barlow's advertising agency . 
Come in ! Amory entered unsteadily . 
Mr. Barlow brought his glasses to the inspection and set his mouth slightly ajar that he might better listen . 
We haven't seen you for several days . 
Wellwellthis is I don't like it here . 
I thought our relations had been quiteahpleasant . 
You seemed to be a hard workera little inclined perhaps to write fancy copy I just got tired of it , interrupted Amory rudely . 
It didn't matter a damn to me whether Harebell's flour was any better than any one else's . 
In fact , I never ate any of it . 
So I got tired of telling people about itoh , I know I've been drinking Mr. Barlow's face steeled by several ingots of expression . 
You asked for a position Amory waved him to silence . 
And I think I was rottenly underpaid . 
Thirty five dollars a weekless than a good carpenter . 
You'd never worked before , said Mr. Barlow coolly . 
But it took about ten thousand dollars to educate me where I could write your darned stuff for you . 
Anyway , as far as length of service goes , you've got stenographers here you've paid fifteen a week for five years . 
I'm not going to argue with you , sir , said Mr. Barlow rising . 
Neither am I. I just wanted to tell you I'm quitting . 
They stood for a moment looking at each other impassively and then Amory turned and left the office . 
A LITTLE LULL Four days after that he returned at last to the apartment . 
Tom was engaged on a book review for The New Democracy on the staff of which he was employed . 
They regarded each other for a moment in silence . 
Well ? Well ? Good Lord , Amory , where'd you get the black eyeand the jaw ? Amory laughed . 
He peeled off his coat and bared his shoulders . 
Look here ! Tom emitted a low whistle . 
What hit you ? Amory laughed again . 
Oh , a lot of people . 
He slowly replaced his shirt . 
It was bound to come sooner or later and I wouldn't have missed it for anything . 
Who was it ? Well , there were some waiters and a couple of sailors and a few stray pedestrians , I guess . 
You ought to get beaten up just for the experience of it . 
You fall down after a while and everybody sort of slashes in at you before you hit the groundthen they kick you . 
I spent a day chasing you all over town , Amory . 
But you always kept a little ahead of me . 
I'd say you've been on some party . 
Amory tumbled into a chair and asked for a cigarette . 
You sober now ? asked Tom quizzically . 
Why ? Well , Alec has left . 
His family had been after him to go home and live , so he A spasm of pain shook Amory . 
Yes , it is too bad . 
We'll have to get some one else if we're going to stay here . 
I'll leave it to you , Tom . 
Amory walked into his bedroom . 
The first thing that met his glance was a photograph of Rosalind that he had intended to have framed , propped up against a mirror on his dresser . 
He looked at it unmoved . 
After the vivid mental pictures of her that were his portion at present , the portrait was curiously unreal . 
He went back into the study . 
Got a cardboard box ? No , answered Tom , puzzled . 
Why should I have ? Oh , yesthere may be one in Alec's room . 
He laughed and began to hum After you've gone . 
The string broke twice , and then he managed to secure it , dropped the package into the bottom of his trunk , and having slammed the lid returned to the study . 
Going out ? Tom's voice held an undertone of anxiety . 
Where ? Couldn't say , old keed . 
I told Sukey Brett I'd eat with him . 
Amory crossed the street and had a high ball then he walked to Washington Square and found a top seat on a bus . 
He disembarked at Forty third Street and strolled to the Biltmore bar . 
Don't misunderstand ! Amory had loved Rosalind as he would never love another living person . 
She had taken the first flush of his youth and brought from his unplumbed depths tenderness that had surprised him , gentleness and unselfishness that he had never given to another creature . 
Rosalind had drawn out what was more than passionate admiration he had a deep , undying affection for Rosalind . 
But there had been , near the end , so much dramatic tragedy , culminating in the arabesque nightmare of his three weeks' spree , that he was emotionally worn out . 
The people and surroundings that he remembered as being cool or delicately artificial , seemed to promise him a refuge . 
This tickled his vanity , but inspired him to no further effort . 
Mackenzie , Chesterton , Galsworthy , Bennett , had sunk in his appreciation from sagacious , life saturated geniuses to merely diverting contemporaries . 
In his search for cool people he remembered Mrs. Lawrence , a very intelligent , very dignified lady , a convert to the church , and a great devotee of Monsignor's . 
He called her on the 'phone one day . 
Yes , she remembered him perfectly no , Monsignor wasn't in town , was in Boston she thought he'd promised to come to dinner when he returned . 
Couldn't Amory take luncheon with her ? I thought I'd better catch up , Mrs. Lawrence , he said rather ambiguously when he arrived . 
Monsignor was here just last week , said Mrs. Lawrence regretfully . 
He was very anxious to see you , but he'd left your address at home . 
Did he think I'd plunged into Bolshevism ? asked Amory , interested . 
Oh , he's having a frightful time . 
Why ? About the Irish Republic . 
He thinks it lacks dignity . 
Well , what impressed you more than anything while you were in the army ? You look a great deal older . 
That's from another , more disastrous battle , he answered , smiling in spite of himself . 
But the armylet me seewell , I discovered that physical courage depends to a great extent on the physical shape a man is in . 
I found that I was as brave as the next manit used to worry me before . 
What else ? Well , the idea that men can stand anything if they get used to it , and the fact that I got a high mark in the psychological examination . 
Mrs. Lawrence reminded him vaguely of Beatrice , not in temperament , but in her perfect grace and dignity . 
Monsignor Darcy still thinks that you're his reincarnation , that your faith will eventually clarify . 
I'm rather pagan at present . 
It's just that religion doesn't seem to have the slightest bearing on life at my age . 
When he left her house he walked down Riverside Drive with a feeling of satisfaction . 
It was amusing to discuss again such subjects as this young poet , Stephen Vincent Benit , or the Irish Republic . 
There seemed suddenly to be much left in life , if only this revival of old interests did not mean that he was backing away from it againbacking away from life itself . 
RESTLESSNESS I'm tres old and tres bored , Tom , said Amory one day , stretching himself at ease in the comfortable window seat . 
He always felt most natural in a recumbent position . 
You used to be entertaining before you started to write , he continued . 
Now you save any idea that you think would do to print . 
Existence had settled back to an ambitionless normality . 
They had decided that with economy they could still afford the apartment , which Tom , with the domesticity of an elderly cat , had grown fond of . 
They went out very little to an occasional play , or to dinner at the Ritz or the Princeton Club . 
or the Plaza Rose Roombesides even that required several cocktails to come down to the intellectual level of the women present , as Amory had once put it to a horrified matron . 
This particular day on which he announced his ennui to Tom had been quite typical . 
He had risen at noon , lunched with Mrs. Lawrence , and then ridden abstractedly homeward atop one of his beloved buses . 
Why shouldn't you be bored , yawned Tom . 
Isn't that the conventional frame of mind for the young man of your age and condition ? Yes , said Amory speculatively , but I'm more than bored I am restless . 
Love and war did for you . 
Tom looked up in surprise . 
Yes it did , insisted Amory . 
I'm not sure it didn't kill it out of the whole world . 
Life is too huge and complex . 
The world is so overgrown that it can't lift its own fingers , and I was planning to be such an important finger I don't agree with you , Tom interrupted . 
There never were men placed in such egotistic positions sinceoh , since the French Revolution . 
You're mistaking this period when every nut is an individualist for a period of individualism . 
Wilson has only been powerful when he has represented he's had to compromise over and over again . 
Just as soon as Trotsky and Lenin take a definite , consistent stand they'll become merely two minute figures like Kerensky . 
Even Foch hasn't half the significance of Stonewall Jackson . 
War used to be the most individualistic pursuit of man , and yet the popular heroes of the war had neither authority nor responsibility Guynemer and Sergeant York . 
How could a schoolboy make a hero of Pershing ? A big man has no time really to do anything but just sit and be big . 
Then you don't think there will be any more permanent world heroes ? Yesin historynot in life . 
Carlyle would have difficulty getting material for a new chapter on 'The Hero as a Big Man . 
I'm a good listener to day . 
People try so hard to believe in leaders now , pitifully hard . 
My Lord , no man can stand prominence these days . 
It's the surest path to obscurity . 
People get sick of hearing the same name over and over . 
Then you blame it on the press ? Absolutely . 
Look at you you're on The New Democracy , considered the most brilliant weekly in the country , read by the men who do things and all that . 
The more strong lights , the more spiritual scandal you can throw on the matter , the more money they pay you , the more the people buy the issue . 
You , Tom d'Invilliers , a blighted Shelley , changing , shifting , clever , unscrupulous , represent the critical consciousness of the raceOh , don't protest , I know the stuff . 
Come on now , admit it . 
Tom laughed , and Amory continued triumphantly . 
Young students try to believe in older authors , constituents try to believe in their Congressmen , countries try to believe in their statesmen , but they can't . 
Too many voices , too much scattered , illogical , ill considered criticism . 
It's worse in the case of newspapers . 
For two cents the voter buys his politics , prejudices , and philosophy . 
What's all this got to do with your being bored ? Amory considered that it had much to do with it . 
How'll I fit in ? he demanded . 
As a matter of fact , the healthier he is the less that's true . 
The only alternative to letting it get you is some violent interest . 
Well , the war is over I believe too much in the responsibilities of authorship to write just now and business , well , business speaks for itself . 
It has no connection with anything in the world that I've ever been interested in , except a slim , utilitarian connection with economics . 
What I'd see of it , lost in a clerkship , for the next and best ten years of my life would have the intellectual content of an industrial movie . 
Try fiction , suggested Tom . 
Anyway , he continued , I haven't the vital urge . 
I wanted to be a regular human being but the girl couldn't see it that way . 
God ! Banish the thought . 
Why don't you tell me that 'if the girl had been worth having she'd have waited for you' ? No , sir , the girl really worth having won't wait for anybody . 
If I thought there'd be another I'd lose my remaining faith in human nature . 
Maybe I'll playbut Rosalind was the only girl in the wide world that could have held me . 
Well , yawned Tom , I've played confidant a good hour by the clock . 
Still , I'm glad to see you're beginning to have violent views again on something . 
I am , agreed Amory reluctantly . 
Yet when I see a happy family it makes me sick at my stomach Happy families try to make people feel that way , said Tom cynically . 
TOM THE CENSOR There were days when Amory listened . 
These were when Tom , wreathed in smoke , indulged in the slaughter of American literature . 
Fifty thousand dollars a year , he would cry . 
My God ! Look at them , look at themEdna Ferber , Gouverneur Morris , Fanny Hurst , Mary Roberts Rinehartnot producing among 'em one story or novel that will last ten years . 
This man CobbI don't tink he's either clever or amusingand what's more , I don't think very many people do , except the editors . 
He's just groggy with advertising . 
Andoh Harold Bell Wright oh Zane Grey They try . 
No , they don't even try . 
Some of them can write , but they won't sit down and do one honest novel . 
Most of them can't write , I'll admit . 
I believe Rupert Hughes tries to give a real , comprehensive picture of American life , but his style and perspective are barbarous . 
Ernest Poole and Dorothy Canfield try but they're hindered by their absolute lack of any sense of humor but at least they crowd their work instead of spreading it thin . 
Every author ought to write every book as if he were going to be beheaded the day he finished it . 
He dropped his arms until they swung loosely beside the chair and emitted faint grunts . 
I'm writing a satire on 'em now , calling it 'Boston Bards and Hearst Reviewers . 
Let's hear it , said Amory eagerly . 
I've only got the last few lines done . 
Let's hear 'em , if they're funny . 
You win the iron pansy . 
I'll buy you a meal on the arrogance of the last two lines . 
Amory did not entirely agree with Tom's sweeping damnation of American novelists and poets . 
He enjoyed both Vachel Lindsay and Booth Tarkington , and admired the conscientious , if slender , artistry of Edgar Lee Masters . 
What I hate is this idiotic drivel about 'I am GodI am manI ride the windsI look through the smokeI am the life sense . 
It's ghastly ! And I wish American novelists would give up trying to make business romantically interesting . 
Nobody wants to read about it , unless it's crooked business . 
That's another favorite , though I'll admit the Russians have the monopoly . 
Our specialty is stories about little girls who break their spines and get adopted by grouchy old men because they smile so much . 
You'd think we were a race of cheerful cripples and that the common end of the Russian peasant was suicide Six o'clock , said Amory , glancing at his wrist watch . 
I'll buy you a grea' big dinner on the strength of the Juvenalia of your collected editions . 
LOOKING BACKWARD July sweltered out with a last hot week , and Amory in another surge of unrest realized that it was just five months since he and Rosalind had met . 
Yet it was already hard for him to visualize the heart whole boy who had stepped off the transport , passionately desiring the adventure of life . 
One night while the heat , overpowering and enervating , poured into the windows of his room he struggled for several hours in a vague effort to immortalize the poignancy of that time . 
Strange dampsfull of the eyes of many men , crowded with life borne in upon a lull . 
There was a tanging in the midnight airsilence was dead and sound not yet awokenLife cracked like ice ! one brilliant note and there , radiant and pale , you stood . 
It was not a bit like yourself . 
You make a great mistake if you think you can be romantic without religion . 
Beware of losing yourself in the personality of another being , man or woman . 
I go to Washington this week . 
What I shall do in the future is hanging in the balance . 
Absolutely between ourselves I should not be surprised to see the red hat of a cardinal descend upon my unworthy head within the next eight months . 
In any event , I should like to have a house in New York or Washington where you could drop in for week ends . 
Amory , I'm very glad we're both alive this war could easily have been the end of a brilliant family . 
But in regard to matrimony , you are now at the most dangerous period of your life . 
You might marry in haste and repent at leisure , but I think you won't . 
From what you write me about the present calamitous state of your finances , what you want is naturally impossible . 
However , if I judge you by the means I usually choose , I should say that there will be something of an emotional crisis within the next year . 
I feel annoyingly out of date on you . 
With greatest affection , THAYER DARCY . 
Within a week after the receipt of this letter their little household fell precipitously to pieces . 
The immediate cause was the serious and probably chronic illness of Tom's mother . 
So they stored the furniture , gave instructions to sublet and shook hands gloomily in the Pennsylvania Station . 
Amory and Tom seemed always to be saying good by . 
Feeling very much alone , Amory yielded to an impulse and set off southward , intending to join Monsignor in Washington . 
But instead of two days his stay lasted from mid August nearly through September , for in Maryland he met Eleanor . 
But Eleanordid Amory dream her ? Afterward their ghosts played , yet both of them hoped from their souls never to meet . 
Nor will she sigh , any more than he would sigh . 
Eleanor tried to put it on paper once The fading things we only know We'll have forgotten . 
and if we meet We shall not care . 
not one tear will rise for this . 
If gray shapes drift beneath the foam We shall not see . 
They quarrelled dangerously because Amory maintained that sea and see couldn't possibly be used as a rhyme . 
And then Eleanor had part of another verse that she couldn't find a beginning for . 
still the years Will feed us wisdom . 
Age will go Back to the old For all our tears We shall not know . 
She belonged to the oldest of the old families of Ramilly County and lived in a big , gloomy house with her grandfather . 
She had been born and brought up in France . 
I see I am starting wrong . 
Amory was bored , as he usually was in the country . 
He used to go for far walks by himselfand wander along reciting Ulalume to the corn fields , and congratulating Poe for drinking himself to death in that atmosphere of smiling complacency . 
One afternoon he had strolled for several miles along a road that was new to him , and then through a wood on bad advice from a colored woman . 
Thunder rolled with menacing crashes up the valley and scattered through the woods in intermittent batteries . 
It was only half past five , but he could see scarcely ten steps before him , except when the lightning made everything vivid and grotesque for great sweeps around . 
Suddenly a strange sound fell on his ears . 
It was a song , in a low , husky voice , a girl's voice , and whoever was singing was very close to him . 
The lightning split the sky , but the song went on without a quaver . 
The girl was evidently in the field and the voice seemed to come vaguely from a haystack about twenty feet in front of him . 
Who the devil is there in Ramilly County , muttered Amory aloud , who would deliver Verlaine in an extemporaneous tune to a soaking haystack ? Somebody's there ! cried the voice unalarmed . 
Who are you ? Manfred , St . 
Christopher , or Queen Victoria ? I'm Don Juan ! Amory shouted on impulse , raising his voice above the noise of the rain and the wind . 
A delighted shriek came from the haystack . 
I know who you areyou're the blond boy that likes 'Ulalume'I recognize your voice . 
How do I get up ? he cried from the foot of the haystack , whither he had arrived , dripping wet . 
A head appeared over the edgeit was so dark that Amory could just make out a patch of damp hair and two eyes that gleamed like a cat's . 
Run back ! came the voice , and jump and I'll catch your handno , not thereon the other side . 
He followed directions and as he sprawled up the side , knee deep in hay , a small , white hand reached out , gripped his , and helped him onto the top . 
Here you are , Juan , cried she of the damp hair . 
Do you mind if I drop the Don ? You've got a thumb like mine ! he exclaimed . 
And you're holding my hand , which is dangerous without seeing my face . 
As if in answer to his prayers came a flash of lightning and he looked eagerly at her who stood beside him on the soggy haystack , ten feet above the ground . 
Sit down , she suggested politely , as the dark closed in on them . 
If you'll sit opposite me in this hollow you can have half of the raincoat , which I was using as a water proof tent until you so rudely interrupted me . 
I was asked , Amory said joyfully you asked meyou know you did . 
Don Juan always manages that , she said , laughing , but I shan't call you that any more , because you've got reddish hair . 
Instead you can recite 'Ulalume' and I'll be Psyche , your soul . 
Amory flushed , happily invisible under the curtain of wind and rain . 
They were sitting opposite each other in a slight hollow in the hay with the raincoat spread over most of them , and the rain doing for the rest . 
Amory was trying desperately to see Psyche , but the lightning refused to flash again , and he waited impatiently . 
Good Lord ! supposing she wasn't beautifulsupposing she was forty and pedanticheavens ! Suppose , only suppose , she was mad . 
But he knew the last was unworthy . 
I'm not , she said . 
Not what ? Not mad . 
I didn't think you were mad when I first saw you , so it isn't fair that you should think so of me . 
Oh , she was magnificentpale skin , the color of marble in starlight , slender brows , and eyes that glittered green as emeralds in the blinding glare . 
She was a witch , of perhaps nineteen , he judged , alert and dreamy and with the tell tale white line over her upper lip that was a weakness and a delight . 
He sank back with a gasp against the wall of hay . 
Now you've seen me , she said calmly , and I suppose you're about to say that my green eyes are burning into your brain . 
What color is your hair ? he asked intently . 
It's bobbed , isn't it ? Yes , it's bobbed . 
I don't know what color it is , she answered , musing , so many men have asked me . 
It's medium , I suppose No one ever looks long at my hair . 
I've got beautiful eyes , though , haven't I. I don't care what you say , I have beautiful eyes . 
Answer my question , Madeline . 
Don't remember them allbesides my name isn't Madeline , it's Eleanor . 
I might have guessed it . 
You look like Eleanoryou have that Eleanor look . 
You know what I mean . 
There was a silence as they listened to the rain . 
It's going down my neck , fellow lunatic , she offered finally . 
'And nebulous lustre was born . 
So I poked my eyes up over the hedge , but you had started to run , for some unknown reason , and so I saw but the back of your beautiful head . 
'Oh ! says I , 'there's a man for whom many of us might sigh , and I continued in my best Irish All right , Amory interrupted . 
Now go back to yourself . 
I'm one of those people who go through the world giving other people thrills , but getting few myself except those I read into men on such nights as these . 
I have the social courage to go on the stage , but not the energy I haven't the patience to write books and I never met a man I'd marry . 
However , I'm only eighteen . 
The storm was dying down softly and only the wind kept up its ghostly surge and made the stack lean and gravely settle from side to side . 
Amory was in a trance . 
He felt that every moment was precious . 
He had never met a girl like this beforeshe would never seem quite the same again . 
He didn't at all feel like a character in a play , the appropriate feeling in an unconventional situationinstead , he had a sense of coming home . 
I have just made a great decision , said Eleanor after another pause , and that is why I'm here , to answer another of your questions . 
I have just decided that I don't believe in immortality . 
Really ! how banal ! Frightfully so , she answered , but depressing with a stale , sickly depression , nevertheless . 
I came out here to get wetlike a wet hen wet hens always have great clarity of mind , she concluded . 
Go on , Amory said politely . 
WellI'm not afraid of the dark , so I put on my slicker and rubber boots and came out . 
So now I know I'm a materialist and I was fraternizing with the hay when you came out and stood by the woods , scared to death . 
Why , you little wretch cried Amory indignantly . 
Scared of what ? Yourself ! she shouted , and he jumped . 
She clapped her hands and laughed . 
Seesee ! Consciencekill it like me ! Eleanor Savage , materiologistno jumping , no starting , come early But I have to have a soul , he objected . 
I can't be rationaland I won't be molecular . 
She leaned toward him , her burning eyes never leaving his own and whispered with a sort of romantic finality I thought so , Juan , I feared soyou're sentimental . 
I'm a romantic little materialist . 
I'm not sentimentalI'm as romantic as you are . 
The idea , you know , is that the sentimental person thinks things will lastthe romantic person has a desperate confidence that they won't . 
I'm going home , she said sadly . 
Let's get off the haystack and walk to the cross roads . 
They slowly descended from their perch . 
She would not let him help her down and motioning him away arrived in a graceful lump in the soft mud where she sat for an instant , laughing at herself . 
Then she jumped to her feet and slipped her hand into his , and they tiptoed across the fields , jumping and swinging from dry spot to dry spot . 
A transcendent delight seemed to sparkle in every pool of water , for the moon had risen and the storm had scurried away into western Maryland . 
When Eleanor's arm touched his he felt his hands grow cold with deadly fear lest he should lose the shadow brush with which his imagination was painting wonders of her . 
His paganism soared that night and when she faded out like a gray ghost down the road , a deep singing came out of the fields and filled his way homeward . 
All night the summer moths flitted in and out of Amory's window all night large looming sounds swayed in mystic revery through the silver grainand he lay awake in the clear darkness . 
SEPTEMBER Amory selected a blade of grass and nibbled at it scientifically . 
I never fall in love in August or September , he proffered . 
When then ? Christmas or Easter . 
Easter ! She turned up her nose . 
Huh ! Spring in corsets ! Easter would bore spring , wouldn't she ? Easter has her hair braided , wears a tailored suit . 
Bind on thy sandals , oh , thou most fleet . 
Over the splendor and speed of thy feet quoted Eleanor softly , and then added I suppose Hallowe'en is a better day for autumn than Thanksgiving . 
Much betterand Christmas eve does very well for winter , but summer . 
Summer has no day , she said . 
We can't possibly have a summer love . 
So many people have tried that the name's become proverbial . 
Summer is only the unfulfilled promise of spring , a charlatan in place of the warm balmy nights I dream of in April . 
It's a sad season of life without growth . 
Fourth of July , Amory suggested facetiously . 
Don't be funny ! she said , raking him with her eyes . 
Well , what could fulfil the promise of spring ? She thought a moment . 
Oh , I suppose heaven would , if there was one , she said finally , a sort of pagan heavenyou ought to be a materialist , she continued irrelevantly . 
Why ? Because you look a good deal like the pictures of Rupert Brooke . 
To some extent Amory tried to play Rupert Brooke as long as he knew Eleanor . 
What he said , his attitude toward life , toward her , toward himself , were all reflexes of the dead Englishman's literary moods . 
Often she sat in the grass , a lazy wind playing with her short hair , her voice husky as she ran up and down the scale from Grantchester to Waikiki . 
There was something most passionate in Eleanor's reading aloud . 
The Ramillys were two old Mr. Ramilly and his granddaughter , Eleanor . 
She had lived in France with a restless mother whom Amory imagined to have been very like his own , on whose death she had come to America , to live in Maryland . 
She had gone to Baltimore first to stay with a bachelor uncle , and there she insisted on being a dibutante at the age of seventeen . 
She had a wild winter and arrived in the country in March , having quarrelled frantically with all her Baltimore relatives , and shocked them into fiery protest . 
Timothy's and Farmington , into paths of Bohemian naughtiness . 
That's as far as her story went she told him the rest herself , but that was later . 
Often they swam and as Amory floated lazily in the water he shut his mind to all thoughts except those of hazy soap bubble lands where the sun splattered through wind drunk trees . 
How could any one possibly think or worry , or do anything except splash and dive and loll there on the edge of time while the flower months failed . 
Let the days move oversadness and memory and pain recurred outside , and here , once more , before he went on to meet them he wanted to drift and be young . 
He felt that it would take all time , more than he could ever spare , to glue these strange cumbersome pictures into the scrap book of his life . 
It was all like a banquet where he sat for this half hour of his youth and tried to enjoy brilliant epicurean courses . 
Dimly he promised himself a time where all should be welded together . 
The despairing , dying autumn and our lovehow well they harmonize ! said Eleanor sadly one day as they lay dripping by the water . 
The Indian summer of our hearts he ceased . 
Tell me , she said finally , was she light or dark ? Light . 
Was she more beautiful than I am ? I don't know , said Amory shortly . 
Then they turned out of the moonlight into the trellised darkness of a vine hung pagoda , where there were scents so plaintive as to be nearly musical . 
Light a match , she whispered . 
I want to see you . 
Scratch ! Flare ! The night and the scarred trees were like scenery in a play , and to be there with Eleanor , shadowy and unreal , seemed somehow oddly familiar . 
Amory thought how it was only the past that ever seemed strange and umbelievable . 
We're just voices now , murmured Eleanor , little lonesome voices . 
That was my last match . 
Suddenly he caught her in his arms . 
You are mineyou know you're mine ! he cried wildly . 
the moonlight twisted in through the vines and listened . 
the fireflies hung upon their whispers as if to win his glance from the glory of their eyes . 
THE END OF SUMMER No wind is stirring in the grass not one wind stirs . 
Isn't it ghostly here ? If you can hold your horse's feet up , let's cut through the woods and find the hidden pools . 
It's after one , and you'll get the devil , he objected , and I don't know enough about horses to put one away in the pitch dark . 
Shut up , you old fool , she whispered irrelevantly , and , leaning over , she patted him lazily with her riding crop . 
You can leave your old plug in our stable and I'll send him over to morrow . 
But my uncle has got to drive me to the station with this old plug at seven o'clock . 
Don't be a spoil sportremember , you have a tendency toward wavering that prevents you from being the entire light of my life . 
Amory drew his horse up close beside , and , leaning toward her , grasped her hand . 
Say I amquick , or I'll pull you over and make you ride behind me . 
She looked up and smiled and shook her head excitedly . 
I think that comes in our programme about five o'clock . 
You little devil , Amory growled . 
You're going to make me stay up all night and sleep in the train like an immigrant all day to morrow , going back to New York . 
yet Beauty vanished with his breath , and , with her lovers , she was dead . 
Ever his wit and not her eyes , ever his art and not her hair Who'd learn a trick in rhyme , be wise and pause before his sonnet there . 
So all my words , however true , might sing you to a thousandth June , and no one ever know that you were Beauty for an afternoon . 
For what Shakespeare must have desired , to have been able to write with such divine despair , was that the lady should live . 
and now we have no real interest in her . 
This was the last night Amory ever saw Eleanor . 
He was leaving in the morning and they had agreed to take a long farewell trot by the cold moonlight . 
Then they started up Harper's Hill , walking their tired horses . 
Good Lord ! It's quiet here ! whispered Eleanor much more lonesome than the woods . 
I hate woods , Amory said , shuddering . 
Any kind of foliage or underbrush at night . 
Out here it's so broad and easy on the spirit . 
The long slope of a long hill . 
And the cold moon rolling moonlight down it . 
And thee and me , last and most important . 
It was quiet that nightthe straight road they followed up to the edge of the cliff knew few footsteps at any time . 
It was much colderso cold that it settled on them and drove all the warm nights from their minds . 
The end of summer , said Eleanor softly . 
Listen to the beat of our horses' hoofs'tump tump tump a tump . 
I guess that's the only thing that separates horses and clocks from us . 
Human beings can't go 'tump tump tump' without going crazy . 
The breeze freshened and Eleanor pulled her cape around her and shivered . 
Are you very cold ? asked Amory . 
No , I'm thinking about myselfmy black old inside self , the real one , with the fundamental honesty that keeps me from being absolutely wicked by making me realize my own sins . 
They were riding up close by the cliff and Amory gazed over . 
Where the fall met the ground a hundred feet below , a black stream made a sharp line , broken by tiny glints in the swift water . 
If I were born a hundred years from now , well and good , but now what's in store for meI have to marry , that goes without saying . 
Who ? I'm too bright for most men , and yet I have to descend to their level and let them patronize my intellect in order to get their attention . 
Every year that I don't marry I've got less chance for a first class man . 
At the best I can have my choice from one or two cities and , of course , I have to marry into a dinner coat . 
Listen , she leaned close again , I like clever men and good looking men , and , of course , no one cares more for personality than I do . 
Oh , just one person in fifty has any glimmer of what sex is . 
I'm hipped on Freud and all that , but it's rotten that every bit of real love in the world is ninety nine per cent passion and one little soupgon of jealousy . 
She finished as suddenly as she began . 
Of course , you're right , Amory agreed . 
It's a rather unpleasant overpowering force that's part of the machinery under everything . 
It's like an actor that lets you see his mechanics ! Wait a minute till I think this out . 
He paused and tried to get a metaphor . 
They had turned the cliff and were riding along the road about fifty feet to the left . 
You see every one's got to have some cloak to throw around it . 
But the truth is that sex is right in the middle of our purest abstractions , so close that it obscures vision . 
I can kiss you now and will . 
He leaned toward her in his saddle , but she drew away . 
I can'tI can't kiss you nowI'm more sensitive . 
You're more stupid then , he declared rather impatiently . 
Intellect is no protection from sex any more than convention is . 
What is ? she fired up . 
The Catholic Church or the maxims of Confucius ? Amory looked up , rather taken aback . 
That's your panacea , isn't it ? she cried . 
Oh , you're just an old hypocrite , too . 
Thousands of scowling priests keeping the degenerate Italians and illiterate Irish repentant with gabble gabble about the sixth and ninth commandments . 
It's just all cloaks , sentiment and spiritual rouge and panaceas . 
She let go her reins and shook her little fists at the stars . 
If there's a God let him strike mestrike me ! Talking about God again after the manner of atheists , Amory said sharply . 
His materialism , always a thin cloak , was torn to shreds by Eleanor's blasphemy . 
She knew it and it angered him that she knew it . 
Eleanor drew her horse up sharply and he reined in beside her . 
Will I ? she said in a queer voice that scared him . 
Will I ? Watch ! I'm going over the cliff ! And before he could interfere she had turned and was riding breakneck for the end of the plateau . 
He wheeled and started after her , his body like ice , his nerves in a vast clangor . 
There was no chance of stopping her . 
The moon was under a cloud and her horse would step blindly over . 
The horse went over with a frantic whinny . 
In a minute he was by Eleanor's side and saw that her eyes were open . 
She did not answer , but her lips moved and her eyes filled with sudden tears . 
Eleanor , are you hurt ? No I don't think so , she said faintly , and then began weeping . 
My horse dead ? Good God Yes ! Oh ! she wailed . 
I thought I was going over . 
I didn't know He helped her gently to her feet and boosted her onto his saddle . 
So they started homeward Amory walking and she bent forward on the pommel , sobbing bitterly . 
I've got a crazy streak , she faltered , twice before I've done things like that . 
When I was eleven mother wentwent madstark raving crazy . 
We were in Vienna All the way back she talked haltingly about herself , and Amory's love waned slowly with the moon . 
At her door they started from habit to kiss good night , but she could not run into his arms , nor were they stretched to meet her as in the week before . 
For a minute they stood there , hating each other with a bitter sadness . 
But as Amory had loved himself in Eleanor , so now what he hated was only a mirror . 
Their poses were strewn about the pale dawn like broken glass . 
The stars were long gone and there were left only the little sighing gusts of wind and the silences between . 
but naked souls are poor things ever , and soon he turned homeward and let new lights come in with the sun . 
Here we may whisper unheard , unafraid of the night . 
I have loved you so . 
till you stirred in your sleep . 
we are chronicle now to the eerie . 
Curious metal from meteors that failed in the sky Earth born the tireless is stretched by the water , quite weary , Close to this ununderstandable changeling that's I. . 
Fear is an echo we traced to Security's daughter Now we are faces and voices . 
and less , too soon , Whispering half love over the lilt of the water . 
Youth the penny that bought delight of the moon . 
A POEM AMORY SENT TO ELEANOR AND WHICH HE CALLED SUMMER STORM Faint winds , and a song fading and leaves falling , Faint winds , and far away a fading laughter . 
And the rain and over the fields a voice calling . 
Our gray blown cloud scurries and lifts above , Slides on the sun and flutters there to waft her Sisters on . 
There was a summer every rain was rare There was a season every wind was warm . 
And now you pass me in the mist . 
Now night Tears from her wetted breast the splattered blouse Of day , glides down the dreaming hills , tear bright , To cover with her hair the eerie green . 
Love for the glistening after Quiet the trees to their last tops . 
Faint winds , and far away a fading laughter . 
BOOK TWO The Education of a Personage CHAPTER The Supercilious Sacrifice ATLANTIC CITY . 
Amory paced the board walk at day's end , lulled by the everlasting surge of changing waves , smelling the half mournful odor of the salt breeze . 
The sea , he thought , had treasured its memories deeper than the faithless land . 
WellAmory Blaine ! Amory looked down into the street below . 
A low racing car had drawn to a stop and a familiar cheerful face protruded from the driver's seat . 
Come on down , goopher ! cried Alec . 
Amory called a greeting and descending a flight of wooden steps approached the car . 
He and Alec had been meeting intermittently , but the barrier of Rosalind lay always between them . 
He was sorry for this he hated to lose Alec . 
Mr. Blaine , this is Miss Waterson , Miss Wayne , and Mr. Tully . 
How d'y do ? Amory , said Alec exuberantly , if you'll jump in we'll take you to some secluded nook and give you a wee jolt of Bourbon . 
Step inmove over , Jill , and Amory will smile very handsomely at you . 
Amory squeezed into the back seat beside a gaudy , vermilion lipped blonde . 
Hello , Doug Fairbanks , she said flippantly . 
Walking for exercise or hunting for company ? I was counting the waves , replied Amory gravely . 
I'm going in for statistics . 
Don't kid me , Doug . 
When they reached an unfrequented side street Alec stopped the car among deep shadows . 
What you doing down here these cold days , Amory ? he demanded , as he produced a quart of Bourbon from under the fur rug . 
Indeed , he had had no definite reason for coming to the coast . 
Do you remember that party of ours , sophomore year ? he asked instead . 
Do I ? When we slept in the pavilions up in Asbury Park Lord , Alec ! It's hard to think that Jesse and Dick and Kerry are all three dead . 
These dreary fall days depress me enough . 
Doug here is sorta gloomy anyways , she commented . 
Tell him to drink deepit's good and scarce these days . 
You see , Tully and I have two rooms with bath between at the Ranier , and he's got to go back to New York . 
I don't want to have to move . 
Question is , will you occupy one of the rooms ? Amory was willing , if he could get in right away . 
You'll find the key in the office the rooms are in my name . 
Declining further locomotion or further stimulation , Amory left the car and sauntered back along the board walk to the hotel . 
He was in an eddy again , a deep , lethargic gulf , without desire to work or write , love or dissipate . 
For the first time in his life he rather longed for death to roll over his generation , obliterating their petty fevers and struggles and exultations . 
His youth seemed never so vanished as now in the contrast between the utter loneliness of this visit and that riotous , joyful party of four years before . 
To hold a man a woman has to appeal to the worst in him . 
This sentence was the thesis of most of his bad nights , of which he felt this was to be one . 
His mind had already started to play variations on the subject . 
In his room he undressed and wrapping himself in blankets to keep out the chill October air drowsed in an armchair by the open window . 
He felt that life had rejected him . 
When he awoke it was very late and quiet . 
The blanket had slipped partly off his shoulders and he touched his skin to find it damp and cold . 
Then he became aware of a tense whispering not ten feet away . 
Don't make a sound ! It was Alec's voice . 
Jilldo you hear me ? Yes breathed very low , very frightened . 
They were in the bathroom . 
Then his ears caught a louder sound from somewhere along the corridor outside . 
It was a mumbling of men's voices and a repeated muffled rapping . 
Amory threw off the blankets and moved close to the bathroom door . 
My God ! came the girl's voice again . 
You'll have to let them in . 
Sh ! Suddenly a steady , insistent knocking began at Amory's hall door and simultaneously out of the bathroom came Alec , followed by the vermilion lipped girl . 
They were both clad in pajamas . 
Amory ! an anxious whisper . 
What's the trouble ? It's house detectives . 
My God , Amorythey're just looking for a test case Well , better let them in . 
They can get me under the Mann Act . 
The girl followed him slowly , a rather miserable , pathetic figure in the darkness . 
Amory tried to plan quickly . 
You make a racket and let them in your room , he suggested anxiously , and I'll get her out by this door . 
They're here too , though . 
Can't you give a wrong name ? No chance . 
I registered under my own name besides , they'd trail the auto license number . 
Jill says one of the house detectives knows her . 
The girl had stolen to the bed and tumbled upon it lay there listening wretchedly to the knocking which had grown gradually to a pounding . 
and over by the window among the stirring curtains stood something else , featureless and indistinguishable , yet strangely familiar . 
Simultaneously two great cases presented themselves side by side to Amory all that took place in his mind , then , occupied in actual time less than ten seconds . 
He had finally taken his own lifeyears afterward the facts had come out . 
At the time the story had both puzzled and worried Amory . 
Now he realized the truth that sacrifice was no purchase of freedom . 
Amory knew that afterward Alec would secretly hate him for having done so much for him . 
Sacrifice by its very nature was arrogant and impersonal sacrifice should be eternally supercilious . 
Weep not for me but for thy children . 
Thatthought Amorywould be somehow the way God would talk to me . 
He clinched his hands in quick ecstatic excitement . 
the ten seconds were up . 
Do what I say , Alecdo what I say . 
Do you understand ? Alec looked at him dumblyhis face a tableau of anguish . 
You have a family , continued Amory slowly . 
You have a family and it's important that you should get out of this . 
Do you hear me ? He repeated clearly what he had said . 
Do you hear me ? I hear you . 
The voice was curiously strained , the eyes never for a second left Amory's . 
Alec , you're going to lie down here . 
If any one comes in you act drunk . 
You do what I sayif you don't I'll probably kill you . 
There was another moment while they stared at each other . 
Then Amory went briskly to the bureau and , taking his pocket book , beckoned peremptorily to the girl . 
He heard one word from Alec that sounded like penitentiary , then he and Jill were in the bathroom with the door bolted behind them . 
You're here with me , he said sternly . 
You've been with me all evening . 
She nodded , gave a little half cry . 
In a second he had the door of the other room open and three men entered . 
There was an immediate flood of electric light and he stood there blinking . 
You've been playing a little too dangerous a game , young man ! Amory laughed . 
Well ? The leader of the trio nodded authoritatively at a burly man in a check suit . 
I got you , Mr. O'May , said Olson , nodding . 
The other two took a curious glance at their quarry and then withdrew , closing the door angrily behind them . 
The burly man regarded Amory contemptuously . 
He shook his head implying that he had struggled over Amory but now gave him up . 
Well , said Amory rather impatiently , what do you want us to do ? Get dressed , quickand tell your friend not to make such a racket . 
Jill was sobbing noisily on the bed , but at these words she subsided sulkily and , gathering up her clothes , retired to the bathroom . 
As Amory slipped into Alec's B. V. D. 's he found that his attitude toward the situation was agreeably humorous . 
The aggrieved virtue of the burly man made him want to laugh . 
Anybody else here ? demanded Olson , trying to look keen and ferret like . 
Fellow who had the rooms , said Amory carelessly . 
He's drunk as an owl , though . 
Been in there asleep since six o'clock . 
I'll take a look at him presently . 
How did you find out ? asked Amory curiously . 
Night clerk saw you go up stairs with this woman . 
Amory nodded Jill reappeared from the bathroom , completely if rather untidily arrayed . 
Now then , began Olson , producing a note book , I want your real namesno damn John Smith or Mary Brown . 
Wait a minute , said Amory quietly . 
Just drop that big bully stuff . 
We merely got caught , that's all . 
Amory gave his name and New York address . 
And the lady ? Miss Jill Say , cried Olson indignantly , just ease up on the nursery rhymes . 
What's your name ? Sarah Murphy ? Minnie Jackson ? Oh , my God ! cried the girl cupping her tear stained face in her hands . 
I don't want my mother to know . 
I don't want my mother to know . 
Come on now ! Shut up ! cried Amory at Olson . 
Stella Robbins , she faltered finally . 
General Delivery , Rugway , New Hampshire . 
Olson snapped his note book shut and looked at them very ponderously . 
Butthe hotel is going to let you off . 
It doesn't want to get in the papers , cried Jill fiercely . 
Let us off ! Huh ! A great lightness surrounded Amory . 
He realized that he was safe and only then did he appreciate the full enormity of what he might have incurred . 
However , continued Olson , there's a protective association among the hotels . 
There's been too much of this stuff , and we got a 'rangement with the newspapers so that you get a little free publicity . 
Not the name of the hotel , but just a line sayin' that you had a little trouble in 'lantic City . 
You're gettin' off lightdamn lightbut Come on , said Amory briskly . 
Let's get out of here . 
We don't need a valedictory . 
Olson walked through the bathroom and took a cursory glance at Alec's still form . 
Then he extinguished the lights and motioned them to follow him . 
As they walked into the elevator Amory considered a piece of bravadoyielded finally . 
He reached out and tapped Olson on the arm . 
Would you mind taking off your hat ? There's a lady in the elevator . 
Olson's hat came off slowly . 
Then the chill outdoorswhere the salt air was fresher and keener still with the first hints of morning . 
You can get one of those taxis and beat it , said Olson , pointing to the blurred outline of two machines whose drivers were presumably asleep inside . 
Good by , said Olson . 
He reached in his pocket suggestively , but Amory snorted , and , taking the girl's arm , turned away . 
Where did you tell the driver to go ? she asked as they whirled along the dim street . 
If that guy writes my mother He won't . 
Nobody'll ever know about thisexcept our friends and enemies . 
Dawn was breaking over the sea . 
It's getting blue , she said . 
It does very well , agreed Amory critically , and then as an after thought It's almost breakfast timedo you want something to eat ? Food she said with a cheerful laugh . 
Food is what queered the party . 
We ordered a big supper to be sent up to the room about two o'clock . 
Alec didn't give the waiter a tip , so I guess the little bastard snitched . 
Jill's low spirits seemed to have gone faster than the scattering night . 
Let me tell you , she said emphatically , when you want to stage that sorta party stay away from liquor , and when you want to get tight stay away from bedrooms . 
He tapped suddenly at the glass and they drew up at the door of an all night restaurant . 
Is Alec a great friend of yours ? asked Jill as they perched themselves on high stools inside , and set their elbows on the dingy counter . 
He probably won't want to be any moreand never understand why . 
It was sorta crazy you takin' all that blame . 
Is he pretty important ? Kinda more important than you are ? Amory laughed . 
That remains to be seen , he answered . 
, had been requested to leave his hotel in Atlantic City because of entertaining in his room a lady not his wife . 
She was gone , definitely , finally gone . 
So far as he was concerned , young Rosalind was dead . 
Last of all , on a dazed Sunday night , a telegram told him of Monsignor Darcy's sudden death in Philadelphia five days before . 
He knew then what it was that he had perceived among the curtains of the room in Atlantic City . 
But old monotony is there Endless avenues of rain . 
But old monotony is there Endless avenues of rain . 
UNDER THE GLASS portcullis of a theatre Amory stood , watching the first great drops of rain splatter down and flatten to dark stains on the sidewalk . 
The air became gray and opalescent a solitary light suddenly outlined a window over the way then another light then a hundred more danced and glimmered into vision . 
Under his feet a thick , iron studded skylight turned yellow in the street the lamps of the taxi cabs sent out glistening sheens along the already black pavement . 
The unwelcome November rain had perversely stolen the day's last hour and pawned it with that ancient fence , the night . 
The silence of the theatre behind him ended with a curious snapping sound , followed by the heavy roaring of a rising crowd and the interlaced clatter of many voices . 
He stood aside , edged a little into the rain to let the throng pass . 
After the thick crowd came another scattering a stray half dozen a man on crutches finally the rattling bang of folding seats inside announced that the ushers were at work . 
New York seemed not so much awakening as turning over in its bed . 
The rain gave Amory a feeling of detachment , and the numerous unpleasant aspects of city life without money occurred to him in threatening procession . 
And always there was the economical stuffiness of indoor winter , and the long summers , nightmares of perspiration between sticky enveloping walls . 
dirty restaurants where careless , tired people helped themselves to sugar with their own used coffee spoons , leaving hard brown deposits in the bowl . 
It was not so bad where there were only men or else only women it was when they were vilely herded that it all seemed so rotten . 
It was some shame that women gave off at having men see them tired and poorit was some disgust that men had for women who were tired and poor . 
I detest poor people , thought Amory suddenly . 
I hate them for being poor . 
Poverty may have been beautiful once , but it's rotten now . 
It's the ugliest thing in the world . 
It's essentially cleaner to be corrupt and rich than it is to be innocent and poor . 
Probably , thought Amory , what he said was My God ! Aren't people horrible ! Never before in his life had Amory considered poor people . 
He thought cynically how completely he was lacking in all human sympathy . 
O. Henry had found in these people romance , pathos , love , hateAmory saw only coarseness , physical filth , and stupidity . 
He made no self accusations never any more did he reproach himself for feelings that were natural and sincere . 
He accepted all his reactions as a part of him , unchangeable , unmoral . 
This problem of poverty transformed , magnified , attached to some grander , more dignified attitude might some day even be his problem at present it roused only his profound distaste . 
He walked over to Fifth Avenue , dodging the blind , black menace of umbrellas , and standing in front of Delmonico's hailed an auto bus . 
Somewhere in his mind a conversation began , rather resumed its place in his attention . 
It was composed not of two voices , but of one , which acted alike as questioner and answerer Question . 
Wellwhat's the situation ? Answer . 
That I have about twenty four dollars to my name . 
Q. You have the Lake Geneva estate . 
A. But I intend to keep it . 
Q. Can you live ? A. I can't imagine not being able to . 
People make money in books and I've found that I can always do the things that people do in books . 
Really they are the only things I can do . 
A. I don't know what I'll donor have I much curiosity . 
To morrow I'm going to leave New York for good . 
It's a bad town unless you're on top of it . 
Q. Do you want a lot of money ? A. No. I am merely afraid of being poor . 
Q. Very afraid ? A. Just passively afraid . 
Q. Where are you drifting ? A. Don't ask me ! Q. Don't you care ? A. Rather . 
I don't want to commit moral suicide . 
Q. Have you no interests left ? A. None . 
I've no more virtue to lose . 
Just as a cooling pot gives off heat , so all through youth and adolescence we give off calories of virtue . 
A. That's why a good man going wrong attracts people . 
They stand around and literally warm themselves at the calories of virtue he gives off . 
Sarah makes an unsophisticated remark and the faces simper in delight How innocent the poor child is ! They're warming themselves at her virtue . 
But Sarah sees the simper and never makes that remark again . 
Only she feels a little colder after that . 
Q. All your calories gone ? A. All of them . 
I'm beginning to warm myself at other people's virtue . 
Q. Are you corrupt ? A. I think so . 
I'm not sure about good and evil at all any more . 
Q. Is that a bad sign in itself ? A. Not necessarily . 
Youth is like having a big plate of candy . 
Sentimentalists think they want to be in the pure , simple state they were in before they ate the candy . 
They just want the fun of eating it all over again . 
The matron doesn't want to repeat her girlhoodshe wants to repeat her honeymoon . 
I don't want to repeat my innocence . 
I want the pleasure of losing it again . 
Q. Where are you drifting ? This dialogue merged grotesquely into his mind's most familiar statea grotesque blending of desires , worries , exterior impressions and physical reactions . 
One Hundred and Twenty seventh Streetor One Hundred and Thirty seventh Street . 
Two and three look alikeno , not much . 
are clothes absorbing wetness from seat , or seat absorbing dryness from clothes ? . 
Sitting on wet substance gave appendicitis , so Froggy Parker's mother said . 
Well , he'd had itI'll sue the steamboat company , Beatrice said , and my uncle has a quarter interestdid Beatrice go to heaven ? . 
probably not He represented Beatrice's immortality , also love affairs of numerous dead men who surely had never thought of him . 
if it wasn't appendicitis , influenza maybe . 
What ? One Hundred and Twentieth Street ? That must have been One Hundred and Twelfth back there . 
One O Two instead of One Two Seven . 
Rosalind not like Beatrice , Eleanor like Beatrice , only wilder and brainier . 
Apartments along here expensiveprobably hundred and fifty a monthmaybe two hundred . 
Uncle had only paid hundred a month for whole great big house in Minneapolis . 
Questionwere the stairs on the left or right as you came in ? Anyway , in Univee they were straight back and to the left . 
What a dirty riverwant to go down there and see if it's dirtyFrench rivers all brown or black , so were Southern rivers . 
Twenty four dollars meant four hundred and eighty doughnuts . 
He could live on it three months and sleep in the park . 
Wonder where Jill wasJill Bayne , Fayne , Saynewhat the devilneck hurts , darned uncomfortable seat . 
No desire to sleep with Jill , what could Alec see in her ? Alec had a coarse taste in women . 
Own taste the best Isabelle , Clara , Rosalind , Eleanor , were all American . 
Eleanor would pitch , probably southpaw . 
Rosalind was outfield , wonderful hitter , Clara first base , maybe . 
Wonder what Humbird's body looked like now . 
If he himself hadn't been bayonet instructor he'd have gone up to line three months sooner , probably been killed . 
He turned northward and followed the shore , jumped a small wire fence and found himself in a great disorderly yard adjoining a dock . 
The hulls of many boats in various stages of repair were around him he smelled sawdust and paint and the scarcely distinguishable fiat odor of the Hudson . 
A man approached through the heavy gloom . 
Got a pass ? No. Is this private ? This is the Hudson River Sporting and Yacht Club . 
Oh ! I didn't know . 
Well began the man dubiously . 
I'll go if you want me to . 
The man made non committal noises in his throat and passed on . 
Amory seated himself on an overturned boat and leaned forward thoughtfully until his chin rested in his hand . 
Misfortune is liable to make me a damn bad man , he said slowly . 
IN THE DROOPING HOURS While the rain drizzled on Amory looked futilely back at the stream of his life , all its glitterings and dirty shallows . 
To begin with , he was still afraidnot physically afraid any more , but afraid of people and prejudice and misery and monotony . 
Yet , deep in his bitter heart , he wondered if he was after all worse than this man or the next . 
Quick as a flash he turned away , wondering with a touch of panic whether something in the brooding despair of his mood had made a darkness in its tiny soul . 
You're too much wrapped up in yourself , he heard some one say . 
And again Get out and do some real work Stop worrying He fancied a possible future comment of his own . 
YesI was perhaps an egotist in youth , but I soon found it made me morbid to think too much about myself . 
Suddenly he felt an overwhelming desire to let himself go to the devilnot to go violently as a gentleman should , but to sink safely and sensuously out of sight . 
delivered from success and hope and poverty into that long chute of indulgence which led , after all , only to the artificial lake of death . 
His instinct perceived the fetidness of poverty , but no longer ferreted out the deeper evils in pride and sensuality . 
There were no more wise men there were no more heroes Burne Holiday was sunk from sight as though he had never lived Monsignor was dead . 
Amory had grown up to a thousand books , a thousand lies he had listened eagerly to people who pretended to know , who knew nothing . 
The mystical reveries of saints that had once filled him with awe in the still hours of night , now vaguely repelled him . 
The Byrons and Brookes who had defied life from mountain tops were in the end but flaneurs and poseurs , at best mistaking the shadow of courage for the substance of wisdom . 
Amory based his loss of faith in help from others on several sweeping syllogisms . 
Granted that his generation , however bruised and decimated from this Victorian war , were the heirs of progress . 
Amory had seen Monsignor go to the houses of stolid philistines , read popular novels furiously , saturate himself in routine , to escape from that horror . 
And this priest , a little wiser , somewhat purer , had been , Amory knew , not essentially older than he . 
Amory was alonehe had escaped from a small enclosure into a great labyrinth . 
He was where Goethe was when he began Faust he was where Conrad was when he wrote Almayer's Folly . 
Amory said to himself that there were essentially two sorts of people who through natural clarity or disillusion left the enclosure and sought the labyrinth . 
He began for the first time in his life to have a strong distrust of all generalities and epigrams . 
They were too easy , too dangerous to the public mind . 
Yet all thought usually reached the public after thirty years in some such form Benson and Chesterton had popularized Huysmans and Newman Shaw had sugar coated Nietzsche and Ibsen and Schopenhauer . 
The man in the street heard the conclusions of dead genius through some one else's clever paradoxes and didactic epigrams . 
Life was a damned muddle . 
a football game with every one off side and the referee gotten rid ofevery one claiming the referee would have been on his side . 
people plunging blindly in and then rushing wildly back , shouting that they had found it . 
the invisible kingthe ilan vitalthe principle of evolution . 
writing a book , starting a war , founding a school . 
Amory , even had he not been a selfish man , would have started all inquiries with himself . 
In self reproach and loneliness and disillusion he came to the entrance of the labyrinth . 
Another dawn flung itself across the river , a belated taxi hurried along the street , its lamps still shining like burning eyes in a face white from a night's carouse . 
A melancholy siren sounded far down the river . 
MONSIGNOR Amory kept thinking how Monsignor would have enjoyed his own funeral . 
It was magnificently Catholic and liturgical . 
Bishop O'Neill sang solemn high mass and the cardinal gave the final absolutions . 
To Amory it was a haunting grief to see him lying in his coffin , with closed hands upon his purple vestments . 
His face had not changed , and , as he never knew he was dying , it showed no pain or fear . 
It was Amory's dear old friend , his and the others'for the church was full of people with daft , staring faces , the most exalted seeming the most stricken . 
The cardinal , like an archangel in cope and mitre , sprinkled the holy water the organ broke into sound the choir began to sing the Requiem Eternam . 
All these people grieved because they had to some extent depended upon Monsignor . 
Their grief was more than sentiment for the crack in his voice or a certain break in his walk , as Wells put it . 
These people had leaned on Monsignor's faith , his way of finding cheer , of making religion a thing of lights and shadows , making all light and shadow merely aspects of God . 
People felt safe when he was near . 
Of Amory's attempted sacrifice had been born merely the full realization of his disillusion , but of Monsignor's funeral was born the romantic elf who was to enter the labyrinth with him . 
On the contrary , Amory felt an immense desire to give people a sense of security . 
THE BIG MAN WITH GOGGLES On the day that Amory started on his walk to Princeton the sky was a colorless vault , cool , high and barren of the threat of rain . 
It was a gray day , that least fleshly of all weathers a day of dreams and far hopes and clear visions . 
It was a day easily associated with those abstract truths and purities that dissolve in the sunshine or fade out in mocking laughter by the light of the moon . 
The trees and clouds were carved in classical severity the sounds of the countryside had harmonized to a monotone , metallic as a trumpet , breathless as the Grecian urn . 
The day had put Amory in such a contemplative mood that he caused much annoyance to several motorists who were forced to slow up considerably or else run him down . 
Do you want a lift ? asked the apparently artificial growth , glancing from the corner of his eye at the imposing man as if for some habitual , silent corroboration . 
The chauffeur swung open the door , and , climbing in , Amory settled himself in the middle of the back seat . 
He took in his companions curiously . 
The chief characteristic of the big man seemed to be a great confidence in himself set off against a tremendous boredom with everything around him . 
He was excellently and quietly dressed . 
Amory noticed that he was inclined to stare straight at the back of the chauffeur's head as if speculating steadily but hopelessly some baffling hirsute problem . 
The smaller man was remarkable only for his complete submersion in the personality of the other . 
Going far ? asked the smaller man in a pleasant disinterested way . 
Hiking for exercise ? No , responded Amory succinctly , I'm walking because I can't afford to ride . 
Then again Are you looking for work ? Because there's lots of work , he continued rather testily . 
All this talk of lack of work . 
The West is especially short of labor . 
He expressed the West with a sweeping , lateral gesture . 
Have you a trade ? NoAmory had no trade . 
Clerk , eh ? NoAmory was not a clerk . 
Whatever your line is , said the little man , seeming to agree wisely with something Amory had said , now is the time of opportunity and business openings . 
He glanced again toward the big man , as a lawyer grilling a witness glances involuntarily at the jury . 
Amory decided that he must say something and for the life of him could think of only one thing to say . 
Of course I want a great lot of money The little man laughed mirthlessly but conscientiously . 
That's what every one wants nowadays , but they don't want to work for it . 
A very natural , healthy desire . 
Almost all normal people want to be rich without great effortexcept the financiers in problem plays , who want to 'crash their way through . 
Don't you want easy money ? Of course not , said the secretary indignantly . 
But , continued Amory disregarding him , being very poor at present I am contemplating socialism as possibly my forte . 
Both men glanced at him curiously . 
These bomb throwers The little man ceased as words lurched ponderously from the big man's chest . 
If I thought you were a bomb thrower I'd run you over to the Newark jail . 
That's what I think of Socialists . 
What are you , asked the big man , one of these parlor Bolsheviks , one of these idealists ? I must say I fail to see the difference . 
The idealists loaf around and write the stuff that stirs up the poor immigrants . 
Well , said Amory , if being an idealist is both safe and lucrative , I might try it . 
What's your difficulty ? Lost your job ? Not exactly , butwell , call it that . 
What was it ? Writing copy for an advertising agency . 
Lots of money in advertising . 
Oh , I'll admit there's money in it eventually . 
Talent doesn't starve any more . 
Even art gets enough to eat these days . 
Artists draw your magazine covers , write your advertisements , hash out rag time for your theatres . 
By the great commercializing of printing you've found a harmless , polite occupation for every genius who might have carved his own niche . 
But beware the artist who's an intellectual also . 
The artist who doesn't fit the Rousseau , the Tolstoi , the Samuel Butler , the Amory Blaine Who's he ? demanded the little man suspiciously . 
Well , said Amory , he's ahe's an intellectual personage not very well known at present . 
The little man laughed his conscientious laugh , and stopped rather suddenly as Amory's burning eyes turned on him . 
What are you laughing at ? These intellectual people Do you know what it means ? The little man's eyes twitched nervously . 
Why , it usually means It always means brainy and well educated , interrupted Amory . 
It means having an active knowledge of the race's experience . 
Amory decided to be very rude . 
He turned to the big man . 
You object to the fact that capital controls printing ? said the big man , fixing him with his goggles . 
Yesand I object to doing their mental work for them . 
It seemed to me that the root of all the business I saw around me consisted in overworking and underpaying a bunch of dubs who submitted to it . 
Here now , said the big man , you'll have to admit that the laboring man is certainly highly paidfive and six hour daysit's ridiculous . 
You can't buy an honest day's work from a man in the trades unions . 
You've brought it on yourselves , insisted Amory . 
You people never make concessions until they're wrung out of you . 
What people ? Your class the class I belonged to until recently those who by inheritance or industry or brains or dishonesty have become the moneyed class . 
No , I'll admit it hasn't . 
It rather sounds as if it had though . 
In fact , continued Amory , he'd be worse . 
The lower classes are narrower , less pleasant and personally more selfishcertainly more stupid . 
But all that has nothing to do with the question . 
Just exactly what is the question ? Here Amory had to pause to consider exactly what the question was . 
He may be unselfish , kind hearted , even just in his own way , but his first job is to provide and to hold fast . 
His wife shoos him on , from ten thousand a year to twenty thousand a year , on and on , in an enclosed treadmill that hasn't any windows . 
He's done ! Life's got him ! He's no help ! He's a spiritually married man . 
Amory paused and decided that it wasn't such a bad phrase . 
Some men , he continued , escape the grip . 
He's the natural radical ? Yes , said Amory . 
He may vary from the disillusioned critic like old Thornton Hancock , all the way to Trotsky . 
But it appears , said the big man . 
Where ? in the discredited mediums . 
Well , my first point is that through a mixture of conditions of which the family is the first , there are these two sorts of brains . 
One sort takes human nature as it finds it , uses its timidity , its weakness , and its strength for its own ends . 
Opposed is the man who , being spiritually unmarried , continually seeks for new systems that will control or counteract human nature . 
It is not life that's complicated , it's the struggle to guide and control life . 
He is a part of progressthe spiritually married man is not . 
The big man produced three big cigars , and proffered them on his huge palm . 
The little man took one , Amory shook his head and reached for a cigarette . 
Go on talking , said the big man . 
I've been wanting to hear one of you fellows . 
My idea is that we've got to go very much faster . 
He slightly emphasized the last words and the chauffeur unconsciously increased the speed of the car . 
Amory and the big man laughed the little man laughed , too , after a pause . 
Every child , said Amory , should have an equal start . 
If his father can endow him with a good physique and his mother with some common sense in his early education , that should be his heritage . 
He shouldn't be artificially bolstered up with money , sent to these horrible tutoring schools , dragged through college . 
Every boy ought to have an equal start . 
All right , said the big man , his goggles indicating neither approval nor objection . 
Next I'd have a fair trial of government ownership of all industries . 
That's been proven a failure . 
If we had government ownership we'd have the best analytical business minds in the government working for something besides themselves . 
We'd have Mackays instead of Burlesons we'd have Morgans in the Treasury Department we'd have Hills running interstate commerce . 
We'd have the best lawyers in the Senate . 
They wouldn't give their best efforts for nothing . 
McAdoo No , said Amory , shaking his head . 
Money isn't the only stimulus that brings out the best that's in a man , even in America . 
You said a while ago that it was . 
It is , right now . 
But if it were made illegal to have more than a certain amount the best men would all flock for the one other reward which attracts humanityhonor . 
The big man made a sound that was very like boo . 
That's the silliest thing you've said yet . 
No , it isn't silly . 
Kidschild's play ! scoffed his antagonist . 
Not by a darned sightunless we're all children . 
The idea that to make a man work you've got to hold gold in front of his eyes is a growth , not an axiom . 
We've done that for so long that we've forgotten there's any other way . 
We've made a world where that's necessary . 
That competitive instinct only wants a badge . 
If the size of their house is the badge they'll sweat their heads off for that . 
If it's only a blue ribbon , I damn near believe they'll work just as hard . 
They have in other ages . 
I don't agree with you . 
I know it , said Amory nodding sadly . 
It doesn't matter any more though . 
I think these people are going to come and take what they want pretty soon . 
A fierce hiss came from the little man . 
Machine guns ! Ah , but you've taught them their use . 
The big man shook his head . 
In this country there are enough property owners not to permit that sort of thing . 
Amory wished he knew the statistics of property owners and non property owners he decided to change the subject . 
But the big man was aroused . 
When you talk of 'taking things away , you're on dangerous ground . 
How can they get it without taking it ? For years people have been stalled off with promises . 
Socialism may not be progress , but the threat of the red flag is certainly the inspiring force of all reform . 
You've got to be sensational to get attention . 
Russia is your example of a beneficent violence , I suppose ? Quite possibly , admitted Amory . 
Of course , it's overflowing just as the French Revolution did , but I've no doubt that it's really a great experiment and well worth while . 
Don't you believe in moderation ? You won't listen to the moderates , and it's almost too late . 
The truth is that the public has done one of those startling and amazing things that they do about once in a hundred years . 
What is it ? That however the brains and abilities of men may differ , their stomachs are essentially the same . 
The human stomach he began but the big man interrupted rather impatiently . 
I'm letting you talk , you know , he said , but please avoid stomachs . 
I've been feeling mine all day . 
Anyway , I don't agree with one half you've said . 
Government ownership is the basis of your whole argument , and it's invariably a beehive of corruption . 
Men won't work for blue ribbons , that's all rot . 
When he ceased the little man spoke up with a determined nod , as if resolved this time to have his say out . 
There are certain things which are human nature , he asserted with an owl like look , which always have been and always will be , which can't be changed . 
Amory looked from the small man to the big man helplessly . 
Listen to that ! That's what makes me discouraged with progress . 
What this man here just said has been for thousands of years the last refuge of the associated mutton heads of the world . 
It negates the efforts of every scientist , statesman , moralist , reformer , doctor , and philosopher that ever gave his life to humanity's service . 
It's a flat impeachment of all that's worth while in human nature . 
Every person over twenty five years old who makes that statement in cold blood ought to be deprived of the franchise . 
The little man leaned back against the seat , his face purple with rage . 
Amory continued , addressing his remarks to the big man . 
These quarter educated , stale minded men such as your friend here , who think they think , every question that comes up , you'll find his type in the usual ghastly muddle . 
One minute it's 'the brutality and inhumanity of these Prussians'the next it's 'we ought to exterminate the whole German people . 
They always believe that 'things are in a bad way now , but they 'haven't any faith in these idealists . 
One minute they call Wilson 'just a dreamer , not practical'a year later they rail at him for making his dreams realities . 
They haven't clear logical ideas on one single subject except a sturdy , stolid opposition to all change . 
Thatis the great middle class ! The big man with a broad grin on his face leaned over and smiled at the little man . 
But Amory was not through . 
The theory that people are fit to govern themselves rests on this man . 
If he can be educated to think clearly , concisely , and logically , freed of his habit of taking refuge in platitudes and prejudices and sentimentalisms , then I'm a militant Socialist . 
If he can't , then I don't think it matters much what happens to man or his systems , now or hereafter . 
I am both interested and amused , said the big man . 
Which may only mean that I have neither been corrupted nor made timid by contemporary experience . 
I possess the most valuable experience , the experience of the race , for in spite of going to college I've managed to pick up a good education . 
It's not all rubbish , cried Amory passionately . 
This is the first time in my life I've argued Socialism . 
It's the only panacea I know . 
My whole generation is restless . 
Even if I had no talents I'd not be content to work ten years , condemned either to celibacy or a furtive indulgence , to give some man's son an automobile . 
But , if you're not sure That doesn't matter , exclaimed Amory . 
My position couldn't be worse . 
A social revolution might land me on top . 
It seems to me I've been a fish out of water in too many outworn systems . 
I'm in love with change and I've killed my conscience So you'll go along crying that we must go faster . 
That , at least , is true , Amory insisted . 
Reform won't catch up to the needs of civilization unless it's made to . 
A laissez faire policy is like spoiling a child by saying he'll turn out all right in the end . 
He will if he's made to . 
But you don't believe all this Socialist patter you talk . 
Until I talked to you I hadn't thought seriously about it . 
I wasn't sure of half of what I said . 
You puzzle me , said the big man , but you're all alike . 
They say Bernard Shaw , in spite of his doctrines , is the most exacting of all dramatists about his royalties . 
Well , said Amory , I simply state that I'm a product of a versatile mind in a restless generationwith every reason to throw my mind and pen in with the radicals . 
I've thought I was right about life at various times , but faith is difficult . 
If living isn't a seeking for the grail it may be a damned amusing game . 
For a minute neither spoke and then the big man asked What was your university ? Princeton . 
The big man became suddenly interested the expression of his goggles altered slightly . 
I sent my son to Princeton . 
Did you ? Perhaps you knew him . 
His name was Jesse Ferrenby . 
He was killed last year in France . 
I knew him very well . 
In fact , he was one of my particular friends . 
He wasaquite a fine boy . 
Amory began to perceive a resemblance between the father and the dead son and he told himself that there had been all along a sense of familiarity . 
Jesse Ferrenby , the man who in college had borne off the crown that he had aspired to . 
It was all so far away . 
Won't you come in for lunch ? Amory shook his head . 
Thank you , Mr. Ferrenby , but I've got to get on . 
The big man held out his hand . 
Amory saw that the fact that he had known Jesse more than outweighed any disfavor he had created by his opinions . 
What ghosts were people with which to work ! Even the little man insisted on shaking hands . 
Good by ! shouted Mr. Ferrenby , as the car turned the corner and started up the drive . 
Good luck to you and bad luck to your theories . 
Same to you , sir , cried Amory , smiling and waving his hand . 
OUT OF THE FIRE , OUT OF THE LITTLE ROOM Eight hours from Princeton Amory sat down by the Jersey roadside and looked at the frost bitten country . 
Frost and the promise of winter thrilled him now , made him think of a wild battle between St . 
I am selfish , he thought . 
This is not a quality that will change when I 'see human suffering' or 'lose my parents' or 'help others . 
This selfishness is not only part of me . 
It is the most living part . 
It is by somehow transcending rather than by avoiding that selfishness that I can bring poise and balance into my life . 
There is no virtue of unselfishness that I cannot use . 
The problem of evil had solidified for Amory into the problem of sex . 
He was beginning to identify evil with the strong phallic worship in Brooke and the early Wells . 
Amory knew that every time he had reached toward it longingly it had leered out at him with the grotesque face of evil . 
Beauty of great art , beauty of all joy , most of all the beauty of women . 
After all , it had too many associations with license and indulgence . 
Weak things were often beautiful , weak things were never good . 
In a sense this gradual renunciation of beauty was the second step after his disillusion had been made complete . 
He felt that he was leaving behind him his chance of being a certain type of artist . 
It seemed so much more important to be a certain sort of man . 
His mind turned a corner suddenly and he found himself thinking of the Catholic Church . 
The idea was strong in him that there was a certain intrinsic lack in those to whom orthodox religion was necessary , and religion to Amory meant the Church of Rome . 
Quite conceivably it was an empty ritual but it was seemingly the only assimilative , traditionary bulwark against the decay of morals . 
Until the great mobs could be educated into a moral sense some one must cry Thou shalt not ! Yet any acceptance was , for the present , impossible . 
He wanted time and the absence of ulterior pressure . 
He wanted to keep the tree without ornaments , realize fully the direction and momentum of this new start . 
The afternoon waned from the purging good of three o'clock to the golden beauty of four . 
Afterward he walked through the dull ache of a setting sun when even the clouds seemed bleeding and at twilight he came to a graveyard . 
There was a dusky , dreamy smell of flowers and the ghost of a new moon in the sky and shadows everywhere . 
Amory wanted to feel William Dayfield , . 
He wondered that graves ever made people consider life in vain . 
Somehow he could find nothing hopeless in having lived . 
All the broken columns and clasped hands and doves and angels meant romances . 
Long after midnight the towers and spires of Princeton were visible , with here and there a late burning lightand suddenly out of the clear darkness the sound of bells . 
Butoh , Rosalind ! Rosalind ! . 
It's all a poor substitute at best , he said sadly . 
And he could not tell why the struggle was worth while , why he had determined to use to the utmost himself and his heritage from the personalities he had passed . 
He stretched out his arms to the crystalline , radiant sky . 
I know myself , he cried , but that is all . 
